Steady-state pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in methadone maintenance patients: comparison of those who do and do not experience withdrawal and concentration-effect relationships.	To determine plasma racemic methadone concentration-effect relationships for subjective and objective responses and whether pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic factors influence withdrawal severity.
Plasma concentrations of buprenorphine 24 to 72 hours after dosing.	This study evaluated plasma buprenorphine concentrations 24-72 h following sublingual administration of a dose of buprenorphine solution, ranging from 16 mg/70 kg to 44 mg/70 kg, administered on a daily or thrice-weekly schedule. Additionally, this study evaluated the effects of different thrice-weekly buprenorphine dose schedules on opiate use and withdrawal symptoms.
Platelet monoamine oxidase, smoking cessation, and tobacco withdrawal symptoms.	Previous studies have found that constituents in tobacco inhibit both forms of the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO-A and MAO-B). This enzyme is important in the breakdown of the amine neurotransmitters, including dopamine, which is thought to mediate the reinforcing effects of nicotine and contribute to tobacco dependence. To further examine the relationship between cigarette smoking, smoking cessation and MAO, we measured platelet MAO-B activity in 16 smokers before and after being switched to smoking denicotinized cigarettes; in a subset of six subjects who subsequently quit-smoking, MAO-B activity was also measured at 1 and 4 weeks following cessation. Smoking cessation treatment was provided in an open-label format, and included nicotine skin patch treatment in conjunction with oral mecamylamine (a nicotinic antagonist) and neostigmine (a peripherally acting acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, administered to counteract constipation experienced from mecamylamine). Results showed that smoking behavior, indexed by expired air carbon monoxide levels, was negatively correlated with platelet MAO-B activity prior to smoking cessation. Moreover, MAO-B activity significantly increased by approximately 100% at 4 weeks after quitting smoking. However, little or no recovery occurred within the first week of abstinence, suggesting that the constituents in tobacco responsible for MAO inhibition may have half-lives of several days. Thus, if relapse to smoking is due in part to withdrawal from the MAO-inhibiting effects of tobacco, this effect likely occurs more than 1 week after quitting. Additionally, low baseline MAO-B activity significantly predicted the intensity of withdrawal symptoms reported upon switching to the denicotinized cigarettes as well as after smoking cessation. These results support the view that MAO inhibition from non-nicotine constituents in cigarette smoke is relevant to tobacco dependence and that continued investigation of the potential use of MAO inhibitors in smoking cessation treatment is warranted.
Plasma levels of beta-endorphin, adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol during early and late alcohol withdrawal.	Endogenous opioid peptides are thought to participate in the phenomena of alcohol tolerance and withdrawal. Since in the pituitary gland, beta-endorphin (beta-EP) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) are produced from the same precursor molecule, pro-opiomelanocortin, it may be expected that alterations in plasma ACTH and cortisol levels should parallel changes in plasma beta-EP levels during alcohol withdrawal. The aim of the present study was to investigate the alterations of beta-EP, ACTH and cortisol secretion patterns in alcohol-dependent patients with heavy intake in the early withdrawal period and, if any, whether these changes remained stable on long-term withdrawal. Twenty-two hospitalized male patients (mean age +/- SD: 43.45 +/- 9.22 years, mean daily amount of alcohol +/- SD: 421.59 +/- 116.57 g) who were diagnosed to have alcohol withdrawal and 20 age-matched healthy men (mean age +/- SD: 38.35 +/- 7.63 years) were included in the study. Morning and night levels of plasma beta-EP, ACTH and cortisol were measured in the patients during the early (first week) and late (fourth week) withdrawal periods following alcohol cessation, and only once in the control subjects. It was found that both morning beta-EP and morning ACTH levels were reduced during both early and late withdrawals, whereas cortisol levels were increased in early withdrawal and normalized towards the late withdrawal period. The finding that beta-EP deficiency continued despite withdrawal symptoms subsiding in patients suggests that their beta-EP deficiency is independent of the withdrawal syndrome and that reduced beta-EP activity may be a trait contributing to alcohol craving.
The effects of chronic ethanol consumption and ethanol withdrawal on serum cholinesterase activity in rats.	The effect of chronic ethanol consumption and ethanol withdrawal on serum cholinesterase (ChE) activity was investigated in female Wistar rats.
Leptin levels of alcohol abstainers and detoxification patients are not different.	Leptin is a cytokine-type peptide hormone, recently implicated as a putative state marker of alcohol use and in craving. Our goal was to evaluate the potential of leptin as a state and trait marker and to rule out the role of current alcohol intoxication on leptin levels.
Monitoring of creatinine kinase during weaning of intrathecal baclofen and with symptoms of early withdrawal.	Abrupt withdrawal from intrathecal baclofen (ITB) can result in severe rebound spasticity, confusion, and seizures. It has been recently recognized that abrupt withdrawal from ITB may, in rare cases, result in life-threatening rhabdomyolysis, hyperthermia, autonomic disturbances, and sepsis-like presentations. Early recognition of the most severe forms of the withdrawal syndrome is essential for effective intervention. The common and unique features in such individuals seem to be severe increased spasticity and marked elevation in creatinine kinase levels. This case of an individual with T4 paraplegia with recurrent episodes of ITB withdrawal associated with severe spasticity and elevated creatinine kinase levels who required rapid weaning of high-dose ITB to allow removal of an infected pump and catheter illustrates the value of monitoring creatinine kinase levels in evaluation of suspected ITB withdrawal and during rapid weaning of ITB when necessary.
Detoxification for triazolam physical dependence.	The clinical characteristics of a series of patients who developed physical dependence to triazolam has not previously been described. We report five cases of high-dose triazolam abuse in which the daily dosage ranged from 5 to 15 mg (100-300 mg diazepam equivalent) and the duration of use ranged from 3 months to 5 years. Physical dependence usually occurs in the context of a history of alcohol or other drug abuse, a history of panic attacks or anxiety disorder, substitution of triazolam for a longer-acting benzodiazepine, or inappropriate use of triazolam as an anxiolytic agent given as multiple daily doses. A rational approach to the pharmacotherapy of triazolam withdrawal is described. Treatment to replace the triazolam with a long half-life CNS depressant and strategies for this pharmacologic therapy are discussed. The abuse liability of triazolam may be no greater and is most likely less than that of some other benzodiazepines.
Impaired hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system is related to severity of benzodiazepine withdrawal in patients with depression.	A concatenation of data indicates that the pathogenesis of depression is related to an increased production and secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Benzodiazepines profoundly suppress the basal and stress-related activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system and discontinuation of these drugs results in rebound activation. We therefore investigated whether the extent of HPA system dysregulation is related to the severity of benzodiazepine withdrawal in patients with depression. We performed the combined dexamethasone/CRH test before benzodiazepine discontinuation (taper-off max. 5 mg diazepam-equivalents/week) in 14 depressed patients (13 f, 1 m, mean age 54.6 +/- 14.6) who responded to the antidepressant treatment. The severity of withdrawal symptoms was measured using the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment-Benzodiazepines (CIWA-B) questionnaire. The depressive psychopathology was monitored using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale and Beck Depression Inventory. Patients with more severe benzodiazepine withdrawal (CIWA-B-increase > 14 pts; n = 7) showed a significant higher cortisol and ACTH response in the dexamethasone/CRH test preceding the discontinuation of benzodiazepines than patients displaying less severe withdrawal symptoms (CIWA-B-increase <14 pts.; n = 7) (ANCOVA, p < 0.05). Both groups did not differ in the pre-taper psychopathology ratings and their basal neuroendocrine activity. In view of the GABAergic inhibition of HPA system activity and the anxiogenic effect of CRH, benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms may be partly due to a disinhibition of the HPA system during discontinuation of benzodiazepines.
Increased serum nitrite/nitrate (NOx) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels during alcohol withdrawal in alcoholic patients.	Serum nitrite/nitrate (NOx) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels of 40 male alcoholic patients and 14 healthy male controls were investigated. Severity of alcohol withdrawal in alcoholic patients was evaluated by using the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol (CIWA-Ar) scale just before taking the blood samples. NOx levels in serum samples were determined based on the reduction of nitrate to nitrite by vanadium chloride. MDA levels were also determined spectrophotometrically at 540 nm. The total CIWA-Ar score of alcohol-withdrawn patients was found to be 17.7. NOx and MDA levels were significantly increased in alcoholics during alcohol withdrawal as compared to control subjects. In conclusion, we observed increased serum NOx levels and lipid peroxidation during alcohol withdrawal in alcoholic patients.
Effects of clonidine on pituitary-adrenocortical axis in morphine-tolerant rats and after naloxone-induced withdrawal.	The effects of systemically administered clonidine on pituitary-adrenocortical axis in morphine-tolerant rats and after naloxone-induced withdrawal were examined. In naive animals, clonidine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg s.c.) significantly increased plasma beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (beta-END-LI) and cortisol levels. This effect was significantly reduced in morphine-tolerant animals. Naloxone treatment induced an increase of plasma beta-END-LI and cortisol levels in morphine-tolerant animals. The increase in cortisol level after withdrawal was significantly reduced by clonidine. These results are consistent with an interaction between alpha 2-adrenoceptors and opioid systems in the control of pituitary-adrenocortical axis during morphine tolerance and withdrawal.
Erythrocyte thiamine (Th) esters: a major factor of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome or a candidate marker for alcoholism itself?	Thiamine (Th) deficiency is a major problem in alcoholics. In this study, the relationship of alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) to Th and its esters, as well as the diagnostic power of Th and its esters were investigated.
Supersensitivity to naloxone following acute morphine pretreatment in humans: behavioral, hormonal and physiological effects.	The effects of naloxone (10 mg/70 kg) given 6 h following acute exposure to morphine (4, 8, 16 mg/70 kg) were assessed in 5 opiate-abusing volunteers who were not physically dependent upon entering the study. Naloxone increased cortisol plasma levels more following morphine than placebo pretreatment. Naloxone reversed the effects of morphine on pupil diameter and oral temperature and decreased skin temperature as a function of morphine pretreatment. Subjects' ability to detect the effects of naloxone, their scores on an opiate-withdrawal questionnaire, and their visual-analog ratings of 'bad effects', 'chills', 'confused' and 'restlessness' increased when naloxone followed pretreatment with 8 and 16 mg, but not 4 mg, of morphine. Performance on the Digit Symbol Substitution Test was not discernibly affected under any of the dose conditions. Overall, results from the present study provide further evidence in humans that the administration of naloxone shortly following acute morphine pretreatment increases naloxone sensitivity, produces signs and symptoms typical of opiate withdrawal and that these effects are dependent on the dose of morphine administered.
Antidepressant efficacy and hormonal effects of Sudarshana Kriya Yoga (SKY) in alcohol dependent individuals.	Sudarshana Kriya Yoga (SKY) has demonstrable antidepressant effects. SKY was tested for this effect in inpatients of alcohol dependence.
Effects of atorvastatin and atorvastatin withdrawal on soluble CD40L and adipocytokines in patients with hypercholesterolaemia.	Beyond lipid lowering, statins have pleiotropic effects with favourable benefits against atherogenesis. Withdrawal of statin therapy has been demonstrated to abrogate vascular protective activity and even increase the incidence of thrombotic vascular events. The purpose of this study is to investigate the serial changes of soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) and two adipocytokines, adiponectin and resistin, after short-term atorvastatin therapy and withdrawal in patients with hypercholesterolaemia.
Stereoselective quantification of methadone and a d(6)-labeled isotopomer using high performance liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass-spectrometry: application to a pharmacokinetic study in a methadone maintained subject.	There is evidence that the apparent oral clearance of rac-methadone is induced during the early phase of methadone maintenance treatment. However, it is not known if this is due to changes in bioavailability or if this phenomenon is stereoselective. This knowledge can be obtained by administering a dose of stable-labeled methadone at selected times during ongoing treatment. Therefore, the authors developed a stereoselective high performance liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass-spectrometry assay for the quantification of the enantiomers of methadone and a d(6)-labeled isotopomer. The compounds were quantified in a single assay after liquid-liquid extraction and stereoselective high performance liquid chromatograph with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization-mass spectrometry detection. The following ions were monitored: m/z 310.15 for unlabeled methadone; m/z 316.15 for methadone-d(6); and m/z 313.15 for the methadone-d(3) (internal standard). Calibration curves ranged from 0.5 to 75 ng/mL for each compound. Extraction recovery was approximately 80% for all analytes, without evidence of differences between the unlabeled and stable-labeled compounds or concentration dependency. Minor ion promotion was observed (<15%) but this was identical for all analytes including the d(3)-labeled internal standard, with peak area ratios in extracted samples identical to control injections. The isotopomers did not alter each others' ionisation, even at 10:1 concentration ratios, and 10-fold diluted samples were within 10% of the nominal concentration. Assay performance was acceptable, with interassay and intra-assay bias and precision <10% for all compounds, including the upper and lower limits of quantitation. In conclusion, the assay was successfully applied to quantify the concentration of the methadone enantiomers of both orally administered unlabeled methadone and an intravenous 5 mg dose of methadone-d(6) in a patient receiving chronic oral methadone maintenance therapy.
Controlled study on the combined effect of alcohol and tobacco smoking on testosterone in alcohol-dependent men.	The present study examined the association between pre-treatment drinking and smoking parameters and plasma testosterone levels before and after alcohol withdrawal.
Menstrual cycle in women addicted to alcohol during the first week following drinking cessation--changes of sex hormones levels in relation to selected clinical features.	To assess the prevalence of hormonal dysfunction in women addicted to alcohol during first week following drinking cessation; to determine whether fluctuations of hormone levels in follicular, ovulation and luteal phases in addicted women are equal to those normally found in healthy women; to determine the association between hormonal imbalances with selected clinical features.
Hyponatremia-induced seizure during carbamazepine treatment.	We report the case of a 54-year-old woman who was admitted for benzodiazepine withdrawal. After 6 weeks of carbamazepine treatment (600, then 200 mg) the patient suddenly suffered from a grand mal seizure. Laboratory findings revealed a clinical significant hyponatremia of Na 125 mmol/l (baseline: 143 mmol/l). CCT and ECG were normal. To our knowledge, this is the first description of a seizure related to hyponatremia in an adult carbamazepine-treated patient.
A rapid increase in lipoprotein (a) levels after ethanol withdrawal in alcoholic men.	Plasma concentrations of lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) were studied in 11 male alcoholics at the end of a drinking period and monitored during subsequent abstinence. Lp(a) levels showed a daily increase for four consecutive days after the beginning of abstinence, the values for the third and the fourth day being significantly higher than those of the first day (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively). The changes in Lp(a) showed no association with the changes in low density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels. In one alcoholic subject with a heterozygous form of familial hypercholesterolemia who was monitored for 11 days, the Lp(a) levels rose up to the fourth day and remained at a high level thereafter. These results suggest that ethanol ingestion may be associated with a lowering of Lp(a) levels, which may contribute to the delayed progression of atherosclerosis observed in alcohol drinkers. Ethanol intake may be added to the short list of factors that affect the quite stable, genetically determined Lp(a) concentrations in the plasma.
Clinical phenomenology and neurobiology of cocaine abstinence: a prospective inpatient study.	This study was undertaken to document symptoms and changes in dopaminergic function emerging after abrupt cessation of cocaine use.
Prolactin serum levels during alcohol withdrawal are associated with the severity of alcohol dependence and withdrawal symptoms.	Prolactin serum levels have been described to be elevated during alcohol withdrawal in alcohol-dependent patients and normalize during abstinence. Alterations in prolactin levels may reflect disturbances of dopaminergic neurotransmission which is of crucial importance for alcohol-seeking behavior.
Plasma cannabinoid concentrations during dronabinol pharmacotherapy for cannabis dependence.	Recently, high-dose oral synthetic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) was shown to alleviate cannabis withdrawal symptoms. The present data describe cannabinoid pharmacokinetics in chronic, daily cannabis smokers who received high-dose oral THC pharmacotherapy and later a smoked cannabis challenge.
Affective and neuroendocrine effects of withdrawal from chronic, long-acting opiate administration.	Although the long-acting opiate methadone is commonly used to treat drug addiction, relatively little is known about the effects of withdrawal from this drug in preclinical models. The current study examined affective, neuroendocrine, and somatic signs of withdrawal from the longer-acting methadone derivative l-alpha-acetylmethydol (LAAM) in rats. Anxiety-like behavior during both spontaneous and antagonist-precipitated withdrawal was measured by potentiation of the startle reflex. Withdrawal elevated corticosterone and somatic signs and blunted circadian variations in baseline startle responding. In addition, fear to an explicit, Pavlovian conditioned stimulus (fear-potentiated startle) was enhanced. These data suggest that anxiety-like behavior as measured using potentiated startle responding does not emerge spontaneously during withdrawal from chronic opiate exposure - in contrast to withdrawal from acute drug exposure - but rather is manifested as exaggerated fear in response to explicit threat cues. 
The impact of atrial natriuretic peptide on anxiety, stress and craving in patients with alcohol dependence.	Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is well known to modulate fluid and electrolyte homeostasis but also to counter-regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity. Correspondingly, recent studies suggest an important role of ANP in the neurobiology of anxiety. Preclinical and clinical data now provide evidence for an involvement of ANP in the pathophysiology of addictive behavior. The present study aims to elucidate the effects of ANP on alcohol-dependent patients' anxiety, perceived stress and craving during alcohol withdrawal.
Neurotrophic factors in women with crack cocaine dependence during early abstinence: the role of early life stress.	Neurotrophic factors have been investigated in the pathophysiology of alcohol and drug dependence and have been related to early life stress driving developmental programming of neuroendocrine systems.
Tryptophan metabolism in post-withdrawal alcohol-dependent patients.	The aim of the study was to investigate the parameters of tryptophan and phenylalanine metabolism and their associations to immune system activation and to behavioural symptoms during medium-term withdrawal (4-12 weeks of abstinence) in alcohol-dependent patients.
RBC and plasma choline in neuroleptic-treated schizophrenic patients.	We measured red blood cell (RBC) choline and plasma choline concentrations in 27 chronic schizophrenic inpatients and 23 normal controls. Both blood choline measures had a significant test-retest reliability in patients whose neuroleptic status remained unchanged over 1 month. RBC choline concentration was significantly lower in patients medicated with neuroleptics and cogentin. Patients with a low RBC choline and a low RBC/plasma choline ratio were on significantly higher doses of medication and had higher scores on the hostility/suspiciousness subscale of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. RBC choline increased when neuroleptics were discontinued. Blood choline measures were also compared among medication-free schizophrenic patients, inpatients with other diagnoses, and normal controls. No significant differences were seen among these groups for any choline measure, although the schizophrenic patients showed greater variability. Medication-free schizophrenic patients with such clinical factors as tardive dyskinesia and abnormalities on computed tomography contributed to this variability. Age was positively correlated with plasma choline.
A retrospective and explorative study of hypokalemia in psychiatric disorders: a beta 2-receptor related phenomenon.	Since the serum potassium level is under beta 2-adrenergic influence, we studied serum potassium values on admission in psychiatric patients. Data are reported on 683 patients from nine major diagnostic groups. Among these nine groups significant differences were found concerning the mean serum potassium level and incidence of hypokalemia. Significant differences existed between the alcohol withdrawal and attempted suicide groups compared to the dysthymic, bipolar manic, schizophrenic and nonschizophrenic psychosis groups. Like alcohol withdrawal, attempted suicide is assumed to be a hyper-adrenergic state. Although the relative contribution of factors like nutritional state, aldosterone, insulin, and beta 2-receptor density or sensitivity is unclear, the catecholamine-potassium relationship deserves further study.
Participation of the peptidergic and endogenous opiate systems in the pathogenesis of early manifestations of the alcohol abstinence syndrome]	TRH and naloxone influence on the clinical hormonal manifestations of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) was studied. The results obtained were suggestive of the association of the pathogenesis of symptoms like frustration, skin hyperemia, tachycardia, and raised BP with function of the peptidergic system. It should be noted that symptoms like depression, sleep disturbances and headaches happened to be more sensitive to TRH while sweating is more sensitive to naloxone. A positive therapeutic effect of naloxone in the early period of AWS was likely to result from lowered function of the opiate system. The data obtained led to a preliminary conclusion of a close interrelationship and involvement of the hormonal, peptidergic and opiate systems in AWS pathogenesis, this being an important factor for the understanding of alcohol-induced abnormalities and for the choice of pathogenetically founded therapeutic methods.
The influence of chlormethiazole on the neuro-endocrine system in chronic alcoholics.	The neuro-endocrine system is affected by chronic ethanol ingestion. Chlormethiazole is effective in the treatment of the ethanol withdrawal syndrome because of its tolerability, lack of hepatotoxicity, short plasma half-life, lack of any long-acting intermediate metabolites and lack of adverse effects on the neuro-endocrine system in alcoholics.
Relationship between the cyclic nucleotide content of blood plasma and the clinical course of chronic alcoholism]	In patients with chronic alcoholism out of abstinence the plasma cAMP concentration was shown to decrease and that of cGMP to increase, cAMP/cGMP ratio was 1.8 in contrast to control value of 4.2. During abstinence the plasma cAMP level was higher and cAMP/cGMP ratio in patients with abstinence was 3.1. In patients with acute hallucinosis the plasma cAMP level was lower but during delirium, on the contrary, as well as the plasma cGMP level, higher than in control. The treatment of alcoholic patients relieved clinical symptoms of abstinence but the plasma cyclic nucleotide levels didn't change significantly. In most patients after cessation of delirium the plasma cAMP level was significantly lower as compared with pretreatment level.
Effect of thyroliberin on the clinical manifestations of the alcoholic abstinence syndrome]	In a double blind diagnostic study of the reserve thyrotropic function of the hypophysis, the authors have investigated the effect of the thyrotropic releasing hormone (TRH) versus placebo on the clinical manifestations of the alcohol abstinence syndrome in 60 patients with stage 2 chronic alcoholism. TRH and placebo-reactive and resistant symptoms of abstinence have been identified. TRH has a positive effect on some psychopathological and somatovegetative manifestations of alcohol abstinence. It is suggested that the use of TRH, in addition to its therapeutic and diagnostic value, will help to better study-at the clinical level-the role of the peptidergic system in the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced disorders.
Alprazolam dependency: use of clonazepam for withdrawal.	Ten alprazolam-dependent patients were studied with clinical and biologic variables after equal doses of clonazepam were substituted for alprazolam. Withdrawal was accomplished over a seven-day period. Anxiety and plasma cortisol levels were measured and found not to be significantly different between the withdrawal period and the postwithdrawal medication-free period.
Apomorphine-induced hypothermia increases during ethanol withdrawal.	Changes in several measures of dopamine function have been observed following acute or chronic ethanol exposure. The present study examined the effects of chronic ethanol exposure on the hypothermia following acute administration of the dopamine agonist apomorphine. Animals withdrawn from chronic ethanol exposure showed a significantly greater decrease in body temperature following apomorphine than did ethanol-naive controls, suggesting an increase in sensitivity to dopaminergic stimulation during ethanol withdrawal.
Endogenous blood ethanol in alcoholic patients and healthy subjects with and without a family history of alcoholism]	Levels of endogenous ethanol were studied in healthy males, 12-13-year-old boys (sons of alcoholics and normal fathers) and alcoholic patients (after discontinuation of all drugs). The results showed no significant differences between the groups. On the other hand endogenous ethanol concentrations were higher than normal in oligophrenic boys irrespective of whether their fathers were alcoholics or healthy subjects. In the abstinence period endogenic ethanol concentrations were the minimal in patients with delirium tremens and a severe abstinence syndrome, the dynamics of this parameter in the process of treatment being dependent on the severity of the abstinence syndrome and on the nature of treatment.
Urinary excretion of 2, 3-dinor-6-keto prostaglandin F1 alpha and platelet thromboxane formation during ethanol withdrawal in alcoholics.	The excretion of 2,3-dinor-6-keto prostaglandin F1 alpha, a major urinary metabolite of prostacyclin, and the formation of thromboxane B2, a stable metabolite of thromboxane A2, by platelets stimulated by adenosine diphosphate, were studied in alcoholics, who had been admitted for detoxification. Once prolonged heavy drinking had stopped, platelet count and thromboxane formation, calculated either per 10(7) platelets or per litre of blood, significantly increased (p less than 0.05), while the skin bleeding time and urinary excretion of the metabolite of prostacyclin decreased (p less than 0.05). The balance between prostacyclin and thromboxane therefore seemed to favour the excretion of prostacyclin while it shifted to favour thromboxane formation about a week later.
Calcitonin and prolactin serum levels in heroin addicts: study on a methadone treated group.	Serum calcitonin (CT) and prolactin (PRL) levels were determined in 21 heroin addicts in hospital treatment with methadone. After withdrawal of heroin the values of CT 112.4 +/- 62.9 pg/ml, and PRL 19.1 +/- 10.1 ng/ml were both significantly higher (P less than 0.001) than in normal controls (62.2 +/- 43.8 pg/ml and 9.1 +/- 3.5 ng/ml, respectively). After withdrawal of methadone, i.e. 12 +/- 3.7 days after heroin withdrawal, CT values were 76.6 +/- 32.7 ng/ml (a significant level of P less than 0.02 towards initial values). No correlation was noted between CT and PRL values.
Serum prolactin correlates with depressed mood during alcohol withdrawal.	Alterations in central dopamine function have been identified in depression and in alcohol withdrawal. Attempts to determine the magnitude and direction of the central dopamine alteration in alcohol withdrawal have produced conflicting results. In this study serum prolactin (PRL) was used as an indicator of central dopamine activity since dopamine is the most important factor in the control of prolactin secretion from the pituitary. Increased serum PRL levels were found during alcohol withdrawal and they correlated significantly with high scores on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). No significant correlations were identified with The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the 'Mini-Mental State' of Folstein (MMS), The Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) or The Modified Gross Alcohol Withdrawal Selective Severity Assessment Scale (GAWSSA). The authors concluded that the transient depressive symptomatology typically found in detoxifying alcoholic patients may be, in part, the result of a central hypodopaminergic state.
Elevation of beta-adrenergic receptor density in human lymphocytes after propranolol administration.	Abrupt withdrawal after the chronic administration of propranolol has resulted in clinical syndromes that suggest adrenergic hypersensitivity. The effect of propranolol administration and withdrawal on beta-adrenergic receptors was studied in human lymphocyte membranes. Receptor density was quantitated by direct binding assays with the radioligand [125I]iodohydroxybenzylpindolol. Administration of propranolol (160 mg/d) for 8 d resulted in trough plasma levels of approximately 35 ng/ml. By day 5 of propranolol administration the density of beta-adrenergic receptors had increased 43 +/- 4% (P less than 0.01) above pretreatment levels. Abrupt withdrawal of propranolol was followed by the disappearance of propranolol from the plasma within 24 h. The density of beta-adrenergic receptors did not return to pretreatment level for several days. Physiologic supersensitivity of beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated responses was suggested by the appearance of significant increases in the orthostatic change in heart rate (P less than 0.05) and the orthostatic change in the heart rate-systolic blood pressure product (P less than 0.01) during the first 48 h after propranolol withdrawal. These data show that propranolol administration leads to an increase in the density of beta-adrenergic receptors in human tissue. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that some of the untoward effects observed after abrupt discontinuation of propranolol are caused by beta-receptor-mediated adrenergic hypersensitivity.
Neuroleptic plasma levels and tardive dyskinesia: a possible link?	Tardive dyskinesia is known to appear or worsen with the reduction or discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment. The onset of tardive dyskinesia in chronically medicated schizophrenic patients may be related to a gradual decline in neuroleptic plasma concentrations after years of treatment, probably due to increased metabolism of the drug as well as other factors in chronic neuroleptic treatment that may result in lowering of plasma concentrations. Dopamine receptor hypersensitivity could gradually develop and increase, and dyskinetic symptoms eventually appear clinically, as if the dose had been reduced. The symptoms are usually suppressed by increasing the neuroleptic dose which would result in higher plasma drug concentrations. Supportive evidence for this hypothesis is presented and discussed.
Propranolol withdrawal and thyroid hormones in patients with essential hypertension.	The effect of abrupt withdrawal of propranolol on serum concentrations of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) was investigated in 5 patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension. The patients had been treated from 2 to 18 mo before the study was begun. Doses varied from 160 to 480 mg propranolol daily. Four of the patients studied developed tachycardia, sweating, or tremor within 2 to 6 days after withdrawal of propranolol. In 1 patient reversible ischemic ECG changes were recorded. The serum concentrations of free T3 increased in the 4 patients suffering from withdrawal symptoms. The mean increase on the day the symptoms started was 51% (range, 22 to 74, 2 p = 0.01). This increase in serum-free T3 correlated positively with the serum propranolol concentration on the last day propranolol was given (r = 0.91, 2 p = 0.03). In the one patient, who did not develop withdrawal symptoms, the serum concentration of propranolol was very low, and the free T3 level remained unchanged. No significant changes in serum concentrations of free T4 or total thyroid hormones were found in any of the patients. We suggest that the propranolol withdrawal symptoms are, at least partially, caused by an increase in the thyroid hormone, T3.
Changes in plasma amino acid patterns in chronic alcoholic patients during ethanol withdrawal syndrome: their clinical implications.	Changes or imbalances in plasma amino acid patterns during withdrawal from ethanol were recorded in six randomly selected male chronic alcoholic patients (age range 23-47 years). Duration of drinking ranged from 4-15 years and their average daily amount of ethanol intake was more than 100G. Plasma amino acids (taurine, threonine, serine, glutamate, glutamine, proline, glycine, alanine, cysteine, valine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, tyrosine, phenylalanine, histidine, tryptophan, ornithine, lysine and arginine) were estimated by autoanalyzer in all patients on admission before starting conventional detoxification therapy for ethanol withdrawal syndrome, and during therapy on day 3 and day 6. On admission, there was a statistically significant rise in the plasma levels of almost all aminoacids, particularly glutamate, glutamine, phenylalanine, proline, glycine, methionine, cysteine, lysine, tyrosine, valine, isoleucine, leucine, serine, threonine, alanine and arginine (in comparison to those of normal controls) in five out of six patients. During the following six days of treatment and total abstinence, the pattern of plasma aminoacid levels did not change significantly despite considerable clinical improvement. Plasma tryptophan levels were undetectable in all patients on admission, day 3 and also on day 6 except in one patient with lesser amount and shorter duration of drinking, the levels just returned to within normal range only on day 6. Plasma levels of histidine and taurine were found to be slightly lower than normal.
Elevation of erythrocyte glycine levels during lithium treatment of affective disorders.	An elevation of erythrocyte (RBC) glycine was observed in a group of patients with bipolar affective disorder who were being treated with lithium (Li) carbonate. A maximal increase of 90% or more was generally attained after about 100 days of Li intake and was maintained for 2 years or longer. After 3 or more years of Li therapy, the RBC glycine had often returned to the normal range. Abrupt withdrawal of Li in such a case produced an immediate, dramatic, and paradoxical increase in RBC glycine which lasted for 100 days. Plasma glycine was not affected by Li.
Integrity of blood-brain barrier during ethanol intoxication and withdrawal in the rat: normal glucose transfer and permeability to Na+ and Cl-.	The unidirectional brain uptake of 14-C-D-glucose, 24Na+ and 36Cl- was measured by the Oldendorf tissue uptake method in order to test whether severe ethanol intoxication or withdrawal affected the glucose transfer across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) or the integrity of the BBB to small ions. The Oldendorf technique rests upon the assumption that water is freely diffusible across the BBB, but in the present study a correction was applied, which takes into account the fact that the water extraction actually depends upon the different cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the groups. The 24Na+ and 36Cl- extraction values were about 1% as reported in other studies and this suggests that there was no major effect on the BBB reaction to small ions during severe ethanol intoxication or during withdrawal. The permeability surface area product did not deviate significantly from control values in any group and thus there was no indication that glucose transfer across the BBB differed during ethanol intoxication or withdrawal.
Intravenous infusion of beta-endorphin increases serum prolactin, but not growth hormone or cortisol, in depressed subjects and withdrawing methadone addicts.	In a randomized, double blind, cross-over study, human beta-endorphin or saline was infused iv over 30 min into six depressed psychiatric patients and four methadone addicts. All depressed subjects showed prompt, 2- to 4-fold increases in serum PRL levels, which lasted at least 2 h. The addicts, who were undergoing acute methadone withdrawal, showed similar PRL increases, which were dose dependent. beta-Endorphin did not increase serum levels of cortisol or GH in either group of subjects. These results suggest that iv beta-endorphin has potent but selective neuroendocrine effects in depressed patients and subjects withdrawing from methadone.
Effects of combined fluoxetine and counseling in the outpatient treatment of cocaine abusers.	Three methods of analysis were used to determine the effects of the combination of counseling with fluoxetine (20, 40, or 60 mg) and "active" placebo (diphenhydramine, 12.5 mg) randomly assigned. Forty-five cocaine-only dependent subjects were treated as outpatients with "interpersonal" counseling, medication, and drug use monitoring three times per week for up to 12 weeks. Treatment effects were analyzed: first, by comparing the three original assignments and placebo; second, by comparing the placebo group to fluoxetine subjects with detectable fluoxetine/norfluoxetine blood levels and those with no detectable medication blood level; third, by examining relapse prevention versus use cessation through stratifying the subjects into four groups according to fluoxetine or placebo assignment and initial urine cocaine positivity or negativity. All three analyses showed improvement on some measures over time regardless of group assignment. The 60-mg fluoxetine group showed least effectiveness, the group with detectable blood levels had less cravings, and the fluoxetine subjects who were abstinent at the start of treatment were somewhat less likely to avoid relapse than those on placebo.
The effect of antioxidant supplementation on a serum marker of free radical activity and abnormal serum biochemistry in alcoholic patients admitted for detoxification.	Alcoholics admitted for detoxification were entered into a double blind placebo controlled trial of oral supplementation with an antioxidant cocktail (vitamin E, beta carotene, vitamin C and selenium) in order to determine the effect of this supplementation on the rate of resolution of a serum marker of free radical activity and abnormal serum biochemistry. The molar proportion of linoleic acid that was diene conjugated (a marker of free radical activity), was increased in the alcoholics 2.9% +/- 1.2 (mean +/- S.D.) compared to normal controls 1.3% +/- 0.6 (P < 0.0001) but fell at a similar rate during the first week of hospitalisation in supplemented and placebo-treated patients with a mean fall of 53.7% (+/- 16.4 S.D.) in the placebo group and 56.0% (+/- 23.7) (P = 0.32, NS) in the antioxidant supplemented group. Similarly, there was no difference in the rate of fall between serum aspartate transaminase (AST) concentration in the two groups: the placebo group falling by a mean of 68.9% (+/- 35.2) and the antioxidant supplemented group falling by 70.1% (+/- 10.0) (P = 0.41, NS) over the first 7 days of hospitalization. Alcoholics had low serum concentrations of vitamin E compared with controls (15.6 mg/l +/- 6.2 S.D.) which rose more in the supplemented group over the period of a week (7.7 mg/l +/- 4.4 to 21.6 mg/l +/- 5.1) (a mean rise of 180.5%) compared with the placebo group (8.6 mg/l +/- 6.8 to 9.6 mg/l +/- 5.7)--a mean rise of 11.6% (P = 0.006).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regression of thyrotoxic ophthalmopathy following lithium withdrawal.	The case of a bipolar patient who developed thyrotoxicosis with severe exophthalmos while on lithium therapy is described. The patient had required two surgical decompressions of the right orbit to relieve pressure, which occurred secondary to progression of the exophthalmos, and was scheduled for further surgery. Lithium therapy was discontinued because of poor compliance to the medication and intolerable polyuria. The exophthalmos improved dramatically within 72 hours of the withdrawal of lithium. A severe form of exophthalmos resulting from lithium therapy has not been described in the literature. The case described here adds to the body of information about the possible causes of thyrotoxic ophthalmopathy.
Renal function on and off lithium in patients treated with lithium for 15 years or more. A controlled, prospective lithium-withdrawal study.	Controversy remains over the magnitude and reversibility of reduced renal function in long-term lithium patients.
Sex hormones and alcohol withdrawal: does a good supply of testosterone prevent serious symptoms during detoxification?	Owing to the clinical similarity between the male climacteric syndrome and the results of previous studies on the alcohol withdrawal syndrome in relation to sex hormones, we hypothesized that alcoholics with a poor supply of testosterone will develop more pronounced symptoms during alcohol withdrawal than alcoholics with high levels of testosterone. Fifty-two male alcoholics were studied. To test our hypothesis we entered the mean values of the hormones, the mean age, and the mean consumption of liquor (CL) the week before admittance as regressors in a multiple forward stepwise regression analysis with four subclass constructed from the CPRS as dependent variables. Our results indicate that patients with low levels of testosterone develop more neurotic-asthenic symptoms, such as indecision, worrying about trifles, fatigability, and lassitude during alcohol withdrawal. Further, high levels of SHBG were related to a history of seizures and younger alcoholics received higher ratings on the paranoid-aggressive subscale. It is concluded that there is a relation between levels of testosterone and symptoms during alcohol withdrawal. The question of a causal relationship remains to be answered, however. One way to illuminate this would be to add testosterone during detoxification, which may reduce the symptoms mentioned above analogous to the male climacteric syndrome, which could be prosperously treated by a supplement of testosterone. This treatment strategy would have obvious advantages compared to benzodiazepine detoxification as such drugs are potentially addictive.
