Preventing opiate overdose fatalities with take-home naloxone: pre-launch study of possible impact and acceptability.	Before proceeding with the introduction of an overdose fatality prevention programme including teaching in cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and distribution of naloxone, a pre-launch study of treatment and community samples of injecting drug misusers has been undertaken to establish (i) the extent of witnessing overdoses, (ii) the acceptability of naloxone distribution and training; and (iii) the likely impact of such measures.
Towards more effective public health programming for injection drug users: development and evaluation of the injection drug user quality of life scale.	The psychometric properties of the Injection Drug User Quality of Life Scale (IDUQOL) were assessed in 61 Montreal IDUs in 2001, 85% of whom were reinterviewed within four weeks. The reliability of the IDUQOL was acceptable (ICC = 0.71) and concordance between the IDUQOL and the Flanagan Quality of Life Scale was moderate (Pearson coefficient = 0.57). Quality of life was negatively associated with injection cocaine and emergency department use with both instruments; these results were more striking for the IDUQOL. The IDUQOL is a culturally relevant quality of life instrument with good psychometric properties. The IDUQOL may be useful in the development and evaluation of interventions for IDUs.
Needle sharing behaviour among injection drug users (IDUs) in treatment in Montreal and Toronto, 1988-1989.	Injection drug users (IDUs) entering treatment programs in Montreal and Toronto were recruited for a study of drug using behaviour and risk of HIV infection. Only those who had injected within 6 months of entering their treatment program were eligible for participation. 183 subjects were recruited in Montreal and 167 in Toronto between November, 1988 and October, 1989. Each participant completed a standardized interviewer-administered questionnaire which focussed on, among other things, drug history and needle sharing behaviour. Approximately three-quarters of respondents in both cities reported sharing needles and syringes within the 6-month period prior to their entry into treatment. Our analysis, which focussed on variables associated with needle sharing revealed that having a sexual partner who injected, trouble obtaining sterile needles and syringes and cocaine injection were significantly and independently associated with needle sharing in a logistic regression model which also controlled for city of recruitment.
Changes in route of drug administration among continuing heroin users: outcomes 1 year after intake to treatment.	This study investigates the type and extent of changes in route of drug administration among heroin users after treatment: whether injectors move to other routes of use; whether changes in route for one drug influence routes used for other drugs; and associations between changes in route of administration and other substance use outcomes. The sample comprised 641 heroin users recruited to 54 UK treatment programmes. At intake, the main routes of heroin use were injecting (61%) and "chasing the dragon" (37%). After 1 year, 81% of those using heroin took it by the same route as at intake, while 19% reported a change, with 14% switching from injecting to chasing. Changes from injecting to chasing were associated with improvements in other substance use behaviours. Changes in route represent an important aspect of drug-taking behaviours. Interventions to prevent the change to injecting should be developed and offered to noninjectors. "Reverse transitions" (from injecting to chasing) may represent a useful intermediate treatment goal for drug injectors who cannot achieve abstinence.
Persuading general practitioners to prescribe--good husbandry or a recipe for chaos?	Edinburgh's Community Drug Problem Service was set up three years ago in response to the high prevalence of HIV infection amongst local injecting drug users and the lack of existing statutory drug services in Lothian. From the outset, a policy of shared care and substitute prescribing by the druguser's general practitioner (GP) was adopted. Over 800 referrals later, this discussion paper looks at the methods used to persuade GPs to cooperate in longterm drug management, and examines the advantages, disadvantages and outcome of such a shared care approach.
Outreach to injecting drug users and female sexual partners of drug users on the lower east side of New York City.	In 1984, outreach to injecting drug users and their female sexual partners was initiated as part of HIV behavioral research projects. HIV, health, drug treatment and family planning information and services were provided in addition to recruiting subjects to the research program. Such outreach also poses certain problems--especially potential disruption of neighborhood day-to-day life and clashes with police. This paper discusses an outreach program to injecting drug users and their female sexual partners that was initiated in New York City to provide HIV-related information and services. We examine the successes of the program and problems that were involved in conducting outreach to persons who are typically not accessible through formal institutional channels.
A randomized trial of an interim methadone maintenance clinic.	Interim methadone maintenance has been proposed as a method of providing clinically effective services to heroin addicts waiting for treatment in standard comprehensive methadone maintenance programs.
Multiple viral hepatitis in injection drug users and associated risk factors.	While infections due to hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) have been well-studied in injection drug users (IDUs), hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection and coinfection with multiple hepatitis viruses have received less attention.
Examination of the association between syringe exchange program (SEP) dispensation policy and SEP client-level syringe coverage among injection drug users.	To determine whether syringe exchange programs' (SEPs) dispensation policy is associated with syringe coverage among SEP clients.
Examining drug treatment entry patterns among young injection drug users.	Using a longitudinal state data base, 1996-2002, of all Injection Drug Users (IDU) (n = 37,227) admissions to all state-licensed drug treatment programs, this study examined differences in drug treatment entry patterns between younger IDUs (ages 18-25) compared to middle-age IDUs (ages 26-39) and older IDUs (over 40 years of age). Most of the younger IDUs were male, unemployed, and dependent on heroin. After controlling for factors known to affect type of drug treatment entered, younger IDUs were significantly more likely than their older counterparts to only use detoxification services and not enter additional treatment. Further, younger IDUs were significantly less likely to enter methadone maintenance and significantly more likely to enter residential treatment compared to older IDUs. Development of strategies to promote transition from detoxification to more comprehensive treatments and especially to methadone maintenance treatment is warranted.
Predictors of injection drug use cessation among Puerto Rican drug injectors in New York and Puerto Rico.	More than half of all AIDS cases among Puerto Ricans have been attributed to injection drug use. Predictors of injection drug use cessation were examined among Puerto Rican injection drug users (IDUs) in New York and Puerto Rico. Analysis of baseline and 6-month follow-up data from 670 IDUs in NY and 316 in PR showed that 47% NY and 20% in PR reported cessation of injection at follow-up (p < .001). In multivariate analyses, having been in drug treatment since baseline was the only significant predictor of cessation for both sites (NY: AOR = 1.80; PR: AOR = 3.10). Increasing availability of methadone maintenance treatment, especially in PR, was indicated.
Combined naloxone/methadone preparations for opiate substitution therapy.	Every opportunity should be used to reduce the risk of HIV-1 infection and transmission among intravenous drug users (IVDUs). Methadone maintenance is widely accepted to keep the drug user away from risk-laden practices and to stop intravenous drug use. In order to minimize the diversion and intravenous abuse of methadone in maintenance programs, the effects of a combined naloxone/methadone preparation through oral intake and the effects of an intravenous administration were tested. In opiate addicts, the intravenous administration of this mixture caused a severe withdrawal syndrome lasting for 15 to 30 minutes. The oral administration of this combination was indistinguishable from methadone alone. It is argued that this combination therapy prevents the intravenous abuse of methadone in maintenance programs.
Positive modification of injecting behavior among intravenous heroin users from Milan and northern Italy 1987-1989. NISDA Study.	The prevalence of risk behaviors in 933 intravenous drug users from Milan and other areas of Northern Italy was studied from 1 January 1987 to 15 April 1989. A preventive intervention, based on counseling with HIV antibody testing, was undertaken with i.v. drug users attending detoxication centers, and subjects were followed up in order to evaluate its effects. At enrollment all subjects reported heroin use, 18% also used cocaine and 6% morphine. Seventy-two per cent reported sharing or having shared syringes, with variation across geographical areas. Four hundred and sixty subjects were visited at least twice (mean follow-up was 10.4 months): 30% of these stopped injecting altogether and the frequency of injecting as well as of syringe sharing decreased whereas no improvement was seen in sexual behaviour. Detoxication therapy, combined with HIV testing and counseling proved effective in reducing heroin assumption and the frequency of syringe sharing, whereas the prevalence of risk behaviors in i.v. drug users at recruitment over the years 1987-1988 showed no change, or even increased, despite of general information and health education campaigns against AIDS.
Treatment of drug-dependent patients with methadone. 2: AIDS prevention by drug substitution?]	On the basis of epidemiological findings, it is shown that methadone programs are unsuitable to prevent the spread of HIV infection, and that the AIDS epidemic among intravenous drug users does not justify the introduction of such programs. Abstinence from all psychotropic substances should remain the overriding aim of all rehabilitation programs for drug addicts.
Buprenorphine: beyond methadone?	This month's guest authors are affiliated with the substance abuse treatment and treatment research unit of the Connecticut Mental Health Center and the department of psychiatry at Yale University School of Medicine, where Dr. Rosen is instructor and Dr. Kosten is associate professor. They discuss a promising new treatment that may reduce abuse of cocaine by drug addicts who use intravenous heroin and may indirectly reduce risk-taking behavior associated with transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus.
Opioid substitution treatment in pretrial prison detention: a case study from Geneva, Switzerland.	Opioid substitution treatment (OST) is not uniformly provided in all prisons as recommended by international guidelines. The Swiss prison of Champ-Dollon in Geneva is an exception, where OST has been available for the last 20 years. The aims of this study were to describe the OST programme in this pretrial prison setting, and the patients involved.
Social support and sexual risk taking among women on methadone.	This study examines the social support network of 109 female methadone patients and explores the relationship between social support and background variables, attitudes toward safer sex and sexual risk behavior. Subjects reported small supportive networks consisting primarily of drug users. Women who felt more loved by, respected by, and involved with a network of communication and mutual obligation, were more likely to feel comfortable talking about safer sex with their sexual partners and asking their sexual partners about their HIV status. They were also less likely to believe that their sexual partners would be upset if they suggested using a condom. No association was found between social support and frequency of condom use or frequency of sex with IV drug users during the last six months. Findings suggest the plausibility of multifaceted social support network interventions designed for methadone maintained women at high risk for HIV infection.
Fluoxetine alters the effects of intravenous cocaine in humans.	Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is currently being evaluated as a potential treatment for cocaine abuse. This 4-week inpatient study evaluated the pharmacologic interaction between fluoxetine and cocaine in healthy adult male volunteers (N = 5) with histories of cocaine abuse. Oral capsules were administered daily containing either placebo (weeks 1 and 4) or fluoxetine in a series of ascending doses (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg) where each dose was given for three to four consecutive days. Cocaine challenge sessions were conducted twice weekly, once at each active dose level and twice during both the placebo and washout phases. Subjects received three ascending intravenous doses of cocaine (0, 20, and 40 mg) 1.5 hours apart and were monitored on physiologic and subjective measures. Cocaine alone increased heart rate, blood pressure, and pupillary diameter and increased subjective reports reflecting positive mood effects and drug liking. Fluoxetine (40 mg) significantly decreased subjective ratings of cocaine's positive mood effects on several visual analog measures. Fluoxetine also attenuated the mydriatic effect of cocaine. No adverse physiologic interactions between the two drugs were observed on cardiovascular measures. These data suggest that fluoxetine may be safely used in the presence of cocaine use and should be investigated further as a potential pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse.
Trends in HIV seroprevalence, AIDS and prevention policy among intravenous drug users and men who have sex with men, before and after 1990 in Austria.	This study reports for the first time on secular trends in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and AIDS, and possible associations with prevention policy in Austria. We analysed HIV seroprevalence and AIDS cases among intravenous drug users (IDU) and men who have sex with men (MSM). In this study we found a diminished rate of increase in new cases of AIDS and a decline in HIV seroprevalence among IDU but not among MSM. Among clients visiting HIV counselling and testing centres in Austria between 1987 and 1990, seroprevalence among IDU was estimated at 27.9% as compared to 19.6% between 1990 and 1992 (odds ratio (OR): 0.62; 0.45-0.85). Among MSM corresponding prevalence for these two periods was 12.1% and 10.9%, respectively, which was not a significant decline. In the period 1990 to 1994, the increase in AIDS cases per half-year levelled off for IDU (incidence rate ratio (IRR) :1.00; 0.99-1.01) but to a lesser extent among MSM (IRR: 1.01; 1.01-1.02). The most effective prevention policy intervention was considered to be the national Methadone Maintenance Program (MMTP), started in 1987, and the provision of sterile injection equipment. We observed that in the recent period there was a decline in the frequency of attendance among young (less than 28 years of age) MSM at counselling centres (OR: 1.27; 95 % CI: 1.08-1.49), accompanied by the observation that the rate of seroprevalence among this group did not decline. This is in contrast to young IDU where attendance did not decline but seroprevalence did. Although inference is limited from cross sectional studies, we argue for a reoriented and effectively monitored HIV prevention policy focused on young MSM.
