Immunfluorescence study of neuropeptides in identified neurons of the rat auditory superior olivary complex.	The present study was conducted to investigate the distribution and immunohistochemical characteristics of ascending and descending projection neurons of the rat superior olivary complex (SOC), a group of interrelated brainstem nuclei. Ascending neurons were identified by injection of cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) into the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC), descending neurons were labeled by application of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the scala tympani of the cochlea, ipsilaterally to the IC injection. In accordance with the literature, we observed neurons innervating the IC located in the lateral superior olivary nucleus (LSO) and dorsal periolivary groups (DPO) on both sides, in the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPO) predominantly ipsilateral, as well as in the ipsilateral medial superior olivary nucleus (MSO) and the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Cochlear projection neurons were found predominantly in the ipsilateral LSO as well as in the bilateral SPO, DPO, MSO and MNTB. In addition, a considerable population of neurons in the ipsilateral LSO and SPO were identified as being both ascending and descending. To further characterize these double-projecting neurons, brainstem sections were incubated in antisera directed against different neuroactive substances. The majority of ascending/descending cells in the LSO contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, but not substance P (SP), met-enkephalin (ENK) or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Some of these neurons apparently were contacted by ENK- or SP-immunoreactive fibers and terminals. In addition, we found TH-immunoreactive neurons in the lateral MNTB region. These neurons, which were labeled upon tracer injection into the cochlea (but not upon IC injection), probably belong to the C1 catecholaminergic cell group and may represent a division of the uncrossed olivocochlear bundle. The present results reveal the existence of a previously unknown subpopulation of SOC neurons that project to both the cochlea and the inferior colliculus. Their CGRP immunoreactivity and their uncrossed projection pattern provide evidence that they may belong to the cholinergic, putatively excitatory cell group.
Neurochemical coding of myenteric neurons in the guinea-pig antrum.	Electrophysiological studies of myenteric neurons in the guinea-pig antrum suggest that different neuroactive compounds are involved in synaptic transmission. It is not known what neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are present and to what extent they colocalize. Immunohistochemical stainings were performed on whole-mount preparations of the guinea-pig antrum. Immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase was used as a general marker and was set at 100%. There was no overlap between cholinergic and nitrergic neurons, resulting in two separate subpopulations. The presence of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was used to identify the cholinergic subset, which accounted for 56% of the cells. Immunoreactivity for nitric oxide synthase, on the other hand, was displayed in 40.7% of the neurons. Substance-P immunoreactivity was present in 37.4% of the cells and vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y in 21.7% and 28.6%, respectively. Small subsets of neurons had immunoreactivity for serotonin (3.9%), calretinin (6.8%) and calbindin (0.5%). Colocalization studies revealed several subgroups of neurons, containing one or more of the screened markers. Though some similarity is found in the chemical coding of the antrum compared to that of the small intestine and the corpus, remarkable differences can be seen in the occurrence of some subpopulations. Cholinergic neurons are not as predominant as in other parts of the gut, serotonin presence is doubled and some vasointestinal-peptide-positive neurons express substance P. These differences might reflect the highly specialized function of the antrum; however, the exact role of these classes remains to be established.
Substance P immunoreactive nerves and interstitial cells of Cajal in the rat and guinea-pig ileum. A histochemical and quantitative study.	The substance P (SP)-containing nerves at the deep (DMP) and myenteric (MP) plexuses and the related interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC-DMP and ICC-MP) were immunohistochemically studied in rat and guinea-pig ileum. All the ICC expressed SP-preferred receptor NK1r: the ICC-DMP showed an intense and the ICC-MP a faint NK1r-immunoreactivity(IR). c-kit-labeling confirmed that they were ICC. The SP-IR nerves at the DMP were significantly more numerous in the guinea-pig than in the rat, and more numerous than those at the MP in both animal species. All the ICC-DMP in the guinea-pig and half of them in the rat were close to SP-IR nerves. The ICC-MP were rarely near to SP-IR nerves in either species. The SP-innervation shows interspecies differences at the DMP that imply a different tachykinergic control of the local ICC.
Distribution of substance-P nerve fibers in the knee joint in patients with anterior knee pain syndrome. A preliminary report.	The etiology of pain in anterior knee pain syndrome is a matter of controversy. The normal, articular cartilage is aneural, so defects in the surface are not thought to produce pain. Some authors have sought the origin of the pain in soft tissue structures around the knee. Knowledge of the distribution of nociceptive nerve fibers around the knee would provide insight for treating anterior knee pain syndrome. Twenty consecutive patients (28 knees), all women, with anterior knee pain syndrome (group I) participated in the study. For comparison we used two groups of patients: 20 patients with an osteoarthritic knee (group II) and 20 patients with anterior cruciate ligament rupture or meniscal lesion with no history of pain in the anterior compartment (group III). Immunohistochemical techniques using a monoclonal antibody to substance-P (SP) were employed to identify nociceptive fibers. For statistical analyses we used the one-way ANOVA test, which was corrected with the LSD test, at the level of significance P < 0.05. Results of the study demonstrate that SP-immunoreactive nerve fibers are widespread within the soft tissues around the knee. These tissues include the retinaculum, synovium, fat pad and, in some circumstances, bone. In cases of anterior knee pain, the presence of neuropeptide-containing fibers was statistically significant in the medial retinaculum (P < 0.005) and in the fat pad (P < 0.001) compared to group III, and compared to group II (P < 0.05 and P < 0.007, respectively). For lateral retinaculum this relationship was not so statistically strong (P < 0.02) and was equal in comparison between anterior knee pain patients (group I) and group II or group III. There were no statistically significant differences in the distribution of substance-P nerve fibers in the fat pad, lateral and medial retinaculum or synovium between groups II and III. The results of this study provide immunohistochemical evidence suggesting that pain may originate in the fat pad and medial retinaculum of many patients with anterior knee pain syndrome.
Structural, neuronal, and functional adaptive changes in atrophic rat ileum.	Inactivity of the gut leads to atrophic changes of which little is known.
Mucosa of the guinea pig gastric corpus is innervated by myenteric neurones with specific neurochemical coding and projection preferences.	The present study identified and characterised myenteric neurones involved in the innervation of the gastric mucosa. We applied retrograde neuronal tracing methods by using the dye DiI (1,1'-didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorat) in combination with the immunohistochemical demonstration of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), enkephalin (ENK), neuropeptide Y (NPY), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), substance P (SP), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). This method showed distinct neurochemical coding of DiI-labelled neurones with projections to the mucosa (mucosa neurones): ChAT/- (indicating the presence of ChAT only, 32%), ChAT/NPY/ +/- VIP (22%), NOS/NPY/ +/- VIP (19%), ChAT/SP/ +/- ENK (12%), NOS/- (indicating the presence of NOS only, 8%), or ChAT/ENK (4.6%). DiI-labelled mucosa neurones did not contain calretinin, serotonin, or somatostatin. All ChAT population had primarily ascending projections, whereas the NOS populations had mainly descending projections. Both were further classified as longitudinally and circumferentially projecting neurones, the latter having projection preferences towards the lesser or greater curvature. All subpopulations exhibited projection preferences. Nitrergic projections primarily arose from cell bodies located at the lesser curvature. ChAT/- projections, which dominated the cholinergic pathway, mainly arose from cell bodies located at the greater curvature. The other major cholinergic pathway with the code ChAT/NPY/ +/- VIP consisted of neurones located mainly at the lesser curvature. The results suggest specific coding of gastric myenteric neurones with projections to the mucosa. Polarised projections consisted of ascending cholinergic and descending nitrergic neurones; the additional presence of NPY/VIP was a prominent feature in both pathways. Chemical coding, polarity, and projection preferences of enteric pathways to the gastric mucosa are remarkably different from those of other regions in the gut.
Taste buds and neuronal markers in patients with chronic renal failure.	To study the number of taste buds and, with the use of specific markers for peripheral nervous tissue, to study the neuronal pattern in taste buds from 36 patients with chronic renal failure (CRF), 19 renal transplant recipients, and 40 healthy subjects. Of the patients with CRF, 17 patients had not started dialysis, 12 patients were on peritoneal dialysis, and 7 patients were on hemodialysis.
Immunocytochemical localisation of neuropeptide-containing nerve fibres in human labial glands.	Different neuropeptide-containing nerve fibers (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P, neuropeptide Y) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) positive nerve fibers were investigated to clarify their role in the function of human labial glands using immunohisto- and immunocytochemical techniques. The distribution pattern of all immunoreactive nerve fibers was similar both in the control and in the Sjögren's syndrome specimens. A large number of thin varicose vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and NOS positive nerve fibers were seen around or in close contact with the acini. Some of the immunoreactive nerve fibers were associated with the salivary ducts and blood vessels. Substance P and neuropeptide Y immunoreactive nerve fibers were located mainly around the blood vessels. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that some of the positive nerve fibers were in direct contact with the acini, blood vessels and with the lymphocytes. The gap between the membranes of immunoreactive nerve terminals and the target cells was 40 to 200 nm. The number of the nerve terminals in Sjögren's syndrome specimens was decreased and some degenerated axons were also found. These results suggest that these neuropeptides and nitric oxide might act as a neurotransmitter in the regulation of secretion and blood flow in the labial glands. These fibers might also alter the neuroimmunological processes, because the investigated neuropeptides are known to be immunoregulators.
Ectopic substance P-immunoreactive boutons are preferentially presynaptic to neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactive dendrites in the spinal white matter of transgenic mice.	A recent immunocytochemical study has shown that substance P (SP) preferentially innervates targets expressing the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1r) in the superficial spinal dorsal horn of the rat. Based on these findings, we decided to further investigate the relationship between SP and the NK-1r in a transgenic mouse model in which SP fibres are ectopically located. Double-labelling immunocytochemistry at both the light and electron microscopic levels was performed to study the association between SP and the NK-1r in the spinal white matter of both control and transgenic mice. Light microscopy revealed NK-1r-immunoreactive (IR) dendrites in the white matter of the dorsolateral funiculus in both control and transgenic mice. In transgenic mice, but not in controls, SP-IR fibres were observed in close proximity to the NK-1r-IR dendrites in the white matter. At the ultrastructural level, SP-IR boutons were apposed to NK-1r-IR dendrites in the dorsolateral funiculus of transgenic mice, and a synapse was frequently observed as well. These results indicate that, even in conditions in which SP fibres are ectopically located, they still preferentially innervate targets expressing the NK-1r.
Substance P and substance P receptors in bone and gingival tissues.	Substance P (SP) is an important member of the tachykinin family of neuropeptides, which work as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. Recent advances in the analysis of SP receptors, particularly the neurokinin-1 receptors (NK1-Rs) that have high affinity for SP, have demonstrated that they are distributed not only in the cells of the neuronal or immune systems but also in peripheral cells. Therefore, the effect of SP and its cellular receptors is not limited to the nervous or immune systems, but is more extensive than previously appreciated. SP-like immunoreactive (SP-LI) axons have been localized in both bone and gingival tissue, and SP receptors are widely distributed in osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and junctional epithelial cells, as well as in neutrophils and endothelial cells. The distribution of SP-LI axons and SP receptors suggests that SP may directly modulate bone metabolism and gingival tissue functions through SP receptors.
Intestinal inflammation and activation of sensory nerve pathways: a functional and morphological study in the nematode infected rat.	In the rat, gastric distension elicits an intensity dependent pseudoaffective bradycardia mediated via capsaicin sensitive afferent and cholinergic efferent vagal pathways. Inflammation alters visceral perception although the mediators responsible have not been identified. In the nematode infected rat, there is a substantial increase in neuronal substance P (SP) content of the gut.
Colocalization of peptide and glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivities in rat central amygdaloid nucleus.	The central amygdaloid nucleus (ACe) is part of the amygdaloid complex that participates in adrenocorticotrophin secretion, stress-related reactions and behavioral functions. The ACe contains numerous glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-immunoreactive (IR) neurons, and in addition it has been shown to contain several neuropeptide-IR somata and nerve terminals. In order to study the relationship between the GR- and neuropeptide-IR structures we mapped the distribution of GR-like immunoreactivity (LI) in amygdaloid complex and colocalized the neuropeptide- and GR-LIs in the ACe. In the amygdaloid complex the central, medial and cortical nuclei contained a high number of GR-IR neurons, whereas a moderate number of GR-IR neurons were observed in the basolateral and basomedial nuclei. Only a few GR-IR neurons were seen in the lateral nucleus. In the ACe, the majority of corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF)-, met-enkephalin (met-ENK)-, neurotensin (NT)- and somatostatin (SOM)-IR neurons contained also GR-IR. About half of the substance P (SP)-IR neurons were seen to contain GR-IR, whereas only some of the few vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin-IR neurons showed GR-LI. Nerve terminals containing calcitonin gene-related peptide and the above mentioned peptides were seen in close contact with the GR-IR neurons. These results suggest that the glucocorticoids may modulate directly the neurotransmitter synthesis of the CRF-, met-ENK, NT-, SOM- and SP-IR cells in the ACe.
Morphologic and quantitative changes in neurotransmitters in the lumbar spinal cord after acute or chronic mechanical compression of the cauda equina.	Changes in the neurotransmitters associated with pain transmission and regulation in the lumbar spinal cord were studied after acute or chronic mechanical compression of the cauda equina in rats. Using glyoxylic acid histofluorescence and immunohistochemical methods, it was morphologically apparent that substance P-containing nerve ending were decreased after chronic compression of the cauda equina. Somatostatin nerve terminals were reduced, and aminergic fibers and serotonin were enhanced after both acute and chronic mechanical compressions. In addition, quantitative analysis revealed that the levels of norepinephrine and serotonin remained elevated after mechanical compression of the cauda equina. It is suggested that pain in the lower back and extremities after mechanical compression of the cauda equina is controlled by these complicated changes of neurotransmitters in the lumbar spinal cord.
Immunohistochemical localisation of substance P in human parotid gland.	Based on the clinical observation that pain is experienced during parotid gland surgery under local anaesthesia, the presence of the sensory neuropeptide substance P (SP) was sought. Using a polyclonal antibody, the presence of SP was demonstrated by an indirect immunofluorescence technique, with rat parotid gland and spinal cord serving as controls. SP-containing neuronal elements occurred around acini, blood vessels and ducts. It is suggested that some of the SP-immunoreactive elements are the unmyelinated and thinly myelinated small diameter (A delta and C) fibres, which are regarded as the peripheral receptors for nociceptive information.
Relationship between neuropeptide immunoreactive nerves and inflammatory cells in adjuvant arthritic rats.	The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship of neuropeptide nerves and inflammatory leukocytes in PVG rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive nerves and inflammatory leukocytes were studied, using peroxidase (ABC) and/or alkaline phosphatase (APAAP) staining. Inflamed synovial tissue proper was infiltrated with neutrophils, ED1 macrophages and focal accumulations of CD2 T lymphocytes. In such tissue, the relationship between peptide-immunoreactive nerves and inflammatory cells was such that substance P and CGRP nerves were absent in heavily infiltrated villous synovial tissue, whereas healthy synovial tissue and non-inflammatory areas in adjuvant arthritic rats were innervated by substance P and CGRP nerves close to normal synovial tissue resident cells. In order to elucidate an eventual mechanism for lost immunoreactivity, healthy synovial tissue was exposed to chymotrypsin or oxygen derived free radicals (ODFR) in vitro. The former treatment caused total loss of immunoreactivity. These findings suggest that neuropeptides and neuropeptide containing nerves may be destroyed by locally produced proteolytic enzymes and various reactive oxygen species in the vicinity of inflammatory cells.
Are lymphocytes a target for substance P modulation in arthritis?	The contribution of the neuropeptide substance P to the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has recently been suggested. The presence of immunoreactive substance P in the serum and joint fluid of RA patients was significantly increased compared with age-matched control patients. To investigate the ability of substance P to alter lymphocyte activity during the disease, lymphocytes were isolated from the synovial fluid and blood of RA patients and their ability to respond to substance P as measured by [3H]thymidine uptake was characterized. Upon exposure of RA synovial fluid and peripheral blood lymphocytes to various concentrations of substance P in vitro, no increase in proliferation was witnessed. To the contrary, control peripheral blood lymphocyte proliferation was significantly enhanced by various concentrations of substance P. However, synoviocytes from the joints of RA patients were responsive to substance P stimulation. These data suggest that substance P receptors may be desensitized on systemic and local lymphocytes in RA, or the proinflammatory activities of substance P may be mediated via the synovial membrane during chronic inflammation.
Matrix-assisted laser desorption using a fast-atom bombardment ion source and a magnetic mass spectrometer.	A conventional fast-atom bombardment (FAB) ion source was used to achieve matrix-assisted laser desorption (MALD) in a high-mass, double-focusing, magnetic mass spectrometer. The pulsed ion signals generated by irradiation of a mixture of sample and matrix (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) with either a XeF excimer laser (353 nm) or a nitrogen laser (337 nm) were recorded with a focal-plane detector. A resolution (full-width at half maximum) of 4500 was achieved at m/z 1347.7 (the peptide substance P), 2500 for CsI cluster ions at m/z 10,005.7, and 1250 for the isotope cluster of the small protein cytochrome c (horse) [M+H]+ = m/z 12,360 (average). Sensitivity is demonstrated with 11 fmol of substance P. A survey scan is taken to locate the m/z of the sample molecular ion. The segment that contains the sample can then be integrated for a longer time to produce a better signal-to-noise ratio. In addition to higher sensitivity and lower matrix interference, the advantage of MALD over FAB is the former's lower susceptibility to the presence of salts, and competition between hydrophobic and hydrophilic components of a mixture. This feature is demonstrated by the complete MALD spectrum of a crude partial tryptic digest of sperm-whale apomyoglobin, containing 24 peptides, representing the entire sequence of this protein.
Distribution of neuropeptide Y, substance P, and choline acetyltransferase in the developing visual system of the pigeon and effects of unilateral retina removal.	The distribution of three neuroactive substances, neuropeptide Y, substance P, and choline acetyltransferase, was studied by immunocytochemical methods in central visual regions of adult, developing, and ablated pigeon brains. In normal adult brains, neuropeptide Y-positive cells and processes were present in the nucleus pretectalis, the nucleus of the basal optic root, the nucleus of the marginal optic tract, and the visual Wulst. Substance P-positive cells and processes were found in the optic tectum and in the visual Wulst. Stained fibers and terminal-like processes, but no cells, were also observed in several visual thalamic nuclei. Choline acetyltransferase-positive cells and processes were located in the optic tectum, visual Wulst, the nucleus isthmo opticus, nucleus isthmi and certain visual thalamic nuclei. Cholinergic fibers and processes, but no cells, were present in the nucleus principalis precommissuralis, the supraoptic decussation, and the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, pars magnocellularis. In the course of development, the distribution of immunoreactivity for all three substances was found to vary. These changes often involved either progressive increases or decreases in the density of labeled cells, neuropil and/or terminal-like profiles. Experiments with retina ablated pigeons clearly demonstrated that changes in the normal pattern of immunoreactivity distribution only occurred if the retina was removed immediately after hatching, i.e., before retinofugal connections have been established. The adult pattern of immunoreactivity for all three substances appears to be reached at about the same time that the anatomical and functional maturation of the pigeon visual system is completed. The present results suggest that this temporal correlation reflects the important role that retinal afferents play in the development of these putative peptidergic and cholinergic systems.
Striosomal organization of substance P-like immunoreactivity in parkinsonian patients.	We designed this study to evaluate the expression of substance P (SP) in the striatum and the globus pallidus in normal controls, idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), and striatonigral degeneration (SND). We determined immunohistochemically the expression of SP in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brain tissues using the free-floating method. In normal controls, we observed SP-like immunoreactivity in the internal segment of the globus pallidus, where the SP-positive fibers showed typical "woolly fiber" patterns. SP expression in the striatum had the characteristic patchwork of striosomes. Patients with PD showed the normal distribution pattern of SP. By comparison, in patients with SND, there was a striking diminution of SP in the putamen, while the SP-positive patches persisted in the caudate nucleus. This study represents the first unequivocal immunohistochemical demonstration of SP-positive striosomes in the human striatum.
Occurrence and distribution of different neurochemical markers in the human dental pulp.	The occurrence and distribution of neuronal markers in human premolar and molar pulps were studied immunohistochemically. In the apical and central parts of the pulp, evenly distributed, thick neurofilament-immunoreactive nerve bundles predominated, which in many instances accompanied blood vessels. In the coronal parts, especially in the pulp horns, such nerve bundles formed a subodontoblastic plexus, while thin neurofilament-immunoreactive fibres projected into the odontoblastic region. In the coronal parts of the pulp, thin, varicose, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and occasionally substance P-immunoreactive fibres were observed in the pulp-dentine zone and also in the vicinity of blood vessels. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) fibres were distributed in several nerve bundles, while single VIP fibres were seen projecting into the odontoblastic region as well as in the vicinity of blood vessels. Peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI)-immunoreactive fibres showed a similar distribution as VIP, but were less common. Furthermore, neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibres occurred occasionally around blood vessels in the inner parts of the pulp. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerve fibres with a varicose appearance were observed in some nerve bundles, but were also frequently seen around and in blood vessels. In premolar pulps obtained from teeth with open apices a less dense neurofilament innervation was seen in the coronal pulp. However, no apparent difference in the occurrence and distribution of the other neuronal markers was found compared to mature teeth. The human dental pulp, thus, seems to have a rich occurrence of neuropeptides and tyrosine hydroxylase in thin, varicose fibres. However, the distribution of the fibres expressing immunoreactivity to these neuronal markers seems to be sparse in comparison to neurofilament-immunoreactive fibres.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity in the brain of the gymnotiform fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus: presence of sex differences.	The distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPli) was charted in the brain of the gymnotiform fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus, and correlated with the circuitry underlying intraspecific electrocommunication. Cell bodies were found predominantly in the lateral hypothalamus and in certain paraventricular organs: nucleus preopticus periventricularis, anterior subdivision; anterior hypothalamus; nucleus posterioris periventricularis; nucleus recessus lateralis, medial subdivision 2; nucleus recessus posterioris and nucleus recessus lateralis, lateral subdivision. Cell bodies were also found in the rostral olfactory nucleus, ventral telencephalon (ventral and central subdivisions), the habenula, the vagal sensory and motor nuclei and in the subtrigeminal nucleus. The distribution of SPli fibers was similar in some respects to that reported for other vertebrates. SPli was found in the rhombencephalon associated with vagal afferent fibers and in the funicular nucleus (possibly related to nociception). In the diencephalon and midbrain SPli fibers were found in the habenular-interpeduncular tract, in the hypothalamus and pituitary. SPli fibers were also found in preoptic and forebrain areas. The most striking result was the sexually dimorphic SPli innervation of certain hypothalamic and septal nuclei, and of the prepacemaker nucleus (PPn), a diencephalic cell group which controls communication ('chirping') in gymnotiforms. The PPn and septal/hypothalamic nuclei were densely innervated by SPli in males but devoid of SPli in females.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide in the human trigeminal sensory system at developmental and adult life stages: immunohistochemistry, neuronal morphometry and coexistence with substance P.	The distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has been examined by the indirect immunofluorescence technique in the Gasserian ganglion and spinal nucleus of the human trigeminal nerve. In the ganglion CGRP is present in almost 50% of primary sensory neurons, in varicose and non-varicose nerve fibres and in pericellular basket-like plexuses around non-immunoreactive ganglionic perikarya. Morphometric analysis reveals that the CGRP-positive neuronal population is heterogeneous in cell size. Observation of specimens from subjects at fetal, perinatal and adult life stages reveals that the percentage of CGRP-immunoreactive cells reaches a maximum at perinatal stages and then remains constant, declining only in old age. Pericellular basket-like nerve fibres are detectable only in fetal and pre-term and full-term newborn tissue. Coexistence between CGRP and substance P (SP) occurs, SP being present in about one quarter of the CGRP-immunoreactive neurons and CGRP being localized in a little more than half of the SP-immunoreactive neurons. However, perikarya, nerve fibres and pericellular fibres containing only one or other peptide are also present. Bundles of immunoreactive fibres and dot-like nerve terminals occur in the spinal tract and superficial and deep regions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. A particularly dense plexus is present in the peripheral nuclear layers. Double immunostaining shows a similar regional distribution for SP. However, in inner substantia gelatinosa the density of CGRP-immunoreactive fibres is much higher than that of SP-immunoreactive ones. The results obtained add information to our knowledge of the organization of neurochemically identified neurons in the human trigeminal sensory system.
Increased levels of substance P in the myenteric plexus of Trichinella-infected rats.	Changes in immunoreactive substance P concentrations were investigated in longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations from the inflamed jejunum of Trichinella spiralis-infected rats. The substance P concentration increased within 2 days of infection and increased fivefold by day 6; in contrast, there was no significant increase in substance P in the noninflamed ileum. In vitro exposure of preparations from infected rats to scorpion venom reduced substance P levels by 88%. In addition, no increase in substance P was observed in rats that had been treated with capsaicin as neonates or as adults before infection. Treatment of infected rats with betamethasone attenuated the inflammatory response to the infection and prevented the increase in substance P. Furthermore, no significant increase in substance P concentration was seen in congenitally athymic rats infected with T. spiralis. This study is consistent with the hypothesis that inflammation increases substance P in myenteric nerves by a process that involves T lymphocytes.
Morphological features of the myenteric plexus of the stomach of the axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, revealed by immunocytochemistry.	The general morphology of the intramural innervation of the myenteric plexus of the axolotl stomach has been investigated using antisera raised against neuron-specific enolase and a microtubule-associated protein. Additionally, the occurrence of serotonin and several peptidergic neurotransmitter/neuromodulator substances was studied. Immunoreactivity for galanin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P and neuromedin U was found in both fibres and intrinsic perikarya, whereas the serotonin and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like-substance-containing nerve fibres seemed to be of extrinsic origin. The axolotl stomach myenteric plexus appeared to be devoid of enkephalin-, neuropeptide Y-, somatostatin- and bombesin-like immunoreactive nerve fibres and nerve cell bodies. Double labelling experiments revealed the presence of a subpopulation of substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive nerve fibres. Contrary to mammals, no coexistence of neuromedin U and substance P was found. Our findings illustrate that besides a number of similarities, considerable species differences exist between urodeles and anurans with regard to the organization of the enteric nervous system.
VVA-labelled cells in monkey visual cortex are double-labelled by a polyclonal antibody to a cell surface epitope.	The staining patterns produced by the lectin Vicia villosa and by a commercially available polyclonal antibody generated to substance P were analysed and compared in monkey visual cortex at the light and electron microscopic levels. Vicia villosa lectin labels the cell surface of a subpopulation of cortical cells, producing a meshlike pattern over the soma and proximal dendrites. The polyclonal antibody labels three distinct elements in the cortex: a pericellular epitope present on a subpopulation of non-pyramidal cells, and putative intracellular sites in a type of small pyramidal cell located at the layer 5/6 border, and in a small number of non-pyramidal cells in the underlying white matter. Because of the similarity of the appearance of the Vicia villosa lectin labelling and the pericellular labelling produced by the polyclonal antibody, further experiments were conducted to determine the relationship between the cell surface sites recognized by these markers. Double-labelling experiments show that both sites are present on the same population of cells, and at the ultrastructural level both markers appear to outline the intersynaptic cell membrane, sometimes extending around presynaptic elements. However, preadsorption experiments indicate that the markers recognize different sites on the cell membrane. Preadsorption experiments also show that the pericellular epitope recognized by the polyclonal antibody is unlikely to be substance P, but it may be structurally similar to keyhole limpet haemocyanin. Comparison of cortical and subcortical staining patterns produced with the polyclonal antibody and with a commonly used monoclonal antibody to substance P reveal that one of the putative intracellular epitopes recognized by the polyclonal antibody is likely to be substance P.
Serotonin-, substance P- and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive neurons projecting from the midbrain periaqueductal gray to the nucleus tractus solitarii in the rat.	Serotonin-, substance P- and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive neurons in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) were observed to send their axons to the nucleus tractus solitarii in the rat by the retrograde horseradish peroxidase tracing method combined with the immunocytochemical technique. These neurons were most frequently observed in the ventrolateral subnucleus and ventral portion of the medial subnucleus of the PAG at the entire rostrocaudal levels.
Substance P-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive fiber projections from the superior colliculus to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in the rat.	Substance P (SP)-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-, and cholecystokinin (CCK)-like immunoreactive (LI) neurons were found in the superior colliculus (SC) of the rat, and examined to ascertain whether they sent projection fibers to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd). Immunocytochemical staining with antisera against SP, VIP, and CCK showed that many immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were located in the superficial layers of the SC, especially in the stratum griseum superficiale. The pattern of distribution of these immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies in the SC was similar to that of neuronal cell bodies which were retrogradely labeled with WGA-HRP (wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate) injected ipsilaterally into the LGNd. On the other hand, SP-, VIP- and CCK-LI axons were seen most densely in the lateral part of the LGNd, especially in the small-celled LGNd zone adjacent to the optic tract, where anterograde labeling was also observed after injection of WGA-HRP ipsilaterally into the superficial layers of the SC. When a lesion was produced by kainic acid injection into the superficial layers of the SC, axons showing SP-, VIP-, or CCK-LI in the LGNd ipsilateral to the lesion were markedly depleted. The results indicate that SC-LGNd projection neurons contain SP, VIP, and/or CCK in the rat.
Histochemical study of the heart of the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum).	We have investigated the presence of cells containing monoamines, substance P, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in the heart and in the pericardial wall of a urodele amphibian, the axolotl. Fibers containing substance P-like immunoreactivity were present in the heart but not in the pericardial wall. Also present in the heart were small branched cells, which stained metachromatically with toluidine blue. Similar cells were found in the peritoneum and were tentatively identified as mast cells. NSE-immunoreactive fibers were found both in the heart and in the pericardial wall. Small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells of the pericardial wall contained a high concentration of norepinephrine but no other monoamines, substance P, or NSE. Comparison with data available for the mudpuppy, Necturus maculosus, a closely related amphibian species, suggests that the innervation of the heart in the axolotl is substantially different.
A 35 kDa Fos-related antigen is co-localized with substance P and dynorphin in striatal neurons.	The rat striatum after dopamine denervation followed by repeated apomorphine treatment was examined for the co-expression of c-fos and Fos-related antigens with dynorphin, substance P and [Met5]enkephalin using Western blot and immunohistochemical techniques. Administration of apomorphine, a dopamine agonist, elevated the level of 35 kDa Fos-related antigen which co-localized with dynorphin and substance P, but not enkephalin, in striatal neurons.
Substance-P-related and neurokinin-A-related peptides from the brain of the cod and trout.	An extract of the brain of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss contained high concentrations of both neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity (corresponding to 90 pmol mammalian neurokinin A/g wet tissue) and substance-P-like immunoreactivity (corresponding to 50 pmol mammalian substance P/g wet tissue) measured by radioimmunoassay using antisera directed against the C-terminal regions of the mammalian peptides. In contrast, an extract of the Atlantic cod. Gadus morhua contained only neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity (151 pmol/g). This apparent paradox was resolved by determination of the primary structures of the fish tachykinins. Trout substance P (Lys-Pro-Arg-Pro-His-Gln-Phe-Phe-Gly-Leu-MetNH2) has the same amino acid sequence in its C-terminal region as that in the corresponding region of mammalian substance P. Cod substance P (Lys-Pro-Arg-Pro-Gln-Gln-Phe-Ile-Gly-Leu-MetNH2), however, contains a substitution at position 8 (Phe----Ile) that abolishes reactivity with the antiserum to substance P but permits reactivity with the antiserum to neurokinin A. The amino acid sequence of cod and trout neurokinin A is the same (His-Lys-Ile-Asn-Ser-Phe-Val-Gly-Leu-MetNH2) and shows two substitutions (Thr3----Ile and Asp4----Asn) compared with mammalian neurokinin A. The data indicate that nervous tissue of teleost fish contain tachykinins that are analogous to the peptides found in mammalian tissues.
Improved PSD and CID on a MALDI TOFMS.	The influence of several instrument-operating parameters on the product-ion resolution and mass accuracy in matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight (TOF) post-source decay (PSD) and collision-induced dissociation (CID) experiments is reported. Voltages commonly applied to the reflectron for PSD and CID experiments were found to be non-ideal; optimization of these voltages resulted in better resolution across each segment of the measured PSD spectrum. Mass resolution, calculated as M/DeltaM (FWHM) for the product-ion peaks, was as high as 2500. Additionally, precursor-ion selection and segment mass range setup were each found to have dramatic influences on product-ion mass accuracy. An understanding of the influence of these variables aided in the interpretation of (a-NH3) and (b - NH3) ions observed in the PSD/CID spectra of a number of peptides. In addition, product ions resulting from coincidence peaks in the precursor-ion selection window were found to be a general problem. With the improvements to resolution and optimization of these mass accuracy variables, the mass accuracy of product ions from MALDI TOF PSD and CID experiments was tested with several reference materials, including the peptides Substance P, bradykinin, angiotensin I, and angiotensin II and the synthetic polymers poly(methyl methacrylate) and polystyrene. The absolute error (Da) for each test material was, on average, below 0.1 Da, demonstrating a significant improvement in mass accuracy using the improved operational parameters and an extension of the use of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) as a mass calibrant for the PSD/CID spectra.
Intrinsic innervation patterns of the smooth muscle in the rumen and reticulum of lambs.	The rumen and reticulum of sheep serve as a fermentation chamber. Both compartments exhibit specific motility patterns. With developmental changes, the size of the reticulorumen dramatically increases when newborn lambs mature to adult sheep. This makes it possible to investigate the intrinsic innervation of the reticuloruminal muscles in lambs by taking the entire reticulum and rumen into account. The aim of the study was to analyse the projections and neurochemistry of myenteric neurons in the rumen and reticulum, which project to the inner or outer muscle layer, respectively. Therefore, we applied retrograde tracing with the fluorescent dye 1,1'-didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) and subsequent immunohistochemical detection of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). In both compartments innervation of both the inner and the outer muscle layer consisted mainly of cholinergic neurons (65-70%). The majority of them co-localized SP. The non-cholinergic neurons projecting to the muscle expressed immunoreactivity for VIP. Polarized innervation of the muscle layers was found neither in the rumen nor in the reticulum. Consequently, intrinsic innervation patterns for the smooth muscle layers in the rumen and reticulum differ from all gastrointestinal regions examined thus far.
Evaluation of different combinations of gated trapping, RF-only mode and trap compensation for in-field MALDI Fourier transform mass spectrometry.	MALDI, while providing advantages such as the ability to do in-depth and repeated exploration of the sample, challenges the existing performance capabilities of Fourier transform mass spectrometry (FTMS). The challenge arises because MALDI-produced ions have high mass-to-charge ratios and uncertain kinetic-energy distributions. We demonstrate that a combination of a gated trapping event, a RF-only mode pressure focusing event, and an electrically compensated trap provides a compelling advantage in meeting these challenges. Removal of any of the above combination elements significantly degrades the detection performance of substance P from 850 K resolving power at 34.9 kHz and of melittin from 278 K resolving power at 16.5 kHz when using a 3-Tesla magnet-based spectrometer.
Comparison of intranasal and transdermal estradiol on nasal mucosa in postmenopausal women.	To compare nasal symptomatology and function and local concentrations of estradiol (E2), estradiol receptor (ERalpha), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), substance P (SP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in nasal biopsies of 20 postmenopausal women complaining of paradoxical nasal stuffiness before and after treatment with intranasal or transdermal E2.
Role of substance P in hypersensitivity reactions induced by paclitaxel, an anticancer agent.	The role of substance P in adverse pulmonary reactions induced by an anticancer agent paclitaxel was investigated in rats and humans who undertook post-operative chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. In rats, paclitaxel caused a marked plasma extravasation and edema in lungs with a concomitant decrease in arterial partial oxygen pressure, which were reversed by an NK1 antagonist LY303870. Substance P level in rat plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid increased after paclitaxel injection. In 13 patients, plasma level of substance P but not histamine significantly (P < 0.05) increased during paclitaxel infusion. Therefore, substance P rather than histamine may be involved in paclitaxel hypersensitivity.
Bacillary dysentery as a causative factor of irritable bowel syndrome and its pathogenesis.	The incidence of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or functional bowel disorders (FBD) after bacillary dysentery (BD) has not been extensively evaluated, and little is known of the pathogenesis of post-infective (PI) IBS. Therefore, we investigated the incidence of IBS and FBD in a Chinese patient population who had recovered from BD. To further elucidate its pathogenesis, neuroimmunological changes, including interleukins (IL), mast cells, neuropeptides, and the relationship between mast cells and intestinal nerves, were investigated.
Phenotypic alteration of neuropeptide-containing nerve fibres in seasonal intermittent allergic rhinitis.	Allergic rhinitis (AR) is the most common allergic disease affecting the respiratory tract. Next to inflammatory changes, the airway innervation plays an important modulatory role in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Nerve fibres in the parathyroid gland of the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus): immunohistochemical and ultrastructural investigations.	We investigated the morphology and the distribution of the nerve fibres in golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) parathyroid glands using antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P, and electron microscopy. CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres were densely distributed in the interstitial tissues and the capsules of the hamster parathyroid glands. Some nerve fibres were detected in close proximity of the parathyroid chief cells. The distribution pattern for substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres was roughly the same as for CGRP-immunoreactive fibres. Ultrastructurally, we found numerous nerve fibres joining the blood vessels. Axon bundles were located adjacent to the smooth muscle cells of the arterioles. The axons formed structurally specialized neuromuscular junctions with the vascular smooth muscle cells. Some axons were in close vicinity to the parathyroid chief cells. These findings indicate that the hamster parathyroid gland contain CGRP and substance P, which may regulate the blood flow and the secretory activity of the gland.
Electron capture dissociation of polypeptides in a three-dimensional quadrupole ion trap: Implementation and first results.	The adverse influence of the radio frequency (RF) voltage on electrons has been the main obstacle for the implementation of electron capture dissociation (ECD) in three-dimensional quadrupole ion traps (3D QITs). Here we demonstrate that the use of axial magnetic field, together with the injection of low-energy (<5 eV) electrons, in the beginning of the positive RF semi-period achieves trapping of electrons for a period of time comparable with the semi-period duration. Importantly, the energy of the electrons remains low during most of the trapping period. With this technique, which we call "magnetized electrons, in-phase injection" (MEPhI), ECD and other ion-electron reactions have become possible in a 3D QIT. Initial ECD results, including single-scan data, were obtained with dications of Substance P. The observed secondary fragmentation of ECD fragments indicates that the trapped electrons are still somewhat hotter than desired.
Innervation of the porcine ciliary muscle and outflow region.	The porcine eye serves as a model to study various functions of the aqueous outflow system. To compare these data with the primate eye, a detailed investigation of the distribution of contractile properties and of the innervation of the outflow region was conducted in the porcine eye. In all quadrants of the anterior eye segment, elastic fibres connected the ciliary muscle (CM) with the well-developed scleral spur (ScS) and also partly with the corneoscleral trabecular meshwork (TM) and the loops of the collecting outflow channels. Immunohistochemistry with antibodies against smooth muscle alpha-actin revealed intense staining of the CM and some myofibroblasts in the ScS and outer TM. In addition to a few cholinergic and aminergic nerve fibres in the outflow region, numerous substance P- and calcitonin-gene related peptide-positive nerve fibres and nerve endings were found near the outflow loops of the porcine TM. Although the porcine CM serves rather as a tensor choroideae muscle than as a muscle for accommodation, the innervation and morphology of the collecting outflow channel loops and of the expanded TM between the ScS and the cornea showed close similarities to the primate eye.
Substance P and opioid peptidergic innervation of the anterior eye segment of the rat: an immunohistochemical study.	Recently discovered endogenous opioid peptides such as nociceptin are known to modulate neurotransmitter release of primary afferent neurons (especially substance P, SP) and they have also been demonstrated in peripheral nerve fibres. The aim of this study was to investigate the opioid peptidergic innervation of the anterior eye segment and to compare it with the innervation pattern of SP in order to shed light on the functional relationship between these peptides. Anterior eye segments of 20 rat eyes were cut in a tangential plane and the sections stained with antibodies against SP, nociceptin, nocistatin, endomorphin 1 and 2, leu-enkephalin and met-enkephalin. Sections of the spinal cord or brain were used as positive controls. Numerous SP-immunoreactive nerve fibres were found in the conjunctiva, cornea, episclera, trabecular meshwork, iris and ciliary body. A weak staining for met-enkephalin and leu-enkephalin could only be found in the iris and anteriormost ciliary body. Nerve fibres immunoreactive for nociceptin, nocistatin, and endomorphin 1 or 2 could not be detected in any part of the anterior eye segment. It is tempting to speculate that the opioid peptidergic innervation of the anterior ciliary body may play a role in the modulation of intraocular inflammation.
Change of dorsal horn neurochemistry in a mouse model of neuropathic cancer pain.	We investigated some neurochemical changes that take place in the spinal cord dorsal horn in a mouse model of neuropathic cancer pain. The model was produced by inoculation of Meth-A sarcoma cells to the vicinity of the sciatic nerve, which resulted in growth of a tumor mass embedding the nerve. Hind paw-lifting, a behavioral sign of spontaneous pain, was at maximum on Day 18, but decreased thereafter. The decrease was likely caused by progression of motor paralysis. On Day 18, thermal and mechanical pain thresholds of the affected paw were significantly increased. Histologically, the sciatic nerve presented damages to both unmyelinated and myelinated fibers on Day 18, which were more pronounced on Day 25. In the spinal cord, c-Fos-positive cells were significantly increased in the superficial and deep layers on Day 18. The number of c-Fos-positive cells in the superficial layer correlated with the duration of paw-lifting. The increase in c-Fos-positive cells was still present on Day 25 despite decreased paw-lifting. Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were up-regulated on Day 18 but down-regulated on Day 25. A marked up-regulation of dynorphin A (DynA) was present on Day 18 and persisted through Day 25. Our model caused progressive damage to the sciatic nerve and presented spontaneous pain-behavior while the paw became hyposensitive to mechanical and thermal stimuli. Since the up-regulation of DynA in the dorsal horn persisted and paralleled the increase in c-Fos-positive cells, the release of DynA may be associated with spontaneous pain in our model.
Increase in sensory neuropeptides surrounding the Achilles tendon in rats with adjuvant arthritis.	The Achilles tendon in rats with adjuvant arthritis was analyzed by radioimmunoassay (RIA) and semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry for the occurrence of two sensory neuropeptides, substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), and a sensory modulating peptide, galanin (GAL). The tissue concentration of SP and CGRP in the Achilles tendon and its envelope, i.e. the paratenon and bony insertion, as assessed by RIA was increased by 22% and 71%, respectively, compared to normal controls, whereas the level of GAL was unchanged. Semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry applied to different regions of the tendon in arthritic rats disclosed an increased occurrence of SP and CGRP positive nerve fibers in the paratenon and bone tendinous junction, whereas GAL fibers were only increased at the bone tendinous junction. Notably, neither neuropeptides nor inflammatory cells were seen in the tendon proper. The increased occurrence of SP and CGRP in the tendon envelope presumably reflects inflammatory actions, whereas that of GAL implies an endogenous anti-inflammatory response. The observed SP and CGRP upregulation in the paratenon and bony insertion suggests a pathophysiological role in paratenonitis and enthesitis often seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Presumably Achillodynia originates in the tendon envelope rather than the tendon proper. The observations could be used to define new pharmacological targets for mitigating symptoms from tendons in rheumatoid arthritis and possibly also in other disorders. Whether a neuronal pathogenic mechanism underlies tendon overuse disorders in non-arthritic tendinopathies and the development of degeneration, i.e. tendinosis, remains to be studied.
Aberrations of the intrinsic innervation of the anorectum in fetal rats with anorectal malformations.	Fecal accumulation, constipation, soiling, and incontinence are common sequelae after repair of anorectal malformations (ARMs) in children. It is believed that besides the abnormalities of sacral roots, certain inherent abnormalities of the myenteric plexuses may play an important role in the final outcome after definitive repair.
Age-related changes in the oestrous cycle and reproductive hormones in senescence-accelerated mouse.	To investigate age-related changes in the oestrous cycle and reproductive hormone levels in senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM), we examined these parameters in 3-, 5-, 7-, 9- and 11-month-old female SAM-prone/8 (SAMP8) and SAM-resistant/1 (SAMR1) strains. Levels of beta-endorphin (beta-EP) and substance P (SP) in the hypothalamus were also measured. The oestrous cycle and dioestrus of 9-month-old SAMP8 mice were significantly prolonged compared with age-matched SAMR1 mice. Furthermore, the concentration of serum oestradiol was lower and the level of pituitary luteinising hormone was higher in SAMP8 mice compared with SAMR1 mice. This characterises the hypothalamus-pituitary-ovary (HPO) axis of the SAMP8 strain as hypergonadotropic-hypogonad. The levels of beta-EP and SP in the SAMP8 hypothalamus were lower than in the SAMR1 hypothalamus. These results indicate that the function of the HPO axis in SAMP8 mice declines early and this may be attributed, in part, to the decline in beta-EP and SP concentrations in the hypothalamus.
Neurogenic factors in the impaired healing of diabetic foot ulcers.	We hypothesize that the reduced innervation of skin can be observed both in clinically neuropathic and non-neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers and can contribute to low inflammatory cell infiltration.
Identification and neuropeptide content of trigeminal neurons innervating the rat gingivomucosal tissue.	The purpose of this study was to identify and characterise the neuropeptide content and the size of trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons innervating the rat gingivomucosal tissue.
Immunohistochemical study on the neuroendocrine system of the digestive tract of turbot, Scophthalmus maximus (L.), infected by Enteromyxum scophthalmi (Myxozoa).	In recent years a new parasite, causing severe losses, has been detected in farmed turbot, Scophthalmus maximus (L.), in Northwestern Spain. Dead fish showed emaciation and cachexia caused by severe necrotizing enteritis, which affected all areas of the digestive tract. The parasite was classified as a myxosporean and named Enteromyxum scophthalmi. This study was designed to assess the response of the turbot neuroendocrine system against E. scophthalmi infection. Immunohistochemical tests were applied to sections of the gastrointestinal tract of uninfected and E. scophthalmi-infected turbot, and the presence of cholecystokinin (CCK-8), serotonin (5-HT), substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) were documented. A higher abundance of both endocrine epithelial cells (ECs) and nerve cell bodies and fibres for CCK-8, 5-HT and SP were recorded in the gastrointestinal tract of infected turbot, whereas VIP-like substance decreased. The results indicate that E. scophthalmi infection in turbot induced changes in the neuroendocrine system, which may cause alterations in gut motility, electrolyte and fluid secretion, and vascular and immune functions.
Arthrogenic lameness of the fetlock: synovial fluid markers of inflammation and cartilage turnover in relation to clinical joint pain.	Joint pain is one of the most common causes of lameness in the horse but its pathogenesis is poorly understood.
A constant-momentum/energy-selector time-of-flight mass spectrometer.	A matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer has been built with an ion source that can be operated in either constant-energy or constant-momentum acceleration modes. A decreasing electric field distribution in the ion-accelerating region makes it possible to direct ions onto a space-focal plane in either modes of operation. Ions produced in the constant-momentum mode have velocities and, thus, flight times that are linearly dependent on mass and kinetic energies that are inversely dependent on mass. The linear mass dispersion doubles mass resolving power of ions accelerated with space-focusing conditions in constant-momentum mode. The mass-dependent kinetic energy is exploited to disperse ions according to mass in a simple kinetic energy filter constructed from two closely spaced, oblique ion reflectors. Focusing velocity of ions of the same mass can substantially improve ion selection for subsequent post source decay or tandem time-of-flight analyses.
Intrinsic pancreatic nerves after mechanical denervation of the extrinsic pancreatic nerves in dogs.	Little is known about the influence of cutting the extrinsic pancreatic nerves on the morphology and function of the intrapancreatic nerves in dogs. For this reason, intrapancreatic nerves of mongrel dogs were studied, using electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry, after truncal vagotomy, after celiac and superior mesenteric ganglionectomy, and after a combination of both operations, i.e., removing all extrinsic nerves of the pancreas. Dogs with intact extrinsic and intrinsic pancreatic nerves served as controls. Studies were performed 1-2 weeks and up to 5 months after one or both denervation procedures. For immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies the animals were perfused with glutaraldehyde-formaldehyde-picric acid solution and the tissue was embedded in Epon or paraffin. Both immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies revealed that signs of degenerating intrapancreatic nerves occurred only in the early phase (up to 30 days) after operation. After 60 days, hypertrophy of pancreatic nerve fibers was observed. The most striking finding was that the integrity of the intrapancreatic ganglia and nerves was almost preserved after complete extrinsic denervation. In controls there was a strong intrapancreatic innervation with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), substance P (SP), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) nerves. SP and NPY-nerves significantly decreased after the different denervation procedures, but the other peptidergic nerves were not altered by truncal vagotomy, ganglionectomy, or the combination of both procedures. We conclude that the dog pancreas contains extensive intrinsic peptidergic nerves, which, with the exception of SP and NPY-nerves, are greatly independent of the integrity of the extrinsic nerves.
Sexually dimorphic distribution of substance P in specific anterior pituitary cell populations.	Substance P (SP) immunoreactivity is detectable in the rat pituitary by RIA; however, immunolocalization has been difficult. We used a sensitive immunogold silver-enhancement staining technique to cytochemically locate SP in the gland. SP-immunoreactive (SP-ir) cells were seen in anterior pituitary (AP), and occasional SP-ir fibers and terminals were seen in both AP and posterior pituitary. Colocalization studies showed the vast majority of SP-ir cells in the male AP to be also immunoreactive for growth hormone (GH). These GH/SP-ir cells represent approximately 23% of the somatotroph population in the male. SP-ir cells did not colocalize with lactotrophs, gonadotrophs, or corticotrophs; however, rare thyroid-stimulating hormone/SP-ir cells were found in the male AP. Comparisons of pituitaries from males and females revealed that females have 70% fewer SP-ir cells and that only approximately 6% of the somatotrophs in the female express SP. This sexual dimorphism is diminished in 6-day ovariectomized rats because this treatment increases the GH/SP-ir cell population 3-fold. This result suggests that the previously reported estrogen-induced decrease in SP gene and peptide expression in the pituitary occurs, at least in part, in a subpopulation of somatotrophs. To test this hypothesis, distribution of SP-ir cells was examined in pituitaries from estrogen- and oil-treated ovariectomized rats. Estrogen reduced the percentage of somatotrophs with SP immunoreactivity by 70% compared with ovariectomized oil-treated controls, indicating that estrogen most likely regulates SP levels in the pituitary by acting on a subpopulation of somatotrophs to suppress SP expression. Estrogen does not appear to alter SP immunoreactivity that is detected in the additional population of SP cells that colocalize with thyroid-stimulating hormone. These SP-expressing thyrotrophs were seen 6-fold more frequently in the female than in the male pituitary, regardless of steroid status. These studies reveal that males have more total SP-ir cells in the AP than do females and that there is a sexually dimorphic pattern of SP distribution in the gland. Males have a higher percentage of SP-ir GH cells, whereas females have more SP-ir thyrotrophs than do males. Identification of independently regulated SP-ir somatotroph and thyrotroph populations provides a basis for investigating the roles of SP in autocrine or paracrine regulation of pituitary hormone secretion.
Nerve growth factor prevents toxic neuropathy in mice.	Taxol is a promising new antitumor drug with therapeutic use that is limited by a toxic sensory neuropathy. Taxol is also cytotoxic to dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro, but this effect is prevented by cotreatment with the trophic protein, nerve growth factor. We sought to develop an animal model and then to determine whether nerve growth factor can prevent taxol neuropathy in vivo. Administration of taxol to mice resulted in a profound sensory neuropathy characterized by decreases in dorsal root ganglion content of the peptide neurotransmitter, substance P, elevated threshold to thermally induced pain, and diminished amplitude of the compound action potential in the caudal nerve. Coadministration of nerve growth factor prevented all of these signs of neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that administration of nerve growth factor may prevent certain toxic sensory neuropathies.
Rat small intestinal morphology and tissue regulatory peptides: effects of high dietary fat.	Sprague-Dawley rats (3 weeks old) were fed on isoenergetic diets in which 40% of the total energy was provided as fat either in the form of butter (high saturated fat), olive oil (high monounsaturated fat) or maize oil (high polyunsaturated fat), with one group on low-fat (10% of total energy) standard diet as a control. Animals were killed after 8.4 (se 0.8) weeks by cardiac puncture. Similar pieces of jejunum and ileum were prepared for morphometric studies. Extracts of tissue from the proximal and distal segments of the whole small intestine from four animals per group were assayed using established techniques for enteroglucagon, motilin, neurotensin, somatostatin, substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). We found that maize oil and olive oil increased villus height: crypt depth ratio in both jejunum and ileum. Maize oil increased tissue concentrations of somatostatin (P less than 0.05) and substance P (P less than 0.005) in the proximal segment. Both maize oil and olive oil increased tissue concentrations of neurotensin and substance P (P less than 0.005) in the distal segments. These observations may explain the improvement of intestinal absorption of fluid following supplementation with polyunsaturated fat.
Effects of capsaicin on mechanical, cellular, and mediator responses to antigen in sensitized guinea pigs.	To assess the role of tachykinins (TKs) in immediate hypersensitivity allergic reactions in guinea pigs (GPs), we compared airway mechanics and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cell and inflammatory mediator profiles in three groups of GPs after ovalbumin aerosol challenge: (1) saline-sensitized, noncapsaicinized (control) (n = 9); (2) ovalbumin-sensitized, noncapsaicinized (OS) (n = 9); (3) ovalbumin-sensitized capsaicinized (OSC) (n = 9). Lung resistance (RL), dynamic elastance (EL), BAL cell counts, histamine, and eicosanoid mediator levels were measured at baseline on Day 1, and then on Day 14 after aerosolized antigen challenge. We found significant increases on Day 14 compared with Day 1 in the following: (1) postchallenge RL and EL in OS and OSC GPs, but not in control GPs; (2) BAL total cells and red cells in OS and OSC GPs; (3) BAL prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) thromboxane B2 (TxB2), sulfidopeptide leukotrienes (LTC4/D4/E4), and histamine in OS and OSC animals. Further, when data from all GPs were considered in distributed fashion, we noted positive linear correlations between peak postchallenge RL versus BAL concentrations of each of the following: PGD2, PGF2 alpha, TxB2, LTC4/D4/E4, leukotriene B4 (LTB4), and histamine. We found no significant differences in mediator or cellular responses between OS and OSC GPs. To verify that our method of capsaicinization resulted in TK depletion from the lungs of OSC GPs, substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) lung tissue levels were measured by ELISA in seven other animals, four treated with capsaicin using the same protocol and three treated with diluent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Substance P and neurokinin A in human nasal mucosa.	The tachykinins substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) were studied in human inferior turbinate nasal mucosa by radioimmunoassay, immunohistochemistry, and autoradiography and for their effect upon mucus release in an in vitro culture system in order to infer their potential functions in the upper respiratory tract. Similar amounts of SP (1.03 +/- 0.12 pmol/g wet weight; mean +/- SEM; n = 26) and NKA (0.76 +/- 0.23; n = 7) were found. NKA and SP immunoreactive nerve fibers were found in the walls of arterioles, venules, and sinusoids and as individual fibers in gland acini, near the basement membrane, and in the epithelium. [125I]SP bound to arterioles, venules, and glands. [125I]NKA bound only to arterioles. In short-term explant culture of fragments of human nasal mucosa, both 1 microM SP and 1 microM NKA stimulated release of [3H]glucosamine-labeled respiratory glycoconjugates. These results indicate that SP and NKA have similar distributions in nociceptive sensory nerves in human nasal mucosa. The distribution of [125I]SP binding sites is consistent with a role for SP as a vasodilator and mucous secretagogue. The presence of [125I] NKA binding sites on vessels suggests a primary role for NKA in regulating vasomotor tone.
Development of striatal compartmentalization following pre- or postnatal dopamine depletion.	Nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) projections terminate in distinct patches during the late prenatal and early postnatal period in the rat. During the first postnatal week, patches of DA fibers overlap with clusters of striatal neurons that share several identified characteristics. The early segregation of striatal cell types into either these patches or the surrounding matrix becomes a permanent organizational feature of the striatum. In order to determine whether the heterogeneous distribution of DA influences the formation of cellular patches, the developmental organization of chemically identifiable cell types was examined in normal rats and in rats DA depleted as infants (0 or 3 d) or in utero (embryonic days 17-18). During the first postnatal week, corresponding patches of DA afferents and substance P (SP)-immunoreactive neurons existed in the striatum of normal animals, and AChE-positive zones overlapped these patches in the lateral striatum. Injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the lateral ventricles of fetal or infant rats produced a dramatic loss of striatal DA terminals. Neither the patchy distribution of SP-immunoreactive neurons nor the distinctive pattern of AChE staining present during the first 2 postnatal weeks was disrupted. During the third postnatal week, cells immunoreactive for leu-enkephalin or calbindin-D28k were confined to the matrix compartment, and this compartmentalization was also not noticeably changed by pre- or postnatal DA depletion. In adult animals, overlapping patches of leu-enkephalin- and SP-immunoreactive fibers were observed, regardless of whether any DA terminals remained. Thus, the basic organization of the striatal patch and matrix compartments develops normally in the absence of DA innervation through much of the formative period. Although these observations do not completely dismiss the possibility that the first DA afferents to appear in the striatal primordia influence contracted striatal cells to develop the patch phenotype, they suggest that the patchy distribution of DA afferents may be secondary to the early clustering of striatal neurons forming the patch compartment.
Pathways of parasympathetic and sensory cerebrovascular nerves in monkeys.	Using immunohistochemistry, we studied the origins and pathways of parasympathetic and sensory nerve fibers to the pial arteries in four squirrel monkeys. Following its application to the surface of the middle cerebral artery, the retrograde axonal tracer True Blue accumulated in parasympathetic neurons of the sphenopalatine ganglion and the internal carotid ganglion. The latter is strategically located where the internal carotid artery enters the cranium. Fibers from the sphenopalatine ganglion reach the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus region after running as rami orbitales. Before reaching the internal carotid artery, the fibers bypass aberrant sphenopalatine ganglia, with the most distant, the cavernous ganglion, being located in the cavernous sinus region. True Blue also accumulated in sensory neurons of the ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the trigeminal ganglion and in sensory neurons of the internal carotid ganglion. Fibers from the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal ganglion reach the internal carotid artery as a branch through the cavernous sinus, bypassing the cavernous ganglion. Fibers from the maxillary division also bypass the cavernous ganglion after reaching it via a recurrent branch of the orbitociliary nerve. Thus, the cavernous ganglion forms a confluence zone for parasympathetic and sensory fibers in the region. In addition, parasympathetic and sensory fibers leave the confluence zone to follow the abducent and trochlear nerves backward to the basilar artery and tentorium cerebelli, respectively. Clinical implications are discussed.
Fine structure of synapses and retinal innervation of substance P and adenosin deaminase containing neurons in the superior colliculus of the rat.	The fine structure of substance P (SP) and adenosine deaminase (ADA) immunoreactive structures in synaptic contacts localized to the superficial layers of the superior colliculus of the rat was investigated by means of immunoelectron microscopy. We also examined the possibility of retinal innervation of SP- and ADA- containing neurons by immunohistochemistry after degeneration of retinal terminals caused by enucleation. SP-like immunoreactive presynaptic terminals of the stratum griseum superficiale (SGS) formed both asymmetric and symmetric synaptic contacts. Presynaptic dendritelike structures were also observed. SP immunoreactive postsynaptic elements made contacts with terminals showing diverse features. ADA-like immunoreactive structures were seen only as postsynaptic elements to different kinds of nonimmunoreactive terminals and were mostly localized in the ventral third of the SGS and the dorsalmost stratum opticum (SO). After enucleation, degenerating retinal terminals were found to form synaptic contacts with SP and ADA immunoreactive structures. The highest number of such degenerating terminals on ADA immunoreactive structures was observed 2 days after retinal denervation, very few being seen after 5 days. These degenerating terminals were restricted to the ventral SGS and dorsal SO. SP immunoreactive structures postsynaptic to degenerating retinal terminals were most numerous 5 days after enucleation and mainly localized in the dorsal SGS. Occasionally, SP immunoreactive dendritelike processes forming synapses with degenerating retinal terminals were simultaneously presynaptic to other nonimmunoreactive profiles, defining, therefore, serial synapses. The present results suggest that SP-I and ADA-I collicular neurons may be part of distinct channels carrying visual information to the lateral posterior and lateral geniculate nuclei of the thalamus, respectively.
Perivascular innervation of the cerebral arteries in spontaneously hypertensive rats--an immunohistochemical study.	Perivascular innervation in cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats and of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats was studied. Adrenergic nerve fibers and neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasoconstrictor nerves, were denser in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats than those of Wistar-Kyoto rats. In contrast, cholinergic nerve fibers and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasodilator nerves, remained unchanged in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats, as compared with findings in the Wistar-Kyoto rats. Thus, not only adrenergic nerve fibers but also neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers may play an important role in preventing the disruption of the blood-brain barrier and the development of hypertensive encephalopathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
Immunoreactive neuropeptides in nerves in ligamentous tissue. An experimental neuroimmunohistochemical study.	A search for neuropeptide nerves in the healing of the experimentally ruptured medial collateral ligament (MCL) of the rabbit knee used specific antisera to the neuropeptides Substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and galanin. Sutured and unsutured MCLs were studied four and 14 weeks postoperatively. Both fluorescent thin nerve strands and small dotlike nerve terminals were regularly seen in the healing zone and in the adjacent normal ligamentous tissue, suggesting innervation of such structures by neuropeptide nerves. All three neuropeptides were more abundant in sutured ligaments than in unsutured ligaments, which may suggest beneficial effects of the apposition of the torn ligament ends on local nerve regeneration. Active involvement of the neural elements in the healing process was also suggested by kinetic studies showing a decrease in Substance P and CGRP staining as well as an increase in galanin staining during the study period. These changes in the periphery parallel the reactive changes earlier described in the dorsal root ganglion and dorsal horn cells occurring after a peripheral nerve injury. This may depend on the antidromic transport to the periphery of neuropeptides synthesized in the central nervous system. This experimental neuroimmunohistochemical mapping study and the known effects of neuropeptides on blood vessels, macrophages, and fibroblasts should stimulate further work on the role of innervation in ligamentous healing.
Chronic treatment with SCH-23390, a selective dopamine D1 receptor blocker decreases preprotachykinin-A mRNA levels in nucleus tractus solitarii of the rabbit: role in respiratory control.	Acute intravenous administration of the selective D1 receptor blocker SCH-23390 resulted in an enhanced respiratory motor output as evidenced by the phrenic nerve activity, whereas local perfusion into the region of nucleus tractus solitarii had no effect. The increase in phrenic nerve activity was accompanied by a concomitant increase in the release of substance P in the region of nucleus tractus solitarii as measured by in vivo microdialysis technique. Chronic administration of SCH-23390 via subcutaneously implanted Alzet mini osmotic pumps, significantly decreased the level of preprotachykinin-A mRNA in the region of respiratory relay neurons in nucleus tractus solitarii but was without effect in the ventral medullary surface structure, wherein the central chemoreceptors are thought to be located. A smaller, but significant decrease was also seen in the striatum. The results suggest that chronic treatment with SCH-23390 leads to a disinhibition of an inhibitory dopaminergic input to the neurons in nucleus tractus solitarii from a suprapontine level, which may account for a subsequent inhibition of tachykinin-containing neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii, the relay station for respiratory reflexes.
Hypothalamic regulatory peptides in obese and lean Zucker rats.	1. Hypothalamic concentrations of nine peptides with experimental effects on energy balance were compared in obese (fa/fa) and lean (Fa/?) male Zucker rats. To determine whether any peptide differences between obese and lean rats might be due to the overweight condition per se, separate groups of obese rats were food-restricted to reduce their body weight to lean values. 2. Concentrations of neuromedin B, a bombesin-like peptide, in the central hypothalamus were significantly higher in obese than in lean rats. This difference was not affected in food-restricted obese rats. 3. Hypothalamic levels of neuropeptide Y, an extremely potent central appetite stimulant, were similar in lean and freely fed obese rats but central hypothalamic levels of neuropeptide Y rose significantly in food-restricted obese rats. 4. These findings suggest that disturbances in hypothalamic neuromedin B concentrations may be involved in the obesity syndrome of the fa/fa Zucker rat. Increased central hypothalamic levels of neuropeptide Y in food-restricted rats suggest that this peptide may help to defend body weight by stimulating eating after weight loss.
Alterations of the intestinal innervation in mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni.	Schistosomiasis mansoni is a parasitic disease in which granulomas form around schistosome eggs in the liver and intestines. The purpose of this study was to determine the alterations in the intrinsic innervation of the distal ileum and proximal colon resulting from schistosomiasis. Using murine schistosomiasis mansoni, we examined light microscopic preparations stained with osmium-zinc iodide or the dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide: nitro BT oxidoreductase (NADH) method. We also examined specific populations of peptidergic nerves (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and substance P) using an avidin-biotin complex (ABC) immunohistochemical technique. We found that granulomas focally destroyed the enteric nerves. Occasionally nerves were found within granulomas, particularly at the periphery of the lesions. Nerve cell bodies close to granulomas had altered staining, which included increased staining for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The distribution of nerve injury varied between the 2 enteric segments studied. In the distal ileum, the principal injury was to the myenteric plexus; whereas, the submucous and mucosal plexuses were predominantly damaged in the proximal colon. The physiologic significance of this injury to the enteric nerves requires elucidation.
Capsaicin enhances allergic contact dermatitis in the guinea pig.	Guinea pigs were sensitized to dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) by the intracutaneous route and challenged epicutaneously on the flanks. The intensity of the allergic contact dermatitis was evaluated by inspection and palpation as well as by wet weight determination. With the purpose of diminishing tissue neuropeptides, and substance P in particular, the animals were treated with capsaicin either between induction and challenge, or before sensitization. In comparison with controls, the contact dermatitis was enhanced in both groups of animals treated with capsaicin.
Guinea pig pancreatic ganglia: projections, transmitter content, and the type-specific localization of monoamine oxidase.	The ganglionated plexus of the guinea pig pancreas was investigated by using histochemical, immunocytochemical, and tract-tracing methods in order to determine whether pancreatic ganglia are analogous to the ganglia of the enteric nervous system (ENS). Three lines of evidence suggest that the ganglia of the pancreas appear to be interconnected with one another, as are enteric ganglia. First, microinjections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold into individual pancreatic ganglia labeled the perikarya of neurons in distant pancreatic ganglia, whereas no labeling of neurons was observed if injections were placed in the connective tissue adjacent to pancreatic ganglia. Second, when the intercalating dye DiI was microinjected into single pancreatic ganglia in fixed tissues, DiI-labeled terminals were found in additional pancreatic ganglia. Finally, microinjections of the beta subunit of cholera toxin into individual pancreatic ganglia yielded similar results. The ganglionated plexus of the pancreas also expresses a diversity of transmitter content and cell type-specific localization of monoamine oxidase (MAO) that is analogous to the ENS. In common with guinea pig enteric ganglia, pancreatic ganglia contain highly varicose 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-immunoreactive axons and intrinsic neuropeptide Y (NPY)- and substance P (SP)-immunoreactive neurons. The vast majority, but not all, of SP-immunoreactive fibers in the pancreatic parenchyma also contain calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity. MAO-B was the primary type of MAO found in the intrinsic elements of the pancreas where it was located in neurons and fibers in the pancreatic parenchyma. In common with serotoninergic enteric neurons, MAO-B immunoreactivity was not found at the LM level in pancreatic serotoninergic neurites. In contrast, NPY- and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive perivascular axons were found to contain abundant MAO-A, but no MAO-B immunoreactivity. It is concluded that MAO-B immunoreactivity is characteristic of a portion of the intrinsic innervation of the pancreas, whereas MAO-A immunoreactivity is a marker for the extrinsic sympathetic innervation of the pancreas. Because of its receipt of a direct neural innervation from myenteric ganglia of the bowel (Kirchgessner and Gershon, '90: J. Neurosci 10:1626-1642), similar connections, transmitter content and localization of type-specific MAO, the ganglionated plexus of the pancreas should be regarded as an extension or subset of the ENS.
An immunocytochemical study of cutaneous innervation and the distribution of neuropeptides and protein gene product 9.5 in man and commonly employed laboratory animals.	The cutaneous nerves of rat, cat, guinea pig, pig, and man were studied by immunocytochemistry to compare the staining potency of general neural markers and to investigate the density of nerves containing peptides. Antiserum to protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) stained more nerves than antisera to neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin or histochemistry for acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Peptidergic axons showed species variation in density of distribution and were most abundant in pig and fewest in man. However, the specific peptides in nerves innervating the various structures were consistent between species. Nerve fibers immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and/or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) predominated in all the species; those immunoreactive to tachykinins (substance P and neurokinin A [NKA]) and neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) were less abundant. Neonatal capsaicin, at the doses employed in this study, destroyed approximately 70% of CGRP- and tachykinin-immunoreactive sensory axons; whereas 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) at the doses employed resulted in a complete loss of NPY and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity without affecting VIP, CGRP, and tachykinins. Thus, this study confirms that antiserum to PGP 9.5 is the most suitable and practical marker for the demonstration of cutaneous nerves. Species differences exist in the density of peptidergic innervation, but apparently not for specific peptides. Not all sensory axons immunoreactive for CGRP and substance P/NKA are capsaicin-sensitive. However, all sympathetic TH- and NPY-immunoreactive axons are totally responsive to 6-OHDA; but no change was seen in VIP-immunoreactive axons, suggesting some demarcation of cutaneous adrenergic and cholinergic sympathetic fibers.
Distribution of substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide in the human liver: light and electron immunoperoxidase methods of observation.	The localization of substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in 12 normal human liver tissues was examined by light and electron immunohistochemistry using immunoperoxidase methods. SP and VIP immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed around portal veins, bile ducts, and hepatic arteries in portal areas, along sinusoids and hepatocytes in hepatic lobules, and around central veins. More SP and VIP immunoreactive nerve fibers were present in the portal areas than in other regions. Moreover, SP and VIP containing nerve endings were localized close to myofibroblasts, Ito cells, fibroblasts and endothelial cells of blood vessels, and sinusoids. The results suggested that part of the innervation of the human liver may be related to the contraction and relaxation of the cells close to nerve endings, and to the regulation of hemodynamic processes by the neurotransmitters such as SP and VIP at the hepatic lobular level.
Significance of substance P- and enkephalin-peptide systems in the male genital tract.	The plexi of the male reproductive tract have components of both the autonomic and sensory nervous systems. Rat epididymis was found to be a rich source of substance P. Substance P levels in the epididymis were higher by about 2.8 and 19.3 times than those in the prostate and seminal vesicles, respectively. Seminal vesicles were found to be a rich source of enkephalins. They had about 2.9 and 2.6 times higher leucine enkephalin levels than epididymis and prostate, respectively. Human seminal plasma contained about 47 times higher levels of leucine enkephalin than substance P. Using the split ejaculate technique, it has been demonstrated that early fractions of the human ejaculate contain fluids from prostate (and possibly epididymis), whereas later fractions represent seminal vesicle secretions. A low exogenous concentration of substance P (400 nM) increased sperm motility, whereas leucine enkephalin (100 microM) depressed it. Substance P (1-10 micrograms/mL) and muscarinic agonists enhanced the adrenergic transmission of the rat vas deferens to electrical stimulation. Leucine enkephalin (1-10 micrograms/mL) depressed adrenergic transmission and antagonized the effects of substance P and muscarinic agonists. These studies suggest that substance P-like tachykinins may play a role in sperm maturation, in expulsion of fluid from the epididymis, and in initiation of motility, whereas leucine enkephalin-like peptides may contribute to the orgasmic experience and detumescence.
Peptidergic nerve terminals associated with the central lacteal lymphatics in the ileal villi of dogs.	Nerve fibers in the villi of the canine ileum were studied with special reference to their relation to the central lacteal. Immunohistochemically demonstrable nerve fibers containing substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were rather more numerous in the villi of the ileum than in those of the duodenum, as observed in our previous study (Ichikawa et al., 1991). They were distributed beneath the epithelium and associated with smooth muscle fibers. Besides these localizations, immunoreactive fibers were gathered, especially at the middle of the height of the villus, close to the endothelial cells of the central lacteal. This particular distribution of nerves was more evident in the ileum than in the duodenum. Electron microscope observation indicated beaded fibers containing large cored (peptidergic) and small clear vesicles coursing closely under the lacteal endothelium, partly intercalated by a basement membrane and partly in direct contact. The nerve fibers often penetrated the endothelial cell, being directly surrounded by its cytoplasm. Although the above-described findings essentially coincide with our previous observations in canine duodenum (Ichikawa et al., 1991), the present study in the ileum demonstrated occasional nerve fibers protruding into the lacteal lumen with a knob-like swelling. It is suggested that the SP and CGRP-containing nerves in problem might be sensory in nature, possibly monitoring mechanical information from the lumen and wall of the central lacteal. At the same time, these nerves are suggested to be secretory in nature, releasing the peptides to exert unknown effects upon the lacteal wall and its vicinity, presumably in response to luminal and mural stimuli.
Substance P-immunoreactive neurons in the retina of two lizards.	The dendritic morphology and retinal distribution of substance P(SP)-immunoreactive neurons was determined in two Australian lizard species Pogona vitticeps and Varanus gouldii, by using immunohistochemistry on retinal wholemounts and sectioned materials. In both species, two classes of SP-immunoreactive neurons were described in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and classified as amacrine cells (types A and B). Type A amacrine cells had large somata and wide-field, bistratified dendrites branching in sublaminas 1 and 5 of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). Their morphology and retinal distribution differed between the two species. Type B amacrine cells in both species had small somata and small-field dendritic branching. A population of SP-immunoreactive neurons with classical ganglion cell morphology were identified in the ganglion cell layer (GCL). Immunostained ganglion cells occurred in larger numbers of Varanus gouldii than in Pogona vitticeps. In both species type B SP cells were the most numerous and were estimated to be about 60,000-70,000. They were distributed non-uniformly with a high density band across the horizontal meridian of the retina, from where the density decreased towards the dorsal and ventral retinal margins. In both species type A amacrine cells occurred in small numbers distributed sparsely in the peripheral retina. The faint immunostaining of SP-immunoreactive neurons in the GCL, did not allow us to reliably determine their numbers and retinal distribution. The functional significance of SP-immunoreactive amacrine and ganglion cells in the lizard retina remains to be determined.
Substance P immunoreactivity in the rat interpeduncular nucleus: synaptic interactions between substance P-positive profiles and choline acetyltransferase- or glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive structures.	The subnuclear and synaptic distribution of substance P immunoreactivity was examined in the rat interpeduncular nucleus at the light and electron microscope level. The nucleus possessed a prominent substance P-immunoreactive axonal plexus in the lateral and dorsomedial subnuclei, and in the dorsal cap of the rostral subnucleus. The density of substance P-immunoreactive axons in the remaining subnuclear divisions was sparse to moderate. Terminals of immunoreactive axons contained spherical vesicles and formed asymmetric contacts on dendritic processes exclusively. Immunoreactive neurons, restricted to the rostral subnucleus, possessed long, sparsely branched dendrites. Unlabelled terminals containing either spherical or pleomorphic vesicles contacted substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles. Axodendritic and axosomatic synapses containing substance P immunoreactivity pre- and postsynaptically were not observed. Ultrastructural evidence for synaptic relationships between substance P-containing profiles and those containing either choline acetyltransferase or glutamate decarboxylase was obtained by means of double antigen immunohistochemistry. Terminals of fasciculus retroflexus axons stained for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles. Few substance P-positive dendrites in the rostral subnucleus received terminals possessing glutamate decarboxylase activity. Unlabelled terminals containing either spherical or pleomorphic vesicles contacted substance P- and glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive dendritic profiles simultaneously. Terminals possessing either substance P or glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity formed synaptic contacts with dendritic processes of neurons in the lateral subnucleus. Many of the neurons within this subnuclear division contained glutamate decarboxylase. This study provides direct evidence of synaptic relationships between choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons and substance P-immunoreactive dendritic profiles, and between substance P-positive axons and glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive dendrites. These findings reveal that two types of transmitter-specific axons of the fasciculus retroflexus innervate neuronal populations of the interpeduncular nucleus stained immunohistochemically for either substance P or glutamate decarboxylase.
Distribution, morphology and number of monoamine-synthesizing and substance P-containing neurons in the human dorsal raphe nucleus.	The distribution, morphology and number of serotonin-, catecholamine- and substance P-containing neurons in the human dorsal raphe nucleus were studied. Parallel series of sections were prepared from 10 human brainstems obtained at autopsy from patients without neurological disease aged between 42 and 88 years. The neurons were identified using immunohistochemistry with antibodies raised against phenylalanine hydroxylase (tryptophan hydroxylase-containing, serotonin neurons), tyrosine hydroxylase (catecholamine neurons) and substance P. A reference series of Nissl-stained sections was also prepared and data published separately were used to delineate the subnuclear divisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus and to establish the total number of neurons in each subnucleus. The following principal findings emerged. (1) Serotonin-synthesizing neurons are present in all regions of the dorsal raphe nucleus and their total number is 165,000 +/- 34,000. The same types of neurons as those seen in Nissl material characterize each of the five subnuclei (caudal, dorsal, ventral, ventrolateral and interfascicular). (2) Substance P-containing neurons mostly occupy the rostral part of the nucleus and their number is 74,600 +/- 17,600. (3) Catecholamine cells are only found in the rostral part of the dorsal raphe nucleus and their number is 5600 +/- 3400. (4) In the ventral and interfascicular subnuclei the combined number of serotonin-synthesizing and substance P-containing neurons exceeds the total number of Nissl-stained neurons suggesting that serotonin and substance P co-exist in a substantial part of the cell population of the dorsal raphe nucleus. This is further supported by the highly similar morphology and size of these neurons. It is concluded that there are demonstrable chemical differences between the various subregions of the human dorsal raphe nucleus. These differences are in harmony with the results of hodological studies in animals, which have demonstrated differential projection pathways emerging from this nucleus.
Identification and immunohistochemistry of cholinergic and non-cholinergic circular muscle motor neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine.	Motor neurons which innervate the circular muscle layer of the guinea-pig small intestine were retrogradely labelled, in vitro, with the carbocyanine dye, DiI, applied to the deep muscular plexus. By combining retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry, the chemical coding of motor neurons was investigated. Five classes of neuron could be distinguished on the basis of the co-localization of immunoreactivity for the different antigens; the five classes were also characterized by different lengths and polarities of their axonal projections and by their cell body shapes. Two classes with local or orally directed axons were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and substance P and are likely to be cholinergic excitatory motor neurons. Two other classes had anally directed axons; they were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and are likely to be inhibitory motor neurons. A small proportion of neurons with short projections to the circular muscle were immunoreactive for neither substance P nor for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, but are likely to be cholinergic. The morphological and histochemical identification of excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons provides a neuroanatomical basis for the final motor pathways involved in the polarized reflex motor activity of the gut.
An immunocytochemical study of the development of the olfactory system in the three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus L., Teleostei).	Antisera against a variety of substances have been found to produce an identical immunoreaction in the developing olfactory system of a teleost, the three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The label is localized in the olfactory placode, the olfactory nerve and those parts of the secondary olfactory tracts which constitute the dorsal descending fascicles and the ventral descending fibers of the medial olfactory tract. The label was first detected 3 days after fertilization (3D) in the olfactory placode where labeled supporting cells were observed. At 4D, the label was observed at the site of the developing olfactory bulbs. At 7D, the olfactory placode lost the direct contact with the brain and the labeled olfactory nerve became visible. At the same time, the medial olfactory tract emerged from the bulbs, and contacts with cells in the nucleus of the terminal nerve were observed. The development of the medial olfactory tract proceeded caudally, and by the end of 10D, the olfactory tract reached the periventricular hypothalamus. Pre-absorption of the antisera with the respective antigens did not abolish the capacity of the antisera to produce the label. The immunoreaction is thus not specific for the antigens against which the antisera have been raised. Yet the label produced by the immunoreaction is an extremely reliable marker for the primary olfactory tract, and the only existing marker by which secondary olfactory tracts can be visualized.
The distribution and origin of substance P immunoreactive nerve fibres in the rat conjunctiva.	Indirect immunohistochemistry was used to examine the presence and origin of substance P immunoreactive nerve fibres in the rat conjunctiva. Fluorescent substance P immunoreactive nerve fibres were visualized both in the epithelium and stroma, their number being higher in the stroma where they were associated with blood vessels, the smooth muscle of Müller and the Meibomian glands. Ten to twenty percent of the ganglion cells in the trigeminal ganglion were immunoreactive to substance P, most of them being small in size. Sensory denervation by electrocoagulating the ophthalmic and maxillary branches of the trigeminal nerve caused a complete disappearance of the epithelial fibres and greatly reduced the number of the stromal fibres. These results indicate that the majority of the demonstrated fibres are sensory nerves originating from the trigeminal ganglion. Since sympathectomy had no detectable effect on the number or distribution of substance P immunoreactive nerve fibres, and since some of the fibres remained after sensory denervation it is suggested that at least some of the remaining fibres could be of parasympathetic origin.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, neurotensin-, substance P-, gastrin-releasing peptide-, calcitonin-, calcitonin gene related peptide-, and somatostatin-like immunoreactivities in human parathyroid glands.	We have found vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-, neurotensin-, substance P-, gastrin-releasing peptide-, calcitonin-, calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP-2)-, and somatostatin-like immunoreactivities in extracts of sporadic human parathyroid adenomas (n = 18). The content of CGRP-2, substance P, and somatostatin in adenomas correlated directly with that of parathyroid hormone. In addition, concentrations of VIP versus substance P and somatostatin versus CGRP-2 in adenomas were directly correlated. Neuropeptide content of parathyroid hyperplasias differed from that of adenomas. VIP was detected in only one of seven parathyroid hyperplasias, and neurotensin was undetectable (0/7), whereas substance P was present in six of seven cases and GRP in five of seven hyperplasias. In hyperplasias, content of substance P correlated directly with that of gastrin-releasing peptide. Peroxidase immunohistochemistry localized VIP-like immunoreactivity to 20% to 50% of both chief and oxyphilic cells and rare clear cells and capillary endothelium in 11 of 12 adenomas studied. Focal staining was present in glandular epithelium of the rim of adjacent normal parathyroid tissue and in two of three normal parathyroid glands removed with thyroid goiters. This staining was both cytoplasmic and apical membrane. By contrast, in adenomas, neurotensin- and substance P-like positivities were confined to scattered (5% to 10%) oxyphilic cells. Cytoplasmic positivity for parathyroid hormone, noted in 30% to 70% of cells in serial sections, confirmed that these tissues were indeed parathyroid glands.
Suggestive evidence for a microanatomical relationship between mast cells and nerve fibres containing substance P, calcitonin gene related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and somatostatin in the rat mesentery.	A close microanatomical relationship between serotonin-positive mast cells and nerve fibres positive for substance P, calcitonin gene related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and somatostatin has been observed in whole-mount preparations of rat mesentery by an immunofluorescent double-staining procedure. Peptidergic fibres have been shown either to run in close proximity or come in direct contact with mast cells. This supports earlier morphological and immunohistochemical results suggesting an innervation of mast cells and provides a structural foundation for a series of pharmacological studies which outline the influence of various neuropeptides on mast cell secretory activity.
A large proportion of afferent neurons innervating the uterine cervix of the cat contain VIP and other neuropeptides.	Axonal tracing techniques were used in combination with immunohistochemistry to examine the distribution of neuropeptides in afferent pathways from the uterine cervix of the cat. Primary afferent neurons innervating the uterine cervix were identified by axonal transport of the dye, fast blue, injected into the cervix. Fifteen to twenty-five days after the injection, dorsal root ganglia (L1-S3) were removed and incubated for 48-72 h in culture medium containing colchicine to increase the levels of peptides. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), cholecystokinin (CCK), leucine-enkephalin (LENK), somatostatin, substance P and vasoactive intenstinal polypeptide (VIP) were identified by use of indirect immunohistochemical techniques. Eighty-four percent of uterine cervix afferent neurons were identified in the sacral dorsal root ganglia (S1-S3), and 16% in the middle lumbar dorsal root ganglia (L3-L4). In sacral dorsal root ganglia, VIP was present in the highest percentage of dye-labeled cells (71%), CGRP in 42%, and substance P in 18% of the cells. CCK and LENK were present in 13% of the cells. In lumbar dorsal root ganglia, CGRP (51%) was most prominent peptide followed by VIP (34%), substance P (28%), LENK (17%) and CCK (13%). Somatostatin was present in the ganglia but did not occur in dye-labeled neurons. In conclusion, the uterine cervix of the cat receives a prominent VIP- and CGRP-containing afferent innervation. The percentage of neurons containing VIP is three to five times higher than the percentage of these neurons in afferent pathways to other pelvic organs. These observations coupled with the results of physiological studies suggest that VIP is an important transmitter in afferent pathways from the cervix.
Localization of neuropeptides in the nervous system of the marine annelid Sabellastarte magnifica.	Immunohistochemical studies of the nervous system of Sabellastarte magnifica, a sedentary polychaete, showed the presence of neuropeptide expressing cells and fibers within the double ventral nerve cord. Immunoreactivity to cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y, enkephalins, substance P, and FMRFamide was found to be present in specific populations of cells, identifiable by their location and by the neuropeptide they expressed. Fibers expressing the various neuropeptides were also observed in particular locations within the nerve cord. This characteristic distribution of the various neuron subgroups and fiber pathways may represent functional circuits within the nervous system of this annelid.
Increase in substance P precursor mRNA in noninflamed small-bowel sections in patients with Crohn's disease.	Neuropeptides, such as substance P (SP), are mediators of neurogenic inflammation and play an important role in inflammatory disorders. To further investigate the role of the SP pathway in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), we analyzed the following in normal intestinal tissue specimens and in tissue specimens from patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC): neurokinin receptor-1 (NK-1R); its isoforms (NK-1R-L and NK-1R-S); its ligand SP, encoded by preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A); and the SP-degradation enzyme, neutral endopeptidase (NEP).
Fine structure of Eimer's organ in the coast mole (Scapanus orarius).	Eimer's organ is a small, densely innervated sensory structure found on the glabrous rhinarium of most talpid moles. This structure consists of an epidermal papilla containing a central circular column of cells associated with intraepidermal free nerve endings, Merkel cell neurite complexes, and lamellated corpuscles. The free nerve endings within the central cell column form a ring invested in the margins of the column, surrounding 1-2 fibers that pass through the center of the column. A group of small-diameter nociceptive free nerve endings that are immunoreactive for substance P surrounds this central ring of larger-diameter free nerve endings. Transmission electron microscopy revealed a high concentration of tonofibrils in the epidermal cells of the central column, suggesting they are more rigid than the surrounding keratinocytes and may play a mechanical role in transducing stimuli to the different receptor terminals. The intraepidermal free nerve endings within the central column begin to degrade 15 microm from the base of the stratum corneum and do not appear to be active within the keratinized outer layer. The peripheral free nerve endings are structurally distinct from their counterparts in the central column and immunocytochemical double labeling with myelin basic protein and substance P indicates these afferents are unmyelinated. Merkel cell-neurite complexes and lamellated corpuscles are similar in morphology to those found in a range of other mammalian skin.
Comparative neurochemical study of the thoracic and sacral intermediolateral nuclei in the rat.	In view of the known functional differences, the neurochemical character of the thoracic and sacral intermediolateral nuclei were compared.
Immunohistochemical localization of hormones and peptides in the human pituitary cells in a case of hypercortisolism by ACTH secreting microadenoma.	This study assesses the action of hypercortisolism on the hormone and peptide periadenoma region of removed ACTH-producing microadenoma. Our findings show that cortisol excess affects both ACTH and GH production, with no immunoreaction for these hormones. The remaining pituitary hormones (TSH, FSH and PRL) and POMC-derived peptides (betaEnd, alphaMSH and betaMSH) were not modified. Likewise, we observed pituitary immunoreactive cells for Neurotensin (NT), Intestinal vasoactive peptide (VIP), Substance P (SP) and Angiotensin-II (Ang-II). The colocalization demonstrated that NT was expressed in thyrotrope and gonadotrope cells, VIP in gonadotrope cells and SP in corticotrope cells. The results about Ang-II were inconclusive. On the other hand, immunoreaction for the NPY and Gal peptides were not present. In the adenomatous cells, the peptide NT is present in ACTH cells as well as SP. These results suggest a peptide regulation of pituitary cells in the pathological state that can differ between normal and tumoural cells of the same pituitary.
Early dexamethasone treatment after implantation of a sciatic-nerve cuff decreases the concentration of substance P in the lumbar spinal cord of rats with neuropathic pain.	The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of early dexamethasone treatment on pain-related peptides at an early stage in the development of neuropathic pain induced by implantation of a sciatic nerve cuff in Sprague Dawley rats (body weight 250 to 350 g). The rats were tested for touch sensitivity with the use of von Frey filaments before and 3 d after cuff implantation (n = 12) or sham surgery (n = 6). Half of the cuff-implanted rats received dexamethasone, 1 mg/kg intraperitoneally, 1 h after surgery. Spinal cords were collected on the 3rd day after surgery, and the lumbar enlargement was processed for the detection of selected peptides (neurotensin, substance P, cholecystokinin [CCK], vasoactive intestinal peptide, and calcitonin gene-related peptide) by means of liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. The right sciatic nerve of each rat was collected, fixed, and stained for histopathological evaluation. Except for neurotensin, all the peptides showed an increased concentration with neuropathic pain; however, the differences were significant (P < 0.05) only for substance P and CCK. In the animals treated with dexamethasone, mechanical allodynia was less pronounced (P < 0.01), and only the concentration of substance P was decreased significantly (P < 0.05). Sciatic nerve sections showed a decrease in C (P < 0.01) and Adelta (P < 0.03) fibres with neuropathic pain and a nearly normal percentage of C fibres after dexamethasone treatment. The dexamethasone-treated animals also had less inflammation detectable microscopically at the nerve constriction site compared with cuff-implanted animals that were not treated with dexamethasone. Our results suggest that in the early stages of neuropathic pain induced by an inflammatory process, dexamethasone may be a useful treatment and that substance P plays an important role in pain perception.
Botulinum toxin type A inhibits rat pyloric myoelectrical activity and substance P release in vivo.	The effect of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) on rat pyloric myoelectrical activity in vivo and the content and distribution of substance P (SP) in pylorus were investigated, respectively, with electromyography, radioimmunoassay, and immunohistochemistry. A pair of electrodes for recording pyloric myoelectrical activity and a guide cannula for drug injection were implanted into the pylorus. The changes of pyloric myoelectrical activity were recorded followed vehicle, 10, 20, and 40 U/kg body mass of BTX-A injection. Pyloric tissues were dissected for radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry after recording. The 3 dosages of BTX-A injections caused the reduction of slow wave of pyloric myoelectrical activity in amplitude but not in frequency and the diminishment of spike activity in amplitude and spike burst. The inhibitory effect of 20 U/kg BTX-A was significantly different from that of 10 U/kg (p<0.05), but not from the effect of 40 U/kg administration (p>0.05). After BTX-A intrasphincteric injection, SP content was reduced in the pylorus, and cell number of SP-immunoreactivity was decreased more in myenteric nerve plexus of circular muscle and in mucosa of pylori. In conclusion, BTX-A inhibits pyloric myoelectrical slow activity in amplitude and spike activity and weakens pyloric smooth muscle contractility depending on threshold of dose or concentration. BTX-A-induced inhibition of pyloric myoelectrical activity implies a mechanism of inhibiting SP release from the autonomic and enteric nervous terminals in the pylorus.
Herniated and spondylotic intervertebral discs of the human cervical spine: histological and immunohistological findings in 500 en bloc surgical samples. Laboratory investigation.	In this paper the authors' goal was to identify histological and immunohistochemical differences between cervical disc hemrniation and spondylosis.
The cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) immunoreactivity in the amygdala of the pig.	The distribution and morphology of neurons containing cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) was investigated in the pig amygdala. CART- immunoreactive (CART-IR) cell bodies were rarely observed in the pig amygdala and most often they were present in the posterior (small-celled) parts of the basolateral and basomedial nuclei. In all other subdivisions only a small number of randomly scattered pericarya were present. In every region studied the CART-IR neurons formed a heterogeneous population consisting mostly of small, rounded or slightly elongated cell bodies, with a few poorly branched, smooth dendrites. In general, the morphological features of these cells clearly resembled non-pyramidal Golgi type II interneurons. Some randomly scattered CART-IR cell bodies were significantly larger and they demonstrated features of pyramidal-like Golgi type I projecting neurons. The highest densities of CART-IR fibres were evident within the central and medial nuclei. Moderate to high expression was found within the large-celled part of the basolateral nucleus and moderate to low levels in the lateral, basomedial and cortical nuclei. The routine double-labelling studies with antisera directed against CART and somatostatin (SOM), or neuropeptide Y (NPY), or cholecystokinin (CCK), or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), or substance P (SP) demonstrated that, in general, these peptides do not co-exist in the CART-IR neurons. However, small subpopulations of the CART-IR fibres contained SOM, CCK, VIP or SP together.
Effect of experimentally induced occlusal trauma on substance p expression in human dental pulp and periodontal ligament.	The purpose of this study was to quantify the effect of occlusal trauma experimentally induced with occlusal interferences on substance P (SP) expression in healthy human dental pulp and periodontal ligament.
Distribution of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the spinal cord of Cavalier King Charles Spaniels affected by symptomatic syringomyelia.	The causes of clinical signs associated with syringomyelia in the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel (CKCS) are incompletely understood. In this study we compared expression of two pain-related neuropeptides: substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), in the spinal cord dorsal horn of normal dogs with that in CKCS with and without clinical signs of syringomyelia. There was a decrease in expression of both peptides in CKCS with 'symptomatic' syringomyelia that was also associated with significant asymmetry in SP-I and similar, though non-significant, asymmetry in CGRP-I compared with other groups. The asymmetric distribution of these pain-related peptides may be a consequence of syrinx-associated damage to grey matter but may also play a role in generation of pain.
Substance P-immunopositive neurons in rat sensory ganglion of the spinal nerve in postnatal development]	Afferent neurons containing substance P (SP) were studied immunohistochemically in the sensory ganglion of the spinal nerve in 30 rats aged 10-90 days. The results obtained indicated that SP-immunoreactive neurons are present in thesel ganglia from the moment of birth. During the development, the percentage of SP-containing neurons decreased till day 10. SP-immunoreactive neurons were represented by the cells of very small or small size.
The substance P/neurokinin-1 receptor system in lung cancer: focus on the antitumor action of neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists.	The last decades have seen no significant progress in extending the survival of lung cancer patients and there is an urgent need to improve current therapies. The substance P (SP)/neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1R) system plays an important role in the development of cancer: SP and NK-1R antagonists respectively induce cell proliferation and inhibition in human cancer cell lines. No study of the involvement of this system in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cells has been carried out in depth. Here, we demonstrate the involvement of the SP/NK-1R system in human H-69 (SCLC) and COR-L23 (NSCLC) cell lines: (1) they express isoforms of the NK-1R and mRNA for the NK-1R; (2) they overexpress the tachykinin 1 gene; (3) the NK-1R is involved in their viability; (4) SP induces their proliferation; (5) NK-1R antagonists (Aprepitant (Emend), L-733,060, L-732,138) inhibit the growth of both cell lines in a concentration-dependent manner; (6) the specific antitumor action of these antagonists against such cells occurs through the NK-1R; and (7) lung cancer cell death is due to apoptosis. We also demonstrate the presence of NK-1Rs and SP in all the human SCLC and NSCLC samples studied. Our findings indicate that the NK-1R may be a promising new target in the treatment of lung cancer and that NK-1R antagonists could be new candidate antitumor drugs in the treatment of SCLC and NSCLC.
High-fat diet ingestion correlates with neuropathy in the duodenum myenteric plexus of obese mice with symptoms of type 2 diabetes.	Obesity and type 2 diabetes are increasing in prevalence at an alarming rate in developed and developing nations and over 50% of patients with prolonged stages of disease experience forms of autonomic neuropathy. These patients have symptoms indicating disrupted enteric nervous system function including gastric discomfort, gastroparesis and intestinal dysmotility. Previous assessments have examined enteric neuronal injury within either type 1 diabetic or transgenic type 2 diabetic context. This study aims to assess damage to myenteric neurons within the duodenum of high-fat diet ingesting mice experiencing symptoms of type 2 diabetes, as this disease context is most parallel to the human condition and disrupted duodenal motility underlies negative gastrointestinal symptoms. Mice fed a high-fat diet developed symptoms of obesity and diabetes by 4 weeks. After 8 weeks, the total number of duodenal myenteric neurons and the synaptophysin density index were reduced and transmission electron microscopy showed axonal swelling and loss of neurofilaments and microtubules, suggesting compromised neuronal health. High-fat diet ingestion correlated with a loss of neurons expressing VIP and nNOS but did not affect the expression of ChAT, substance P, calbindin and CGRP. These results correlate high-fat diet ingestion, obesity and type 2 diabetes symptoms with a loss of duodenal neurons, biasing towards those with inhibitory nature. This pathology may underlie dysmotility and other negative GI symptoms experienced by human type 2 diabetic and obese patients.
Neuroimmunomodulation in human autoimmune liver disease.	Bidirectional interaction between immune and nervous systems is considered an important biological process in health and disease. However, little is known about the mechanisms involved in their interaction in the human liver. This study examines the distribution of intrahepatic NPY, SP immunoreactive (IR) nerve fibers and their antomical relationship with immunocells containing tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) in patients with autoimmune hepatitis. Liver specimens were obtained from control liver and autoimmune hepatitis patients. The immunoreactivity was determined by immunohisto- and immunocytochemistry and confocal laser microscopy. In hepatitis, the number of NPY-IR and SP-IR nerve fibers increased significantly. These IR nerve fibers were in very close contact with the lymphocytes. In healthy controls, no NPY-IR, SP-IR or NF-κB IR lymphocytes and only a few TNF-α positive cells, were observed. In hepatitis, some of the lymphocytes showed immunoreactivity for SP and NPY in the portal area. Fluorescent double-labeled immunostaining revealed that in these cells NPY did not colocalize with TNF-α or NF-κB. However, some of the SP fluorescence-positive immune cells exhibited immunostaining for p65 of NF-κB, where their labeling was detected in the nuclei. Under the electronmicroscope, these cells could be identified (lymphocytes, plasmacells and mast cells). The gap between the IR nerve fibers and immunocells was 1 μm or even less. Overexpression of SP in lymphocytes may amplify local inflammation, while NPY may contribute to liver homeostasis in hepatitis. Neural immunomodulation (SP antagonists and NPY) might be a novel therapeutic concept in the management of liver inflammation.
Expression of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, β-endorphin and methionine-enkephalin in human dental pulp tissue after orthodontic intrusion: a pilot study.	To determine the levels of two sensory neuropeptides (substance P [SP] and calcitonin gene-related peptide [CGRP]) and two endogenous opioids (methionine-enkephalin [Met-Enk] and β-endorphin [β-End]) in dental pulp tissue samples subjected to controlled orthodontic intrusive forces.
Immunochemical studies of substance P and cholecystokinin octapeptide recovery in dorsal horn following unilateral lumbosacral ganglionectomy.	Deafferentation of the cat lumbosacral dorsal horn following unilateral ganglionectomy (L2-S3) produced an ipsilateral depletion of substance P (sP) and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) immunoreactivity (IR). The loss of sP IR and CCK IR was most marked at 11 days postlesion, and partial recovery of sP IR and CCK IR was noted in the upper laminae of the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the lesion 14 days after deafferentation. The dorsal horn sP IR and CCK IR distribution and density of staining on the deafferented side were indistinguishable from those on the control side 1 month after ganglionectomy. The pattern and density of methionine-enkephalin (M-ENK) IR was not disrupted by deafferentation, demonstrating that the sP IR and CCK IR depletions were due to the deafferentation and not to nonselective vascular damage. The recovery of sP IR and CCK IR was not affected by midline myelotomy or thoracic cord transections, implying a local origin for the recovered sP IR and CCK IR. Moreover, capsaicin, a primary afferent neurotoxin, depleted sP IR and CCK IR only from the intact side. Thus, these studies indicate that the recovery of two immunochemically identified primary afferent transmitters in the dorsal horn does not involve intraspinal sprouting of primary afferents. Radioimmunoassay (RIA) analysis of the ganglionectomies followed by recovery periods ranging from 7 to 28 days confirmed the depletion and recovery of sP IR, but the RIA indicated a temporal shift in depletion and recovery. Maximal depletion was measured at 21 days and recovery was observed at 28 days after unilateral deafferentation.
Chronic haloperidol and clozapine differentially affect dynorphin peptides and substance P in basal ganglia of the rat.	The effect of chronic neuroleptic treatment, using haloperidol or clozapine, on immunoreactive dynorphin peptide and substance P levels in basal ganglia of rats was examined. The drugs were administered i.p. in daily doses for 10 days (haloperidol 1 mg/kg and clozapine 10 mg/kg). Dynorphin A, dynorphin B and substance P were measured in substantia nigra, striatum, globus pallidus and hypothalamus using specific radioimmunoassays. The most prominent effects were observed with with clozapine which increased levels of all measured peptides in substantia nigra. Haloperidol only affected nigral substance P levels which declined, while nigral dynorphin peptide levels remained unchanged. In striatum, haloperidol slightly reduced dynorphin peptides while substance P was unaffected. Clozapine increased striatal substance P but the dynorphin peptides were not affected. Minor changes in dynorphin peptides found in globus pallidus and hypothalamus were not statistically reliable. Substance P was not changed in these structures after either of the two drugs. High molecular weight fragments (greater than or equal to 5,000) from the dynorphin precursor, proenkephalin B, were measured in substantia nigra and striatum using trypsin digestion and subsequent analysis of generated Leu-enkephalin-Arg6. These high molecular weight fragments were found to be affected in the same manner as the dynorphin peptides. This study indicates that the two types of neuroleptic drugs have different modes of interaction on peptide systems in basal ganglia of rats. Dynorphin peptides and substance P were also differentially affected.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons project from the ventral medulla to the intermediolateral cell column: partial coexistence with serotonin.	Projections from medullary thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) containing neurons to the intermediolateral cell column (IML) of the thoracic spinal cord were studied in the rat. Lesions of the ventral medullary reticular formation nuclei, nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis and nucleus interfascicularis hypoglossi, decreased the thyrotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactivity in the IML. The ventral horn and dorsal horn contents of TRH were also reduced in rats with nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis lesions. Coexistence of spinal cord TRH and serotonin was evaluated and quantified in 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-treated rats. Treatment with the serotonin neurotoxin reduced the TRH content of the IML by 45% and of the ventral horn by 92%. These data show that TRH containing neurons project from the ventral medulla to IML and that approximately one-half of these TRH neurons are also serotonergic. Comparisons of the effects of the same lesions on the substance P and TRH content of the IML show that neither the origin of the SP and TRH neuronal projections to the IML, nor their coexistence with serotonin, are identical.
Mild footshock stress dissociates substance P from substance K and dynorphin from Met- and Leu-enkephalin.	Mild footshock stress selectively activates ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons innervating the prefrontal cortex. The same stressor rapidly dissociates ventral tegmental substance P from its preprotachykinin-derived co-transmitter substance K, and preproenkephalin B-derived dynorphin B from preproenkephalin A-derived Met-enkephalin-Arg-Gly-Leu and Leu-enkephalin. Mild footshock stress may provide a paradigm for studying both peptidergic modulation of brain dopaminergic neurons and the dynamic regulation of tachykinin and opioid peptide transcription, processing and utilization.
Correlation of neuronal size and peptide immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig trigeminal ganglion.	Frequency and size of guinea-pig trigeminal neurones immunoreactive with antisera to alpha-neo-endorphin-(alpha-neo-END), dynorphin A- (DYN), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- (VIP), somatostatin- (SOM), and substance P- (SP) are reported. Co-localisation of the various peptides to the same ganglion cells was investigated immunocytochemically in consecutive 7-micron thick paraffin sections. According to their size, all peptide-immunoreactive neurones belong to the class of "small" ganglion cells. Within this cell group, SP-immunoreactive neurones appear to be the largest, followed by SOM-, VIP-, alpha-neo-END- and DYN-immunoreactive ganglion cells. The observed differences in size are statistically significant with the exception of that between alpha-neo-END and DYN. This finding correlates well with the observed co-occurrence of the two immunoreactive peptides. All alpha-neo-END-immunoreactive perikarya are also reactive to VIP antisera. These neurons are significantly smaller than those containing VIP-immunoreactivity exclusively. Ganglion cells displaying co-existence of alpha-neo-END- and SP-immunoreactivity or VIP- and SP-immunoreactivity are found too infrequently to allow morphometric analysis. Some non-immunoreactive ganglion cells are shown to be approached by dense baskets of VIP-, alpha-neo-END- or SP-immunoreactive varicose fibres, indicating the presence of intraganglionic modulation sites. The combination of immunohistochemistry and morphometry presented in this study allows the differentiation of diverse populations of primary afferent neurones exhibiting peptide immunoreactivity, most likely reflecting their involvement in different central and peripheral reflex arcs and sensory modalities.
Neurokinin A and substance P in striato-nigral neurons in rat brain.	The effect of an ibotenic acid lesion in rostral striatum on tissue levels of neurokinin A and substance P in striatum and substantia nigra was studied in rat brain. A total of 32 micrograms (10 mg/ml) ibotenic acid was injected in four positions to lesion striatal cell bodies rostral to bregma. The neurokinin A level was reduced to a third of the control value in striatum and to less than half of the control level in substantia nigra. Neurokinin A, in addition to substance P, is shown to be possibly present in striato-nigral neurons, which provides further evidence for the existence of a striato-nigral tachykinin pathway.
Distribution of some peptides (substance P, [Leu]enkephalin, [Met]enkephalin) in the brain stem and spinal cord of a lizard, Varanus exanthematicus.	The distribution of substance P-like and [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies, fibers and terminal structures in the brain stem and spinal cord of a lizard, Varanus exanthematicus, was studied with the indirect immunofluorescence technique, using antibodies to these peptides. Substance P-like immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the hypothalamus, in a periventricular cell group in the rostral mesencephalon, in the interpeduncular nucleus, in and ventral to the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, in and directly ventral to the nucleus of the solitary tract, scattered in the brain stem reticular formation and in the trigeminal and spinal ganglia. A rather widespread distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity was found in the brain stem and spinal cord, mainly concentrated in striatotegmental projections related to visceral and/or taste information (nucleus of the solitary tract, parabrachial region), in the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord (areas I and II). In the spinal cord also around the central canal (area X and adjacent parts of area V-VI) a distinct substance P innervation was found. The ventral horn receives only a very sparse substance P innervation. The distribution of [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin in the brain stem and spinal cord of Varanus exanthematicus is less impressive than that of substance P. Enkephalinergic cell bodies were found particularly in the caudal hypothalamus. Small populations of enkephalinergic cell bodies were found in the vestibular nuclear complex, in the nucleus of the solitary tract, in and around the descending nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and throughout the rhombencephalic reticular formation. Enkephalins are likely to be present in efferent projections of the striatum, in projections related to taste and/or visceral information (nucleus of the solitary tract, parabrachial region) and in descending pathways to the spinal cord. Enkephalinergic fibers are present in the lateral funiculus and enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies are found in the reticular formation, particularly the inferior reticular nucleus which is known to project to the spinal cord. In the spinal cord enkephalinergic terminal structures were found especially in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn (areas I and II) and around the central canal. The ventral horn including the motoneuron area receives only a relatively sparse enkephalinergic innervation.
Advantages of bispecific hybridomas in one-step immunocytochemistry and immunoassays.	A chemical selection procedure has been used to prepare a hybrid hybridoma cell line (P4C1) following fusion of two previously established hybridomas secreting antiperoxidase and antisubstance P, respectively. P4C1 secretes bispecific monoclonal antibody alongside the two parental antibodies, with no visible inactive heterologous heavy-light chain pairs. The bispecific monoclonal antibody is thus easy to purify in excellent yields. The advantage of its monovalency for one antigen and simultaneous binding of a marker enzyme has been explored for its potential use in competitive immunoassays. Its use in immunocytochemistry led to major improvements in sensitivity, signal-to-noise ratio, simplification of staining procedures, and ultrastructural preservation of subcellular elements. Particularly remarkable was that, unlike conventional procedures, the immunoreaction with the bispecific monoclonal antibody was homogeneously distributed across the entire thickness of a 50-micron section.
Coexistence of neuropeptides in sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the cat.	Coexistence of four neuropeptides in sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) was investigated immunohistochemically in cats after intrathecal administration of colchicine. Neurons were studied for the coexistence of all combinations of enkephalin-, neurotensin-, somatostatin-, and substance P-like immunoreactivity (ENK, NT, SS, and SP, respectively) in the intermediolateral cell column (IML), nucleus intercalatus (IC), and central autonomic area (CA). The results indicate that SP coexists with all three other peptides, SS coexists with NT and SP, and ENK coexists only with SP. In all cases, SPN which contained two peptides were found in the IML in almost all levels of the thoraco-lumbar cord. Much smaller numbers of SPN which contained two peptides (in the same combinations as above) were found in the IC and not all segments contained such neurons. In the CA, only one neuron was found which contained two peptides (SP/SS). The distribution of SPN containing two peptides suggests that these neurons may participate in more general functions of the autonomic nervous system and that they are not likely involved in the innervation of specific visceral organs.
Intestinal mucosal mast cells in normal and nematode-infected rat intestines are in intimate contact with peptidergic nerves.	Inflammatory or allergic conditions, as well as situations where healing and repair processes occur, are characterized by the presence of increased numbers of mast cells. Previous work on the effect of neuropeptides on mast cell mediator release showed that only substance P caused such release from intestinal mucosal mast cells [Shanahan, F., Denburg, J. A., Fox, J., Bienenstock, J. & Befus, A. D. (1985) J. Immunol. 135, 1331-1337]. Accordingly, we investigated the microanatomical relationship between mast cells and enteric nerves in normal rat intestine and parasite-infected rat intestine, in which mucosal mast cell hyperplasia occurs. Combined immunohistochemistry for neuron-specific enolase and staining with alcian blue at pH 0.5 was employed on paraffin-embedded sections of normal and Nippostrongylus brasiliensis-infected rat jejunum. Sixty-seven percent of intestinal mucosal mast cells were touching subepithelial nerves, and an additional 20% were within 2 micron of nerves. Assessment of the proportion of the lamina propria occupied by mast cells (12.5%), the average mast cell area (121 +/- 28 microns 2), and the density of enteric nerves (one per 788 +/- 151 microns 2) suggested that the association was 5 times greater than would be expected by chance alone (P less than 0.0001). In consecutive sections, the nerves in contact with mast cells were also shown to contain substance P and/or calcitonin-gene-related peptide. Electron microscopy confirmed this association: 8% of the mast cells in infected rats exhibited membrane-membrane contact with unmyelinated axons containing 70- to 170-nm dense-core vesicles, and an additional 31% were situated less than 250 nm from nerves. Other mast cells appeared to embrace nerve bundles through the projection of lamellopodia. These data provide systematic quantitative evidence that a structural foundation for communication between the immune and nervous systems exists in the rat gastrointestinal tract.
Pathway-specific patterns of the co-existence of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, cholecystokinin and dynorphin in neurons of the dorsal root ganglia of the guinea-pig.	The co-existence of immunoreactivities to substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), cholecystokinin (CCK) and dynorphin (DYN) in neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of guinea-pigs has been investigated with a double-labeling immunofluorescence procedure. Four main populations of neurons could be identified that contained different combinations of these peptides and had distinctive peripheral projections: (Neurons that contained immunoreactivity to SP, CGRP, CCK and DYN were distributed mainly to the skin. Neurons with immunoreactivity to SP, CGRP and CCK, but not DYN, were distributed mainly to the small blood vessels of skeletal muscles. Neurons with immunoreactivity to SP, CGRP and DYN, but not CCK, were distributed mainly to pelvic viscera and airways. Neurons containing immunoreactivity to SP and CGRP, but not CCK and DYN, were distributed mainly to the heart, systemic blood vessels, blood vessels of the abdominal viscera, airways and sympathetic ganglia. Other small populations of DRG neurons containing SP, CGRP or CCK alone also were detected. Perikarya containing these combinations of neuropeptides were not found in autonomic ganglia. The peripheral axons of neurons containing immunoreactivity to at least SP and CGRP were damaged by chronic treatment with capsaicin. However, some sensory neurons containing CCK alone were not affected morphologically by capsaicin. These results clearly show that individual DRG neurons can contain many different neuropeptides. Furthermore, the combination of neuropeptides found in any particular neuron is related to its peripheral projection.
Trigeminal origin of beta-preprotachykinin products in feline pial blood vessels.	A specific and sensitive radioimmunoassay measured the presence of immunoreactive neurokinin A within feline and human pial arteries. Immunoreactivity exhibited a retention time identical to that of synthetic peptide when acid extracts from feline and human blood vessels were subjected to reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. As shown previously for substance P, levels of immunoreactive neurokinin A decreased significantly in the vessels from the ipsilateral rostral circle of Willis 19-24 days following unilateral trigeminal ganglionectomy. Hence, trigeminal projections to cerebral blood vessels contain both products of beta-preprotachykinin mRNA.
Regulatory peptides in the respiratory tract of Macaca fascicularis.	The quantitative distribution and localisation of seven regulatory peptides (vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), peptide histidine methionine (PHM), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), galanin, substance P, neuropeptide tyrosine (Y), and bombesin like peptides) were determined by radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry in six different regions of the respiratory tract of the cynomolgus monkey, Macaca fascicularis. In general, peptide concentrations were higher in the airways than in lung tissue itself. VIP and PHM were found in greatest abundance and in equimolar concentrations. Concentrations of substance P, neuropeptide Y, and bombesin were substantially lower. Immunocytochemistry localised all the peptides to nerve fibres, whose density generally paralleled the tissue concentrations by radioimmunoassay except in the case of bombesin, which was not detected. VIP, PHM, and galanin were mostly associated with glands of trachea and bronchus and with blood vessels and smooth muscle; CGRP and substance P were found principally beneath airway epithelium and around smooth muscle fibres and blood vessels; neuropeptide Y was found around blood vessels and seromucous glands only. The pattern of peptide distribution in the Macaca fascicularis respiratory tract is similar to that previously reported in human postmortem material, suggesting that the cynomolgus monkey may be a useful model for examining the pathophysiological role of peptides in human respiratory disease.
Nasal challenge with serotonin in asymptomatic hay fever patients.	To study the nasal response to serotonin, 14 asymptomatic hay fever patients received intranasal serotonin in increasing doses. Itching and the number of sneezes were noted, and the amount of secretion was measured and assayed for substance P. Nasal airway resistance was recorded by active posterior rhinomanometry. Serotonin induced a dose-dependent increase in nasal itching, number of sneezes and secretion. Substance P was found in 41 of 42 secretions. The median concentration was 10.3 pmol/l (range 0-28.9), and increased parallel to increasing doses of serotonin (P less than 0.001).
Immunohistochemical study on regeneration of substance P-like immunoreactivity in rat molar pulp and periodontal ligament following resection of the inferior alveolar nerve.	Using an indirect immunofluorescence method, after 14 days, regenerated SP-containing nerve fibres first appeared around the blood vessels in apical and coronal regions of the pulp and apical and middle regions of the periodontal ligament. Penetration of regenerated SP-positive fibres into the dentine and predentine was observed 25 days after operation. The number of regenerated SP-containing fibres recovered to nearly to the same level as in intact controls by 35 days. They had a similar distribution in the tissues.
Immunohistochemical demonstration of nociceptors in the capsule and synovial folds of human zygapophyseal joints.	Substance P, a physiologically potent neuropeptide, is considered to participate in nociceptive transmission of nerve impulses. Substance P immunofluorescent nerves are demonstrated in the inferior joint recess capsule and its synovial folds in human lumbosacral zygapophyseal joints. This may have clinical significance in spinal pain.
Interspecific comparisons of immunohistochemical localization of retinal neurotransmitters in four species of bats.	Four ecologically distinctive Neotropical bat species of the family Phyllostomidae were collected and their retinae surveyed immunohistochemically for the presence of neurotransmitter candidates: glucagon, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, substance P (SP), methionine enkephalin, serotonin (5-HT) and two enzymes, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH). In all four species immunoreactivity (IR) to GAD, TOH and SP was found. GAD-IR and SP-IR showed little interspecies variation whereas TOH-IR differed interspecifically in a pattern that matched the systematic relationships and the ecological characteristics of the bats. 5-HT-IR, which has not previously been reported from mammalian retinae, was found in fibers in the inner nuclear layer and in the outer and inner plexiform layers of Macrotus waterhousii, which is a relatively underived insectivorous phyllostomid bat, but was not found in the retinae from frugivorous or nectarivorous species.
Histochemical and biochemical investigation of adrenergic, cholinergic and peptidergic innervation of the rat ventral prostate 8 weeks after streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	The gross anatomy and autonomic innervation of the ventral prostate glands was examined in control and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The most striking finding was the consistent reduction in size and the gross atrophy of the prostates from diabetic rats. No change was detected in the total content of noradrenaline in the alveolar lobes or in the levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neuropeptide Y and substance P in the whole prostates of diabetic rats. However, histochemical and immunohistochemical investigations revealed localized reductions in density and/or fluorescence intensity of noradrenaline-containing nerve fibres and increased density and/or fluorescence intensity of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibres in the alveolar smooth muscle of a majority of diabetic animals. No changes in acetylcholinesterase-staining nerve fibres were seen. The adrenergic component of the autonomic nervous system in this gland appears to be particularly susceptible to change in diabetes.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity in capsaicin-sensitive structures of the rat thymus.	Unlike in mouse and hamster, the thymus of rats or guinea pigs contains measurable amounts of substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI), which, in a HPLC system, eluted as authentic SP or SP sulfoxide. Ontogenetic study showed that in rats the SP-LI content of the thymus increased up to 60 days from birth, and decreased thereafter. Capsaicin, but not 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) pretreatment completely depleted thymic SP-LI content in both newborn and adult rats. Animals treated with capsaicin as newborns, but not as adults, showed lower thymus weights as compared to controls. Rats pretreated with capsaicin as adults underwent partial time-dependent recovery of thymic SP-LI content. Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SST-LI) of rat thymus, eluting in part as authentic SST, was unaffected both by capsaicin or 6-OHDA pretreatment. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the existence of capsaicin-sensitive structures containing SP in the rat thymus. The possible function(s) that capsaicin-sensitive structures could exert in the thymus, among which a trophic action, mediated by the efferent function of sensory neurons, remain(s) to be established.
Immunohistochemical observation on the correlation between substance P- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivities in the feline dental pulp.	The correlation between substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-containing nerve fibres in the pulp was examined by double immunofluorescence. Both SP- and VIP-containing fibres entered the pulp in bundles with the blood vessels and spread throughout the pulp. In the coronal pulp, both SP- and VIP-containing nerve fibres formed networks on the walls of blood vessels, but both peptide-containing nerve fibres were not observed together in relation to vessels. There were more SP-containing fibres than VIP-containing ones. In the odontoblast layer, there were many SP-containing fibres but few VIP-containing ones.
Substance P-containing medullary projections to the intermediolateral cell column: identification with retrogradely transported rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres and immunohistochemistry.	Substance P (SP)-containing medullary neurons that project to the intermediolateral cell column (IML) of the rat were studied. Neurons were retrogradely labeled with rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres (RITC-M) injected into the T-3 IML, and SP-immunoreactive neurons were identified with immunocytochemistry. RITC-M labeled cells occurred in the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellular lateralis (RPgcl), adjacent and lateral to the pyramidal tract at the level of the rostral inferior olivary nucleus and extended to the mid-facial nucleus in the medulla. Cells were also labeled caudal to the RPgcl, in the nucleus reticularis ventralis, pars alpha (RVa), rostral to the RVa, in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (RGc), and in the raphe nuclei. SP immunoreactivity (SP-IR) was seen in cells that were also retrogradely labeled. These double-labeled cells were observed in the RPgcl, RVa and the raphe pallidus. These data show that the IML receives SP-neuronal projections from multiple locations in the medulla. The SP-neuronal projections from the RPgcl of the ventral medulla to the IML likely represent one component of the ventral medullary region that influences cardiovascular functions.
Normal development and effects of early deafferentation on choline acetyltransferase, substance P and serotonin-like immunoreactivity in the interpeduncular nucleus.	The normal postnatal development and response to neonatal fasciculus retroflexus (FR) lesions of serotonin, substance P (SP), and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) distribution are described for the rat interpeduncular nucleus (IPN). Serotonin-, SP- and ChAT-containing axons differed in development, distribution, and response to deafferentation. Serotonergic axons and cell bodies were present at birth. SP was present in the FR and in the lateral subnuclei by 3 days of age but did not appear in the rostral or dorsal subnuclei until 7-14 days. Intrinsic SP perikarya were not seen until 17 days of age. The development of ChAT was late, appearing only during the second week of life and not reaching adult patterns and density until after 21 days of age. The pattern of development of cytochrome oxidase and Bodian silver staining are also described. Both cytochrome oxidase and Bodian staining paralleled the patterns of localization and development of ChAT staining. Bilateral neonatal FR lesions resulted in a permanent loss of ChAT and cytochrome oxidase staining throughout the IPN and of SP in the lateral and rostral subnuclei. No changes were seen in the serotonergic system. Following unilateral lesions, the pattern of SP loss and replacement paralleled that seen after adult lesions. The pattern of replacement of ChAT differed from that after adult lesions in that there was partial replacement in the ipsilateral intermediate subnucleus following neonatal lesions. This result suggests that late developing cholinergic axons can innervate the contralateral intermediate nucleus to a much greater extent following infant lesions than following adult lesions.
Quinolinic and kainic acids can enhance calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in striatal neurons with substance P-like immunoreactivity.	Quinolinic or kainic acid, when injected into the cat striatum, caused neurodegenerative changes in striatal neurons. In parallel with these changes, however, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity became visible in perikarya of many striatal neurons which were distributed around the lesions produced by the quinolinic or kainic acid injections. The vast majority of these lesion-spared neurons showing calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity were striatal neurons with substance P-like immunoreactivity.
A sex difference in the pattern of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.	The caudal part of the dorsomedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) contained a discrete region of dense substance P (SP) staining in both male and female rats. However, the pattern of this staining differed markedly between the sexes. Males exhibited a densely stained capsule surrounding a less dense core. In females, this core was barely detectable (small and present on only 1 or 2 sections) or absent. The perimeter of this area of dense staining was traced and the area inside calculated. The mean area was found to be 2.4 times larger in males. The component of the BNST which receives this SP innervation was identified on Cresyl violet-stained sections. The area occupied by this distinct cell group was 32% larger in males. The areas of the suprachiasmatic nuclei and whole coronal sections through the BNST were measured in the same way and found not to differ between the sexes.
Neurotransmitters in the mammalian striatum: neuronal circuits and heterogeneity.	The major input and output pathways of the mammalian striatum have been well established. Recent studies have identified a number of neurotransmitters used by these pathways as well as by striatal interneurons, and have begun to unravel their synaptic connections. The major output neurons have been identified as medium spiny neurons which contain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), endogeneous opioids, and substance P. These neurons project to the pallidum and substantia nigra in a topographic and probably chemically organized manner. The major striatal afferents from the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and substantia nigra terminate, at least in part, on these striatal projection neurons. Striatal interneurons contain acetylcholine, GABA, and somatostatin plus neuropeptide Y, and appear to synapse on striatal projection neurons. In recent years, much activity has been directed to the neurochemical and hodological heterogeneities which occur at a macroscopic level in the striatum. This has led to the concept of a patch-matrix organization in the striatum.
Distributions of neuropeptides in the human esophagus.	The distributions of nerve cells and fibers with immunoreactivity for the peptides substance P, somatostatin, enkephalin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, gastrin-releasing peptide, and neuropeptide Y and the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase were examined in 25 samples of human esophagus. These were compared with samples of stomach and intestine. In the smooth muscle of the muscularis externa, the muscularis mucosae, and beneath the epithelium, the most abundant nerve fibers contained vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y, in contrast to the scarcity of substance P, enkephalin, somatostatin, and gastrin-releasing peptide. Gastric and intestinal samples contained dense populations of fibers containing vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y, substance P, and enkephalin in the equivalent layers, but somatostatin- and gastrin-releasing peptide-immunoreactive fibers were scarce. Complete coexistence of vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y in nerve fibers within the muscle layers was demonstrated in the esophagus, but not in gastric and intestinal samples. The myenteric plexus along the length of the esophagus contained cell bodies and fibers reactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, and substance P. Somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies were very rare in the myenteric plexus, no gastrin-releasing peptide-immunoreactive cell bodies were seen, and both somatostatin and gastrin-releasing peptide-immunoreactive fibers were rare. In the upper esophagus, striated muscle bundles did not contain nerve fibers reactive for these peptides but immunoreactive fibers were seen in the muscularis mucosae and subepithelium. It is concluded that the esophagus has a different pattern of innervation by peptide-containing neurons than the stomach and intestines. Esophageal neurons can be classified into separate classes on the basis of their peptide content.
Distinct substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive nerves in the guinea pig eye.	Using a double labeling indirect immunofluorescent technique, we studied the guinea pig trigeminal ganglion and eye for co-localization of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. In the trigeminal ganglion, the number of neurons immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide significantly outnumber those immunoreactive for substance P, but virtually all substance P positive neurons are immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide. In the eye, a complex pattern of co-localization is present; both peptides co-localize in most immunoreactive nerve fibers. Nerve fibers immunoreactive only for calcitonin gene-related peptide tend to be concentrated in the cornea and posterior ciliary body. Nerve fibers immunoreactive only for substance P are present in relation to both iris muscles. Sensory denervation by intracranial transection of the ophthalmic and maxillary nerves fails to eliminate these substance P positive but CGRP negative iris nerve fibers. These findings indicate an alternative origin for substance P immunoreactive nerves supplying the iris muscles in this species.
Effects of acute and chronic treatment with imipramine on 5-hydroxytryptamine nerve cell groups and on bulbospinal 5-hydroxytryptamine/substance P/thyrotropin releasing hormone immunoreactive neurons in the rat. A morphometric and microdensitometric analysis.	Groups of male rats were treated for a period of 14 days with imipramine (10 mumol/kg) given twice daily. Separate groups of rats received a single dose treatment using the same dose and experimental design as for the repeated treatment. Employing the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique for immunohistochemistry 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-, substance P(SP)- and thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH)-like immunoreactivities (IRs) were visualized in consecutive coronal sections of the brain stem and of the spinal cord. The IRs were studied by means of morphometric and microdensitometric procedures using automatic image analysis on profiles representing nerve terminal networks of the ventral horn of the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord as well as their coexistence (5-HT/SP and 5-HT/TRH). With the same technique 5-HT IR was measured in the 5-HT nerve cell groups of the medulla oblongata (B1, B2, B3) and of the nucleus raphe dorsalis (B7) of the midbrain. In addition 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels were measured in the ventral and dorsal horns of the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In the same parts of the spinal cord SP IR was studied by means of radioimmunoassay (RIA). The microdensitometric studies showed that chronic, but not acute, imipramine treatment selectively increased SP IR in the 5-HT/SP/TRH costoring nerve terminals of the medial part of the ventral horn in both the cervical and the lumbar enlargements. Furthermore, quantitative analysis of the entity of coexistence in the 5-HT nerve terminals networks of these areas showed that all the 5-HT nerve terminals contained SP and TRH IRs and that this phenomenon remained after acute and chronic imipramine treatment. The microdensitometric studies on the 5-HT nerve cell groups of the medulla oblongata and of the nucleus raphe dorsalis demonstrated that chronic, but not acute, imipramine treatment selectively increased 5-HT IR in the nerve cell bodies of the lateral part of group B3 as evaluated from the median grey values. Acute, but not chronic, imipramine treatment significantly increased the field area of 5-HT IR of nerve cell bodies in group B7, reflecting an increase in the mean profile area of the 5-HT IR nerve cell body profiles. Instead, the mean profile area of 5-HT IR cell bodies of group B1 was acutely reduced by imipramine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neuropeptides in Alzheimer's disease.	A large number of neuropeptides have been found in cortical neurons. They are therefore of interest in attempting to demonstrate selective vulnerability of different populations of neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The most consistent neuropeptide deficit in AD is reductions in cortical concentrations of somatostatin. Lesser reductions in corticotropin-releasing factor, neuropeptide Y and substance P have been reported. Concentrations of both vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin are relatively preserve. The morphologic correlate of reduced somatostatin concentrations in AD appears to be markedly distorted and reduced terminal fiber plexuses, rather than reduced numbers of neuronal perikarya. A large number of neuropeptides have been localized in senile plaques.
Capsaicin-induced corneal lesions in mice and the effects of chemical sympathectomy.	Effects of chemical sympathectomy on corneal changes induced in mice by a s.c. injection of capsaicin were investigated. Pretreatment with a s.c. injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on the 1st and 2nd postnatal day or on the 14th and 15th postnatal day led to a marked suppression of the capsaicin-induced corneal lesions. This suppressive effect also was evident in case of administration after capsaicin treatment. Intraventricular injection of 6-OHDA had a slight, transient effect. DSP4 [N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine], another potent substance used for sympathetic denervation, had a suppressive effect similar to that of 6-OHDA. The concentration of capsaicin in tissues of the head was unaltered with 6-OHDA. The content of substance P (SP) in the ocular anterior segments was decreased, dose-dependently, with capsaicin administration. Neonatal administration of 6-OHDA decreased the rate of capsaicin-induced reduction of SP. However, this effect of 6-OHDA was too slight to explain the suppression of the corneal lesions, as the intensity score of lesions with a large dose of capsaicin after 6-OHDA was lower than that with a small dose of capsaicin without 6-OHDA, whereas SP content in the former was still much lower than that in the latter. On the other hand, the content of norepinephrine in the ocular tissues was decreased in the presence of 6-OHDA but not capsaicin. These results suggest that the corneal changes induced by capsaicin are largely inhibited by a decreased activity in the peripheral sympathetic system.
Dopaminergic regulation of tachykinin metabolism in the striatonigral pathway.	The influence of the dopaminergic system on the striatonigral tachykinin pathway was studied in male Fischer 344 rats. Activation of dopamine receptors by subacute administration of apomorphine (APO; 5 mg/kg s.c. twice daily for 7 days) significantly increased striatonigral substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI; 73% over control in striatum, 63% over control in substantia nigra) and substance K-like immunoreactivity (49% over control in striatum, 15% over control in substantia nigra). The changes in striatonigral SP-LI were dose dependent (0.5-5 mg/kg), time related (one, three or seven daily injections) and region specific as changes were not observed in frontal cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus. The increase of SP-LI and substance K-like immunoreactivity was completely prevented by the dopamine receptor blocker, haloperidol, which, by itself, caused a slight decrease of both peptide levels. Immunocytochemical staining revealed enhanced SP-LI in neurons restricted to striatal patches and fibers in substantia nigra pars reticulata after APO treatment as compared with SP-LI intensity in control. In order to understand the molecular mechanism underlying the APO-induced increase in the level of tachykinins, the abundance of messenger RNA coding for preprotachykinin was quantified by blot hybridization. It was found that subacute administration of APO increased the abundance of preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the striatum. These results suggest that stimulation of dopaminergic receptors leads to an acceleration of tachykinin biosynthesis. A single dose of APO (2.5 mg/kg s.c.) induced a slight but significant reduction in striatal SP-LI (82% of control). This result suggests that APO triggers the release of tachykinins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Evidence for a visceral afferent origin of substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V of the rat thoracic spinal cord.	A visceral afferent origin of substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V of the lower thoracic spinal cord of the rat was investigated. In transverse sections from normal animals there was a moderately dense substance P-immunoreactive innervation of lamina V. In some sections there was a dorsoventrally orientated fibre bundle from the superficial dorsal horn entering lamina V. In parasagittal sections, substance P-immunoreactivity in lamina V was found arranged in clusters, with a periodicity in the rostrocaudal axis of 200-600 microns. In some cases these were seen to be continuous with a dorsoventrally orientated fibre bundle from the superficial dorsal horn. After section of the splanchnic nerve there was a consistent reduction in the density of the substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V, with fewer clusters on the operated side. Adult rats treated neonatally with capsaicin showed a substantial reduction of substance P-immunoreactivity in laminae I and II and the virtual abolition of staining in lamina V. These results provide evidence of a visceral origin for some of the substance P-like immunoreactivity in lamina V of the rat thoracic spinal cord. In addition, they confirm that most of the substance P-immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn is of primary afferent origin.
Substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons in the hippocampus and related areas of the human infant brain.	Neurons strongly immunoreactive for substance P are present as subpopulations in the stratum oriens, pyramidal layer and polymorphic layer of the hippocampus of the human infant. Substance P immunoreactive terminals are numerous on other neuronal cell bodies in the polymorphic layer and over pyramidal cells of the subiculum and the CA1, 2 and 3 regions. There is a high density of substance P-immunoreactive axons in the granular layer. Enkephalin immunoreactive neurons are relatively few in number and are present in the polymorphic and pyramidal layers. The results indicate that substance P probably plays a major role in short range circuits in the human hippocampus and that intrinsic enkephalin neurons probably play a relatively minor role.
The distribution of substance P-, enkephalin- and dynorphin-immunoreactive neurons in the medulla of the rat and their contribution to bulbospinal pathways.	This study examined the medullary distribution of peptide-containing neurons at the origin of bulbospinal pathways in the rat. Antisera directed against substance P, methionine-enkephalin-arg-gly-leu and dynorphin B were used on sections in which spinally projecting brainstem neurons had been identified by the retrograde transport of a protein-gold complex that was injected into the spinal cord. Both the relative numbers and distribution of the different peptide-immunoreactive spinally projecting neurons differed. Methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons were twice as numerous as the substance P-immunoreactive cells and seven times more numerous than the dynorphin B-positive neurons. The methionine-enkephalin cells were found in all medullary raphé nuclei, and in the ventromedial and ventrolateral medullary reticular formation. Caudally, the methionine-enkephalin cells were concentrated laterally; more rostrally they were located more medially. Three major loci of methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive cells were found: (1) the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis, at levels caudal to the facial nucleus, (2) the B3 cell group (nucleus raphé magnus and the nucleus reticularis magnocellularis, pars alpha) and the most rostral part of the B1 and B2 cell groups (nuclei raphé pallidus and obscurus), (3) a dense cluster of cells that flanks the dorsal surface of the dorsal accessory olive (referred to as the nucleus interfascicularis hypoglossi, pars dorsalis). Substance P-like cells were seen in all raphé nuclei except for the most anterior portion of the B3 cell group. Substance P-immunoreactive cells were also seen in both the ventromedial (nuclei reticularis ventralis and magnocellularis) and ventrolateral medulla (nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis). Finally there was a dense concentration of substance P neurons in the nucleus interfascicularis hypoglossi, pars ventralis. The distribution of dynorphin-immunoreactive neurons differed significantly from that of methionine-enkephalin and substance P. Dynorphin cells were almost exclusively found in the ventrolateral medulla (nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis), at all levels between the lateral reticular nucleus and the caudal pole of the facial nucleus. The proportion of each of these peptidergic-immunoreactive cells at the origin of bulbospinal pathways differed considerably. Substance P spinally projecting neurons were more numerous than methionine-enkephalin spinally projecting neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Possible neurotransmitters of the dorsal column afferents: effects of dorsal column transection in the cat.	We investigated quantitative changes in markers of possible neurotransmitters in the dorsal column nuclei following transection of the dorsal column in the cat. Seven days after unilateral transection of the dorsal column at the upper cervical level, choline acetyltransferase activity and concentrations of glutamate, aspartate, gamma-aminobutyrate and substance P were measured throughout the longitudinal axis of the dorsal column nuclei. In addition, high-affinity uptake of choline, D-aspartate and gamma-aminobutyrate into the synaptosomal fraction of the dorsal column nuclei were also measured. Choline acetyltransferase activity and high-affinity choline uptake were reduced by approx. 30% on the caudal to the obex. Reduction of high-affinity uptake of D-aspartate by approx. 30% was observed on the operated side in the central part of these nuclei, although the decrease in glutamate and aspartate was not significant in the nuclei on the operated side compared with that on the intact side. No significant changes were found in the high-affinity uptake of gamma-aminobutyrate or the contents of gamma-aminobutyrate and substance P in any areas of the dorsal column nuclei. These results suggest that not only glutamate and/or aspartate but also acetylcholine may be neurotransmitter candidates for the ascending fibres terminating in the dorsal column nuclei, whereas there may be few fibres containing substance P or gamma-aminobutyrate in the dorsal column.
Coexistence of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the frog spinal cord.	The localization of substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was studied in the untreated spinal cord of the frog using single or double immunohistochemical stainings. SP and CGRP appear to coexist in the primary afferent fibers and in the marginal and submarginal dorsal horn zones, as well as in the dorsolateral zone. In other parts of the spinal cord CGRP immunoreactivity was scanty while diffuse SP systems were seen, suggesting that the coexistence of the two peptides is restricted to primary afferent fibers.
Colocalization of substance P and gamma-aminobutyric acid in amacrine cells of the cat retina.	Substance P and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were colocalized by immunocytochemistry in two subpopulations of amacrine cells in the cat retina. All of the cells which stained for substance P also showed GABA reactivity. However, there were many GABA-immunoreactive cells which did not stain for substance P. The presence of neuropeptides provides a basis for additional neurochemical characterization of the multiple populations of GABA immunoreactive cells.
Substance P- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunoreactive nerve fibers in relation to ovarian postganglionic perikarya in para- and prevertebral ganglia: evidence from combined retrograde tracing and immunocytochemistry.	Retrograde neuronal tracing with the fluorescent dye True Blue and immunocytochemistry were utilized to examine postganglionic sympathetic neurons in para- and prevertebral ganglia projecting to the rat ovary. Perikarya in both ganglia were labeled with True Blue after application of the tracer to either the superior ovarian or ovarian plexus nerve. After application of True Blue to the superior ovarian nerve, 17% of the labeled cells in paravertebral ganglia were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In contrast, after application of True Blue to the ovarian plexus nerve, approximately 1% of the labeled cells in paravertebral ganglia were immunoreactive for the same polypeptide. Some vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive perikarya in paravertebral ganglia were not labeled with True Blue. In some cases, substance P- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibers were closely apposed to True Blue-labeled perikarya in para- and prevertebral ganglia. Paravertebral vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive perikarya projecting to the ovary presumably participate directly in the control of various ovarian functions. Substance P- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibers closely apposed to perikarya projecting to the ovary may participate indirectly in the control of various ovarian functions by affecting the activity of ovarian postganglionic neurons.
The postsynaptic targets of substance P-immunoreactive terminals in the rat neostriatum with particular reference to identified spiny striatonigral neurons.	Substance P-immunoreactive boutons were examined in the electron microscope in sections of the rat neostriatum that contained retrogradely labelled striatonigral neurons and/or Golgi-impregnated medium-size densely spiny neurons. The post-synaptic targets of the immunoreactive boutons were characterized on the basis of ultrastructural features, their projection to the substantia nigra and/or their somato-dendritic morphology. Substance P-immunoreactive axonal boutons formed symmetrical synaptic specializations. Of a total of 233 randomly identified synaptic boutons 72.5% made contact with dendritic shafts, 15% with dendritic spines and 10.7% with perikarya. The ultrastructural characteristics of some of the postsynaptic neuronal perikarya were consistent with their identification as striatal interneurons. Similarly, the observation of some of the substance P-containing terminals in contact with spines, spine-bearing dendritic shafts and perikarya with the ultrastructural characteristics of medium-size densely spiny neurons suggested that one of the targets of substance P-positive terminals are striatal projection neurons. Direct evidence for this was obtained in sections from rats that had received injections of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheatgerm agglutinin in the substantia nigra. The perikarya of retrogradely labeled striatonigral neurons were found to receive symmetrical synaptic input from substance P-positive boutons. Ultrastructural analysis of Golgi-impregnated medium-size densely spiny neurons, some of which were also retrogradely labeled from the substantia nigra, demonstrated directly that this class of neuron was postsynaptic to the substance P-immunoreactive boutons. The combination of Golgi-impregnation with substance P-immunocytochemistry made it possible to study the pattern or topography of the substance P-positive input to medium size densely spiny neurons. The substance P-containing boutons made contact predominantly with perikarya and dendritic shafts. This pattern of input is markedly different from that of other identified inputs to medium-size densely spiny neurons.
Intramural distribution of regulatory peptides in the sigmoid-recto-anal region of the human gut.	The distribution of regulatory peptides was studied in the separated mucosa, submucosa and muscularis externa taken at 10 sampling sites encompassing the whole human sigmoid colon (five sites), rectum (two sites), and anal canal (three sites). Consistently high concentrations of VIP were measured in the muscle layer at most sites (proximal sigmoid: 286 (16) pmol/g, upper rectum: 269 (17), a moderate decrease being found in the distal smooth sphincter (151 (30) pmol/g). Values are expressed as mean (SE). Conversely, substance P concentrations showed an obvious decline in the recto-anal muscle (mid sigmoid: 19 (2.0) pmol/g, distal rectum: 7.1 (1.3), upper anal canal: 1.6 (0.6)). Somatostatin was mainly present in the sigmoid mucosa and submucosa (37 (9.3) and 15 (3.5) pmol/g, respectively) and showed low, but consistent concentrations in the muscle (mid sigmoid: 2.2 (0.7) pmol/g, upper anal canal: 1.5 (0.8]. Starting in the distal sigmoid colon, a distinct peak of tissue NPY was revealed, which was most striking in the muscle (of mid sigmoid: 16 (3.9) pmol/g, upper rectum: 47 (7.8), anal sphincter: 58 (14)). Peptide YY was confined to the mucosa and showed an earlier peak (upper sigmoid: 709 (186) pmol/g, mid-distal sigmoid: 1965 (484)). A clear differential distribution of regulatory peptides was thus shown in the region studied. A possible role is suggested for NPY and VIP containing nerves in the effector control of the human internal anal sphincter.
Quantitative ultrastructural analysis of enkephalin-, substance P-, and VIP-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the circular muscle of the guinea pig small intestine.	The present work was undertaken to determine what proportion of all nerve fibers in the circular muscle of the guinea pig small intestine contain the neuropeptides enkephalin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal peptide and in which combinations these peptides occur in the fibers. It was envisaged that such an analysis would provide insights into the chemical identity of excitatory and inhibitory nerve fibers that innervate the muscle. Whole-mount preparations from normal and extrinsically denervated gut were labelled with antiserum to the individual peptides or with combinations of antipeptide antisera and processed for electron microscopy. Reactive and nonreactive vesicle-containing nerve fiber profiles were examined and counted in ultrathin sections. Vesicle-containing nerve fiber profiles immunoreactive for enkephalin, substance P, or vasoactive intestinal peptide had similar morphologies in that they all contained variable proportions of small clear and large granular vesicles. In all samples stained for single peptides or combinations of peptides, a small proportion of immunoreactive profiles approached smooth muscle cells to within 15-20 nm with no intervening basal lamina. A total of 14,694 vesiculated nerve fiber profiles from three control and three extrinsically denervated animals were scored for the presence of immunoreactivity to enkephalin, substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide, or combinations of these peptides. Analysis of variance showed that the number of profiles labelled for substance P was not different from the number of profiles labelled for vasoactive intestinal peptide and that the number labelled with the substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide antisera simultaneously were not different from the sum of the numbers obtained with each alone. The number of profiles labelled for substance P plus enkephalin was greater than the number labelled for substance P alone and the number labelled with vasoactive intestinal peptide plus enkephalin was greater than that with vasoactive intestinal peptide alone. Simultaneous labelling for substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide resulted in immunoreactivity in the same number of profiles as did reaction for all three peptides at the same time. In both cases, about 95% of the profiles were labelled. The results from extrinsically denervated muscle were not different from control circular muscle. These results indicate that nearly all the intrinsic nerve fibers supplying the circular muscle of the guinea pig small intestine contain either substance P or vasoactive intestinal peptide but not both.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of chronic treatment with trihexyphenidyl and carbamazepine alone or in combination with haloperidol on substance P content in rat brain: a possible implication of substance P in affective disorders.	To assess the roles of substance P in neurologic or psychiatric illnesses, effects of acute or chronic (40- or 80-day dietary) treatment with trihexyphenidyl and carbamazepine alone or in combination with haloperidol on substance P content were investigated in the rat brain. Either acute or chronic trihexyphenidyl administration did not alter substance P content when administered alone and did not prevent the haloperidol-induced substance P decrease in the striatum and substantia nigra when coadministered with haloperidol. Chronic dietary carbamazepine administration dose-dependently increased substance P content in the striatum and substantia nigra, but not in the raphe area, in a haloperidol-reversible manner. Carbamazepine also dose-dependently increased gamma-aminobutyric acid levels in the substantia nigra without altering the striatal dopamine turnover rate. The lack of effect of trihexyphenidyl, an anticholinergic drug used to treat antipsychotic drug-induced extrapyramidal (Parkinson) syndromes, suggests that antipsychotic drug-induced reduction in substance P content is not involved in the extrapyramidal side effects. Since the effects of carbamazepine on substance P content are identical with previously described effects of lithium, an alteration in substance P neurotransmission may be one of the neurochemical bases of common clinical and behavioral effects of carbamazepine and lithium on affective disorders.
Effect of nasal allergen challenge on serotonin, substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide in plasma and nasal secretions.	We have studied the changes in concentration of serotonin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in plasma following a nasal allergen provocation in 14 grass pollen-allergic subjects; in five the urinary excretion of serotonin and 5-hydroxy-indolyl-acetic acid (5-HIAA) was also measured. In addition, the concentration of serotonin and substance P was measured in nasal secretions following nasal challenge with allergen and methacholine. The results showed an allergen-induced increase in free plasma serotonin (P less than 0.01) and no change in platelet serotonin, urinary serotonin and urinary 5-HIAA. The plasma substance P level tended to fall (P greater than 0.1), while plasma VIP increased significantly (P less than 0.02). In nasal secretions, there were measurable levels of serotonin in all samples and of substance P in all but one. There was no difference between the concentrations of serotonin and substance P in secretions collected after allergen challenge and after methacholine challenge. For both substances, the secretion median value was comparable to that of plasma. Symptom reduction by topical and systemic pretreatment with a serotonin- and VIP-antagonist before nasal allergen provocation is necessary to define the role of these two agents in allergic rhinitis.
The distribution of substance P and met-enkephalin in the periaqueductal gray matter of the rat.	The distribution in the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) of substance P (SP) and Met-enkephalin (Met-enk), two neuropeptides related to pain modulation, was investigated. The study was carried out at different mesencephalic levels, with immunocytochemical methods in both "normal" and colchicine treated rats. The SP immunoreactive structures are made up of uniformly distributed fibers and neurons. The latter are particularly numerous in the ventral PAG and their number increases in a caudo-cranial direction. Along the midbrain axis, however, no significant variation of the Met-enk elements was observed. The Met-enk fibers are most numerous in lateral PAG, together with the few positive cells, which are also present. The comparison between the present results and others reported in the literature suggests that there may be species differences in the distribution of the two neuropeptides. The distribution of immunostructures has been discussed in the light of the physiological and cytoarchitectural features of PAG.
Distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the pedal ganglion of Mytilus galloprovincialis.	Nerve cell bodies and fibers displaying Substance P-like (SP-li) immunoreactivity have been identified in the pedal ganglia (PG) of Mytilus galloprovincialis. Most reactive neurons are small-sized, unipolar and are located in the ganglionic cortex. Positive fibers form a dense network in the neuropile and run parallel in the commissure and in the nerves and connective tracts. The positivity of the labelled elements to a monoclonal antibody indicates that SP-li substance of Mytilus contains a portion immunologically similar to the C-terminal pentapeptide responsible for the pharmacological activity of vertebrate SP.
Substance P-like immunoreactive innervation of the human colon and coeliac, superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric ganglia.	The localization of substance P is studied in the human prevertebral sympathetic ganglia and descending colon by the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Strongly immunoreactive axons reach the coeliac, superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric ganglia. The sympathetic postganglionic neurones are surrounded by a meshwork of positive beaded fibers and terminals. Varicose nerve fibers are variously distributed in all nonepithelial layers of the colon. A close network of fibers and terminal surrounds the ganglionic cells in the mienteric and submucous plexuses. Substance P-like immunoreactive perikarya are present in these structures.
Distribution of substance P immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in cranial sensory and autonomic ganglia of the chick.	Substance P-immunoreactive neurons were demonstrated in chick embryonic and adult trigeminal ganglion and jugular-superior ganglionic complex using FITC-immunohistochemical methods. Both small-size and large ganglion cells exhibited SP immunoreactivity, without apparent changes during embryonic and post-hatching development. SP-positive fibers could be detected in a good number in the sympathetic cranial cervical ganglion, either during embryonic development or in adult chick. No immunoreactive perikarya were observed in this ganglion. In the ciliary ganglion, both choroidal and ciliary neurons were SP-negative, whereas SP immunoreactive fibers surrounded the perikarya of both cell populations.
Distribution and development of substance P immunoreactive axons in the chick cornea and uvea.	A study was made of the distribution of Substance P-immunoreactive fibers in chick cornea and uvea in whole mount preparation, using the indirect immunofluorescence technique. The development of these fibers during embryogenesis was also investigated. SP-fibers were present in all chick eye structures, in the various prenatal and postnatal stages examined. Their distribution was comparable with that observed by other workers in mammals. Transformation of the iris musculature from smooth to striated, during development, is not accompanied by significant changes in SP-ergic innervation.
Characterization of the peptidergic afferent innervation of the stomach in the rat, mouse and guinea-pig.	Retrograde tracing of the fluorescent marker, True Blue, has been used together with immunohistochemistry employing antibodies to substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and morphine-modulating peptide to study the afferent innervation of the stomach in rat, mouse and guinea-pig. Up to 85% of spinal afferents to the stomach in all three species contained immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide, and up to 50% contained substance P. In all three species less than 10% of vagal afferents to the stomach reacted with antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide, or substance P. Cacitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibres were found in the myenteric plexus, circular muscle and around submucosal blood vessels in the stomach. In the rat, removal of the coeliac ganglion, splanchnic nerve section, or capsaicin treatment virtually abolished calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the stomach. Capsaicin and splanchnic section also abolished the staining of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide fibres in the coeliac ganglion. The same treatments abolished substance P staining of fibres around submucosal blood vessels, but in the myenteric plexus and circular smooth muscle there were still abundant immunoreactive fibres, presumably arising from intrinsic cell bodies. No somatostatin-containing visceral afferents could be found, although somatostatin was localized to cell bodies in rat dorsal root ganglia. Immunoreactive vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing dorsal root ganglia neurons were not found; although antibodies to morphine-modulatory peptide revealed immunoreactive nerve cell bodies, we were unable to exclude the possibility that this result is attributable to cross reactivity with calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results provide direct evidence that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a marker for a major subset of visceral primary afferent neurons and suggest that this population of spinal afferents makes a major contribution to the total gastric content of calcitonin gene-related peptide.
Clone-forming ability and differentiation potential of migratory neural crest cells.	The neural crest of vertebrate embryos gives rise to a variety of differentiated cell types, including neuronal and non-neuronal cells of peripheral ganglia (sensory and autonomic), pigment cells, and mesectodermal derivatives. Neural crest cells were taken from quail embryos at the level encompassing mesencephalon and metencephalon and the developmental potentials were evaluated by culturing them as single cells on 3T3 feeder layers. Such conditions proved to be particularly favorable for survival, proliferation, and differentiation of quail neural crest cells. Two hundred and forty-three clones that contained from 1 to greater than 20,000 cells were analyzed after 7-10 days of culture. Phenotype analysis provided evidence for the existence of cells with extremely diverse developmental potencies. A few committed neuron progenitors were observed as well as some pluripotent cells, able to differentiate into several types of neurons, non-neuronal cells, and melanocytes, and many cells with intermediate developmental potencies. These cloning experiments revealed the striking heterogeneity of migrating neural crest cells in terms of their capacity for differentiation and their potential for proliferation.
Characterization of content and chromatographic forms of neuropeptides in purified nerve varicosities prepared from guinea pig myenteric plexus.	Partially purified nerve varicosities (PV) prepared from guinea pig ileal myenteric plexus were found to contain, by radioimmunoassay, gastrin-releasing polypeptide (GRP), substance P (SP), galanin, Leu-enkephalin (LE), Met-enkephalin (ME), and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). SP was present in the highest concentration followed by, in descending order, ME, LE, VIP, GRP and galanin. On reverse-phase HPLC, SP-, LE- and ME-like immunoreactivity in the PV preparation eluted at retention times similar to their synthetic analogues, galanin-like immunoreactivity eluted at a retention time different from that of synthetic porcine galanin and VIP-like immunoreactivity eluted at the retention time of synthetic guinea pig VIP. GRP-like immunoreactivity, on reverse-phase HPLC, eluted at retention times close to that of synthetic porcine GRP-(1-27) and its major oxidized form. Evidence was obtained for the presence of an alpha-neurokinin-like immunoreactive entity and an unidentified SP-like immunoreactive entity in guinea pig myenteric plexus.
Immunoreactive substance P in the human ovary.	Although substance P has been demonstrated in the nonhuman ovary, it has not previously been identified in normal human ovarian tissue. We examined ovarian surgical specimens from 30 women for the presence of immunoreactive substance P. With the use of a specific radioimmunoassay, immunoreactive substance P was identified in these ovarian extracts. The geometric mean of the immunoreactive substance P concentration was 0.55 pg/mg wet weight (95% confidence limits 0.04 and 6.15). Thecal and stromal concentrations of immunoreactive substance P were greater than those in the corpora lutea and tunica albuginea. Large follicles had a lower concentration of immunoreactive substance P than did small follicles. We conclude that the neuropeptide substance P is present in some normal human ovaries and may be a modulator of ovarian function.
Relationship between levels of neuropeptide Substance P in periodontal disease and chronic pain: a literature review.	The aim of the current review was to investigate the relationship between levels of neuropeptide Substance P in periodontal disease and chronic pain. Substance P is a neuropeptide that is directly related with pain. In periodontal disease, it is expressed during the inflammatory process, and is one of the factors responsible for bone resorption. Studies have shown that Substance P levels are highest in the gingival crevicular fluid from sites with active periodontal disease and bone loss. The persistence of these substances could be sufficient to stimulate neurogenic inflammation in susceptible tissues, and cause pain. The scientific literature shows that Substance P expressed during periodontal disease can be a risk factor for patients with systemic inflammatory pathologies, such as chronic arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. Additional research is needed to confirm the participation of this substance in the origin of some types of chronic pain. 
Increasing substance P levels in serum and synovial tissues from patients with developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH).	The tachykininergic neurotransmitters have been proved to be involved in the inflammatory progress and chronic pain in series of disease. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the levels of substance P (SP) and its receptors NK-1 receptor (NK-1R) in both serum and synovial tissues of hip joint from patients with different stages of DDH, and to detect the possible correlation of serum SP levels with pain sensation and dysfunction of the hip joint.
High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of substance P-like arginine-containing peptide in rat brain by on-line post-column fluorescence derivatization with benzoin.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection is described for the determination of substance P, one of the neuropeptides, in the hypothalamus tissue of rat brain. The detection is based on on-line post-column fluorescence derivatization selective for arginine-containing peptides. The endogenous substance P-like arginine-containing peptide extracted from the tissue and [D-Phe11]-neurotensin as an internal standard were separated from various interfering substances on a reversed-phase column (TSKgel ODS-120T) by gradient elution with acetonitrile-phosphate buffer (pH 2.3). The peptides in the eluate were then automatically converted into fluorescent derivatives for detection by reaction with benzoin. Arginine-containing fragments produced by the enzyme reaction of substance P in the chromatographic fraction with trypsin were also detected, for the identification of the endogenous substance P-like arginine-containing peptide. The method was sensitive enough to permit the quantitative determination of the peptide at a concentration as low as 580 fmol/mg of protein in the brain homogenate. The concentration values of the substance P-like arginine-containing peptide in the tissue were 9.45 +/- 1.50 pmol/mg of protein (six determinations).
Innervation of the nasal mucosa of the guinea pig]	The autonomic and the peptidergic nerve fibers which control the blood flow and gland secretion in the nasal mucosa of the guinea pig were studied using histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques. There was a dense distribution of adrenergic nerve fibers (Adn) around the blood vessels, especially the vein, but a very sparse distribution in the glandular tissue. There was a dense distribution of cholinergic nerve fibers (Chn) both around the blood vessels and in the glandular tissue. The distribution of fibers containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) was dense in the glandular tissue but sparse around blood vessels and very sparse in the subepithelial layer. Fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were densely distributed around blood vessels, glandular tissue and the subepithelial layer. A moderate number of CGRP containing fibers were observed in the intraepithelial layer. Fibers containing substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) were sparsely distributed around blood vessels, glandular tissue and the subepithelial layer. Radioimmunoassay for NKA and SP in the nasal mucosa revealed a greater content both of NKA and SP in the nasal concha than in the nasal septum. There was a greater content of NKA than SP in both the nasal septum and the nasal concha, with a higher SP/NKA ratio in the nasal concha than in the nasal septum.
Origins of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing nerves in the internal carotid artery of rat.	An aggregation of substance P (SP)- and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-containing nerve cells (internal carotid mini-ganglion) is described at the junction between the greater superficial petrosal nerve and the internal carotid nerve close to the internal carotid artery. A retrograde tracer dye technique demonstrates that this ganglion and the trigeminal and superior vagal ganglia supply the internal carotid artery with SP/CGRP fibers at, above and below this level, respectively. Implications of this finding for cranial painful syndromes in man are discussed.
Neural and glandular localisation of substance P in Echinostoma caproni (Trematoda-Digenea).	Immunocytochemical studies using antibodies against various peptides were performed on Echinostoma caproni. Only the presence of substance P or a related peptide was clearly demonstrated in this digenetic trematode. In the central nervous system, substance P-immunoreactive neurons were few and constituted two populations according to their size. Labelled axons were observed in the ventral and dorsal nerve cords. Scarce, small neurons and fibres were detected in the peripheral nervous system. The comparative study of 6- and 14-day-old worms showed an overall increase in substance P-immunoreactive nerve structures in the latter. Strong immunoreactivity for substance P was found in prostate cells from 14-day-old worms, whereas none was observed in 6-day-old worms. Thus, positive immunoreactivity seemed to be related to sexual maturity.
Innervation of the thyroid. A study of the rat using retrograde tracing and immunocytochemistry.	The distribution and origin of the nerve fibers innervating the rat thyroid were studied by immunocytochemistry in experiments involving retrograde tracing and denervations. Nerve fibers containing noradrenaline (NA), neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), galanin (GAL), substance P (SP), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) occurred around blood vessels and follicles. Many of these transmitter candidates coexisted with each other in different combinations in different subpopulations of neurones. Injection of the retrograde tracer True Blue into the thyroid gland labelled cell bodies in the thyroid ganglion, the laryngeal ganglion, the superior cervical ganglion, the jugular-nodose ganglionic complex, the dorsal root ganglia (C2-C5) and the trigeminal ganglion. Judging from the number of labelled nerve cell bodies, the superior cervical ganglion and the thyroid ganglion contribute most to the thyroid innervation, while the laryngeal ganglion and the trigeminal ganglion contribute least. Results from denervation and tracer experiments indicate that all NA-containing and the majority of NPY-containing nerve fibers in the thyroid derive from the superior cervical ganglion. All VIP- and a minor population of NPY- and GAL-containing fibers in the thyroid gland originate in the thyroid ganglion. Nerve fibers containing GAL, SP and/or CGRP emanate from the jugular, cervical dorsal root and/or trigeminal ganglia. Together the findings indicate that several ganglia project to the thyroid and that many neuropeptides may be involved in the control of thyroid activity.
Morphological characterization of substance P-like immunoreactive amacrine cells in the anuran retina.	Using substance P immunohistochemistry it was possible to demonstrate a class of morphologically homogeneous group of neurons in the inner nuclear layer (INL) of the retina of two anuran species: Xenopus laevis and Bufo marinus. The number of cells with substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI) was about 250 and 800 in juvenile and 600 and 2500 in adult Xenopus and Bufo, respectively, SP-LI cells had a small soma with one primary dendrite having up to four slender branches, located in the vitreal sublamina of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). Mean dendritic field sizes were 0.12 and 0.30 mm2 in juvenile and 0.29 and 0.65 mm2 in adult Xenopus and Bufo, respectively. The density of SP-LI cells was 40/mm2 in juvenile and 24/mm2 in adult Xenopus compared with 20/mm2 in juvenile and 13/mm2 in adult Bufo. Nearest neighbour distance measurements indicated that SP-LI cells were randomly distributed across the entire retina in both species. The location and the morphology of SP-LI cells indicated that they correspond to a subclass of wide-field amacrine cells, similar to types 20 and 21 described by Golgi techniques in the cat.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity in sympathetic ganglion from toad.	Substance P-like immunoreactivity cellular in toad sympathetic ganglia was studied in normal and capsaicin-treated ganglia. In the eighth sympathetic ganglion substance P-like immunoreactive are found in mast cells and SIF cells. The effect of substance P (0.001-0.003 mM) caused increase of compound action potential during tetanical stimulation (50 Hz by 40 sec.) and post-tetanic potentiation (0.1 Hz). Our results show that substance P facilitates synaptic transmission in the sympathetic ganglia from Caudiverbera caudiverbera.
Projections of neurons with neuromedin U-like immunoreactivity in the small intestine of the guinea-pig.	Neuromedin U immunoreactivity was located histochemically in the guinea-pig small intestine. Projections of immunoreactive neurons were determined by analysing patterns of degeneration following nerve lesions. The co-localization of neuromedin U immunoreactivity with immunoreactivity for substance P, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide and calbindin was also investigated. Neuromedin U immunoreactivity was found in nerve cells in the myenteric and submucous plexuses and in nerve fibres in these ganglionated plexuses, around submucous arterioles and in the mucosa. Reactive fibres did not supply the muscle layers. Most reactive nerve cells in the myenteric ganglia had Dogiel type-II morphology and in many there was co-localization of calbindin, although some Dogiel type-II neuromedin U neurons were calbindin negative. Lesion studies suggest that these myenteric neurons project circumferentially to local myenteric ganglia. Projections from myenteric neurons also run anally in the myenteric plexus, while other projections extend to submucous ganglia, and still further projections run from the intestine to provide terminals in the coeliac ganglia. In the submucous ganglia neuromedin U was co-localized in three populations of nerve cells: (i) those with vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity, (ii) neurons containing neuropeptide Y, and (iii) neurons containing substance P. Each of these populations sends nerve fibres to the mucosa. Neuromedin U immunoreactivity is thus located in a variety of neurons serving different functions in the intestine and therefore probably does not have a single role in intestinal physiology.
Substance P and gastrin releasing peptide in bovine mesenteric lymphatic vessels: chemical characterization and action.	Alcoholic extracts of bovine mesenteric lymphatic vessels were assayed for the presence of SP, GRP, VIP, PHI, GIP and NT using specific radioimmunoassays. SP and GRP immunoreactivities were detected at concentrations of 190 +/- 20 and 1,000 +/- 130 pg.g-1, respectively. No significant levels of immunoreactivity were detected for any of the other peptides. SP and GRP immunoreactivities coeluted with their synthetic counterparts from both Sephadex G-50 and reversed phase HPLC columns. Synthetic SP (10(-9)-10(-7) M) and the naturally occurring analogue of GRP, bombesin (10(-9)-10(-7) M), increased spontaneous contraction rate in isolated vessel segments. This excitatory effect was not blocked by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine (3 x 10(-6) M).
Distribution of substance P in the rat gastrointestinal tract--lack of effect of capsaicin pretreatment.	A new method for extraction of immunoreactive substance P (I-SP) from rat intestine including pulverization of tissue frozen in liquid nitrogen and extraction with acid acetone is described. Using this method, amounts of I-SP in the rat intestine were found to be higher than previously reported. The highest concentrations of I-SP were found in the small intestine. Capsaicin pretreatment of newborn or adult rats had no effect on intestinal I-SP concentrations indicating that intrinsic SP neurones are capsaicin-insensitive.
Peptidergic nerves persist after jejunal autotransplantation: an experimental study in the piglet.	The gut has been shown to contain four types of peptidergic nerves besides the adrenergic and cholinergic ones. They store substance P, enkephalin, somatostatin and VIP (vasoactive intestinal peptide) respectively. It is not previously known which of the neurons are intrinsic or extrinsic to the gut wall. Jejunal autotransplantation was performed in 10 piglets. This procedure implies degeneration of the extrinsic neurons (extrinsic denervation). The transplants were examined 1 to 4 mo postoperatively with histochemical techniques for demonstration of the intramural adrenergic and the different peptidergic nerves. The distribution of the peptidergic nerves was not changed indicating that they all originate within the gut. Following extrinsic denervation adrenergic nerves on the contrary were completely missing.
A modified peroxidase--antiperoxidase procedure for improved localization of tissue antigens: localization of substance P in rat spinal cord.	A procedure is presented which modifies the Sternberger peroxidase--antiperoxidase (PAP) technique in order to visualize additional amounts of immunodeposits representing the antigen substance (SP) in 5-micrometer paraffin tissue sections of rat spinal cord. For increased sensitivity, the new procedure utilizes a "double bridge" and diaminobenzidine in low pH buffer. The modifications have made possible the visualization of immunoreactive beaded processes and punctate bodies, which were then traced to determine patterns of SP circuitry. Using the modified PAP procedure, the greatest number of immunoreactive processes appeared in the dorsal horn, where some punctate bodies and varicose processes could be seen adjacent to the myelinated afferent fiber bundles that penetrate the substantia gelatinosa as dorsal root collaterals. Additional immunoreactive processes and punctate bodies coursed through the myelinated afferent fiber bundles that penetrate the dorsolateral white matter, and extend into the intermediolateral gray region. Substance P was also identified within immunoreactive processes found in Rexed's laminae V and VI, as well as the central canal region, the dorsal gray commissure, and the ventral gray and white commissures. Since the modifications improved the visualization of SP-containing processes in sparsely populated regions of the spinal cord, especially the ventral horn, they may be useful in demonstrating other antigens that normally occur in small quantities within tissues.
Immunohistochemical studies of peptidergic neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord.	The indirect immunofluorescence technique was used to localize substance P, somatostatin, methionine--enkephalin, neurotensin, and oxytocin in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. The unique distribution of each peptide is described and the relative amount of each peptide in laminae I--III of the dorsal horn and the dorsal part of the lateral funniculus qualitatively assessed. Colchicine treatment and dorsal rhizotomy were used to determine, in part, the origin of immunoreactive fibers and terminals observed in the dorsal horn.
Immunohistochemical localization of the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes, substance P and enkephalin in the human fetal sympathetic ganglion.	The human fetal sympathetic ganglia were studied using the indirect peroxidase-antiperoxidase PAP method for immunocytochemical demonstration of three catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) as well as the neuropeptides leucine (Leu5)-enkephalin and substance P. The neuroblasts of the ganglia showed intense peroxidase immunoreactivity for TH, moderate reaction to DBH, and no reaction to PNMT. The small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells situated along the blood vessels also showed positive labelling for only two enzymes, TH and BDH. The immunocytochemical localization of these enzymes suggests that both neuroblasts and SIF cells synthesize noradrenalin. Neither the neuroblasts nor SIF cells showed a reaction to substance P, and only the SIF cells contained enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. The role of enkephalin in the noradrenalin-containing SIF cells is unknown, but may be related to neuromodulation of ganglionic transmission.
Peptide-containing neurons intrinsic to the gut wall. An experimental study in the pig.	Nerve fibers containing substance P, VIP, enkephalin or somatostatin are numerous in the porcine gut wall. They are particularly numerous in the submucosal and myenteric plexuses where peptide-containing cell bodies are also observed. Peptide-containing nerve fibers occur also in the vagus nerves, suggesting that the gut receives and extrinsic supply of peptidergic nerves. The extrinsic contribution to the peptide-containing nerve supply of the gut wall has not yet been quantitatively assessed. In an attempt to clarify this question pigs were subjected to bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Another group of animals was subjected to complete extrinsic denervation by autotransplantation of a jejunal segment. The pigs were killed at various time intervals after the operations; the longest time interval studied was four months. Following vagotomy the innervation pattern of the jejunum appeared completely unaffected. Following complete extrinsic denervation the adrenergic nerve fibers disappeared, while peptide-containing and acetylcholinesterase-positive nerve fibers remained apparently unaltered. This was confirmed chemically in the case of substance P. The motor activity of smooth muscle from the jejunum was studied in vitro. At low stimulation frequencies the smooth muscle from control jejunum responded by relaxation; upon cessation of stimulation a contraction occurred. With increasing stimulation frequencies the duration of the relaxation decreased; at high frequency stimulation only a contraction was recorded. In the autotransplant low frequency stimulation induced no or only a weak relaxation; high frequency stimulation induced contraction. After cholinergic and adrenergic blockade, the muscle responded with relaxation at all frequencies; the response was similar in innervated and denervated specimens. On the whole, the effects of extrinsic denervation on the motor activity of smooth muscle from porcine jejunum were minor, possibly reflecting the high degree of autonomy of the gut.
Immunoreactive substance P content in median eminence and pituitary gland during oestrus, dioestrus and after anterior hypothalamic deafferentation.	The aim of the present study was to find a relation between the Substance P (SP) content in the median eminence and the pituitary gland in rats and hypothalamic regulaton of the oestrus cycle. SP content was measured by radioimmunoassay in female rat pituitary and median eminence during oestrus, dioestrus and after anterior hypothalamic deafferentation. SP content in rat's pituitary did not vary significantly among individual groups of animals. The greatest average SP content in rat's median eminence was found in dioestrus. Both during cyclic and constant oestrus resulting from anterior hypothalamic deafferentation SP content in median eminence was lower than in dioestrus. This fact indicates the possibility of SP involvement in the control of cyclic LH-RH release from hypothalamus.
Immunohistochemical studies on enteric substance P of extrinsic origin in the cat.	The origin of substance P (SP)-like immunoreactivity in the Auerbach's plexuses of the esophagus, stomach duodenum was examined in the cat. The intensity of the fluorescence and the area of distribution of SP-like immunoreactivity in the Auerbach's plexuses of the cardiac part of the esophagus and the corpus of the stomach were markedly reduced by bilateral ligation of the abdominal vagus nerve, while little change occurred in the antrum of the stomach and the duodenum. After splanchnic nerve ligation or celiac ganglionectomy, the SP-like immunoreactivity in the Auerbach's plexuses of the antrum of the stomach and the duodenum was markedly reduced, whereas that in the esophagus and the corpus of the stomach was only slightly attenuated. Intense SP-like immunoreactivity was observed in the portions of the abdominal vagus and splanchnic nerve cranial to the ligation. This the Auerbach's plexuses of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum were considered to contain SP transported through the vagus and splanchnic nerve. It was also indicated experimentally that the SP-like immunoreactive fibers in the auerbach's plexus arose from the nodose and spinal ganglia as well as from the dorsal vagus nucleus in the medulla oblongata.
Central nervous system immunoreactive somatostatin, substance P and metenkephalin concentrations in experimental hepatic encephalopathy in the rat.	Immunoreactive somatostatin, substance P and met-enkephalin concentrations were measured in various regions of the rat brain 65 hours after portacaval shunt and compared with concentrations in sham-operated animals. No significant difference was detected in any of the three peptides in the regions studied, suggesting that these peptides do not play a role ion the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
The absence of substance P from guinea pig auditory structures.	The following auditory structures were examined for Substance-P-Containing cells and fibres using a monoclonal antibody: organ of Corti, spiral ganglion, auditory nerve, cochlear nucleus. No substance P was detected in any of these structures. Giving due consideration to the sensitivity and specificity of this method of detection, it was concluded that Substance P has no function in the lower auditory system of the guinea pig.
Localization of substance P-like immunoreactivity within the monkey retina.	Substance P (SP)--like immunoreactivity has been localized to distinct retinal cell populations in the primate Macaca nemestrina by means of immunohistochemical techniques with a well-characterized monoclonal antiserum directed to SP. The specificity of the immunoreactive staining was established by absorption of the antiserum with 10 micro M synthetic SP. Specific SP-like immunoreactivity was observed within varicose processes located in the outer plexiform layer, inner nuclear layer (INL), and in three bands within the inner plexiform layer (IPL). SP-immunoreactive somata were located in the proximal INL, IPL, and ganglion cell layer. These studies have thus identified SP-containing amacrine cells, interstitial amacrine cells, and displayed amacrine cells. In addition, these studies suggest the existence of SP-containing interplexiform cells and perhaps ganglion cells.
Substance P--positive structures in rat spinal cord--a longitudinal bundle ventral to the central canal.	Using the immunoperoxidase method, the distribution of substance P (SP)-positive structures was studied in different levels of the rat spinal cord. In general, the density of SP-positive sites proved to be higher in lumbar and sacral than in cervical and thoracic segments. In transverse sections, the density was highest in lamina I, and decreased in dorso-ventral direction. Following colchicine injection into the spinal cord, many SP-positive cell bodies could be visualized in the dorsal and lateral horn as well as in the lateral spinal nucleus. In front of the central canal, an SP-immunoreactive longitudinal bundle (FLCV) showing close relation to the ependyma, extends throughout the whole length of the spinal cord. This bundle, which also displays acetylcholinesterase activity, electronmicroscopically consists of thin myelinated and unmyelinated fibers, some of which containing numerous synaptic vesicles. SP-positive fibers penetrating between ependymal cells and abuting on the luminal surface of the central canal probably arise from the FLCV.
Peptides, the limbic lobe and schizophrenia.	The human brain contains several peptides with probable synaptic actions, some of which form complex neuronal networks in the limbic lobe (amygdala, hippocampus and temporal cortex). A limbic lobe abnormality has been postulated in schizophrenia on the basis of similarities between schizophrenic symptoms and symptoms in cases of known limbic pathology. Cholecystokinin (CCK), somatostatin (SRIF), neurotensin (NT), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and substance P (SP)-like immunoreactivities were measured by radioimmunoassay in 10 brain areas of 14 schizophrenics and 12 controls. In the schizophrenic group symptoms had been rated in life and the group was divided into Type I (n = 7) and Type II (n = 7) subgroups on the basis of the absence or presence of morbid negative symptoms. In control brains each peptide showed a characteristic distribution with high levels in cortex (CCK), limbic lobe (SOM, NT, VIP) or striatal areas (SP) and low levels of each of the peptides in thalamus. Significant (P less than 0.05) differences between groups were: reductions of CCK and SOM in hippocampus and CCK in amygdala in Type II schizophrenics, and CCK in the temporal cortex of the total schizophrenic group; and elevations of VIP in amygdala in Type I schizophrenics and of SP in the hippocampus in the total schizophrenic group. The findings could not be explained by variables such as age, delay between death and necropsy or to neuroleptic medication. These clinical-state related alterations in the peptide content of the limbic system in schizophrenia may illuminate the pathophysiological basis of the disease, particularly the distinction between Type I and II syndromes.
The distribution of putative neurotransmitters in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat.	Immunocytochemical techniques were used to examine the distribution of several putative peptidergic and aminergic neurotransmitters within the various subdivisions of the rat lateral geniculate nucleus (LG). Neuronal cell bodies, immunoreactive for enkephalin and neuropeptide Y and neuronal fibers immunoreactive for enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and 5-HT were each localized within distinct subdivisions of the LG. These results suggest that the anatomical and functional differences of LG neurons are also reflected by differences in the transmitters which they utilize.
Neocortical substance P neurons in the baboon: an immunohistochemical finding.	Substance P-like immunoreactive (SP-LI) neurons have been demonstrated, by an avidin-biotin immunohistochemical method, in several neocortical areas in the brains of baboons. These neurons are mostly small in size, and are of many different somatic shapes, including bipolar and multipolar types. They occur in laminae III-VI but are most common in laminae V and VI. It is postulated that these neurons could contribute to previously-described cortical SP-LI fiber networks.
Neuropeptides in Alzheimer type dementia.	Five neuropeptides (cholecystokinin (CCK), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), somatostatin (SRIF), neurotensin (NT) and substance P (SP)) were measured in 14 brain areas (4 cortical areas, hippocampus, amygdala, 3 striatal areas, 2 thalamic areas and 3 subcortical areas-- septum, substantia innominata and hypothalamus) in 12 brains with neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer type change and in 13 control brains. Choline acetyltransferase (CAT) activity was assessed in 6 of these areas. Levels of SRIF, but not those of the other peptides, were reduced in several cortical areas in Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD). The distribution and magnitude of the reduction in SRIF were less than that of CAT activity and the temporal cortex was the only region in which there was a significant relationship between CAT and SRIF deficits. Peptide levels were unchanged in hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus and striatum (except for an increase in SP in the putamen). SRIF levels were increased in substantia innominata in ATD. NT and SRIF were significantly, and VIP and SP non-significantly, reduced in the septum in ATD. Thus, apart from these alterations in the septum, SRIF was the only neuropeptide for which major changes were identified and these did not follow either the pattern of neuropathological change (e.g. in amygdala and hippocampus) or of CAT deficits (e.g. in substantia innominata).
Endogenous substance P inhibits the expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone during a chronic inflammatory stress.	We have investigated the effects of a chronic inflammatory stress on substance P (SP) levels in the hypothalami of rats given adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA). Fourteen days after injection of Mycobacterium butyricum, substance P concentrations in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and median eminence/arcuate nucleus were significantly increased. In AA rats injected intraperitoneally with the specific neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist RP67580, plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations were significantly elevated, and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the PVN was increased compared to the AA group which received saline alone. The increases in hypothalamic SP in AA, together with the data demonstrating that HPA axis activity is enhanced in AA following injection of a SP antagonist, are consistent with the hypothesis that SP is acting as an inhibitor of CRH expression in this model of chronic inflammatory stress.
Effects of surgical denervation on substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in adjuvant arthritis.	The occurrence of substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was assessed in the ankle joints and dorsal root ganglia (L2-L6) by immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay (RIA) after unilateral sciatic nerve section in adjuvant arthritis. Nerve section in arthritic rats had no clear-cut effect on warmth, redness, and swelling of ankle joints, but significantly affected the occurrence of SP and CGRP. Immunohistochemical analysis showed an almost complete disappearance of SP-positive fibers in the ipsilateral ankle joint in normal rats after axotomy, whereas in arthritic rats occasional SP-positive fibers remained. In dorsal root ganglia, only occasional SP-positive cells could be detected in normal and arthritic rats after axotomy. A similar but somewhat less pronounced effect of axotomy was noted for neuronal CGRP-LI. RIA showed a decrease in SP in ankle joints by 45% in normal rats and 58% in arthritic rats; the decrease in CGRP was 41% and 47%, respectively. In dorsal root ganglia, the decrease in SP after surgical denervation was 25% in normal rats and 54% in arthritic rats; the decrease in CGRP was 18% and 27%, respectively. The tissue concentrations of SP and CGRP in ipsilateral ankle joints and dorsal root ganglia were consistently correlated in normal as well as arthritic rats. The present study shows that an interruption of the nerve supply to joints cannot fully prevent the development of arthritis, although it significantly reduces the occurrence of sensory neuropeptides.
Parallel bioassay of PG-SPI, an amphibian acidic SP-like peptide, mammalian basic substance P, and neurokinins A and B on in vitro and in vivo test systems.	In vitro and in vivo test systems were used to compare the biological activities of substance P and the neurokinins A and B with those of a newly isolated substance P-like acidic peptide, PG-SPI (pGlu-Pro-Asn-Pro-Asp-Glu-Phe-Phe-Gly-Leu-Met-NH2). On nearly all the isolated smooth muscle preparations tested, PG-SPI appeared only slightly more potent than SP, but on guinea pig trachea it was 50 times more potent. The in vitro spasmogenic effect of PG-SPI on guinea pig trachea was inhibited by the NK1 receptor antagonist, CP 96,345. In in vivo tests, intracerebroventricularly injected PG-SPI was about 20 times more potent than SP in inhibiting gastric acid secretion and emptying in rats. Tests with antagonists showed that CP 96,345 reduced PG-SPI-induced inhibition of gastric emptying and the NK2 receptor antagonist, MEN 10,376, sharply blocked PG-SPI-induced inhibition of gastric acid secretion. These findings fit poorly into the current classification of tachykinin receptors and suggest that the acidic substance P-like peptide is a valuable tool for studying the functional role of other tachykinin receptor subtypes.
Development of substance P immunoreactivity in the mouse vomeronasal organ.	We investigated the development of substance P immunoreactivity in mouse vomeronasal organs in embryos, juveniles, and adults. In all stages, substance P fibers were found in the receptor-free epithelial area, but never in the neuroepithelium. Substance P fibers were found sparsely in the lamina propria of 15-day-old embryos. Although buds of the vomeronasal glands in the cavernous tissue were observed in 17-day-old embryos, and gradually grew in size and numbers, the substance P fibers around them decreased after about the 13th day. Thus, substance P may be a trophic factor for the development of the vomeronasal glands in the cavernous tissue. We first recognized substance P fibers reaching the surface of the receptor-free epithelium in 13-day-old pups. In 21-day-old mice, substance P fibers were as well developed as in adult mice. Considering the development of the substance P fibers in the receptor-free epithelium and the cavernous tissue, they probably cause the vasodilation of the cavernous tissue via local axon reflexes. These structures may then act as a defense system, eliminating noxious stimulus substances sucked into the vomeronasal organ.
Substance P inactivation by aqueous humor.	Degradation of substance P was studied in dog and rabbit aqueous humor. Substance P inactivation was followed by the bioassay using the isolated guinea pig ileum. Both rabbit and dog aqueous humor inactivated substance P. Rabbit aqueous humor inactivated the peptide faster than dog aqueous humor. Inactivation of substance P by rabbit aqueous humor was inhibited by diisopropylfluorophosphate while other enzyme inhibitors tested (captopril, phosphoramidon, mersalyl acid and p-chloromercuriphenyl-sulphonate) were practically ineffective or had a partial inhibitory effect. Our results suggest that serine proteases, rather than other peptidases, play a major role in the inactivation of substance P in aqueous humor.
Substance P-immunoreactive neurons of the bovine forestomach mucosa: their presumptive role in a sensory mechanism.	Substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers and cell bodies were examined in the forestomach mucosa of the calf and cow pretreated with colchicine, using thick (100 microns) floating sections. Intraepithelial nerve fibers were identified, appearing only rarely in the rumen and reticulum, and completely absent from the omasum. Nerve fibers were observed in the lamina propria of all the regions of the forestomach examined. A few thin nerve fibers were seen in the core of the ruminal papillae of the calf, whereas in the cow they appeared very coarse in nature. Flocculent and complicated nerve fiber networks were seen in the connective tissue of the reticular papillae. Mucosal nerve fibers formed a peculiar glomerulus-like architecture in the omasal papillae of the calf, while in the cow, the nerve fibers were largely restricted in distribution to the vicinity of the epithelium within the connective tissue pegs. Immunoreactive nerve cell bodies were found in the ruminal atrium, the dorsal sac and the ventral sac of the rumen of the calf and in the reticulum of both the calf and cow. Some of these neurons exhibited processes that appeared to course toward the papillae. In total, substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers and cell bodies were more abundant in the calf than in the cow. These distributions demonstrate that the neural circuitry of the bovine forestomach contains substance P immunoreactivity in the mucosa as well as in the muscle layer, pointing to its possible importance in the regulation of the forestomach function. Substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers were numerous in the reticular papillae of the calf and cow and in the omasal papillae of the calf. The positive fibers at these localities may act as mucosal receptors.
Cytochemical observations on the nervous system of adult Corrigia vitta.	Adult Corrigia vitta (Trematoda: Dicrocoelidea) inhabit the pancreatic duct of the fieldmouse, Apodemus sylvaticus, where, in numbers, they may occlude the duct lumen and prevent the flow of pancreatic secretions. Enzyme histochemical and immunocytochemical techniques, in conjunction with confocal scanning laser microscopy, have been used to examine the localization and distribution of cholinergic, serotoninergic (5-HT, serotonin) and peptidergic components of the nervous system of the adult worm. All three classes of neuronal mediator showed a common pattern of staining, occurring throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. Of the four peptide immunoreactivities (IR) demonstrated (pancreatic polypeptide (PP), peptide YY (PYY), substance P (SP), FMRFamide), PP-IR was the most predominant, occurring not only within the central ganglia and longitudinal nerve cords, but also in subtegumental plexuses and in fibres associated with the egg-forming apparatus. PYY and FMRFamide IRs were evident throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems; FMRFamide immunostaining, in particular, highlighted innervation of the ootype and immunoreactive cell bodies around the Mehlis' gland. Both SP- and 5-HT-IRs were restricted to the cerebral ganglia, ventral nerve cords and associated cell bodies. The distribution patterns of these peptides and 5-HT within the nervous system of C. vitta suggest they are likely to function as neuronal mediators. PP, PYY and FMRFamide may also serve in regulating egg production.
Colocalization of vasoactive substances in the endothelial cells of human umbilical vessels.	Human umbilical vessels are unique in lacking any innervation; thus endothelial cells may play the major role in local control and regulation of the blood flow. In the present study, we examined ultrathin sections of cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells and tissue preparations of umbilical vein and artery, immunostained by the post-embedding colloidal gold double-labelling technique. We observed colocalization of atrial natriuretic peptide and neuropeptide Y, as well as colocalization of atrial natriuretic peptide and neuropeptide Y with other vasoactive substances, namely, vasoactive intestinal peptide, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and arginine vasopressin. The functional significance of the colocalization of these vasoactive substances in the human umbilical vessel endothelial cells is discussed.
Peptidergic nerves in the ureter.	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and substance P were demonstrated in the pig ureter by immunohistochemical techniques. Nerves containing these materials were related mainly to the smooth muscle layer in the normal and obstructed ureter. In isolated ureteral segments, VIP caused relaxation at doses exceeding 0.18 micrograms/ml, with no significant difference seen in the effect on normal and obstructed ureter. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide may play a role in the regulation of ureteral smooth muscle tone.
Severe constipation with diffuse intestinal myenteric hyperganglionosis.	The authors report a case of neuronal intestinal dysplasia in a 6-year-old girl. The disease is characterized by hyperplastic ganglia throughout the large and small intestine, associated with severe constipation. To better understand the pathophysiology of this disease the authors investigated the histopathologic, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical characteristics of the intestinal tissue in this case. The hyperganglionosis was associated with immunohistochemical findings of intact expression of the neuropeptides controlling the peristaltic reflex, through lower expression of calcitonin-gene related peptide. With the recent progress in our understanding of the neural regulation of gastrointestinal function, it may now be possible to begin to understand the complex pathophysiological mechanisms underlying gastrointestinal motility disorders.
Morphology and neurochemistry of the pelvic, and paracervical ganglia.	Autonomic ganglia are relays in the distribution of nerve fibres in the peripheral nervous system. In the pelvis there are local ganglion formations in the pathway of nerve fibres to and from pelvic viscera and vasculature: in rodents these are the male anterior major pelvic ganglion and the female paracervical ganglion (Frankenhäuser's ganglion). They are unusual in that they contain both sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglion cells. Homologous formations occur in humans. Since the best studied examples of these ganglionic formations are rodent ganglia the latter are reviewed in terms of their gross anatomy, cell morphology and immunohistochemistry. The synaptology, and neurotransmitter and neuropeptide contents of the neuronal perikarya and nerve terminals, of the ganglia are discussed in relation to the concepts of coexistence and chemical coding in autonomic ganglia in general. The neuropeptide content of the nerve fibres projecting to their visceral targets is described and discussed in functional terms. Conclusions are drawn with respect to the contributions made by study of these ganglia to further understanding of the organisation of the autonomic nervous system in general. The possible link between the autonomic nervous system and the endocrine system is discussed with respect to control of pelvic visceral activities.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. Digestive hormones in the screening]	Detection of subjects from a multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 family must rest on clinical, biochemical and radiological data, since study of the genome is unable to detect these subjects. In the new family described here, 6 out of the 14 subjects explored were affected. One had a confirmed pancreatic endocrine tumour and in 3 others a pancreatic endocrine tumour was highly probable, since insulin and glucagon levels, as well as ultrasonic exploration of the pancreas were pathological. Measurements of gastrointestinal hormones gave normal results in all cases. We conclude that to detect this endocrine neoplasia in subjects at risk it seems necessary to measure plasma insulin levels and perform an abdominal ultrasonography.
The serotoninergic bulbospinal system and brainstem-spinal cord content of serotonin-, TRH-, and substance P-like immunoreactivity in the aged rat with special reference to the spinal cord motor nucleus.	The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) containing bulbospinal pathway was studied with immunohistochemical (IF) and chemical techniques in 2-3 and 30 months old male Sprague-Dawley rats. The coexisting neuropeptides substance P (SP), thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and galanin were also analysed. Furthermore, the expression of mRNA encoding aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), prepro-TRH, and preprotachykinin (prepro-SP) was analysed with in situ hybridization (ISH) in the midline raphé nuclei inthe lower brainstem. The results showed a decreased number of axonal 5HT fibers with a normal morphology in the ventral horn of the aged rat lumbosacral spinal cord, and several 5HT immunoreactive (IR) fibers with an aberrant morphology, suggestive of axonal degeneration, were intermingled. This was evident in both the dorsal and ventral horn of the spinal cord. The 5HT-IR fibers with an aberrant morphology usually also contained TRH-and/or SP- and/or galanin-like immunoreactivity (LI) in the ventral horn. These signs of degeneration were clearly less evident in the thoracic and cervical spinal cord segments. Moreover, these changes varied between aged litter-mates. This was in agreement with behavioural signs of motor disturbances, present in about 40% of the aged rats and which in all cases were confined to the hindlimbs. Chemical analyses disclosed significantly lower levels of TRH-LI and, in particular, SP-LI in both the ventral and dorsal quandrants of the spinal cord in the aged rat compared to young adults. The differences were largest in the lumbar regions of the spinal cord. Corresponding analysis of 5HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA) in the same tissue specimens revealed largely unaltered levels of 5HT and a slight increase in 5HIAA, indicating the possibility of an increased 5HT turnover in the aged rat spinal cord. Neurons in nucleus raphé obscurus and nucleus raphé pallidus were immunoreactive to 5HT, and after pretreatment with colchicine to TRH-, SP-, and galanin-LI as well. There was no obvious difference in number of labeled cells, or labeling intensity, between colchicine-treated young adult and aged rats, although, in the corresponding region of medulla oblongata, chemical analysis disclosed significantly lower levels of 5HT, TRH, and, in particular, SP in untreated aged rats. In contrast, in situ hybridization analysis revealed increased mRNA levels encoding prepro-TRH and prepro-SP in old rats, while mRNA content encoding AADC mRNA was similar in young adult and aged rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Substance P containing polymer implants protect against striatal excitotoxicity.	The present study examined whether substance P (Sub P) could protect against quinolinic acid (QA)-induced lesions of the striatum, as measured by a loss of striatal D1 dopamine receptors. Sub P was extruded into Evac polymer rods for slow release. One 4 mm rod segment was implanted unilaterally into the striatum of each rat. One week later, animals received a striatal injection of QA (50, 75 or 100 nmol/microliters) medial to the implanted rod. Controls received QA alone. Three weeks later, there was a dose-dependent loss of D1 receptors following QA. Sub P rods protected the striatum from QA-induced D1 receptor loss at this time. These results support the neuroprotection role of Sub P on excitotoxicity.
Brain cholecystokinin octopeptide (CCK-8) concentrations: effect of tryptophan and other serotonergic agents.	The effects of 1-week drug treatment on the brain contents of neuropeptides were investigated. The cholecystokinin (CCK) concentrations in the hypothalamus were significantly decreased by tryptophan treatment but not by imipramine and cyproheptadine, which changed the serotonergic function. Proglumide, the CCK antagonist, induced in the hypothalamic and hippocampal-striatal areas an increase in CCK concentration, which was not reversed in the presence of tryptophan. Dynorphin and substance P(SP) concentrations were also modified by proglumide treatment.
Subpopulations of neonatal rat sensory neurons express functional neurotransmitter receptors which elevate intracellular calcium.	We have attempted to identify which subpopulations of rat sensory neurons possess functional neurotransmitter receptors which elevate the free concentration of intracellular calcium. Subpopulations of sensory neurons were identified using three accepted criteria: (i) the distribution and proportion of neurons with differing somatic diameters; (ii) the expression of substance P-like immunoreactivity; and (iii) the responsiveness of each neuron to capsaicin. The total neuronal population was primarily grouped into three classes according to somatic diameter and defined as small- (< 17 microns), intermediate- (17-25 microns) and large- (> 25 microns) sized neurons. It was not possible to distinguish between small and intermediate-sized neurons since a similar percentage of each class expressed substance P-like immunoreactivity or sensitivity to capsaicin. Large-sized neurons did not possess these characteristics and, therefore, represented a distinct neuronal population. In single, intact neurons of differing diameter, the ability of a variety of receptor agonists to elevate the free concentration of intracellular calcium was determined using the calcium-sensitive indicator, Fura-2. Local application of capsaicin, adenosine, bradykinin, ATP and substance P elevated the resting level of the free concentration of intracellular calcium in small and intermediate-sized neurons. The large-sized neurons were unresponsive to these receptor agonists with the exception of ATP. The response to ATP was relatively transient in nature and did not differ between neurons of differing somatic diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization with an external ion source Fourier-transform mass spectrometer.	Mass spectra of several model oligopeptides (substance P, [Arg8]-vasopressin, tyrothricin, and the B-chain of bovine insulin) have been obtained with a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) source and a custom-designed Fourier-transform mass spectrometer (FTMS). The MALDI source is outside the magnetic field in a separately pumped external chamber, and ions are injected through the fringing fields of the magnet and into the FTMS analyzer cell by a long quadrupole mass filter that is operated in the RF-only mode. A large window on the ion source housing makes it easy to point and focus the laser beam onto the sample probe tip. A good quality mass spectrum is achieved for 0.5 pmol of substance P, and the mass resolution for the B-chain of bovine insulin is 19,000.
Protective function of extrinsic sensory neurons in acute rabbit experimental colitis.	Sensory nerves appear to have a protective effect against acute injury in the gastric mucosa. Their function in the intestine is unclear.
Beta-endorphin concentrations in brain areas and peritoneal macrophages in rats susceptible and resistant to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis: a possible relationship between tumor necrosis factor alpha and opioids in the disease.	Since the central nervous system and neuropeptides modulate immune functions, we investigated whether the different susceptibility of Lewis and Brown Norway rats to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis could also reflect differences in beta-endorphin and substance P concentrations in brain areas and macrophages during the development of the disease. We show that beta-endorphin concentrations increase much more in the hypothalamus and macrophages of Lewis rats during the development of the disease, while the increase is much lower or absent in Brown Norway rats. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha seems to play an important role in this difference. The administration of the opiate receptor antagonist naltrexone worsens the development of the disease, suggesting that the increase of the opioid beta-endorphin might represent a mechanism to downregulate the immune response. In both strains, the concentrations of substance P do not change.
Somatostatin analogues suppress the inflammatory reaction in vivo.	Somatostatin (Sms) and its agonist analogues inhibit the secretory activities of endocrine and neural cells. Recent studies have suggested that Sms has significant immunomodulatory properties. In this study, we examine the effects of two Sms octapeptide analogues on the inflammatory reaction in vivo. BIM 23014 (Somatulin) and Sandostatin were administered to male Sprague-Dawley rats subject to carrageenin-induced aseptic inflammation, at doses of 2-10 micrograms/rat, given either systemically or locally. Animals were killed 7 h after the induction of the inflammation, and the inflammatory exudates were aspirated and quantitated in terms of volume and leukocyte concentration. Sms analogues, administered via either route, significantly reduced the volume and the leukocyte concentration of the exudate in a time- and dose-dependent fashion. In corroboration of these, immunohistochemical evaluation of the levels of local inflammatory mediators, such as immunoreactive (Ir) TNF-alpha, Irsubstance P, and Ircorticotropin-releasing hormone, was inhibited significantly by Sms analogue treatment. These findings suggest that Sms analogues have significant antiinflammatory effects in vivo, associated with suppression of proinflammatory cytokines and neuropeptides. Furthermore, these data suggest that Sms agonists may be useful in the control of inflammatory reaction.
Neuropeptide-containing nerves in painful hypertrophic human scar tissue.	Specimens of hypertrophic scar tissue (n = 9), non-hypertrophic, flat scar tissue (n = 5) and control skin (n = 3) were obtained from eight adult females (aged 22-56) and three adult males (aged 22-59). The specimens were studied histologically and immunohistochemically for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neuropeptide Y, calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, somatostatin, [Met]enkephalin, [Leu]enkephalin, and the enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The non-hypertrophic scar tissues were not dissimilar to the control tissue, but contained connective tissue in bundles with a greater number of collagen fibres. In the hypertrophic scar tissue of some patients, the dermis contained adipose tissue displaced upwards from the hypodermis. The connective tissue contained densely packed collagen fibres and fibroblasts; this region was devoid of hair follicles, sweat glands and blood vessels, although they were observed in the region of loosely packed connective tissue. The normal skin contained all the neuropeptides studied, except somatostatin-, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerves, which were seen as single fibres or in nerve bundles, and were associated with blood vessels in the dermis. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerves were found in the arrector pili muscle, and neuropeptide Y-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, [Met]enkephalin- and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-containing nerves were found within sweat glands. In patients with flat, non-hypertrophic scar tissue, neuropeptides and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-containing nerves were absent. In patients with hypertrophic scars, the density of neuropeptide Y-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, substance P-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerves was greater in the dermis when compared with controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Localisation of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the ciliary ganglia of monkey (Macaca fascicularis) and cat: a light- and electron-microscopic study.	The present study describes substance P-like immunoreactivity in the ciliary ganglia of monkey (Macaca fascicularis) and cat. About 60% of neurons in the monkey ciliary ganglion and 40% in the cat ciliary ganglion were substance P-like immunoreactive, ranging from faint to moderate staining. Substance P-like immunoreactivity was located in cell bodies, dendritic profiles and axons. In the monkey, substance P-like immunoreactive pericellular arborisations were associated with about 0.5%-3% of the ganglion cells, which were either negatively, faintly or moderately stained. An electron-microscopic study demonstrated the presence of either substance P-like immunoreactive positive or negative axon terminals synapsing or closely associated with positive dendritic profiles in both the monkey and cat ciliary ganglia. The results suggest that substance P plays an important role in the ciliary ganglion, perhaps as a modulator or transmitter.
Coexistence of substance P, neuropeptide Y, VIP, and CGRP in the nerve fibers of the carotid labyrinth of the bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana: a double-labelling immunofluorescence study in combination with alternate consecutive sections.	Double immunohistochemical staining with rhodamine- and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated antisera revealed the coexistence of substance P (SP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), and SP and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in most nerve fibers in the intervascular stroma of the carotid labyrinth of the bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana, although there were a few fibers which showed only SP- or NPY-immunoreactivity. Approximately one third of SP-immunoreactive fibers also showed coexistence with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunoreactivity, and a few fibers contained VIP without SP. The combination of the double immunofluorescence technique and alternate consecutive sections further demonstrated the possible coexistence of SP, VIP, NPY, and CGRP. This coexistence of four different peptides in the same nerve fibers was proved by the following two evident facts: 1) some SP fibers which demonstrated coexistence with NPY-immunoreactivity were assumed to be continuous with those showing VIP-immunoreactivity, and 2) almost all of the SP fibers showed coexistence with CGRP-immunoreactivity. By this reasoning, nearly one third of SP fibers may demonstrate coexistence with NPY-, VIP-, and CGRP-immunoreactivities. These multiple peptides might be involved in vascular regulatory function, which is a possible function of the amphibian carotid labyrinth.
Lack of neurotrophin-3 leads to deficiencies in the peripheral nervous system and loss of limb proprioceptive afferents.	Neurotrophin-3-deficient (NT-3-deficient) mice were generated by gene targeting. Mutant mice displayed severe movement defects of the limbs, and most died shortly after birth. Substantial portions of peripheral sensory and sympathetic neurons were lost while motor neurons were not affected. Significantly, spinal proprioceptive afferents and their peripheral sense organs (muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs) were completely absent in homozygous mutant mice. This correlated with a loss of parvalbumin and carbonic anhydrase-positive neurons in the dorsal root ganglion. No gross abnormalities were seen in Pacinian corpuscles, cutaneous afferents containing substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, and deep nerve fibers in the joint capsule and tendon. Importantly, the number of muscle spindles in heterozygous mutant mice was half of that in control mice, indicating that NT-3 is present at limiting concentrations in the embryo.
An immunocytochemical study of neuropeptide-like in a ciliated protozoan, Stylonychia mytilus]	An immunocytochemical investigation with both B-SA and ABC methods, under LM and EM, was carried out on Stylonychia mytilus by using 7 antisera to vertebrate neuropeptides, hormones and TH. The immunotests showed the presence of substance p-, neuropeptide y-, cck-8-, somatostatin-, beta-endorphin, adrenocorticotropic hormone-, and TH-like immunoreactive molecules in Stylonychia mytilus. The distributions of these immunoreactive substances in Stylonychia mytilus were described.
Substance P: an immunohistochemical and biochemical study in human gingival tissues. A role for neurogenic inflammation?	Substance P has been studied in relation to its distribution within gingival tissues as well as its effect on cultured human gingival fibroblasts. The tissue distribution was varied depending on the degree of inflammation present. In healthy tissues substance P was found in the connective tissues interspersed between the collagenous elements and was particularly prominent in the areas immediately subjacent to the epithelial rete pegs. In inflamed tissues, substance P was markedly increased particularly around the blood vessels as well as in close association with much of the inflammatory cell infiltrate. The effect of substance P on human gingival fibroblast proliferation was monitored by [3H]-thymidine incorporation and indicated substance P to be mitogenic for these cells at low concentrations (1 x 10(-9) M) and tended towards an inhibitory effect at higher concentrations (1 x 10(-4) M). Substance P did not have any effect on the release of either total proteins or proteoglycans into the culture medium. However, exposure of the cells to substance P did cause a greater accumulation of both total protein and proteoglycan with the cell layer material. These findings suggest a potential role for substance P on gingival tissues and in particular their resident fibroblastic cells and can therefore be used as a basis for more detailed studies into the relationship between neuropeptide release associated with neurogenic inflammation and periodontal pathology.
An immunocytochemical study of the respiratory system of Podarcis hispanica (Reptilia).	The endocrine cells and nerves of the respiratory tract of the reptile Podarcis hispanica were investigated by immunocytochemistry under light microscopy. Immunoreactivities were more numerous in the lung than in the trachea. In the tracheal epithelium, endocrine cells immunoreactive to PHI, PYY, and Leu-enkephalin were detected, while immunoreactivity to serotonin, calcitonin, CGRP, PHI, and Leu-enkephalin was found in pulmonary endocrine cells. Numerous nerve fibers positive to NSE, PGP9.5, chromogranin, tyrosine hydroxylase, calcitonin, CGRP, bombesin, substance P, VIP, NPY, and PYY were found in the lungs. In addition, neurons positive to NSE and PGP9.5 were also found. Immunoreactivities to PHI and PYY in cells and to NSE, PGP9.5, chromogranin, tyrosine hydroxylase, calcitonin, CGRP, and PYY in nerves, were reported first in the respiratory system of reptiles.
Perivascular neuropeptides (NPY, VIP, CGRP and SP) in human brain vessels after subarachnoid haemorrhage.	INTRODUCTION--Cerebral blood vessels are innervated by sympathetic nerve fibres storing neuropeptide Y (NPY), parasympathetic nerves storing acetylcholine, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and sensory afferent fibres containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP) and neurokinin A. In experimental studies on subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) there are indications that perivascular peptides are involved. In the present study we have in man measured the levels of NPY, VIP, SP and CGRP in brain vessels of patients that have suffered a fatal SAH and compared this with the levels encountered in subjects that died of an extracerebral cause. MATERIAL AND METHODS--Vessels from patients who have died from SAH or nonSAH were obtained during autopsy performed within 24 hrs after death. The peptides were extracted and fractionated with reversed phase liquid chromatography (HPLC). The levels of NPY, VIP, SP, and CGRP were measured with radioimmunoassay. Vasomotor responses of human cerebral arteries were performed using a sensitive in vitro system. RESULTS--Human cerebral vessels contained NPY, VIP, CGRP and SP which eluted at the same positions as the authentic peptides. The level of CGRP was significantly lower (p < 0.01) in arteries removed from SAH patients as compared to control subjects. The level of SP was not changed, if anything it tended to be increased after SAH. The levels of NPY and VIP were not significantly altered after SAH. In isolated brain vessels alpha-CGRP was a potent vasodilator of arteries precontracted with whole blood, prostaglandin F2 alpha or endothelin. It had a poor effect on vessels precontracted with 60 mM potassium. CONCLUSION--The evidence suggest that the trigemino-cerebrovascular system, storing CGRP and SP, is to a differential degree involved in the pathophysiology of SAH in man and supports the hypothesis of an exhaustion of CGRP as one important factor in the development of late spasm occurring after SAH.
Distribution of SP- and CGRP-like immunoreactive nerve fibers in the lower respiratory tract of neonatal foals: evidence for loss during development.	The lungs of neonatal foals contain many nerves immunoreactive for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. These nerves are closely associated with the epithelium, bronchial and pulmonary vessels and the airway smooth muscle of all intrathoracic airways, including non-cartilaginous bronchioles. Activation of sensory nerves in the respiratory epithelium could thus potentially affect, via local axon reflexes, vascular and respiratory smooth muscle in neonatal equine airways. Nerves immunoreactive for these peptides are much more widely distributed within the lung than in adult horses; they may thus play a trophic role before birth, or contribute to the post-natal adaptation to breathing.
Changes in sensory neuropeptides in dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord of spontaneously diabetic BB rats. A quantitative immunohistochemical study.	This study examined the expression of the sensory neuropeptides, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP), in the lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord of spontaneously diabetic BB rats and non-diabetic controls using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis. In both animal groups immunoreactivities for CGRP and SP were widely distributed within the neurons of DRG and in nerve fibres of the dorsal spinal cord. Image analysis of each neuropeptide subpopulation in the DRG showed that in diabetic rats the cell diameter of immunostained CGRP neurons was significantly decreased compared with controls, while no difference could be found for SP-immunoreactive (IR) neurons. The decrease in the CGRP-IR cell diameter appeared to occur mainly in medium to large neurons (30-50 microns diameter; 2.2% controls, < 1% diabetes), this change being parallel to an increased frequency of small-size neurons (< 20 microns diameter) in diabetic rats (62% controls, 69% diabetes; P < 0.05). However, there was no statistical difference in the total number of cells immunostained for either CGRP or SP between control and diabetic rats. The ratio of CGRP or SP neurons compared to total cells in the ganglion was similar in control and diabetic groups. No difference could be observed for peptide immunoreactivity in the dorsal and ventral horns of either control or diabetic animals. The observed changes of perikaryal size in diabetic rats might relate to the reduced axonal calibre and conduction velocity observed in these animals, and indicate that subpopulations of sensory neurons are affected differently by diabetes.
The regional distribution of neuropeptides in human skin as assessed by radioimmunoassay and high-performance liquid chromatography.	In this study radioimmunoassay was used to determine neuropeptide levels in extracts from 17 differing anatomical regions of human skin. Marked regional variations of neuropeptide content for human skin were found and these variations are likely to reflect true physiological functions for the neuropeptides studied. In general the tachykinins, substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were found in highest concentrations in regions of skin with the greatest tactile sensation. By contrast, highest concentrations of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and peptide histidine methionine (PHM) were found in axillary skin, where they probably play a part in axillary eccrine sweat production. Neurotensin was not found in any of the skin areas sampled, suggesting that it is relatively unimportant in human physiological skin control. Reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (rpHPLC) was used to verify the results of radioimmunoassay. Both SP and NKA occurred in several regions in both their reduced and oxidized forms, as well as displaying molecular heterogeneity. CGRP occurred as one molecular species, this being alpha-CGRP, suggesting that this is the predominant molecular form in human skin. Likewise, both VIP and PHM displayed molecular homogeneity in the regions investigated by rpHPLC.
Invasion of the rat ventral root L5 by putative sympathetic C-fibers after neonatal sciatic nerve crush.	The present study examines the occurrence of C-fibers in lumbar ventral roots after sciatic nerve crush in neonatal and adult rats. Electron microscopic analysis showed that the number of C-fibers in the ventral root L5 increased significantly on the lesion side after neonatal but not adult sciatic nerve crush and that the number of C-fibers was higher in the ventral root L5 on the unoperated side compared to this root in normal control rats. In order to determine whether the new C-fibers in the L5 root on the lesion side are sensory or sympathetic we made immunohistochemical studies on roots from neonatally crushed rats. We found that there was no obvious lesion side/contralateral side or operated rat/control rat difference with respect to the occurrence and general configuration of axons with substance P-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity. However, the occurrence of axons with tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity appeared clearly higher in the ventral root L5 on the lesion side compared to the unoperated side in neonatally crushed rats. Moreover, these axons seemed to be more numerous also in the ventral root L5 on the unoperated side compared to normal control rats. No lesion side/contralateral side or operated rat/control rat differences were seen in the ventral root L4. We propose that the ventral root L5 is invaded by putative sympathetic C-fibers after sciatic nerve crush lesions in newborn rats.
Study of cytochemical properties in the nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis of rats]	The distribution of cell bodies containing serotonin (5-HT)-, substance-P (SP)-, L-enkephalin (L-ENK)- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like immunoreactivity (IR) in the nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis (PGCL) of the rat was studied immunocytochemically. Perikarya containing 5-HT-, SP- or L-ENK-IR were found throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the PGCL. Large, well-staining 5-HT cells densely clustered rather near the ventrolateral surface of the medulla. SP- and L-ENK-IR were distributed more extensively and located more lateraly. A few of perikary on containing NPY-IR were found primarily in the area from the medium to caudal region. The results provided morphological basis for further study of the neurochemical properties of PGCL neurons involved in the regulation of cardiovascular, respiratory and other functions in the rat.
Genesis and migration patterns of neurons forming the patch and matrix compartments of the rat striatum.	The mammalian striatum is divided into two compartments, the patch (or striosome) and the matrix, which differ on the basis of several cytochemical markers, connection patterns, and time of neurogenesis. In the rat, the patch compartment consists of clusters of neurons isolated by matrix neurons; included in the patch compartment is a rim of neurons subjacent to the corpus callosum and external capsule, called the subcallosal streak. To study the genesis and migration patterns of striatal neurons forming these compartments, we injected pregnant rats with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU, which is incorporated into DNA during S-phase mitosis) on embryonic (E) day 14, to label patch neurons, or on E19, to label matrix neurons. Embryos were sacrificed at intervals after injection, for detection of BrdU by immunocytochemistry. Cells labeled at E14 were distributed fairly uniformly in the differentiated portion of the caudate-putamen through E19. However, by the day of birth (P0), E14-labeled cells were clustered into patches and the subcallosal streak. Using double immunocytochemistry for BrdU and for the patch marker substance P, we demonstrated a caudal-rostral gradient in the birth dates of neurons in the patch compartment; E14-labeled cells occupied substance P-labeled patches at the level of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure, but patches further rostral were nearly devoid of E14-labeled cells. The distance between the lateral ventricle and the nearest E14-labeled cells was greater on E19 than on E16 or on P0, suggesting secondary movement of early-born neurons during the process of cluster formation. Neurons labeled at E19 formed the matrix surrounding clusters of unlabeled cells, except in the nucleus accumbens (ventral striatum), where E19-labeled cells formed clusters. The data suggest that the uniformly-distributed population of early-born neurons is disrupted by the invasion of later-born (matrix) neurons, forcing the early-born neurons into clusters which are displaced toward the ventricular surface to form the patch compartment. Early-born neurons adjacent to the external capsule are not displaced, forming the subcallosal streak.
The development of enkephalin and substance P neurons in the basal ganglia: insights into neostriatal compartments and the extended amygdala.	To study the comparative development of the two major neuropeptide genes of the striatum, we used immunocytochemistry to detect immunoreactivity (ir) for substance P and synenkephalin (the N terminus of proenkephalin), and in situ hybridization to detect proenkephalin mRNA. Earliest detection of substance P-ir was in the anlage of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST, at E15) and in the rostral-lateral caudate-putamen (CPu), at E16. Substance P in the BST was immediately subjacent to the medial ganglionic eminence, while immunoreactivity in the CPu was associated with the lateral ganglionic eminence. Earliest detection of synenkephalin-ir or proenkephalin mRNA was in the caudal-lateral CPu and the adjacent central nucleus of the amygdala (Ce), at E16. Over the next several days, expression of each neuropeptide spread toward the region of first expression of the other neuropeptide. The first overlap of expression of the two neuropeptides was at E18, at the level of the septum. Despite correspondence of substance P-ir and proenkephalin mRNA in patches at P0, very little co-expression of the two neuropeptides was evident in individual neurons. We propose a model in which the CPu develops primarily from the lateral ganglionic eminence, and the extended amygdala develops primarily from the medial ganglionic eminence. Within each structure, two poles of neuropeptide gene expression are established initially: substance P-ir in the rostral CPu and in the rostral-medial pole of the extended amygdala (represented by the BST), and synenkephalin/proenkephalin in the caudal CPu and in the caudal-lateral pole of the extended amygdala (represented by the Ce). A stream of substance P-ir cells connects the two poles of the extended amygdala, in the sublenticular substantia innominata.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the nipple of the rat mammary gland.	The distribution of nerve fibres immunoreactive to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was investigated by immunohistochemistry in nipples and mammary glands from lactating and non-lactating rats and compared to the immunoreactivity of other neuropeptides including substance P (SP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and somatostatin (SOM). The study revealed an extensive innervation of the mammary nipples, in which CGRP-immunoreactive (IR) nerve fibres were abundantly present in the epidermis, dermal connective tissue and intralobular connective tissue of the mammary gland parenchyma. Several of the dermal CGRP-IR fibres seemed to follow blood vessels, or formed "ringlet-like" structures. The latter were mostly observed in the dermal connective tissue of the nipple from the lactating rat and may have a mechanoreceptive function, e.g. for the suckling stimuli. The location of SP-IR appeared to be comparable to CGRP-IR, but in fewer fibres. Dense NPY-IR networks of nerve fibres were closely associated with the fascicles of smooth musculature in the core of the nipple base. In contrast, VIP-IR fibres were only sparsely present, and SOM-IR was not detected in the mammary nipples. The immunoreactive content of CGRP and SP was determined by radioimmunoassays. The total amount of immunoreactive CGRP was significantly higher in the nipples from the pregnant and the lactating rats when compared to SP. The maximum concentration of CGRP (65.9 +/- 4.0 pmol/g) measured in the nipples of the pregnant (day 10) rats exceeded almost ninefold the maximum concentration of SP (7.7 +/- 2.0 pmol/g).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Somatotropes and thyrotropes in the rat anterior pituitary gland cosecrete substance P: analysis by the sandwich cell immunoblot assay.	Substance P (SP) which is synthesized and secreted by anterior pituitary cells has been suggested to alter pituitary functions as a local modulator. We determined which cell type(s) of rat anterior pituitary gland secretes SP. A new technique, named the sandwich cell immunoblot assay (CIBA), was developed to identify two protein substances that are secreted simultaneously from the same cells. Monodispersed anterior pituitary cells were sandwiched with pairs of transfer membranes and incubated to absorb secretory substances on the membranes. Small reference points for identifying the location of cell blots were simultaneously put on the pairs of transfer membranes after the incubation. The validity of the sandwich CIBA was revealed by the following: (1) cell blots were detected at the same locations on the pairs of transfer membranes that were immunostained with the same antisera against the anterior pituitary hormones, and (2) the areas of these cell blots detected at the same locations on different membranes correlated well. When one of the pair of transfer membranes was immunostained for SP and the remaining immunostained for one of the anterior pituitary hormones, it was found that 78 and 27% of SP-immunoreactive cell blots showed also GH and TSH immunoreactivity, respectively. None of the SP-immunoreactive cell blots showed immunoreactivity for PRL, ACTH, LH or FSH. These results suggest that the sandwich CIBA is useful to identify two substances cosecreted from a cell and that a subpopulation of rat somatotropes or thyrotropes cosecretes SP.
Neuropeptides in the human penis: an immunohistochemical study.	In the present study, the distribution of neuropeptides in the human penis is demonstrated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). IHC screening detected a complex network of nerve fibers containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine-methionine (PHM), prepro-VIP (111-122), neuropeptide Y (NPY), C-flanking peptide of NPY (C-PON), calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, and galanin immunoreactivities. Special attention was also given to the recently isolated, VIP-related lizard peptide helospectin, which could also be detected in neuronal elements in the penis. Colocalization studies showed the coexistence of VIP, PHM, and partly helospectin, and of NPY with C-PON within nerve fibers in the cavernous and spongious body, the glans penis, and the urethra.
Immunohistochemical study of the distribution of endocrine cells in the gastrointestinal tract of the lesser mouse deer (Tragulus javanicus).	The occurrence and distribution of endocrine cells in the gastrointestinal tract of the lesser mouse deer, Tragulus javanicus, were studied immunohistochemically. Fourteen types of endocrine cells immunoreactive for serotonin, somatostatin, enteroglucagon, pancreatic glucagon, bovine pancreatic polypeptide (BPP), gastrin, substance P, motilin, gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), cholecystokinin (CCK), methionine-enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 (MENK-8), secretin, neurotensin, peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY) and chromogranin were revealed. Chromogranin-, serotonin-, somatostatin- and enteroglucagon-immunoreactive cells were detected in all regions examined, while pancreatic glucagon-immunoreactive cells, except in the proper gastric gland region, were not found in other regions of the gastrointestinal tract. Few BPP-immunoreactive cells in either the proper gastric gland or pyloric gland regions and abundant gastrin-immunoreactive cells in the pyloric gland region were observed. Restricted distributions of substance P-, GIP-, gastrin-, motilin-, CCK-, MENK-8-, secretin-, neurotensin- and BPP-immunoreactive cells in the small intestine, and BPP-, substance P-, PYY- and motilin-immunoreactive cells in the large intestine were noted. The important findings include the presence of BPP-immunoreactive cells in the abomasum, pancreatic glucagon-immunoreactive cells in the proper gastric gland region, and substance P- and motilin-immunoreactive cells in the large intestine. It is suggested that the distribution pattern of gut endocrine cells in the lesser mouse deer is more similar to that in the pig than in the domestic ruminants so far reported.
Peptide-containing nerve fibres in normal human parathyroid glands and in human parathyroid adenomas.	There are only a few studies on the innervation of the human parathyroid glands and the content of neurotransmitters. We therefore studied the occurrence and distribution of peptide-containing and adrenergic nerve fibres and the coexistence pattern of neuromessengers by immunocytochemistry in normal (unaffected) and adenomatous parathyroid glands from patients undergoing surgery for parathyroid adenoma. The unaffected parathyroid glands had a moderate-to-rich supply of nerve fibres and terminals containing two general neuronal markers, protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) and synaptophysin, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). They were seen close to blood vessels and, occasionally, among the endocrine cells. Only a few nerves contained calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), substance P (SP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP). The general density of innervation, using PGP 9.5 and synaptophysin as markers, varied greatly among the different adenomas examined. This applied also to the density of fibres and terminals containing specific types of messengers. Some of the tumours had a rich supply of TH- and NPY-containing nerve fibres, while others contained only few scattered fibres. The CGRP-containing fibres varied from moderate in number to no detectable fibres. The PACAP-, SP- and VIP-containing fibres were always very few or not detectable. It is not inconceivable that the wide variation in general density of the innervation and frequency of peptide-containing nerves among individual parathyroid adenomas is of significance for their hormone secretory behaviour.
Development of peptide-containing nerves in the human fetal prostate gland.	Immunohistochemical methods were used to study the developing peptidergic innervation of the human fetal prostate gland in a series of specimens ranging in gestational age from 13 to 30 wk. The overall innervation of each specimen was visualised using protein gene product 9.5 (PGP), a general nerve marker. The onset and development of specific neuropeptide-containing subpopulations were investigated using antisera to neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), bombesin (BOM), somatostatin (SOM), leu-enkephalin (l-ENK) and met-enkephalin (m-ENK). In addition the occurrence and distribution of presumptive noradrenergic nerves was studied using antisera to dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (D beta H) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). At 13 wk numerous branching PGP-immunoreactive (-IR) nerves were observed in the capsule of the developing prostate gland and surrounding the preprostatic urethra but the remainder of the gland was devoid of nerves. The majority of nerves in the capsule contained D beta H and TH and were presumed to be noradrenergic in type while other nerves (in decreasing numbers) contained NPY, l-ENK, SP and CGRP. Nerves associated with the preprostatic urethra did not contain any of the neuropeptides under investigation. At 17 wk the density of nerves in the capsule had increased and occasional m-ENK-, VIP- and BOM-IR nerve fibres were also observed. In addition PGP, D beta H-, TH-, NPY- and l-ENK-IR nerves occurred in association with smooth muscle bundles which at 17 wk were present in the outer part of the gland. Occasional PGP-IR nerves were also present at the base of the epithelium forming some of the prostatic glands. At 23 wk some of the subepithelial nerves showed immunoreactivity for NPY, VIP or l-ENK. At 26 wk smooth muscle bundles occurred throughout the gland and were richly innervated by PGP, D beta H and TH-IR nerves while a less dense plexus was formed by NPY- and l-ENK-IR nerves together with a few m-ENK-IR nerves. Occasional smooth muscle-associated varicose nerve fibres showed immunoreactivity for SP, CGRP, VIP or BOM although the majority of these types of nerve formed perivascular plexuses. Also at 26 wk numerous varicose nerve fibres were observed in association with the prostatic acini, the majority of such nerves containing NPY with a few showing immunoreactivity to VIP, l-ENK, SP or CGRP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cellular sites of expression of the neurokinin-1 receptor in the rat gastrointestinal tract.	In the digestive system, substance P is an excitatory transmitter to muscle, a putative excitatory neuro-neuronal transmitter, a vasodilator, and a mediator in inflammatory processes. Many of the biological effects of substance P are mediated by a high-affinity interaction with the tachykinin receptor neurokinin-1. The aim of the present study was to identify the sites of expression of this receptor in the rat stomach and intestine by immunohistochemistry with a polyclonal antiserum raised to the intracellular C-terminal portion of the rat neurokinin-1 receptor. Neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity is present in a large population of enteric neurons. The relative density of these neurons along the gut is colon > ileum >> stomach. In the intestine, stained neurons have a smooth cell body with processes that can be followed within and between plexuses, and make close approaches to other neuronal cells, but do not appear to project outside the plexuses, suggesting that they are interneurons. In the stomach, neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive neurons are infrequent and have a poorly defined and irregular shape. Neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity is also localized to numerous non-neuronal cells in the inner portion of the circular muscle layer of the small intestine, which have the appearance of small dark smooth muscle cells or interstitial cells of Cajal. These cells are postulated to form a "stretch-sensitive" system with the deep muscular plexus and thus constitute an important site of regulation of muscle activity. Double labeling immunofluorescence was used to simultaneously localize neurokinin-1 receptor and substance P/tachykinin immunoreactivities. These experiments demonstrate that in the enteric plexuses, substance P/tachykinin-immunoreactive varicose fibers encircle the cell bodies of most neurokinin-1 receptor-containing neurons, and in the inner portion of the circular muscle layer of the small intestine they lie close to neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive non-neuronal cells. In addition, some enteric neurons express both neurokinin-1 receptor and substance P/tachykinin immunoreactivities. The present study provides strong evidence that the neurokinin-1 receptor is the tachykinin receptor mediating the actions of substance P on enteric neurons and smooth muscle.
Sequencing peptides without scanning the reflectron: post-source decay with a curved-field reflectron time-of-flight mass spectrometer.	A time-of-flight mass spectrometer has been developed using a reflectron in which the voltages placed on the lens elements correspond to a function describing the arc of a circle. This curved-field reflectron enables acquisition of focused product-ion mass spectra at a single reflectron voltage. In this paper, we present results from this instrument for the amino acid sequencing of several peptides and describe the method of mass calibration.
Distribution of specific substance P binding sites in the heart and adjacent great vessels of the Wistar white rat.	Magnesium(Mg)-deficiency, whether dietary or an effect of a clinical condition such as diabetes, results in a variety of cardiovascular pathologies. Substance P (SP) has been implicated in the induction of cardiac focal inflammatory lesions that occur during Mg-deficiency. Blockade of SP receptors results in a significant reduction in the incidence of lesion formation. In an effort to identify potential endogenous cell populations of the heart, which may play a role in SP-dependent lesion formation, film- and light-microscopic autoradiography were used to map the distribution of specific SP binding sites in frozen sections of the normal rat heart and adjacent great vessels. Binding was assessed with 0.1 nM I-125 Bolton-Hunter labelled SP in the absence (total binding) or presence (non-specific binding) of excess unlabelled SP, prolactin, or L-703,606, a non-peptide antagonist of SP receptors. Film autoradiograms revealed prominent small foci of intense autoradiographic reactions dispersed intermittently around the periphery of the great vessels and coronary arteries, among the interstitial connective tissue of the heart, and along the cusps of the cardiac valves. Excess unlabelled SP caused a significant reduction (97.7% displacement; P < 0.001) in the focal autoradiographic reactions. L-703,606 caused a similar reduction in SP binding (97.3% displacement; P < 0.001), while prolactin had no statistically significant effect on the binding of radiolabelled SP. Light-microscopic autoradiograms revealed that the SP binding sites occurred within clusters of connective tissue cells or in rarely observed parasympathetic ganglia. No evidence was found to suggest the presence of SP receptors on endothelial cells, cardiac muscle fibers, or smooth muscle fibers. The connective tissue cells which bound SP within the heart will likely include types that are susceptible to SP activation and thus may play a role in initiation of the focal inflammation characteristic of Mg-deficiency.
Localisation of immunoreactive factor VIII, nitric oxide synthase, substance P, endothelin-1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine in human postmortem middle cerebral artery.	This pre-embedding electron-immunocytochemical study investigated the localisation of endothelial (type III) and neuronal (type I) isoforms of nitric oxide synthase, substance P, endothelin-1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine in the human middle cerebral artery taken up to 40 h postmortem. To ¿recover' from the anoxic period some of the vessels were incubated in oxygenated Krebs solution prior to the immunoprocedure. At this long postmortem time, immunoreactivity to type III and type I nitric oxide synthase, substance P, endothelin-1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine was found in a subpopulation of intact cells present in the vessel intima; immunoreactivity to type I nitric oxide synthase was also observed in a subpopulation of adventitial perivascular nerve fibres. Cultures of the cells from the intima of the postmortem vessels showed that the cells were proliferating and positive immunoreactivity to factor VII identified them as endothelial cells. The results therefore indicate that even after up to 40 h postmortem, endothelium of human middle cerebral artery is immunoreactive for a number of vasoactive agents and perivascular nerve fibres show nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity.
Optic nerve-dependent changes in adult frog tectal cell phenotypes.	Optic nerve activity helps determine the placement of retinal ganglion cell terminals in the optic tectum of the frog. We investigated whether the presence of this nerve might also influence a characteristic of its target structure, neurotransmitter biosynthesis. We performed unilateral optic nerve transections on adult animals and assayed the percent and intensity of substance P- and serotoninlike immunoreactive (SP-ir and 5-HT-ir, respectively) cells in the deafferented and afferented tectal lobes. Regeneration of the optic nerve was prevented. The percent of SP-ir cells in the afferented tectal lobes was significantly less than that in the deafferented ones either 6 weeks or 5 months following optic nerve lesion. Comparison to normal animals indicated that the change in SP-ir expression was due to a decrease in the percent of immunoreactive cells in the afferented tecta ipsilateral to the optic nerve lesion. The serotoninlike immunoreactivity of tectal cells was also significantly different in the two lobes following optic nerve lesions. This difference resulted from an increase in the percent of 5-HT-ir cells in the deafferented tectum. In addition, the intensity of 5-HT-ir cells in the deafferented lobe was significantly greater than in the afferented one. The staining intensity of SP-ir cells underwent only a transient, relative decrease in the deafferented tectum. We conclude that the optic nerve does regulate substance P and serotonin expression in the tectum, but that this regulation likely occurs through different pathways.
Distribution of neuropeptides in the inferior nasal turbinate mucosa of patients with allergic rhinitis]	An immunohistochemical study was made on the distribution of neuropeptides in 36 surgical specimens of the inferior nasal turbinate mucosa obtained from 32 patients with allergic rhinitis. Eleven patients (15 specimens) of the 32 underwent chemosurgery in which trichloracetic acid (TCA) was used before excision. In these patients a watery nasal discharge remained even after TCA application, although the nasal obstruction decreased. As a control, 6 specimens obtained from 6 patients with non-allergic rhinitis were also studied. In the present study, the distribution of Substance P (SP) was examined as an index of the parasympathetic nervous system. The distribution of nerve fibers showing a positive reaction specific to each of the two types of neuropeptides was examined in the frontal sections of the specimens at distances of 5 and 15 mm from the anterior tip of the inferior turbinate. In particular, the modes of the distribution in the superficial and deep layers of the mucosa were compared. It was found that, in the patients with allergic rhinitis who had not undergone TCA treatment, both SP-positive and VIP-positive fibers were abundant in the anterior portion of the turbinate immediately beneath the basement membrane. In those patients who underwent chemosurgery prior to excision, SP-positive fibers were very scarce in both superficial and deep layers, whereas VIP-positive fibers appeared to exist only in the deep layer around the remaining nasal glands. In the specimens obtained from patients with non-allergic rhinitis, there was no appreciable difference in the pattern of distribution of SP-and VIP-positive fibers among different sites of the specimens. The present study would indicate that chemosurgery using TCA inhibited the appearance of neuropeptides and resulted in improvement in clinical symptoms. However, in those patients having a continuous watery discharge even after TCA treatment, the function of the remaining nasal glands might be responsible for the symptom, although the contribution of VIP to the increase in vasopermeability should also be taken into consideration. Further studies are needed to determine the distribution of neuropeptides around the vessel walls.
The effect of intra-articular capsaicin on nerve fibres within the synovium of the rat knee joint.	The aim of this study was to establish the effects of intra-articular capsaicin (pelargonic acid vallinylamide) on synovial innervation of the rat knee. Rats were sacrificed 1, 2, 4 and 7 days after intra-articular injection of capsaicin and joint tissues stained with either conventional haematoxylin and eosin (H and E) or with specific antibodies to the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (both of which are markers for primary afferent fibres), the C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y (CPON) (localised in postganglionic sympathetic fibres), or protein gene product 9.5 (a pan-neuronal marker). At lower concentrations (0.1% and 0.25%), capsaicin produced no change in peptide staining pattern or histological appearance. At 0.5% capsaicin, there was complete loss of nerve fibres showing positive staining for CGRP and substance P at all time points. Staining for CPON and protein gene product 9.5 was still present, but decreased, 1 and 2 days after treatment and virtually absent at 4 and 7 days. These findings provide evidence for partially selective denervation induced by 0.5% capsaicin, in contrast to 1% capsaicin which abolished staining for all peptide markers, indicating a total ablation of nerve fibres. A consistent but unexpected finding was the presence of a severe inflammatory response in joints treated with 0.5% and 1% capsaicin. An influx of polymorphonuclear leucocytes was found to occur within 4 h of injection, with progressive appearance of mononuclear cells after this time. We conclude that it is difficult to specifically deplete sensory nerve fibres from the synovium by means of local capsaicin injection. Although selective loss of staining for sensory nerve fibres could be achieved by injection of 0.5% capsaicin, there was progressive non-specific loss of post-ganglionic autonomic fibres which may be related to the severe inflammatory response provoked by the higher doses of capsaicin.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced cough and substance P.	Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors cause coughing in 5-10% of patients, but the exact mechanisms of this effect are still unclear. In the airways ACE degrades substance P so the cough mechanism may be related to this peptide.
Intractable constipation with a decrease in substance P-immunoreactive fibres: is it a variant of intestinal neuronal dysplasia?	After Hirschsprung's disease was ruled out for 25 children who had severe chronic constipation, the authors studied the distribution of immunoreactivity for substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in the intestinal wall, using immunofluorescence. SP and VIP immunoreactivity identify excitatory and inhibitory nerve fibres, respectively. Full-thickness rectal biopsy specimens were unsatisfactory, so seromuscular biopsies of the caecum, transverse colon, and sigmoid colon were obtained (by laparoscopy and laparotomy; n = 10 patients). SP-immunoreactive fibres were markedly reduced in seven, with concomitant reduction of VIP-immunoreactive fibres in four. In two other patients, there was no obvious reduction in SP- or VIP-immunoreactive fibres. In a patient who subsequently was found to have multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b, the myenteric plexus was markedly hyperplastic, with an increase in nerve cells and nerve fibres. VIP-immunoreactive fibres were increased, but SP-immunoreactive fibres were markedly decreased. Surgical options included proximal stoma, Malone operation, and subtotal colectomy with preservation of the rectum. Three children with subtotal colectomy have had improvement over short-term follow-up. The combination of seromuscular laparoscopic biopsies and immunofluorescence demonstration of neuropeptides may identify new variants of intestinal neuronal dysplasia than can be treated successfully with surgery.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide innervation of the rat hepatobiliary system.	The digestive system is densely innervated by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive neurons. The present study investigated a) the distribution and origin of CGRP-immunoreactive fibers in the rat hepatobiliary tract, and b) their relation with substance P/tachykinin (SP/TK) immunoreactivity using immunohistochemical and radioimmunoassay techniques. CGRP-containing fibers form dense networks in the fibromuscular layer of the biliary tree and surrounding the portal vein. Thin, varicose fibers are present at the base of the mucosa of the ducts. In the liver, labeled fibers are restricted to the portal areas and the stromal compartment. Neonatal treatment with capsaicin, a neurotoxin for primary afferent neurons, or celiac/superior mesenteric ganglionectomy depletes CGRP-containing fibers in the biliary tract, and reduces those associated with the portal vein. In contrast, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy does not appreciably modify the density of these fibers. Radioimmunoassay studies show a reduction of CGRP-immunoreactive contents in the biliary tract and portal vein by 84% and 65%, respectively, following capsaicin treatment, and by 80% and 66%, respectively, following ganglionectomy. By contrast, CGRP concentrations in vagotomized animals are comparable to those of controls. Most CGRP-positive fibers appear to contain SP/TK immunoreactivity, as indicated by double-label studies. These results demonstrate that the rat hepatobiliary tract is prominently innervated by CGRP- and CGRP/SP/TK-immunoreactive fibers, which are likely to originate from spinal afferent neurons. The abundance of these fibers and their association with a variety of targets are in line with the involvement of these peptidergic visceral afferents in regulating hepatobiliary activities, including hemodynamic functions of the hepatic vasculature.
A comparison of methods using diaminobenzidine (DAB) to localize peroxidases in erythrocytes, neutrophils, and peroxidase-antiperoxidase complex.	Reactions using diaminobenzidine (DAB) to localize the enzyme peroxidase in neutrophils and peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) complex during immunological staining are usually performed in Tris-HCl or phosphate buffer at pH 7.2-7.6. However, DAB solutions at pH 7.2-7.6 often demonstrate erythrocyte pseudoperoxidase as well. By lowering the pH of the DAB solutions, it is possible to selectively suppress the reactivity of pseudoperoxidase while maintaining optimal reactions in neutrophils and PAP complex. For this purpose we recommend ammonium acetate-citric acid buffer at pH 5.5 (pH 5.0-6.0) containing 44 mg DAB per 100 ml buffer and 0.003%-0.03% with respect to H2O2.
Activation of neurokinin 1 receptors on interstitial cells of Cajal of the guinea-pig small intestine by substance P.	The aims of this work were to determine whether cells that are similar to the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) and have immunoreactivity for the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor are indeed ICC; to determine whether the agonist, substance P, binds to and activates the receptor on presumptive ICC; and to investigate the relationship between substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres and ICC. ICC at the level of the myenteric plexus and in the deep muscular plexus in the duodenum and ileum of the guinea-pig were investigated. Immunoreactivities for the ICC marker, Kit, and the NK1 receptor were colocalised in ICC of the myenteric and deep muscular plexuses. In tissue fixed immediately after its removal from the animal, NK1 receptor-immunoreactive ICC were found at the level of the myenteric plexus in the duodenum, but not in the ileum, and in the deep muscular plexus in the duodenum and ileum. The majority of receptor immunoreactivity was on the cell surface. ICC were exposed to substance P (10(-7) M), initially at 4 degrees C for 1 h to allow the agonist to bind, followed by incubation at 37 degrees C to allow receptor internalisation to proceed. Exposure to substance P caused the NK1 receptor immunoreactivity to aggregate in clumps in the cytoplasm of ICC of the myenteric and deep muscular plexuses, including the ICC of the myenteric plexus of the ileum, where NK1 receptor immunoreactivity was not seen if tissue was not exposed to substance P. Substance P, to which the fluorescent label, cyanine 3.18 (Cy-3), was coupled, bound to the ICC. The Cy-3-substance P was internalised with the receptor following warming to 37 degrees C. Many, but not all, ICC were closely apposed by nerve fibres with immunoreactivity for substance P. It is concluded that the NK1 receptor immunoreactivity on ICC represents receptor that is functional in the sense that it binds the natural agonist substance P and undergoes agonist-induced internalisation. ICC are likely to receive excitatory innervation from the close approaches of tachykinin-containing nerve fibres.
Cholinergic lesions of the rat brain by ibotenic acid and 192 IgG-saporin: effects on somatostatin, substance P and neuropeptide Y levels in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus.	Impairment of the basal forebrain cholinergic system is an important change in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. Various neurotoxins have been used to achieve this in animal models. In this study the effects of chemical lesions by ibotenic acid (IBO), a glutamate analogue and by 192 IgG-saporin, a highly specific immunotoxin against cholinergic neurons, were investigated. The toxins were delivered stereotaxically into the brains of young Sprague-Dawley rats which were later sacrificed by decapitation. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was measured by radioenzymatic assay and substance P (SP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SOM) levels by radioimmunoassay. Decreased ChAT and SOM levels were observed in the cortex and the hippocampus in both experiments. Cortical SP levels were increased after IBO lesions but were unaffected after 192 IgG-saporin lesions. NPY levels remained unchanged in both experiments. The results indicate that there were specific changes in neuropeptide contents in the cortex and hippocampus in response to cholinergic damage in the rat brain.
Substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive fibers in the chicken carotid bodies after nodose ganglionectomy and midcervical vagotomy.	The chicken carotid body is richly innervated by branches from the vagus nerve immunostained with the monoclonal antibody TuJ1 to neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin. Furthermore, peptidergic nerve fibers are densely distributed in and around the carotid body. After transection of the vagus nerve proximal to the nodose ganglion, TuJ1-immunoreactive fibers did not change in density but substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive fibers were conspicuously decreased in and around the carotid body. After removal of the nodose ganglion, TuJ1-immunoreactive fibers markedly diminished and substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive fibers almost disappeared. These results indicate that the vast majority of substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive fibers in the chicken carotid body originate from the vagal ganglia.
Neurochemical markers in the nervous plexus of the canine glottis.	The structure of the nervous network and the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and various neuropeptide-containing nerves were immunohistochemically studied in the glottis of the dog. The nervous network in the glottis revealed apparent regional differences in morphology. The nervous network in the cartilaginous vocal fold of the posterior glottis consisted of nerve bundles running parallel to the edge of the vocal fold. Only a small number of nerve bundles were observed in the anterior glottis, specifically in membranous vocal fold. In the subepithelial layer of the posterior glottis, a moderate number of galanin (GAL)-immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed, while only a few fibers were present in the anterior glottis. Numerous vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-, GAL-, methionine-enkephalin (ENK)- and TH-immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed within and around the laryngeal submucosal seromucous gland. Many TH- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive fibers were arranged around the blood vessels. In the epithelia, free nerve endings with immunoreactivity for substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was observed. Furthermore, nerve cell bodies with SP-, VIP-, GAL-, ENK-, and NPY-immunoreactivity were observed in the deep region of the submucosal layer. The results from the present study suggest that there is autonomic regulation of the glottis. Regional structural differences in the nervous network of the glottis may reflect functional differences.
Extrinsic denervation increases myenteric nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons and inhibitory neuromuscular transmission in guinea pig.	Enteric nerves can function normally without connections with the central nervous system. A contributing component of the functional autonomy exhibited by enteric nerves is their plasticity. In the present study, the number of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive (NOS-ir) myenteric neurons and inhibitory neuromuscular transmission were studied in extrinsically denervated ileal segments. Segments of ileum were extrinsically denervated by crushing the mesenteric blood vessels supplying a loop of ileum in anesthetized guinea pigs. Some unoperated animals were treated with capsaicin or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to disrupt primary afferent and sympathetic nerves, respectively. NOS-ir was localized using indirect immunofluorescence. Nerve-mediated relaxations of longitudinal muscle were studied in vitro using standard methods. At 7 weeks after extrinsic denervation there was a 93% increase in the number of NOS-ir myenteric neurons. The number of neurons containing detectable vasoactive intestinal peptide-ir neurons was not changed after extrinsic denervation. Neurogenic relaxations caused by 10, 20 and 50 Hz transmural stimulation were larger in extrinsically-denervated tissues compared to control tissues. The NOS antagonist, nitro-L-arginine (300 microM) inhibited neurogenic relaxations in control and extrinsically-denervated tissues. Capsaicin- but not 6-OHDA-treatment mimicked the effects of extrinsic denervation on NOS-ir and neurogenic relaxations of the longitudinal muscle. Active or passive properties of the longitudinal muscle were unaffected by extrinsic denervation. These data indicate that extrinsic denervation is associated with an increase in the number of myenteric neurons expressing detectable NOS-ir and potentiation of inhibitory transmission to longitudinal muscle. This effect is due to loss of extrinsic sensory nerves.
Nerve fibers immunoreactive to calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, neuropeptide Y, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase in innervated and denervated oral tissues in ferrets.	The effect of sensory and sympathetic denervation on the localization and distribution of nerve fibers immunoreactive (IR) to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) was studied in the dental pulp, periodontal ligament (PDL), and gingiva in ferrets. Unilateral axotomy was performed by resection of the inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) 10 days before the experiment (Group 1); sympathectomy, by unilateral removal of the cervical ganglion 5 days before the experiments (Group 2). Immunohistochemistry was performed on free-floating sections by the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. A considerably higher density of sensory fibers IR to CGRP and SP was found in the dental pulp than in PDL and gingiva. The majority of pulpal fibers were located in the walls of blood vessels. A subodontoblastic network of fibers IR to CGRP and SP was lacking in incisors and canines and was found only in the coronal pulp in premolars and molars. Sympathetic fibers were sparsely distributed in the pulp, and they were mainly confined to large vessels running centrally in the root pulp as well as the larger vessels in apical PDL and alveolar bone. Gingiva was well supplied with CGRP- and SP-IR nerves, and some NPY and DBH fibers were located in association with larger vessels. Round cell-like structures within the basal part of the epithelium were CGRP-IR. Axotomy induced a complete loss of CGRP- and SP-IR fibers in the anterior part of the jaws, whereas sympathectomy caused a reduction, but not a total loss, of NPY- and DBH-IR nerves. It is concluded that, except for some distributional differences, the oral tissues in the ferret have an abundant sensory innervation similar to that found in other species.
Substance P in the primary sensory neurons innervating the dental pulp in the guinea pig]	Primary sensory trigeminal neurons supplying the dental pulp of incisors in guinea pigs were labelled by retrograde axonal transport. Using an autometallographic intensification procedure, 48 h after injection of wheat germ agglutinin/colloidal gold in the pulp, gold particles were detected in the cytoplasm of the neurons as black granulations. A morphometric study showed a bimodal repartition of the labelled neurons of the ganglion. By submitting ganglion slices to an anti-substance P immunserum revealed by immunocytochemistry, it could be observed that, among the neurons supplying the dental pulp of incisors, the majority of the largest were substance P immunopositive while the smallest were substance P immunonegative. These observations suggest that there could be at least two different populations of nerve fibres supplying the guinea pig incisor dental pulp. Substance P negative neurons could express different neurotransmitters.
Reduced nociceptive behavior in islet amyloid polypeptide (amylin) knockout mice.	Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP or amylin) is predominantly expressed by insulin cells, but occurs also in primary sensory neurons in the rat. Here, using mice targeted for a null mutation in the IAPP gene, we establish murine expression of IAPP in sensory neurons; its distribution in a population of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing neurons in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion is similar to that previously described in the rat. We also report the IAPP mutant mice display a reduced pain response in the paw formalin test. Adjuvant-induced joint inflammation was not altered in IAPP mutants, arguing against a peripheral inflammatory abnormality. These findings lead us to suggest that IAPP has a pro-nociceptive function in primary sensory neurons.
Distributional pattern and targets of GABA-containing neurons in the porcine small and large intestine.	In the rat and guinea-pig enteric nervous system, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been shown to act as a neurotransmitter in interneurons innervating both excitatory and inhibitory motor neurons, thus modulating peristalsis and acid secretion. The present study reports on the distribution of GABA-containing neurons in the porcine intestine by the use of immunocytochemistry. Duodenal, jejunal, ileal and distal colonic segments were exposed in vitro to exogenous GABA (10(-8) M) prior to fixation and immunocytochemical staining to supplement endogenous stores of GABA. In contrast to the guinea-pig intestine, where GABA-immunoreactive (IR) nerve cell bodies were common in myenteric ganglia but very rare in the submucosa, in the pig intestine the nerve cell bodies expressing GABA-immunoreactivity were found predominantly in the ganglia and nerve strands of the inner submucous plexus, while a small number were also found in the myenteric plexus. Most of the neurons were small-sized and had a multidendritic uniaxonal appearance. Their varicose axonal processes protruded within the same ganglion to other nerve cells, including GABA-IR ones, or ran into connecting nerve strands towards neighbouring ganglia. Some of the bigger GABA-IR neurons in the myenteric plexus, however, displayed either a lamellar multidendritic uniaxonal or a bipolar appearance. The density of GABA-IR neurons in the inner submucous plexus varied from duodenum to colon, being highest in ileum and lowest in duodenum. Double-immunolabelling of GABA with substance P revealed that approximately 40% of the GABA-IR neurons in the inner submucous plexus of the ileum also stained for substance P. Our results suggest that in the porcine enteric nervous system, GABA-containing neurons are primarily involved in the modulation of secretory processes rather than in the modulation of peristalsis.
A high resolving power ion selector for post-source decay measurements in a reflecting time-of-flight mass spectrometer.	An electrostatic deflector has been designed and constructed that can be used in a reflecting time-of-flight mass spectrometer for either single-deflector or dual-deflector velocity selection in post-source decay measurements. The deflector consists of an interleaved set of parallel deflection electrodes as in a Loeb/Cravath/Bradbury device, but thin metal ribbon instead of wire is used for the deflection electrodes. The time for reversing the electric field, which depends on various factors such as the electronics for pulsing the voltage and the time constant of a particular electrode geometry, is about 19 ns for the deflectors used in this study. By properly timing the reversal of the electric field, the time-window for ion transmission can be made substantially less than the switching time of each individual deflector. In conjunction with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, the single-deflector's resolving power and transmission are robust with respect to laser fluence, i.e. they remain high even when the fluence is raised well above threshold. By contrast the operational features of the dual-deflector gate offer more versatility in locating and sizing the selection window. Operating the ion selector in a single-deflector mode, we have achieved a resolving power of approximately 710 full width at half maximum (FWHM) for different isotopes of protonated, sodiated, and potassiated substance-P (m/z 1348.6, 1370.6 and 1386.6 respectively; 10.073 keV). Operating it in the dual-deflector mode under two different sets of conditions, we have succeeded in obtaining resolving powers of approximately 1100 (FWHM) for protonated substance-P (m/z 1348.6; 10.8 keV) and approximately 5200 (FWHM) for an isotopomer of PEG 6000 (approximately m/z 6000; 10.04 keV). This accomplishment implies that high-resolution ion selection can be coupled to post-source decay analyses.
Ultrastructure of enkephalin- and substance P-immunoreactive axon terminals in the hypoglossal nucleus of the chicken.	The morphology and distribution of leucine-enkephalin (LENK)- and substance P (SP)-containing axon terminals in the hypoglossal nucleus of the chicken was investigated immunocytochemically at the electron microscopic level. The major findings of the present study were as follows: 1) Both LENK- and SP-immunoreactive (IR) profiles including unmyelinated axons, varicosities and axon terminals were found throughout the hypoglossal nucleus. 2) LENK-IR profiles without synapses (preterminal axons and varicosities) were observed more frequently (66%) than LENK-IR synaptic profiles (34%). In contrast, SP-IR synaptic terminals were seen more often (68%) than SP-IR terminals without synapses (32%). 3) Both LENK- and SP-IR synaptic terminals ending on dendrites were more numerous (83% and 94%, respectively) than those making synapses on somata (17% and 6%, respectively). 4) The average diameter of SP-IR synaptic terminals were significantly larger than that of LENK-IR ones. 5) Both LENK- and SP-IR synaptic terminals contained numerous small clear vesicles and several large dense-cored vesicles (LDV). Although both LENK- and SP-IR synaptic terminals contained LDV consistently, SP-IR synaptic terminals contained significantly more LDV than LENK-IR types. 6) Postsynaptic dense bodies (Taxi bodies) were seen more frequently in SP-IR synaptic terminals than in LENK-IR ones. These findings confirm both LENK and SP innervation in the hypoglossal nucleus and suggest a functional role as neuromodulator for the two neuropeptides in tongue control.
Preferential synaptic relationships between substance P-immunoreactive boutons and neurokinin 1 receptor sites in the rat spinal cord.	Substance P plays an important role in the transmission of pain-related information in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Recent immunocytochemical studies have shown a mismatch between the distribution of substance P and its receptor in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Because such a mismatch was not observed by using classical radioligand binding studies, we decided to investigate further the issue of the relationship between substance P and its receptor by using an antibody raised against a portion of the carboxyl terminal of the neurokinin 1 receptor and a bispecific monoclonal antibodies against substance P and horseradish peroxidase. Light microscopy revealed a good correlation between the distributions of substance P and the neurokinin 1 receptor, both being localized with highest densities in lamina I and outer lamina II of the spinal dorsal horn. An ultrastructural double-labeling study, combining preembedding immunogold with enzyme-based immunocytochemistry, showed that most neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactive dendrites were apposed by substance P containing boutons. A detailed quantitative analysis revealed that neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactive dendrites received more appositions and synapses from substance P immunoreactive terminals than those not expressing the neurokinin 1 receptor. Such preferential innervation by substance P occurred in all superficial dorsal horn laminae even though neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactive dendrites were a minority of the total number of dendritic profiles in the above laminae. These results suggest that, contrary to the belief that neuropeptides act in a diffuse manner at a considerable distance from their sites of release, substance P should act on profiles expressing the neurokinin 1 receptor at a short distance from its site of release.
