Booking clients for addiction treatment: what works best?	Considerable effort has been devoted to trying to improve the nature and quality of drug abuse treatment over the past 30 years. While there is evidence that certain treatment modalities are more effective than others, there is little evidence that inpatient treatment is more effective than outpatient, that treatment of a long duration is more effective than that of a short duration or that intense treatment is more effective than less intense treatment. Attempts to match drug abusers to an optimal treatment type have largely been unsuccessful.
Nurses' training on dealing with alcohol and drug abuse: a question of necessity.	The purpose of this article is to present a brief review on the need for changes in nurses' undergraduate education concerning alcohol and drugs. Specialized literature makes it clear that nurses have difficulties giving care to psychoactive substance users as part of their functions in the various health care sites. This may be associated with a deficiency in formal education. In the face of the social importance concerning these related questions in the scope of research, care, and education, we made an attempt at deepening the study on this theme, which could contribute to changes in practice, care, and undergraduate nursing education.
Using scrapbooks & portfolios in group work with women who are chemically dependent.	This article provides a rationale and strategies for using scrapbooks and portfolios within the context of group work with minority women recovering from chemical dependence. An expanded model of recovery-based group work places the use of scrapbooks and portfolios within the context of a practice model that seeks to increase general and social self-efficacy in these women. Memory scrapbooks, lifecourse scrapbooks, and recovery portfolios are defined; their differential use in group work is described; and ways group members can use the tools to strengthen their sources of self-efficacy are explored.
Chemical abuse. An intervention program for the elderly.	Although chemical dependency has been identified as a problem in the geriatric population, the literature continues to focus on issues of problem identification; few authors address the issue of providing appropriate services for the chemically dependent elderly. A goal of the Elders Health Program was to design a process of intervention using strategies employed by current chemical dependency treatment facilities, and to interface this process with knowledge and respect for normal aging changes. The intervention involved creating a unified and informed intervention team. The Elders Health Program illustrates that all elders have a network that can be employed or created in an effort to move the client into accepting the need to change. The ultimate goal is to improve the well-being of the client.
The role of the nurse in services for drug dependents]	Aim of the work is to take into account the role of nursing in Drug Dependence Units, on the bases of the experience acquired by the Authors at the Servizio di Neuropsicotossicologia in Dolo (Venice). Two working patterns are distinguished, which have to be integrated in daily practice: 1) the fulfillment of "technical" tasks, giving particular importance to drug administration and laboratory data control (for chemical and toxicological testing); 2) the relationship with patients, with reference to the distinction between diagnostic function. It is particularly stressed that the nurse is the first staff operator to be brought in contact with patients and to follow them during the therapeutic program. The relationship with psychologically disturbed patients can be very hard and often too much involving. It is therefore important for nurses working in this field to have a specific training.
Postanesthesia care of the cocaine abuser.	The use of cocaine is increasing in the United States. An increasing number of cocaine users will be admitted to the PACU, requiring nurses to be knowledgeable about this hazardous drug. Cocaine produces harmful effects on the central nervous, respiratory, and cardiovascular systems. Nursing process can be used to guide the patient's care. Changes in physical, mental, and emotional status must be assessed often. Multiple nursing diagnoses are appropriate for this patient in the PACU. Maintaining airway and alleviating pain are nursing interventions that challenge the PACU nurse. The goal of nursing care is to provide a safe, quiet, and comfortable recovery from anesthesia. Rehabilitation is the long-range goal for the patient who needs expert nursing care, a therapeutic environment, and understanding.
Community mental health services for the underserved: a culturally specific model.	Underutilization of community mental health services by minorities has been an ongoing concern in the field of mental health. Many agencies are mainstream and ethnocentric in their services to culturally diverse clients, resulting in color-blind treatment approaches. During the era of civil rights, the concept of difference was used to exclude groups of individuals, families, and communities from access to resources. However, ethnicity does matter and make a difference. This article will address the need for culturally relevant services for African-American clients with the dual diagnosis of substance abuse and mental illness. The intent is to provide mental health care providers with a culturally specific model that will render culturally relevant and culturally competent services to individuals from diverse cultural backgrounds.
Pathophysiology of prenatal drug-exposure: in utero, in the newborn, in childhood, and in agencies.	Medical communities are documenting an increase in the numbers of infants being born with prenatal drug exposure. Medical, educational, and social agencies are serving large numbers of these infants, toddlers, and their families. These infants and toddlers constitute a population whose short-term and long-term needs have not been adequately identified or addressed in the health, social, emotional, or developmental domains. This article discusses the pathophysiology in prenatal drug exposure and the role of the nurse when providing services to these infants, toddlers, and their families.
New inter-activity cooperation providing an improved healthcare offer]	The Authorities aim to establish new cooperation between the various healthcare activities. This recommendation can be practically applied in the field of primary care within the psychiatric and addiction treatment sectors. This development involves implementing advanced nursing practices.
The association between the patient-nurse relationship and patient perception of substance use control in an addiction therapy setting: a descriptive correlation study]	The aim of this study is to explore the association between the patient-nurse working alliance and the degree of how much substance use control is perceived as burdensome in an addiction therapy setting. Imogene King's theory and the working alliance concept were used as the theoretical framework. The investigation was undertaken using a self-administered questionnaire with the short-form of the working alliance inventory (WAI) translated and validated in French and targeting a convenience sample (n=28). In this sample the working alliance was evaluated by 12 questions on a Likert-Scale and perceived as generally good (x = 61.68, max = 84). A significant negative linear relation was found between the perception of the drug-controls as burdensome, evaluated by an additional question on a visual analogue scale (VAS), and the establishment of a working alliance (r = -0.67, p-value > 0.001). Furthermore, the form of admission is important as involuntarily hospitalized patients (n = 7) (t, p-value = 0.018) form poorer working alliances, and perceive the controls as more burdensome (Z, p-value = 0.004) as opposed to voluntarily hospitalized patients (n = 21). Even though these results cannot be generalized because of the small sample (n = 28), they raise important questions for nursing practice, especially for involuntarily hospitalized patients. These patients seem to be more susceptible to any disturbance of the relationship and possible consequences need to be taken into account. In addition, drug-control might have to be reassessed. The findings also raise questions about the use of camera supervision as an alternative to nursing supervision and about the need for the primary nurses to refrain from control interventions.
Reducing violence and aggression in the emergency department.	Emergency department (ED) staff, particularly nursing students and inexperienced nurses, are at risk of violence and aggression from patients. However, by reflecting on violent incidents, nurses can gain new knowledge, improve their practice and prepare themselves for similar incidents. This article refers to the Gibbs reflective cycle to analyse a violent incident involving a patient with mental health and alcohol-dependence problems that occurred in the author's ED. It also identifies strategies for nurses to pre-empt and defuse violent situations.
Perception of access to health care by homeless individuals seeking services at a day shelter.	Homeless individuals experience significant physical, mental health and substance abuse issues. This study describes the prevalence of health issues and perceptions of access to care among 300 homeless individuals who use a day shelter. Approximately 43% described a serious/chronic physical health problem, 53% a serious mental health problem, and 49% a substance use disorder. Those reporting a serious problem were more likely to have insurance and to report greater perceived access to care but perceived access to care was less than expected. Having insurance was also related to longer duration of homelessness. Targeting interventions to better match services to homeless individuals is the next challenge for advanced practice psychiatric and other nursing groups. Implications for doctoral level nurses in ways of evaluating models of care for this marginalized group are discussed. 
Identifying at risk individuals for drug and alcohol dependence: teaching the competency to students in classroom and clinical settings.	Alcohol use and other drug use affect patient healthcare outcomes. This article describes a classroom-to-clinical approach teaching nursing students to utilize motivational interviewing techniques to support patient behavior change. Through the lens of a universal prevention method, nursing students learned about reward circuit activation leading to risky substance use and the difference between addiction and at-risk use. Specific assessment tools and motivational interviewing techniques were presented in the classroom. Students then applied their knowledge in simulation laboratories and clinical rotations. 
Anticipatory guidance: alcohol, adolescents, and recognizing abuse and dependence.	Alcohol is the most used and abused addictive drug used by adolescents, making adolescent alcohol abuse a major social problem. Alcohol-related traffic fatalities continue to be the leading cause of death for 15-19-year-old youths. Factors that influence adolescents' decision to drink and drive include lack of reliable knowledge about alcohol and its effects, and lack of decision-making skills. Literature shows that promoting public awareness and education is a major method of prevention of alcohol abuse in its early stages. Nursing's goal is to help families to have a greater degree of intrafamily control and coping. Anticipatory guidance is an excellent method of empowering and educating families about alcohol facts, including risk factors, phases and consequences of usage, problem identification via information probes, and interventions that can be instituted early in a child's life to prevent adolescent alcohol-related problems.
A tool for empowerment: live for life school nurse fellowship.	This report describes a school nurse fellowship program, Live for Life School Nurse Fellowship, designed and supported by Johnson & Johnson and held in conjunction with the New Jersey Summer School of Alcohol and Drug Studies on the campus of Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. The program has been in effect for five years and has involved 135 school nurses and their administrators from 13 states. Results of an independent evaluation are included.
Patient violence toward a nurse: predictable and preventable?	1. It is estimated that half of all health care professionals will be assaulted at some point in their careers. 2. Prediction of violence depends not only on obvious factors, such as threats made by the patient, but also on more subtle violations of boundaries, such as patient contact with the clinician outside the clinical setting by telephone or in-person encounters in the clinician's home. A specific factor associated with danger seems to be the patient's perception of an unrealistic, "special" relationship with the person targeted. 3. Health care professionals should avoid creating a sense of guilt and shame in clinicians about such issues as countertransference. Staff members should be able to discuss issues without laying blame and possibly prevent dangerous situations.
Program for women and infants exposed to drugs: a legal alternative.	The Drug Identification, Screening, and Counseling Program is a system of care that uses the NP to implement a balanced perinatal program in both primary care and community based settings to meet the needs of mothers and babies exposed to drugs.
A chemical dependence clinical experience.	Chemical dependence treatment clinical experiences in undergraduate nursing programs can provide appropriate entry-level experiences for students in community settings when supervised adequately and arranged carefully. They increase students' awareness of the pervasiveness of alcohol and substance-related problems and its impact on individuals, families, and societies. With careful attention to entry barriers and orientation issues, faculty can develop clinical sites that provide a wealth of experience and opportunity for students to develop themselves both personally and professionally.
