Subject-collateral reports of drinking in inpatient alcoholics with comorbid cocaine dependence.	Greater substance abuse severity has been associated with less reliable self-reports of drinking in individuals with only an alcohol use disorder. In addition, individuals with multiple substance use disorders often report greater substance abuse severity. Therefore, it is important to be confident in the self-reports of substance use in individuals with multiple substance use disorders. Although there is considerable confidence in the use of collateral reports as a measure of drinking in individuals with only a diagnosis of alcohol abuse or dependence, information about subject-collateral agreement for individuals who meet the criteria for more than one substance use disorder is lacking. In this study, we examined subject-collateral reports of substance abuse in individuals presenting for alcohol treatment who met DSM-III-R criteria for alcohol and cocaine use disorder (n = 85). We then compared subject-collateral reports of those individuals to subject-collateral reports for individuals with only a diagnosis of alcohol abuse or dependence (n = 99). Overall, the results demonstrate that self-reports of individuals with alcohol and cocaine use disorders are generally valid. The results revealed no significant differences between groups on measures of subject-collateral consistency for several alcohol use variables. However, a significant difference was found for the number of days of drug use, with subject-collateral agreement being greater for individuals with an alcohol and cocaine use disorder. Additional analyses revealed that subject-collateral discrepancy scores were positively related to the participants' severity of alcohol and drug dependence. Recommendations for enhancing the accuracy of self-reports of drinking and drug use in alcoholics with comorbid cocaine use disorders are discussed.
Validation of the University of Manchester Drug Misuse Database.	The study was conducted to assess the validity and quality of data held by one of the UK regional drug misuse databases (DMD).
Frequency of injection of oral methadone solutions at treatment center for opiate dependence]	A sample of 134 patients (mean age 29.35 years, SD = 5.84, 72.4% of all patients in treatment at this point of time) were interviewed on the injection of peroral methadone. 43% of patients indicated having injected peroral methadone, 21% in the preceding month with a mean frequency of 10.3 injections. All of the patients concerned were in maintenance either with peroral or with injectable methadone. There were no significant differences between males and females and between the maintenance program with peroral and the one with injectable methadone regarding number of persons concerned and frequency of injection. 75% of patients were aware of associated health risks, their knowledge about these risks being modest. Asked about the reason for the injection patients most often mentioned a faster and more intense effect of the injected methadone as well as dependence on the injection per se or the syringe.
Does clinical case management improve outpatient addiction treatment.	This project evaluated whether clinical case managers (CCMs) could increase access and utilization of social services in the community; and thereby improve outcomes of addiction treatment. No case management (NoCM)--patients received standard, group-based, abstinence-oriented, outpatient drug abuse counseling, approximately twice weekly. Clinical case management (CCM)--patients were treated in the same programs but also were assigned a CCM who provided access to pre-contracted, support services such as drug free housing, medical care, legal referral, and parenting classes from community agencies. CCM patients received more alcohol, medical, employment, and legal services than NoCM patients during treatment. At 6 month follow-up CCM patients showed significantly more improvement in alcohol use, medical status, employment, family relations, and legal status than NoCM patients. We conclude that CCM was an effective method of improving outcomes for substance abuse patients in community treatment programs. Essential elements for successful implementation included extensive training to foster collaboration; and pre-contracting of services to assure availability.
Heroin use in adolescents and young adults admitted for drug detoxification.	To examine heroin use and associated morbidity in young adults undergoing drug detoxification.
The use of node-link mapping in the chemical dependency treatment of adolescents.	The current study examined treatment perceptions of youth adjudicated to an eight-month residential treatment facility. Participants were randomly assigned to standard or mapping-enhanced counseling. They completed established questionnaires assessing group sessions, program features, treatment motivation, and number of program infractions. Mapping residents rated group sessions as deeper over time. Mapped sessions appeared to also maintain residents' arousal over time. Mapping residents rated themselves as more motivated to get along with staff, and also tended to be more motivated to engage in the treatment process. In addition, mapping residents had fewer program infractions thirty days after the beginning of the experiment compared to standard residents. These findings extend previous research on node-link mapping in adult treatment settings.
Measuring readiness for change among crack cocaine users: a descriptive analysis.	This study examines the utility of the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment Scale (URICA) in assessing stages of change status with a group of 235 crack/cocaine users who had received treatment for their drug use. Cluster analyses were performed and three subgroups representing differing levels of readiness to change were identified. The three clusters demonstrated no significant differences on most demographic characteristics and other areas of functioning assessed by the Addiction Severity Index (ASI). The three clusters also showed similar improvements between the intake and six-month follow-up in these ASI life domains. The implications of these findings are discussed.
African-American injection drug users: tensions and barriers in HIV/AIDS prevention.	This exploratory study utilized a focus group methodology to explore tensions and barriers in HIV/AIDS prevention among African-American injection drug users. Participants discussed HIV infection risks, national/community HIV prevention effectiveness, prevention barriers, ideas on barrier removal, and the tensions which exist between users and the larger African-American community. Recognizing the inevitability of continued drug use for many injectors, participants requested basic harm-reduction supplies including condoms, needle exchange programs, additional drug user treatment services, and the use of culturally- and gender-matched peer-led prevention and treatment outreach. Preliminary recommendations are made for consideration in HIV/AIDS prevention among African-American IDUs.
Responding to victimized Alaska Native women in treatment for substance use.	High rates of physical and sexual abuse have been found among Alaska Native women entering a residential treatment program in Fairbanks, Alaska. Little information, however, has been available that describes the nature of such abuse and its relationship to treatment outcome. This article describes the extent of such abuse and reviews factors involved in its onset. The implications of the findings are discussed with an emphasis on how they can be applied to enhance treatment outcome.
Age differences in HIV risk behaviors and drug treatment utilization among drug users in Kentucky.	The purpose of this study was to (1) profile demographic and other characteristics of two age groups, younger aged 30 to 39 (N = 643), and older aged 40 to 49 (N = 395), (2) examine and identify differences in lifetime drug use patterns and age of drug use initiation, (3) examine HIV risk behaviors: drug use and sexual practices, (4) compare drug user treatment utilization between the two age groups, and (5) examine barriers to drug is treatment utilization by gender. The study sample (N = 1038) was drawn from individuals recruited into the NIDA Cooperative Agreement in Kentucky. The median age in the study sample was 38, the majority were male (72%), and African-American (81%). Results indicate that older subjects initiated drug use at a later age than younger subjects. Compared to the younger age group, significantly more subjects in the older group reported having ever used any of the 10 drugs examined. Injection drug use patterns and lifetime sex exchange practices were more prevalent in the older age group. Older subjects also were more likely to utilize drug user treatment, specifically methadone maintenance treatment. When barriers to drug user treatment were examined, significantly more women than men did not qualify for treatment, and they did not have enough money for treatment. Implications for interventions are discussed.
HIV prevalence and risks among injection and noninjection drug users in northern Thailand: need for comprehensive HIV prevention programs.	The authors sought to determine sociodemographic and sexual and drug use risk factors for HIV infection among drug users in northern Thailand adjacent to the Golden Triangle. The authors enrolled patients admitted for inpatient drug detoxification at one treatment center in northern Thailand and studied HIV risks and prevalence using an interviewer-administered questionnaire and serum collection with HIV pretest and posttest counseling. Between February 1, 1999 and January 31, 2000, 1865 patients admitted for opiate and methamphetamine dependence completed study procedures. Overall HIV prevalence was 10.3%: 30.0% among 513 injection drug users (IDUs) and 2.8% among non-IDUs (OR = 14.8, 95% CI: 10.2, 21.6). HIV seroprevalence was 2.4% among exclusive methamphetamine users (98% of whom are non-IDUs) and 3.4% among opium smokers. Injection drug use was the dominant risk factor in multivariate models. Although Thailand is widely recognized as having a successful national response to the heterosexual HIV epidemic, seroprevalence in IDUs remains high. Despite a sharp increase of non-IDUs admitted to the drug treatment center, HIV infection and risks remained high among IDUs in northern Thailand. HIV prevention campaigns need to focus on IDUs and to implement harm reduction strategies to reduce transmission to IDUs and further contain the HIV epidemic in Thailand.
Early implementation of Proposition 36: criminal justice and treatment system issues in eight counties.	This article examines key differences emerging in implementation of California's Proposition 36 voter initiative across eight diverse large, medium, and small counties. The data were collected in 2001 in a key informant survey of county policymakers. Unlike most major California criminal justice initiatives of recent years, Proposition 36 represents a potential lessening of adjudicatory and penal controls rather than an increase in their severity, in this case in response to charges of drug use, possession, or transportation. Furthermore, Proposition 36 was written broadly enough to allow considerable discretion in implementation across the counties, including the specification of funding to support mandated provisions of the Act and division of oversight responsibilities among criminal justice and treatment stakeholders. Hence actual content and scope of criminal justice system procedural changes, and impact of the proposition on criminal justice and treatment systems and on arrestees, are likely to vary by county. The article identifies key approaches and decisions made in the sampled counties that are predicted to affect the proposition's impact in the areas of treatment versus criminal justice resources, prosecutorial implementation, defendant and defense responses, assessing criminal histories and treatment needs, treatment versus criminal justice supervisory responsibility, and procedural variations and client behavior.
Psychiatric and substance dependence comorbidities, sexually transmitted diseases, and risk behaviors among methamphetamine-dependent gay and bisexual men seeking outpatient drug abuse treatment.	This article describes psychiatric and substance dependence comorbidities, lifetime rates of infectious disease, and reported high-risk sexual behaviors for methamphetamine-dependent, gay and bisexual men at entry to outpatient drug abuse treatment in Los Angeles. Participants' self-reports of high-risk sexual and drug use behaviors and of history of infectious disease status were correlated with diagnostic information from 155 Structured Clinical Interviews for the DSM-IV (SCID). A total of 82 participants met criteria for lifetime depressive disorders; 44 participants met criteria for lifetime anxiety disorders. Compared to those without psychiatric diagnoses, significant differences were observed in lifetime prevalence of sexually transmitted infections among those who have generalized anxiety disorder (higher rates of genital gonorrhea), specific phobia and major depressive disorder (higher rates of oral gonorrhea), social phobia (higher rates of syphilis) and bipolar disorder, type I (higher rates of HIV). Differences in infectious disease prevalence did not correspond to significantly different rates of high-risk sexual behaviors. Findings indicate that gay and bisexual men seeking outpatient treatment for methamphetamine dependence are likely to experience psychiatric comorbidity and to have high rates of infectious disease, including HIV, syphilis and gonorrhea.
A dual diagnosis demonstration project: treatment outcomes and cost analysis.	This article presents findings from an outpatient dual diagnosis demonstration project that investigated whether integrated treatment services for severely and persistently ill patients with co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders could result in improved outcomes and reduction of criminal justice and health care costs. Integrated treatment was defined as a simultaneous focus on both disorders through the provision of psychosocial rehabilitation, psychotherapeutic and psychopharmacologic treatment, and substance abuse recovery and relapse prevention by cross-trained staff. One hundred twenty six (126) patients with multiple DSM-IV Axis I and Axis II disorders were assessed on a variety of mental health, substance abuse, and quality of life measures at baseline and at six-month intervals up to three years post entry into treatment. Criminal justice and health care costs obtained from state and local databases were compared two years before and two years after initiation of treatment to determine cost differences. The study found statistically significant improvements in psychiatric symptoms, substance abuse, and quality of life outcomes. There were also decreases in criminal justice and acute and sub-acute mental health and alcohol and other drug (AOD) costs and increases in outpatient mental health and physical health care costs.
Therapy and supportive care of alcoholics: guidelines for practitioners.	Alcohol dependence is one of the most pervasive diseases of the Western world. However, less than 5% of all patients receive proper treatment. Each year, about 30% of all alcohol-dependent patients are admitted to general hospitals, usually to treat alcohol-related physical diseases. The alcohol dependence itself, however, is often not diagnosed or is ignored. This chapter describes current neurobiological findings, which help in the diagnosis and understanding of the development of alcohol tolerance, withdrawal and craving. It also discusses evidence-based treatment options that include brief interventions, outpatient programmes, self-help groups and medication to reduce the relapse risk. The state-of-the-art would be to develop a therapeutical network that offers a menu of treatment options for alcohol-dependent patients. If adequate treatment is available, relapse rates were as low as 50% in those follow-up studies that examined treatment periods of up to 2 years, so that there is no justification for therapeutic nihilism.
In-patient benzodiazepine withdrawal: comparison of fixed and symptom-triggered taper methods.	Fixed and symptom-triggered taper methods during in-patient benzodiazepine withdrawal treatment were compared using a randomized controlled design. Forty-four benzodiazepine users seeking in-patient withdrawal treatment at two substance use treatment clinics in Adelaide, Australia were recruited. Measurements included the Severity of Dependence Scale and the SF-36. A scale comprising six items from the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment Scale--Benzodiazepines (CIWA-B) was used to measure withdrawal symptoms. Participants were randomized to receive a fixed diazepam tapering regime or diazepam only in response to withdrawal symptoms (symptom-triggered group). Results showed that there were no significant differences between treatment groups in terms of withdrawal severity, duration of in-patient treatment, amount of diazepam administered, treatment attrition and benzodiazepine use at follow-up. Both groups showed a reduction in benzodiazepine dosage of 86% over the first 8 days which was maintained at 1 month post-discharge. Although there were improvements in some subscales of the SF-36 between baseline and follow-up, values were significantly below age-matched norms at both time-points. This study showed that benzodiazepine users entering treatment have relatively poor health and that symptom-triggered taper methods incorporating flexible dosing and flexible treatment duration are as effective as fixed dose taper methods for in-patient benzodiazepine withdrawal treatment.
The use of tranquillizers among women undergoing substance-abuse treatment.	Overuse of tranquillizers (e.g., Valium, Ativan, Xanax) is frequently overlooked in substance-abuse treatment. This paper presents findings on the prevalence and frequency of tranquillizer use and concurrent substance use in women undergoing substance-abuse treatment. Ninety-eight women in 9 short-term, residential, women-only treatment centres in the province of Ontario, Canada, completed questionnaires assessing their pre-treatment substance use. Forty-three percent reported that they used tranquillizers in the 6 months preceding their treatment, and 70% of these reported using tranquillizers at least 2 to 4 times per week. Duration of use ranged from 1 month to 20 years, with an average of 4 years. The majority of participants (86%) reported using at least 1 other substance in addition to tranquillizers. The findings suggest that a significant proportion of women in substance-abuse treatment may be dependent on tranquillizers in addition to other substances. Implications for the intervention of tranquillizer overuse in substance-abuse treatment settings are discussed.
The results of drug dependence treatment by therapeutic community in Thanyarak Institute on Drug Abuse.	A study of drug dependence treatment by therapeutic community (TC) in Thanyarak Institute on Drug Abuse from 1986 to 2000 was undertaken. 2,881 cases joined the TC program during this period (males 2,471 or 85.8%, females 410 or 14.2%). There were 278 cases who completed the TC program (males 261 or 93.9%, females 17 or 6.1%). The program course is at least one and a half year. The average duration of treatment in TC for the completion group was 27.6 +/- 7.1 months. The mean age was 30.9 +/- 6.4 years. About half of them had had a high school education. The majority (84.6%) of them were i.v. heroin addicts. The average drug-use duration was 9.8 +/- 5.7 years. After they completed the program, the clients were followed-up for five years. 203 cases (73.0%) were abstinent from drugs. Of this figure 21 cases (7.6%) had died during the follow-up from illness and accidents not directly related to relapsing to drugs. 75 cases (27.0%) relapsed to drugs. There were no significant differences between the abstinent and relapse cases in age, education, marital status, characteristic of addiction, previous treatment data and I.Q. Duration of treatment in the abstinent cases was longer (3.7 months) than the relapse cases. Significant differences (p < 0.05) were found in some personality characteristics. The relapse cases were neurotic-introversion personality type and had abnormal scores with low or high scores in hypersensitive character. They were likely to be easily stimulated to go back to using drugs. Although the TC program required much time and material resources to operate, the results of treatment were highly effective. The results of this study provide the rational to expand this TC program in order to provide more opportunities to the increasing demands for an effective treatment intervention for Thai addicts.
Needle sharing behaviour among injection drug users (IDUs) in treatment in Montreal and Toronto, 1988-1989.	Injection drug users (IDUs) entering treatment programs in Montreal and Toronto were recruited for a study of drug using behaviour and risk of HIV infection. Only those who had injected within 6 months of entering their treatment program were eligible for participation. 183 subjects were recruited in Montreal and 167 in Toronto between November, 1988 and October, 1989. Each participant completed a standardized interviewer-administered questionnaire which focussed on, among other things, drug history and needle sharing behaviour. Approximately three-quarters of respondents in both cities reported sharing needles and syringes within the 6-month period prior to their entry into treatment. Our analysis, which focussed on variables associated with needle sharing revealed that having a sexual partner who injected, trouble obtaining sterile needles and syringes and cocaine injection were significantly and independently associated with needle sharing in a logistic regression model which also controlled for city of recruitment.
Detoxification for triazolam physical dependence.	The clinical characteristics of a series of patients who developed physical dependence to triazolam has not previously been described. We report five cases of high-dose triazolam abuse in which the daily dosage ranged from 5 to 15 mg (100-300 mg diazepam equivalent) and the duration of use ranged from 3 months to 5 years. Physical dependence usually occurs in the context of a history of alcohol or other drug abuse, a history of panic attacks or anxiety disorder, substitution of triazolam for a longer-acting benzodiazepine, or inappropriate use of triazolam as an anxiolytic agent given as multiple daily doses. A rational approach to the pharmacotherapy of triazolam withdrawal is described. Treatment to replace the triazolam with a long half-life CNS depressant and strategies for this pharmacologic therapy are discussed. The abuse liability of triazolam may be no greater and is most likely less than that of some other benzodiazepines.
An MMPI typology of cocaine abusers.	Three types were found in a cluster analysis of scores on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) of 100 men voluntarily presenting for treatment of cocaine abuse. Type 1 (n = 59) had a mean MMPI profile consistent with the hypothesized grouping of persons who self-medicate with cocaine as a means of overcoming depression. The relatively normal mean MMPI profile obtained by Type 2 (n = 37) suggested little indication of significant psychopathology. Type 3's (n = 4) mean MMPI profile suggested either severe disturbance or profile invalidity. Types were found to differ in the nature of drug use, reactions to cocaine, education level, and social class, but not on the scales of the Adjective Check List.
New measures for assessing alcohol and drug abuse with the MMPI-2: The APS and AAS.	We introduce two new scales for assessing substance abuse problems with the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2): the Addiction Potential Scale (APS), a 39-item empirically derived scale, developed by contrasting the responses of a large residential substance abuse sample with responses from both normative and psychiatric control groups; and the Addiction Acknowledgement Scale (AAS), a 13-item face-valid scale, constructed rationally and with attention to internal consistency. Both new scales are shown to discriminate well between groups and substantially better than other selected substance abuse scales. Covariation between the scales and joint effectiveness are examined. Finally, limitations for their practical utility are expressed, and considerations for future research are identified.
Relation of client variables to continuance in five types of alcohol treatment settings.	Multiple regression analyses were used to assess the relationship of 29 client variables to continuance in five types of alcohol treatment settings (outpatient, inpatient, social detoxification, halfway houses with highly structured treatment regimens, and halfway houses with minimal structured treatment; N = 3,240). Socioeconomic variables were most often related to continuance; however, the pattern of the relationship between predictor variables and continuance varied greatly from setting to setting. The strongest multiple regression coefficients were found for outpatient and inpatient settings and the weakest were found for the two types of halfway house settings. It was concluded that archive-derived variables had significant, but limited, power to predict continuance and that other approaches to investigating continuance are needed.
Personality characteristics of cocaine and alcohol abusers: more alike than different.	Although there is extensive literature describing the characteristics of individuals entering treatment for alcoholism, few research reports are available describing the personality characteristics of individuals addicted to cocaine. Forty-four matched patient pairs, one member of each pair who abused cocaine and the other alcohol, were compared on the basis of their Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) profiles. The subjects were matched on the basis of age, sex, and race from a larger population entering an inpatient addiction treatment center. Statistical analysis revealed more similarities than differences between the two groups, with the average profile type for both cocaine and alcohol abusers being 4-2. These results are discussed in the context of previous reports of psychopathology among cocaine abusers and personality theories of drug choice. The number of different code types within each substance abuse group is also reported and the concept of profile heterogeneity supported. Profile subtypes among cocaine patients are described clinically along with their implications for treatment.
Alcohol and cocaine abuse. A comparison of epidemiology and clinical characteristics.	Increasing numbers of persons presenting for substance abuse treatment are multiple-substance users and their predominant drugs of choice are cocaine and alcohol. There are similarities in the treatment of alcohol and cocaine abuse, but important clinical differences need to be acknowledged. This chapter compares and contrasts the most recent epidemiology and clinical characteristics of both alcohol and cocaine abusers. First, use and abuse trends in the United States for both substances are described. The clinical characteristics of dependence on either substance are contrasted in detail, and finally, treatments are briefly described. Treatment for both disorders can be accomplished in the same setting if important demographic and pharmacological differences are addressed. In either disorder, comorbid psychopathology is frequent and appropriate treatment matching based on diagnosis is imperative.
Hypothalamic-pituitary function during alcohol exposure and withdrawal and cocaine exposure.	This chapter examines the neuroendocrine effects of acute exposure to and withdrawal from alcohol and cocaine, with special emphasis on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. We present the results from two preliminary controlled inpatient studies that document HPA dysfunction during acute exposure to alcohol and cocaine and during withdrawal from alcohol. We discuss the methodological approach of these studies in comparison to related attempts in the literature to use measures of thyroid and prolactin regulation to predict risk of relapse to alcohol and cocaine use, respectively. Our data and the results of related studies are presented in the context of a proposed index of HPA axis dysfunction that may provide a useful clinical measure of susceptibility to relapse during protracted abstinence from alcohol or cocaine.
The role of alcohol in cocaine dependence.	The relationships between the patterns of alcohol and cocaine use are examined using information derived from the authors' research data and from the literature. Excessive alcohol drinking was very prevalent among males seeking treatment for cocaine dependence at a Veterans Administration hospital in West Los Angeles. Fifty percent met DSM-III-R criteria for alcohol dependence. The drug-related behaviors of patients with the diagnosis of dependence on cocaine only were compared with those of patients dependent on cocaine and alcohol. The progression of the cocaine addiction was not significantly different in those two groups. However, patients with dependence on cocaine and alcohol were more likely to be users of other drugs of abuse. Concerning psychosocial behaviors, both groups maintained employment and stable interpersonal relationships throughout significant periods of their addictive career. One year after drug treatment, both subsamples showed significant improvement in terms of cocaine and alcohol use and social adjustment. Research implications and the possibility that both dependent conditions may share neurobehavioral reinforcing mechanisms are discussed.
Outpatient treatment of the mentally ill chemical abuser: an overview of problems and treatment strategies.	Patients who suffer from the effects of mental illness as well as chemical dependency have fared poorly in traditional mental health and substance abuse treatment. Presenting themselves in increasing numbers at both types of settings, they create challenges for clinicians. This article defines the scope of the problem and reviews treatment philosophies for the development of new approaches to care. Social workers can play a leadership role in integrating treatment theory and developing new clinical models in response to the challenges this patient population presents.
Adolescent drug treatment, a family affair: a community day center approach.	This paper describes a day care program for treating youth drug abuse. Day care treatment is situated in the middle, between outpatient care and the full-time alternatives such as residential therapeutic communities. Day care is structured to treat youth drug abuse as a family problem and requires behavioral change in all family members. Some social work interventions aimed at effecting family changes are outlined and illustrated. Follow-up research indicates that this approach is a viable one in treating youth drug abuse.
Substance use disorder diagnostic schedule (SUDDS): the equivalence and validity of a computer-administered and an interviewer-administered format.	In order to evaluate the equivalence of interviewer-administered and computer-administered forms of the substance use disorder diagnostic schedule (SUDDS), both forms were presented to 100 substance-dependent inpatients. An additional 101 psychiatric outpatients were administered one form or the other. For patients who received both forms of the SUDDS, the percentage agreement ranged from 96% for the classification of a lifetime diagnosis of alcohol abuse/dependence to 88% for the classification of current diagnosis of alcohol abuse/dependence (kappa coefficients ranged from 0.709 to 0.865). Overall agreement with a clinician diagnosis (validity) and the two forms of administration varied from 100% for computer-generated diagnosis of current alcohol abuse/dependence to 71% for computer-generated lifetime diagnosis of drug abuse/dependence, when stratified by number of symptoms reported. No consistent differences were found in the performances of the two forms of the SUDDS, and we conclude that they may be used interchangeably.
Effect of fluoxetine on alcohol consumption in male alcoholics.	To test the effect of inhibiting serotonin uptake on voluntary alcohol intake, 20 alcohol-dependent males were housed on a locked hospital ward with 60-ml drinks of 97.5 proof alcohol available in a fixed interval drinking decision paradigm 13 times each day. After a 3-day, single-blind placebo baseline period, 10 subjects each received the serotonin uptake blocker fluoxetine (up to 80 mg po daily) or placebo double-blind for 28 days. The fluoxetine group had a 14% lower alcohol intake during the 1st week only, associated with a lower proportion of requests for alcohol and less craving for alcohol (as rated by research staff). There were no significant effects in later weeks, nor any differences in scores on the Hamilton Depression and Anxiety Scales or the Hopkins Symptom Checklist.
Blood and serum thiamin and thiamin phosphate esters concentrations in patients with alcohol dependence syndrome before and after thiamin treatment.	The blood and serum concentrations of free thiamin and its three phosphate esters were determined concomitantly by a new high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method in 30 patients with alcohol dependence syndrome on admission to hospital and 24 hr after thiamin injection. We studied 24 men and 6 women; mean age, 50 years (range 21 to 69); mean ethanol consumption during the last 30 days, 164 +/- 119 g/day. A control group included 40 healthy volunteers (25 men, 15 women), of whom 10 were given the same thiamin injection as were the patients. Thiamin monophosphate was significantly reduced in the patients compared with controls before treatment (men 2.9 +/- 2.3 and 5.9 +/- 3.1 nmol/liter) and after (8.1 +/- 5.1 and 19.5 +/- 8.1 nmol/liter). On admission, free thiamin and thiamin diphosphate were similar in controls and in patients in whole blood (B) and serum (S) and increased similarly after treatment (mean B-thiamin diphosphate in male patients: 149 +/- 64 to 238 +/- 88 nmol/liter, in controls: 179 +/- 40 to 289 +/- 18 nmol/liter). However, seven patients had extremely high free thiamin values. The phosphorylation ratio was lower in patients than in controls (p less than 0.05), before and after treatment. Finally, the mean B-diphosphate was lower in patients not taking vitamins (116 +/- 48 nmol/liter and 172 +/- 57 nmol/liter) and in patients with polyneuropathy (118 +/- 54 nmol/liter and 173 +/- 52 nmol/liter), compared with the other patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Alcohol and drug abuse treatment at the University of Connecticut Health Center.	This article describes a multidisciplinary team approach to the treatment of alcohol and drug dependence and comorbid disorders. The principal aim of this approach is the identification and treatment of patients' chemical dependence, as well as the medical and psychiatric disorders that contribute to and/or stem from the chronic use of alcohol and drugs. The focus of treatment is on the identification of high risk and other problem situations, training coping skills to handle these situations, developing insight, and enhancing patients' motivation for sobriety and ongoing treatment. In this article we describe the features of our program that address these various goals.
Engaging patients with alcohol problems in treatment: the first consultation.	This paper considers the impact of the first consultation at a specialist alcohol clinic on patients' perceptions of their drink problem and on their expectations of help from three sources: an alcohol clinic, general practitioners and Alcoholics Anonymous. At intake, males had higher expectations than females of help from the alcohol clinic while people in manual occupations and those in the 'less heavy' drinking category had higher expectations of general practitioner help than other patients. Change was found to occur during the first clinic consultation so that by the end of the session patients had raised their rating of problem severity and their expectations of help from the three sources examined. Overall, patient perceptions of the clinic assessment session were positive. The study highlights the importance of obtaining a full understanding of the process of engagement in treatment and indicates the potential of a clinical assessment to effect change in patient attitudes.
The use of services for alcohol problems: general practitioner and specialist alcohol clinic.	A sample of 40 patients referred to a specialist alcohol clinic were given a full assessment by a clinician and then randomly allocated to one of two groups. The first group received continuing care from the clinic. The second group were returned to the management of their general practitioners who were offered specialist support in caring for their patients. Patients and general practitioners were followed-up 6 months after the clinic assessment. This paper reports on the uptake of clinic and general practice services by patients and examines the possible factors associated with continuing attendance, including patient attributes, service activity, patients' self-assessments of their drink problem and their expectations of help from services. Qualitative data is used to examine patients' perceptions and experiences of clinic and general practice-based care for drinking problems. The findings highlight some of the difficulties reported by patients in receiving help for their problems particularly from general practitioners.
Validity of patients' self-reported drug use as a function of treatment status.	Recent reviews conclude that there is some evidence that drug abusers' self-reports are reliable and valid. However, there are wide variations among studies depending upon the samples and procedures used to obtain the data. The current study was conducted to extend the findings in this area. An examination of the intake interviews and same day urinalyses on 150 patients enrolling for outpatient opioid detoxification or maintenance revealed a fairly high agreement between drug use self-reports and urinalyses. A second study (N = 70) looking at the validity of self-reported drug use at intake and at 4 weeks follow-up revealed some noticeable changes in validity measures, suggesting that contingencies on positive urine results influence self reported drug use of addicts.
Characteristics of attenders to community based alcohol treatment centre with special reference to sex difference.	Alcohol misusers attending a London community day treatment centre were interviewed about their drinking habits and the expectations they had of the treatment they were receiving. The results show that the women experienced twice as many alcohol related problems as the men and were significantly more dependent upon alcohol. The men reported that they hoped to improve their health and confidence by coming for treatment.
Mad, bad and dangerous to know: dimensions and measurement of attitudes toward injecting drug users.	Attitudes toward injecting drug users were assessed using a 53-item questionnaire which was administered to 143 workers at a drug and alcohol research unit and an AIDS treatment facility. Factor analysis revealed three interpretable dimensions: intravenous drug use as a matter of both public concern and personal inadequacy; intravenous drug users as criminals who should be removed from society; and social avoidance of, and personal distaste for, intravenous drug users. The scale and subscales had good test-retest reliability and internal consistency. Its potential use as a measure of attitudes toward injecting drug users for both treatment research and AIDS research is discussed.
The Chemical Use, Abuse, and Dependence Scale (CUAD). Rationale, reliability, and validity.	This article describes the rationale for the development of the Chemical Use, Abuse, and Dependence Scale (CUAD). The instrument is in a semistructured interview format; it derives both substance use severity scores and DSM-III-R substance use disorder diagnoses and can be administered in a short period with minimal training. The reliability and validity of the CUAD are reported and appear satisfactory. The CUAD is recommended for use as a detection, diagnostic, and treatment selection index in clinical, research, and program evaluation contexts.
Prevalence of psychopathology in drug-addicted Dutch.	In Dutch samples of treated heroin addicts, high prevalences of a heterogeneous psychiatric co-morbidity can be found with regard to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (third edition) (DSM-III) classifications, Zung Depression Inventory, and sum scores of a 90-item Symptom Checklist (SCL-90). A high-threshold (N = 87) and a low-threshold (N = 116) program are compared with regard to psychopathology and severity of psychopathology. A consecutive admissions design was used. More than 50% of the respondents suffered from a lifetime DSM-III Axis I disorder (70% with antisocial personality disorder included), and 40% were still suffering from one of the disorders in the year preceding the interview. Schizophrenia was diagnosed five times as much as in normal population samples (5%). The most frequently diagnosed disorders were recurrent major depression, phobic disorders, alcohol abuse and dependence, dysthymic disorder, and antisocial personality disorder. The prevalences of DSM-III disorders, the total number of symptoms, and the score on the Zung Depression Inventory and 90-item Symptom Checklist were all significantly higher in treatment-seeking drug addicts entering the high-threshold program. Within each program, three clinically meaningful subgroups can be distinguished: one group with DSM-III Axis I lifetime or current psychopathology and/or antisocial personality disorder, one with antisocial personality disorder only, and one with neither DSM-III psychopathology nor antisocial personality disorder. Possibly, self-selection results in patients with more serious conditions entering more treatment-oriented facilities. Odds ratios show that schizophrenia and mood disorders and especially associated on a lifetime and current basis.
Adapting the chronic disease model in the treatment of dually diagnosed patients.	This article suggests that while the focal point of inpatient treatment in the field of addiction should continue to be abstinence and 12-step programs, there should be considerable modification of the process of treatment. Many of the present inpatient psychiatric hospitals that treat addiction seem to be largely unaware of the biochemistry and physiology of early recovery. A model of treatment is proposed that takes into account the neurocognitive impairment and emotional augmentation that is present in early recovery. The focus of active treatment in this program is the treatment of the addictive process. The psychiatric diagnosis is managed through supportive psychotherapy and/or education if appropriate. Active treatment of the psychiatric diagnosis is deferred to outpatient treatment.
Relapse among alcoholics with phobic and panic symptoms.	A group of 35 alcoholics who indicated they had symptoms of phobia, panic, or both (the anxiety problem group) were compared to their matched controls who did not indicate having anxiety problems. Comparisons of relapse rates, reasons for relapse, and rates of emotional problems at six months posttreatment were made. Results showed that although relapse rates were similar between the two groups, significantly more anxious subjects reported relapsing to cope with depression and experiencing problems with nervousness, tension, and anger posttreatment. Implications for treatment and the need for further research are discussed.
Predicting cocaine use among methadone patients: analysis of findings from a national study.	Findings from a large-scale national study of clients admitted to publicly funded drug treatment programs between 1979 and 1981 were used to determine whether cocaine use by current and former methadone patients could be predicted. The sample for this analysis comprised 526 daily or weekly heroin users admitted to 17 methadone maintenance programs. The study found that cocaine use by both current and former methadone patients showed an overall decline during the follow-up year; that patients who stopped using heroin after entering treatment were much more likely to quit using cocaine than were their heroin-using counterparts; and that the odds of initiating cocaine use after admission to a methadone program were much higher among patients who continued using heroin. These findings suggest that methadone programs may be able to reduce cocaine use among some patients by improving their effectiveness in reducing heroin use.
HIV and chemically dependent women: recommendations for appropriate health care and drug treatment services.	Intravenous drug use is the single largest exposure category among women with AIDS in the United States (51%). Tragically, there may be insufficient appreciation of the issues unique to IV drug usage among women. Few drug treatment programs are specifically designed for women, and fewer still are aimed at HIV positive women. Treatment models relevant to women in light of the AIDS epidemic should: include changes in admission criteria and treatment methods; provide comprehensive services (including parenting and employment skills workshops and access to health care); and incorporate research and evaluation components with planned dissemination of results.
A cognitive-existential analysis of counselor responses to HIV-positive substance misusers in an outpatient methadone program and a residential therapeutic community.	Counselors of HIV-afflicted substance abusers not only must apply counseling strategies directed toward curbing drug use, but also are called upon to assess suicide risk, attend to the promotion of social support, treat adverse affective reactions, and respond to spiritual and existential concerns. The present study attempted to explore systematically the self-reported feelings, thoughts, and behaviors of counselors as they confront such demands. All counselors reported experiencing increased stress as a result of working with HIV-afflicted clients, and cognitive distortions were sometimes noted in counselor responses. However, more generally, thoughts seemed clearly formulated, and planned behaviors appeared directed toward rendering the best treatment possible.
Acute effects of buprenorphine, hydromorphone and naloxone in methadone-maintained volunteers.	Buprenorphine is an opioid agonist-antagonist being evaluated for treatment of opioid dependence. This study characterized the effects of buprenorphine in comparison to naloxone, hydromorphone and saline, in methadone-dependent volunteers. In a residential laboratory, 6 volunteer male opioid abusers maintained on 30 mg of methadone daily underwent pharmacological challenges 2 to 3 times per week. Pharmacological challenges consisted of a double-blind i.m. injection of: buprenorphine (dose range 0.5-8.0 mg), hydromorphone (5 and 10 mg), naloxone (0.1 and 0.2 mg) or saline. Injections were given 20 hr after the last dose of methadone. Measures included physiologic indices, and self-report and observer ratings of drug effects. Naloxone and hydromorphone produced characteristic antagonist-like and agonist-like effects, respectively, on subjective, observer and physiologic indices. None of the doses of buprenorphine were consistently or systematically identified as an opioid agonist or antagonist on any of the measures. Thus buprenorphine produced minimal effects in methadone-dependent patients. The lack of agonist effects suggests buprenorphine has a low abuse potential in methadone-dependent patients. The lack of antagonist effects suggests buprenorphine can be administered safely to subjects dependent on a low dose of methadone. This lack of effect of buprenorphine distinguishes it from other mixed agonist antagonists previously tested, which produced antagonist effects in this procedure.
Artefact or reality? Increases in persons notified to the Regional Drug Misuse Database in the South West of England, 1996-2001.	The incidence of new persons and repeat attenders presenting for treatment for problem drug misuse in the South West of England more than doubled from 1996-1997 to 2000-2001. During this time there was an increase in the number and severity of chronic cases, both in terms of the prevalence of heroin and crack-cocaine use and in the frequency of injecting and sharing injecting equipment. Growth in the availability of treatment, changes in notification practice and sub-regional variation make it difficult to be confident about real rates of increase, or age, gender and substance misuse changes, but the size of these changes mean they are unlikely to be purely artefactal.
Nutrition education is positively associated with substance abuse treatment program outcomes.	The scope and types of nutrition services provided in substance abuse treatment programs has not been well defined nor has there been an attempt to determine if associations exist between the provision of nutrition services and substance abuse treatment outcomes. The objectives of this study were to assess the provision (use and extent) of nutrition education in substance abuse treatment programs in facilities that provide a single or two or more substance abuse treatment programs, and to determine the possible association between nutrition intervention and substance abuse treatment program outcome measures (defined as changes in Addiction Severity Index [ASI] composite scores). A descriptive, single, cross-sectional survey of registered dietitians with clinical nutrition program management responsibility (n=152) was used to define the use and extent of nutrition services in substance abuse treatment programs. Positive associations between nutrition services provided, particularly nutrition education services and substance abuse treatment program outcome measures, were detected. When group nutrition/substance abuse education was offered, ASI psychological and medical domain scores improved by 68% and 56%, respectively (P<.05). Individual nutrition/substance abuse education was a predictor of ASI family/social domain change scores improving by 99% (P<.05). In those programs where group nutrition/substance abuse education was offered, moderate to strong correlations with various nutrition education services were observed, specifically in individual nutrition/substance abuse education (r=0.51; P<.05), group normal/nutrition education (r=0.64; P<.01), and individual normal/nutrition education (r=0.46; P<.05). Substance abuse treatment programs offering group nutrition/substance abuse education offered significantly (P<.05) more nutrition services overall. Findings support the position that nutrition education is an essential component of substance abuse treatment programs and can enhance substance abuse treatment outcomes. Dietitians should promote and encourage the inclusion of nutrition education into substance abuse treatment programs.
The search for insight: Clients' psychological experiences of alcohol withdrawal in a voluntary, residential, health care setting.	This study utilized a life history approach to describe clients' psychological experiences of the alcohol withdrawal process while voluntarily residing in a specialist alcohol withdrawal facility. Reflection on the past and anticipation of the future frequently occupied the thoughts of participants as they sought insight in to their lives. These insights were associated with a range of emotions that included embarrassment, shame, optimism, feelings of support and a sense of loss of control. The findings provide additional information on the human experience of alcohol withdrawal and, thus, increase empathy, understanding and knowledge. This increased understanding can be utilized to improve the quality of nursing care provided to this complex client group.
A community based programme to improve access to dental services for drug users.	In 1999 South Lancashire Health Authority published their Oral Health Improvement Plan in which they specifically identified drug users as a target group. In this paper the authors outline the development of a project, which aimed to improve access to dental services for this group. Essential to the relative success of the project was the inclusion of drug users and service providers at the outset. In addition perceived barriers, which exist between drug users and the profession have started to be broken down.
Personality, psychopathology, and demographic correlates of medical vs behavioral reasons for referral in alcoholic men.	The personality, psychopathological, and demographic differences between 330 alcoholic men referred for behavioral problems and 104 alcoholic men referred for medical problems were examined. The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 indicated that those referred for behavioral problems showed more antisocial characteristics, while those referred for medical reasons had more subjective distress, were more highly introverted, and showed greater somatic preoccupation. Hispanic alcoholic men had a significantly higher proportion of medical referrals than Caucasian and African-American alcoholic men.
Use of the SF-36 in the evaluation of a drug detoxification program.	The aim of this study was to analyse whether the SF-36 questionnaire is a useful tool to evaluate the treatment outcome of a drug detoxification program.
Smoking stage of change is associated with retention in a smoke-free residential drug treatment program for women.	Prochaska and DiClemente's Transtheoretical Model predicts dropout from substance-abuse treatment. However, it is not known whether readiness to quit smoking is associated with attrition from drug treatment programs with smoking restrictions. This study examined the relationship between smoking characteristics, smoking stage of change, and both length of stay (LOS) and discharge type among 75 perinatal substance abusers attending a smoke-free residential treatment program. URICA scores predicted LOS (P=.0004) and discharge type (P=.01). Women in action and maintenance remained in treatment longer and were more likely to complete treatment compared to those in precontemplation. Findings were not accounted for by addiction severity. Women with little interest in quitting smoking may have difficulty adhering to smoking restrictions during treatment for other drug problems, resulting in increased attrition. Alternatively, smoking stage of change may be a "proxy" for overall readiness to change in this population.
Moving evidence-based drug abuse prevention programs from basic science to practice: "bridging the efficacy-effectiveness interface".	This article examines the challenges faced by developers of youth drug abuse prevention programs in transporting scientifically proven or evidence-based programs into natural community practice systems. Models for research on the transfer of prevention technology are described with specific emphasis given to the relationship between efficacy and effectiveness studies. Barriers that impede the successful integration of efficacy methods within effectiveness studies (e.g., client factors, practitioner factors, intervention structure characteristics, and environmental and organizational factors) are discussed. We present a modified model for program development and evaluation that includes a new type of research design, the hybrid efficacy-effectiveness study that addresses program transportability. The utility of the hybrid study is illustrated in the evaluation of the Early Risers "Skills for Success" prevention program.
A syndromic rash in patients attending methadone clinics in New South Wales.	We report an outbreak of a "rash" syndrome in patients attending methadone clinics in New South Wales. It presents with a pruritic, exanthematous or purpuric rash involving the trunk, limbs, palms and soles, which develops over a week and proceeds in most patients to desquamation (mainly of palms and soles) persisting for 3-4 weeks. Mucosae are not involved, and patients are generally systemically well. To date, the rash has affected 22% of 316 patients attending one methadone clinic in western Sydney, as well as patients in clinics elsewhere in Sydney and rural NSW. The aetiology is as yet unknown.
Significantly higher methadone dose for methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) patients with chronic pain.	The aim of this study is to characterize patients with chronic pain in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT). Between September and December, 2003, 170 consecutive patients from an MMT clinic participated in a questionnaire survey on pain (duration and severity). Chronic pain was defined as current pain lasting for >or=6 months. The patients' maintenance methadone dosage and urine tests for drug abuse during the month before and of the survey were recorded. Of the 170 patients, 94 (55.3%) experienced chronic pain. They had a significantly higher proportion of chronic illness (74.5%) compared to non-pain patients (44.7%) (Fisher's Exact Test P<0.0005). Twelve (12.8%) of the chronic pain patients scored their pain as mild, 38 (40.4%) as moderate, 22 (23.4%) as severe and 22 (23.4%) as very severe. Pain duration significantly correlated with pain severity (Pearson R=0.3, P>0.0005) and was significantly associated with methadone daily dosage: patients with pain duration of >or=10 years (n=26) were receiving the highest methadone dosage (182.1+/-59.2 mg/day), those with pain duration from 1 to 10 years (n=59) 160.9+/-56.2 mg/day, and those with pain duration of <1 year (n=9) 134.2+/-73.2 mg/day. Patients in the non-pain group (n=76) were receiving 147.1+/-52.8 mg/day of methadone (ANOVA, F=3.1, P=0.03). We conclude that pain duration and severity significantly correlated. Although methadone was not prescribed for the treatment of pain but rather for opiate addiction, the patients in the MMT clinic with prolonged pain were prescribed a significantly higher methadone dosage compared to patients with short pain duration, and non-pain patients.
The effect of 12-step self-help group attendance and participation on drug use outcomes among cocaine-dependent patients.	Although cocaine-dependent patients are frequently referred to 12-step self-help groups, little research has examined the benefits of 12-step group attendance in this population. Moreover, the distinction between attending meetings and actively participating in 12-step activities has not typically been examined.
Effect of community nurse follow-up when treating alcohol dependence with acamprosate.	To measure the effect of community nurse follow-up on abstinence and retention rates in the outpatient treatment of alcohol-dependent patients treated with acamprosate.
Acupuncture for substance abuse treatment in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver.	In British Columbia, Canada, the City of Vancouver's notorious Downtown Eastside (DES) represents the poorest urban population in Canada. A prevalence rate of 30% for HIV and 90% for hepatitis C makes this a priority area for public-health interventions aimed at reducing the use of injected drugs. This study examined the utility of acupuncture treatment in reducing substance use in the marginalized, transient population. Acupuncture was offered on a voluntary, drop-in basis 5 days per week at two community agencies. During a 3-month period, the program generated 2,755 client visits. A reduction in overall use of substances (P=.01) was reported by subjects in addition to a decrease in intensity of withdrawal symptoms including "shakes," stomach cramps, hallucinations, "muddle-headedness," insomnia, muscle aches, nausea, sweating, heart palpitations, and feeling suicidal, P<.05. Acupuncture offered in the context of a community-based harm reduction model holds promise as an adjunct therapy for reduction of substance use.
Homeless chronicity and health-related quality of life trajectories among adults with addictions.	New federal initiatives target funds toward chronically homeless as distinct from other homeless persons. Few data exist, however, to substantiate the implications of chronic homelessness for major health outcomes.
A model to provide comprehensive testing for HIV, viral hepatitis, and sexually transmitted infections at a short-term drug treatment center.	Substance users are at high risk for blood-borne infections as well as those that are transmitted sexually. Substance abuse treatment centers present an opportunity to offer comprehensive counseling and testing (CCT) for HIV, viral hepatitis, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) to this high-risk population. We examined the feasibility and acceptability of one model of CCT among substance users. CCT was offered to 145 consecutive inpatients; study participants completed a risk factor questionnaire and selected from a menu of testing options. Thirty-six percent of those approached agreed to participate and accepted at least one biologic test. Sixty-two percent of participants accepted all tests that were offered. While beneficial to those who accept testing, the described model of CCT is feasible in a drug treatment center, but acceptable to only a minority of inpatients.
A survey of PTSD screening and referral practices in VA addiction treatment programs.	Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use disorders (SUDs) demonstrate worse outcomes following treatment for SUDs than do veterans with SUDs only, and so PTSD treatment may enhance SUD outcomes for patients. A survey of current practice patterns in VA SUD treatment programs was undertaken to determine their concurrence with emerging practice guidelines for the assessment and treatment of SUD-PTSD comorbidity. Clinicians in outpatient SUD clinics and/or inpatient SUD programs were surveyed in six VA medical centers in 1999 and 2001 (respondents n = 57 and n = 39, respectively). Although one half to two thirds of clinicians working with SUD patients routinely screen for trauma exposure and PTSD, few assessments are systematically conducted using validated measures. Routine referrals to PTSD specialty and dual-diagnosis programs and to veterans' centers are made by between 35% and 60% of providers across inpatient and outpatient settings. Implications for improvement of clinical outcomes are discussed.
An overview of systematic reviews of the effectiveness of opiate maintenance therapies: available evidence to inform clinical practice and research.	To summarize the major findings of the five Cochrane reviews on substitution maintenance treatments for opioid dependence.
Differential impact of severity of drug use on frontal behavioral symptoms.	Increasing evidence indicates that substance abusers are impaired in cognitive-executive control tasks relying on different functional systems converging in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Different PFC functional systems relevant to addiction have been described: the dorsolateral (DLC), orbitofrontal (OFC), and anterior cingulate (ACC) circuits. Each system is associated with different behavioral, cognitive, and emotional deficits, including apathy, disinhibition, and executive dysfunction. In this study, we examined the effects of severity of use of different drugs on apathy, disinhibition and executive dysfunction behavioral deficits as measured by the Frontal Systems Behavior Scale (FrSBe). The FrSBe, and a severity of substance use interview were administered to 32 poly-substance abusers. Multiple regression analyses showed that severity of cannabis use significantly predicted greater apathy and executive dysfunction behavior; and that severity of cocaine use significantly predicted greater disinhibition behavior. These results are consistent with previous studies using cognitive measures and support the notion that severity of substance use significantly affects behavioral symptoms associated with PFC systems functioning. These clinical symptoms should be specifically addressed during rehabilitation.
A pilot study of motivation and treatment completion among American Indian adolescents in substance abuse treatment.	This study assessed intrinsic and extrinsic motivation toward treatment among American Indian adolescents 13-18 years old admitted to a residential substance abuse treatment program and the relationship of these measures to treatment completion. Participants completed a questionnaire regarding motivation towards treatment and a diagnostic interview. Participant treatment records were also reviewed. Being an older adolescent (16-18 years old), having higher scores on a scale measuring treatment readiness and endorsing a single question regarding concern about legal problems were all associated with treatment completion. The relationship of an additional scale measuring desire for help with substance use problems was mediated by the measure of treatment readiness. This pilot study is the first to assess the relationship of motivation toward substance abuse treatment completion among American Indian adolescents and provides preliminary evidence of the applicability of these concepts to this treatment population. These concepts and their related therapeutic approaches warrant further study in this population.
Methadone maintenance of HIV-infected drug addicts with immune deficiency]	The Norwegian policy on methadone maintenance is restrictive. Support is given to needle dispensing programmes, HIV testing and drug rehabilitation programmes. In contrast, the central health authorities have opposed any methadone treatment except for methadone maintenance for HIV infected drug abusers with immune deficiency and in need of AZT treatment. "Akuttinstitusjonen" (The detoxification unit in Oslo) and the Infectious Diseases Unit at Ullevl Hospital have developed a model for treatment programme in cooperation with the local health and social services. We describe six cases, and discuss experiences in relation to the Norwegian policy on drugs. We conclude that the positive factors outweigh the negative. Basically, it should be possible to apply the model throughout Norway. In Oslo the case load creates a need for specialized therapeutic team.
Personality characteristics of alcohol dependent inpatients: relationship of MCMI subtypes to self-reported drinking behavior.	Recent cluster analytic research with alcoholic inpatients has demonstrated the existence of several Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI) clusters that appear to be consistent across different subject samples. The validity of these data would be strengthened by a statistical demonstration of the similarity of attained clusters across studies--a demonstration of concordance of subject classification across different clustering techniques on the same data set- and the inclusion of external, independent measures against which to evaluate the predictive validity of the cluster typology. We found a high level of concordance in subject classification across different clustering methods on the same data set and a high level of agreement with cluster typologies attained in previous studies. Subsequent multivariate analyses employing independent scales measuring various aspects of alcohol use confirmed differences among cluster members on perceived benefits of alcohol use and deleterious effects of alcohol use. The prominent differences in alcohol use along with a rationale for their development are discussed.
The perceptions of program directors and clients regarding the efficacy of methadone treatment.	A statewide sample of regional coordinators, program directors, and clients associated with opiate addiction treatment programs revealed their biases and expectations regarding the efficacy of methadone as a form of treatment. Methadone and drug-free program directors held consistent beliefs about treatment except the efficacy of methadone. Prior methadone clients currently in drug-free programs were skeptical of the methadone treatment, unlike clients currently in methadone treatment. The data reveal differences of opinions across the levels of the treatment system represented in the survey. In policy decisions, the need to consider empirical evidence in addition to personal opinions is emphasized, if consensus is ever to be realized.
Critical incidents: failure in prevention.	Attempts at preventing drug and alcohol use by youth may fail more often than they succeed, but failures are rarely reported in the literature. There are three types of failure: (1) failure to initiate, (2) failure to be effective, and (3) failure to thrive. Brief descriptions of prevention failures of all three types are presented and the reasons for failure are discussed.
Enhancing participation in substance abuse treatment using an incentive system.	A contingency management system is described for enhancing participation in an inpatient chemical dependency rehabilitation program. The system employs reinforcers that are readily available in a residential milieu and makes receipt of them contingent upon appropriate patient behaviors. The behaviors include arranging aftercare treatment, involving family members in the treatment process, appropriate participation in ongoing treatment activities, and assisting with unit chores. A patient's status within the program is first regulated on a noncontingent basis, after which an accumulation of nine specified accomplishments results in the acquisition of a number of privileges. Accumulation of three demerits, given for inappropriate behaviors, results in a status reduction that can only be restored by completing ten additional behaviors. Improvement in patients' program involvement was documented in a number of areas, with a concomitant reduction in resistance to treatment. The system also resulted in an improvement in staff's charting of patients' behavior.
Follow-up of a cohort of alcoholic patients through 12 months of comprehensive biobehavioral treatment.	One hundred and eleven socially stable alcoholic patients were subjected to a comprehensive diagnostic and treatment protocol based on a biobehavioral model of alcoholism. Physical pathology, malnutrition, and toxicity were prevalent throughout the sample. After a period of inpatient care, subjects were treated for a period of 12 months with a combination of medical, nutritional, behavioral, and psychological support and care. At the end of the study period, 91 subjects (81.9%) remained in treatment contact. Sixty seven subjects (60.4%) were abstinent and physically stable at the 12-month date. Elevations of three scales of the MMPI were significantly predictive of treatment outcome.
Social networks and recovery: one year after inpatient treatment.	In an effort to understand the effect of social networks on outcome for treatment of alcoholism, a 1-year follow-up prospective study of 156 inpatients was undertaken. Treatment outcome was associated with diverse aspects of the social network: whether individuals were family, friends, or co-workers; the type of relationship--whether or not drinking together was part of social interaction; and the presence of social support, both perceived support and support through participation in treatment. Hierarchical path analysis using Lisrel 6 was used to analyze the data. The active support of co-workers not regularly drinking with the patient and the perceived support of co-workers without respect to their drinking were influential in recovery, exerting positive and negative effects, respectively. The indirect effect of other variables indicates that nondrinking and drinking family and friend relationships also exert positive and negative effects, respectively. The authors suggest that a major factor in recovery is the ability to elicit and receive support. Improving this ability may be a fruitful objective in treatment.
Principal components analysis of the Psychological Screening Inventory in a sample of substance abusers.	A principal components analysis of responses to the Psychological Screening Inventory from a sample of substance abusers was conducted. Subjects were 153 inpatients admitted to a midwestern program for chemical dependency treatment. Means for age and education were 28.0 yr. (SD = 8.1) and 11.4 (SD = 1.8), respectively. Analysis indicated that a two-factor solution best described these data. Factor 1 reflected over-all maladjustment, while Factor 2 was a measure of extroversion. Clinical utility of the inventory was discussed.
Moderators of delay tolerance in treatment-seeking cocaine users.	A substantial amount of attrition in cocaine dependence treatment studies occurs between the initial telephone contact and the first evaluative clinic visit. While decreasing the wait to first visit can significantly reduce pre-intake attrition (PIA), little is known about other factors that moderate delay tolerance for first clinic visit. The current report uses data from 833 subjects who completed a first-contact telephone interview prior to an intake evaluation visit for cocaine use treatment research. Hierarchical logistic regression was used to assess three successive models to predict PIA, with the most inclusive model testing interactions between delay interval and seven predictors: age, gender, treatment motivation, recency of cocaine, alcohol, and tobacco use, and self-reported depression. Consistent with previous reports, greater delay to first clinic visit predicted PIA. However, no evidence for the moderating role of the selected factors was found. Overall, the utility of the logistic models, built on basic demographic and psychiatric factors, was poor, as evaluated using receiver-operator characteristic curves. Alternative factors must be examined to identify predictors that will increase probability of initial enrolment in cocaine-dependence clinical trials.
An outbreak of influenza in a residential drug-rehabilitation community.	Influenza outbreaks can be difficult to control in confined settings where high-risk individuals are concentrated. Following the occurrence of a large number of cases of influenza-like illness in a rehabilitation community for drug users, between February and March 2004, surveillance activities were implemented. Attack rates of influenza-like illness were calculated, and risk factors for the development of disease and complications were evaluated through the use of relative risks (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Nasal-pharyngeal samples were collected for virological studies. Of 1,310 persons who were living in the community, 209 were diagnosed with influenza-like illness: the attack rate (15.9% overall) was higher for HIV-infected persons (RR: 1.77, 95% CI: 1.32-2.37), older individuals, and dormitory residents. HIV-infected participants were also more likely to develop complications compared with HIV-uninfected persons diagnosed with influenza-like illness (RR: 5.13, 95% CI: 2.52-10.20). The outbreak was attributable to Christchurch-like influenza A strains. Vaccination was ineffective because of the mismatch between wild and vaccine strains.
Increasing access to program information: a strategy for improving adolescent health.	To identify existing programs serving 11- to 15-year-olds that aim to improve adolescent health in the areas of Health & Well-being, Fitness, Family & Peer Relationships, School Environment, Smoking, Alcohol Use, and Violence and to assess the utility of readily available resources in providing detailed program information.
Controlled study on the combined effect of alcohol and tobacco smoking on testosterone in alcohol-dependent men.	The present study examined the association between pre-treatment drinking and smoking parameters and plasma testosterone levels before and after alcohol withdrawal.
In-patient detoxification procedures, treatment retention, and post-treatment opiate use: comparison of lofexidine + naloxone, lofexidine + placebo, and methadone.	In-treatment and post-treatment outcomes were compared for three detoxification procedures (lofexidine+naloxone, lofexidine+placebo naloxone, and methadone). SAMPLE AND DESIGN: The sample was 137 opiate dependent in-patients. Detoxification treatments were 6-day lofexidine+naloxone (n=45), lofexidine+placebo naloxone (n=46), or 10-day methadone reduction (n=46). A cohort study design was used with double-blind random allocation to lofexidine+naloxone versus lofexidine+placebo. Patients who did not consent to, or who were excluded from randomisation received methadone.
Referral for chronic hepatitis C treatment from a drug dependency treatment setting.	To examine rates and predictors of referral for hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment and preliminary treatment outcomes in injecting drug users (IDUs) receiving opioid replacement treatment, a prospective clinical audit was undertaken in an inner city Sydney drug dependency treatment practice between December 2002 and November 2005. The majority of IDUs (178/237; 75%) were HCV antibody positive, of whom 170 were HCV treatment nave with no absolute treatment contraindications. Among these 170 patients, 121 (71%) had chronic HCV. Based on risk factors for HCV disease progression, 63 of 121 (52%) chronic HCV patients were targeted for referral; these patients were older, had higher alanine aminotransferase levels and longer estimated duration of HCV infection. Of these 63 patients, 43 were referred to a hepatitis treatment clinic, and 27 attended during the audit period. Patients who attended for treatment assessment were more likely to have genotype 2 or 3 (p<0.001), but socio-behavioural factors were similar. Liver biopsy was performed in 20 patients, with moderate or greater fibrosis in 18 patients. Of 14 patients commenced on pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin therapy, one ceased treatment due to non-response, 10 have completed treatment, all with an end-of-treatment (n=4) or sustained virological response (n=6), and treatment is ongoing in three. The development of HCV treatment referral criteria has allowed prioritisation of patients for referral, potentially halving those that require early assessment. Preliminary HCV treatment outcomes are encouraging and highlight the potential for reducing liver disease burden in this patient population.
Substance use treatment outcomes for youth: integrating personal and environmental predictors.	This investigation examined personal and environmental predictors of substance treatment outcomes in youth. A 424 adolescents (M=15.9 years, S.D.=1.3) completed comprehensive assessments, including substance use, environmental factors (e.g., family history, social supports), and person-centered variables (e.g., Axis I diagnosis, motivation, self-esteem), at study intake and throughout the year following inpatient treatment. Youth treatment outcomes were assessed by relapse status (abstaining, minor relapse, major relapse) and DSM-IV dependence symptoms at 1 year. Relapse status was predicted by demographic (age), environmental (social supports), and person-centered factors (diagnosis) while dependence symptoms were best predicted by substance use variables alone. Consideration of the general and specific nature of risk and protection within the adolescent developmental context were explored.
Knowledge and attitudes about pharmacotherapy for alcoholism: a survey of counselors and administrators in community-based addiction treatment centres.	Medications, when combined with psychosocial therapy, can improve treatment outcomes in alcoholics; however, medications are not widely utilized in community-based addiction treatment centres. Of interest is how non-medical addiction treatment professionals in these facilities view adjunctive pharmacotherapies for alcoholism. The present report focuses on baseline data collected during the course of an educational intervention project and explores predictors of positive attitudes about adjunctive pharmacotherapies among community addiction counselors and administrators.
Violence from young women involuntarily admitted for severe drug abuse.	To simultaneously evaluate actuarial and dynamic predictors of severe in-patient violence among women involuntarily admitted for severe drug abuse.
The effect of assertive continuing care on continuing care linkage, adherence and abstinence following residential treatment for adolescents with substance use disorders.	This study compared assertive continuing care (ACC) to usual continuing care (UCC) on linkage, retention and a measure of continuing care adherence. Outcome analyses tested the direct and indirect effects of both conditions and level of adherence on early (months 1-3) and longer-term (months 4-9) abstinence.
Menstrual cycle in women addicted to alcohol during the first week following drinking cessation--changes of sex hormones levels in relation to selected clinical features.	To assess the prevalence of hormonal dysfunction in women addicted to alcohol during first week following drinking cessation; to determine whether fluctuations of hormone levels in follicular, ovulation and luteal phases in addicted women are equal to those normally found in healthy women; to determine the association between hormonal imbalances with selected clinical features.
Prison-based treatment for drug-dependent women offenders: treatment versus no treatment.	This outcome study compared six- and 12-month return-to-custody data for 171 treatment participants and 145 nontreated general population inmates at the Central California Women's Facility (implementing a traditional TC program). Findings showed that there were no differences between the TC treatment group and the no treatment comparison group with regard to six- and 12-month return-to-custody rates (six-month: 16% vs. 16% and 12-month: 36% vs. 27%). The only significant difference in six-month return-to-custody rates was found between treatment-only participants (21%) and the treatment plus aftercare participants (6%). Treatment participants who participated in community-based aftercare were significantly less likely to be returned to custody compared with those who did not participate in aftercare. Multivariate analysis was also used to control for the large difference in psychological impairment between the two groups and other background factors related to reincarceration, while assessing the effect of treatment group status on return-to-custody. Findings indicated that treatment/no-treatment status was not significantly related to a six- or 12-month return-to-custody. However, success on parole was associated with participation in community-based aftercare. The lack of a prison-based treatment effect could be an indication that drug-dependent women offenders need gender-responsive treatment that is designed specifically for their complex needs.
Two-year outcomes of treatment for methamphetamine use.	While evaluation research supports the general effectiveness of substance abuse treatment, there is not a comprehensive literature on treatment effectiveness for methamphetamine (MA) use. The authors consider three outcome measures--MA use, criminal activity, and employment--compared across three periods: 24-months pretreatment, during treatment, and 24-months post-treatment. Data are from an intensive natural history interview conducted two to three years after treatment for 349 randomly selected admissions to treatment for MA abuse in a large publicly-funded county treatment system. Through this naturalistic design, data provide a system-wide perspective on effectiveness of treatment as usual. Results showed reduction in MA use and crime during and following treatment and increased employment following treatment over pretreatment levels. Regression analyses showed higher levels of education and more time in treatment related to more positive post-treatment outcomes for all three measures. Lower percentage of post-treatment months with MA use also was related to more pretreatment MA-related problems, lower pretreatment MA use, and residential (compared to outpatient) treatment modality. Lower post-treatment criminal activity was also related to gender (being female), lower pretreatment criminal activity, and residential modality. Higher percentage of post-treatment months with employment also was related to gender (being male), ethnicity (not African-American), and higher pretreatment employment.
Predictors of a suicide attempt one year after entry into substance use disorder treatment.	The present study examined the patient intake and treatment-related risk factors associated with a suicide attempt in the 30 days before a 1-year posttreatment assessment.
Buprenorphine replacement therapy for adolescents with opioid dependence: early experience from a children's hospital-based outpatient treatment program.	Opioid use by adolescents is on the rise and replacement therapy is an effective treatment. Methadone replacement has been used safely and effectively with adults, but methadone programs are often unattractive to teenagers. Buprenorphine is a new replacement therapy that has been shown to be as effective as high dose methadone and may be better suited for the treatment of younger patients. We describe the experiences of several adolescent patients who received treatment from an outpatient adolescent substance abuse program that operates within a children's hospital, with an emphasis on issues of adolescent development.
Assessing referrals for pharmacotherapy: a comparison of therapist and client report.	The primary goal of this study was to assess whether therapist self-reported use of referrals for pharmacotherapy with clients for the treatment of substance abuse disorders is consistent with actual rates of referrals experienced by clients. Participants were 20 substance abuse counselors and 120 clients at a large, multisite substance abuse treatment center. Therapists were asked to complete a brief measure of their current use of referrals for pharmacotherapy, including agonist and antagonist approaches. Clients were asked to complete a brief measure indicating whether their individual counselor had discussed with them a referral for medication. Counselor reports were linked to their individual clients and compared for validation. Results indicate that therapist self-report is significantly correlated with client report of referrals for pharmacotherapy. These results indicate that although therapist self-report of adherence to more involved treatment approaches is often unreliable, substance abuse counselors are able to reliably report their use of referrals.
Factors affecting the outcome of methadone maintenance treatment in opiate dependence.	This study aimed to measure the rates of ongoing heroin abuse among patients on methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) and sought to identify patient and treatment characteristics associated with poorer outcome. The study was carried out at an outpatient drug treatment clinic and included all patients who were on the MMT during a three month period in 2004. Treatment response was measured from analysis of opiate positive urine samples. Of the 440 patients, 63% were male and their mean age was 32 years (range 17 to 52 years). 163 patients (37%) had a comorbid psychiatric illness. The average methadone dose was 74 mg. On average, 71% of urine samples were opiate negative. Shorter time in treatment (less than 24 months), lower dose of methadone, cocaine abuse and intermittent benzodiazepine abuse were each found to be significantly associated with lower rates of opiate abstinence. Outcomes were not associated with gender, age and accessing counselling. Dual diagnosed patients tended to have higher rates of abstinence (p = 0.08). MMT clients who abuse cocaine and benzodiazepines are at increased risk of continuing opiate abuse. Higher doses of methadone might be necessary to prevent illicit opiate abuse.
Comparison of Health Realization and 12-Step treatment in women's residential substance abuse treatment programs.	The purpose of this study was to compare a relatively new therapeutic option for substance abuse treatment, Health Realization, and 12-Step approaches offered in women's residential programs. The study was sponsored by a large California county's Department of Alcohol and Drug Services, which had offered Health Realization treatment for a number of years. This study constitutes the first systematic evaluation of Health Realization as a substance abuse treatment program for adult women in a residential treatment setting. This was a randomized study with two observations-admission and 9 months post-admission. The results showed that clients in both Health Realization and 12-Step treatment exhibited comparable outcomes on domains such as substance use, criminal justice involvement, employment, housing, adverse effects of substance use and psychological well being. Substance use declined significantly between admission and follow-up in both treatment groups, irrespective of duration of treatment. Similarly, adverse effects of substance use declined between admission and 9-month follow-up. Health Realization and 12-Step treatment offered comparable benefits for women in residential substance abuse treatment programs.
Suboptimal response to hepatitis B vaccine in drug users.	Fifty-five drug users institutionalized in a community for drug detoxification were vaccinated against hepatitis B virus (HBV) with a recombinant yeast-derived vaccine (Engerix B, Smith Kline Biologicals, Belgium). At 0, 1, and 6 months, 20 micrograms of vaccine was given in the deltoid to these patients, of whom 17 had no serum HBV markers, 15 had only the antibody to core antigen (anti-HBc), and 23 had anti-HBc and antibody to the surface antigen (anti-HBs) values lower than the allegedly "protective" value of 10 mIU/mL. Forty-one healthy controls were vaccinated in parallel. At month 7 (ie, 1 month after the third dose of vaccine), in 76% (13/17) of drug users with no HBV markers, 6% (1/15) of those with isolated anti-HBc, and 69% (16/23) of those with anti-HBc and nonprotective anti-HBs, protective anti-HBs titers (greater than or equal to 10 mIU/mL) developed, compared with 97% (40/41) of controls. At month 24, these rates fell to 43% for drug users with no HBV marker, 0% for those with anti-HBc, 31% for those with anti-HBc and anti-HBs, and 86% for controls. The drug users who did not respond to vaccination were more likely to be those with evidence of prior HBV infection and anergy to skin tests. This indicates that unresponsiveness to hepatitis B vaccine in drug users may be due to altered immunity.
The Chinese community smoking cessation project: a community sensitive intervention trial.	This paper describes (1) the design, methods and baseline data of the first smoking cessation clinical trial for Chinese Americans with medical conditions - Chinese Community Smoking Cessation Project (CCSCP); (2) the collaborative process between researchers and the Chinese community; and (3) the barriers and facilitators of implementing the study. CCSCP was a culturally tailored, randomized, smoking cessation trial testing the efficacy of an intensive (physician advice, in-person counseling with nicotine replacement therapy, 5 telephone calls) compared to a minimal (physician advice and self-help manual) intervention. The study applied a community-sensitive research method involving community members in all phases of the research process in San Francisco Bay Area during 2001-2007. CCSCP recruited 464 smokers from health care facilities (79%) located in Chinese neighborhoods and through Chinese language media (21%). Baseline assessments and interventions were conducted in-person using translated and tested questionnaire and intervention materials. The majority of the participants were men (91%) with a mean age of 58.3 years, foreign born (98%), with less than high school education (58%), spoke no English (42%) and in non-skilled or semi-skilled occupations (60%) with <$20,000 household income (51%). Participants smoked regularly on an average 38.6 +/- 17 years, smoked 9.1 +/- 8 cigarettes per day and 85% smoked daily. Cultural tailoring of recruitment methods and intervention design led to successful enrollment and retention of participants, overcoming barriers faced by the participants. Community sensitive collaborative process facilitated implementation of study protocol in community health care settings.
A randomized clinical trial of methadone maintenance for prisoners: findings at 6 months post-release.	This study examined the effectiveness of methadone maintenance initiated prior to or just after release from prison at 6 months post-release.
The clinical course of alcoholism in Trinidad and Tobago.	The clinical course of alcoholism has been described as a series of distinct, alcohol-related life events that occur in an orderly sequence. However, whether that sequence differs, depending on ethnicity and country of origin, is less clear. The purposes of this study were to investigate the sequence and progression of alcohol-related life events in individuals of East Indian (Indo) and African (Afro) heritage on the islands of Trinidad and Tobago, and compare those results with data reported previously by the Collaborative study for the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA).
Extratest validity of selected personality assessment inventory scales and indicators in an inpatient substance abuse setting.	The purpose of this study was to extend previous findings regarding the extratest validity of the Personality Assessment Inventory (Morey, 1991, 2007) scales and indicators in forensic contexts to an inpatient substance abuse setting. The Aggression Scale, and particularly the Physical Aggression subscale, related to assault history; the Suicide Scale and Suicide Probability Index related to history of suicide attempts; Antisocial Features, and particularly the Antisocial Behaviors subscale, predicted rule infractions; and the Treatment Process Index predicted treatment completion. We discuss clinical implications in the context of extant findings.
15-Year survival and retention of patients in a general hospital-affiliated methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) center in Israel.	We have extended our previous 10-year follow-up study of MMT retention for another 5 years and added data on survival of all patients ever admitted to our MMT clinic (6/1993 to 6/2007). Data were calculated from admission to MMT until leaving, death, or study closure (6/2008). Ninety-four of a total of 613 patients (4711.6 person-years [py]) died. Cancer was the primary cause of death for those who remained in treatment, and overdose for those who left MMT. Longer survival (p=0.051) with a trend for a lower mortality rate (p=0.08) was noted among the 464 patients who stayed in treatment > or =1 year (1.8/100 py), compared with the 149 patients who left MMT <1 year (2.6/100 py). Predictors of survival in multivariate analyses were younger age (<40 years) at admission, living with a spouse/partner, being hepatitis B sera-negative, not abusing benzodiazepines on admission (interaction effect), not being referred directly from hospitalization to MMT, and not leaving the MMT program for hospitalization. The two latter variables also predicted longer retention, as did a high methadone dose (> or =100mg/d), no opiate and, no benzodiazepine abuse after 1 year and either having any DSM-IV-TR Axis I, or no Axis I&II psychiatric diagnoses. Unlike retention, mortality was associated with pre-treatment severity and comorbidities thus only partially reflects MMT outcome (opiate abstinence and treatment success). Benzodiazepine abuse reduced both retention and survival, emphasizing the high priority that should be given to stopping it.
External pressure, motivation, and treatment outcome among pregnant substance-using women.	The weight of evidence suggests that legal pressure to enter treatment facilitates retention. However, the extent to which such mandates (a) influence actual levels of substance use, or (b) also facilitate retention among pregnant women, is unclear. Associations between external pressure-defined as self-reported pressure to attend treatment under threat of incarceration, loss of child custody, and/or loss of subsidized housing--and the key outcomes of retention and substance use were therefore examined in a sample of 200 pregnant women receiving community-based substance abuse treatment. The role of external pressure was examined in a series of Cox and GEE regressions, which suggested that external pressure as measured at baseline was associated with decreased risk of dropout (Hazard Ratio=.47, p=.001) and fewer drug-positive urine tests throughout treatment and 12-week follow-up (OR=.48, p=.03). These differences did not appear to be the result of baseline differences between coerced and non-coerced participants in education, legal history, the presence or absence of a substance use disorder, employment, or motivation. The present findings extend the larger literature on external pressure by demonstrating effects on drug use as well as on retention, and among pregnant women.
Socio-spatial stigmatization and the contested space of addiction treatment: remapping strategies of opposition to the disorder of drugs.	In recent years, the Not-In-My-Back-Yard (NIMBY) phenomenon has become increasingly prevalent with regard to harm reduction sites, addiction treatment facilities and their clients. Drawing from a case study of community conflict generated by the relocation of a methadone clinic into a rapidly gentrifying neighbourhood in downtown Toronto, Canada, this article offers a unique analysis of oppositional strategies regarding the perceived (socio-spatial) 'disorder of drugs'. Based on interviews with local residents and business owners this article suggests the existence of three interrelated oppositional strategies, shifting from a recourse to urban planning policy, to a critique of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) practice, to explicit forms of socio-spatial stigmatization that posited the body of the (methadone) 'addict' as abject agent of infection and the clinic as a site of contagion. Exploring the dialectical, socio-spatial interplay between the body of the addict and the social body of the city, this article demonstrates the unique aspects of opposition to the physically, ideologically and discursively contested space of addiction treatment. Representations of the methadone clinic, its clients and the larger space of the neighbourhood, this paper suggests, served to situate addiction as a 'pathology (out) of place' and recast the city itself as a site of safe/supervised consumption.
Beliefs about the empirical support of drug abuse treatment interventions: a survey of outpatient treatment providers.	This study assessed substance abuse treatment providers' beliefs about empirically supported treatments (ESTs) to determine if providing information about empirical support for interventions would change beliefs. Treatment providers (N=136) completed an interview regarding five interventions with varied empirical support: contingency management (CM), motivational interviewing (MI), relapse prevention (RP), 12-step approaches (TSA), and verbal confrontation (VC). Participants then read primers describing empirical support for each intervention prior to completing a repeat interview. Overall, providers reported positive beliefs about ESTs. Baseline beliefs about empirical support for each intervention were inflated relative to that of expert raters except for CM. After reading the primers, beliefs about efficacy changed in the direction of the experts for all interventions except MI, but continued to be inflated except for CM. Willingness to utilize interventions increased for RP, MI, and CM and decreased for TSA and VC, but remained higher than warranted by empirical support.
Opioid dependence treatment and guidelines.	In response to the growing incidence of opioid dependence, guidelines have been created, and new treatments are being developed to assist physicians in treating dependence and withdrawal of opioids.
Sex under the influence of drugs or alcohol: common for men in substance abuse treatment and associated with high-risk sexual behavior.	Sex under the influence of drugs or alcohol is associated with high-risk sexual behavior. Heterosexual men (n = 505) in substance abuse treatment completed a computer-administered interview assessing sexual risk behaviors. Most men (73.3%) endorsed sex under the influence in the prior 90 days, and 39.1% endorsed sex under the influence during their most recent sexual event. Sex under the influence at the most recent event was more likely to involve anal intercourse, sex with a casual partner, and less condom use. Patients might benefit from interventions targeting sexual behavior and substance use as mutual triggers. (Am J Addict 2010;00:1-9).
Preliminary outcomes of a model program for increasing treatment access for African American women who use crack cocaine and are at risk for contracting HIV.	In the United States, the threat of HIV/AIDS to African American women's health has become the focus of much concern. This paper describes a federally funded community-based program that provides services to African American women at risk for HIV/AIDS in Nashville, Tennessee. The program provides a culturally relevant set of interventions specific to crack cocaine users aimed at reducing substance use and HIV/AIDS risk behaviors. The model is important for the continued development of culturally relevant interventions aimed at reducing the disproportionate rates of HIV/AIDS within the African American community by ensuring treatment access to all populations.
The reliability and validity of the French version of the Cocaine Craving Questionnaire-Brief.	Cocaine has become a noticeable part of the European drug scene and is the second most commonly used illicit drug among the general population. Craving is a core issue in cocaine dependence and is strongly associated with lapse and/or relapse. However, no craving scale exists in French. The objective of our study was to assess the reliability and validity of a French language version of the 10-item Cocaine Craving Questionnaire-Brief (CCQ-Brief).
Predictors and outcome of aftercare participation of alcohol and drug users completing residential treatment.	This study attempts to identify factors associated with greater aftercare participation for 367 adults who completed abstinence-based residential addiction treatment between 2004 and 2007 at Bellwood Health Services in Toronto, Canada. Pre-treatment substance use, number of days spent in residential treatment, motivation, treatment satisfaction, and demographics were used to determine which characteristics predicted greater aftercare participation. The duration of residential treatment and treatment satisfaction emerged as significant predictors of aftercare attendance. Regular aftercare attendance was associated with lower levels of substance use at 6-month follow-up. Results suggest that a longer duration of residential treatment can influence continuing care engagement and highlight the importance of initial treatment retention for long-term recovery.
Abstinence-orientated residential rehabilitation of opioid users in Denmark: do changes in national treatment policies affect treatment outcome?	Significant changes in the Danish drug-abuse treatment system occurred from 1998 to 2008, allowing the opportunity to study their impact on outcomes for opiate dependent patients. This paper examines whether such changes are related to possible changes in abstinence rates of two cohorts of drug users.
Comparison of self-reported benzodiazepine use and urinalysis among consecutive treatment seekers at a tertiary care drug dependence treatment centre.	Information provided by drug dependent patients might be incomplete and/or discrepant. Benzodiazepines are frequently abused, but not necessarily reported, even bythe treatment seeking population. The study aims to compare the self reported benzodiazepine use with a quick and effective urinalysis method. A total of 51 consecutive adult patients were included after an informed consent during their first visit to a tertiary care drug dependence treatment centre. The socio-demographic and clinical details were recorded on a semi-structured proforma. Patients were specifically asked for ever, current and recent benzodiazepine use and thereafter ten ml urine sample was collected to perform urinalysis with cassette test for benzodiazepines. The sample, predominantly males, had a mean age of 37.86 +/-10.46 years. The common primary drugs of use were heroin (52.9%), alcohol (23.5%) and other opioids (21.6%). Drug use was uninterrupted in most of users (72.5%) and ranged from one to forty years. The recent benzodiazepine use was reported by 21.6% of all users whereas urinalysis by cassette test was positive in 50.9% of the treatment seekers. Denial among users was 69.2% and denial among negative self report was 45%. A poor level of agreement (K) was found between results of self-report and urinalysis for all the treatment seekers. Self report of benzodiazepine use is highly questionable among treatment seekers. The urinalysis with cassette test is a quick objective method which is recommended for routine screening.
Transporting clinical research to community settings: designing and conducting a multisite trial of brief strategic family therapy.	This paper describes the development and implementation of a trial of Brief Strategic Family Therapy (BSFT), an evidence-based drug intervention for adolescents, in eight community substance abuse treatment programs. Researchers and treatment programs collaborated closely to identify and overcome challenges, many of them related to achieving results that were both scientifically rigorous and applicable to the widest possible variety of adolescent substance abuse treatment programs. To meet these challenges, the collaborative team drew on lessons and practices from efficacy, effectiveness, and implementation research.
The recovery model and complex health needs: what health psychology can learn from mental health and substance misuse service provision.	This article reviews key arguments around evidence-based practice and outlines the methodological demands for effective adoption of recovery model principles. The recovery model is outlined and demonstrated as compatible with current needs in substance misuse service provision. However, the concepts of evidence-based practice and the recovery model are currently incompatible unless the current value system of evidence-based practice changes to accommodate the methodologies demanded by the recovery model. It is suggested that critical health psychology has an important role to play in widening the scope of evidence-based practice to better accommodate complex social health needs.
Predicting inpatient aggression using the InterRAI risk of harm to others clinical assessment protocol: a tool for risk assessment and care planning.	This study examined the ability of a risk assessment algorithm, the Risk of Harm to Others Clinical Assessment Protocol (RHO CAP) to predict inpatient aggression within a mental health and addictions treatment facility in Ontario, Canada. Anonymized patient records were retrospectively reviewed from April 1, 2004 to July 31, 2009 (N=6,425). Survival analysis using Cox's regression was used to predict time to inpatient aggression using the RHO CAP. Approximately 10% of inpatients were at moderate risk of harm to others, and 2% were considered high risk. The pattern of survival curves revealed that within the first month of admission, approximately 10% of inpatients at high risk of harm to others displayed physical aggression. Patients at high risk were also two times more likely to display physical aggression. Clinical teams can use the RHO CAP to implement preventive safety measures, reduce the incidence of inpatient aggression and improve quality of care.
Acceptability of mental health screening in routine addictions treatment.	The objective was to investigate patients' views on the application of case finding and screening methods for common mental disorders in an addiction treatment service.
Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) for alcoholism: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	Assessments of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in the treatment of alcoholism have not been based on quantitative meta-analysis. Hence, we performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials in order to evaluate the clinical efficacy of LSD in the treatment of alcoholism. Two reviewers independently extracted the data, pooling the effects using odds ratios (ORs) by a generic inverse variance, random effects model. We identified six eligible trials, including 536 participants. There was evidence for a beneficial effect of LSD on alcohol misuse (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.36-2.84; p = 0.0003). Between-trial heterogeneity for the treatment effects was negligible (I = 0%). Secondary outcomes, risk of bias and limitations are discussed. A single dose of LSD, in the context of various alcoholism treatment programs, is associated with a decrease in alcohol misuse.
Validation of the Cannabis Abuse Screening Test in a sample of cannabis inpatients.	The present study aims at validating the Cannabis Abuse Screening Test (CAST) in a clinical sample of adolescent and young adult cannabis users seeking treatment. Applying a classical test theory approach using DSM-IV diagnoses as gold standard, two versions of the CAST questionnaire are compared. The sample consisted of 140 subjects aged 15-26 years (mean 18.9) recruited from two cannabis treatment centers. Gold standard diagnoses were assessed using the Adolescent Diagnostic Interview-Light. Internal structure and consistency of the CAST were assessed by principal component analysis and Cronbach's . Optimal thresholds were defined using receiver operating characteristic analysis. Both the binary and the full test version revealed unidimensional structures with moderate to satisfactory internal consistency ( = 0.66 and 0.73). Screening properties were unsatisfactory when the CAST was compared against cannabis dependence. With regard to cannabis use disorders, both test versions yielded comparable and good sensitivity and specificity at cut-off 3 (binary: 92.2%, 66.7%) and 6 (full: 93.0%, 66.7%). Overall, the full CAST may be used for screening cannabis use disorders in clinical settings. Further research may use validation methods that do without gold standard.
Therapy or threat? Inadvertent exposure to alcohol and illicit drug cues in the neighbourhoods of sober living homes.	Alcohol retail outlets and other environmental cues can contribute to relapse among individuals recovering from substance abuse. Sober living homes are residences designed to strengthen abstinence from substances, in part by helping residents develop skills for coping with cues and other stressors. Between January 2009 and March 2010, we conducted 10 focus groups with 68 adults aged 18 and over who lived in or operated any of 35 sober living homes in Los Angeles County, California. A stratified purposive sampling strategy was used to recruit sober living home residents and operators. The study aim was to assess how residents responded to the neighbourhood alcohol and drug cues they encountered in their daily lives. The focus group transcripts were analysed using the constructs of 'approach coping' and 'avoidance coping'. Findings suggest that the sober living homes helped residents cope with cue exposure through social rules and processes such as chaperones and evening curfews, as well as the presence of peer support for managing the conflictive thoughts and emotions that result from cue exposure. The examples of 'avoidance coping' and 'approach coping' identified in the transcripts were more often behavioural than cognitive. For example, residents described efforts they made to increase their physical distance from (i.e. avoid) neighbours who used substances. Whereas some participants believed that living in areas with high levels of drug use and trafficking was 'a time bomb' for relapse, others suggested that cue exposure could actually strengthen their ability to remain abstinent ('approach coping'). The approach/avoidance coping construct did not account for the experiences of all residents. Several participants expressed indifference towards cues while performing daily routines and pursuing important recovery goals. The threat of alcohol and drug cues may be mitigated by recovery-oriented homes that support coping on an individualised, as-needed basis. 
Changes in personal networks of women in residential and outpatient substance abuse treatment.	Changes in personal network composition, support and structure over 12 months were examined in 377 women from residential (n=119) and intensive outpatient substance abuse treatment (n=258) through face-to-face interviews utilizing computer based data collection. Personal networks of women who entered residential treatment had more substance users, more people with whom they had used alcohol and/or drugs, and fewer people from treatment programs or self- help groups than personal networks of women who entered intensive outpatient treatment. By 12 months post treatment intake, network composition improved for women in residential treatment; however, concrete support was still lower and substance users are still more prevalent in their networks. Network composition of women in outpatient treatment remained largely the same over time. Both groups increased cohesiveness within the network over 12 months. Targeting interventions that support positive changes in personal networks may heighten positive long term outcomes for women entering treatment.
Measuring fidelity to a culturally adapted HIV prevention intervention for men in substance abuse treatment.	A fidelity measure was developed for use with Real Men Are Safe-Culturally Adapted (REMAS-CA), an HIV prevention intervention for ethnically diverse men in substance abuse treatment. The aims of this analysis were to: 1) assess the reliability of the Fidelity Rating and Skill Evaluation (FRASE); 2) measure improvement in therapist competence and adherence over time while delivering REMAS-CA; and 3) identify which modules of REMAS-CA were most difficult to deliver. Results showed that, 1) the FRASE was a reliable instrument; 2) therapists achieved adequate adherence and competence after training and demonstrated significant improvement over time in Global Empathy; and 3) Sessions 4 and 5 of REMAS-CA contained the most challenging modules for therapists to deliver. Recommendations for future REMAS-CA therapist trainings and fidelity monitoring are made. 
Using chi-Squared Automatic Interaction Detection (CHAID) modelling to identify groups of methadone treatment clients experiencing significantly poorer treatment outcomes.	In times of scarce resources it is important for services to make evidence based decisions when identifying clients with poor outcomes. chi-Squared Automatic Interaction Detection (CHAID) modelling was used to identify characteristics of clients experiencing statistically significant poor outcomes. A national, longitudinal study recruited and interviewed, using the Maudsley Addiction Profile (MAP), 215 clients starting methadone treatment and 78% were interviewed one year later. Four CHAID analyses were conducted to model the interactions between the primary outcome variable, used heroin in the last 90 days prior to one year interview and variables on drug use, treatment history, social functioning and demographics. Results revealed that regardless of these other variables, males over 22 years of age consistently demonstrated significantly poorer outcomes than all other clients. CHAID models can be easily applied by service providers to provide ongoing evidence on clients exhibiting poor outcomes and requiring priority within services.
A latent class analysis of external barriers to drug treatment in China.	Drug treatment services of varying types have been scaled up in China over the past decade. Yet, barriers to treatment remain among the population of drug users in China. In this paper, we use a person-centered approach to examine external barriers to drug treatment among a sample of Chinese drug users. Specifically, we used a latent class analysis to determine a typology of external barriers to treatment among a sample of 262 drug users. The results of the analyses suggest three-classes of drug users with respect to their perceptions of external barriers to treatment--Major Barriers, Low Barriers, and Systems-level Barriers--indicating that drug users are a heterogeneous population on this matter. Age and types of drugs used were predictors of class membership. In this regard, different tactics must be utilized in order to successfully reach this wide ranging group of individuals.
A comprehensive response to the opioid epidemic: Hazelden's approach.	For years, treatment professionals have debated the virtues of medication maintenance versus psychosocial therapies for treating opioid addiction. In its response to the opioid crisis, Hazelden is attempting to bridge the difference by using a treatment protocol that involves both the conservative use of safe medications and psychosocial therapies while maintaining the ultimate goal of abstinence. This article discusses the recent and precipitous rise in opioid use, abuse, dependence and overdoses in the United States; the physician's role in creating and solving the problem; and Hazelden's unique approach to caring for people with opioid addiction.
Client and staff experiences of a co-located service for hepatitis C care in opioid substitution treatment settings in New South Wales, Australia.	Internationally, there are ongoing efforts to increase access to hepatitis C (HCV) assessment and treatment to counter a generally low uptake of treatment among people with a history of injecting drug use. The aim of this qualitative study was to examine client and staff attitudes towards and experience of co-location of HCV and opioid substitution treatment (OST) services.
The importance of age composition of 12-step meetings as a moderating factor in the relation between young adults' 12-step participation and abstinence.	Participation in 12-step mutual help organizations (MHO) is a common continuing care recommendation for adults; however, little is known about the effects of MHO participation among young adults (i.e., ages 18-25 years) for whom the typically older age composition at meetings may serve as a barrier to engagement and benefits. This study examined whether the age composition of 12-step meetings moderated the recovery benefits derived from attending MHOs.
At a crossroads: reentry challenges and healthcare needs among homeless female ex-offenders.	The exponential increase in the number of women parolees and probationers in the last decade has made women the most rapidly growing group of offenders in the United States. The purpose of this descriptive, qualitative study is to understand the unique gendered experiences of homeless female ex-offenders, in the context of healthcare needs, types of health services sought, and gaps in order to help them achieve a smooth transition post prison release. Focus group qualitative methodology was utilized to engage 14 female ex-offenders enrolled in a residential drug treatment program in Southern California. The findings suggested that for homeless female ex-offenders, there are a myriad of healthcare challenges, knowledge deficits, and barriers to moving forward in life, which necessitates strategies to prevent relapse. These findings support the development of gender-sensitive programs for preventing or reducing drug and alcohol use, recidivism, and sexually transmitted infections among this hard-to-reach population. 
Early maladaptive schemas of substance abusers and their intimate partners.	The influence of intimate partners in the recovery of substance abuse has been increasingly recognized in the professional literature. Couples-based substance abuse treatment has demonstrated effectiveness in reducing substance abuse and increasing healthy couple functioning. Recently, research has begun to investigate enduring cognitive beliefs that may impact substance abusers and their intimate partners, which could advance our understanding of factors that may impact couple's functioning. The current study examined the early maladaptive schemas and substance use of a sample of adult substance abusers who have sought residential substance abuse treatment and their intimate partners (N = 102). Results demonstrated that the early maladaptive schemas of patients and their intimate partners may be interrelated and that patients scored significantly higher than their partners on 13 of the 18 early maladaptive schemas. Substance use was only associated with a few early maladaptive schemas. These findings highlight the potential importance of assessing early maladaptive schemas in couples where one partner has a substance abuse problem. Implications of these findings for future research are discussed.
Distress intolerance in substance dependent patients.	This study seeks to extend the literature by examining distress tolerance (DT) levels for a substance dependent group of individuals. Next, it considers the potential relationship of DT levels with substance dependence features and finally, it compares those factors with a healthy control group. This study included 93 individuals (49 substance dependent and 44 healthy controls). Participants were evaluated using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Diagnosis (SCID-I) and given the Distress Tolerance Scale (DTS), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and State & Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Consistent with our expectations, the substance dependent group showed higher scores on the BDI and STAI, and lower scores on the DTS. There was no difference between the single drug dependent group and multiple substance-dependent groups, and their DT levels were not correlated with the duration of substance use, nor with the age of first substance use. Instead, DT was strongly correlated with trait anxiety, state anxiety, and depressive symptoms. The DT levels of this group of substance dependent individuals were very low in comparison to controls and to other groups reported in the literature. Our results suggest that distress tolerance may represent a therapeutic target factor in substance dependency treatment. Limitations and future research directions are also discussed. 
Factors affecting the stability of social networks during early recovery in ex-offenders.	Few studies have considered the retention of the individuals (alters) comprising the social networks of people in recovery.
Alexithymia in patients with substance use disorders: state or trait?	Previous research on substance use disorders (SUD) has yielded conflicting results concerning whether alexithymia is a state or trait, raising the question of how alexithymia should be addressed in the treatment of SUD-patients. The absolute and relative stabilities of alexithymia were assessed using the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) and its subscales. In total, 101 patients with SUD were assessed twice during a 3-week inpatient detoxification period while controlling for withdrawal symptoms and personality disorder traits. The relative stability of the total TAS-20 and subscales was moderate to high but showed remarkable differences between baseline low, moderate, and high alexithymic patients. A small reduction in the mean levels of the total TAS-20 scores and those of one subscale revealed the absence of absolute stability. The levels of alexithymia were unrelated to changes in withdrawal symptoms, including anxiety- and depression-like symptoms. The differences between low, moderate, and high alexithymic patients in terms of the change in alexithymia scores between baseline and follow-up indicated a strong regression to the mean. The findings suggest that alexithymia in SUD patients as measured using the TAS-20 is both a state and trait phenomenon and does not appear to be related to changes in anxiety- and depression-like symptoms. 
'Safer environment interventions': a qualitative synthesis of the experiences and perceptions of people who inject drugs.	There is growing acknowledgment that social, structural, and environmental forces produce vulnerability to health harms among people who inject drugs (PWID), and safer environment interventions (SEI) have been identified as critical to mitigating the impacts of these contextual forces on drug-related harm. To date, however, SEIs have been under-theorized in the literature, and how they minimize drug-related risks across intervention types and settings has not been adequately examined. This article presents findings from a systematic review and meta-synthesis of qualitative studies reporting PWID's experiences with three types of SEIs (syringe exchange programmes, supervised injection facilities and peer-based harm reduction interventions) published between 1997 and 2012. This meta-synthesis sought to develop a comprehensive understanding of SEIs informed by the experiences of PWID. Twenty-nine papers representing twenty-one unique studies that included an aggregate of more than 800 PWID were included in this meta-synthesis. This meta-synthesis found that SEIs fostered social and physical environments that mitigated drug-related harms and increased access to social and material resources. Specifically, SEIs: (1) provided refuge from street-based drug scenes; (2) enabled safer injecting by reshaping the social and environmental contexts of injection drug use; (3) mediated access to resources and health care services; and, (4) were constrained by drug prohibition and law enforcement activities. These findings indicate that it is critical to situate SEIs in relation to the lived experiences of PWID, and in particular provide broader environmental support to PWID. Given that existing drug laws limit the effectiveness of interventions, drug policy reforms are needed to enable public health, and specifically SEIs, to occupy a more prominent role in the response to injection drug use. 
Screening and assessment tools for measuring adolescent client needs and functioning in substance abuse treatment.	The purpose of this study is to establish the psychometric properties of a noncommercial, publicly available, modular screening and assessment system for adolescents in substance abuse treatment. Data were collected in 2011-2012 from 1,189 adolescents admitted to eight residential treatment programs in urban and rural locations in the United States. Results from three sets of analyses documented the instruments to be reliable. Females reported more problems than males, and younger adolescents reported more problems than older youth. Implications and limitations are discussed, and suggestions for future research are provided.
The association between psychopathology and substance use: adolescent and young adult substance users in inpatient treatment in Cape Town, South Africa.	Evidence suggests that comorbid psychopathology can negatively affect treatment outcomes in substance users. In South Africa, limited information exists regarding the prevalence, nature and role of psychiatric comorbidity in substance users. This study examined psychiatric comorbidity and its association with specific substance use, and young adult substance users in treatment for substance use.
Validation of the Spanish version of the Alcohol, Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening Test (ASSIST).	To evaluate the psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the Alcohol, Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening Test (ASSIST) and its effectiveness as a screening tool for problematic alcohol, tobacco and other psychoactive substance use in groups of low, moderate, and high risk users.
Stigma predicts residential treatment length for substance use disorder.	Stigma has been suggested as a possible contributor to the high rates of treatment attrition in substance-dependent individuals, but no published empirical studies have examined this association.
Clinical aspects and care production in a Brazilian psychosocial care center of alcohol and other drugs (CAPS AD).	The study aimed to analyze the clinical aspects of the treatment of crack cocaine and excessive alcohol users who were seen in a Psychosocial Care Center of Alcohol and Other Drugs (CAPS AD) in Sobral, Cear, during the years 2010 and 2011. This is an exploratory descriptive and documentary study, with a retrospective quantitative approach. The sample was composed of 567 medical records of drug users, from which 291 were crack cocaine users, and 276 were alcohol users. For data collection, a form was developed based on the Care Script Service, the data from which was then used to populate a database in an EPI INFO 7, a statistics software system. In both groups of users, males were predominant (85%, n = 482), and were between the ages of 20 and 29 years for crack users (50.9%, n = 148), and between 30 and 39 years for alcohol users (31.9%, n = 88). There were significant differences between crack cocaine users and alcohol users in liver disorders (p < 0.01) and withdrawal syndrome (p < 0.05), however, there were similar signs and symptoms between users. Crack users hospitalized less frequently (OR 0.33 [95% CI 0.23 to 0.47 p < 0.01]). Suicidal ideation and suicide attempts were similar in both crack cocaine and alcohol users. Thus, this research will lead to new proposals for health care professionals in order to enhance and improve the care provided to service customers in CAPS AD.
Fatal cases of poisonings among drug addicts in the county of Funen in 1993]	This study includes death from poisoning among drug addicts in 1993 in the county of Funen, in all 24. The development during the last five years shows an increase, especially in the largest city in the county. The drug addicts have several problems, and several of them were well-known in the social welfare system or by the police. Half of the drug addicts had received treatment for their abuse and three persons were receiving treatment at the time of their death. A few--primarily among the youngest--had only used drugs for a short time while one third had abused drugs for several years. The greater part of the deaths were caused by heroin, which is found in different concentrations in the illegal market. Five of the dead persons had just been released from prison and three people had just left 24-hour care centres when they were found dead. Co-operation between the various, treating authorities has to be given a high priority.
A comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation program for drug addicts at the Dnepropetrovsk Province Drug Abuse Clinic]	On the basis of the experience gained in the treatment of patients who are drug addicts a complex treatment-and-rehabilitation programme has been developed and adopted. It is a psychotherapeutically--oriented programme that includes the following steps: selection of patients, promotion of health of the family, staging, participation of social workers--former patients. The end objective is to achieve a lasting remission in addicted patients, promotion of health of their relatives and normalization of family relations. Such an approach to solving the problem differs from nonmedicamentous methods widely employed now in the Ukraine and UIS republics, which have not been associated with demonstrable effects in treatment and, more important, rehabilitation of addicted persons.
Craving in hospitalized cocaine abusers as a predictor of outcome.	Despite its common use, the term "craving" is controversial. Moreover, its measurement can be problematic, since craving is purely subjective and is highly influenced by setting and drug availability. Thus, one might expect patients in protective settings such as hospitals to experience little craving, despite potentially being at high risk to relapse upon discharge. In this study of 73 patients hospitalized for cocaine dependence, we developed a series of five questions to measure different aspects of cocaine craving: 1) current intensity, 2) intensity during the previous 24 hours, 3) frequency, 4) responsiveness to drug-related conditioned stimuli, and 5) imagined likelihood of use if in a setting with access to drugs. We hypothesized that some hospitalized patients with low craving levels might believe their risk of relapse to be high in another setting. We then examined the relationship between inpatient craving levels and 3-month treatment outcome. Results revealed a high level of internal consistency, with Cronbach's alpha scores of .82 to .94 on daily measures; factor analysis revealed unidimensionality; and each of the five items showed significant decreases in craving over time. The question regarding likelihood of use in another setting consistently scored higher than other questions on current craving (p < .001). Predictive validity was assessed by examining 3-month outcome. Among the 37 patients who participated in a follow-up study, there were no statistically significant relationships between 3-month cocaine use outcome and any item on the craving scale. Neither inpatient craving levels nor predictions regarding future use correlated with actual 3-month outcome.
Effects of psychiatric care for dual diagnosis patients treated in a drug dependence clinic.	This study examines outcome of treatment for psychoactive substance dependence in a clinic which made psychiatric care readily available. Veterans entering outpatient treatment for substance dependence (n = 222) received psychiatric evaluation for additional Axis I disorders using DSM-III-R criteria. Patients provided urine toxicology specimens at least weekly. Outcome (urinalysis results and treatment retention) was compared for patients with dual diagnosis (n = 103, 46.4%) and with substance only diagnosis (n = 119, 53.6%). Psychotropic medications were prescribed for 80.4% of the dual diagnosis subjects. In the first 6 months of treatment, dual diagnosis subjects compared to substance only diagnosis subjects gave a significantly greater percentage of urines positive for cocaine and opioids. In the second 6 months, dual diagnosis subjects who remained (n = 72, 70.0%) significantly reduced from the first 6 months their percentage of cocaine and opioid positives and did not differ in percent positives from substance only diagnosis subjects who continued past 6 months (n = 70, 58.8%). Treatment retention of dual diagnosis subjects (median months = 14.3) exceeded that of substance only diagnosis subjects (8.9; Lee-Desu Statistic = 9.02, p < .003). Dual diagnosis patients may initially perform more poorly than substance only diagnosis patients in substance dependence treatment. However, in the presence of psychiatric care, they eventually exhibit comparable success.
Dimensions of self-concept: a comparison of heroin and cocaine addicts.	Two groups of drug users on an inner-city inpatient drug detoxification unit were studied: 42 heroin addicts and 47 cocaine addicts. The two groups were compared on personality disorder diagnoses, personality traits, and demographic variables. Cocaine and heroin addicts scored similarly on: 1) number and kind of personality disorder diagnoses, with the exception of antisocial personality; 2) all personality traits measured; 3) positive and negative temperament; 4) description of self-concepts; and 5) positivity and negativity of self-concepts. It was also found that heroin addicts showed significantly higher levels of social deviance than the cocaine group, with significantly more antisocial personality disorder diagnoses, higher levels of social deviance, and lower scores on a Propriety Scale. Character pathology was more heterogeneous among cocaine users. Heroin addicts had used significantly longer and showed less educational and occupational achievement than the cocaine group. Our results also suggest that personality psychopathology in drug addicts is associated with lower self-esteem, more negative self-valuation, and longer duration of use.
The cognitive structure underlying heroin-injecting behaviour.	An important objective in the field of drug education is the development of successful intervention programs to deter or reduce use. A vital step in this procedure is the identification of the critical elements that will induce and maintain behavior change. The purpose of this article is to demonstrate how the Theory of Reasoned Action can be used to identify these factors. Data were gathered from a sample of current heroin injectors and the cognitive structure underlying drug use investigated. The findings are discussed with regard to intervention programs aimed at modifying or reducing drug injecting behavior.
Fitting a two-parameter logistic item response model to clarify the psychometric properties of the Drug Use Screening Inventory for adolescent alcohol and drug abusers.	The suitability of fitting a two-parameter logistic item response model to the Drug Use Screening Inventory (DUSI) was assessed. In a sample of 846 adolescents, each of the 10 domains was found to be unidimensional. Invariance of the item parameters across different groups was also observed. The reliability coefficient, based on item response theory, was found to be superior. The results of these analyses indicate that the DUSI has sound psychometric properties.
The impact of the addition of an acupuncture treatment program to an existing metro-Dade County outpatient substance abuse treatment facility.	There are several varieties of treatment facilities and modalities for dealing with substance abuse. In this study, the addition of acupuncture treatments to the usual care program at an existing county-based substance abuse treatment clinic was tested. Men and women who voluntarily attended the clinic or who were remanded by the court to attend were randomized to receive usual care, usual care plus frequent urine testing, or usual care plus frequent urine testing and acupuncture treatments. Clients who received acupuncture treatments in addition to the usual care and frequent urine testing became clean (as measured by negative urine tests) in 57% of the time required for the frequent urine testing group. Difficulties experienced included low counselor compliance with the protocol and a high drop-out rate, indicating that further research is necessary; however, this study demonstrates that acupuncture can be a feasible and effective addition to existing drug treatment programs.
Alcohol dependence and simultaneous cocaine and alcohol use in cocaine-dependent patients.	Alcohol use and associated factors were studied in 124 consecutive cocaine-dependent admissions to an outpatient substance abuse clinic. Two analyses were conducted: First, those who did and did not meet criteria for current alcohol dependence were compared on sociodemographic and drug use characteristics. Second, patients who reported simultaneous cocaine and alcohol use on > 50% vs. < or = 50% of the occasions that they used cocaine were compared using the same dependent measures. Fifty-seven percent of patients met criteria for current alcohol dependence. Those with and without alcohol dependence did not differ on any sociodemographic characteristics, but those with dependence scored higher on the alcohol and family subscales of the Addiction Severity Index, the Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test, and measures of alcohol use, and were more likely to use cocaine and alcohol simultaneously, to use cocaine with friends and in social settings, and were more likely to report financial difficulties and unwanted sexual relations as adverse consequences of their cocaine use. Sixty-four percent of patients reported > 50% simultaneous cocaine and alcohol use. The two groups did not differ on any sociodemographic characteristics, but those reporting greater simultaneous use were more likely to be alcoholic, scored higher on most measures of alcohol use, and were more likely to report using cocaine with friends and in social settings. The only other differences observed between the two groups were fewer reports of seizures or difficulty concentrating in the group reporting greater simultaneous use. The present results confirm prior reports on the widespread prevalence of alcohol dependence among cocaine-dependent patients and extend them by providing new information on the prevalence and other characteristics of simultaneous cocaine and alcohol use.
Trauma and trauma-related disorders for women on methadone: prevalence and treatment considerations.	There is a growing recognition of the strong association between psychoactive substance abuse and violence. Repeated exposure to violent trauma is particularly salient for women. Moreover, violent trauma may play a role in the etiologies of depression, substance abuse, and trauma-related disorders, such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). For the female methadone patient, an untreated trauma-related disorder can be a hidden factor that hinders treatment response and leads to treatment complications, such as depression, polysubstance abuse, or treatment drop out. This article reviews the prevalence of trauma and violence for women on methadone, comparing low-income, inner-city female drug abusers with males in methadone treatment on childhood and adulthood exposure to violent trauma and PTSD. Because women are in a minority in methadone maintenance treatment programs, standard treatment approaches have generally not focused on their particular issues and needs. Two alternative models are presented for group treatment of trauma and trauma-related disorders in female methadone patients; potential benefits of each in reducing symptomatology and improving interpersonal functioning are examined. Modification of standard approaches and the typical barriers to engagement in treatment for this special population are also addressed.
Tuberculin reactions among attendees at a methadone clinic: relation to infection with the human immunodeficiency virus.	We tested 403 clients at an inner-city methadone clinic to determine the rate of positive tuberculin test reactions and to determine how this rate was influenced by race, gender, and infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In addition to skin testing, an experimental urine test for antibody to HIV was offered; 73% of the clients provided urine specimens. Positive urine test results were confirmed by serum antibody testing. Of the subjects who returned for follow-up, 33.9% had indurations > or = 10 mm; 49.7% of these subjects were Black, 30% were Hispanic, and 18% were White. Antibodies to HIV were present in 12.5% of urine specimens. Tuberculin reactions of > or = 5 mm were observed for 32.7% of HIV-positive subjects and 48.4% of HIV-negative subjects. Screening of urine for antibodies to HIV proved to be simple, specific, and well accepted by the subjects. Providing prophylaxis for tuberculosis should be a high priority in populations with rates of tuberculin reactions and HIV infection that are comparable to those for clients of our methadone clinic.
Diagnostic concordance of substance use disorders in DSM-III, DSM-IV and ICD-10.	Diagnostic concordance of DSM-III, DSM-IV and ICD-10 was tested in a heterogeneous unrestricted sample of 370 clinical cases drawn from a regional consortium. Agreement for abuse/harmful use, dependence, and the collapsed category of 'any diagnosis' was studied across eight drug classes. A probabilistic approach to the cross-classifications based on configural frequency analysis was applied, permitting the computation of four indices of agreement. In contrast to earlier studies, ICD-10 appeared to be the most inclusive system, and often diagnosed cases that were undiagnosed by both DSMs. Generally satisfactory coherence between the ICD-10 harmful use category and the DSM category of abuse was found, but this agreement was often due to a preponderance of negative or undiagnosed cases; disagreement was common on which cases in particular warrant a mild diagnosis. In general, the greatest diagnostic concordance was observed for sedative/hypnotics, opiates and alcohol, the poorest for amphetamines, cocaine and PCP. The analytic approach produced an array of cross-system relationships that are more complex and conditional than those previously reported, and scientists and clinicians are cautioned to study particular drugs, diagnostic levels and measures of concordance before applying cross-system results to their own data or design needs.
Sociocultural and psychological factors in American Indian drug use: implications for treatment.	Use of alcohol and other drugs has been acknowledged as a serious problem among American Indian populations. This study was designed to 1) compare female and male American Indian substance users in residential treatment on psychological (self-esteem, depression, attributional style) and sociocultural (demographics, personal drug use history, family history, acculturation) variables, and 2) examine relationships of the psychological and sociocultural variables with program completion. Results showed that females experienced more family dysfunction (family members misuse of substances, and emotional, physical, and sexual abuse) than males. Both females and males showed positive change on the psychological measures from treatment entry to treatment completion. The factors predicting dropout before program completion were divorce, use of cocaine and depressants, and living in foster care as a child. Implications for prevention, intervention, and training of treatment service providers are discussed.
Follow-up study of young attenders at an alcohol unit.	A follow-up study of all under 21 year olds satisfying DSM-III-R criteria for alcohol dependence treated as in-patients at an alcohol treatment unit over a 10-year period was conducted. A total of 52 individuals were identified and of these 80% (44) were traced. The mean period of follow-up was just over 4 years. A poor outcome (no abstinence or controlled drinking for the past 6 months) was adjudged in 61.4% (27) of the cases. This was associated with indicators of early personality difficulties and unsatisfactory schooling experiences. There was considerable concurrent illicit drug use associated with continuing problem drinking. Both good and poor outcome groups initially had striking forensic histories and significant differences developed over the follow-up period with the poor outcome group continuing to have marked legal problems. In addition the poor outcome group continued to make heavy demands on the medical services over the period. One person died from an alcohol related cause. Greater attention to the specific needs of this group is required and specialized treatment units for young problem drinkers is suggested.
Purpose in life and outcome of treatment for alcohol dependence.	A number of studies have linked the development of substance abuse problems to a lack of purpose or meaning in life, and a few studies have demonstrated an increase in sense of life purpose through substance abuse treatment programmes. The present study extended past research by examining the relationship of purpose in life to treatment outcome assessed three months after completion of treatment. The subject sample comprised 131 people in in-patient treatment programmes or awaiting treatment for alcoholism (in some cases in addition to other drug addictions). Consistent with previous research, the mean Purpose in Life Test (PIL) score before treatment was significantly below the normal range and the mean PIL score at the end of in-patient treatment was within the normal range. Furthermore, the PIL score at the end of treatment was predictive of changes in intimate relationships and health at follow-up. It was also predictive of follow-up drinking/drug use status. However, the pattern of prediction differed in the two treatment groups. Post-treatment PIL score was a positive predictor of improvement in a skill-based treatment centre, and a negative predictor in a more authoritarian, confrontation-based programme. The distinction between internally and externally derived senses of meaning is presented as one possible explanation of these findings.
Fitting the treatment to the problem: deciding where to refer substance abusers.	The average physician sees a broad spectrum of substance-abusing patients whose illness levels may range from mild to severe. Considering the number and nature of substance abuse treatment options available, choosing the most appropriate treatment for any given patient may be confusing. This article provides workable guidelines for physicians based on a patient placement manual developed by the American Society of Addiction Medicine.
Where to refer patients who abuse alcohol or other drugs.	Maryland has a rich diversity of substance abuse treatment programs. This article introduces some of the resources available to help physicians prescribe a workable treatment plan for their substance-abusing patients.
Medical evaluation of African American women entering drug treatment.	This study examined the records of 252 admissions to an inpatient drug rehabilitation program for African American women between July 1989 and July 1991 to determine the prevalence and treatability of the medical conditions found on screening evaluation. All but 0.7% of subjects were on General Relief, Medicare, Medicaid, or had no payment source. The results showed a high prevalence of problems related to life style such as sexually transmitted diseases, anemia, and dental disease. Significant medical illness such as heart disease, abdominal surgical conditions, and breast masses were also found along with a high level of somatic discomfort of a subacute nature. Only 58% of patients referred to specialists kept the initial appointment. These results suggest that medical evaluation of impoverished African American women seeking rehabilitation for addiction may reveal many other health problems but that non-compliance severely limits the effectiveness of treatment. The role of the medical screening evaluation in determining fitness to participate in an inpatient program, detecting undiagnosed medical conditions, and patient education is discussed.
Safe sex? Misconceptions, gender differences and barriers among injection drug users: a focus group approach.	Heterosexual transmission is one factor involved in the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) within the injection drug use (IDU) population and between IDU and non-IDU individuals. Insufficient information is currently available to reduce this heterosexual transmission. As a basis for designing a questionnaire aimed at the IDU population, we conducted 5 focus groups to collect information on knowledge of and attitudes toward safe sex as held by male and female IDUs in methadone treatment. We identified misconceptions related to HIV infection, condoms, and sexual behavior. We also found gender-based differences in knowledge and learning style. Also, while individuals felt a responsibility to prevent HIV transmission, they lacked sufficient control to do so. The wide range of responses on questions concerning sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), condoms, reproductive decisions, and methods of promoting safe sex provides a basis for developing a questionnaire designed to identify and target specific subgroups for educational intervention.
Social network, support and influence: relationships with drug use and protective AIDS behavior.	One reason for difficulty in long-term maintenance of behavior changes by injection drug users (IDUs) is the concomitant support or distraction from the IDUs social environment. This study explored the relationship of social factors--e.g., encouragement from friends, beliefs about social norms--with drug injection behaviors. Subjects were clients in a short-term residential detoxification program. Self-reports of drug and AIDS-protective behaviors were gathered at baseline and at least 6 months following a trial of enhanced vs. informational educational interventions. Results provide support both for the general hypothesis about the influence of peers and drug-use partners prior and subsequent to detoxification and for the greater effectiveness of the enhanced intervention on social factors. Particularly important to improved drug use behavior were decreased number of friends who inject drugs (social network), increased number of people to talk with when upset (social support), and increased argument skills about safe drug use (social influence).
HIV prevalence and risk behaviour in injecting drug users in Berlin.	In injecting drug users (IDU) newly entering drug treatment centres in Berlin, HIV seroprevalence continuously decreased from 1985 through 1992. A recent cross-sectional study with multi-site sampling (n = 472) showed significantly differing HIV prevalences by site of recruitment (treatment centres 6%, storefront units 20%, infectious disease clinic 56%). In multivariate analysis, the borrowing of syringes in prison was the strongest independent predictor of HIV infection. A majority of the IDU have reduced risks of infection. However, current risk behaviour is common. Of all IDU, 48% reported the borrowing of syringes within the previous 6 months, only 13% had consequently used condoms. Current borrowing of syringes was associated with younger age, shorter history of intravenous drug use, negative HIV serostatus, and non-participation in methadone maintenance programmes. Continued preventive efforts against HIV transmission among IDU are needed.
HIV infection and AIDS among drug injectors at Rio de Janeiro: perspectives and unanswered questions.	Data from various countries show considerable variation in the rate of spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) among drug injectors. Although further research is needed to predict the rate of increase of seroprevalence at Rio de Janeiro, preliminary data confirm the presence of the virus, with a seroprevalence of about 33 per cent in 1990. Issues arising from research into the probable determinants of viral spread among the thousands of drug injectors in the city are outlined in the present paper. Even before the research is completed, however, it is clear that interventions are needed to reduce further viral transmission both among drug injectors and from them to their sexual partners and offspring. Efforts should be made to prevent the population at risk from initiating the practice of drug injection, and to promote a major expansion in drug abuse treatment facilities. Drug injectors should also be encouraged to reduce the risk of their becoming infected or passing on the virus to others, through educational outreach, through the distribution of supplies that facilitate risk reduction (bleach, syringes, condoms), and through innovative approaches to behaviour change.
HIV infection among drug abusers in the Belgrade area.	The abuse of heroin and other opiates by intravenous injection is identified as the major risk for the spread of infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) to the population at large. From 1980 to 1992, 2,712 opiate-addicted intravenous drug users with severe complications and behavioural problems were treated at the Institute on Addictions, Belgrade; 2,090 of them were from the Belgrade area and 622 from other urban areas. All of them had used heroin by intravenous injection during a certain period of their addiction careers. A majority of the patients had started using heroin by the age of 20, and begun treatment after six or more years of addiction. An informal survey of heroin-addicted intravenous drug users newly admitted for treatment showed that every respondent knew from 10 to 20 other heroin users who had not sought treatment. It was estimated that a majority of intravenous drug users may not have been known to the authorities. Of 551 intravenous-opiate-addicted patients from the Belgrade area tested between 1987 and 1992, 43.7 per cent were HIV-seropositive, or 47.9 per cent of HIV-seropositive males and 32.9 per cent of females, while for the same period, of 366 tested patients from other urban areas, 4.6 per cent were HIV-seropositive, 5.2 per cent of them males and 1.8 per cent females. The distribution by sex of the intravenous-opiate-addicted patients indicated that the percentage of females who started using heroin earlier in their lives and the percentage of those who sought treatment late--after six or more years of addiction--were higher than the corresponding percentages of males. Also, female patients tended to become infected with HIV earlier in their lives than male patients.
Drug injectors in Glasgow: a community at risk? A report from a multidisciplinary group. The Possilpark Group.	In 1987 it became apparent that the number of drug injectors with HIV infection living in a district in the north of Glasgow was increasing. As this area was well served by a wide variety of clinical, epidemiological and laboratory facilities, a multidisciplinary group was convened to examine the extent and spread of infection, and its relationship to behavioural and environmental factors. By 1989 a World Health Organisation working group had developed a standardised methodology, consisting of an interview schedule and voluntary anonymous HIV testing procedures. The study has been implemented annually in Glasgow since 1990, with a collateral project evaluating prevalence of injecting drug use in the general population. The Glasgow HIV Behavioural and Prevalence Study was designed to yield as representative as possible a sample of the city's injectors, respondents being drawn from a variety of in-treatment and out-of-treatment sites. Of the estimated 8,500 injectors in Glasgow (1.35% of the population aged 15-55), 503 and 535 injectors were recruited to the study in 1990 and 1991 respectively. Over 90% of respondents injected daily and reported injecting, on average, four different types of drugs in the six months prior to interview, the three most commonly injected drugs being buprenorphine, heroin and temazepam. There is evidence of HIV risk reduction for sharing of injecting equipment and for using condoms with casual sexual partners. Salivary testing has proved to be successful, less than 5% of respondents refusing to be tested; the prevalence rate was 1.8% in 1990 and 1.1% in 1991. While HIV prevalence remains low, all-cause mortality among injectors in Glasgow is high; drug injecting is probably responsible for more deaths among people aged under 40 than any other factor. At the present time, the drug injecting epidemic in Glasgow poses a considerable challenge to the city's public health services.
The clinical management of HIV-related dementia and other memory disorders in the residential drug treatment environment.	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related dementia and other memory and attention disorders are described in terms of etiology, incidence, and symptoms. Assessment for cognitive impairment includes basic screening (examples are given), or a thorough neuropsychological evaluation. Implications for treatment within the residential drug treatment environment include: (a) providing accurate information to staff and residents; (b) identifying residents' anticipatory anxiety; (c) supportive counseling of residents; (d) coaching residents in the use of coping strategies; (e) creating environmental support; and (f) frequent reassessment of treatment goals, including the appropriateness of independent living. Helpful concrete suggestions are listed.
Women opiate users' perceptions of treatment services in New York City.	This paper focuses on the treatment experiences of women opiate users in New York City. Historically, drug research has used male samples, and drug treatment programs have been based upon the concerns of men. Treatment counselors and administrators are typically male, and female clients are frequently outnumbered by male clients. In addition, unique needs of women are not addressed. Primary among these needs is child care, a provision that is not a standard feature of most programs. Additionally, many women opiate users may be in dysfunctional families and/or have histories of sexual victimization that may require special counselling. Using data from 208 women drug users who had been in an opiate treatment program, this paper examines their perceptions of the extent to which these programs incorporate women's distinctive concerns and the degree to which such provisions are affected by the perceived numbers of women clients in these programs.
Methadone combined with clonidine versus clonidine alone in opiate detoxification.	The availability and use of a methadone/clonidine combination versus clonidine alone in opiate detoxification were studied. In Phase I of the study, a sequential combination of methadone followed by clonidine was utilized in those patients presenting with a primary diagnosis of opiate dependence. During the Phase II of the study, only clonidine was available. Medications were administered only if the history and clinical findings indicated impending or acute opiate withdrawal syndrome. Overall, there was no difference between the Phase I and Phase II groups when the number of opiate dependent admissions, patients completing detoxification, and the patients completing a follow-up rehabilitation program were compared. However, the patients in Phase I whose clinical symptomatology warranted the use of methadone were more likely to complete the detoxification program when compared to the patients in Phase II who received clonidine only. There was no difference between the two groups in completion of a follow-up rehabilitation. Detoxification with clonidine alone was more likely to be successful if the patient has had prior detoxification experience with methadone or if there was a secondary dependence of alcohol, sedative, or tranquilizer present coexisting with the primary opiate dependence diagnosis.
Alcohol and cocaine abusers 6 months after traditional treatment: do they fare as well as problem drinkers?	Problem drinkers (N = 49) and individuals presenting with both alcohol and cocaine problems (N = 51) admitted to a traditional 28-day alcoholism treatment milieu were compared on their psychosocial, psychological, neuropsychological functioning and substance abuse at admission as well as at six months posttreatment follow-up. On admission, alcohol and cocaine patients were younger, more likely to live alone or with their family of origin, to report having started using alcohol at an earlier age, to have fewer alcohol-related problems and to have fewer years of but more diversity in their substance abuse than the alcohol-only patients. Otherwise both groups were more similar than different on psychosocial, psychological and neuropsychological dimensions. At six-months posttreatment, both groups showed similar improvement on most dimensions of functioning measured. However, a significantly greater proportion of the alcohol and cocaine abusers admitted to having relapsed in the previous six months, reported significantly fewer average days of abstinence than the alcohol group since terminating treatment, and were more likely to present urine specimens indicative of recent substance abuse at the six-month follow-up interview. Thus, traditional approaches to alcoholism treatment may be less effective in establishing abstinence for individuals with both alcohol and cocaine problems. Adaptations to treatment to reduce the risk for relapse faced by alcohol and cocaine abusers in such milieu are discussed.
Treatment of drug abuse syndromes.	This article serves as an introduction to the treatment of the various drug abuse syndromes. The theoretical concept underlying all diagnoses in drug dependence is presented first in detail, along with an extensive discussion of how these diagnoses are operationalized. Tolerance and dependence among the various drugs of abuse are considered. The review of treatment approaches divides drugs of abuse into pharmacologic categories and treatment into time segments, acute detoxification, intermediate-term, and long-term treatment. Pharmacotherapies for each of the categories of substance abuse and for each of the time periods are presented in a treatment-oriented fashion. Drug substitution therapy is considered. Individual and group therapy are discussed, as is education in the form of group process and peer feedback. The role of peer support groups is stressed. Finally, patient placement criteria across levels of care are explained.
The process of treatment selection among previously untreated help-seeking problem drinkers.	A sample of 515 untreated problem drinkers was followed up for 1 year after contacting alcohol information and referral or detoxification services. At the 1-year follow-up, participants were placed into one of four treatment status groups: no treatment (24%), Alcoholics Anonymous only (18%), outpatient (25%), and inpatient or residential (32%). Participants with fewer financial resources, more serious drinking problems, and poorer functioning at baseline were more likely to enter inpatient or residential programs than outpatient treatment. Persons who selected AA only for treatment were of lower socioeconomic status than outpatients, and were functioning better than those who opted for treatment in inpatient or residential settings. In general, individuals who entered treatment received a considerable amount of treatment. Poorer baseline functioning was related to attending more AA meetings or outpatient sessions, and to staying longer in inpatient or residential treatment. The results are discussed in the context of a conceptual model of selection into alcoholism treatment.
Reliability of self-reported human immunodeficiency virus risk behaviors in a residential drug treatment population.	This study examined test-retest reliabilities of self-reported human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) sexual and drug injection behaviors among 246 prior drug users admitted to either of two residential drug treatment programs in Westborough, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Island, between June 1990 and September 1992. Participants, selected by their date of admission, were administered admission and reliability questionnaires pertaining to HIV risk behaviors, the latter at approximately 2 weeks after admission. Estimated reliabilities (kappa coefficients) of the sexual behaviors ranged from 0.72 to 0.91; those for the drug injection variables ranged from 0.63 to 0.98. These results were consistent across groups defined by sex and injection of drugs. The consistently good reliabilities are significant to the design of independent studies of drug treatment populations utilizing self-report measures of sexual and drug behaviors.
Trends in human immunodeficiency virus seroprevalence among injection drug users entering drug treatment centers, United States, 1988-1993.	National unlinked sentinel surveillance data were used to describe trends in prevalent human immunodeficiency virus infection among injection drug users entering drug treatment programs in the United States from 1988 through 1993. During this 6-year period, unlinked testing was performed on 70,882 specimens from injection drug users at 60 sentinel sites. The annual change in seroprevalence was estimated for each site by odds ratios obtained from logistic regression models fit within site-specific age and race/ethnicity subgroups. Overall trends for age and race/ethnicity subgroups across sites were described by summary odds ratios calculated using the inverse variance method. A decrease was observed among younger (age less than 30 years) whites both in areas with high (10% or higher) and low (less than 10%) prevalence, although this decrease was significant only in high-prevalence areas (odds ratio = 0.90, 95% confidence interval 0.81-0.99). Seroprevalence also decreased among older whites in high-prevalence areas, although this decrease was not significant (odds ratio = 0.95, 95% confidence interval 0.89-1.00). Seroprevalence remained stable among all other age and race/ethnicity subgroups. Stable seroprevalence among the dynamic population of injection drug users entering treatment suggests continued transmission among these individuals in both high- and low-prevalence areas of the United States.
Benefits of low-threshold services for drug addicts exemplified by the city of Zurich]	Low threshold services for drug users are a comparatively new approach in programs for drug users. The authors evaluate the facilities offered in Zurich with special regard to their establishment, concepts and objectives. The change of paradigms from unconditional abstinence towards an accepting attitude is characterized and explained by the notions of conceptualization, differentiation and resubjectivation. The evaluation aims at the assessment of these premises of low threshold programs for drug users. The assessment is scheduled in three stages from January to December 1995. This requires the use of standardized quantitative and guideline based qualitative instruments. In baseline interviews a total of 837 contacts with 655 persons could be achieved. Sociodemographic features, drug career and frequency of use of the different facilities on the sample day are described as initial data. A recontact rate of 60% from the first panel of interviews which ended in January 1995 considered satisfactory.
Evaluation of "Wallstrasse 16", day facility for the homeless and needy in Basel]	"16, Wallstrasse, Common House for homeless and indigent People" in Basel is a new kind of facility in the range of already existing low threshold institutions of common kitchen, low threshold centre and night's lodging. This daycenter has the objective to offer homeless and indigent persons a place of tranquility rest where they can make new acquaintances and feel at home. In addition, its various facilities meet the sanitary needs of its clientele. The evaluation of the "Wallstrasse" was conducted by the Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine of the Basel University on behalf of the Federal Office of Health. Combining qualitative and quantitative research methods it inquired 1.) to what extent the institution realized its own objectives and 2.) if and how it met the needs of its target group. The evaluation revealed that its clientele mainly consisted of marginalized consumers of illegal drugs exclusively coming from that very area and often living in unstable housing conditions. Thus, the intended target group was reached. Within a year's time the attendance increased from 10 to 80 visitors a day to a high frequency of use. All of the various facilities of the house were used and appreciated. The evaluation stressed the significance as a place of tranquility and rest offering shelter not found in the street. The daycenter fills a gap in the range of low threshold services and contributes to the drug scene remove from the street. It establishes the base for extended social work which however cannot be properly realized due to the shortage of personnel. The evaluation found a good acceptance among the residents as well as a conflict free relationship with the police and a good cooperation with other institutions.
Evaluation of Haus Breitenstein, a low-threshold living facility in the city of Zurich]	Early in 1991 in attended home with 13 rooms was established in the Breitenstein House in Zurich as a low threshold survival aid for most severe drug addicts. After only 17 months, before the end of the two-year pilot phase, the facility was closed for economic reasons. The objective of the project laid emphasis on the furtherance of each resident's initiative and responsibility. Using quantitative as well as qualitative instruments the accompanying evaluation came to the conclusion that the attended low threshold accommodation is a realistic completion and an alternative to already existing aids. The institution enabled the drug addicts to reestablish their damaged autonomy and take a constructive step towards the shaping of their lives. In individual cases a substantial structural change could be initiated. The authors concluded that the Breitenstein House was a successful attempt to develop comprehensive strategies in drug policy.
Evaluation of occupational programs in the city of Zurich]	Occupational and job integration programs are components of low threshold drug policies. Since the mid-eighties many such projects have been realized not least to counteract the increasing pauperization of drug addicts and the spreading of AIDS. Two of these occupational programs, the "job-Bus" and the "Frderband (Conveyor Belt)", were evaluated by the means of two quantitative cross-sectional studies and by a qualitative topic oriented interview in the second phase. The results presented refer to the second phase of the evaluation. The proportion of women in the programs is low with only 10%. The average age of 38.4 is higher than in other institutions for drug users. The work program is well accepted among the participants, and there is a high demand for such programs in the target group. Non-material aspects such as structuring of days, contact opportunities and fulfillment give the institution an additional significance. The author therefore recommends expansion of these programs under occupational and socio-pedagogical aspects in doing so, the underrepresented women and young adults ought to be reached. Furthermore it should be examined whether stable users can be employed permanently.
Drug users outside medical treatment: methodological and practical aspects]	A legal context that classifies the consumption of heroin and cocaine as an illegal act, poses a considerable methodological challenge to research on users of these substances. This is in particular the case for research on those users who are not in treatment and, therefore, cannot be recruited through treatment settings. In a research project on heroin and/or cocaine users outside treatment settings, a sample of 917 individuals was recruited through "Privileged Access Interviewers" in the whole of Switzerland. In the first part of this article, we discuss matters of reliability as well as of validity concerning this method of data collection. In the second part of the article, we discuss the use of low threshold syringe exchange schemes by the user groups represented in the sample. Only intravenous drug users frequent those services - they are however a minority in the sample (n = 238). In several regions of Switzerland syringe exchange schemes do not exist. Where they do exist, they appear to correspond to a need which they are able to cover largely. In the regions without such services, intravenous drug users get their supply of syringes more frequently from pharmacies. However, pharmacies do not compensate the absence of specific syringe exchange schemes. In regions without such schemes, injections with used syringes are more frequent. Thus, regarding Aids-Prevention, there is an urgent need to develop syringe exchange schemes in all parts of the country.
Validity of the SCID in substance abuse patients.	Structured or semi-structured interviews, including the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R (SCID), are used widely to maximize the reliability and validity of psychiatric diagnoses. Although the reliability of such interviews appears adequate, there has been little effort to evaluate their validity. In a sample of 100 substance abuse patients, we evaluated the concurrent, discriminant and predictive validity of SCID substance use diagnoses, as well as co-morbid disorders that occur commonly among these patients. The validity of current and life-time substance use diagnoses obtained by a research technician using the SCID was good; it was moderate for antisocial personality disorder and major depression and poor for anxiety disorders. Although accurate diagnosis of substance use disorders in substance abuse patients can be accomplished by a research technician, the diagnosis of co-morbid psychiatric disorders requires either additional expertise or the use of a diagnostic instrument specially designed for that purpose.
Group intervention with pre-recovery patients.	This article examines treatment outcomes of alcohol and drug abusing patients admitted to a university-based alcohol and drug outpatient clinic. Treatment effectiveness of two treatment models were evaluated. The psycho-educational approach utilized a teacher-student model with the goal of imparting information about drugs and consequences of use. The recovery-oriented approach utilized a patient-counselor collaborative model where patients were encouraged to be active in progressing through sequential stages of pre-recovery tasks. Patients in the psycho-education group stayed in treatment longer and were more likely to rate treatment as useful. Results showed minimal differences between the two groups in terms of Addiction Severity Index scores, Drug Attitude, and urine drug screen results.
The effect of anxiety and depression on completion/withdrawal status in patients admitted to substance abuse detoxification program.	A large proportion of patients entering substance abuse treatment carry psychiatric diagnoses, and some studies have found that those with psychopathology are more likely to withdraw before treatment is completed. We performed a prospective study of patients entering an inpatient substance abuse detoxification program to determine if the degree of anxiety and/or depression correlated with higher dropout rates. On entry to the unit, all patients were administered the Hamilton Rating Scales for Depression and Anxiety. Of the 148 patients studied, 97 (65.5%) completed treatment and 51 (34.5%) withdrew prematurely. There were no significant differences in Hamilton Depression and Anxiety Rating Scale scores between completers and withdrawers. This was true for the total study population, as well as for subgroups of patients based on primary drug abused (heroin or cocaine). Although anxiety and depression are common in substance abusers, we were unable to detect differences on validated anxiety and depression rating scales between those completing and those withdrawing from substance abuse detoxification.
Physical characteristics of residential psychiatric and substance abuse programs: organizational determinants and patients outcomes.	Described the Physical and Architectural Characteristics Inventory (PACI), which assesses the physical characteristics of hospital- and community-based psychiatric and substance abuse residential treatment programs for adults. Developed using data from 94 representative programs, the PACI has 7 dimensions that assess community accessibility, physical features that add convenience, aid recreation, and provide support for patients, and space for patient and staff functions. In comparison to community-based programs (n = 63), hospital programs (n = 31) had more social-recreational and prosthetic aids, safety features, staff facilities, and space. The PACI dimensions were also related to other organizational features, such as facility ownership and program size and staffing level. Programs with more physical amenities had patients who were more involved in self-initiated and community activities and were more likely to successfully complete the program and be discharged to independent living situations and paid jobs. Programs with more social-recreational and prosthetic aids, space, and access to community resources also had better patient outcomes. In addition, PACI dimensions were related to observers' ratings of facility attractiveness. Potential applications of the PACI and the full inventory of which it is a part are discussed.
Dynamic Recovery: comparative study of therapeutic communities in homeless shelters for men.	The Dynamic Recovery Project examined relationships between homelessness, substance abuse, and recovery, and investigated the effectiveness of the therapeutic community (TC) treatment model in helping homeless drug users move toward stable, drug-free living. This project compared two short-term TCs that were situated within pre-existing homeless shelters with a clean and sober dormitory. In a separate condition, peer counselors and staff were provided additional training in TC philosophy and practice to reduce program dropout. Dramatic decreases in drug and alcohol use at follow-up were verified by urinalysis. Length of time in treatment rather than specific program accounted for decreased alcohol and drug use. Important decreases in posttreatment criminality for both treatment programs were documented. The comparison group, starting with low criminality, experienced smaller, nonsignificant decreases unrelated to type of program or time in treatment. Major declines in Beck Depression Scores were evident, but were unrelated to groups or time in treatment. Training had no measurable impact on client retention or outcomes and there were no significant differences between TCs and the comparison group on posttreatment drug use, criminality, or depression. This report documents that short-term therapeutic communities can be successfully implemented in public shelters for homeless men.
Laboratory exposure to cocaine cues does not increase cocaine use by outpatient subjects.	Sixty-nine cocaine-dependent outpatients were exposed to cocaine-related stimuli and to non-drug events on separate days. Cocaine cue sessions were always followed by a meeting with a trained clinician designed to eliminate any craving that remained following cue presentations. Urine samples were collected before each laboratory session and 1 to 3 days later. Neither rates of cocaine use nor average urine metabolite values differed following the two sessions. Nearly 90% of subjects had the same urine test result both before and after the cocaine cue session. Thus, laboratory presentation of cocaine cues to outpatient subjects did not increase their risk of subsequent drug-taking. These results suggest that with proper clinical protections, cue exposure can be used as a treatment outcome measure and a behavioral intervention in outpatient settings without increasing the risk of drug use.
Differences between general practitioner- and addiction centre-prescribed buprenorphine substitution therapy in France. Preliminary results.	The treatment of heroin addiction in France relies on either general practitioners (GP) or specialist Addiction Centres (ACs). In general, the GPs offer a more flexible approach regarding frequency of consultations, urine tests and dosing regimen while the AC approach is more structured. A cohort study was undertaken to compare the treatment strategies of buprenorphine therapy between these medical environments. To determine the efficacy of each treatment, a number of outcomes were measured including the Addiction Severity Index, retention rates at 90 and 180 days, the average dose prescribed, quality of life assessment, body weight and two self-reported measures: treatment perception and predictive total duration. A total of 69 patients were enrolled; 32 treated by GPs and 37 treated in ACs. Significant differences, including average age, addiction severity and employment status were apparent between each group. Nevertheless, significant improvements in the social and medical status were observed in all patients after 3 months, continuing after 6 months in both groups. Treatment retention was good in both groups with 65% of the total sample remaining after 180 days. The usually more flexible GP approach was more rigid in this study, resulting in an equally positive treatment outcome as seen in the ACs. The study highlights the effectiveness of buprenorphine in addicts with different social and medical backgrounds, regardless of the therapeutic approach.
Hazelden's model of treatment and its outcome.	Although the Minnesota Model of treatment for alcohol and drug addiction is a common treatment approach, there are few published reports of its effectiveness. This study describes the Minnesota Model treatment approach as practiced at Hazelden, a private residential alcohol and drug abuse treatment center located in Center City, Minnesota (a founding program of the Minnesota Model) and presents recent outcome results from this program. This study includes 1,083 male and female clients admitted to Hazelden for treatment of a psychoactive substance-use disorder between 1989 and 1991. The outcome study is a one group pretest/posttest design. Data collection occurred at admission to treatment and at 1-month, 6-month, and 12-month posttreatment. At 1-year follow-up, 53% reported that they remained abstinent during the year following treatment and an additional 35% had reduced their alcohol and drug use. These results are similar to those reported by other private treatment programs. The Minnesota Model has consistently yielded satisfactory outcome results, and future research needs to focus on the therapeutic process of this common treatment approach.
Psychodynamic approach to the addictive personality structure specific for alcohol and hard drugs]	The overconsumption of psychotropic substances is a major problem for contemporary societies. In the USA, 14.1% of the population between the age 15 and 54 have experienced addiction problems to alcohol during their lives while as 7.5% are addicted for life to other drugs (cannabis, cocaine, stimulants, etc). Many studies report that excessive consumption of alcohol, with or without illegal drug use, is associated to social conditions favoring the development of psychological distress and isolation. Although there are many studies on the differences between personality traits of alcoholics and drug users, few authors have examined the possibility to bring to the fore a specificity between the personality structures of the alcoholic and the drug user from a psychodynamic approach. This exploratory review of literature, first presents studies already conducted in order to identify common or distinct personality features for these types of addition. This article then reviews psychodynamic writings examining the possibility of a structural organization that is specific to addiction. Finally, the authors propose a few thoughts allowing to postulate on the existence of a structural organization specific to these two types of addiction.
Occurrence of cocaine in urine of substance-abuse treatment patients.	As part of ongoing research efforts to improve methods of monitoring drug use in treatment patients, the presence of cocaine in urine specimens was evaluated as a possible marker for recent illicit cocaine use. A total of 2327 urine specimens collected during a 17-week clinical trial of a cocaine-abuse treatment study were tested. Cocaine was measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and benzoylecgonine (BZE) equivalents were determined by fluorescence polarization immunoassay (FPIA). More than one-third of the specimens were positive (> 25 ng/mL) for cocaine (36.8%), and nearly two-thirds were positive (> 300 ng/mL) for cocaine metabolite by FPIA (62.7%). Median concentrations of cocaine and BZE equivalents were 235 and 14,900 ng/mL, respectively, and maximum concentrations were 112,025 and 1,101,190 ng/mL in cocaine- and BZE-positive specimens, respectively. There were 52 specimens that contained cocaine in equal or higher concentrations than BZE equivalents. No significant differences in cocaine or BZE concentrations between Caucasian and African-American or between male and female patients were found. Cocaine was present less frequently and at lower concentrations than BZE but more frequently than expected based on an average half-life of approximately 1 h, which suggests that cocaine may exhibit a longer terminal half-life and/or that accumulation of cocaine can occur in chronic, heavy users.
Drug abuse treatment as HIV prevention: changes in social drug use patterns might also reduce risk.	Fifty one individuals (37 male and 14 female) were asked to report on the social and behavioral circumstances related to their opiate drug use prior to and during a 90-day methadone detoxification treatment. Data were collected by means of a weekly structured interview. Questions were asked about each occasion of opiate use in the previous week with respect to time, source, cost, social circumstance, etc. Monitored urine samples were tested x 3/week to verify verbal reports. The study demonstrated beneficial effects of the detoxification treatment by showing dramatic decreases in rates and amounts of opiate drug use during treatment. Of perhaps greater significance, large scale changes were also noted in the frequency of use with others. This decline in use with others was most dramatic with respect to strangers and acquaintances. Implications of these observations for HIV transmission are discussed.
Trends in HIV seroprevalence, AIDS and prevention policy among intravenous drug users and men who have sex with men, before and after 1990 in Austria.	This study reports for the first time on secular trends in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and AIDS, and possible associations with prevention policy in Austria. We analysed HIV seroprevalence and AIDS cases among intravenous drug users (IDU) and men who have sex with men (MSM). In this study we found a diminished rate of increase in new cases of AIDS and a decline in HIV seroprevalence among IDU but not among MSM. Among clients visiting HIV counselling and testing centres in Austria between 1987 and 1990, seroprevalence among IDU was estimated at 27.9% as compared to 19.6% between 1990 and 1992 (odds ratio (OR): 0.62; 0.45-0.85). Among MSM corresponding prevalence for these two periods was 12.1% and 10.9%, respectively, which was not a significant decline. In the period 1990 to 1994, the increase in AIDS cases per half-year levelled off for IDU (incidence rate ratio (IRR) :1.00; 0.99-1.01) but to a lesser extent among MSM (IRR: 1.01; 1.01-1.02). The most effective prevention policy intervention was considered to be the national Methadone Maintenance Program (MMTP), started in 1987, and the provision of sterile injection equipment. We observed that in the recent period there was a decline in the frequency of attendance among young (less than 28 years of age) MSM at counselling centres (OR: 1.27; 95 % CI: 1.08-1.49), accompanied by the observation that the rate of seroprevalence among this group did not decline. This is in contrast to young IDU where attendance did not decline but seroprevalence did. Although inference is limited from cross sectional studies, we argue for a reoriented and effectively monitored HIV prevention policy focused on young MSM.
Outpatient opiate detoxification treatment with buprenorphine. Preliminary investigation.	In an open study design, 50 opioid-dependent subjects (DSM-IV: 304. 0) were investigated in a gradual detoxification treatment with buprenorphine. The study was performed at the drug addiction outpatient clinic of the Department of General Psychiatry at the University of Vienna. Subjects had to contact the outpatient clinic on a daily basis and buprenorphine was administered according to their clinical status. Withdrawal symptoms were evaluated by applying the WANG scale. Urine samples were screened for drug toxicology to exclude additional consumption. In this investigation buprenorphine was applied sublingually in a free dosage scheme aimed at completing detoxification treatment within 10 days by reducing buprenorphine on a daily basis. A mean daily dosage of 2.3 mg buprenorphine was required by patients on day 1 of the treatment period. The highest mean daily buprenorphine dosage was given on day 2, followed by a daily reduction over the study period. The result of this open study design revealed that a gradual daily reduction of buprenorphine might be a successful alternative outpatient detoxification treatment in opioid-dependent subjects. Compliance was 70%, the reported and evaluated withdrawal symptoms during the study period were moderate.
