Tennessee Williams.	Tennessee Williams was one of the greatest American playwrights of all time. Born into a family with a strong history of serious mental illness, Williams seemed to have had several major depressive episodes during his early adulthood, along with severe and worsening alcohol and drug dependence and abuse involving sedatives and stimulants throughout his adult life. He received treatment of variable quality and duration in middle and old age. Despite his mental illness, Williams continued to be a productive writer even after age 60, although his later works were less successful. The authors consider both the strengths and limitations of Williams' coping mechanisms.
The Journal of Inebriety (1876-1914): history, topical analysis, and photographic images.	The publication of the Journal of Inebriety (1876-1914) chronicled the rise and fall of the first era of organized addiction medicine in the United States.
Social movements in health.	Most public health practitioners know that public health has relied on biomedical advances and administrative improvements, but it is less commonly understood that social movements in health have also been sources of motivation for population health advances. This review considers the impacts of social movements focused on urban conditions and health, on the health of children, and on behavioral and substance-related determinants of health and illustrates how these movements have significantly influenced public health activities and programs. We hope this review will motivate public health workers to make common cause with social activists and to encourage social activists to ally with public health professionals. 
The case of Anna O.: a neuropsychiatric perspective.	Previous interpretations have not adequately explained the presence of focal neurological signs, delirium, and a variety of highly specific disturbances of perception, language, and sensorium in the case of Anna O. Examination of the neurological details suggests that Anna suffered from complex partial seizures exacerbated by drug dependence, and that she developed conversion symptoms patterned after the preexisting organic pathology. Hysterical conversion symptoms that mimic ictal events are not uncommon in psychomotor epilepsy. Recent neuropsychiatric models of hysteria are remarkably similar to the hypnoid states theory Breuer formulated, based on his observation of Anna O. The hypothesis presented here does not conflict with previous psychodynamic interpretations. I submit that it was the development of a conversion disorder patterned on actual organic phenomena, which highlighted for Breuer and Freud the "psychical mechanism" of somatic symptoms, thus paving the way for the important psychodynamic discoveries for which the case is remembered.
Sigmund Freud and cocaine]	The basic tenet proposed by J. V. Scheidt states that the narcotic drug, cocaine played a role in the development of psychoanalysis which has been underestimated up to the present day. It is a fact that Freud himself took cocaine (in small doses) for about two years, and that he began his dream interpretation approximately ten years later. Scheidt believes that a long, unconscious conflict related to the cocaine-induced states of euphoria (ten years later) suddenly led to the beginnings of dream interpretation. The question to be answered now is: Why did this happen precisely in 1895? The foundations of psychoanalysis had already been laid, the application of the new method to the treatment of nervous disorders (heart complaints, train phobias, etc.) was certainly obvious. During this self-analysis it became necessary, first of all, to come to terms with the self-reproaches-which lay on the surface and were more accessible to consciousness-related to Freud's cocaine period (Fleischl-Marxow becomes addicted to cocaine, the most terrible night ever experienced, death of this friend, Freud's warning came too late). It was only when Freud has come to terms with this phase of his life that the road to the deepest part, the discovery of the Oedipus complex in the fall of 1897, was cleared.
The interchange of disease and health between the Old and New Worlds.	A review of the five centuries since Columbus discovered America helps us understand the mutual contributions of the Old and the New Worlds to the history of diseases and their treatment. It also shows the consequences of this "mutual discovery" as they are currently emerging in the fields of health, culture, and the environment. To evaluate the multiple aspects of the interchange between the Old and New Worlds, this article discusses the following: the causes of the rapid decline of the original American populations; the diffusion of communicable diseases between the two civilizations; the health consequences of the nutritional changes on both sides of the Atlantic; drug addictions, as they developed through the centuries and as they exist today; the ways diseases were and are evaluated, prevented, diagnosed, and treated; and the mutual impact of different models of health services. Arguing that a major global change following the discovery of America was the transition from isolation of the two worlds to communication, and more recently, to global interdependence, the article also discusses some problems of bioethical relevance and the possible impact of new epidemics. Finally, it suggests that a critical analysis of the past may help stimulate future cooperation and solidarity.
