Nicotine dependence and withdrawal in an oncology setting: a risk factor for psychiatric comorbidity and treatment non-adherence.	Highly nicotine dependent oncology patients are at high risk for psychiatric morbidity when they enter the medical care setting where smoking restrictions apply. Nicotine withdrawal symptoms exacerbate cancer-related distress as well as common physical side effects of cancer treatment. This case report illustrates the management of a patient whose ongoing treatment for bladder cancer was jeopardized as a result of nicotine dependence and withdrawal. Several associated complications are described, the most serious of which were his acute anxiety and non-adherence to medical recommendations. A short-term management approach that included anxiolytics and nicotine replacement was effectively used to reduce this patient's excessive anxiety and thus facilitate compliance with stressful treatments. The severity of complications that can result from untreated nicotine dependence and withdrawal underscores the importance of assessing and monitoring smoking status in every patient. Greater staff awareness of the clinical practice guidelines regarding the diagnosis and treatment of nicotine dependence will likely result in improved patient care and compliance.
Neuropsychological deficits in withdrawn cocaine-dependent males.	Previous research suggests that cocaine abuse may result in neuropsychological deficits. To examine this further, we compared cocaine-withdrawn patients (N = 35) to normal controls (N = 17) on tasks of attention, concentration, perceptual-motor speed, and cognitive flexibility. The withdrawn cocaine patients performed significantly worse on Arithmetic, Grooved Peg Board Dominant and Non-Dominant, and Trails B tests. These findings suggest that withdrawn cocaine-dependent patients have more neuropsychological impairment than normal controls.
Multiple previous alcohol detoxifications are associated with decreased medial temporal and paralimbic function in the postwithdrawal period.	Functional neuroimaging studies after alcohol cessation have demonstrated that chronic alcohol use globally reduces neuronal activity for several weeks. Less is known about the effects of previous alcohol use patterns on regional brain activity. Multiple previous alcohol detoxifications are associated with a worse clinical course and increased risk of seizures, perhaps due to sensitization of key brain structures. We performed the following imaging study in alcoholics in the postwithdrawal period to determine if blood flow in medial temporal structures would differ as a function of previous alcohol use (i.e., whether regions were kindled or sensitized due to multiple detoxifications).
Acute alcohol withdrawal and free flap mandibular reconstruction outcomes.	To evaluate the effect of acute postoperative alcohol withdrawal on survival of vascularized fibular grafts for mandibular reconstruction.
Withdrawal from chronic amphetamine induces depressive-like behavioral effects in rodents.	Amphetamine withdrawal and major depression share many behavioral commonalities in humans. Therefore, the examination of the behavioral effects of amphetamine withdrawal in rodents may provide insights into the neurobiological mechanisms underlying both disorders and aid in the development of animal models of depression that are sensitive to antidepressant agents.
Mpdz is a quantitative trait gene for drug withdrawal seizures.	Physiological dependence and associated withdrawal episodes can constitute a powerful motivational force that perpetuates drug use and abuse. Using robust behavioral models of drug physiological dependence in mice, positional cloning, and sequence and expression analyses, we identified an addiction-relevant quantitative trait gene, Mpdz. Our findings provide a framework to define the protein interactions and neural circuit by which this gene's product (multiple PDZ domain protein) affects drug dependence, withdrawal and relapse.
Restlessness in intensive care unit: think to the nicotinic withdrawal syndrome]	We report a case of tobacco-addicted woman who has been hospitalized in intensive care unit. During mechanical ventilation, management of sedation was difficult, when she was awake, we observed restlessness associated with failure of the mechanical ventilation weaning. The improvement of restlessness and mechanical ventilation were obtained when we set a transdermal nicotine patch. This observation suggests that the nicotine withdrawal syndrome is an unrecognized cause of restlessness and that the transdermal nicotine patch should be a diagnosis means which is safe, cheap and easy to use.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome and clozapine withdrawal at the same time?	The authors report a case of a patient, who in a few days after an abrupt discontinuation of clozapine and haloperidol developed agitated and confused state resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and clozapine withdrawal symptoms at the same time. Data obtained from family members led to gradual reintroduction of clozapine and to subsequent recovery. The case illustrates the importance for clinicians to be familiar with the variety of discontinuation symptoms, so they can recognize them and offer effective treatment.
Naltrexone treatment of combined alcohol and opioid dependence: deterioration of co-morbid major depression.	Naltrexone is frequently used for the treatment of opioid or alcohol dependence. However, the reports on its potential to worsen affective disorders are contradicting. Here we report on a patient with combined alcohol and opioid dependence whose co-morbid major depression deteriorated reversibly and repeatedly under naltrexone. By exchanging buprenorphine for naltrexone, his depression and craving for alcohol and opioids disappeared. This underlines the close interaction between depression, substance dependence and the opioid system.
Weekend attacks in migraine patients: caused by caffeine withdrawal?	The principal reasons for a predominantly weekend incidence of migraine attacks are likely to be social or psychological in origin. There may be another factor. This study examines the use, and more importantly the way of use, of caffeine containing substances. We collected data by questionnaire from 151 consecutive Migraine Clinic patients with the diagnosis of migraine or tension type headache. Of the whole group, 21.9% claimed to have weekend attacks, with relatively more males than females. The males amongst these were all migraine patients, but 23% of the women suffered from tension-type headache. Patients with both a high daily caffeine intake and excessively delayed wakening at weekends (each defined as greater than the mean for the whole group) had a 69% risk of weekend headache. This compared with 4% in patients exceeding the mean in one only, and zero in those with moderate habits in both. These results support the idea that weekend attacks are linked to caffeine withdrawal. Sleeping in is not on its own a significant cause. We suggest that this possibility should be considered in clinical management of affected patients.
Novelty reward as a measure of anhedonia.	A decrease in sensitivity to pleasurable stimuli, anhedonia, is a major symptom of depression in humans. Several animal models have been developed to simulate this symptom (e.g. drug withdrawal, learned helplessness) using reward-sensitive procedures such as intracranial self-stimulation and progressive ratio responding as a measure of reward function. Recently, we introduced the use of another procedure, novel-object place conditioning in rats, to measure reward function in an associative learning situation. Withdrawal from chronic nicotine blocked a place preference conditioned by access to novel objects. This blockade was not due to impairment of object interaction, general activity, novelty detection, environmental familiarization, or expression of learning. Consequently, nicotine withdrawal directly reduced the rewarding properties of novelty. It is proposed that the novel-object place conditioning procedure could be usefully extended to other experimental situations and to genetically altered mice, so as to better understand the processes underlying changes in reward function.
Psychostimulant withdrawal as an inducing condition in animal models of depression.	A large body of evidence indicates that the withdrawal from high doses of psychostimulant drugs in humans induces a transient syndrome, with symptoms that appear isomorphic to those of major depressive disorder. Pharmacological treatment strategies for psychostimulant withdrawal in humans have focused mainly on compounds with antidepressant properties. Animal models of psychostimulant withdrawal have been shown to demonstrate a wide range of deficits, including changes in homeostatic, affective and cognitive behaviors, as well as numerous physiological changes. Many of these behavioral and physiological sequelae parallel specific symptoms of major depressive disorder, and have been reversed by treatment with antidepressant drugs. These combined findings provide strong support for the use of psychostimulant withdrawal as an inducing condition in animal models of depression. In the current review we propound that the psychostimulant withdrawal model displays high levels of predictive and construct validity. Recent progress and limitations in the development of this model, as well as future directions for research, are evaluated and discussed.
Cardiovascular complications of cocaine abuse.	Cardiovascular complications are among the most common and dangerous complications of cocaine abuse, ranging from episodic arrhythmias to myocardial infarction, strokes, cardiomyopathy, and sudden death. The central nervous system-mediated action of cocaine triggers an increase in circulating catecholamines, resulting in arterial vasoconstriction, increase in myocardial oxygen demand, myocardial ischemia, tachycardia, and other arrhythmias. The peripheral cardiovascular action of cocaine involves the inhibition of reuptake of catecholamines at adrenergic nerve terminals, with local release of epinephrine, direct stimulation and vasospasm of the coronary arteries, coronary intimal hyperplasia, inhibition of baroreceptors, interference with the electrical conduction through the myocardium, and direct myocardial toxicity. The cardiovascular complications of cocaine include cardiac dysrhythmias and hypertension, acute myocardial infarction, myocarditis, infectious endocarditis, ventricular dysfunction, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypotensive shock, and cerebral strokes. Cocaine-related vascular changes in the pregnant woman and fetus have been related to an increased incidence of abortion, abruptio placentae, and congenital anomalies of the fetus.
Medical aspects of panic disorder.	Panic attacks may be due to one or more of a large number of underlying physical or psychiatric disorders. Only when these possible etiologies have been excluded may the diagnosis of panic disorder be established.
Tardive akathisia and tardive dyskinesia]	Akathisia and tardive dyskinesia are thought to be different entities, while tardive akathisia is considered a variant of akathisia. In the case presented, tardive akathisia first appeared when phenothiazine medication was stopped and then, following a cerebrovascular accident, tardive akathisia disappeared with the emergence of tardive dyskinesia. This case suggests the possibility of a relationship between these 2 disorders.
Ethanol withdrawal induces hyperalgesia mediated by PKCepsilon.	Symptoms of ethanol withdrawal include heightened responses to sensory stimuli, as well as tremors and convulsions. We tested the hypothesis that repeated episodes of ethanol intake and withdrawal exacerbate the symptoms of alcohol-induced peripheral neuropathy. In contrast to the hyperalgesia produced when an alcohol (6.5%)-containing diet was fed continuously to male rats which took 4 weeks to develop (Dina et al., 2000), feeding alcohol (6.5%) in repeated cycles of 4 days of alcohol followed by 3 days without alcohol resulted in a withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia that began at the end of one weekly cycle and reached a maximum during the fourth cycle. For ethanol withdrawal to produce hyperalgesia, ethanol consumption needed to be terminated for a period of 2 days. Paradoxically, as the amount of alcohol consumed decreased, the hyperalgesia induced by withdrawal developed more rapidly, being maximal between 1.4 and 1.6% ethanol. These results suggest that continued exposure to ethanol also has a neuroprotective effect. Withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia, similar to the hyperalgesia induced by continuous, chronic alcohol intake, was inhibited reversibly by intrathecal administration of an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to protein kinase C (PKC)epsilon.
Effects of alcohol withdrawal on blood pressure in hypertensive heavy drinkers.	Epidemiological investigations have demonstrated a close association between heavy alcohol consumption and hypertension. The mechanisms of this association, however, remain elusive. We studied the effects of alcohol withdrawal on blood pressure, hormonal parameters, and circulating markers of endothelial activity.
Enhanced anxiety follows withdrawal from subchronic exposure to phencyclidine in rats.	Anxiety was assessed in rats treated with 5mg/kg of PCP bid for 7 days. One week after withdrawal, measures were collected in the light/dark apparatus and during exposure to a cat odor. PCP decreased time spent in the lit area and number of contacts with a cat collar. PCP thus amplified rats' fear of unprotected environments and predatory threats, which seems compatible with the distorted emotional experience in human schizophrenia.
Baclofen blocks expression and sensitization of anxiety-like behavior in an animal model of repeated stress and ethanol withdrawal.	Repeated exposures to forced ethanol diets (EDs) or restraint stress sensitize anxiety-like behavior during a future ethanol withdrawal. The present investigation assessed whether pretreatment of rats with agents targeting receptor systems thought to be important in treating relapse in alcoholic patients would prevent sensitization of anxiety-like behavior.
Nicotine administration and withdrawal affect survival in systemic inflammation models.	How different regimens of nicotine administration and withdrawal affect systemic inflammation is largely unknown. We studied the effects of chronic and acute nicotine administration and of nicotine withdrawal on the outcome of aseptic and septic systemic inflammation. Male C57BL/6 mice were implanted with subcutaneous osmotic pumps (to deliver nicotine) and intrabrain telemetry probes (to measure temperature). Aseptic inflammation was induced by lipopolysaccharide (40 mg/kg ip); sepsis was induced by cecal ligation and puncture. The chronic nicotine administration group received nicotine (28 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) for 2 wk before the induction of inflammation and continued receiving nicotine until the end of the experiment; the acute nicotine administration group received saline for 2 wk and nicotine thereafter; the nicotine withdrawal group received nicotine for 2 wk and saline thereafter; and the no-nicotine group was infused with saline throughout the experiment. Compared with no nicotine, the chronic nicotine administration did not affect survival in either model of inflammation, possibly due to the development of nicotine tolerance. The acute nicotine administration increased the survival rate in aseptic inflammation from 11 to 33% (possibly by suppressing inflammation) but worsened the outcome of sepsis (possibly because the suppression of inflammation promoted microbial proliferation). Oppositely to acute nicotine, nicotine withdrawal increased the survival rate in sepsis from 18 to 40%. The effects on survival were not due to changes in body temperature. We conclude that acute nicotine administration and nicotine withdrawal affect survival in systemic inflammation and that these effects strongly depend on whether inflammation is aseptic or septic.
Opioids and the treatment of chronic pain: controversies, current status, and future directions.	Opioids have been regarded for millennia as among the most effective drugs for the treatment of pain. Their use in the management of acute severe pain and chronic pain related to advanced medical illness is considered the standard of care in most of the world. In contrast, the long-term administration of an opioid for the treatment of chronic noncancer pain continues to be controversial. Concerns related to effectiveness, safety, and abuse liability have evolved over decades, sometimes driving a more restrictive perspective and sometimes leading to a greater willingness to endorse this treatment. The past several decades in the United States have been characterized by attitudes that have shifted repeatedly in response to clinical and epidemiological observations, and events in the legal and regulatory communities. The interface between the legitimate medical use of opioids to provide analgesia and the phenomena associated with abuse and addiction continues to challenge the clinical community, leading to uncertainty about the appropriate role of these drugs in the treatment of pain. This narrative review briefly describes the neurobiology of opioids and then focuses on the complex issues at this interface between analgesia and abuse, including terminology, clinical challenges, and the potential for new agents, such as buprenorphine, to influence practice.
Anticonvulsants: pharmacotherapeutic issues in the critically ill patient.	Critically ill patients often have or develop conditions that make them susceptible to seizures and epilepsy. Treatment frequently involves the use of anti-convulsants. In order to use these effectively, the critical care nurse must be aware of the indications and controversies surrounding their use, the patho-physiologic conditions that impact on the disposition, and appropriate dosing and monitoring of these agents in the critical care setting.
Increased anxiety-like behavior of rats during amphetamine withdrawal is reversed by CRF2 receptor antagonism.	Withdrawal from psychostimulants increases anxiety states, and amphetamine-treated rats show increased CRF(2) receptors in the serotonergic cell body region, the dorsal raphe nucleus (dRN). In the current study, amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p., 14 days) pre-treated rats spent less time in open arms of the elevated plus maze compared saline pre-treated rats at both 24h or 2 weeks of withdrawal, and CRF(2) receptor antagonism (ASV-30; 2 microg/0.5 microl) within the dRN reversed the effects of amphetamine withdrawal on anxiety-like behavior. Overall, results suggest that CRF(2) receptor antagonism may be a novel pharmacological target for anxiety states during drug withdrawal.
Increased oxidative DNA damage in patients with alcohol dependence and its correlation with alcohol withdrawal severity.	Chronic and excessive alcohol consumption enhances the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and ethanol-derived free radicals. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) is a marker to estimate ROS-induced DNA damage. The study objective was to compare serum 8-OHdG levels between patients with alcohol dependence and healthy controls and to investigate the correlation between this marker and the severity of alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS).
Mephedrone: a new synthetic drug]	Mephedrone is a synthetic psychostimulant derived from cathinone belonging to the family of phenylethylamines. Sold on the Internet, it has recently emerged in France in recreational settings, and is mostly consumed by young people from the gay community and festive environment. Identified in 2008 by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction as a new drug on the market, the use of mephedrone has attracted media attention following the suspicious deaths of two young adults in Sweden and in England. Its legal aspect, ease of getting it on the Internet and cheap price coupled and an alternative-seeking to other psychostimulants make mephedrone a prime target for these populations and a source of abuse, with psychiatric and somatic complications. There is no curative pharmacological treatment approved by health authorities.
Do patients increase smoking during alcohol withdrawal?]	Alcoholics are very often addicted to tobacco. However, a study carried out in an intersectorial addictology centre with hospitalised patients receiving first-line treatment for alcohol withdrawal highlights a decrease in this consumption, notably for people benefiting from specific care management.
One case of epistaxis and alcohol withdrawal syndrome]	The patient with long history of alcohol was admitted because of intermittent right nasal bleeding for two days,and treated by nasal packing. After 3 days,the patient exhibited auditory hallucinations and immediately showed rage, mania, sweating and fever. CT examination showed calcification in the right frontal lobe, brain atrophy and sinusitis.
Long-term beta-blockade in dilated cardiomyopathy. Effects of short- and long-term metoprolol treatment followed by withdrawal and readministration of metoprolol.	To evaluate the short- and long-term effects of beta-adrenergic blockade (metoprolol) as well as the reaction to withdrawal and readministration of metoprolol in severe heart failure, 33 patients (25 men and eight women; mean age, 47.6 +/- 14.0 years) with dilated cardiomyopathy were studied by right and left heart catheterization, right ventricular biopsy, two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography, and external pulse recordings. Twenty-six of 33 patients survived more than 6 months, and 24 of the 26 patients improved their functional class (from mean 3.3 to 1.8, p less than 0.0001). These 24 patients were subjected to withdrawal of metoprolol until the number of symptoms increased and deterioration occurred as observed noninvasively (group 1, n = 16), whereas the eight patients did not deteriorate during a 12-month period (group 2). During long-term treatment with metoprolol, there was an increase in ejection fraction from 0.24 to 0.42 (p less than 0.0001), whereas there was a decrease in the left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic dimension (from 7.3 to 6.4 cm, p less than 0.0001), in the grade of mitral regurgitation (from 1.7 to 0.4, p less than 0.0001), and in the grade of tricuspid regurgitation (from 0.6 to 0.05, p less than 0.007). There was a decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure (from 23.8 to 10.7 mm Hg, p less than 0.0001), LV end-diastolic pressure (from 24.1 to 13.4 mm Hg, p less than 0.002), and systolic vascular resistance (from 1,782 to 1,499 dynes/sec/cm, p less than 0.04). There was an increase in systolic blood pressure (from 116 to 132 mm Hg, p less than 0.003), cardiac index (from 2.17 to 2.58 l/min/m2, p less than 0.005), and LV stroke work index (from 31 to 65 g.m/m2, p less than 0.0001). During withdrawal of metoprolol, the heart rate and left atrial dimension increased (p less than 0.0001), whereas ejection fraction decreased (p less than 0.0001). The 12 (of 16) patients in group 1 who survived the withdrawal period had metoprolol readministered, and subsequently, ejection fraction increased (from 0.23 to 0.33, p less than 0.002). Patients had a low number of ventricular beta-adrenergic receptors compared with healthy control subjects (30.3 +/- 2.9 vs. 97.4 +/- 8.7 fmol/mg protein, p less than 0.001), but long-term treatment with metoprolol caused a moderate up-regulation (from 30.3 +/- 2.9 to 49.0 +/- 7.1 fmol/mg protein, p less than 0.05), which may facilitate a more normal response to sympathetic stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ethanol withdrawal syndrome in the pathogenesis of alcoholic heart damage]	In an ultrastructural and functional study of rat hearts, some animals had received liquid food containing ethanol (36.1% of total caloric intake) for 14 weeks (group 1); in half of the rats (group 2), ethanol-containing diet was at regular intervals replaced by an alcohol-free diet (five three-day cycles). Animals on dry forage and water or ethanol-free liquid diet were taken as controls. The study has suggested that recurrent ethanol abstinence syndrome may be a leading pathogenetic factor of alcoholic heart damage.
An NMR study of cerebral oedema and its biological correlates during withdrawal from alcohol.	Five chronic alcoholic patients admitted for detoxification were studied. During the first 24-48 hr of abstinence raised levels of cerebral water (as measured by NMR), vasopressin, renin and supine aldosterone were recorded. Initial vasopressin concentration was correlated (r = 0.88, P less than 0.05) with alcohol consumption in the week prior to admission and was over three times higher in the patients measured after 24-48 hr as compared to less than 24 hr. After one week only supine aldosterone was still raised (P less than 0.05). The results suggest that cerebral oedema occurs during the early stages of abstinence. The role of these changes in the aetiology of withdrawal symptoms, delirium tremens and brain damage remains to be elucidated.
Alcohol withdrawal seizures.	Seizures that occur in relation to alcohol withdrawal, following a period of prolonged intoxication in serious alcoholics, constitute a special syndrome with important prognostic and therapeutic implications. Inpatient management is desirable to eliminate other causes of seizures that occur for the first time in adult life and because such patients are at substantial risk for additional seizures and the development of delirium tremens. Drug therapy with benodiazepines may be effective during the withdrawal period but long-term anticonvulsant treatment is of no value.
Pathogenetic role of the abstinence syndrome in the development of alcoholic encephalopathy (morpho-immunological research)]	In 219 male rats receiving for 8 months 10% ethanol solution instead of water either constantly or with multiple periods of discontinuation, the authors studied the morphological and immunological parameters in the period of the development of alcoholic encephalopathy and abstinence syndrome. Examination of the rat brain revealed chronic hemodynamic disorders and dystrophic-destructive changes in parenchymatous elements with superimposition of acute changes in the early stage of abstinence. Acute changes in the brain were attended by considerable disturbance of protein metabolism in neurons expressed in an altered rate of 3H-leucin inclusion. The development of acute morphological alterations in the brain tissue during abstinence was accompanied by the appearance of anticerebral antibodies in the blood of the animals. The obtained results represent new quantitative data on metabolic disorders of neuronal proteins and new immunologic data related to experimental alcoholic encephalopathy at different stages of abstinence. This evidence contributes to the understanding of the pathogenetic role of abstinence in the development of alcoholic encephalopathy.
Sudden unexpected death in infants of narcotic-dependent mothers.	During the study years 1972--1974, 8 of 383 infants born to mothers with known narcotic dependency during pregnancy died unexpectedly within the first 4 mth of life; autopsies were compatible with the diagnosis of SIDS. This incidence of SIDS was 5.5 times that in our hospital populations (P < 0.001) and 8.7 times that of our borough within New York City (P < 0.001). Similar factors, such as sex ratio, age at time of death, and diurnal and seasonal variations suggest that narcotic-associated sudden death may be a relevant study model for sudden unexpected death in the general population. Intrauterine exposure to narcotics and its subsequent effect on central control of respiration in the young infant may be the underlying mechanism of drug related SIDS.
Evaluation of blood pressure during early alcohol withdrawal.	Ninety-five patients undergoing early alcohol withdrawal were observed for a five-day period in a non-hospital facility to evaluate the natural history of blood pressure change during this period. Patients under 30 years old developed a significant increase in systolic pressure on the second abstinent day, decreasing a mean of 10 mm Hg by the fourth abstinent day. With increasing age there was a progressively smaller rise in systolic pressure. Multivariate analysis showed a history of hypertension, delirium tremens, seizures, initial pulse, race, and sex not to be predictive of blood pressure change. Diastolic pressure was unaffected. Etiology of this difference requires further study. There were no hypertensive complications in this group. Patients undergoing early withdrawal need not be treated for changes in blood pressure without evidence of end organ damage or severe hypertension.
Increased susceptibility to audiogenic seizures following withdrawal of progesterone.	This investigation was performed to verify a previous hypothesis which correlates the catamenial seizures with the stoppage of progesterone secretion. White rats from a Wistar strain were tested with an electric bell. Thirty-five animals refractory to the acoustic stimulus were selected for the experiment. Each animal received 9 daily injections with progesterone, 5 mgr/day. The animals were tested with the acoustic stimulus after the 5th and the 9th injections, 24 hours after the administration of the last dose. Audiogenic seizures were obtained in 29.4% of the rats tested after 5 injections and in 40.0% of the rats tested after the 9th injection. The increased seizure susceptibility lasted 3-8 days after the hormone withdrawal. In conclusion, the withdrawal of high doses of progesterone exerts a seizure-activating effect.
Zolpidem: clinical experience in psychiatric settings.	Zolpidem, a new short-acting non benzodiazepine hypnotic with high selectivity for benzodiazepine--1/Omega-I receptors and with lack of tolerance and physical dependence in animal models and lack of withdrawal phenomena even after up to 180 days treatment has recently been introduced. Data from clinical trials show a comparable effectiveness in inducing and maintaining sleep to comparative drugs (benzodiazepines) and besides that, it seems to preserve--even improve sleep-architecture and lastly preserve daytime wakefulness. Very few studies have been conducted in psychiatric patients, but also in this group effectiveness has been shown, and from daily clinical experience, this picture seems to hold. It must be remembered, that psychiatric patients have a high level of symptomatic benzodiazepine and/or alcohol misuse disposing to withdrawal and abstinence states in which zolpidem is less effective presumedly reflecting its selectivity. Having passed the withdrawal states, zolpidem can be used as an effective and safe hypnotic.
Case study: neuroleptic withdrawal dyskinesia exacerbated by ongoing stimulant treatment.	Risk factors for neuroleptic withdrawal dyskinesia in children have not been well studied. The authors present a case of a child who had been treated with a combination of neuroleptics and stimulants for nonpsychotic aggressive behavior. A severe withdrawal dyskinesia precipitated by neuroleptic tapering was ameliorated by discontinuation of the psycho-stimulant. Although stimulants have been reported to increase certain involuntary movement disorders, this is the first known report of psychostimulant exacerbation of withdrawal dyskinesia.
Withdrawal after narcotic therapy: a survey of neonatal and pediatric clinicians.	Pharmacists at the 1995 American College of Clinical Pharmacy Pediatric Practice and Research Network meeting volunteered to act as coordinators at their sites and survey pediatric and neonatal nurses, pharmacists, and physicians regarding dependency in neonatal and pediatric patients after therapeutic administration of narcotics. Thirteen (60%) of 21 coordinators returned 244 surveys. Primary symptoms of withdrawal reported by clinicians were agitation (100%), irritability (100%), inconsolability (100%), crying (99%), tremors (98%), high heart rate (98%), fidgets (98%), high blood pressure (97%), less sleep (96%), and sweating (94%). Most clinicians considered narcotic withdrawal to be a problem (74%) that should be treated (87%). A dependency scale is being developed and will include symptoms reported by more than 75% of respondents.
