Arthroscopic tibio-talar arthrodesis: limitations and indications in 20 patients]	The purpose of this study was to present the clinical and radiological outcome in 20 patients who underwent arthroscopic tibiotalar arthrodesis.
Calcaneus fractures. Open reduction and internal fixation]	Critical analysis of the medium-term results of open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) of displaced intra-articular calcaneus fractures with a standardized protocol in a greater patient cohort.
Subtalar joint arthroereisis with SILASTIC silicone sphere: a retrospective study.	Many authors have discussed the various surgical techniques of subtalar joint arthroereisis in the treatment of flexible flatfoot. Some authors advocate the use of bone grafts in the sinus tarsi to limit excessive subtalar joint pronation, while others advocate the use of endoprosthetic devices. These authors will present a retrospective study of subtalar joint arthroereisis utilizing a SILASTIC silicone sphere technique devised by the senior authors.
The effect of pulsed electromagnetic fields on hindfoot arthrodesis: a prospective study.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of pulsed electromagnetic fields in a consecutive series of 64 patients undergoing hindfoot arthrodesis (144 joints). All patients who underwent elective triple/subtalar arthrodesis were randomized into control and pulsed electromagnetic field study groups. Subjects in the study group had an external pulsed electromagnetic fields device applied over the cast for 12 hours a day. Radiographs were taken pre- and postoperatively until radiographic union occurred. A senior musculoskeletal radiologist, blinded to the treatment scheme, evaluated the radiographic parameters. The average time to radiographic union in the control group was 14.5 weeks in 33 primary subtalar arthrodeses. There were 4 nonunions. The study group consisted of 22 primary subtalar arthrodeses and 5 revisions. The average time to radiographic union was 12.9 weeks (P =.136). The average time to fusion of the talonavicular joint in the control group was 17.6 weeks in 19 primary procedures. In the pulsed electromagnetic fields group of 20 primary and 3 revision talonavicular arthrodeses, the average time to radiographic fusion was 12.2 weeks (P =.003). For the 21 calcaneocuboid arthrodeses in control group, the average time to radiographic fusion was 17.7 weeks; it was 13.1 weeks (P =.010) for the 19 fusions in the study group. This study suggests that, if all parameters are equal, the adjunctive use of a pulsed electromagnetic field in elective hindfoot arthrodesis may increase the rate and speed of radiographic union of these joints.
Revision of malaligned triple arthrodesis: a case report.	Malalignment of a triple arthrodesis can pose significant challenges to the foot and ankle surgeon. Lack of a plantigrade foot will not be well tolerated by the patient and will often require revision of the original surgery. This article presents a review of the treatment algorithm used to address this unique problem. A case study based on this approach is also presented.
Pantalar arthrodesis.	Pantalar arthrodesis is a demanding procedure that serves a useful purpose for stabilization of the ankle, rearfoot, and midfoot. These fusions should be recognized as salvage procedures in the treatment of unstable and debilitating conditions as a result of severe degenerative joint disease, rheumatoid arthritis, neuropathic joint destruction, and paralytic or flail extremity dysfunction. As with all salvage-type procedures, patient and physician expectations must be the same to afford an acceptable and functional postoperative result.
Subtalar joint arthrodesis using a single lag screw.	This study tested the hypotheses that fusing the subtalar joint with a single lag screw from the posteroinferior calcaneus to the anterior talar neck is an effective technique and that factors affecting the time to fusion can be identified.
Subtalar joint arthrodesis.	Forty patients (12 men and 28 women) treated with isolated subtalar joint arthrodesis were retrospectively reviewed. The average patient age was 50 years (range, 21-76 years). Preoperative diagnoses included posterior tibial tendon dysfunction, post-traumatic arthritis, nontraumatic arthritis, and subtalar joint middle facet coalition. The average follow-up was 15 months (range, 12-74 months). Subjective postoperative questionnaire results were classified as satisfied (n = 32), satisfied but with reservations (n = 4), or dissatisfied (n = 4). Eighty-three percent of the patients (n = 33) stated that they would undergo the procedure again. Minor complications (those that resolved with nonoperative treatment) occurred in 55% of the patients. However, the major complication rate was only 12.5%. This study showed no statistical correlation between the preoperative diagnosis and the postoperative outcome. Our results also suggested that the prevalence of complications is slightly higher than in previous reports. Isolated subtalar joint arthrodesis is an effective treatment for pain and deformity of the rearfoot.
Combined subtalar and ankle arthritis.	Combined ankle and subtalar arthritis is a difficult problem for which there are varied solutions. Each solution has its advantages and disadvantages. Treatment must be specifically tailored to the patient's needs, comorbidities, and expectations. Because of the complicated nature of this condition and its treatment, complications are common and should be anticipated.
A comprehensive review of subtalar arthrodesis.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of a series of subtalar arthrodeses done by a single surgeon using a standard technique.
Technique and early experience with posterior arthroscopic subtalar arthrodesis.	Subtalar arthrodesis is a reliable procedure for pain relief and improved function in patients with isolated subtalar arthritis. Arthroscopic subtalar arthrodesis (ASTA) was designed to improve upon traditional methods by using a minimally invasive technique. However, posterior arthroscopic subtalar arthrodesis (PASTA) has not been described. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the early results of PASTA.
Arthroscopic-assisted lateral ligamentous reconstruction in combined ankle and subtalar instability.	We describe an arthroscopic technique by which to reconstruct both the calcaneofibular ligament and anterior talofibular ligament anatomically. The ankle joint is examined through the anteromedial portal and a lateral portal close to the talar insertion of the anterior talofibular ligament. The subtalar joint is examined through the anterolateral portal and the middle portal. Associated intra-articular pathology (e.g., osteochondral defect) is evaluated and addressed. The calcaneofibular ligament is an extracapsular structure that can be examined arthroscopically through the anterolateral portal in the extra-articular plane. The peroneal tendon sheath is stripped with a small periosteal elevator through the middle subtalar portal, and the calcaneal insertion of the calcaneofibular ligament is identified. The plantaris tendon is identified and freed through multiple small wounds at the medial calf, and the tendon is cut proximally and retrieved to its calcaneal insertion. A calcaneal bone tunnel (tunnel 1) is created between the plantaris tendon and the calcaneofibular ligament insertions by use of a 3.5-mm drill bit. The tendon graft is then looped onto a suture, and the suture is passed through the tunnel to the calcaneofibular ligament insertion and retrieved to the middle subtalar portal. Through the anterolateral subtalar portal, the fibular insertion of the calcaneofibular ligament is identified. Another bone tunnel is created from this point to the posterior edge of the fibula (tunnel 2) with a 3.5-mm drill through the middle subtalar portal. The fibular insertion of the anterior talofibular ligament is identified on ankle arthroscopy. Tunnel 3 is created from this point to the exit point of tunnel 2 through the lateral ankle portal. The tendon graft is retrieved to the lateral ankle joints through the second and third tunnels and is pierced through the lateral ankle capsule and course from intracapsular to extracapsular. The tendon graft loop is anchored to the insertion point of the anterior talofibular ligament by a 4.0-mm cancellous screw with a spiked washer. The tendon graft is tensioned by pulling the free end of the tendon graft while tightening the screw. The free end of the tendon graft and the stay stitch are sutured to surrounding soft tissue or anchored with another 4.0-mm cancellous screw and spiked washer. The procedure is then completed, and a short leg cast is applied. The patient is advised to perform non-weight-bearing walking for 6 weeks.
Primary subtalar joint arthrodesis with internal and external fixation for the repair of a diabetic comminuted calcaneal fracture.	Comminuted, intra-articular calcaneal fractures can cause severe lower extremity impairment and have devastating effects on a patient's well being. Diabetes is a multisystem process that may cause neuropathy and loss of protective sensation further complicating the prognosis. Not all calcaneal fractures are created equal and when considering the patient's overall presentation and extent of injury, the combined approach of internal and external fixation for fracture reduction may be beneficial for restoration of anatomic alignment and function.
Functional outcome after percutaneous tendo-Achilles lengthening.	Percutaneous tendo-Achilles lengthening (PTAL) is a common procedure performed as an adjunct to other procedures that are used to treat a variety of foot and ankle disorders. Despite the widespread use of PTAL, the only literature to substantiate its efficacy comes from the treatment of forefoot ulceration in diabetics. The complications of the procedure include pain along the Achilles tendon, difficulty using stairs, weakness with toe-off, inadvertent complete tenotomy, and cosmetic appearance. We sought to investigate the functional outcomes specific to PTAL when performed in tandem with triple arthrodesis and subtalar fusion.
Minimally invasive deltoid ligament reconstruction for stage IV flatfoot deformity.	Stage IV is the most advanced form of acquired adult flatfoot deformity (AAFD). It is present when valgus tibiotalar angulation occurs with foot deformities associated with AAFD. Tibiotalocalcaneal or pantalar fusion has been the gold standard for treatment of Stage IV AAFD. However, in some of these patients the tibiotalar deformity is correctable. We sought to determine whether minimally invasive deltoid ligament reconstruction in conjunction with triple arthrodesis (MIDLR/Triple) allows tibiotalar joint sparing surgical therapy in Stage IV-A AAFD patients.
Considerations of a midline posterior approach to the ankle and subtalar joints.	The standard incisional approaches for ankle and subtalar joint surgery include the medial, lateral, or anterior. However, in patients with a history of traumatic injuries or previous surgery, in which the soft tissues of the foot and ankle have been compromised, a direct midline posterior approach might be preferable. The approach offers unparalleled exposure, provides excellent frontal plane visualization, and reduces the risk of vascular compromise by preserving the surrounding angiosomes. We report on 2 separate cases in which a midline posterior approach to the ankle and subtalar joints was used successfully for fusion procedures of the tibiocalcaneal and subtalar joints.
Subtalar arthroereisis and its role in pediatric and adult population.	Subtalar joint arthroereisis is a surgical procedure that addresses symptomatic flexible flatfoot deformities using an extraarticular implant within the sinus tarsi. Three groups of implants have been developed for this procedure: self-locking wedges, axis-altering devices, and impact-blocking devices. The self-locking wedge implants are the focus of this article, relative to its use, limitations, and controversies in the pediatric and adult population.
Results of extra-articular subtalar arthrodesis in children with cerebral palsy.	Grice-Green extra-articular subtalar arthrodesis is considered to be a valid surgical method which improves foot alignment in patients with spastic pes planovalgus deformity. The purpose of the present study was to examine the long-term results of Grice-Green procedure and whether it can achieve significant correction of each of the components of pes planovalgus deformity.
Precision of targeting device for subtalar screw placement.	When performing subtalar arthrodesis, proper screw placement is fundamental to provide primary stability and to help ensure bone healing. In inexperienced hands this step can be time-consuming and exposes surgeons and patients to radiation. By means of a targeting device these potential drawbacks and dangers could be reduced. It was hypothesized that a specifically designed targeting device would reduce radiation exposure while improving screw placement when compared with the conventional "free-hand'' method.
Multimodal analgesia therapy reduces length of hospitalization in patients undergoing fusions of the ankle and hindfoot.	Multimodal postoperative analgesia employs multiple medications given perioperatively to block the generation and perception of pain at different points in the nociceptive pathway. This retrospective study examines its effect on the length of stay for patients undergoing hindfoot and ankle fusions.
The complete subtalar release in clubfeet.	CSTR is a release of the subtalar joint and the talonavicular joint that corrects calcaneal rotation, a major deformity of the clubfoot, as well as the other major deformities of the midfoot and hindfoot. Indications for the CSTR are presented. These include failure of conservative treatment or unsatisfactory surgical results with residual varus deformity, and a foot longer than 8 cm. Contraindications to CSTR include radiographic evidence of a flat-top talus and uncorrected anterior ankle contractures. The Cincinnati incision, which permits excellent visualization of all the relevant structures and good cosmesis, is described and compared with other approaches. The technique of the CSTR is described in detail. Key steps include marking the knee for later alignment with the foot (a major advantage of this procedure), superficial medial dissection, posterior dissection, lateral dissection, and deep medial dissection. Technical details and criteria for evaluation are provided. Four supplemental procedures and their indications are described. These include metatarsal osteotomy, calcaneocuboid capsulotomy, calcaneal wedge osteotomy, and plantar release. Procedures for pinning and casting are described, with special attention to accuracy of realigning the foot and measures for avoiding avascular necrosis and other complications. The importance of intraoperative radiographs is presented, together with methods for obtaining and assessing these films to assure that surgical correction is complete. It is imperative that these films be taken before tendon repair or wound closure so that pinning procedures can be repeated, if necessary.
Personal experience with the Grice operation in patients with cerebral palsy]	The authors give an account of Grice's operation, i.e. extraarticular, talocalcaneal arthrodesis as one of the basic operations in infantile cerebral palsy in children and adolescents which can be used in the spastic as well as paretic form of the disease. It is valuable as after reposition it stabilizes the position of tarsal bone sub talo. The 65 operations by Grice's method in infantile cerebral palsy with very favourable results (failure or partial failure in five operations, i.e. 9.2%) and the authors' experience with this operations also in other neurogenic disorders indicates that the operation is justified in children and adolescents. It may be performed also in adults. According to the authors' experience this operation does not lead during subsequent development to deformities of the sole and does not merely substitute the well known triple arthrodesis sub talo. Its application is much wider. It can be combined with other surgical procedures on soft parts as well as bones, in particular with Young's operation and with temporary fixation of tarsal bones with Kirschner wires after reposition.
