Twin-arginine translocation pathway in Streptomyces lividans.	The recently discovered bacterial twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway was investigated in Streptomyces lividans, a gram-positive organism with a high secretion capacity. The presence of one tatC and two hcf106 homologs in the S. lividans genome together with the several precursor proteins with a twin-arginine motif in their signal peptide suggested the presence of the twin-arginine translocation pathway in the S. lividans secretome. To demonstrate its functionality, a tatC deletion mutant was constructed. This mutation impaired the translocation of the Streptomyces antibioticus tyrosinase, a protein that forms a complex with its transactivator protein before export. Also the chimeric construct pre-TorA-23K, known to be exclusively secreted via the Tat pathway in Escherichia coli, could be translocated in wild-type S. lividans but not in the tatC mutant. In contrast, the secretion of the Sec-dependent S. lividans subtilisin inhibitor was not affected. This study therefore demonstrates that also in general in Streptomyces spp. the Tat pathway is functional. Moreover, this Tat pathway can translocate folded proteins, and the E. coli TorA signal peptide can direct Tat-dependent transport in S. lividans.
Directed coevolution of stability and catalytic activity in calcium-free subtilisin.	We have coevolved high activity and hyperstability in subtilisin by sequentially randomizing 12 amino acid positions in calcium-free subtilisin. The optimal amino acid for each randomized site was chosen based on stability and catalytic properties and became the parent clone for the next round of mutagenesis. Together, the 12 selected mutations increased the half-life of calcium-free subtilisin at elevated temperature by 15,000-fold. The catalytic properties of the mutants were examined against a range of substrates. In general, only mutations occurring at or near the substrate-binding surface have measurable effects on catalytic constants. No direct influence of stability on catalytic properties was observed. A high-stability mutant, Sbt140, was a more efficient enzyme in terms of k(cat)/K(m) than a commercial version of subtilisin across a range of substrates but had a lower k(cat) against tight-binding substrates. The reason for this behavior was discerned by examining microscopic rate constants for the hydrolysis of a tight-binding peptide substrate. Burst kinetics were observed for this substrate, indicating that acylation is not rate-limiting. Although acylation occurs at the rate of substrate binding, k(cat) is attenuated by the slow release of the N-terminal product. Natural evolution appears to have optimized catalytic activity against a range of sequences by achieving a balance between substrate binding and the rate of release of the N-terminal product.
Chymotrypsin and trypsin inhibitor isolated from potato tubers]	Potato Kunitz-type chymotrypsin inhibitor (PKCI-23) was isolated from potato tubers (Solanum tuberosum L., Zhukov's Jubilee breed) and purified to a homogenous state. The protein was purified by gel-filtration chromatography and ion-exchange chromatography using Sephadex G-75 and CM-Sepharose CL-6B, respectively. PKCI-23 protein has been shown to inhibit both chymotrypsin and trypsin with equal efficacy, forming equimolar complexes with these enzymes. However, much weaker inhibitory effect of PKCI-23 has been observed for Carlsberg subtilisin. The N-terminal 20 amino acid sequence of PKCI-23 has been sequenced. PKCI-23 has been shown to suppress, with different efficacy, the growth and development of pathogenic microorganisms Fusarium culmorum (Wm. G. Sm.) Sacc. and Phytophtora infestans (Mont.) de Bary that infect potato.
PmSERPIN3 from black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon is capable of controlling the proPO system.	Serpin or serine proteinase inhibitor is a family of protease inhibitors that are involved in controlling the proteolytic cascade in various biological processes. In shrimp, several serpins have been identified but only a few have been characterized. Herein, the PmSERPIN3 gene identified from Penaeus monodon EST database was studied. By using the 5'- and 3'-Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends (RACE) techniques, the full-length of PmSERPIN3 cDNA was obtained. The cDNA contained an open reading frame of 1233 bp encoding for 410 amino acid residue protein. Genome sequence analysis revealed that the PmSERPIN3 was an intronless gene. RT-PCR analysis revealed that it was constitutively expressed in all developmental stages, all shrimp tissues tested, and upon pathogen infections. The recombinant mature PmSERPIN3 protein (rPmSERPIN3) produced in Escherichia coli exhibited inhibitory activity against subtilisin. The rPmSERPIN3 also inhibited the shrimp prophenoloxidase system activation in vitro. Injecting the rPmSERPIN3 along with Vibrio harveyi into the shrimp decreased the clearance rate of bacteria in the hemolymph. Potentially, the PmSERPIN3 functions as a regulator of the proPO activating system.
