Tau exon 10 +16 mutation FTDP-17 presenting clinically as sporadic young onset PSP.	The authors describe a case of clinically diagnosed young onset progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) with symptom onset at 40 years of age and no family history of neurodegenerative disease. There was no history of falls during the first year of symptoms. Genetic analysis identified this patient as having a tau exon 10 +16 mutation (MAPT, IVS10, C-U, +16). Neuropathologic examination confirmed the genetic diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia. An age at onset younger than 50 years combined with the absence of early falls may indicate the possibility of a tau mutation in clinically diagnosed PSP.
Microelectrode recording revealing a somatotopic body map in the subthalamic nucleus in humans with Parkinson disease.	The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a key structure for motor control through the basal ganglia. The aim of this study was to show that the STN in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) has a somatotopic organization similar to that in nonhuman primates.
Functional neurosurgery in the MRI environment.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of microelectrode recording, electrical stimulation, and electrode position checking during functional neurosurgical procedures (DBS, lesion) in the interventional magnetic resonance imaging (iMRI) environment.
Targeting the subthalamic nucleus for deep brain stimulation: technical approach and fusion of pre- and postoperative MR images to define accuracy of lead placement.	To define the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and intraoperative electrophysiological recording in targeting the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in Parkinson's disease and to determine accuracy of electrode placement.
Altered subthalamo-pallidal synchronisation in parkinsonian dyskinesias.	The aim of this work was to study the role of subthalamo-pallidal synchronisation in the pathophysiology of dyskinesias. We recorded local field potentials (LFPs) in a patient with Parkinson's disease and left surgery induced dyskinesias with double, bilateral deep brain stimulation electrode implants in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the globus pallidus internus (GPi). Synchronisation was studied through coherence analysis. In the nuclei contralateral to the dyskinetic side of the body there was decreased STN-GPi coherence in the high beta range (20-30 Hz) and an enhanced coherence at low frequencies (<10 Hz). Despite the possible limitations arising from single-case observations, our findings suggest that parkinsonian dyskinesias are related to altered synchronisation between different structures of the basal ganglia. Firing abnormalities within individual basal ganglia nuclei are probably not enough to account for the complex balance between hypokinetic and hyperkinetic symptoms in human parkinsonian dyskinesias and altered interactions between nuclei should also be considered.
Rapid subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation lead placement utilising CT/MRI fusion, microelectrode recording and test stimulation.	Subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) has become an established treatment strategy for patients with medically refractory Parkinson's disease (PD). There are however numerous strategies employed for STN lead placement. Variations include method of STN localisation, use of microelectrode recording, number of microelectrode recording passes and time taken for the procedure. We describe a relatively simple and rapid technique of STN lead placement utilising CT/ MRI image fusion, microelectrode recording and test stimulation. The first 58 consecutive patients undergoing STN DBS were assessed pre- and post-operatively. UPDRS scores, medication use and any surgical complication were assessed. Bilateral STN DBS was an efficacious treatment option for medically refractory PD. We have described a technique which can be performed with effect and low morbidity, and in a time which is well tolerated by patients.
Variability of the subthalamic nucleus: the case for direct MRI guided targeting.	Because of concerns about direct visualization of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), many functional neurosurgeons continue to rely on atlas-based coordinates to reach this target. T2-weighted MRI does allow direct visualisation of the STN. In order to compare the coordinates of the target point within the visualised STN with those obtained from standard brain atlases, the preoperative stereotactic T2-weighted MRI used to implant 55 deep brain stimulation electrodes in the visualised STN of 29 consecutive patients with Parkinson's disease treated in two European centres were studied. The coordinates of the directly visualised STN were significantly different from those of the atlas target. Variability of the position of the STN may render direct visualisation a more accurate means of targeting this nucleus.
Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation: accurate axonal threshold prediction with diffusion tensor based electric field models.	Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become the therapy of choice for medically intractable Parkinson's Disease. However, the physiological mechanisms responsible for the therapeutic effects of DBS remain unknown, and quantitative understanding of the interaction between the electric field generated by DBS and the underlying neural tissue is lacking. Recently our group has developed various computational techniques to study the neural response to DBS. The goal of this study was to incrementally incorporate increasing levels of complexity into our computer models of STN DBS and address activation of the corticospinal tract (CST). Our model system was customized to an STN DBS patient and CST thresholds were calculated with electric field models that ranged from an electrostatic, homogeneous, isotropic model to one that explicitly incorporated the capacitance of the electrode-tissue interface, tissue encapsulation of the electrode, and diffusion-tensor based 3D tissue anisotropy and inhomogeneity. The model predictions were compared to clinical CST thresholds defined from electromyographic recordings from eight muscle groups in the arm and leg of the STN DBS patient. Coupled evaluation of the model and clinical data showed that accurate prediction of axonal thresholds required our most detailed model. In addition, the simplifications and assumptions typically utilized in neurostimulation models substantially overestimate neural activation.
Subthalamic neuronal firing in obsessive-compulsive disorder and Parkinson disease.	Although electrophysiologic dysfunction of the subthalamic nucleus is putative, deep brain stimulation of this structure has recently been reported to improve obsessions and compulsions. In Parkinson disease, sensorimotor subthalamic neurons display high-frequency burst firing, which is considered as an electrophysiologic signature of motor loop dysfunction. We addressed whether such neuronal dysfunction of the subthalamic nucleus also exists in the nonmotor loops involved in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.
MR image registration based on an improved maximum mutual information]	Medical image registration is a key step of image processing and analysis and the first problem of medical image fusion to be solved. In this paper, we focus on magnetic resonance images registration for preoperative and postoperative of deep brain stimulation for the Parkinson's disease. First of all, mutual distance is brought into the mutual information in this paper, realize the two groups of MR slices (for both preoperative and postoperative) mapping, and then 3D images are reconstructed from the corresponding MR slices. Finally, we use Powell algorithm to register 3D images. After the 3D images is registered, we can analyze the relative position between planted electrode (postoperative) and the subthalamic nucleus (preoperative), and measure the quality of deep brain stimulation scientifically.
Aging and inhibitory control of action: cortico-subthalamic connection strength predicts stopping performance.	Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) studies in humans have shown that seniors exhibit reduced white matter integrity compared with young adults, with the most pronounced change occurring in frontal white matter. It is generally assumed that this structural deterioration underlies inhibitory control deficits in old age, but specific evidence from a structural neuroscience perspective is lacking. Cognitive action control is thought to rely on an interconnected network consisting of right inferior frontal cortex (r-IFC), pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA), and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Here we performed probabilistic DWI tractography to delineate this cognitive control network and had the same individuals (20 young, 20 older adults) perform a task probing both response inhibition and action reprogramming. We hypothesized that structural integrity (fractional anisotropy) and connection strength within this network would be predictive of individual and age-related differences in task performance. We show that the integrity of r-IFC white matter is an age-independent predictor of stop-signal reaction time (SSRT). We further provide evidence that the integrity of white matter projecting to STN predicts both outright stopping (SSRT) and transient braking of response initiation to buy time for action reprogramming (stopping interference effects). These associations remain even after controlling for Go task performance, demonstrating specificity to the Stop component of this task. Finally, a multiple regression analysis reveals bilateral preSMA-STN tract strength as a significant predictor of SSRT in older adults. Our data link age-related decline in inhibitory control with structural decline of STN projections.
Parameter identification for a local field potential driven model of the Parkinsonian subthalamic nucleus spike activity.	Several models, with various degrees of complexity have been proposed to model the neuronal activity from different parts of the human brain. We have shown before that various modeling approaches, including a Hammerstein-Wiener (H-W) model, can be used to predict the spike trains from a deep nucleus, the subthalamic nucleus, using the underlying local field potentials. In this article, we present, in depth, the various choices one has to make, and the limitations that they introduce, during the H-W model parameter identification process. From a segment of the recorded data, which contains information about the spike times of a single neuron, we identify and extract the model parameters. We then use those parameters to numerically simulate the spike timing, the rhythm and the inter-spike intervals for the rest of the recording. To assess how well the model fits to the measured data we combine measures of spike train synchrony, namely the Victor-Purpura distance and the Gaussian similarity measure, with time-scale independent train distances. We show that a wise combination of metrics results in models that predict the spikes with temporal accuracy ranging, on average, from 53% to more than 80%, depending on the number of the neurons' spikes recorded. The model's prediction is adequate for estimating accurately the spike rhythm. Quantitative results establish the model's validity as a simple yet biologically plausible model of the spike activity recorded from a deep nucleus inside the human brain.
Optogenetic inactivation of the subthalamic nucleus improves forelimb akinesia in a rat model of Parkinson disease.	The inhibition of neuronal activity by electrical deep brain stimulation is one of the mechanisms explaining the therapeutic effects in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) but cannot specifically activate or inactivate different types of neurons. Recently, a new technology based on optogenetics has been developed to modulate the activity of specific neurons. However, the therapeutic effects of optical inactivation in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) have not been fully investigated.
