Sinus tarsi syndrome.	The sinus tarsi syndrome is predominately a clinical diagnosis deduced through the use of physical examination and history. However, the presumed diagnosis can be corroborated through the use of imaging studies, predominately magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging is an indispensable tool in the evaluation of musculoskeletal pathology, including the sinus tarsi syndrome.
The effect of ankle injury on subtalar motion.	Injuries to the medial and lateral ankle ligaments have been implicated in subtalar joint instability. Lateral injury increased subtalar joint varus and anterior translation, while deltoid injury increased external rotation and valgus in studies using static, non-physiologic testing.
The association between subtalar joint motion and outcome satisfaction in patients with displaced intraarticular calcaneal fractures.	There is a paucity of literature on the effect of calcaneal fractures on subtalar joint motion and patient satisfaction. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between subtalar joint motion and outcome satisfaction in patients who had displaced intraarticular calcaneal fractures. The design of this study was a retrospective analysis from a randomized, controlled clinical trial. The setting was a Level I trauma center.
Effects of rearfoot-controlling orthotic treatment on dorsiflexion of the hallux in feet with abnormal subtalar pronation: a preliminary report.	The aim of this study was to determine whether the treatment of abnormal subtalar pronation restores functional (as opposed to structural) limited dorsiflexion of the first metatarsophalangeal joint (functional hallux limitus). We studied 16 feet of eight individuals with abnormal subtalar pronation. Orthoses were made for all of the feet, and hallux dorsiflexion was measured during weightbearing. Each patient was unshod without the orthosis, unshod with the orthosis fitted on the same day, and unshod with the orthosis fitted approximately 5 months later. The results suggest that in functional hallux limitus caused by abnormal subtalar pronation, hallux dorsiflexion will gradually be restored by the use of foot orthoses to control the abnormal subtalar pronation.
Effects of ankle-foot orthoses on ankle and foot kinematics in patients with subtalar osteoarthritis.	To determine whether different foot orthoses have a similar effect on foot kinematics in subjects with subtalar osteoarthritis (OA) when walking on various ground conditions.
A study of function and residual joint stiffness after functional bracing of tibial shaft fractures.	Ninety-eight diaphyseal tibial fractures were treated with custom made functional braces in 97 patients older than 14 years of age. The average follow-up period was 1.86 years, and 53 patients had more than two years' evaluation (average, 2.83 years). The majority of the patients did not have full range of movement in the ankle and subtalar joints when the brace was removed after fracture healing. Although the stiffness decreased with time, a significant number of patients were left with residual joint stiffness. At an average follow-up period of 1.86 years, 68.4% of the patients had normal ankle motion and 60% had normal inversion and eversion of the hindfoot. In patients with more than two years' evaluation, 75.5% had normal ankle movement and 71.1% had normal inversion and eversion of the foot. In the knee joint, the incidence of residual joint stiffness was small and the amount of stiffness was clinically insignificant. Patients with an abnormal walking pattern after fracture healing had a high incidence of ankle and subtalar joint stiffness.
Medial stress syndrome in military conscripts]	Thirty-two Danish recruits had signs and symptoms compatible with shin splints. 65% of the cases noticed symptoms during the first four weeks of conscription. 78% were free from symptoms after 30 days exemption from physical exercise. The patients were examined together with a group without shin splints. The passive subtalar joint mobility was identical in the two groups. When examining the subtalar joint position in the standing position, increased eversion was found in the group with shin splints.
Tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with an intramedullary device.	An intramedullary fixation device was devised by the senior author (K.A.J.) to use in conjunction with a previously described method for tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis. Satisfactory results were obtained in approximately 87% of the initial 30 patients; union was radiographically or clinically evident in all but two patients. Many of these patients had been offered or were considering below the knee amputation; only two ultimately chose this reconstructive option at a follow-up that ranged from 4 to 27 months.
