Ixodes ricinus as a vector of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Babesia microti in urban and suburban forests.	In the suburban and urban forests in the cities of Gdansk, Sopot and Gdynia (northern Poland), Ixodes ricinus ticks should be considered as the vector of pathogenic microorganisms that may cause significant diseases in wild and domestic animals and humans. These microorganisms include etiologic agents of Lyme disease, human anaplasmosis (HA) and babesiosis: Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Babesia microti, respectively. DNA extracts from 701 ticks collected in 15 localities were examined by PCR for the simultaneous detection of these 3 pathogens. Overall, 14 % were infected with A. phagocytophilum followed by 12.4 % with B. burgdorferi s.l. and 2.3 % with B. microti. In total, the percentage of infected females (32.9 %) was 2.4 times higher than in males (13.7 %) and 3.2 times higher than in nymphs (10.3 %). Among adult ticks (n = 303), 8.3 % were dually infected with A. phagocytophilum and B. burgdorferi s.l., 2.0 % with the agent of human anaplasmosis and B. microti and 0.3 % with borreliae and B. microti.
Is late bottle-weaning associated with overweight in young children? Analysis of NHANES III data.	To determine whether age of bottle-weaning is associated with overweight in young children, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey III data for 3027 children aged 3-5 years were analyzed. The main outcome measure, the child's body mass index (BMI), was measured as: <85%, 85-95%, >95%. Mean bottle-weaning age was 18.78 months. After adjustment for potential confounders, each additional month of bottle use corresponded to a 3% increase in the odds of being in a higher BMI category (95% CI 0.0099-0.0535). Prolonged bottle use in young children is associated with increased risk of overweight. From a preventive medicine standpoint, decreasing exposure to this potential risk for childhood overweight is indicated.
Individual background factors for "cannot go out alone to distant places" among medium elderly persons living alone in a metropolitan suburb]	To verify whether the statement "cannot go out alone to distant places" should be considered a risk factor for disability among medium elderly persons living alone autonomously in a metropolitan suburban environment, the present cross-sectional study was performed.
Association of intersection approach speed with driver characteristics, vehicle type and traffic conditions comparing urban and suburban areas.	A mobile recording system, with integrated laser speed gun, video from CCD-cameras and auxiliary battery system, was used to observe driving behavior at an urban intersection and a suburban analog. After removal of instances of interference, 1538 driving behaviors were recorded. Multiple regression was then utilized to examine the factors affecting approaching speed. Speed limit violation was considered a dichotomous variable with two categories, violation and compliance. Binary logistic regression was also used to examine the risk of speeding as a function of covariates and interaction terms. The results of analysis revealed that the major contributing factors for approaching speed were site, rush-hour-status, traffic light condition, vehicle type and driver gender. In particular, light status was the highest contributor to speed. In addition, the results of logistic regression showed significant sites and rush-hour effects on speeding, with the risk of limit violation in the suburbs nearly six-fold that in urban areas. The relative risk of speeding for travelling in non-rush hours is three times higher than that for rush-hour. In terms of driver characteristics, male drivers under 55 years of age had the greatest speeding propensity in our sample. The results of the present study may provide meaningful information applicable to the design and operation of signalized intersections.
Pediculosis prevention and control strategies of community health and school nurses: a descriptive study.	Pediculus humanus capitis (pediculosis capitis) affects several million school children in the United States every year and is more prevalent among children than all other childhood communicable diseases combined. Traditional treatment of pediculosis involves the direct application of pesticides to the scalp of infested individuals. Yet, a single-treatment, 100% ovicidal pediculicide has not been developed. Head lice can be easily detected by an educated screener. The National Pediculosis Association (NPA) recommends regular screenings to control lice outbreaks in school settings. Screening is utilized as a prevention strategy to facilitate early detection and minimize exposure to potentially toxic chemicals. Nurses working with children in the country's schools are in key positions to develop, initiate, and incorporate prevention and control strategies into their child healthcare agenda. An NPA national survey identified specific lice management strategies used by community health nurses (CHNs) and school nurses working in school systems. The purpose of this article is to report the prevention and control strategies used by the nurses. Results of this national survey indicated significant variation in management strategies. A national standardized approach toward prevention and control is not being utilized.
Comparison of exhaled carbon monoxide levels among commuters and roadside vendors in an urban and a suburban population in Pakistan.	Carbon monoxide (CO) is one of the six criteria air pollutants related to urbanization and has a wide range of health effects. The study measured and compared the exhaled CO levels among commuters and roadside vendors in potentially heavy and low traffic volume areas of Karachi, a megacity in Pakistan. Saddar town [areas of M. A. Jinnah Road (Tibet Center, Denso Hall) and Empress Market] was selected to represent an area of high traffic volume and the suburban town of Gadap (Gadap and Gulshan-e-Maymar) was selected to represent an area of no or low traffic volume. The study compared the CO exposure of commuters and roadside vendors in high and low traffic volume in Karachi. CO exposure was measured in expired air using the breath analyzer module of Bacharach Monoxor-II, USA. A total of 326 individuals (115 commuters and 211 stationary roadside vendors) from Saddar town (n = 193) and Gadap town (n = 133) were selected. In addition, CO levels in ambient air in the same areas, using portable CO analyzer (Bacharach, Monoxor-II, USA), were measured. The mean ambient CO level at Saddar town was 15.6 (SE ± 2.6) ppm compared to 3.3 (SE ± 0.3) ppm at Gadap town. The mean CO level in expired air was significantly higher among nonsmokers at Saddar town (12.8 ± 0.5 ppm) compared to the nonsmokers at Gadap town (7.8 ± 0.4 ppm). The mean CO level in expired air among smokers was twice that of nonsmokers (21.6 vs. 10.6 ppm). CO in expired air was greater among high traffic volume commuters and roadside stationary population in Karachi, Pakistan. The population in Karachi is exposed to high concentration of air pollutants. These pollutants need to be characterized for health effects and interventions needs to be developed.
Prevalence of diabetes among suburban population of Ternate--a small remote island in the eastern part of Indonesia.	to study the prevalence of diabetes in a sub-urban population of one of the less developed provinces in eastern part of Indonesia and its associated risk factors.
Complete immunization coverage and reasons for non-vaccination in a periurban area of Abidjan]	An immunization coverage survey was conducted among children aged 12-59 months in a suburban neighbourhood in Abidjan. The objective was to determine the complete immunization coverage, the reasons for non-vaccination and factors influencing the immunization status of children. The method of exhaustive sampling enabled us to interview the mothers of 669 children using a questionnaire. Overall vaccination coverage was 68.6% with 1.2%, with 1.2% of children never having received vaccine. The logistic regression analysis showed that the level of education, knowledge of the immunization schedule and the marital status of mothers, as well as the type of habitat, were associated with full immunization of children. These determinants must be taken into account to improve vaccination coverage.
High mortality, violence and crime in alcohol dependents: 5 years after seeking treatment in a Brazilian underprivileged suburban community.	To investigate the results of alcohol-related consequences in an underprivileged area of São Paulo.
How many Slovenian family practice attendees are victims of intimate partner violence? A re-evaluation cross-sectional study report.	Intimate partner violence (IPV) can be considered a leading public health problem affecting approximately 50% of women during the course of their lifetimes. This study was carried out with the aim of re-testing the prevalence data and providing sufficient grounds for decision-makers in family medicine in Slovenia to adopt much-needed protocols for IPV management in the field.
U.S. apartheid and the spread of AIDS to the suburbs: a multi-city analysis of the political economy of spatial epidemic threshold.	We compare mechanisms of AIDS diffusion at the county level from five U.S. central city epicenters into their associated metropolitan regions. Four of the five show an expanding 'hollowed out' center of physically and socially devastated, politically and economically abandoned high density minority neighborhoods, surrounded by rings of relatively affluent majority suburban populations. From these centers AIDS diffuses into the suburbs as a single, spatially extended disease ecosystem. The exception, San Francisco, has not yet experienced the 'hollowing out' process and is, we conclude, a major AIDS epicenter markedly less coupled to its suburbs because of that fact. This may constitute one of the few empirical observations of spatial threshold in epidemiology. Our empirical results contradict the conclusions of a recent National Research Council report that AIDS will be largely confined within marginalized urban populations. In reality U.S. urban apartheid, particularly its continuing disruption of minority social structures, has markedly accelerated the diffusion of AIDS into suburban communities. A widespread program of reform, which rebuilds minority physical and social community structures within both city and suburb, is an essential, but largely unrecognized, component to any serious strategy for the control of AIDS in the United States.
Sexual behavior of nonurban students in grades 7 and 8: implications for public policy and sex education.	In a study of 1,844 suburban and rural students in Grades 7 and 8 in public schools in Washington, Oregon, California, and Idaho, sexual activity was much lower than that reported by the popular media and in some scholarly journals. The difference was in part related to using measures other than asking the adolescents whether they had ever had sexual intercourse. The estimates based on those who have had sex more than just once decreased to 16% the number of adolescents who would be classified as sexually active. If the definition of sexually active is further limited to only those who have had sex recently (within the past 4 weeks), only 9% are sexually active. Further restrictions to those who have had sex 5 or more or 10 or more times reduce the percentage of sexually active adolescents to 6% and 2%, respectively. Over-all, the percentage of "sexually active" adolescents depends on the empirical definition of "sexually active," and there are many indications why "ever had sex" is not an adequate measure.
Leptospira infection under the natural conditions of the environs of Saint Petersburg]	The existence of valent natural foci of leptospirosis, stable and polyhostal, under the conditions of urban agglomerations has been established. In an intensively urbanized landscape, the foci of mixed (natural and anthropic) type can be found. Depending on the character of microlandscape in a given zone, the main hosts of leptospires are different species of small mammals in whose populations, as a rule, the circulation of at least three Leptospira species is observed. Introduction of the 'carriership index' will help determine the role of different species of small mammals as the potential source of leptospires in the foci, as well as the proportion of different circulating Leptospira species and their zonal distribution.
Community educational interventions against inappropriate drug use]	In the present study, which was carried out in peri-urban areas of Lima and Chimbote, Peru, and La Paz, Bolivia, the household survey method was used to investigate the manner in which drugs are used in treating the most common diseases in each locality. The objectives were to detect inappropriate practices, correct them through educational interventions, and determine the interventions' effectiveness. Simple random sampling was used to select the residences surveyed, which were then divided into study groups and control groups. A preliminary survey determined that the most frequent illnesses were the common cold, diarrhea, and dietary deficiency diseases and that their treatment often involved the inappropriate use of drugs. Educational interventions of varying duration were carried out, and subsequently a second survey was performed using the same instrument in order to determine the effectiveness of the interventions. Although there was an increased tendency not to treat the aforementioned diseases, the responses directly related to the use of drugs did not reveal any significant changes in behavior. Various factors were identified that influence the consumption of drugs.
Aetiological factors and prevalence of severe mental retardation in children in a Swedish municipality: the possible role of consanguinity.	The prevalence of severe mental retardation (SMR) was studied in one of the 24 suburban municipalities in Stockholm. The study area had a high proportion of non-European nationals. The study population comprised 14138 children born between 1979 and 1992 who resided in this municipality on the census day, 31 December 1995. The total prevalence of SMR was 4.5 per 1000, being 3.7 per 1000 and 5.9 per 1000 in the European and in the non-European population, respectively. The majority of cases (66%) had a definite prenatal origin. Down syndrome was the cause in 20%. Six families (10%) had at least two children with SMR. It was concluded that the prevalence was higher than in previous Swedish studies. Many cases were attributed to genetic factors. Consanguineous marriages were assumed to be a factor of importance in the distribution of aetiologies. Demographic differences between areas in Sweden must be considered when planning habilitation services.
