Pharmacological characterization of PABSA, an orally active and highly potent endothelin-receptor antagonist.	The pharmacological characterization of a nonpeptide endothelin (ET)-receptor antagonist, PABSA [(R)-(--)-2-(benzo[1,3]dioxol-5-yl)-N-(4-isopropyl-phenylsulfon yl)-2-(6-methyl-2-propylpyridin-3-yloxy)-acetamide hydrochloride] was studied. PABSA competitively inhibited the binding of [125I]-ET-1 to A7r5 cells expressing ET(A) receptors and of [125I]-ET-3 to COS cells expressing porcine ET(B) receptors with Ki values of 0.11 and 25 nM, respectively. PABSA inhibited ET(A) receptor-mediated and ET(B) receptor-mediated vasocontraction and ET(B) receptor-mediated vasorelaxation in isolated rabbit vessels with K(b) values of 0.46, 94, and 26 nM, respectively. The antagonist potency of PABSA for ET(A) receptor-mediated vasocontraction was 63- and 87-fold more potent than those of BQ-123 and bosentan, respectively, and was similar to those of TAK-044 and SB209670. Oral administration of PABSA (1-10 mg/kg) caused dose-dependent inhibition of the pressor response to exogenous ET- 1 (0.1 nmol/kg) in conscious normotensive rats. PABSA (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced blood pressure in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSPs). The hypotensive effect of PABSA was sustained for > or =24 h in these rats. These results suggest that PABSA is a highly potent ET(A)-receptor antagonist with weak ET(B)-receptor antagonist activity. Because PABSA has a long duration of action in vivo, this antagonist should be useful in the therapy of ET-related disease.
Influence of n-octenylsuccinate starch on in vitro permeation of sodium diclofenac across excised porcine cornea in comparison to Voltaren ophtha.	The influence of different n-octenylsuccinate starch (AS) formulations, i.e. AS solutions and an AS stabilized emulsion system, on the in vitro corneal permeation behaviour of sodium diclofenac (DfNa) was investigated and compared to the commercial product Voltaren ophtha (VO). Although saturation concentrations of DfNa achieved with polyoxethylene-35-castor oil (POC), which is the solubilizing additive in VO, are higher than those achieved with AS at varying pH values, it was found that AS solutions yield higher DfNa permeation rates than VO or a POC solution. However, permeation is extremely reduced with rising AS concentrations or AS emulsions. Neither pH value (6.5 or 7.4) nor presence of preservative seem to have an impact on permeation activity. In order to assess possible cytotoxic effects of the preparations investigated, red blood cell haemolysis studies were performed with different preparations containing DfNa. None of the tested AS formulations showed significantly high haemolytic data. On the other hand the high in vitro haemolysis obtained with VO is primarily based on an osmotic effect caused by boric acid.
tert-Butyl hydroperoxide-induced radical production in rat liver mitochondria.	When rat liver mitochondria are treated with tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP) in the presence of the spin trap 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide (DMPO), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) signals are detected attributable to spin adducts resulting from the trapping of methyl, tert-butoxyl, and tert-butylperoxyl radicals. The addition of respiratory substrate results in a 3- to 7.5-fold increase in the signal intensity of the DMPO/methyl adduct, no change in the signal intensity of the DMPO/tert-butoxyl adduct, and complete loss of the DMPO/tert-butylperoxyl adduct signal. The magnitude of increase of methyl radical production in the presence of respiratory substrate is related to the respiratory control ratio (RCR) of the mitochondrial preparation. In the presence of antimycin A, which blocks electron flow between cytochromes b and c1, no stimulation of methyl radical production is detected with respiratory substrate. Stimulation of methyl radical production by the addition of respiratory substrate is detected in cytochrome c-depleted mitochondria. A similar increase in methyl radical production is detected when ferrous cytochrome c is treated with TBHP in the presence of DMPO (as compared to when ferricytochrome c is used). These results indicate that TBHP is reduced directly by either cytochrome c1, cytochrome c, or by both of these electron transport chain components in mitochondria undergoing state 4 respiration.
Influence of succinate on the effectiveness of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in surviving slices of rat hippocampus]	Sodium succinate has been studied for its influence on the efficiency of glutamate transmission in the Schaffer collateral synapses and duration of its potentiation state caused by high-frequency stimulation in surviving hippocampal slices. It is shown that administration of sodium succinate (50 mg/kg i. p.) to rats 30 min prior to decapitation stabilizes glutamate transmission in field CA1 of the rat hippocampal slices and increases duration of its potentiation state.
Modulation of the mitochondrial cyclosporin A-sensitive permeability transition pore by the proton electrochemical gradient. Evidence that the pore can be opened by membrane depolarization.	This paper reports an investigation on the relationship between the proton electrochemical gradient (delta mu H+) and the cyclosporin A-sensitive permeability transition pore (PTP) in rat liver mitochondria. Using the SH group cross-linker phenylarsine oxide as the inducer, we show that both matrix pH and the membrane potential can modulate the process of PTP induction independently of Ca2+. We find that membrane depolarization induces the PTP per se when pHi is above 7.0, while at acidic matrix pH values PTP induction is effectively prevented. Since Ca2+ uptake leads to major modifications of the delta mu H+ (i.e. matrix alkalinization and membrane depolarization), we have explored the possibility that the Ca(2+)-induced changes of the delta mu H+ may contribute to PTP induction by Ca2+. Our data in mitochondria treated with Ca2+ plus N-ethylmaleimide and Ca2+ plus phosphate show that membrane depolarization is a powerful inducer of the PTP. Taken together, our observations indicate that the PTP can be controlled directly by the delta mu H+ both in the absence and presence of Ca2+, and suggest that a collapse of the membrane potential may be the cause rather than the consequence of PTP induction under many experimental conditions. Thus, many inducers may converge on dissipation of the membrane potential component of the delta mu H+ by a variety of mechanisms.
Effect of the serotonin blocker sarpogrelate on circulating interleukin-18 levels in patients with diabetes and arteriosclerosis obliterans.	We aimed to evaluate the effect of treatment with sarpogrelate, a serotonin 2A receptor antagonist, on circulating interleukin (IL)-18 levels in patients with diabetes and arteriosclerosis obliterans. Patients received sarpogrelate (100 mg 3 times daily) for 2 months. We evaluated the degree of cryaesthesia (a feeling of cold in the foot and toes) as the clinical outcome, and measured circulating IL-18, IL-6 and lipid protein concentrations. An improvement in clinical outcome occurred after initiation of sarpogrelate therapy; a significant decrease in IL-18 levels was observed after 2 months of therapy. Levels of IL-6 and lipid proteins, including triglyceride, total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, were not significantly altered by treatment. Our data suggest that by reducing circulating IL-18 levels, sarpogrelate treatment may contribute to the inhibition of arteriosclerosis obliterans progression in patients with diabetes.
Effect of NaCN on currents evoked by uremic retention solutes in dissociated mouse neurons.	Uremic retention solutes possibly contribute to neuronal hypoxia/ischemia and its consequences in patients with renal failure. We examined the in vitro effects of several uremic retention solutes on murine central neurons under chemically induced metabolic hypoxia by application of sodium cyanide (NaCN). Whole cell currents were recorded using the tight-seal whole-cell voltage clamp technique. Application of NaCN caused an inward whole-cell current. From all tested toxins, which included several indoles, guanidino compounds, polyamines, purines, phenols, DL-homocysteine, orotate and myoinositol, only creatinine (CTN), guanidine (G) and guanidinosuccinic acid (GSA) produced a significant current in control and hypoxic neurons. Current evoked by GSA was significantly increased in the chemical hypoxic condition, and a synergistic effect of GSA and spermine was observed in hypoxic neurons.
Itaconate reduces visceral fat by inhibiting fructose 2,6-bisphosphate synthesis in rat liver.	Itaconate is an analog of phosphoenolpyruvate, which is an inhibitor of fructose-6-phosphate 2-kinase (F6P2Kinase), an enzyme that synthesizes fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (F26BP). Carbohydrates ingested are preferentially used for glycogen synthesis in the liver and muscles, and excess carbohydrates are metabolized by glycolysis in the liver and used for fatty acid synthesis. We hypothesized that itaconate is incorporated into liver cells and suppresses fat synthesis by inhibiting liver glycolysis at the step of phosphofructokinase, which is activated by F26BP.
Substrate specificity of the human renal sodium dicarboxylate cotransporter, hNaDC-3, under voltage-clamp conditions.	Proximal tubule cells extract dicarboxylates from filtrate and blood, using cotransporters located in the brush border [sodium dicarboxylate cotransporter (NaDC-1)] and basolateral cell membrane (NaDC-3). We expressed the human NaDC-3 (hNaDC-3) in Xenopus laevis oocytes and characterized it by the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. At -60 mV, succinate (4 carbons) and glutarate (5 carbons) generated inward currents due to translocation of three sodium ions and one divalent dicarboxylate, whereas oxalate (2 carbons) and malonate (3 carbons) did not. The cis-dicarboxylate maleate produced currents smaller in magnitude, whereas the trans-dicarboxylate fumarate generated currents similar to succinate. The substituted succinate derivatives, malate, 2,2- and 2,3-dimethylsuccinate, and 2,3-dimercaptosuccinate elicited inward currents, whereas aspartate and guanidinosuccinate showed hardly detectable currents. The C-5 dicarboxylates glutarate and alpha-ketoglutarate produced larger currents than succinate; glutamate and folate failed to cause inward currents. Kinetic analysis revealed, at -60 mV, K(0.5) values of 25 +/- 12 microM for succinate and 45 +/- 13 microM for alpha-ketoglutarate, values close to the plasma concentration of these compounds. For both compounds, the K(0.5) was independent of voltage, whereas the maximal current increased with hyperpolarization. As opposed to the rat and flounder orthologs, hNaDC-3 was hardly inhibited by lithium concentrations up to 5 mM. In the absence of sodium, however, lithium can mediate succinate-dependent currents. The narrow substrate specificity prevents interaction of drugs with dicarboxylate-like structure with hNaDC-3 and ensures sufficient support of the proximal tubule cells with alpha-ketoglutarate for anion secretion via organic anion transporter 1 or 3.
Selective blockade of serotonin 5-HT2A receptor increases coronary blood flow via augmented cardiac nitric oxide release through 5-HT1B receptor in hypoperfused canine hearts.	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]), which induces vasoconstriction via 5-HT2A receptors in smooth muscle cells and vasodilation through activating nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) via 5-HT1B receptors in endothelial cells, possesses divergent effects on regulating vascular tone. These facts lead us to consider that sarpogrelate, a 5-HT2A receptor blocker, may increase coronary blood flow (CBF) via either attenuation of vasoconstriction through 5-HT2A receptor blockade or augmentation of vasodilation by relative stimulation of NOS through 5-HT1B receptor and we tested this hypothesis in ischemic canine hearts. In open chest dogs, coronary perfusion pressure was reduced so that CBF was decreased to 33% of the baseline and kept constant. Thereafter, sarpogrelate was infused selectively into the left anterior descending artery with and without either an inhibitor of NOS (NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)) or a 5-HT1B receptor antagonist (GR55562). An intracoronary administration of sarpogrelate increased CBF (34.0 +/- 4.0 to 44.5 +/- 4.4 ml/100 g/min, P < 0.05), along with the cardiac NOx release (3.2 +/- 0.6 to 6.8 +/- 1.2 nmol/ml, P < 0.05). The increases in both CBF and NOx by sarpogrelate were completely blunted by the co-administration of either L-NAME or GR55562. Interestingly, sarpogrelate increased the cardiac serotonin release (-4.8 +/- 3.2 vs. 22.1 +/- 1.5 ng/ml, P < 0.05, respectively) in the hypoperfused heart. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that sarpogrelate induced serotonin production in ischemic cardiac myocytes. These results suggest that sarpogrelate increases CBF via augmented cardiac NO production through 5-HT1B receptor activation along with the blockade of 5-HT2A receptors. The increase in cardiac release of serotonin may increase NO production in the ischemic heart.
Effects of 5-HT2A receptor antagonist on blood flow in chronically compressed nerve roots.	Neurogenic intermittent claudication (NIC) can be caused by compression of the cauda equina by spinal stenosis and is a major clinical problem. A reduction of blood flow is an important mechanism for inducing NIC and may be caused by a vasoconstrictive effect mediated by the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor in chronic cauda equina compression lesions. This study assessed the effects of the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist on nerve vasculature in chronically compressed nerve roots. A plastic balloon was placed under the lamina of L7 and inflated to 10 mmHg and left for 1 week in several cauda equina compression models. All experimental animals received an acute administration of serotonin. One group received sarpogrelate hydrochloride (5-HT2A receptor antagonist: 5-HTRA) before administration of serotonin, and another group was administered 5-HTRA after administration of serotonin. Diameters and blood flow in the vasculature of S2 or S3 nerve roots were measured after injection of serotonin. In animals without compression of the cauda equina (sham), blood vessels contracted and the blood flow was reduced after administration of serotonin. In sham and compression animals receiving both serotonin and 5-HTRA, blood vessel diameter was not reduced and was significantly larger than that in the compression group receiving only serotonin (p<0.05). Likewise, the blood flow was not reduced in sham and compression animals receiving serotonin and 5-HTRA and was significantly greater in the compression group treated only with serotonin. 5-HTRA inhibited vasoconstriction and the reduction of blood flow in chronically compressed nerve roots challenged with serotonin. This fact suggests that 5-HTRA might be effective at improving blood flow in chronically compressed nerve roots in patients with spinal canal stenosis and changes in circulation levels of serotonin.
Artificial colloids impair haemostasis. An in vitro study using thromboelastometry coagulation analysis.	Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions impair haemostatic mechanisms. The impact of the degree of substitution (DS) of a HES solution on thromboelastometry tracings is unclear. Therefore we tested the hypothesis of whether the DS has an effect on the haemostatic defect caused by HES, and assessed whole blood coagulation by thromboelastometry coagulation analysis (ROTEM, Pentapharm Co., Munich, Germany) in serial in vitro haemodilutions of colloids.
Plant and environmental sensory signals control the expression of hrp genes in Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola.	The hrp genes of Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola control the development of primary disease symptoms in bean plants and the elicitation of the hypersensitive response in resistant plants. We examined the expression of the seven operons located in the 22-kb hrp cluster (L. G. Rahme, M. N. Mindrinos, and N. J. Panopoulos, J. Bacteriol. 173:575-586, 1991) in planta and in vitro under different physiological and nutritional conditions by using chromosomally located hrp::inaZ reporter fusions. We show that (i) a plant signal(s) is specifically required for the induction of the seven hrp operons, during both compatible and incompatible interactions; (ii) hrpL and hrpRS are regulated by different mechanisms in planta and in vitro; and (iii) expression of individual hrp loci is differentially affected by pH, osmotic strength, and type of carbon source: hrpAB, hrpC, and hrpD were downregulated similarly by osmolarity, pH, and certain carbon sources; hrpE expression was affected strongly by pH and carbon substrate and slightly by osmolarity; and hrpF was not substantially affected by any of these factors. These findings suggest complex signaling mechanisms taking place during plant-pathogen interactions.
Sarpogrelate, a 5-hT2A receptor antagonist in intermittent claudication. A phase II European study.	This was a multinational, multicentre, double-blind Phase II study in Europe to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two dose regimens (200 mg bid and 200 mg tid) of sarpogrelate (MCI-9042, 5-HT2A receptor antagonist) compared to placebo in patients with stable, moderately severe intermittent claudication. Following a single-blind placebo run-in period of 6 weeks, 364 (309 male and 55 female) patients (59.2 +/- 8.4 years, mean +/- SD) were randomized to receive sarpogrelate 200 mg bid, 200 mg tid or placebo for 24 weeks with a follow-up of 8 weeks. The primary objective was the increase of absolute claudication distance (ACD) at the end of treatment (week 24) compared to placebo. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was performed on the log-transformed percentage of baseline ACD: loge(ACD/baseline). A responder analysis (defined as a > or = 50% improvement in ACD) was also performed. There was a marked training/placebo effect on the ACD which persisted up to 16 weeks. At 24 weeks the primary objective did not reach statistical significance (200mg bid vs placebo, p = 0.225; 200mg tid vs placebo, p = 0.580). In the responder analysis, 200 mg bid showed a statistically significant difference vs placebo (p = 0.035). In the exploratory analysis with completers (patients completing all treadmill tests), there was a statistical difference in ACD/baseline change for 200 mg bid (p = 0.035) and in the responder analysis for 200 mg tid (p = 0.044) at 24 weeks compared to placebo. Both treatments showed a carry-over effect for ACD during the 8-week follow-up (weeks 28-32). The treatment was well tolerated and no clinically significant safety concerns were reported. In conclusion, the study results confirm that sarpogrelate is well tolerated and although the primary endpoint failed to reach statistical significance, the responder analysis showed an increased absolute walking distance, which makes a further trial warranted, including a larger population, and possibly also a longer treatment period.
Charges of nicotinamide adenine nucleotides and adenylate energy charge as regulatory parameters of the metabolism in Escherichia coli.	Methods for measurements of catabolic reduction charge (defined as NADH/(NADH+NAD+)) and anabolic reduction charge (defined as NADPH/(NADPH + NADP+)) are described using [14C]nicotinamide labeling of Escherichia coli cultures. Together with these parameters the adenylate energy charge (ATP + 1/2ADP)/(ATP + ADP + AMP) was measured using labeling with [2-3H]adenine. These three charges were found under different exponential growth conditions to have values independent of the growth conditions: catabolic reduction charge, 0.05; anabolic reduction charge, 0.45; and adenylate energy charge, 0.9. The charges were examined during interruption of growth primarily affecting catabolism, respiration, or anabolism, leading to changes of the charges. The changes of charges are evaluated as a possible regulation of the metabolic rates utilizing or producing the nucleotides by their respective charges.
Multiple abnormalities in insulin responses to nonglucose nutrients in neonatally streptozotocin diabetic rats.	Insulin responses to nutrient secretagogues were investigated in neonatally streptozotocin-injected (n-STZ) rats, i.e. an animal model of noninsulin-dependent diabetes. In the perfused pancreas 16 mM L-glutamine induced and 10 mM octanoate tended to induce (P less than 0.2) higher responses in n-STZ than in nondiabetic rats. Addition of 3.9 mM glucose potentiated responses to glutamine and octanoate more in n-STZ (3.3- and 3.4-fold) than in nondiabetic rats (1.5- and 1.9-fold). Conversely, the succinate derivative succinate monomethylester (Succ ME) induced lesser response in n-STZ rats (57% of that in nondiabetic rats) and coperfusion with 3.9 mM glucose increased the response less in n-STZ (1.4-fold) than in nondiabetic rats (3.8-fold). Pyruvate (20 mM) mimicked the potency of 3.9 mM glucose, i.e. pyruvate potentiated the response to Succ ME only nonsignificantly (1.2-fold) in n-STZ but markedly (4.9-fold) in nondiabetic rats. Dichloroacetate (20 mM) failed to affect the response to Succ ME together with pyruvate in n-STZ rats. To investigate the role of hyperglycemia for octanoate-induced secretion, nondiabetic rats were made hyperglycemic by 48-h glucose infusions. Octanoate-induced secretion from perfused pancreas was enhanced 3.8-fold after moderate hyperglycemia (13.2 +/- 0.6 mM) and 17-fold after marked hyperglycemia (22.7 +/- 0.6 mM). This positive association between response and degree of hyperglycemia was not found with a nonnutrient secretagogue, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. Results with glutamine and octanoate indicate that oxidation of nonglucose nutrients which normally do not regulate secretion is enhanced secondary to chronic hyperglycemia. Results with Succ ME and pyruvate suggest that early steps of oxidation of glucose are impaired in n-STZ rats.
Enhanced mitochondrial metabolism may account for the adaptation to insulin resistance in islets from C57BL/6J mice fed a high-fat diet.	Hyperinsulinaemia maintains euglycaemia in insulin-resistant states. The precise cellular mechanisms by which the beta cells adapt are still unresolved. A peripherally derived cue, such as increased circulating fatty acids, may instruct the beta cell to initiate an adaptive programme to maintain glucose homeostasis. When this fails, type 2 diabetes ensues. Because mitochondria play a key role in beta cell pathophysiology, we tested the hypothesis that mitochondrial metabolism is critical for beta cell adaptation to insulin resistance.
Resuscitation fluids for the treatment of hemorrhagic shock in dogs: effects on myocardial blood flow and oxygen transport.	The efficacy of using colloids vs. crystalloids in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock remains controversial. An important aspect in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock is the reestablishment of normal myocardial blood flow after fluid resuscitation. This study, therefore, was designed to investigate the effect of resuscitation with different plasma substitutes on myocardial blood flow and oxygen transport after acute hemorrhage in dogs. Forty-three dogs were anesthetized and bled into a heparinized Wiggers' reservoir to a mean arterial pressure of 35 mm Hg. The animals were maintained at this level of hypotension for 90 mins, whereupon the animals were infused with one of five randomly selected fluids: a) succinylated gelatin (Gelofusine); b) urea-linked gelatin (Haemaccel); c) 6% hetastarch (Hespan); d) lactated Ringer's solution; or e) shed blood. Myocardial blood flow was measured using the radiolabeled microsphere technique.
Synergism of isothermal regimen and sodium succinate in experimental therapy of barbiturate coma.	In rats with experimental thiopental coma rectal temperature decreased by 9.4 degrees C, oxygen consumption 5-fold, and arteriovenous Po(2)gradient decreased 2-fold within 3 h; CO(2)accumulated in the blood and mixed type acidosis developed. Administration of sodium succinate under these conditions increased arteriovenous Po(2)gradient and reduced manifestations of metabolic acidosis. Maintenance of normal body temperature (warming) corrected primarily manifestations of respiratory acidosis. Each therapeutic agent reduced inhibition of O(2)consumption by 1/4; animal survival tended to increase from 42 to 50%. Combined use of these treatments potentiated the antiacidotic effect and increased survival to 92%. The authors conclude that hypothermia inhibits the therapeutic effect of succinate in barbiturate coma.
Topography of the active site of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae plasmalemmal dicarboxylate transporter studied using lipophilic derivatives of its substrates.	2-Alkylmalonates and O-acyl-L-malates have been found to competitively inhibit the dicarboxylate transporter of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells, and the substrate derivatives chosen did not penetrate across the plasmalemma under the experiment conditions. Probing of the active site of this transporter has revealed a large lipophilic area stretching between the 0.72 to 2.5 nm from the substrate-binding site. Itaconate inhibited the transport fivefold more effectively than L-malate. This suggests the existence of a hydrophobic region immediately near the dicarboxylate-binding site (to 0.72 nm). The yeast plasmalemmal transporter was different from the rat liver mitochondrial dicarboxylate transporter. An area with variable lipophilicity adjoining the substrate-binding site has been revealed in the latter by a similar method. This area is mainly hydrophobic at distances up to 1.76 nm from the binding site and is separated by a hydrophilic region from 0.38 to 0.88 nm. Fumarate but not maleate competitively inhibited succinate transport into the S. cerevisiae cells. It is suggested that the plasmalemmal transporter binds the substrate in the trans-conformation. The prospects of the proposed approach for scanning lipophilic profiles of channels of different transporters are discussed.
Itaconate, an isocitrate lyase-directed inhibitor in Pseudomonas indigofera.	Enzymes catalyzing steps from ethanol to acetyl-coenzyme A, from malate to pyruvate, and from pyruvate to glucose 6-phosphate were identified in ethanol-grown Pseudomonas indigofera. Enzymes catalyzing the catabolism of glucose to pyruvate via the Entner-Doudoroff pathway were identified in glucose-grown cells. Phosphofructokinase could not be detected in Pseudomonas indigofera. Itaconate, a potent inhibitor of isocitrate lyase, abolished growth of P. indigofera on ethanol at concentrations that had little effect upon growth on glucose. The date obtained through enzyme analyses and studies of itaconate inhibition with both extracts and toluene-treated cells suggest that itaconate selectively inhibits and reduces the specific activity of isocitrate lyase.
Relationship between the stimulation of citric acid cycle oxidation and the stimulation of fatty acid esterification and inhibition of ketogenesis by lactate in isolated rat hepatocytes.	Isolated hepatocytes from fasted rats were used to study the effects of lactate on palmitate metabolism. Lactate was found to stimulate fatty acid esterification and citric acid cycle oxidation and to inhibit ketone body synthesis. These effects of lactate were largely maintained when gluconeogenesis was inhibited with either quinolinate or perfluorosuccinate, but were overcome by alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate. However, the responses of hepatocytes to lactate could be restored in the presence of alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate by the further addition of propionate. The stimulation of triacylglycerol synthesis by lactate was not associated with an increase in the concentration of glycerol 3-phosphate. Rather, there was a correlation between flux through the citric acid cycle and the rate of triacylglycerol synthesis. In all instances reduction of ketone body formation in the presence of lactate was accompanied by a stimulation of citric acid cycle oxidation.
Intracellular pH regulates the production of different oxygen metabolites in neutrophils: effects of organic acids produced by anaerobic bacteria.	The effects of short chain carboxylic acids (SCCA), namely succinic, butyric, and iso-butyric, on neutrophil metabolic activation were assessed. SCCA induced a significant decrease in O2.- recovery and chemiluminescent response in neutrophils activated with the diacylglycerol analog tetradecanoyl-phorbol-acetate (TPA). SCCA did not alter O2 consumption, H2O2 production, or the calorimetrically determined energy expenditure occurring during the metabolic burst. SCCA also induced a significant acidification of intracellular pH (pHi). These results are consistent with an increased divalent versus univalent O2 reduction performed by the NADPH oxidase at a more acidic intracellular pH.
In vivo effects of putative crowding factors on development of Hymenolepis diminuta.	During in vitro incubation, Hymenolepsis diminuta secretes substances into the medium that inhibit DNA synthesis in the germinative region of freshly isolated, uncrowded worms. Of the many substances that are released by H. diminuta into the medium, earlier studies indicate that only succinate, acetate, glucosaminic acid, and cGMP are responsible for the inhibition. In the present report, effects of these putative crowding factors on worm development in vivo were examined. At 7 days postinfection the proximal end of the host's intestine was catheterized and perfused with test solution. The test solution contained 28 nM cGMP, 250 microM glucosaminic acid, 120 mM succinate, and 40 mM acetate. The solution was perfused by a peristaltic pump at a rate of 50 ml/day. At 2 wk postinfection, worms were recovered for subsequent analysis. Worms developing in the presence of crowding factors were 53% less in wet weight than control worms. Carbohydrate concentrations in worms from experimental groups were not different from those in control groups; therefore, the inhibition in growth was probably not due to carbohydrate deprivation. Worms from experimental groups had fewer immature, mature, and gravid proglottids than did worms from control groups. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the tested substances, which inhibit DNA synthesis in H. diminuta in vitro, are a part of the cause of the crowding effect in vivo.
The microtiter SDI test is more advantageous than the SDI test for assessing the chemosensitivity of human tumor cells.	The in vitro succinate dehydrogenase inhibition (SDI) test was adapted to be used with microtiter plates and this microtiter SDI (mSDI) test was evaluated for clinical use of chemosensitivity testing, as compared to findings with the SDI test. The optimal conditions of the mSDI test were determined: (1) 2-5 x 10(4) cells/well; (2) enzymatic disaggregation of solid tumors with the use of a mixture of 0.2% pronase, 0.25% collagenase, 0.1% DNase for 20 min at 37 degrees C; (3) addition of 10 mM sodium succinate in the colorimetric reaction; and (4) use of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a solvent for extraction of formazan product. Good correlations were observed between the mSDI and the SDI tests when S-180 cells (r = 0.890-0.996) or 16 human fresh tumor cells (r = 0.731-0.999) were exposed to six anti-cancer drugs (carboquone, adriamycin, mitomycin C, aclacinomycin A, cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil). Thus, the mSDI test facilitates testing of a large number of drugs with minimal amounts of specimens, and is expected to replace the SDI test for chemosensitivity testing of clinical tumor cells.
Inhibition of electron transport of rat liver mitochondria by unnatural (-)-antimycin A3.	The inhibition of electron transport by unnatural (-)-antimycin A3 was examined with rat liver mitochondria and compared with that of natural (+)-antimycin A3. (-)-Antimycin A3 inhibited respiration about 1/100th as strongly as natural (+)-antimycin A3. (-)-Antimycin A3 binding to the cytochrome bc1 complex did not seem to induce a conformational change in this proteinous complex. The binding site of (-)-antimycin A3 was probably the same as that of (+)-antimycin A3 (at the Qi center). However, the mode of interaction with the Qi center by (-)-antimycin A3 and (+)-antimycin A3 was somewhat different.
Sarpogrelate hydrochloride, a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) antagonist, augments autologous bone marrow mononuclear cell implantation-induced improvement in endothelium-dependent vasodilation in patients with critical limb ischemia.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a combination of bone marrow mononuclear cell (BM-MNC) implantation and sarpogrelate, a selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist, on endothelial function in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI).
Effect of alpha-ketoglutarate and its structural analogues on hysteretic properties of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase.	The burst of product accumulation during the KGD reaction was investigated. It has been shown not to be the obligatory feature of catalysis, but appears when increasing the enzyme saturation by KG. Structural analogues of KG and the SH-group modification suppress the initial burst without preventing catalysis. The results obtained are in favour of the existence of the regulatory site for binding KG and its structural analogues essential for hysteretic properties of KGD.
The potential of lactate and succinate to kill nutrient deprived tumor cells by intracellular acidification.	We have investigated the ability of the weak acids, lactate, succinate, and the monomethylester of succinate, to cause intracellular acidification of EMT-6 and MGH-U1 cells. Each of the three substances caused a decrease of intracellular pH (pHi) when the cell lines were exposed at low extracellular pH (pHe) in the range 6.0-6.5. Only monomethylsuccinate caused intracellular acidification at neutral pHe. The fall in pHi increased with increasing dose of each agent and with decreasing pHe. The pHi recovered to almost normal values after exposure of 30 minutes to 50 mM lactate, but there was little or no recovery of pHi in the presence of succinate or monomethylsuccinate. Succinate and its methylester were toxic to cells at low pHe (less than 6.5), and cell killing increased with exposure time and with dose of the agents used. Lactate did not cause cell death at low pHe, and none of the three substances exhibited any cytotoxicity at neutral pHe. Solid tumors are known to have an acidic microenvironment, and pHe may be particularly low in regions of hypoxia. Succinate and its monomethylester may have the potential to kill cells in acidic regions of tumors and might therefore enhance the effect of radiation.
Predicting Bevirimat resistance of HIV-1 from genotype.	Maturation inhibitors are a new class of antiretroviral drugs. Bevirimat (BVM) was the first substance in this class of inhibitors entering clinical trials. While the inhibitory function of BVM is well established, the molecular mechanisms of action and resistance are not well understood. It is known that mutations in the regions CS p24/p2 and p2 can cause phenotypic resistance to BVM. We have investigated a set of p24/p2 sequences of HIV-1 of known phenotypic resistance to BVM to test whether BVM resistance can be predicted from sequence, and to identify possible molecular mechanisms of BVM resistance in HIV-1.
Antioxidant activity of cytoflavin in experimental diffuse purulent peritonitis]	One of key factors in the development of endogenous intoxication during widespread purulent peritonitis is a disbalance in the free-radical oxidation. A hyperactivation of lipid peroxidation and a decrease in the antioxidant activity cause impairment of the cell mitochondria function. The new metabolic drug cytoflavin possesses pronounced antioxidant properties, provides an effective and fast restoration of the LPO and antioxidant activity balance, and increases the speed of free radical elimination. This investigation confirmed the expediency of including cytoflavin in the complex treatment of widespread purulent peritonitis with the aim of normalizing biological oxidation processes and eliminating endogenous intoxication factors.
HIV-1 maturation inhibitor bevirimat stabilizes the immature Gag lattice.	Maturation of nascent virions, a key step in retroviral replication, involves cleavage of the Gag polyprotein by the viral protease into its matrix (MA), capsid (CA), and nucleocapsid (NC) components and their subsequent reorganization. Bevirimat (BVM) defines a new class of antiviral drugs termed maturation inhibitors. BVM acts by blocking the final cleavage event in Gag processing, the separation of CA from its C-terminal spacer peptide 1 (SP1). Prior evidence suggests that BVM binds to Gag assembled in immature virions, preventing the protease from accessing the CA-SP1 cleavage site. To investigate this hypothesis, we used cryo-electron tomography to examine the structures of (noninfectious) HIV-1 viral particles isolated from BVM-treated cells. We find that these particles contain an incomplete shell of density underlying the viral envelope, with a hexagonal honeycomb structure similar to the Gag lattice of immature HIV but lacking the innermost, NC-related, layer. We conclude that the shell represents a remnant of the immature Gag lattice that has been processed, except at the CA-SP1 sites, but has remained largely intact. We also compared BVM-treated particles with virions formed by the mutant CA5, in which cleavage between CA and SP1 is also blocked. Here, we find a thinner CA-related shell with no visible evidence of honeycomb organization, indicative of an altered conformation and further suggesting that binding of BVM stabilizes the immature lattice. In both cases, the observed failure to assemble mature capsids correlates with the loss of infectivity.
A cross-over inhibitor of the botulinum neurotoxin light chain B: a natural product implicating an exosite mechanism of action.	Clostridium botulinum produces the most lethal toxins known to man, as such they are high risk terrorist threats, and alarmingly there is no approved therapeutic. We report the first cross-over small molecule inhibitor of these neurotoxins and propose a mechanism by which it may impart its inhibitory activity.
Comparative study of hepatoprotective action of remaxol, reamberin and ademethionine in liver injury induced by antituberculosis drugs (experimental study)]	The hepatoprotective activity of remaxol, reamberin and ademethionine was studied on a model of the liver injury induced by antituberculosis drugs. The study included 30 male uninbred albino rats. The following antituberculosis drugs were used: isoniazid (50 mg/kg) subcutaneously + rifampicin (250 mg/kg) intragastrically + pyrazinamide (45 mg/kg) intragastically (by the procedure of Yu. I. Slivka, 1989). Remaxol, reamberin and ademethionine were administered 1.5 hour prior to the antituberculosis drugs. The treatment course was 14 days. It was shown that remaxol, reamberin and ademethionin were able to correct the structural and functional disorders in the liver due to the use of the antituberculosis drugs. By the impact on the biochemical indices, evident of the liver function condition, remaxol showed the maximum effect. The effect of ream-berin was somewhat lower and the results of the ademethionine use were less significant. Remaxol had also a distinct effect as for lowering the level of the structural injuries in the liver, evident from recovery of the organ histoarchitectonics, less extended carbohydrate, albuminous and fatty degeneration, more active intracellular regeneration. It was noted that ademethionine had an insignificant effect on necrobiosis. Moreover, there was once detected a large necrosis focus, evident of possible stimulation of the liver tissue alteration by the drug.
The "go or grow" potential of gliomas is linked to the neuropeptide processing enzyme carboxypeptidase E and mediated by metabolic stress.	Glioblastoma (GBM), the most common malignant brain tumor, is among the most lethal neoplasms, with a median survival of approximately 1 year. Prognosis is poor since GBMs possess a strong migratory and highly invasive potential, making complete surgical resection impossible. Reduced expression of carboxypeptidase E (CPE), a neuropeptide-processing enzyme, in a cell death-resistant glioma cell line and lower CPE expression levels in the cohort of GBM samples of The Cancer Genome Atlas compared to normal brain control specimens prompted us to analyze the function of CPE as a putative tumor suppressor gene. In our samples, CPE was also reduced in GBM compared to normal brain with the strongest loss in cells surrounding hypoxic tumor areas as well as in most glioma cell lines and primary glioma cells. In our cohort of glioma patients, loss of CPE predominantly occurred in glioblastomas and was associated with worse prognosis. In glioma cells, CPE overexpression was significantly reduced, whereas knockdown or inhibition enhanced glioma cell migration and invasion. The decreased migratory potential following CPE overexpression was paralleled by altered cellular morphology, promoting a transition to focal adhesions and associated stress fibers. In contrast to the decreased migration, high CPE levels were associated with higher proliferative rates. As microenvironmental regulation cues, we identified CPE as being downregulated upon hypoxia or glucose deprivation. Our findings indicate an oxygen- and nutrition-dependent anti-migratory, but pro-proliferative role of CPE in gliomas with prognostic impact for patient survival, thereby contributing to the understanding of the "go or grow" hypothesis in gliomas.
Rat liver mitochondrial damage under acute or chronic carbon tetrachloride-induced intoxication: protection by melatonin and cranberry flavonoids.	In current societies, the risk of toxic liver damage has markedly increased. The aim of the present work was to carry out further research into the mechanism(s) of liver mitochondrial damage induced by acute (0.8 g/kg body weight, single injection) or chronic (1.6g/ kg body weight, 30 days, biweekly injections) carbon tetrachloride - induced intoxication and to evaluate the hepatoprotective potential of the antioxidant, melatonin, as well as succinate and cranberry flavonoids in rats. Acute intoxication resulted in considerable impairment of mitochondrial respiratory parameters in the liver. The activity of mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase (complex II) decreased (by 25%, p<0.05). Short-term melatonin treatment (10 mg/kg, three times) of rats did not reduce the degree of toxic mitochondrial dysfunction but decreased the enhanced NO production. After 30-day chronic intoxication, no significant change in the respiratory activity of liver mitochondria was observed, despite marked changes in the redox-balance of mitochondria. The activities of the mitochondrial enzymes, succinate dehydrogenase and glutathione peroxidase, as well as that of cytoplasmic catalase in liver cells were inhibited significantly. Mitochondria isolated from the livers of the rats chronically treated with CCl₄ displayed obvious irreversible impairments. Long-term melatonin administration (10 mg/kg, 30 days, daily) to chronically intoxicated rats diminished the toxic effects of CCl₄, reducing elevated plasma activities of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase and bilirubin concentration, prevented accumulation of membrane lipid peroxidation products in rat liver and resulted in apparent preservation of the mitochondrial ultrastructure. The treatment of the animals by the complex of melatonin (10 mg/kg) plus succinate (50 mg/kg) plus cranberry flavonoids (7 mg/kg) was even more effective in prevention of toxic liver injury and liver mitochondria damage.
Intrahepatic induction of endogenous S-adenosyl-L-methionine against the background of various ways of administration of methionine-succinate complex and its role in drug-induced liver lesion correction]	A comparative study of the level of endogenous S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) with other hepatoprotectors in pharmacological correction of liver drug lesion. Among 117male rats. It has been shown that among antituberculous drugs only Remaxol and Runihol were causing significant increase in endogenic S4M. Taking into account the amelioration of lab results as well as histological condition of the liver against the background of Remaxol treatment as well as positive effect of Runihol treatment upon cholestasis, one can draw a conclusion upon the importance of succinic acid together with SAM induction as a part of hepatoprotective effect of the drug. Reamberin, which contains succinic acid without methionine also shows hepatoprotective qualities and doesn't induce endogenous SAM production. Positive therapeutic effect of exogenous SAM regardless the way of administration doesn't correlate with endogenous SAM induction, and is associated with the external hepatocyte cell membrane restoration.
The effects of carbodiimides on functions associated with the energy-conservation mechanism in beef heart sub-mitochondrial particles.	N,N'-di-n-propyl-, N,N'di-n-butyl-, N,N'-di-n-pentyl-, N,N'di-n-hexyl-, N,N'di-n-octoyl, N,N'-dibenzhydryl-, and N,N'-dibenzhydrylcarbodiimides were synthesized. They were all effective inhibitors (2 nmoles carbodiimide per milligram protein) of the ATP-driven reduction of NAD by succinate and the ATP-driven transhydrogenase activities catalyzed by beef heart submitochondrial particles (SMP). They had no effect on the nonenergy-linked transhydrogenase and stimulated the succinate-driven aerobic transhydrogenase activity of beef heart SMP. It was concluded that they exert their effects by reacting with the N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-binding protein. Water-soluble carbodiimides were not effective inhibitors.
Production of acetol from glycerol using engineered Escherichia coli.	Escherichia coli Lin43 is a strain which has some mutations in glycerol kinase (GlpK) and the repressor for the glycerol 3-phosphate regulon (GlpR). When exposed to glycerol, it quickly accumulates lethal levels of methylglyoxal, which is a precursor of acetol; acetol is important for the manufacture of polyols, acrolein, dyes, and skin tanning agents. This work reports the engineering of E. coli Lin 43 for the conversion of glycerol into acetol. First, the glyoxalase system was interrupted by deleting the gloA gene, which increased the acetol yield by 32%. In addition, the aldehyde reductase YqhD was overexpressed which led to an increase of acetol production by 11.4-fold. Acetol production was optimized by varying the cell density, glycerol concentration, supplemental carbon source, pH and temperature. Under the optimal conditions (OD600=20, 20 g/L glycerol, 2g/L succinate, pH 7.0, and 28°C), we obtained 5.4 g/L acetol in 21 h.
Mechanisms of triple stress-mediated damage in stationary phase cells of Salmonella typhimurium exposed to succinate-acidified hypochlorite system at 5 degrees C.	Exposure for 20 min of stationary phase cells of Salmonella typhimurium to a combined triple stress system (TSS) treatment comprising hypochlorite derived 5 ppm free available chlorine in solution acidified with 1% succinate (pH 2.5) and at a chill shock temperature of 5 degrees C resulted in symptoms of injury. Cells became sensitive to 40 micrograms/ml lysozyme, 50 micrograms/ml actinomycin D and 100 micrograms/ml ribonuclease B, to which control cells were resistant. Metabolic injury was indicated by reduction in colony forming ability of stressed cells on minimal salts glucose agar M9 medium. There was no detectable leakage loss of 260-280 nm-absorbing materials. This was also confirmed by assay of the cellular RNA material components. Loss of alkaline phosphatase activity was observed in the stressed cells. The intensity of induced cellular damage as measured by lysozyme sensitivity was greatest in the cells exposed to the complete TSS, followed by those stressed in 1% succinate at 5 degrees C, then 5 ppm chlorine at 5 degrees C and the singular chill shock stress at 5 degrees C, respectively. The magnitudes of cellular damage, however, were suggestive of synergistic interactions among the component stress factors of the TSS. The findings obtained indicated impairment of the structural integrity and functional capabilities of the permeability barriers and the inactivation of certain periplasmic enzymes. The resultant cumulative cellular damage from the TSS exposure may therefore enhance greater sensitivity of treated cells to subsequent stress factors.
Elimination and restoration of voltage dependence in the mitochondrial channel, VDAC, by graded modification with succinic anhydride.	The major permeability pathways of the outer mitochondrial membrane are the voltage-gated channels called VDAC. It is known that the conductance of these channels decreases as the transmembrane voltage is increased in the positive or negative direction. These channels are known to display a preference for anions over cations of similar size and valence. It was proposed (Doring & Colombini, 1985b) that a set of positive charges lining the channel may be responsible for both voltage dependence and selectivity. A prediction of this proposal is that progressive replacement of the positive charges with negative charges should at first diminish, and then restore, voltage dependence. At the same time, the channel's preference for anions over cations should diminish then reverse. Succinic anhydride was used to perform these experiments as it replaces positively charged amino groups with negatively charged carboxyl groups. When channels, which had been inserted into phospholipid membranes, were treated with moderate amounts of the anhydride, they lost their voltage dependence and preference for anions. With further succinylation, voltage dependence was regenerated while the channels became cation selective. The voltage needed to close one-half of the channels increased in those treatments in which voltage dependence was diminished. As voltage dependence was restored, the voltage needed to close half of the channels decreased. The energy difference between the open and closed state in the absence of an applied field changed little with succinylation, indicating that the procedure did not cause large changes in VDAC's structure but specifically altered those charges responsible for voltage gating and selectivity.
Effect of succinic acid derivatives and chitosan on the oxidation status of tissues in rats with cerebral ischemia/reperfusion model]	The administration of chitosan succinate and N-succinylchitosan to rats with cerebral ischemia/reperfusion model damage leads to a decrease in the level of lactate (marker of ischemic injury development), parameters of biochemiluminescence (measure of free-radical oxidation intensity), and lipid peroxodation products in animal tissues as compared to untreated (pathologic) control. The obtained results show evidence of the ability of tested drugs to decrease the degree of oxidative stress manifestation under cerebral ischemia/reperfusion conditions, which is related to the positive control effect of chitosan-based drugs on the free-radical homeostasis.
Protective effect of 3-oxypyridine and succinic acid derivatives under conditions of acute alloxan-induced intoxication in mice]	Protective action of 3-oxypiridine and succinic acid derivatives (emoxipin, reamberin and mexidol) was studied in mice under acute alloxan-induced intoxication conditions. All these drugs exhibited protective action with respect to hyperglycemia and hyperglycemia-connected elongation of desperate behavior in the tail-suspension test and reduced activity level on the open field test. Mexidol exceeded emoxipin in the dose range of protecting action with respect to alloxan-induced hyperglycemia and was superior to reamberin in the treatment of desperate behavior in the tail-suspension test.
Effects of serotonin on expression of the LDL receptor family member LR11 and 7-ketocholesterol-induced apoptosis in human vascular smooth muscle cells.	Serotonin (5-HT) is a known mitogen for vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). The dedifferentiation and proliferation/apoptosis of VSMCs in the arterial intima represent one of the atherosclerotic changes. LR11, a member of low-density lipoprotein receptor family, may contribute to the proliferation of VSMCs in neointimal hyperplasia. We conducted an in vitro study to investigate whether 5-HT is involved in LR11 expression in human VSMCs and apoptosis of VSMCs induced by 7-ketocholesterol (7KCHO), an oxysterol that destabilizes plaque. 5-HT enhanced the proliferation of VSMCs, and this effect was abolished by sarpogrelate, a selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist. Sarpogrelate also inhibited the 5-HT-enhanced LR11 mRNA expression in VSMCs. Furthermore, 5-HT suppressed the 7KCHO-induced apoptosis of VSMCs via caspase-3/7-dependent pathway. These findings provide new insights on the changes in the differentiation stage of VSMCs mediated by 5-HT. 
The role of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor and cyclooxygenase pathways in the inhibitory serotonergic response to the pressor effect elicited by sympathetic stimulation in chronic sarpogrelate treated rats.	We have demonstrated that the antagonism of 5-HT2 receptors produces an enhancement of serotonergic sympathoinhibitory effect by 5-HT1D and 5-HT7 activation. The aim of this work was to determine mechanisms involved in the 5-hydroxytriptaminergic inhibitory action on the pressor responses elicited by sympathostimulation in pithed rats treated with a 5-HT2 receptor blocker. The blockade of 5-HT2 receptors was induced by orally sarpogrelate treatment (30 mg/kg/day). Two weeks later, animals were anaesthetized and pithed. A bolus injection of 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) (10 µg/kg), a guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, or indomethacin (2mg/kg), a non-selective COX inhibitor, prior to the infusion of (2S)(+)-5-(1,3,5-trimethylpyrazol-4-yl)-2-(dimethylamino)tetralin, AS-19 (5 µg/kg/min) were not able to abolish its inhibitory action. However, i.v. administration of glibenclamide (20mg/kg), a blocker of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels, completely reversed AS-19 sympathoinhibitory action. The inhibitory effect of 2-[5-[3-(4-methylsulfonylamino)benzyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl]-1H-indol-3-yl]ethanamine, L-694,247 (5 µg/kg/min) was abolished by indomethacin, whereas pretreatment with ODQ had no effect. Nimesulide (3mg/kg), a COX-2 inhibitor, completely reversed the inhibitory action of L-694,247, whereas 1-[[4,5-bis (4-methoxyphenyl)-2-thiazolyl]carbonyl]-4-methylpiperazine hydrochloride (FR122047) (3mg/kg), a COX-1 inhibitor, partially blocked this action. The sympathoinhibition by 5-HT (20 µg/kg/min) could not be elicited after i.v. treatment with indomethacin plus glibenclamide. In conclusion, these results suggest that in chronic sarpogrelate-treated rats, the inhibitory serotonergic effect of the pressor responses induced by electrical stimulation of the sympathetic outflow via 5-HT7 and 5-HT1D receptor activation is mediated by KATP channel-mediated smooth muscle hyperpolarization and the COX pathway, respectively.
Relationships between the NAD(P) redox state, fatty acid oxidation, and inner membrane permeability in rat liver mitochondria.	Dysfunction of mitochondria after oxidation of endogenous NAD(P)H, especially after calcium accumulation, has been abundantly reported, but the causes of membrane perturbations did not receive a full explanation. In light of several additional observations reported in this study, we propose a general scheme which shows the sequential processes that are likely involved in the appearance of calcium-induced membrane leakiness. Addition of acetoacetate, oxaloacetate, or ketomalonate to rotenone-treated mitochondria led to a massive oxidation of both NADH and NADPH. Under these conditions, stimulation of fatty acid oxidation could be observed. This process was shown to be accompanied by a reduction of intramitochondrial NADP+. The reduction of NADP+ was inhibited by uncouplers, electron transfer inhibitors and N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. It was thus probably catalyzed by the mitochondrial transhydrogenase. Oxidation of pyridine nucleotides in the presence of acetoacetate induced (i) a slight decrease in the number of sulfhydryl groups reactive with N-ethylmaleimide (but no change in the amount of intramitochondrial reduced glutathione) and (ii) modifications of the kinetics and the orientation of the ADP/ATP carrier. In the presence of calcium ions, acetoacetate-stimulated fatty acid oxidation promoted an extensive swelling of mitochondria. Uptake of calcium ions into the matrix was a critical factor for triggering the swelling. Thiols, if they were added at a sufficiently high concentration, suppressed the swelling. Also ligands of the ADP/ATP carrier which stabilized the m-state conformation of the protein, exerted an efficient protective action. Three essential interacting factors emerge from this study: (i) The crucial role of the ADP/ATP carrier orientation in promoting the calcium-induced membrane destabilization. More precisely, it has been shown that the ADP/ATP carrier adopts the c-state conformation (i.e., nucleotide binding site facing the cytoplasm) during fatty acid oxidation. (ii) The modification of a very small number of sulfhydryl groups of mitochondrial protein. These groups are probably in an oxidized state when the level of reduced pyridine nucleotides is low. (iii) The prevailing role of the transhydrogenase, the function of which is also intimately associated with fatty acid oxidation. After energization, transhydrogenase can hinder thiol oxidation and therefore partially protect the membrane structure.
Enhanced Co2+ activation and inhibitor binding of carboxypeptidase M at low pH. Similarity to carboxypeptidase H (enkephalin convertase).	Carboxypeptidases H and M differ in their distribution and other properties, but both are activated by Co2+ and inhibited by guanidinoethylmercaptosuccinic acid. The higher degree of activation or inhibition of carboxypeptidase H by these agents at acid pH has been employed to identify this enzyme in tissues. We found that the activation or inhibition of both purified and plasma-membrane-bound human carboxy-peptidase M depends on the pH of the medium. CoCl2 activated over 6-fold at pH 5.5, but less than 2-fold at pH 7.5. Guanidinoethylmercaptosuccinic acid inhibited the membrane-bound carboxypeptidase M more effectively than the purified enzyme, and the IC50 was about 25-30 times lower at pH 5.5. As purified human plasma carboxypeptidase N and pancreatic carboxypeptidase B were also activated more at pH 5.5, we conclude that the increased activation by CoCl2 is due to the enhanced dissociation of Zn2+ below the pKa of the ligands that co-ordinate the cofactor in the protein. Thus increased activation or inhibition at acid pH would not differentiate basic carboxypeptidases.
The characterization of perfluorosuccinate as an inhibitor of gluconeogenesis in isolated rat hepatocytes.	The effects on metabolism of the fluorinated dicarboxylic acid, perfluorosuccinate, were examined in hepatocytes from fasted rats. Perfluorosuccinate (5 mM) inhibited gluconeogenesis from lactate by 80% and from pyruvate by 40%. Significant inhibition (up to 30%) occurred at a concentration of perfluorosuccinate of 50 microM. Cellular ATP levels were not affected by perfluorosuccinate, nor was the rate of formation of ketone bodies from palmitate, although the ratio [3-hydroxybutyrate]/[acetoacetate] was increased up to 5-fold relative to the control. An increased concentration of cellular L-malate was measured in the presence of perfluorosuccinate but this did not reflect inhibition of malate transport between the mitochondrial and cytoplasmic compartments. In addition, ethanol oxidation by hepatocytes was inhibited 25% by 1 mM perfluorosuccinate. Ureogenesis from ammonia was relatively insensitive to inhibition by perfluorosuccinate. In cytoplasmic extracts of rat liver, the activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and aspartate aminotransferase were inhibited 40-50% and 23%, respectively, by 1 mM perfluorosuccinate. The observed metabolic effects of perfluorosuccinate are consistent with inhibition of the activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and aspartate aminotransferase within the cytoplasm.
Superoxide generation by the respiratory chain of tumor mitochondria.	O2-. generation by the succinate oxidase segment of the respiratory chain of mitochondria and submitochondrial particles from hepatoma 22a and hepatoma Zajdela has been studied with the use of the Tiron method. In the presence of succinate, superoxide generation is induced by antimycin, 2-n-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide or funiculosin, and is inhibited by mucidin, myxothiazol or cyanide. The rate of O2-. generation in the antimycin-inhibited state is maximal at the [succinate]/[fumarate] ratio of 1:10 and diminishes at more positive and more negative redox potentials. These characteristics of O2-.-generation are the same as observed earlier in submitochondrial particles from normal tissues. Accordingly, the mechanism of superoxide production is suggested to be the same in tumor and normal mitochondria, namely, autoxidation of the unstable ubisemiquinone in the ubiquinol-oxidizing centre o of cytochrome bc1 complex. With respect to the rate of O2-. generation, the hepatoma mitochondrial membranes are approximately twice as active as bovine heart submitochondrial particles and exceed those from rat liver by more than one order of magnitude.
Rapid redox equilibrium between the mitochondrial Q pool and cytochrome b during triphasic reduction of cytochrome b by succinate.	The reliability of monitoring the redox reactions of cytochrome b using the different wavelengths employed by different authors has been reexamined. It was found that 562-575 nm is suitable in succinate: cytochrome c reductase but not in mitochondria, in which case 562-540 nm is a better pair. Direct optical measurements of the redox reaction kinetics of the mitochondrial Q pool using a commercial dual-wavelength spectrophotometer are possible when succinate is used as the electron donor. Using the correct wavelength pair, and with malonate to slow down the electron input, the reduction course of cytochrome b was still triphasic but a plateau or a turn replaced the oxidation phase previously reported by several authors. At the same time, the reduction course of the Q pool was also triphasic, and in perfect match with that of cytochrome b. Destruction of the Rieske iron-sulfur cluster by British anti-Lewisite (BAL) + O2 treatment or prereduction of the high-potential components made the reduction of both Q and b monophasic. The plot of log (Q/QH2) against log (b3+/b2+) gave a straight line with an n value of 1.7 for cytochrome b at pH 7.4. This n value rose to 2.0 at pH 6.5 and dropped to 1.4 at pH 8.5. On the other hand, the mid-point potential of cytochrome b relative to that of the Q pool remained essentially unchanged between pH 6.5 and 8.4. BAL treatment had a small effect on the midpoint potential of cytochrome b relative to that of the Q pool and had no effect on the n value. Addition of quinone homologues and analogues extended the plateau phase in the reduction of cytochrome b, but exogenous quinones did not equilibrate rapidly with cytochrome b. It was concluded that the appearance of the plateau between the two reduction phases of Q and b is caused by the rapid delivery of electrons to the high-potential components of the respiratory chain as envisaged in the Q cycle; the unexpected n value for cytochrome b suggests a concerted reduction by QH2 of two species of cytochromes b-562.
The effect of ring substituents on the mechanism of interaction of exogenous quinones with the mitochondrial respiratory chain.	In uncoupled pig-heart mitochondria the rate of the reduction of duroquinone by succinate in the presence of cyanide is inhibited by about 50% by antimycin. This inhibition approaches completion when myxothiazol is also added or British anti-Lewisite-treated (BAL-treated) mitochondria are used. If mitochondria are replaced by isolated succinate:cytochrome c oxidoreductase, the inhibition by antimycin alone is complete. The reduction of a plastoquinone homologue with an isoprenoid side chain (plastoquinone-2) is strongly inhibited by antimycin with either mitochondria or succinate:cytochrome c reductase. The reduction by succinate of plastoquinone analogues with an n-alkyl side chain in the presence of mitochondria is inhibited neither by antimycin nor by myxothiazol, but is sensitive to the combined use of these two inhibitors. On the other hand, the reduction of the ubiquinone homologues Q2, Q4, Q6 and Q10 and an analogue, 2,3-dimethoxyl-5-n-decyl-6-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone, is not sensitive to any inhibitor of QH2:cytochrome c reductase tested or their combined use, either in normal or BAL-treated mitochondria or in isolated succinate:cytochrome c reductase. It is concluded that quinones with a ubiquinone ring can be reduced directly by succinate:Q reductase, whereas those with a plastoquinone ring can not. Reduction of the latter compounds requires participation of either center i or center o (Mitchell, P. (1975) FEBS Lett. 56, 1-6) or both, of QH2:cytochrome c oxidoreductase. It is proposed that a saturated side chain promotes, while an isoprenoid side chain prevents reduction of these compounds at center o.
Structural and chemical requirements for hydroxychlorobiphenyls to uncouple rat liver mitochondria and potentiation of uncoupling with aroclor 1254.	Rat hepatic mitochondrial permeability and succinate + valinomycin-dependent swelling were studied in the presence of hydroxy derivatives of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBOHs), Aroclor 1254 (ARO) and combinations of both. PCBOHs with two or more chlorines and pKas greater than 8.0 (PCBOH I) induced passive swelling in a potassium acetate-sucrose medium (pH 7.2), maximally stimulated succinate respiration, and suppressed ADP-stimulated H+ uptake. Mono- and certain dichlorinated biphenylols with similar high pKas (PCBOH II) were ineffective. Para-hydroxy PCBs with chlorines substituted in the 3,5 positions and with pKas near 6.8 (PCBOH III) inhibited succinate + valinomycin swelling and ADP-stimulated H+ and oxygen uptake. The efficacy of both PCBOH I and III derivatives required the presence of a hydroxyl moiety and increased directly with the degree of chlorination. Coplanarity was not a determining factor for PCBOH I compounds. ARO activated succinate + valinomycin swelling at low concentrations (3-25 nmol/mg protein) but inhibited at higher concentrations (greater than 40 nmol/mg). Activating concentrations of ARO potentiated the influence of PCBOHs on mitochondria. The uncoupling effects of the PCBOHs and ARO involved permeability changes of the inner membrane, respiratory inhibition, or combinations of both.
Glyceraldehyde phosphate and methyl esters of succinic acid. Two "new" potent insulin secretagogues.	We discovered that two physiologically occurring metabolic intermediates, glyceraldehyde phosphate and succinate, are potent insulin secretagogues. No other glycolytic intermediate besides glyceraldehyde phosphate was insulinotropic. Succinate, when added to islets as either its monomethyl or dimethyl ester to increase its cellular permeability, was also insulinotropic. In islets, as in other cell types, these esters are apparently hydrolyzed intracellularly to succinate. Unesterified succinate and other unesterified citric acid-cycle intermediates did not stimulate insulin release. Initiation of insulin release by esters of succinate suggests that mitochondrial metabolism alone is sufficient to initiate and support insulin release. However, this is specific for succinate in that esters of fumarate, pyruvate, and citrate were not insulinotropic.
Comparative effects of several chelating agents on the toxicity, distribution and excretion of aluminium.	The relative efficacy of citric, malic, malonic, oxalic and succinic acids, and deferoxamine mesylate (DFOA) on the toxicity, distribution and excretion in mice exposed to aluminum were compared. Chelating agents were administered intraperitoneally at a dose equal to one-fourth of their respective LD50. To determine the effect of the various chelators on the toxicity of aluminum, various doses of aluminum nitrate (938-3188 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally, followed by one of the chelators. Survival was recorded at the end of 14 days. Malic and succinic acids were the most effective. Malic acid and DFOA were the most effective in increasing the urinary excretion of aluminum. Citric acid was the most effective in increasing the faecal excretion of aluminum. Malonic, oxalic and succinic acids had no overall beneficial effects. Citric acid would appear to be the most effective agent of those tested in the prevention of acute aluminium intoxication. However, before the use of these compounds in human aluminium intoxication is possible, further investigations including the effects of these chelators after chronic aluminium intoxication are required.
The inhibitory effect of succinate on radiation-enhanced mitochondrial lipid peroxidation.	The degree of mitochondrial ADP/Fe/NADPH-induced lipid peroxidation was increased up to the fourth day after 9.0 Gy whole body gamma-irradiation. The lipid peroxidation inhibiting effect of succinate added to isolated mitochondria was diminished as a consequence of irradiation. The succinate, administered in vivo prior to irradiation, decreased the amount of malondialdehyde production and protected the succinate dehydrogenase enzyme against inactivation. The mean survival of succinate-pretreated animals was much longer than that of controls. The role of mitochondrial lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of radiation injury is discussed.
Expression and regulation of the penicillin G acylase gene from Proteus rettgeri cloned in Escherichia coli.	The penicillin G acylase genes from the Proteus rettgeri wild type and from a hyperproducing mutant which is resistant to succinate repression were cloned in Escherichia coli K-12. Expression of both wild-type and mutant P. rettgeri acylase genes in E. coli K-12 was independent of orientation in the cloning vehicle and apparently resulted from recognition in E. coli of the P. rettgeri promoter sequences. The P. rettgeri acylase was secreted into the E. coli periplasmic space and was composed of subunits electrophoretically identical to those made in P. rettgeri. Expression of these genes in E. coli K-12 was not repressed by succinate as it is in P. rettgeri. Instead, expression of the enzymes was regulated by glucose catabolite repression.
Respiratory characteristics of neonatal rat hepatocytes.	Mitochondrial function was studied in isolated hepatocytes from newborn rats to determine the substrate requirements and oxygen dependence of perinatal respiratory activity. The results show that neonatal O2 consumption is markedly dependent on succinate availability; the respiration rate was extremely low in the absence of exogenous substrates, but was stimulated 15-fold by succinate, with half-maximal stimulation of O2 consumption at 0.5 mM succinate. Significant inhibition of respiration by low concentrations of antimycin A suggests that the succinate-induced increase in cellular O2 consumption was primarily due to mitochondrial activity. In contrast, other potential metabolic fuels at comparable concentrations (2.5 to 10 mM) gave less than 2-fold stimulation. Half-maximal oxidation (P50 value) of the mitochondrial cytochromes occurred at very low O2 concentrations and was sensitive to factors that alter cellular O2 consumption. The P50 for cytochrome c oxidation (0.52 microM with 1.5 mM succinate) was, respectively, increased or decreased by additions of succinate or antimycin A. These distinctly lower P50 values for mitochondrial function in neonatal cells compared to adult cells could be a major factor in the ability of fetal and neonatal cells to tolerate relatively low O2 concentrations.
Effect of tuberculostatic agents and sodium succinate on the functional state of liver mitochondria in tuberculosis]	Effects of isoniazide and of new tuberculostatic drug of long-term action on functions of guinea pig liver mitochondria were studied in experimental tuberculosis. Significant changes in oxidative phosphorylation were found. The combination of sodium succinate with tuberculostatic drugs improved the bioenergetic functions of liver mitochondria under the conditions of antibacterial therapy of experimental tuberculosis.
Conversion of MM creatine kinase isoforms in human plasma by carboxypeptidase N.	This study was undertaken to identify the carboxypeptidase(s) (CPase) in plasma mediating sequential conversion of the tissue isoform of the MM isoenzyme of creatine kinase (MM3 CK) to MM2 and MM1 isoforms and to elucidate relationships between CPase activity measured in plasma and observed rates of isoform conversion in vitro. Purified MM3 was incubated at 37 degrees C in plasma from normal subjects and patients with acute myocardial infarction. Isoforms were quantified by chromatofocusing. Preincubation with antiserum to CPase N prevented conversion of added MM3 to MM2 and MM1. Isoform conversion rates in the absence of antibody were proportional to plasma CPase N activity assayed spectrophotometrically by hydrolysis of furylacryloyl-L-alanyl-L-lysine substrate (r = 0.89, n = 8). Plasma CPase N activity varied by nearly 300% among individuals, but average activity was similar in samples from normal subjects (267 +/- 45 [SD] U/L, n = 18), those from outpatients with angina (289 +/- 43 U/L, n = 9), and those obtained at hospital admission from patients with acute infarction (Q wave: 279 +/- 70 U/L, n = 16; non-Q wave: 272 +/- 61 U/L, n = 14) or unstable angina (280 +/- 71 U/L, n = 11). In patients with Q wave infarction, CPase N activity increased by 43% +/- 25% between 48 hours and 72 hours (P less than 0.005 compared with admission) with a concomitant change in the rate of conversion of isoforms. Thus, the rate of conversion of isoforms in individual subjects can be estimated by assay of CPase N activity in plasma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Catecholamine levels in rats during cooling and administration of succinic acid derivatives]	The effect of tonibral and another succinate derivative (IOH-13) on catecholamine level in the rat organs was studied after 48 hours of acute exposure to low temperature (-15 degrees C). The injection of these drugs prevented the decrease in catecholamine concentration in the heart and stabilized its content in the muscles. The higher survival of rats injected IOH-13, as compared to those injected tonibral, correlated with the higher catecholamine level in the heart muscle. It is suggested that adaptive increase of biogenic amines in the heart muscle plays an important role in the protective effect of these drugs during severe cooling.
An eosinophil leukocyte chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis.	The capacity of actively or passively sensitized guinea pig lung to react with antigen to release a factor specifically chemotactic for eosinophil leukocytes (ECF-A) has been demonstrated. The release of ECF-A was also accompanied by the elaboration of both histamine and SRS-A and the appearance of all these mediators exhibited a similar response in terms of the time course of passve sensitization, the effect of antigen dose, the time course of release, divalent cation dependence and enhancement by the presence of succinate or maleate. Decomplementation by the administration of purified cobra venom factor had no effect on the antigen-induced release of ECF-A from actively or passively sensitized lung fragments. When fragments of guinea pig lung were passively sensitized with fractions of guinea pig 7S IgG, only the IgG(1)-containing fractions prepared tissue for the antigen-induced release of ECF-A. Histamine, SRS-A, bradykinin, serotonin, and the prostaglandins PGE(1), PGE(2), and PGF(2alpha) were not eosinophilotactic per se; neither was ECF-A detected following the incubation of these agents with sensitized lung in the absence of antigen. Both eosinophilotactic activity and SRS-A survived extraction in 80% ethanol and evaporation to dryness. SRS-A, however, withstood boiling in alkaline solution for 20 min, whereas ECF-A activity was abolished by this procedure. SRS-A and ECF-A could also be separated by gel filtration. ECF-A activity was completely recovered following its passage through a column of Sephadex G-25 and had an estimated molecular weight of between 500 and 1000. On the basis of size and a formation mechanism independent of the complement system, ECF-A is distinguishable from a previously described complement-dependent eosinophilotactic factor (ECF-C). Thus, ECF-A represents a hitherto undescribed agent which selectively attracts eosinophil leukocytes.
Fluorometric measurement of pyridine nucleotide reduction in the giant axon of the squid.	By monitoring the fluorescence of the isolated giant axon of the squid Loligo pealei, it was possible to follow changes in its oxidation-reduction state as caused by the action of anoxia, cyanide, Amytal, and azide. The response to oxygen depletion was very rapid, the NAD within the axon being 90% reduced within 1-2 min. Cyanide and Amytal gave essentially similar results, although somewhat longer periods of time elapsed during their onset and washout periods. The extent of NAD reduction was essentially the same under conditions of anoxia and treatment with cyanide and Amytal. Azide was less effective in this respect, and at comparatively high levels of concentration (25-50 mM) gave values of 40% or less of the reduction observed with the other inhibitors. The application of ouabain and strophanthidin gave no observable NAD reduction. Variations in the time required to consume given quantities of dissolved oxygen before and after stimulation indicated an increase of 10-20% in oxygen uptake rate associated with activity, although this figure appeared to be a function of the surface-to-volume ratio of the axon. A biochemical analysis of axoplasm for oxidized and reduced pyridine nucleotide was made. Fluorometric examination of centrifuged axoplasm indicated that the NAD-NADH was largely confined to the mitochondria of the axon.
Interchangeability of phosphorylation coupling factors in photosynthetic and respiratory energy conversion.	The nonsulfur purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodopseudomonas capsulata can obtain energy for growth either by anaerobic photophosphorylation or dark oxidative (aerobic) phosphorylation. Successful resolution of phosphorylation coupling factors from energy-converting membranes of this bacterium permitted tests for reciprocal function of such protein factors in oxidative-and photophosphorylation processes. Evidence was obtained for the interchangeability of coupling factor preparations from dark-grown and photosynthetically grown cells in both kinds of energy conversion.
Inhibition of arginyl-transfer ribonucleic acid synthetase activity of Escherichia coli by arginine biosynthetic precursors.	The arginine biosynthetic precursors, ornithine, citrulline, and argininosuccinate, inhibit arginyl-transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) synthetase (EC 6.1.1.13, arginine: soluble RNA ligase, adenosine monophosphate) activity in the in vitro attachment assay system. Ornithine is the most potent, argininosuccinate is next, and citrulline is least effective. The implications of these results are discussed in relation to arginyl-tRNA synthetase activity and the level of the arginine biosynthetic enzymes during conditions of restricted and unrestricted supply of arginine to cells.
Mechanisms relating gastric acid secretion and mucosal blood flow during gastrin and histamine stimulation.	1. Gastric mucosal blood flow (MBF) and gastric acid secretion have been compared and related during the infusion of a wide dose range of gastrin extracts, pentapeptide (Peptavlon, I.C.I. 50123) and histamine.2. Constancy of increase in mucosal blood flow relative to H(+) secretion was obtained with gastrin stimulation, whereas histamine stimulation produced higher ratios of mucosal blood flow to H(+) secretion, and these ratios declined as each experiment continued.3. The importance of considering only the increase in mucosal blood flow in relation to acid secreted is demonstrated.4. It is concluded that the differences shown in the DeltaMBF/DeltaH(+) with histamine and gastrin stimulation provide further evidence that the amidopyrine clearance technique measures gastric mucosal blood flow.
Membrane studies with polarity-dependent and excimer-forming fluorescent probes.	1. The interaction of electron-transporting particles from heavy mitochondria of ox heart with several fluorescent probes was examined. 2. 1-Anilinonaphthalene-8-sulphonate and 2-(N-methylanilino)naphthalene-6-sulphonate both show an energy-dependent response. 3. Energy transfer between the electron-transporting particles and the dyes and the kinetics of the dye-particle interaction were studied in order to locate the binding regions in the membrane. 4. The energy-dependent probe responses were shown to be a result of changes in the quantum yield of fluorescence of the bound dyes together with increased binding of the dyes to the energized membrane. 5. Fluorescence lifetime measurements were also used to observe changes on energization. 6. A new type of probe was found in pyrene-3-sulphonate, which may be regarded as a ;volume indicator' for the internal membrane binding region, since it shows a concentration-dependent excimer fluorescence. 7. By comparing the responses of all these dyes when energized particles are uncoupled, a membrane transition with a time-constant of 2-3s is inferred.
Succinate: protective agent against hyperbaric oxygen toxicity.	When succinate is used to protect rats against the toxicity of oxygen at high pressure, 100 percent survive, with normal or above normal concentrations of adenosine triphosphate being present in the cerebral hemisphere, liver, and kidney. In contrast, 90 percent of the nonprotected animals died during exposure. In corresponding tissues of surviving nonprotected animals adenosine triphosphate concentrations are markedly reduced.
Effects of intravenous infusions of acetate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, triglyceride and other metabolites on the composition of the milk fat and blood in cows.	1. The effects in the cow of intravenous infusions of sodium acetate, butyrate, propionate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, malonate, citrate or succinate, of glucose or of an emulsion of cottonseed oil on the secretion of the component fatty acids of milk fat and on the composition of the blood plasma of the jugular vein have been studied. 2. Glucose and cottonseed oil were the only metabolities consistently to affect the yield of milk fat. Glucose decreased the yield of milk fat through a diminished secretion of the C(18) fatty acids and in two out of three cows also of the steam-volatile fatty acids (C(4)-C(10)). The cottonseed oil caused an increase in the yield of milk fat through an increased secretion of linoleic acid, the major component acid of the cottonseed oil. In three out of four cows, acetate caused an increase in the yield of milk fat through an increased secretion of mainly palmitic acid. 3. The effects of the infusions on milk-fat secretion are discussed in relation to existing knowledge on the origin of the fatty acids of milk fat.
Acetate kinase in the genus Veillonella: effect of succinate, serological cross-reactivity, and separation by electrophoresis.	Acetate kinases from the genus Veillonella were divided into two types: a succinate-stimulated enzyme and a succinate-independent enzyme. Three strains, V. parvula ATCC 17743 (antigenic group II), V. parvula ATCC 17744 (V), and V. parvula ATCC 10790 (VI), contained the succinate-stimulated enzyme. Among four types strains of V. alcalescens, three strains, ATCC 17747 (I), ATCC 17746 (III), and ATCC 17748 (VII), contained the succinate-independent enzyme, whereas only one strain, ATCC 17745 (IV), contained the succinate-stimulated enzyme. Small amounts of antiserum to the purified acetate kinase from V. alcalescens ATCC 17748 completely inhibited the purified and crude enzyme activity from the strain. Classification of the enzymes on the basis of stimulation by succinate was consistent with classification based on serological reactions using the antiserum as an independent parameter. The succinate-stimulated enzyme could be separated into two classes according to the degree of sensitivity to succinate: (i) enzymes from V. parvula ATCC 17744 and V. alcalescens ATCC 17745, which could be demonstrated on gel after electrophoresis by a histochemical method to be highly stimulated by the presence of succinate in the reaction mixture, and (ii) enzymes from V. parvula ATCC 10790 and V. parvula ATCC 17743, which could be easily demonstrated without succinate. Four groups of acetate kinases from the genus Veillonella were separated by gel electrophoretic mobility. The results showed that almost all enzymes from the seven type strains were heterogeneous at the molecular level.
Effect of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate feeding on rat colorectal 1,2-dimethylhydrazine carcinogenesis.	The 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) rodent model for colorectal carcinogenesis was used to explore the effect of dietary dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (DSS) on carcinogenesis. Inbred male F344 rats were divided into two groups of 84 each and fed the following diets: ground chow and 5% corn oil (control group) and ground chow, 5% corn oil, and 1% DSS (experimental group). All rats received high-dose DMH base, 20 mg/kg/week sc for 20 weeks. Twenty rats per group were killed after 3, 4, 5, and 6 months. Duodenum, small intestine, colon, and rectum were dissected out. Each tumor was measured for size and location and evaluated histologically. The percentage of rats bearing tumors in the control and experimental groups did not differ significantly. In each rat there were fewer gastrointestinal tumors in the DSS-fed group of all histologic types combined, at all organ sites, at 5 and 6 months. This difference between the control and DSS-fed rats reached the level of statistical significance for tumors of the duodenum, colon, and rectum and for total gastrointestinal tumors at the 5th month.
Effect of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate on cyclic AMP and prostaglandin E2 contents, and Na,K-ATPase, adenylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase activities in rat intestine.	The hypothesis that dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (DSS) induces intestinal fluid accumulation by inhibiting Na,K-ATPase activity and/or by increasing mucosal prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) content was tested in rats. Eighteen hours after its intragastric administration, DSS (260 mg/kg body weight) significantly decreased jejunal and colonic Na,K-ATPase activity--22.0 1.8 (SE) and 25.1 +/- 3.3 compared with 42.1 +/- 1.6 and 37.0 +/- 2.9 mumol . mg protein-1 . h-1, respectively, in saline-treated rats. DSS increased jejunal and colonic PGE2 content--155 +/- 15 (SE) and 273 +/- 40, compared with 109 +/- 9 and 175 +/- 23, pg/mg wet weight, respectively, in control rats. Although jejunal adenylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase activities were not affected by DSS (520 mg/kg body weight), they were significantly stimulated in the colon. Mucosal cyclic AMP content was similar in rats treated with DSS and saline. Patchy histological changes confined to surface absorptive cells were induced by DSS in both the jejunum and the colon. These findings suggest that inhibition of intestinal Na,K-ATPase activity and increase in mucosal PGE2 content might contribute to the net water accumulation induced in the rat intestine by DSS.
Mechanism of virus inactivation by peracids]	Peracids are a class of substances inactivating the largest spectrum of viruses in comparison to the other known disinfectants. The mode of action is unknown however. For the detection of the reaction mechanism we studied the inactivating kinetics of poliovirus and polio-RNA as well as the virus- and RNA-inactivation in dependence on the peracid concentration. In addition the sedimentation of the virus and the virus-RNA were determined. The inactivation curves of virus particles and virus-RNA respectively showed a similar, not linear course. The sedimentation of the virion and the RNA were altered after treatment with peracid and showed a disrupted capsid and a fragmented RNA as a result of incubation with the disinfectant.
Can steroid reduce endothelial damage in stored corneas? Effect on cell viability and ultrastructure.	We studied the effect of steroid on the viability and integrity of the endothelium of variously stored corneas of different species of animals and man. Paired corneas of rodents and humans were used,--one cornea (experimental) being treated with steroid and the other (control) not. Rat and guinea pig corneas were kept at 37 degrees C for one hour in phosphate buffered saline with or without hydrocortisone 21-sodium succinate (10-6M). Human corneas were kept at 4 degrees C for 4 days in M-K medium with or without hydrocortisone 21-sodium succinate (10-6M). The viability of the endothelia (rat and guinea pig) was tested with para Nitro Blue Tetrazolium and trypan blue dye exclusion tests. The ultrastructural changes in the control and experimental endothelial (guinea pig and human) were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Viable cells P less than 0.001) were more numerous and ultrastructural alteration less in the endothelia of the steroid treated corneas compared to the controls.
The comparative effects of a synthetic and a 'natural' oestrogen on the haemostatic mechanism in patients with primary amenorrhoea.	A synthetic and a natural oestrogen were administered alternately for three months to nine women with primary amenorrhoea using a randomized cross-over schedule. Measurements of haemostatic function were performed before and at the end of each treatment period. No significant change in haemostatic function was observed after treatment with the 'natural' oestrogen, oestriol succinate. In contrast, treatment with a synthetic oestrogen, ethinyloestradiol, caused shortening of the prothrombin time and an increase in plasma concentration of factor VII and plasminogen. These data support other observations in suggesting that natural oestrogens may have fewer potentially adverse effects on haemostatic function than synthetic oestrogen.
The effects of long-term therapy with oestriol succinate on the haemostatic mechanism in postmenopausal women.	In a previous report we showed that oestriol succinate administered to postmenopausal women caused fewer changes in haemostatic function over a four-month period than ethinyloestradiol. Potential longer-term effects were studied in postmenopausal women treated for osteoporosis with oestriol succinate for up to 12 months. Over this period there was no significant change in concentration of plasma coagulation factors, an increase in plasminogen concentration and euglobulin lysis activity, and an inconsistent increase in platelet sensitivity to aggregation induced by ADP and collagen. The relative lack of effect of oestriol succinate on coagulation function is encouraging with regard to the future incidence of thromboembolic complications of therapy.
Uptake and binding of calcium by axoplasm isolated from giant axons of Loligo and Myxicola.	1. Axoplasm isolated from giant axons of the squid Loligo and of the polychaete worm Myxicola continues to bind Ca and maintain an ionized Ca concentration close to 0.1 microgram which is similar to that seen in intact axons. 2. Injection of Ca into isolated axoplasm only produces a transient rise in ionized Ca showing that axoplasm can buffer a Ca challenge. 3. In order to characterize the Ca-binding systems isolated axoplasm was placed in small dialysis tubes and exposed to a variety of artificial axoplasms containing 45Ca. 4. In the presence of ATP, orthophosphate and succinate, Ca uptake appreciable and after 4 hr exposure of Loligo axoplasm to 0.1 microgram-Ca, approximately 100 mumole Ca/kg axoplasm was bound. Binding could be divided operationally into two distinct processes, one that requires ATP or succinate togeth with orthophosphate and is blocked by cyanide and oligomyocin, and one that is unaffected by these reagents. 5. Energy-dependent binding has a large capacity, but a rather low affinity for Ca, being half-maximal between 20 and 60 microgram-Ca. In Loligo, its properties closely parallel those of a crude mitochondrial preparation isolated from axoplasm; but there are some interesting differences in Myxicola. Energy-independent binding is half-maximal at ionized Ca concentrations between 80 and 160 nM but is readily saturated and has a capacity of 6-60 mumole/kg axoplasm. 6. Ca binding by Loligo is greatest in media containing roughly physiological concentrations of K and is reduced by isosmotic replacement of K by Na. This effect seems to be confined to the energy-dependent, presumed mitochondrial, component of binding. 7. Ca binding by Loligo axoplasm is reduced by both La and Mn ions.
Influence of the salt moiety on the effectiveness of corticosteroid therapy in cardiogenic shock.	Using closed chest coronary artery microsphere embolization, myocardial infarction and subsequent shock were produced in healthy adult mongrel dogs. Following infarction animals were distributed among the following groups: (1) control; (2) methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS); (3) methylprednisolone sodium phosphate (MPSP); (4) sodium phosphate (SP); and (5) sodium succinate (SS). Drug doses of equivalent anti-inflammatory activity were administered i.v. 15 min after infarction. Compared to control animals, only dogs treated with MPSS exhibited significant improvements in hemodynamic parameters and permanent survival. Survival in MPSS dogs was significantly (P = 0.02) better than that of either group treated with SP or SS and substantially (P = 0.02) better than that of either group treated with SP or SS and substantially (P = 0.065) better than the survival rate of dogs receiving MPSP. It appears that succinate is permissive, while phosphate is restrictive, with respect to efficacy of methylprednisolone in experimental cardiogenic shock. Possible explanations for these observations are discussed.
Response of adenine nucleotide metabolism in the aged rat liver to fasting and succinate injections]	The total adenine nucleotide content in the livers from 24-month-old rats was shown to be by 30% lower than that of 3--4-month-old rat livers. A 24-hr fasting resulted in a decrease of the hepatic ATP levels, ATP/ADP ratios, phosphorylation potentials, adenylate energy charges and action mass ratios of adenylate kinase, crude at the same extents in adult and aged rats as well as in the equal increase of ADP, AMp and Pi levels. Injections of 0.9% NaCl or ammonium succinate to the aged rats (daily for 6 days prior to the experiment) did not affect the hepatic energy metabolism. The effects of potassium succinate was essentially the same as that of the fasting. Any treatment of the aged rats did not increase the total content of adenine nucleotides in the livers. Possible mechanisms of disturbances in adenine nucleotide metabolism upon ageing are discussed.
Effect of acetate on Na+-independent organic acid transport in the proximal tubules of the rat kidney]	At 20 degrees when active transport of an organic acid - fluorescein in superficial proximal tubules of surviving rat kidney does not depend on the external Na, the capability of acetate (as well as succinate and D,L-leucine) of stimulating the fluorescein uptake in the tubules was studied. As it turned out, acetate and leucine stimulated the fluorescein uptake at 120 mM of Na in the bath medium but had no effect at 10 mM of Na. Succinate has a biphasic effect on the fluorescein transport (stimulation at low succinate concentration), which does not depend on Na concentration in the medium. The effect of acetate disappears with the presence of ouabain in the medium. The stimulation of fluorescein uptake by acetate is accompanied by somewhat increased degree of reduction of cellular pyridine nucleotides. Pyridine nucleotides are reduced more markedly in the presence of ouabain or in the absence of Na from the bath medium. The disappearance of acetate effect on the fluorescein transport is explained by the fact of transition of cell mitochondria in the inactive state 4, due to the decrease in the level of cellular ADP when Na, K-ATPase is inhibited by ouabain or by diminution of tissue Na+ concentration.
Kinetics of glutamine-efflux from liver mitochondria loaded with the 14C-Labeled substrate.	Glutamine transport across the inner membrane of rat liver mitochondria was studied by the method of loading the organelles with [14C]glutamine and by measuring efflux of the metabolite at 0 degree C. The release of [14C]glutamine from loaded mitochondria was prevented by mersalyl, whereas the efflux was started by the addition of glutathione. The rate of glutamine efflux from the mitochondria was measured by the inhibitor stop technique with mersalyl plus N-ethylmaleimide. It was found that up to 10 mM glutamine there is no significant activity of glutaminase, whereas at about 20 mM of the substrate the enzyme is activated. The rate of the efflux measured after the addition of the optimal amount of glutathione was 10 nmol glutamine/min per mg protein. This is 5-times faster than the rate of glutaminase activity at 0 degree C. The pH optimum of glutamine carrier is between 6.5 and 7.0. Low concentration of succinate inhibits the efflux due to formation of pH gradient in coupled mitochondria, whereas a higher concentration of succinate inhibits the carrier directly. 2-Oxoglutarate and glutamate strongly inhibit the rate of glutamine efflux, the inhibition by glutamate being very pronounced at its physiological concentration. D-Glutamine does not inhibit the rate of the efflux, indicating that the transport of L-glutamine is stereospecific.
Reactions to contrast media: testing the CNS hypothesis.	Sodium iothalamate was injected intravenously into mice to test the hypothesis that reactions to contrast media are controlled by the central nervous system. Particular emphasis was placed on (a) the effect of the limbic portion of the brain on the hypothalamus and (b) the outflow through the autonomic nervous system. Diazepam and hexamethonium significantly affected the LD50; in addition, in comparison trials with control mice, they markedly decreased the death rate (p < 0.0005). High doses of methylprednisolone sodium succinate, given every 6 hours before the contrast medium, had no effect.
Glyoxylate bypass enzymes in Yersinia species and multiple forms of isocitrate lyase in Yersinia pestis.	Isocitrate lyase and malate synthase, the two unique enzymes of the glyoxylate cycle, were detected in crude extracts of Yersinia pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, and Y. enterocolitica. Y. pestis, unlike Escherichia coli and the other yersiniae tested, yielded two forms of isocitrate lyase during growth on acetate. These forms differed in electrophoretic mobility and temperature optima. One form (A) was present during growth on acetate, but was absent during growth on alternate carbon sources such as glucose. The second form (B) was not constitutive, but was found during growth on acetate, glucose, xylose, or other complex carbon sources. Itaconate, a succinate analog which inhibited both forms of isocitrate lyase in crude extracts, did not affect the growth of Y. pestis under conditions where little isocitrate lyase activity was detected. This inhibitor, however, retarded the growth of Y. pestis under conditions where acetate was provided as the primary carbon and energy source as well as under all conditions in which either form of isocitrate lyase was evident. This suggests that the B form may play an important role in the growth of this bacterium under conditions where a requirement for the classical anaplerotic sequence involving this enzyme is not apparent.
Half-of-the-sites reactivity in the malate thiokinase reaction.	Malate thiokinase catalyzes the reversible formation of malyl-CoA or succinyl-CoA from ATP, CoA, and malate or succinate, respectively. Incubation of the enzyme with succinyl-CoA results in the formation of a tight complex in which 4 succinyl-CoA molecules are bound/alpha 4 beta 4 tetramer. Denaturation of the enzyme with urea or sodium dodecyl sulfate releases succinyl-CoA from the enzyme. Enzyme-bound succinyl-CoA is also released by reaction with ADP + Pi (reverse reaction) or by reaction with arsenate (arsenolysis reaction). Addition of ATP to enzyme containing 4 mol of bound succinyl-CoA/mol of enzyme leads to the loss of 2 of the molecules of bound succinyl-CoA with the concomitant incorporation of 2 molecules of phosphate into the enzyme. In a single turnover experiment in which enzyme containing 2 mol of bound succinyl-CoA and 2 mol of phosphate/mol of alpha 4 beta 4 tetramer was incubated with succinate plus CoA, only phosphate was released from the enzyme. Isolation of the enzyme from a reaction mixture undergoing catalysis showed 2 mol of succinyl-CoA bound/enzyme tetramer. These results suggest that, during steady state catalysis, approximately 2 molecules of succinyl-CoA are bound/tetramer, and that malate thiokinase exhibits half-of-the-sites reactivity.
Methylprednisolone and membrane properties of primary cultures of mouse spinal cord.	The present study attempts to define the capacity of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MP) to protect neuronal membranes against a free radical challenge in primary cultures of fetal mouse spinal cord. Incubation of these cultures with MP significantly increased the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity, an effect that was blocked by the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomysin D and the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, suggesting an induction of protein synthesis by MP. In contrast, incubation with FeCl2 for 1 or 2 h significantly inhibited Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and elevated the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Pretreatment with MP prevented the rise in TBARS and partially prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity for the first hour of FeCl2 incubation, an effect that was lost during the second hour. A second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2 partially restored Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and reduced TBARS levels after the second hour of exposure to FeCl2. Co-incubation of MP with cycloheximide completely prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity seen after a 2-h incubation with FeCl2 and eliminated the need for a second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2. These findings suggest a capacity for rapid protein induction and antioxidant activity for MP in vitro.
Inhibitors of erythroid colony forming cells in sera of azotemic patients with anemia of renal disease.	1. The plasma clot method of McLeod, et al8 was used to study the inhibitors of erythroid colony forming cells (CFU-E and BFU-E) in sera of patients with anemia of uremia. 2. Compared to sera from hematologically normal human subjects, sera from undialyzed patients with anemia of uremia produced a significant inhibition of CFU-E and BFU-E. 3. A marked reduction in the inhibitor(s) of CFU-E was seen in sera of 3 out of 4 patients following 16 wks of intermittent hemodialysis. 4. Creatinine, guanidine, guanidinosuccinic acid and guanidinobutyric acid had no effect on the erythroid colony forming cells. 5. Together with the relative erythropoietin deficiency, inhibitor(s) of the erythroid progenitor cell compartment may play a major role in the mechanism of the anemia of renal insufficiency.
Buffer composition mediates a switch between cooperative and independent binding of an initiator protein to DNA.	The regulation of many biological processes, including DNA replication, is frequently achieved by protein-protein interactions, as well as protein-DNA interactions. Multiple protein-binding sites are often involved. For example, the replication of plasmid R6K involves binding of the initiator protein pi to seven 22-bp direct repeats (DR) in the gamma origin of replication (gamma ori). A mutant protein pi S87N has been isolated, that in Tris.borate buffer (TB) binds cooperatively to seven DR, whereas wild-type (wt) pi binds independently [Filutowicz et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 22 (1994) 4211-4215]. Surprisingly, we found that wt pi can also bind cooperatively when Tris.acetate (TA), Tris.succinate or Tris.glutamate buffers are used instead of TB. The cooperative binding of the wt pi protein was also observed in the TB buffer at high concentrations of Na2EDTA. These results suggest that pi may be able to assume two functionally distinct conformations as a result of either mutation or buffer composition. Moreover, we found that the mode of pi binding is determined not by the composition of the buffer in which the reaction was assembled, but by the composition of the electrophoresis buffer. We discuss the general implications of these findings.
Glu-50 in the catalytic chain of Escherichia coli aspartate transcarbamoylase plays a crucial role in the stability of the R quaternary structure.	Glu-50 of aspartate transcarbamoylase from Escherichia coli forms a set of interdomain bridging interactions between the 2 domains of the catalytic chain; these interactions are critical for stabilization of the high-activity high-affinity form of the enzyme. The mutant enzyme with an alanine substituted for Glu-50 (Glu-50-->Ala) exhibits significantly reduced activity, little cooperativity, and altered regulatory behavior (Newton CJ, Kantrowitz ER, 1990, Biochemistry 29:1444-1451). A study of the structural consequences of replacing Glu-50 by alanine using solution X-ray scattering is reported here. Correspondingly, in the absence of substrates, the mutant enzyme is in the same, so-called T quaternary conformation as is the wild-type enzyme. In the presence of a saturating concentration of the bisubstrate analog N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA), the mutant enzyme is in the same, so-called R quaternary conformation as the wild-type enzyme. However, the Glu-50-->Ala enzyme differs from the wild-type enzyme, in that its scattering pattern is hardly altered by a combination of carbamoyl phosphate and succinate. Addition of ATP under these conditions does result in a slight shift toward the R structure. Steady-state kinetic studies indicate that, in contrast to the wild-type enzyme, the Glu-50-->Ala enzyme is activated by PALA at saturating concentrations of carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, and that PALA increases the affinity of the mutant enzyme for aspartate. These data suggest that the enzyme does not undergo the normal T to R transition upon binding of the physiological substrates and verifies the previous suggestion that the interdomain bridging interactions involving Glu-50 are critical for the creation of the high-activity, high-affinity R state of the enzyme.
The effect of pilocarpine on ocular levobunolol absorption from ophthalmic solutions.	Studies in vitro and in vivo were conducted to investigate the effect of pilocarpine on ocular absorption of levobunolol when both drugs were formulated in one solution dosage. The ocular absorption of levobunolol is pH-dependent. Due to the large buffering capacity of pilocarpine at pH 5.5, the ocular absorption of levobunolol from pilocarpine-containing solutions was reduced by approximately four-fold as compared to a non-pilocarpine-containing formulation at pH 7.2. The ocular absorption of levobunolol in the presence of pilocarpine at acidic pH was enhanced by the use of sulfosuccinates, specifically Schercopol CMS.
Effect of a sublethal dose of sodium nitrite on respiration and oxidative phosphorylation in the rat liver mitochondria]	A sublethal dose of sodium nitrates (60 mg/kg) 30 min after intraperitoneal administration to rats increases ADP-stimulated respiration, when succinate is used as the substrate. Its stimulating action is associated with an increase of efficiency of oxygen utilization. Intraperitoneal administration of succinic acid in a dose of 25 mg/kg normalizes changes induced by nitrites. Stress and hypoxic factors in the action of nitrites on aerobic processes in mitochondria are discussed.
Enhancement by succinic acid dimethyl ester of insulin release evoked by D-glucose and glimepiride in the perfused pancreas of normoglycemic and hyperglycemic rats.	The present study deals with the insulinotropic action of the dimethyl ester of succinic acid (SAD), considered as a potential tool for the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. In the perfused pancreas prepared from either euglycemic rats or animals first infused for 48 hours with a solution of D-glucose, SAD (10 mM) markedly enhanced insulin output evoked by a high concentration of D-glucose (16.7 mM), whether in the absence or presence of glimepiride (0.5 microM). The succinate ester failed, however, to affect glucagon secretion. Thus, SAD indeed displays favourable attributes for stimulation of insulin release in type 2 diabetes, with emphasis on its insulinotropic efficiency at high concentrations of D-glucose in an animal model of B-cell glucotoxicity.
Inhibition of metalloproteinase activity of rheumatoid arthritis synovial cells by a new inhibitor [BE16627B; L-N-(N-hydroxy-2-isobutylsuccinamoyl)-seryl-L-valine].	The effect of a new metalloproteinase (MP) inhibitor [BE16627B; L-N-(N-hydroxy-2-isobutylsuccinamoyl)-seryl-L-valine, MW: 375.2] isolated from Streptomyces sp. was evaluated by using primary cultures of synovial cells from rheumatoid arthritis patients. BE16627B selectively inhibited MPs such as human stromelysin and 92 kD gelatinase. After the cells were cultured with BE16627B for 5 days, BE16627B inhibited MP activity in the primary culture supernatants from synovial cells in a dose-dependent fashion without showing apparent cytotoxicity or affecting the production and secretion of MPs. Its IC50 for active collagenolysis before activation by trypsin was 25 microM.
Inhibitors of HIV-1 replication [corrected; erratum to be published] that inhibit HIV integrase.	HIV-1 replication depends on the viral enzyme integrase that mediates integration of a DNA copy of the virus into the host cell genome. This enzyme represents a novel target to which antiviral agents might be directed. Three compounds, 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid, 1-methoxyoxalyl-3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid, and L-chicoric acid, inhibit HIV-1 integrase in biochemical assays at concentrations ranging from 0.06-0.66 microgram/ml; furthermore, these compounds inhibit HIV-1 replication in tissue culture at 1-4 microgram/ml. The toxic concentrations of these compounds are fully 100-fold greater than their antiviral concentrations. These compounds represent a potentially important new class of antiviral agents that may contribute to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of viral integration. Thus, the dicaffeoylquinic acids are promising leads to new anti-HIV therapeutics and offer a significant advance in the search for new HIV enzyme targets as they are both specific for HIV-1 integrase and active against HIV-1 in tissue culture.
Serotonin enhances the production of type IV collagen by human mesangial cells.	The plasma concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in diabetic patients is higher than that in normal subjects. Since recent reports have demonstrated the presence of 5-HT2A receptor in glomerular mesangial cells, it is possible that 5-HT may be involved in the development of diabetic nephropathy through the 5-HT2A receptor in mesangial cells. Because expansion of the glomerular mesangial lesion is a characteristic feature of diabetic nephropathy, we examined the effect of 5-HT on the production of type IV collagen by human mesangial cells.
AZT side effect on mitochondria does not depend on either inhibition of electron flow or mitochondrial uncoupling.	The mitochondrial myopathy associated with long-term AZT therapy limits the clinical efficacy of this drug in AIDS therapy. Thus, in order to determine how AZT can affect mitochondria bioenergetics, the capability of AZT to both uncouple oxidative phosphorylation and inhibit electron flow in isolated rat liver mitochondria was investigated. The failure of AZT to oxidize intramitochondrial pyridine nucleotides, to stimulate mitochondrial swelling in K+-acetate plus valinomycin or to cause ATP hydrolysis shows that AZT is not an uncoupler.
Vasoactive effects of cimicifugic acids C and D, and fukinolic acid in cimicifuga rhizome.	Vasoactive effects of cimicifugic acids A-E, fukinolic acid and fukiic acid isolated from Cimicifuga plants were investigated using rat aortic strips. Cimicifugic acid D and fukinolic acid at 3x10(-4) M caused a sustained, slowly developing relaxation of aortic strips precontracted with norepinephrine (NE) in preparations with or without endothelium. Cimicifugic acid C inversely caused a weak contraction. Cimicifugic acids A, B and E and fukiic acid showed no vasoactivity at 3x10(-4) M. Cimicifugic acids A-E and fukinolic acid are esters between cinnamic acids and the hydroxyl group of benzyltartaric acids. For the manifestation of vasoactivity in the rat aorta, it is concluded that in the cinnamic acid moiety, a caffeoyl group might be necessary for the relaxation activity, and the p-coumaroyl group causes contraction. Concentration response curves for the Ca2+-induced contracture of depolarized aortic strips with isotonic high K+ were not affected by cimicifugic acid D or fukinolic acid. The Ca2+-induced contraction of aortic strips, preincubated with 10(-6) M NE in the presence of 10(-6) M nicardipine and 0.01 mM EGTA in Ca2+-free solution, were inhibited by cimicifugic acid D and fukinolic acid. These results indicated that the inhibition by cimicifugic acid D and fukinolic acid of the NE-induced contraction of rat aorta are attributable to the suppression of Ca2+ influx from the extracellular space enhanced by NE.
Insulinotropic action of the polyacetate esters of two non-nutrient monosaccharides in normal and diabetic rats.	The polyacetate esters of certain non-nutrient monosaccharides, such as L-glucose and 2-deoxy-D-glucose, were recently reported to display positive insulinotropic action and, hence, proposed as possible tools for stimulation of insulin release in non-insulin-dependent diabetes. In the present study, the secretory response to four carbohydrate esters was compared in islets of both normal and hereditary diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats. Three major findings are documented. First, in islets exposed to the dimethyl ester of succinic acid (10.0 mmol/l), D-mannoheptulose hexaacetate (1.7 mmol/l) was found to stimulate insulin release in both normal and diabetic rats. Second, relative to the control value recorded in the sole presence of the succinic acid ester, the increments in insulin output evoked by D-mannoheptulose hexaacetate, alpha-L-glucose pentaacetate and beta-D-glucose pentaacetate (all 1.7 mmol/l) were not lower and, on occasion, even higher in diabetic rats than in control animals. Last, the sole exception to such a rule was encountered in islets exposed to beta-L-glucose pentaacetate, in which case the hexose moiety of the ester might mimic the inhibitory effect of alpha-D-glucopyranose upon phosphorylase a-catalyzed glycogenolysis in islets from diabetic rats. These findings reinforce the concept that the insulinotropic action of monosaccharide esters is not solely attributable to the catabolism of their carbohydrate moiety but also to a direct effect of the esters themselves upon a yet unidentified receptor system. They also provide further support to the possible use of the esters of non-nutrient monosaccharides as insulinotropic tools in type-2 diabetes.
Improvement of exercise capacity by sarpogrelate as a result of augmented collateral circulation in patients with effort angina.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether a serotonin blocker, sarpogrelate, improves exercise capacity as a result of vasodilation of coronary collateral channels in patients with effort angina.
