Fed-batch culture of a metabolically engineered Escherichia coli strain designed for high-level succinate production and yield under aerobic conditions.	An aerobic succinate production system developed by Lin et al. (Metab Eng, in press) is capable of achieving the maximum theoretical succinate yield of 1.0 mol/mol glucose for aerobic conditions. It also exhibits high succinate productivity. This succinate production system is a mutant E. coli strain with five pathways inactivated: DeltasdhAB, Delta(ackA-pta), DeltapoxB, DeltaiclR, and DeltaptsG. The mutant strain also overexpresses Sorghum vulgare pepc. This mutant strain is designated HL27659k(pKK313). Fed-batch reactor experiments were performed for the strain HL27659k(pKK313) under aerobic conditions to determine and demonstrate its capacity for high-level succinate production. Results showed that it could produce 58.3 g/l of succinate in 59 h under complete aerobic conditions. Throughout the entire fermentation the average succinate yield was 0.94+/-0.07 mol/mol glucose, the average productivity was 1.08+/-0.06 g/l-h, and the average specific productivity was 89.77+/-3.40 mg/g-h. Strain HL27659k (pKK313) is, thus, capable of large-scale succinate production under aerobic conditions. The results also showed that the aerobic succinate production system using the designed strain HL27659k(pKK313) is more practical than conventional anaerobic succinate production systems. It has remarkable potential for industrial-scale succinate production and process optimization.
Recovery of succinic acid from fermentation broth.	Succinic acid is of high interest as bio-feedstock for the chemical industry. It is a precursor for a variety of many other chemicals, e.g. 1,4-butandiol, tetrahydrofuran, biodegradable polymers and fumaric acid. Besides optimized production strains and fermentation processes it is indispensable to develop cost-saving and energy-effective downstream processes to compete with the current petrochemical production process. Various methods such as precipitation, sorption and ion exchange, electrodialysis, and liquid-liquid extraction have been investigated for the recovery of succinic acid from fermentation broth and are reviewed critically here.
