Kinetic microplate-based assays for inhibitors of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) and succinate:cytochrome c oxidoreductase.	Kinetic microplate-based assays for both mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) and succinate:cytochrome c oxidoreductase using insect submitochondrial particles as the source of the enzyme activities have been developed. These assays have been used to design high-throughput screens for inhibitors of these mitochondrial electron transfer activities to assess their intrinsic in vitro efficacies as potential pesticides. These methods can be used to test up to 60 compounds per day without the use of automated sample handling and diluting technology. The accuracy, specificity, and reproducibility of the microplate methods compared well with conventional spectrophotometer-based assays.
Target identification of drug induced mitochondrial toxicity using immunocapture based OXPHOS activity assays.	Mitochondrial dysfunction has been shown to be a pharmacotoxicological response to a variety of currently-marketed drugs. In order to reduce attrition due to mitochondrial toxicity, high throughput-applicable screens are needed for early stage drug discovery. We describe, here, a set of immunocapture based assays to identify compounds that directly inhibit four of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) complexes: I, II, IV, and V. Intra- and inter-assay variation were determined and specificity tested by using classical mitochondrial inhibitors. Twenty drugs, some with known mitochondrial toxicity and others with no known mitochondrial liability, were studied. Direct inhibition of one or more of the OXPHOS complexes was identified for many of the drugs. Novel information was obtained for several drugs including ones with previously unknown effects on oxidative phosphorylation. A major advantage of the immunocapture approach is that it can be used throughout drug screening from early compound evaluation to clinical trials.
Characterization of mouse nuclear and mitochondrial mutants with increased resistance to cytochrome b inhibitors.	A series of mouse lines with increased resistance to respiratory inhibitors which block electron transport through the protonmotive cytochrome b of complex III have been isolated in this laboratory. We describe here the isolation of a mutant with increased resistance to HQNO (2-n-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide) whose phenotype is due to a nuclear mutation. At the cellular level, there is a severe reduction in respiration with the residual oxygen consumption being resistant to inhibitors of both ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase and cytochrome oxidase. At the mitochondrial level, there was a severe derangement in NADH oxidase activity. Electron transport through the succinate oxidase span of the respiratory chain and its coupling to oxidative phosphorylation are also reduced in this nuclear mutant but not to the same extent. It is concluded that the primary defect in the mutant lies within a nuclear gene encoding a component of complex I (NADH-ubiquinol oxidoreductase). In addition, further biochemical characterization of the mitochondrially inherited inhibitor-resistant mutants has demonstrated that they also show significant reductions in the efficiency of energy transduction and in the rate of cytochrome b electron transport.
The effects of nitric oxide on electron transport complexes.	The effect of nitric oxide on mitochondrial electron transfer complexes was studied by comparing the activities of nitric oxide-treated and untreated, deoxygenated samples of purified beef heart succinate-cytochrome c reductase, succinate-ubiquinone reductase, and ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase. More than 90% of succinate-cytochrome c reductase activity is lost during nitric oxide treatment. The activity of the succinate-ubiquinone reductase component of succinate-cytochrome c reductase decreases 95%, while the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase component is unaffected by nitric oxide. This inactivation is due primarily to the destruction of iron-sulfur clusters from succinate-ubiquinone reductase. When purified beef heart succinate-ubiquinone reductase was treated with nitric oxide, virtually all activity was irreversibly lost. The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of the treated complex showed typical iron-nitric oxide complex signals, confirming that inactivation is due to destruction of the iron-sulfur clusters. Similar results were obtained with purified Escherichia coli succinate-ubiquinone reductase. Pure beef heart ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase treated with nitric oxide loses 40% of its initial activity, but regains most of it (90-100 % after 24 h of incubation at 0 degrees C in the absence of nitric oxide. This suggests that ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase is protected from nitric oxide when complexed with succinate-ubiquinone reductase or that when split from succinate-ubiquinone reductase, ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase undergoes a conformational change which allows access of nitric oxide to the Rieske iron-sulfur center. Such access is not possible when ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase is complexed with succinate-ubiquinone reductase. The loss of ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase activity correlates with a decrease in the Rieske protein EPR signal intensity without formation of any new EPR signal. The Rieske iron-sulfur cluster signal is recovered after 24 h incubation in the absence of nitric oxide.
