Antithrombotic activity, bleeding effect and pharmacodynamics of a succinyl derivative of dermatan sulphate in rabbits.	This paper compares the pharmacological properties of a new succinyl dermatan sulphate derivative (Suc-DS) to those of the natural dermatan sulphate (DS). Suc-DS was on average 2-3 times more potent than DS in catalysing the inhibition of thrombin by heparin cofactor II and in prolonging the activated partial thromboplastin time and the thrombin clotting time. After bolus injection, Suc-DS was also 2-3 times more potent than DS to prevent experimental venous thrombosis in a Wessler model. Thromboplastin or human serum were used as the thrombogenic stimulus. In contrast, the bleeding effect assessed by rat tail transection technique was comparable. After bolus intravenous injection, the pharmacodynamics of Suc-DS indicated a lower volume of distribution, which was close to the plasma volume, and a slightly lower clearance of elimination. Therefore this chemical alteration of natural DS yields a new compound with an improved antithrombotic benefit/haemorrhagic risk ratio.
Succinic acidemia: a new syndrome of organic acidemia associated with congenital lactic acidosis and decreased NADH-cytochrome c reductase activity.	Two siblings with succinic acidemia, a hitherto unreported organic acidemia, were investigated. Succinic acidemia, lactic acidosis and respiratory distress were observed in one of the siblings, who died 37 days after birth, and succinic acidemia was also detected in the next sibling at the fetal stage. NADH-cytochrome c reductase activity was significantly low in both cases and NADH-ferricyanide reductase activity was also low in the fetal case, suggesting a complex I deficiency of the electron transport system in the mitochondrial membrane.
Conjugation of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase with succinylated gelatin: pharmacological activity and cell-lubricating function.	Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and succinylated gelatin (succinyl gelatin) were conjugated to improve in vivo pharmacological activity of SOD. Lysyl residues of human recombinant Cu,Zn-SOD were cross-linked with carboxyl residues of succinyl gelatin using 1-ethyl-3-[3- (dimethylamino)propyl]carbodiimide. Various chemical and pharmacokinetic parameters of the conjugate were determined. Analysis by atomic absorption spectrometry and amino acid composition revealed that the conjugate was composed of about 2.9 mol of succinyl gelatin (with a mean molecular weight of 23,000) to 1 mol of SOD and exhibited an apparent mean molecular weight of 98,000. The conjugate retained almost 100% of its original activity on a molar basis. When the succinyl gelatin-conjugated Cu,Zn-SOD (Suc-gel-SOD) was administered intravenously to mice, its plasma half-life was prolonged to 29.7 min compared with 4.5 min for native SOD. Tissue distribution analysis revealed that intravenously administered Suc-gel-SOD showed a much greater accumulation than native SOD in the liver followed by in decreasing order the kidney, the lung, and the spleen; native SOD was excreted more rapidly into urine before it accumulated in tissues. Furthermore, Suc-gel-SOD exhibited lower antigenicity and immunogenicity than native SOD, and it had a better therapeutic effect against ischemic edema of the foot pad in mice. The conjugate was found to accumulate more than native SOD in the ischemic foot pad. A newly added property of the conjugate is cell-lubricating activity, which facilitated cell passage through micropores and reduced hemolysis during cell passage in vitro.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Automatic system for the assay of guanidino compounds to assess uremic status and effect of hemodialysis.	An automated HPLC system coupled with fluorometry was established for the sensitive, rapid, and accurate assay of serum guanidines. Naturally fluorescent materials characteristic of the sera of uremic patients (uremic fluorescences) which interfere with the assay were removed simultaneously with deproteinization. Application of this method revealed that the uremic patients who are capable of excreting urine under hemodialysis therapy show low serum guanidinosuccinic acid levels. The interval between hemodialysis sessions in one of these patients was prolonged while monitoring guanidinosuccinic acid level using the present method without any hazardous effect.
