Stimulation of the multiplication of Micrococcus luteus by an autocrine growth factor.	Viable cells of Micrococcus luteus secrete a proteineous growth factor (Rpf) which promotes the resuscitation of dormant, nongrowing cells to yield normal, colony-forming bacteria. When washed M. luteus cells were used as an inoculum, there was a pronounced influence of Rpf on the true lag phase and cell growth on lactate minimal medium. In the absence of Rpf, there was no increase in colony-forming units for up to 10 days. When the inoculum contained less than 10(5) cells ml-1, macroscopically observable M. luteus growth was not obtained in succinate minimal medium unless Rpf was added. Incubation of M. luteus in the stationary phase for 100 h resulted in a failure of the cells to grow in lactate minimal medium from inocula of small size although the viability of these cells was close to 100% as estimated using agar plates made from lactate minimal medium or rich medium. The underestimation of viable cells by the most-probable-number (MPN) method in comparison with colony-forming units was equivalent to the requirement that at least 10(5) cells grown on succinate medium, 10(3) cells from old stationary phase, or approximately 10-500 washed cells are required per millilitre of inoculum for growth to lead to visible turbidity. The addition of Rpf in the MPN dilutions led to an increase of the viable cell numbers estimated to approximately the same levels as those determined by colony-forming units. Thus, a basic principle of microbiology - "one cell-one culture" - may not be applicable in some circumstances in which the metabolic activity of "starter" cells is not sufficient to produce enough autocrine growth factor to support cell multiplication.
Evidence of cytochrome P450-catalyzed cleavage of the ether bond of phenoxybutyrate herbicides in Rhodococcus erythropolis K2-3.	Bacterial strain Rhodococcus erythropolis K2-3 can cleave the ether bond of the phenoxybutyrate herbicides, i.e., 4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)butyrate (2,4-DB) and 4-(4-chloro-2-methylphenoxy)butyrate (MCPB), by an enzyme system that is constitutively expressed. The enzyme(s) involved were investigated in this study. The rate of disappearance of 2,4-DB determined in a whole cell assay amounted to 0.6 mmol/h x g(dry mass). Carbon monoxide difference spectra of dithionite-reduced whole cells and crude cell extracts suggested that strain K2-3 contains a soluble cytochrome P450 (P450), named P450(PB-1). The addition of various phenoxybutyrate substrates to crude cell extracts resulted in typical difference spectra following the type I pattern of substrate binding with P450. The rate of 2,4-DB cleavage was reduced by inhibitors of P450: 5 mM metyrapone and carbon monoxide at a CO/O2 ratio of 10 reduced the activity by about 20%, and 70%, respectively. The ether cleaving activity completely disappeared after disruption of the cells and could not be detected in crude extracts. To elucidate the enzymatic basis of this reaction, P450 was partially purified. With the resulting enzyme preparation, 2,4-DB cleavage activity was re-established, becoming measurable after the addition of either phenazine methosulfate or ferredoxin and ferredoxin/NADP oxidoreductase from spinach. We detected no activities attributable to alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase or NAD(P)H-dependent monooxygenase. These results collectively indicate that cleavage of the ether bond of phenoxybutyrate herbicides is catalyzed by P450-mediated activity in this strain. One of the products derived from this reaction is dichlorophenol, and comparative chromatographic analyses suggest that the other product is a C4-carbonic acid, most likely succinic semialdehyde/succinate.
tert-Butyl hydroperoxide-induced radical production in rat liver mitochondria.	When rat liver mitochondria are treated with tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP) in the presence of the spin trap 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide (DMPO), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) signals are detected attributable to spin adducts resulting from the trapping of methyl, tert-butoxyl, and tert-butylperoxyl radicals. The addition of respiratory substrate results in a 3- to 7.5-fold increase in the signal intensity of the DMPO/methyl adduct, no change in the signal intensity of the DMPO/tert-butoxyl adduct, and complete loss of the DMPO/tert-butylperoxyl adduct signal. The magnitude of increase of methyl radical production in the presence of respiratory substrate is related to the respiratory control ratio (RCR) of the mitochondrial preparation. In the presence of antimycin A, which blocks electron flow between cytochromes b and c1, no stimulation of methyl radical production is detected with respiratory substrate. Stimulation of methyl radical production by the addition of respiratory substrate is detected in cytochrome c-depleted mitochondria. A similar increase in methyl radical production is detected when ferrous cytochrome c is treated with TBHP in the presence of DMPO (as compared to when ferricytochrome c is used). These results indicate that TBHP is reduced directly by either cytochrome c1, cytochrome c, or by both of these electron transport chain components in mitochondria undergoing state 4 respiration.
Influence of succinate on the effectiveness of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in surviving slices of rat hippocampus]	Sodium succinate has been studied for its influence on the efficiency of glutamate transmission in the Schaffer collateral synapses and duration of its potentiation state caused by high-frequency stimulation in surviving hippocampal slices. It is shown that administration of sodium succinate (50 mg/kg i. p.) to rats 30 min prior to decapitation stabilizes glutamate transmission in field CA1 of the rat hippocampal slices and increases duration of its potentiation state.
Characterization of the transport of tri- and dicarboxylates by pig intestinal brush-border membrane vesicles.	1. Transport of citrate and fumarate across the pig intestinal brush-border membrane (BBM) was investigated using isolated BBM vesicles. 2. Citrate and fumarate uptake was stimulated by an inwardly directed Na+ gradient consistent with Na+/citrate (fumarate) co-transport. Cis-inhibition and trans-stimulation experiments strongly suggest the existence of a common transport site for tri- and dicarboxylates. 3. The protonated forms of citrate (citrate-1, citrate-2) seem to be much better transported than citrate-3, indicated by the strong stimulation of citrate uptake at an extravesicular pH of 5.6 compared to pH 7.8. 4. Uptake of tri- and dicarboxylates seems to be potential-sensitive since citrate and in particular fumarate transport was enhanced by an inside negative potential difference. 5. Kinetics of succinate transport revealed a single carrier-mediated component with apparent kinetic constants of 0.43 nmol/mg protein-3 s (Vmax) and 0.14 mmol/l (Km).
Modulation of the mitochondrial cyclosporin A-sensitive permeability transition pore by the proton electrochemical gradient. Evidence that the pore can be opened by membrane depolarization.	This paper reports an investigation on the relationship between the proton electrochemical gradient (delta mu H+) and the cyclosporin A-sensitive permeability transition pore (PTP) in rat liver mitochondria. Using the SH group cross-linker phenylarsine oxide as the inducer, we show that both matrix pH and the membrane potential can modulate the process of PTP induction independently of Ca2+. We find that membrane depolarization induces the PTP per se when pHi is above 7.0, while at acidic matrix pH values PTP induction is effectively prevented. Since Ca2+ uptake leads to major modifications of the delta mu H+ (i.e. matrix alkalinization and membrane depolarization), we have explored the possibility that the Ca(2+)-induced changes of the delta mu H+ may contribute to PTP induction by Ca2+. Our data in mitochondria treated with Ca2+ plus N-ethylmaleimide and Ca2+ plus phosphate show that membrane depolarization is a powerful inducer of the PTP. Taken together, our observations indicate that the PTP can be controlled directly by the delta mu H+ both in the absence and presence of Ca2+, and suggest that a collapse of the membrane potential may be the cause rather than the consequence of PTP induction under many experimental conditions. Thus, many inducers may converge on dissipation of the membrane potential component of the delta mu H+ by a variety of mechanisms.
EVIDENCE FOR A TRICARBOXYLIC ACID CYCLE IN MYCOPLASMA HOMINIS.	VanDemark, P. J. (Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.), and P. F. Smith. Evidence for a tricarboxylic acid cycle in Mycoplasma hominis. J. Bacteriol. 88:1602-1607. 1964.-Resting cells of acetate-grown Mycoplasma hominis strain 07 oxidized the various intermediates of the tricarboxylic and glyoxylate cycles, with the exception of sodium citrate and glyoxylate. Extracts of these cells possessed isocitric dehydrogenase, isocitratase, alpha-ketoglutaric dehydrogenase, succinic dehydrogenase, fumarase, malic dehydrogenase, citratase, and acetyl coenzyme A kinase activities. With the assay conditions employed, condensing enzyme, malate synthetase, and phosphotransacetylase activities were negligible. Incubation of sodium acetate-2-C(14) with the various intermediates of the tricarboxylic acid cycle in the presence of cell-free extracts resulted in exchange of the isotope with these compounds as well as the formation of other labeled intermediates of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Oxidation of sodium acetate-2-C(14) alone resulted in the formation of labeled succinate, fumarate, and malate.
13C-NMR study of autotrophic CO2 fixation pathways in the sulfur-reducing Archaebacterium Thermoproteus neutrophilus and in the phototrophic Eubacterium Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	The unresolved autotrophic CO2 fixation pathways in the sulfur-reducing Archaebacterium Thermoproteus neutrophilus and in the phototrophic Eubacterium Chloroflexus aurantiacus have been investigated. Autotrophically growing cultures were labelled with [1,4-13C1]succinate, and the 13C pattern in cell constituents was determined by 1H- and 13C-NMR spectroscopy of purified amino acids and other cell constituents. In both organisms succinate contributed to less than 10% of cell carbon, the major part of carbon originated from CO2. All cell constituents became 13C-labelled, but different patterns were observed in the two organisms. This proves that two different cyclic CO2 fixation pathways are operating in autotrophic carbon assimilation in both of which succinate is an intermediate. The 13C-labelling pattern in T. neutrophilus is consistent with the operation of a reductive citric acid cycle and rules out any other known autotrophic CO2 fixation pathway. Surprisingly, the proffered [1,4-13C1]succinate was partially converted to double-labelled [3,4-13C2]glutamate, but not to double-labelled aspartate. These findings suggest that the conversion of citrate to 2-oxoglutarate is readily reversible under the growth conditions used, and a reversible citrate cleavage reaction is proposed. The 13C-labelling pattern in C. aurantiacus disagrees with any of the established CO2 fixation pathways; it therefore demands a novel autotrophic CO2 fixation cycle in which 3-hydroxypropionate and succinate are likely intermediates. The bacterium excreted substantial amounts of 3-hydroxypropionate (5 mM) and succinate (0.5 mM) at the end of autotrophic growth. Autotrophically grown Chloroflexus cells contained acetyl-CoA carboxylase and propionyl-CoA carboxylase activity. These enzymes are proposed to be the main CO2-fixing enzymes resulting in malonyl-CoA and methylmalonyl-CoA formation; from these carboxylation products 3-hydroxypropionate and succinate, respectively, can be formed.
Dicarboxylate transport in renal basolateral and brush-border membrane vesicles.	Characteristics of succinate transport were determined in basolateral and brush-border membrane vesicles (BLMV and BBMV, respectively) isolated in parallel from rabbit renal cortex. The uptake of succinate was markedly stimulated by the imposition of an inwardly directed Na+ gradient, showing an "overshoot" phenomenon in both membrane preparations. The stimulation of succinate uptake by an inwardly directed Na+ gradient was not significantly affected by pH clamp or inhibition of Na(+)-H+ exchange. The Na(+)-dependent and -independent succinate uptakes were not stimulated by an outwardly directed pH gradient. The Na dependence of succinate uptake exhibited sigmoidal kinetics, with Hill coefficients of 2.17 and 2.38 in BLMV and BBMV, respectively. The Na(+)-dependent succinate uptake by BLMV and BBMV was stimulated by a valinomycin-induced inside-negative potential. The Na(+)-dependent succinate uptake by BLMV and BBMV followed a simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics, with an apparent Km of 22.20 +/- 4.08 and 71.52 +/- 0.14 microM and a Vmax of 39.0 +/- 3.72 and 70.20 +/- 0.96 nmol/(mg.min), respectively. The substrate specificity and the inhibitor sensitivity of the succinate transport system appeared to be very similar in both membranes. These results indicate that both the renal brush-border and basolateral membranes possess the Na(+)-dependent dicarboxylate transport system with very similar properties but with different substrate affinity and transport capacity.
Plant and environmental sensory signals control the expression of hrp genes in Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola.	The hrp genes of Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola control the development of primary disease symptoms in bean plants and the elicitation of the hypersensitive response in resistant plants. We examined the expression of the seven operons located in the 22-kb hrp cluster (L. G. Rahme, M. N. Mindrinos, and N. J. Panopoulos, J. Bacteriol. 173:575-586, 1991) in planta and in vitro under different physiological and nutritional conditions by using chromosomally located hrp::inaZ reporter fusions. We show that (i) a plant signal(s) is specifically required for the induction of the seven hrp operons, during both compatible and incompatible interactions; (ii) hrpL and hrpRS are regulated by different mechanisms in planta and in vitro; and (iii) expression of individual hrp loci is differentially affected by pH, osmotic strength, and type of carbon source: hrpAB, hrpC, and hrpD were downregulated similarly by osmolarity, pH, and certain carbon sources; hrpE expression was affected strongly by pH and carbon substrate and slightly by osmolarity; and hrpF was not substantially affected by any of these factors. These findings suggest complex signaling mechanisms taking place during plant-pathogen interactions.
Flow-force relationships during energy transfer between mitochondrial proton pumps.	The effect of inhibitors of proton pumps, of uncouplers and of permeant ions on the relationship between input force, delta mu H+, and output flows of the ATPase, redox and transhydrogenase H(+)-pumps in submitochondrial particles was investigated. It is concluded that: (1) The decrease of output flow of the transhydrogenase proton pump, defined as the rate of reduction of NADP+ by NADH, is linearily correlated with the decrease of input force, delta mu H+, in an extended range of delta mu H+, independently of whether the H(+)-generating pump is the ATPase or a redox pump, or whether delta mu H+ is depressed by inhibitors of the H(+)-generating pump such as oligomycin or malonate, or by uncouplers. (2) The output flows of the ATPase and of the site I redox H(+)-pumps exhibit a steep dependence on delta mu H+. The flow-force relationships differ depending on whether the depression of delta mu H+ is induced by inhibitors of the H(+)-generating pump, by uncouplers or by lipophilic anions. (3) With the ATPase as H(+)-consuming pump, at equivalent delta mu H+ values, the output flow is more markedly inhibited by malonate than by uncouplers; the latter, however, are more inhibitory than lipophilic anions such as ClO4-. With redox site I as proton-consuming pump, at equivalent delta mu H+ values, the output flow is more markedly inhibited by oligomycin than by uncouplers; again, uncouplers are more inhibitory than ClO4-. (4) The results provide further support for a delocalized interaction of transhydrogenase with other H(+)-pumps.
Succinylacetone effects on renal tubular phosphate metabolism: a model for experimental renal Fanconi syndrome.	Phosphaturia is a prominent component of the renal Fanconi syndrome associated with the autosomal recessive disease, hereditary tyrosinemia. Succinylacetone (SA), the metabolic by-product of the enzyme deficiency, can be shown to produce multiple adverse effects on rat renal epithelial cell function in vitro. With the use of this compound, we have examined its interaction with Pi handling by the renal tubule cell in order to form a basis for understanding the effects of endogenously generated SA in causing phosphaturia in the genetically affected kidney. In this report we have shown complete inhibition of sodium-dependent phosphate uptake by renal brush border membrane vesicles, decreased ATP production by the SA-exposed renal tubule, and reversible inhibition of State 3 oxidation of glutamate by isolated renal mitochondria. We conclude that the phosphaturia observed in hereditary tyrosinemia results from multiple metabolic effects of SA on the renal tubule which are additive and lead to intracellular Pi depletion and diminished ATP production.
Effect of corticosterone treatment on energy metabolism in rat liver mitochondria.	1. Effect of in vivo treatment (40 mg/kg body wt) with corticosterone on energy metabolism in rat liver mitochondria was examined under acute and chronic conditions in 20-, 35- and 60-day-old rats. 2. Acute treatment did not affect body or liver weight. However, chronic treatment caused increased liver weight in the former two age groups; in the 60-day-old animals the liver weight decreased. 3. Acute treatment resulted in a generalized decrease in state 3 respiration rates and state 4 respiration rates without having any significant effect on ADP/O ratios with glutamate, succinate and ascorbate + TMPD as substrates. However, rates of ATP synthesis decreased significantly. The effect was age-dependent, older animals showed increased resistance. 4. Chronic treatment resulted in uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation without having significant effects on respiration rates. Once again, the effects were age-dependent. Consequently, the ATP synthesis rates were significantly lowered. However, it was apparent that the underlying mechanisms were entirely different. 5. With succinate as the substrate the state 3 respiration rates increased with age to reach adult values by day 60. The coupling efficiency was also exhibited via maturational changes.
Multiple abnormalities in insulin responses to nonglucose nutrients in neonatally streptozotocin diabetic rats.	Insulin responses to nutrient secretagogues were investigated in neonatally streptozotocin-injected (n-STZ) rats, i.e. an animal model of noninsulin-dependent diabetes. In the perfused pancreas 16 mM L-glutamine induced and 10 mM octanoate tended to induce (P less than 0.2) higher responses in n-STZ than in nondiabetic rats. Addition of 3.9 mM glucose potentiated responses to glutamine and octanoate more in n-STZ (3.3- and 3.4-fold) than in nondiabetic rats (1.5- and 1.9-fold). Conversely, the succinate derivative succinate monomethylester (Succ ME) induced lesser response in n-STZ rats (57% of that in nondiabetic rats) and coperfusion with 3.9 mM glucose increased the response less in n-STZ (1.4-fold) than in nondiabetic rats (3.8-fold). Pyruvate (20 mM) mimicked the potency of 3.9 mM glucose, i.e. pyruvate potentiated the response to Succ ME only nonsignificantly (1.2-fold) in n-STZ but markedly (4.9-fold) in nondiabetic rats. Dichloroacetate (20 mM) failed to affect the response to Succ ME together with pyruvate in n-STZ rats. To investigate the role of hyperglycemia for octanoate-induced secretion, nondiabetic rats were made hyperglycemic by 48-h glucose infusions. Octanoate-induced secretion from perfused pancreas was enhanced 3.8-fold after moderate hyperglycemia (13.2 +/- 0.6 mM) and 17-fold after marked hyperglycemia (22.7 +/- 0.6 mM). This positive association between response and degree of hyperglycemia was not found with a nonnutrient secretagogue, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. Results with glutamine and octanoate indicate that oxidation of nonglucose nutrients which normally do not regulate secretion is enhanced secondary to chronic hyperglycemia. Results with Succ ME and pyruvate suggest that early steps of oxidation of glucose are impaired in n-STZ rats.
Trypanosoma (Nannomonas) congolense: changes in respiratory metabolism during the life cycle.	All four life cycle stages (bloodstream, procyclic, epimastigote, and metacyclic) of Trypanosoma congolense IL 3000 were assayed with an oxygen electrode (polarograph) for the presence of terminal oxidases and carbon-source preference. In addition, these stages were used for histochemical analysis of mitochondrial activity using rhodamine 123, nitroblue tetrazolium, and diaminobenzidine. Morphometry was used to compare mitochondrial volumes and surface area among the different life cycle stages. It was found that in contrast to epimastigote forms, which were metabolically almost identical to procyclic forms, metacyclic forms showed characteristics of, and seemed preadapted to, differentiation into the bloodstream stage. While mitochondrial NAD+ diaphorase activity and an electrochemical potential were detected in all life cycle stages, metacyclic metabolism was glucose-based and terminal oxidase activity was primarily dependent upon the trypanosome alternative oxidase with the contribution of cyanide-sensitive respiration accounting for only 20-30% of the total respiratory capacity.
Covalent and non-covalent inhibitors of the phosphate transporter of sarcoplasmic reticulum.	The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of skeletal muscle contains a Pi transporter which transports Pi into the lumen of the SR, increasing the level of accumulation of Ca2+ by SR by forming insoluble salts with Ca2+. Phosphonocarboxylic acids inhibit the transport of Pi by the transporter, phosphonoformic acid itself being transported into the SR increasing the level of accumulation of Ca2+. Phenylphosphonic acid also inhibits Pi transport, distinguishing the Pi transporter of SR from the Na+/Pi transporter of brush-border membranes. Oxalate transport is also inhibited by the phosphono-carboxylic acids, consistent with the suggestion that oxalate and phosphate are carried on the same transporter. The effects of maleate are, however, not inhibited, suggesting a separate carrier for the dicarboxylic acids. Acetic anhydride and phenylglyoxal inhibit the transporter, Pi providing protection against the effects of acetic anhydride, suggesting the presence of a lysine residue at the Pi binding site. ATP provides protection against the effects of acetic anhydride and phenylglyoxal, suggesting the presence of an ATP binding site on the transporter.
Intracellular pH regulates the production of different oxygen metabolites in neutrophils: effects of organic acids produced by anaerobic bacteria.	The effects of short chain carboxylic acids (SCCA), namely succinic, butyric, and iso-butyric, on neutrophil metabolic activation were assessed. SCCA induced a significant decrease in O2.- recovery and chemiluminescent response in neutrophils activated with the diacylglycerol analog tetradecanoyl-phorbol-acetate (TPA). SCCA did not alter O2 consumption, H2O2 production, or the calorimetrically determined energy expenditure occurring during the metabolic burst. SCCA also induced a significant acidification of intracellular pH (pHi). These results are consistent with an increased divalent versus univalent O2 reduction performed by the NADPH oxidase at a more acidic intracellular pH.
Catabolism of 3- and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid by Klebsiella pneumoniae.	Klebsiella pneumoniae catabolizes both 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid via meta-cleavage of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, ultimately yielding pyruvate and succinate. The organism can synthesize two hydroxylases catalysing 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid formation, which differ in substrate specificity, cofactor requirement, kinetics and regulation. Five enzymes sequentially involved in the catabolism of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid are encoded on a 7 kbp fragment of the K. pneumoniae chromosome that has been isolated in a recombinant plasmid.
Congenital deficiency of a 20-kDa subunit of mitochondrial complex I in fibroblasts.	The first component of the mitochondrial electron-transport chain is especially complex, consisting of 19 nuclear and seven mitochondrion-encoded subunits. Accordingly, a wide range of clinical manifestations are produced by the various mutations occurring in human populations. In this study, we analyze the subunit structure of complex I in fibroblasts from two patients who have distinct clinical phenotypes associated with complex I deficiency. The first patient died in the second week of life from overwhelming lactic acidosis. Severe complex I deficiency was evident in her fibroblasts, since alanine oxidation was markedly reduced whereas succinate oxidation was normal. Absence of a 20-kDa subunit was demonstrable when newly synthesized proteins were immunoprecipitated from pulse-labeled fibroblasts by anti-complex I antibody. Disordered assembly or decreased stability of the complex was suggested by deficiency of multiple subunits on Western immunoblots. The second patient exhibited a milder clinical phenotype, characterized by moderate lactic acidosis and developmental delay in childhood and by onset of seizures at 8 years of age. Oxidation studies demonstrated expression of the complex I deficiency in fibroblasts, but no subunit abnormalities were detected by immunoprecipitation or Western immunoblotting. This report demonstrates the utility of cultured fibroblasts in studying mutations affecting synthesis and assembly of complex I.
L-malic acid production using immobilized Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	L-Malate was produced from fumarate by using immobilized Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells entrapped in polyacrylamide. This preparation performed better when pretreated with malonate. Under the experimental conditions described here, succinate was not detected as a by-product of the reaction, as had been reported for other microorganisms.
The microtiter SDI test is more advantageous than the SDI test for assessing the chemosensitivity of human tumor cells.	The in vitro succinate dehydrogenase inhibition (SDI) test was adapted to be used with microtiter plates and this microtiter SDI (mSDI) test was evaluated for clinical use of chemosensitivity testing, as compared to findings with the SDI test. The optimal conditions of the mSDI test were determined: (1) 2-5 x 10(4) cells/well; (2) enzymatic disaggregation of solid tumors with the use of a mixture of 0.2% pronase, 0.25% collagenase, 0.1% DNase for 20 min at 37 degrees C; (3) addition of 10 mM sodium succinate in the colorimetric reaction; and (4) use of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a solvent for extraction of formazan product. Good correlations were observed between the mSDI and the SDI tests when S-180 cells (r = 0.890-0.996) or 16 human fresh tumor cells (r = 0.731-0.999) were exposed to six anti-cancer drugs (carboquone, adriamycin, mitomycin C, aclacinomycin A, cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil). Thus, the mSDI test facilitates testing of a large number of drugs with minimal amounts of specimens, and is expected to replace the SDI test for chemosensitivity testing of clinical tumor cells.
Inhibition of electron transport of rat liver mitochondria by unnatural (-)-antimycin A3.	The inhibition of electron transport by unnatural (-)-antimycin A3 was examined with rat liver mitochondria and compared with that of natural (+)-antimycin A3. (-)-Antimycin A3 inhibited respiration about 1/100th as strongly as natural (+)-antimycin A3. (-)-Antimycin A3 binding to the cytochrome bc1 complex did not seem to induce a conformational change in this proteinous complex. The binding site of (-)-antimycin A3 was probably the same as that of (+)-antimycin A3 (at the Qi center). However, the mode of interaction with the Qi center by (-)-antimycin A3 and (+)-antimycin A3 was somewhat different.
Effect of alpha-ketoglutarate and its structural analogues on hysteretic properties of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase.	The burst of product accumulation during the KGD reaction was investigated. It has been shown not to be the obligatory feature of catalysis, but appears when increasing the enzyme saturation by KG. Structural analogues of KG and the SH-group modification suppress the initial burst without preventing catalysis. The results obtained are in favour of the existence of the regulatory site for binding KG and its structural analogues essential for hysteretic properties of KGD.
Metabolic conversion of dicarboxylic acids to succinate in rat liver homogenates. A stable isotope tracer study.	The metabolic conversion of dicarboxylic acids into succinate and other gluconeogenic intermediates in rat liver homogenates was investigated using [1,2,4-13C4]dodecanedioic acid as tracer. Isotope enrichments in 3-hydroxybutyrate, succinate, fumarate, and malate, as well as dicarboxylates (dodecanedioic, sebacic, suberic, and adipic acids) were measured with selected ion monitoring capillary column gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry. Significant enrichment in the M + 4 (four labeled carbons) ion of succinate (0.4-2.9%) was detected, unequivocally demonstrating the direct conversion of dicarboxylate into succinate. In addition, significant enrichment of the M + 2 ion of succinate was also observed. This labeled species was generated from labeled acetyl-CoA through the tricarboxylic acid cycle. The partition of acetyl-CoA into the tricarboxylic acid cycle relative to ketone body formation was higher in the beta oxidation of dicarboxylate than monocarboxylate. Therefore, in addition to the production of succinate, the beta oxidation of dodecanedioate resulted in the channeling of the acetyl-CoA produced to the tricarboxylic acid cycle instead of to acetoacetate production. The enrichments in lower chain dicarboxylates are consistent with a partial bidirectional beta oxidation of dodecanedioic acid. In addition to the expected M + 0 and M + 4 labels, significant M + 2 species were detected in suberic and adipic acids. These M + 2-labeled species were produced from the released free dicarboxylate intermediates which were then reactivated and metabolized. In these experiments, the overall succinate production was derived 4% from the direct conversion of dodecanedioic acid and 11% from the indirect route via acetyl-CoA through tricarboxylic acid.
Na(+)-dependent succinate uptake in Corynebacterium glutamicum.	Succinate is effectively taken up by washed cells of Corynebacterium glutamicum. The apparent Km value of uptake is about 150 microM and the Vmax 4-7 nmol (mg dry weight)-1 min-1 and uptake can be competetively inhibited by fumarate and oxaloacetate. The activation energy was determined to be 50 kJ/mol. The transport activity is clearly dependent on the presence of Na+ ions in the incubation medium and on the membrane potential and has a pH optimum around 8.5. It is concluded that succinate is taken up in C. glutamicum via a specific carrier by a secondary active, Na+ coupled mechanism.
Succinate transport by a ruminal selenomonad and its regulation by carbohydrate availability and osmotic strength.	Washed cells of strain H18, a newly isolated ruminal selenomonad, decarboxylated succinate 25-fold faster than Selenomonas ruminantium HD4 (130 versus 5 nmol min-1 mg of protein-1, respectively). Batch cultures of strain H18 which were fermenting glucose did not utilize succinate, and glucose-limited continuous cultures were only able to decarboxylate significant amounts of succinate at slow (less than 0.1 h-1) dilution rates. Strain H18 grew more slowly on lactate than glucose (0.2 versus 0.4 h-1, respectively), and more than half of the lactate was initially converted to succinate. Succinate was only utilized after growth on lactate had ceased. Although nonenergized and glucose-energized cells had similar proton motive forces and ATP levels, glucose-energized cells were unable to transport succinate. Transport by nonenergized cells was decreased by small increases in osmotic strength, and it is possible that energy-dependent inhibition of succinate transport was related to changes in cell turgor. Since cells which were deenergized with 2-deoxyglucose or iodoacetate did not transport succinate, it appeared that glycogen metabolism was providing the driving force for succinate uptake. An artificial delta pH drove succinate transport in deenergized cells, but an artificial membrane potential (delta psi) could not serve as a driving force. Because succinate is nearly fully dissociated at pH 7.0 and the transport process was electroneutral, it appeared that succinate was taken up in symport with two protons. An Eadie-Hofstee plot indicated that the rate of uptake was unusually rapid at high substrate concentrations, but the low-velocity, high-affinity component could account for succinate utilization by stationary cultures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extracellular phosphate requirement for insulin action on isolated rat hepatocytes.	Isolated rat hepatocytes were prepared in KHB buffer, pH 7.4; were centrifuged and washed twice in KHB buffer containing various amounts of phosphate and calcium; and were incubated at 30 degrees in the presence of tracer [2,3-14C]succinate and a 0.5 mM concentration of each of the 20 natural amino acids. Hepatocytes washed and incubated in KHB buffer containing less than 0.1 mM phosphate failed to show any insulin stimulation of [2,3-14C]succinate oxidation or protein incorporation of tracer carbons. The absence or presence of extracellular phosphate did not alter the specific activity of 32P-adenine nucleotides; they remained the same in the presence or absence of insulin. The maximal insulin stimulatory effect on succinate oxidation and tracer incorporation into protein was observed in the presence of 1.18 mM phosphate and 1.9 mM calcium ion. The lack of external phosphate did not prevent the stimulation of succinate oxidation by either glucagon on epinephrine, whereas removal of calcium from the medium abolished their hormonal effects. The lack of medium calcium also prevented the insulin stimulation of succinate oxidation and protein synthesis. Our data indicate that a diminished insulin responsiveness in hypophosphatemic patients may be due to the insensitivity of mitochondria to insulin in the hypophosphatemic state.
In vitro effects of glucocorticoid on mitochondrial energy metabolism.	A systematic study of the effects of the synthetic glucocorticoid, methylprednisolone (MP), on respiration and energy coupling in tightly-coupled mitochondria isolated from rat tissues has been initiated. In intact rat skeletal muscle, liver and heart mitochondria, incubation, in vitro, with greater than or equal to 0.1 mM MP caused inhibition of the state 3 respiratory rates with succinate and NAD-linked substrates. In skeletal muscle and heart mitochondria, the oxidation of succinate was significantly more sensitive to MP than was that of the NAD-linked substrates. No effects were seen at low concentrations (less than 0.02 mM) of MP. In all three tissues, these data together with analysis of the partial reactions of the electron transport chain and steady-state kinetic analysis of cytochrome reduction indicated that in isolated mitochondria high concentrations of MP: (a) inhibit the oxidation of NAD-linked substrates at the level of the respiratory chain between the primary NADH dehydrogenase flavoprotein and coenzyme Q, most likely at the iron-sulfur centers or coenzyme Q-binding proteins of complex I; and (b) inhibit succinate oxidation in intact (but not disrupted) mitochondria, not by inhibiting electron transfer along the respiratory chain, but possibly at the level of succinate transport into the mitochondria. The results of these studies suggest that the therapeutic effects of MP in mitochondrial disease result from indirect effects rather than direct effects on the mitochondrial membrane. More importantly, the absence of an effect at low MP concentrations provides the baseline information needed for further studies to be carried out in vivo.
The effect of thyroid state and cold exposure on rat liver oxidative phosphorylation.	In this paper we have examined the effect of cold exposure on hepatic mitochondrial state 3 respiration and ATP synthesis, using succinate as the substrate, in euthyroid, hypothyroid and hyperthyroid rats. The results show that cold exposure does not elicit any variation in the above parameters in euthyroid and hyperthyroid rats, whereas when hypothyroid rats are exposed to cold, a significant increase (about +45%) occurs in state 3 respiration and ATP synthesis. We have also measured succinic dehydrogenase specific activity and uncoupled respiration during cold exposure in various thyroid states. The finding that cold exposure elicits no variation in the above parameters indicates that there is some control on ATP synthase and/or adenine nucleotide translocator. The above findings, as a whole, suggest that cold exposure acts on oxidative phosphorylation only if triiodothyronine is lacking, by controlling ATP synthase and/or adenine nucleotide translocator.
Expression of a cell surface antigen from Rhizobium leguminosarum 3841 is regulated by oxygen and pH.	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 was grown in liquid suspension culture to investigate how culture conditions could affect the expression of a developmentally regulated cell surface antigen associated with lipopolysaccharide. The antigen, which is recognized by monoclonal antibody AFRC MAC 203, was expressed when cultures were grown at neutral pH under low-oxygen conditions (less than 7.5% [vol/vol] O2 in the gas phase). Antigen was also expressed in aerobically grown cultures at pH values below 5.3. The nature of the nitrogen and the carbon sources had no effect on antigen expression except by indirect changes on the pH of the culture medium; similarly, growth in 0.3 M NaCl did not result in antigen expression. The induction of MAC 203 antigen by low-oxygen or low-pH culture conditions is discussed in the context of tissue-specific expression within the legume root nodule.
The characterization of perfluorosuccinate as an inhibitor of gluconeogenesis in isolated rat hepatocytes.	The effects on metabolism of the fluorinated dicarboxylic acid, perfluorosuccinate, were examined in hepatocytes from fasted rats. Perfluorosuccinate (5 mM) inhibited gluconeogenesis from lactate by 80% and from pyruvate by 40%. Significant inhibition (up to 30%) occurred at a concentration of perfluorosuccinate of 50 microM. Cellular ATP levels were not affected by perfluorosuccinate, nor was the rate of formation of ketone bodies from palmitate, although the ratio [3-hydroxybutyrate]/[acetoacetate] was increased up to 5-fold relative to the control. An increased concentration of cellular L-malate was measured in the presence of perfluorosuccinate but this did not reflect inhibition of malate transport between the mitochondrial and cytoplasmic compartments. In addition, ethanol oxidation by hepatocytes was inhibited 25% by 1 mM perfluorosuccinate. Ureogenesis from ammonia was relatively insensitive to inhibition by perfluorosuccinate. In cytoplasmic extracts of rat liver, the activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and aspartate aminotransferase were inhibited 40-50% and 23%, respectively, by 1 mM perfluorosuccinate. The observed metabolic effects of perfluorosuccinate are consistent with inhibition of the activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and aspartate aminotransferase within the cytoplasm.
Superoxide generation by the respiratory chain of tumor mitochondria.	O2-. generation by the succinate oxidase segment of the respiratory chain of mitochondria and submitochondrial particles from hepatoma 22a and hepatoma Zajdela has been studied with the use of the Tiron method. In the presence of succinate, superoxide generation is induced by antimycin, 2-n-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide or funiculosin, and is inhibited by mucidin, myxothiazol or cyanide. The rate of O2-. generation in the antimycin-inhibited state is maximal at the [succinate]/[fumarate] ratio of 1:10 and diminishes at more positive and more negative redox potentials. These characteristics of O2-.-generation are the same as observed earlier in submitochondrial particles from normal tissues. Accordingly, the mechanism of superoxide production is suggested to be the same in tumor and normal mitochondria, namely, autoxidation of the unstable ubisemiquinone in the ubiquinol-oxidizing centre o of cytochrome bc1 complex. With respect to the rate of O2-. generation, the hepatoma mitochondrial membranes are approximately twice as active as bovine heart submitochondrial particles and exceed those from rat liver by more than one order of magnitude.
Rhizobium meliloti mutants that fail to succinylate their calcofluor-binding exopolysaccharide are defective in nodule invasion.	We have identified a set of Tn5-generated mutants of Rhizobium meliloti on the basis of their failure to form a fluorescent halo under UV light when grown on agar medium containing Calcofluor. These mutations define a new genetic locus we have termed exoH. Alfalfa seedlings inoculated with exoH mutants form ineffective nodules that do not contain intracellular bacteria or bacteroids. Root hair curling is significantly delayed and infection threads abort in the nodule cortex. Analyses of exopolysaccharide secreted by exoH mutants have shown that it is identical to the Calcofluor-binding exopolysaccharide secreted by the exoH+ parental strain except for the fact that it completely lacks the succinyl modification. In vitro translation of total RNA isolated from nodules induced by an exoH mutant has shown that only one of the plant-encoded nodulins is induced, as compared with the 17 nodulins induced by wild-type strains. These observations suggest that succinylation of the bacterial polysaccharide is important for its role(s) in nodule invasion and possibly nodule development.
The interaction of quinone analogues with wild-type and ubiquinone-deficient yeast mitochondria.	The interaction of the exogenous quinones, duroquinone (DQ) and the decyl analogue of ubiquinone (DB) with the mitochondrial respiratory chain was studied in both wild-type and a ubiquinone-deficient mutant of yeast. DQ can be reduced directly by NADH dehydrogenase, but cannot be reduced by succinate dehydrogenase in the absence of endogenous ubiquinone. The succinate-driven reduction of DQ can be stimulated by DB in a reaction inhibited 50% by antimycin and 70-80% by the combined use of antimycin and myxothiazol, suggesting that electron transfer occurs via the cytochrome b-c1 complex. Both DQ and DB can effectively mediate the reduction of cytochrome b by the primary dehydrogenases through center o, but their ability to mediate the reduction of cytochrome b through center i is negligible. Two reaction sites for ubiquinol seem to be present at center o: one is independent of endogenous Q6 with a high reaction rate and a high Km; the other is affected by endogenous Q6 and has a low reaction rate and a low Km. By contrast, only one ubiquinol reaction site was observed at center i, where DB appears to compete with endogenous Q6. DB can oxidize most of the pre-reduced cytochrome b, while DQ can oxidize only 50%. On the basis of these data, the possible binding patterns of DB on different Q-reaction sites and the requirement for ubiquinone in the continuous oxidation of DQH are discussed.
Hyperglycemia preserves brain mitochondrial respiration during anoxia.	We examined brain mitochondrial function in normo- (5 mM) and hyperglycemic (50 mM) cats after 8 min of anoxia. In anoxic normoglycemic cats, mitochondrial state 3 respiration with NAD-linked substrates glutamate or pyruvate (both plus malate) was inhibited 30-50%. The uncoupler carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP) maximally stimulated respiration, indicating that inhibition of phosphorylation, not impairment of electron transport, substrate transport, or oxidation was present. State 3 respiration with succinate (plus rotenone) was unaffected. Mitochondrial respiratory control ratios trended toward reductions whereas ADP/O ratios remained unchanged. In contrast, brain mitochondria from anoxic hyperglycemic cats showed no such inhibition of state 3 respiration and no differences in function from normo- and hyperglycemic control animals except for trends toward loose coupling. Significantly higher brain tissue glucose concentrations were present in hyperglycemic controls as the only metabolite difference compared to normoglycemic controls. At the end of anoxia, hyperglycemic cats exhibited significantly higher cortical lactate and glucose levels but similarly reduced high-energy phosphate concentrations compared to normoglycemic cats. These results demonstrate that increased availability of glucose to gray matter as a consequence of hyperglycemia maintains normal mitochondrial state 3 respiration during exposure to anoxia. Previous survival studies have shown that lower serum glucose concentrations during anoxia are relatively brain protective. This result indicates that the presently described alterations in mitochondrial respiration must be fully reversible.
Thermal inactivation of electron-transport functions and F0F1-ATPase activities.	Bovine heart submitochondrial particles in suspension were heated at a designated temperature for 3 min, then cooled for biochemical assays at 30 degrees C. By enzyme activity measurements and polarographic assay of oxygen consumption, it is shown that the thermal denaturation of the respiratory chain takes place in at least four stages and each stage is irreversible. The first stage occurs at 51.0 +/- 1.0 degrees C, with the inactivation of NADH-linked respiration, ATP-driven reverse electron transport, F0F1 catalyzed ATP/Pi exchange, NADH and succinate-driven ATP synthesis. The second stage occurs at 56.0 +/- 1.0 degrees C, with the inactivation of succinate-linked proton pumping and respiration. The third stage occurs at 59.0 +/- 1.0 degrees C, with the inactivation of electron transfer from cytochrome c to cytochrome oxidase and ATP-dependent proton pumping. The ATP hydrolysis activity of F0F1 persists to 61.0 +/- 1.0 degrees C. An additional transition, detectable by differential scanning calorimetry, occurring around 70.0 +/- 2.0 degrees C, is probably associated with thermal denaturation of cytochrome c and other stable membrane proteins. In the presence of either mitochondrial matrix fluid or 2 mM mercaptoethanol, all five stages give rise to endothermic effects, with the absorption of approx. 25 J/g protein. Under aerobic conditions, however, the first four transitions become strongly exothermic, and release a total of approx. 105 J/g protein. Solubilized and reconstituted F0F1 vesicles also exhibit different inactivation temperatures for the ATP/Pi exchange, proton pumping and ATP hydrolysis activities. The first two activities are abolished at 49.0 +/- 1.0 degrees C, but the latter at 58.0 +/- 2.0 degrees C. Differential scanning calorimetry also detects biphasic transitions of F0F1, with similar temperatures of denaturation (49.0 and 54.0 degrees C). From these and other results presented in this communication, the following is concluded. (1) A selective inactivation, by the temperature treatment, of various functions of the electron-transport chain and of the F0F1 complex can be done. (2) The ATP synthesis activity of the F0F1 complex involves either a catalytic or a regulation subunit(s) which is not essential for ATP hydrolysis and the proton translocation. This subunit is 10 degrees C less stable than the hydrolytic site. Micromolar ADP stabilizes it from thermal denaturation by 4-5 degrees C, although ADP up to millimolar concentration does not protect the hydrolytic site and the proton-translocation site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rapid redox equilibrium between the mitochondrial Q pool and cytochrome b during triphasic reduction of cytochrome b by succinate.	The reliability of monitoring the redox reactions of cytochrome b using the different wavelengths employed by different authors has been reexamined. It was found that 562-575 nm is suitable in succinate: cytochrome c reductase but not in mitochondria, in which case 562-540 nm is a better pair. Direct optical measurements of the redox reaction kinetics of the mitochondrial Q pool using a commercial dual-wavelength spectrophotometer are possible when succinate is used as the electron donor. Using the correct wavelength pair, and with malonate to slow down the electron input, the reduction course of cytochrome b was still triphasic but a plateau or a turn replaced the oxidation phase previously reported by several authors. At the same time, the reduction course of the Q pool was also triphasic, and in perfect match with that of cytochrome b. Destruction of the Rieske iron-sulfur cluster by British anti-Lewisite (BAL) + O2 treatment or prereduction of the high-potential components made the reduction of both Q and b monophasic. The plot of log (Q/QH2) against log (b3+/b2+) gave a straight line with an n value of 1.7 for cytochrome b at pH 7.4. This n value rose to 2.0 at pH 6.5 and dropped to 1.4 at pH 8.5. On the other hand, the mid-point potential of cytochrome b relative to that of the Q pool remained essentially unchanged between pH 6.5 and 8.4. BAL treatment had a small effect on the midpoint potential of cytochrome b relative to that of the Q pool and had no effect on the n value. Addition of quinone homologues and analogues extended the plateau phase in the reduction of cytochrome b, but exogenous quinones did not equilibrate rapidly with cytochrome b. It was concluded that the appearance of the plateau between the two reduction phases of Q and b is caused by the rapid delivery of electrons to the high-potential components of the respiratory chain as envisaged in the Q cycle; the unexpected n value for cytochrome b suggests a concerted reduction by QH2 of two species of cytochromes b-562.
The effect of ring substituents on the mechanism of interaction of exogenous quinones with the mitochondrial respiratory chain.	In uncoupled pig-heart mitochondria the rate of the reduction of duroquinone by succinate in the presence of cyanide is inhibited by about 50% by antimycin. This inhibition approaches completion when myxothiazol is also added or British anti-Lewisite-treated (BAL-treated) mitochondria are used. If mitochondria are replaced by isolated succinate:cytochrome c oxidoreductase, the inhibition by antimycin alone is complete. The reduction of a plastoquinone homologue with an isoprenoid side chain (plastoquinone-2) is strongly inhibited by antimycin with either mitochondria or succinate:cytochrome c reductase. The reduction by succinate of plastoquinone analogues with an n-alkyl side chain in the presence of mitochondria is inhibited neither by antimycin nor by myxothiazol, but is sensitive to the combined use of these two inhibitors. On the other hand, the reduction of the ubiquinone homologues Q2, Q4, Q6 and Q10 and an analogue, 2,3-dimethoxyl-5-n-decyl-6-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone, is not sensitive to any inhibitor of QH2:cytochrome c reductase tested or their combined use, either in normal or BAL-treated mitochondria or in isolated succinate:cytochrome c reductase. It is concluded that quinones with a ubiquinone ring can be reduced directly by succinate:Q reductase, whereas those with a plastoquinone ring can not. Reduction of the latter compounds requires participation of either center i or center o (Mitchell, P. (1975) FEBS Lett. 56, 1-6) or both, of QH2:cytochrome c oxidoreductase. It is proposed that a saturated side chain promotes, while an isoprenoid side chain prevents reduction of these compounds at center o.
Structural and chemical requirements for hydroxychlorobiphenyls to uncouple rat liver mitochondria and potentiation of uncoupling with aroclor 1254.	Rat hepatic mitochondrial permeability and succinate + valinomycin-dependent swelling were studied in the presence of hydroxy derivatives of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBOHs), Aroclor 1254 (ARO) and combinations of both. PCBOHs with two or more chlorines and pKas greater than 8.0 (PCBOH I) induced passive swelling in a potassium acetate-sucrose medium (pH 7.2), maximally stimulated succinate respiration, and suppressed ADP-stimulated H+ uptake. Mono- and certain dichlorinated biphenylols with similar high pKas (PCBOH II) were ineffective. Para-hydroxy PCBs with chlorines substituted in the 3,5 positions and with pKas near 6.8 (PCBOH III) inhibited succinate + valinomycin swelling and ADP-stimulated H+ and oxygen uptake. The efficacy of both PCBOH I and III derivatives required the presence of a hydroxyl moiety and increased directly with the degree of chlorination. Coplanarity was not a determining factor for PCBOH I compounds. ARO activated succinate + valinomycin swelling at low concentrations (3-25 nmol/mg protein) but inhibited at higher concentrations (greater than 40 nmol/mg). Activating concentrations of ARO potentiated the influence of PCBOHs on mitochondria. The uncoupling effects of the PCBOHs and ARO involved permeability changes of the inner membrane, respiratory inhibition, or combinations of both.
Effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), cyperquat (MPP+) and paraquat on isolated mitochondria from rat striatum, cortex and liver.	The effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), its metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion (MPP+, cyperquat) and a structurally-related compound paraquat on mitochondrial functions were investigated in isolated organelles from rat striatum, cortex and liver. MPTP (0.1-1.0 mM) had no significant effect on various parameters of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. In contrast, MPP+ (0.5 mM) inhibited the oxidation of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-linked substrates pyruvate and malate but not that of the flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD+)-linked substrate succinate. Paraquat (5.0 mM) significantly stimulated basal oxygen consumption (state 4) without influencing the oxygen utilization (state 3) associated with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) phosphorylation. Thus, these structurally-related compounds have different effects on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, but the organelles from striatum, cortex and liver were affected in a similar manner by these compounds.
Early methylprednisolone treatment for septic syndrome and the adult respiratory distress syndrome.	From November 1, 1982 through December 31, 1985, there were 19 centers and 382 patients that evaluated the effect of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS) on the septic syndrome. Seventeen of these centers enrolled 304 patients in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to determine if early treatment with MPSS would decrease the incidence of severity of the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in patients at risk of ARDS from sepsis. To ensure early institution of the MPSS or placebo therapy (PLA), patients with the presumptive diagnosis of sepsis were identified. That diagnosis was based on the presence of fever or hypothermia (temperature greater than 38.3 degrees C or less than 35.5 degrees C, rectal), tachypnea (greater than 20 bpm), tachycardia (greater than 90 bpm) and the presence of one of the following indices of organ dysfunction: a change in mental status, hypoxemia, elevated lactate levels or oliguria. The treatment, either MPSS 30 mg/kg or PLA, was given in four 20-minute infusions six hours apart and was initiated within two hours of the presumptive diagnosis of sepsis. The development and reversal of the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was followed and resulted in data on 304 of the 382 randomized patients. A trend toward increased incidence of ARDS was seen in the MPSS group 50/152 (32 percent) compared to the placebo group 38/152(25 percent) p = 0.10. Significantly fewer MPSS patients reversed their ARDS 15/50 (31 percent) compared to placebo 23/38 (61 percent) p = 0.005. The 14-day mortality in patients with ARDS treated with MPSS was 26/50 (52 percent) compared to placebo 8/22 (22 percent) p = 0.004. We conclude that early treatment of septic syndrome with MPSS does not prevent the development of ARDS. Additionally, MPSS treatment impedes the reversal of ARDS and increases the mortality rate in patients with ARDS.
Succinic acidemia: a new syndrome of organic acidemia associated with congenital lactic acidosis and decreased NADH-cytochrome c reductase activity.	Two siblings with succinic acidemia, a hitherto unreported organic acidemia, were investigated. Succinic acidemia, lactic acidosis and respiratory distress were observed in one of the siblings, who died 37 days after birth, and succinic acidemia was also detected in the next sibling at the fetal stage. NADH-cytochrome c reductase activity was significantly low in both cases and NADH-ferricyanide reductase activity was also low in the fetal case, suggesting a complex I deficiency of the electron transport system in the mitochondrial membrane.
The mitochondrial respiratory toxicity of cephalosporin antibiotics. An inhibitory effect on substrate uptake.	Cephalosporin antibiotics can produce renal cortical mitochondrial respiratory toxicity after either in vitro or in vivo exposure. In vitro toxicity is immediate, nonselective among toxic and nontoxic cephalosporins and reversed by substrate excess. In vivo toxicity is delayed, specific to the nephrotoxic cephalosporins and not reversible. Both routes of exposure affect respiration with succinate (S) more than with glutamate plus malate as substrates. Because glutamate and malate gain access to the intramitochondrial electron transport chain proximal to S, this pattern suggests that the cephalosporins affect a mitochondrial function outside the respiratory chain. A model of respiratory toxicity incorporating all of these features proposes that all cephalosporins can fit the affected transporters for mitochondrial substrate uptake, but, in the intact kidney, this causes limited or transient respiratory inhibition with nontoxic cephalosporins; in vivo toxicity, which is seen after later isolation and washing of mitochondria exposed in situ, develops with the more sequestered and reactive (nephrotoxic) cephalosporins that acylate these transporters. As a test of this hypothesis, studies were done, using the method of sieve filtration, to evaluate the effects of in vivo and in vitro exposure to cephaloglycin (toxic) and cephalexin (nontoxic) on the uptake of S and ADP by rabbit renal cortical mitochondria. In vivo and in vitro exposure to cephaloglycin reduced the net uptake of S by 70% and had a considerably smaller and less consistent effect on ADP uptake; cephalexin inhibited S uptake only with in vitro exposure. The rate of S washout from cephaloglycin-intoxicated mitochondria was no greater than from controls, ruling out increased efflux as a cause of decreased net uptake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Citric, malic and succinic acids as possible alternatives to deferoxamine in aluminum toxicity.	The effect of repeated intraperitoneal administration of deferoxamine, citric, malic and succinic acids on the distribution and excretion of aluminum was determined in male Swiss mice which had previously received aluminum nitrate intraperitoneally at a daily dose of 0.27 mmol/kg for five weeks. Chelating agents were administered for two weeks at doses approximately equal to one-fourth of their respective LD50. Treatment with DFOA, citric, malic or succinic acids significantly increased the fecal and urinary excretion of aluminum and reduced the concentration of aluminum found in various organs and tissues, with citric acid being the most effective. In sight of these results, citric, malic or succinic acids may be considered as alternatives to deferoxamine in aluminum toxicity. However, further investigations are required previous to the possible use of these compounds in human aluminum poisoning.
Comparative effects of several chelating agents on the toxicity, distribution and excretion of aluminium.	The relative efficacy of citric, malic, malonic, oxalic and succinic acids, and deferoxamine mesylate (DFOA) on the toxicity, distribution and excretion in mice exposed to aluminum were compared. Chelating agents were administered intraperitoneally at a dose equal to one-fourth of their respective LD50. To determine the effect of the various chelators on the toxicity of aluminum, various doses of aluminum nitrate (938-3188 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally, followed by one of the chelators. Survival was recorded at the end of 14 days. Malic and succinic acids were the most effective. Malic acid and DFOA were the most effective in increasing the urinary excretion of aluminum. Citric acid was the most effective in increasing the faecal excretion of aluminum. Malonic, oxalic and succinic acids had no overall beneficial effects. Citric acid would appear to be the most effective agent of those tested in the prevention of acute aluminium intoxication. However, before the use of these compounds in human aluminium intoxication is possible, further investigations including the effects of these chelators after chronic aluminium intoxication are required.
Expression and regulation of the penicillin G acylase gene from Proteus rettgeri cloned in Escherichia coli.	The penicillin G acylase genes from the Proteus rettgeri wild type and from a hyperproducing mutant which is resistant to succinate repression were cloned in Escherichia coli K-12. Expression of both wild-type and mutant P. rettgeri acylase genes in E. coli K-12 was independent of orientation in the cloning vehicle and apparently resulted from recognition in E. coli of the P. rettgeri promoter sequences. The P. rettgeri acylase was secreted into the E. coli periplasmic space and was composed of subunits electrophoretically identical to those made in P. rettgeri. Expression of these genes in E. coli K-12 was not repressed by succinate as it is in P. rettgeri. Instead, expression of the enzymes was regulated by glucose catabolite repression.
Isolation of succinate dehydrogenase from Desulfobulbus elongatus, a propionate oxidizing, sulfate reducing bacterium.	Succinate dehydrogenase was purified from the particulate fraction of Desulfobulbus. The enzyme catalyzed both fumarate reduction and succinate oxidation but the rate of fumarate reduction was 8-times less than that of succinate oxidation. Quantitative analysis showed the presence of 1 mol of covalently bound flavin and 1 mol of cytochrome b per mol of succinate dehydrogenase. The enzyme contained three subunits with molecular mass 68.5, 27.5 and 22 kDa. EPR spectroscopy indicated the presence of at least two iron sulfur clusters. 2-Heptyl-4-hydroxy-quinoline-N-oxide inhibited the electron-transfer between succinate dehydrogenase and a high redox potential cytochrome c3 from Desulfobulbus elongatus.
Respiratory characteristics of neonatal rat hepatocytes.	Mitochondrial function was studied in isolated hepatocytes from newborn rats to determine the substrate requirements and oxygen dependence of perinatal respiratory activity. The results show that neonatal O2 consumption is markedly dependent on succinate availability; the respiration rate was extremely low in the absence of exogenous substrates, but was stimulated 15-fold by succinate, with half-maximal stimulation of O2 consumption at 0.5 mM succinate. Significant inhibition of respiration by low concentrations of antimycin A suggests that the succinate-induced increase in cellular O2 consumption was primarily due to mitochondrial activity. In contrast, other potential metabolic fuels at comparable concentrations (2.5 to 10 mM) gave less than 2-fold stimulation. Half-maximal oxidation (P50 value) of the mitochondrial cytochromes occurred at very low O2 concentrations and was sensitive to factors that alter cellular O2 consumption. The P50 for cytochrome c oxidation (0.52 microM with 1.5 mM succinate) was, respectively, increased or decreased by additions of succinate or antimycin A. These distinctly lower P50 values for mitochondrial function in neonatal cells compared to adult cells could be a major factor in the ability of fetal and neonatal cells to tolerate relatively low O2 concentrations.
Effect of tuberculostatic agents and sodium succinate on the functional state of liver mitochondria in tuberculosis]	Effects of isoniazide and of new tuberculostatic drug of long-term action on functions of guinea pig liver mitochondria were studied in experimental tuberculosis. Significant changes in oxidative phosphorylation were found. The combination of sodium succinate with tuberculostatic drugs improved the bioenergetic functions of liver mitochondria under the conditions of antibacterial therapy of experimental tuberculosis.
Stimulation of the respiration rate of rat liver mitochondria by sub-micromolar concentrations of extramitochondrial Ca2+.	1. The respiration rate of rat liver mitochondria was stimulated by up to 70% when the extramitochondrial Ca2+ concentration was raised from 103 to 820 nM. This occurred when pyruvate, 2-oxoglutarate, or threo-(Ds)-isocitrate was employed as substrate, but not when succinate was used. 2. Ruthenium Red prevented the stimulation of mitochondrial respiration by extramitochondrial Ca2+, showing that the effect required Ca2+ uptake into the mitochondrial matrix. 3. Starvation of rats for 48 h abolished the stimulation of mitochondrial respiration by extramitochondrial Ca2+ when pyruvate was used as substrate, but did not affect the stimulation of 2-oxoglutarate oxidation by extramitochondrial Ca2+. 4. Our findings are in accord with proposals that oxidative metabolism in liver mitochondria may be stimulated by Ca2+ activation of intramitochondrial dehydrogenases.
Three functionally different cytochrome b redox centres in pigeon heart mitochondria.	Three functionally different cytochrome b redox centres, apparently of high metabolic activity, were detected in intact pigeon heart mitochondria; cytochrome b(1), b(m) and b(h), with maxima of absorption at 556.6 (State 5), 560.6, and 564.5 nm, respectively (alpha-bands, 77K). 2. Cytochrome (b(l) was reduced in the presence of either antimycin or HQNO (2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide). The absorption maximum was shifted by dithionite, cyanide, NNN'N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine + ascorbate, HQNO and antimycin. The spectra obtained on simultaneous or successive addition of HQNO and antimycin favoured the assumption of a common binding site for the two inhibitors. 3. Cytochrome b(m) was reduced in the presence of HQNO, but not in the presence of antimycin. No shifts of absorption maximum was observed. 4. Cytochrome b(h) was reduced in the presence of antimycin. HQNO was unable to cause reduction of this cytochrome by endogenous substrates. The absorption maximum was shifted to lower wavelength by organic solvents. It was inseparable from that of cytochrome b(m) in the presence of 0.4% ethanol. 5. The pattern of reduction in the presence of HQNO or antimycin demonstrates the functional difference of the three redox centres and appears incompatible wih a linear respiratory chain.
Organic acids and branched-chain amino acids in body fluids before and after multiple exchange transfusions in maple syrup urine disease.	We successfully treated a critically ill infant with the classical type of maple syrup urine disease by multiple exchange transfusions via a peripheral artery and vein and with positive calorie supplementation in the early stage of therapy. Clinical improvement was definite after the plasma leucine level fell below 1 mmol/l. There was a close linear correlation between plasma concentrations of branched-chain amino acids and their corresponding branched-chain alpha-keto acids and branched-chain alpha-hydroxy acids. alpha-Hydroxy acids were more easily excreted in the urine than alpha-keto acids and amino acids. Our studies on urinary organic acids supported the existence of minor metabolic pathways of branched-chain alpha-keto acids, although they were not thought to be important in eliminating accumulated alpha-keto acids. Urinary excretion of succinic acid and alpha-ketoglutaric acid, which are components of the citric acid cycle, increased transiently during the patient's convalescence. The cerebrospinal fluid/plasma ratios for branched-chain amino acids, alpha-keto acids, and alpha-hydroxy acids were very high before the transfusions and decreased after improvement. The cerebrospinal fluid/plasma ratios for 5-carbon acids, alpha-ketoisovaleric acid and alpha-hydroxyisovaleric acid were much higher than for other branched-chain acids not only in the patient but also in normal controls. Cerebrospinal fluid levels of alpha-ketoisocaproic acid and alpha-hydroxyisovaleric acid were as high as 1 mmol/l in our patient.
Organic acids or urine in multiple sclerosis.	The urinary excretion of organic acids was examined in 509 cases with multiple sclerosis and in 50 age- and sex-matched controls. The concentrations of the acids were related to creatinine. No differences were found for compounds such as glycolic acid, 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-ethylhydracrylic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, suberic acid and many other acids. However, the mean excretion of 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-butenoic acid was increased two-fold in the MS group. 2 MS cases had a very high excretion of 3-methylglutaconic acid, and another 6 cases had moderate elevations, which were fairly constant over a time period of several months. Moderate elevations were also noted in 2 healthy controls. 1 MS case had a very high excretion of 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid. 7 MS cases, and none in the control group, had elevated excretion of adipic acid. Differences were also noted for lactic acid, succinic acid, aconitic acid and 3-methyladipic acid. An oral dose of deuterium-labelled acetate was given to one of the patients with high excretion of 3-methylglutaconic acid. Deuterium was incorporated into this metabolite. 3-methylglutaconic acid, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-butenoic acid, 3-hydroxy-isovaleric acid and 3-methyladipic acid are all potential isoprenoid metabolites. A possible defect in the pathway of isoprenoid biosynthesis is discussed.
High phosphate requirement for oxidative phosphorylation and low affinity for phosphate transport in newborn rat liver mitochondria.	Rat liver mitochondria are not fully functional at birth. The relationship between this deficiency and the affinity for phosphate, in oxidative phosphorylation or in phosphate transport, have been studied. The phosphate concentration necessary to observe maximal rate of succinate oxidation in the presence of ADP was higher for newborn than for adult rat liver mitochondria. After preincubation of newborn rat liver mitochondria with ATP, the rate of succinate oxidation in the presence of ADP increased with phosphate concentration similarly for newborn and adult rat liver mitochondria. The maximal rate of phosphate-acetate exchange, which is an indirect measure of the rate of phosphate transport across the mitochondrial membrane, was not significantly different for adult and newborn rat liver mitochondria. On the contrary the apparent affinity for phosphate was about ten-fold lower for newborn than for adult mitochondria.
Relationship between cyclopropane synthetase and the formation of cyclopropane fatty acids by Proteus vulgaris grown under various respiratory conditions.	In medium saturated with oxygen, the cyclopropane synthetase (unsaturated-phospholipid methyltransferase; EC 2.1.1.16) of Proteus vulgaris was generally synthesized after the mid-exponential phase of growth. The enzyme could also be induced by rapidly limiting the oxygen supply, or by initiating respiration on nitrate or thiosulphate following an initial period of growth in a highly aerobic environment. In each of these 'step-down' situations the specific activity of cyclopropane synthetase rose to a maximum prior to the stationary phase of growth and subsequently decreased. The cyclopropane fatty acids, methylene hexadecanoic acid and methylene octadecanoic acid accumulated throughout exponential growth following the induction of the enzyme. During a 12 h period in the stationary phase there was little synthesis of either of the fatty acids, despite detectable cyclopropane synthetase activity in the cells, indicating that essentially all the fatty acid synthesis was complete prior to entering the stationary phase. When nitrate was used as a respiratory electron acceptors a twofold increase in octadecenoic acid was observed, giving rise to an increase in methylene octadecanoic acid. This increase in octadecanoic acid was not apparent in mutants unable to respire on nitrate.
Influence of the salt moiety on the effectiveness of corticosteroid therapy in cardiogenic shock.	Using closed chest coronary artery microsphere embolization, myocardial infarction and subsequent shock were produced in healthy adult mongrel dogs. Following infarction animals were distributed among the following groups: (1) control; (2) methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS); (3) methylprednisolone sodium phosphate (MPSP); (4) sodium phosphate (SP); and (5) sodium succinate (SS). Drug doses of equivalent anti-inflammatory activity were administered i.v. 15 min after infarction. Compared to control animals, only dogs treated with MPSS exhibited significant improvements in hemodynamic parameters and permanent survival. Survival in MPSS dogs was significantly (P = 0.02) better than that of either group treated with SP or SS and substantially (P = 0.02) better than that of either group treated with SP or SS and substantially (P = 0.065) better than the survival rate of dogs receiving MPSP. It appears that succinate is permissive, while phosphate is restrictive, with respect to efficacy of methylprednisolone in experimental cardiogenic shock. Possible explanations for these observations are discussed.
Response of adenine nucleotide metabolism in the aged rat liver to fasting and succinate injections]	The total adenine nucleotide content in the livers from 24-month-old rats was shown to be by 30% lower than that of 3--4-month-old rat livers. A 24-hr fasting resulted in a decrease of the hepatic ATP levels, ATP/ADP ratios, phosphorylation potentials, adenylate energy charges and action mass ratios of adenylate kinase, crude at the same extents in adult and aged rats as well as in the equal increase of ADP, AMp and Pi levels. Injections of 0.9% NaCl or ammonium succinate to the aged rats (daily for 6 days prior to the experiment) did not affect the hepatic energy metabolism. The effects of potassium succinate was essentially the same as that of the fasting. Any treatment of the aged rats did not increase the total content of adenine nucleotides in the livers. Possible mechanisms of disturbances in adenine nucleotide metabolism upon ageing are discussed.
Effect of acetate on Na+-independent organic acid transport in the proximal tubules of the rat kidney]	At 20 degrees when active transport of an organic acid - fluorescein in superficial proximal tubules of surviving rat kidney does not depend on the external Na, the capability of acetate (as well as succinate and D,L-leucine) of stimulating the fluorescein uptake in the tubules was studied. As it turned out, acetate and leucine stimulated the fluorescein uptake at 120 mM of Na in the bath medium but had no effect at 10 mM of Na. Succinate has a biphasic effect on the fluorescein transport (stimulation at low succinate concentration), which does not depend on Na concentration in the medium. The effect of acetate disappears with the presence of ouabain in the medium. The stimulation of fluorescein uptake by acetate is accompanied by somewhat increased degree of reduction of cellular pyridine nucleotides. Pyridine nucleotides are reduced more markedly in the presence of ouabain or in the absence of Na from the bath medium. The disappearance of acetate effect on the fluorescein transport is explained by the fact of transition of cell mitochondria in the inactive state 4, due to the decrease in the level of cellular ADP when Na, K-ATPase is inhibited by ouabain or by diminution of tissue Na+ concentration.
Kinetics of glutamine-efflux from liver mitochondria loaded with the 14C-Labeled substrate.	Glutamine transport across the inner membrane of rat liver mitochondria was studied by the method of loading the organelles with [14C]glutamine and by measuring efflux of the metabolite at 0 degree C. The release of [14C]glutamine from loaded mitochondria was prevented by mersalyl, whereas the efflux was started by the addition of glutathione. The rate of glutamine efflux from the mitochondria was measured by the inhibitor stop technique with mersalyl plus N-ethylmaleimide. It was found that up to 10 mM glutamine there is no significant activity of glutaminase, whereas at about 20 mM of the substrate the enzyme is activated. The rate of the efflux measured after the addition of the optimal amount of glutathione was 10 nmol glutamine/min per mg protein. This is 5-times faster than the rate of glutaminase activity at 0 degree C. The pH optimum of glutamine carrier is between 6.5 and 7.0. Low concentration of succinate inhibits the efflux due to formation of pH gradient in coupled mitochondria, whereas a higher concentration of succinate inhibits the carrier directly. 2-Oxoglutarate and glutamate strongly inhibit the rate of glutamine efflux, the inhibition by glutamate being very pronounced at its physiological concentration. D-Glutamine does not inhibit the rate of the efflux, indicating that the transport of L-glutamine is stereospecific.
The functioning of the mitochondrial system and respiration at the 5th larval instar in Pieris brassicae (Lepidoptera)]	The profiles of respiratory rate, total proteins, mitochondrial proteins and mitochondrial activity have been described during the fifth instar of Pieris brassicae reared either under long-day or short-day photoperiod. There was no fundamental difference per unit of live weight between the long-day and short-day larvae. The biochemical characteristics of the larval mitochondria have been described, and the mitochondria were shown to oxidize succinate better than alpha-glycerophosphate. Two periods during the fifth instar were related to mitochondrial activity. During the first one, this specific activity was high during 50 to 60 p. 100 of the instar; it then decreased. This alteration was superimposed on changes in the hormonal balance. It is shown that the respiratory rate was not only a passive response to the energy demand, and that specific mitochondrial activity must be considered as a parameter of the development program.
Methylprednisolone and membrane properties of primary cultures of mouse spinal cord.	The present study attempts to define the capacity of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MP) to protect neuronal membranes against a free radical challenge in primary cultures of fetal mouse spinal cord. Incubation of these cultures with MP significantly increased the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity, an effect that was blocked by the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomysin D and the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, suggesting an induction of protein synthesis by MP. In contrast, incubation with FeCl2 for 1 or 2 h significantly inhibited Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and elevated the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Pretreatment with MP prevented the rise in TBARS and partially prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity for the first hour of FeCl2 incubation, an effect that was lost during the second hour. A second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2 partially restored Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and reduced TBARS levels after the second hour of exposure to FeCl2. Co-incubation of MP with cycloheximide completely prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity seen after a 2-h incubation with FeCl2 and eliminated the need for a second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2. These findings suggest a capacity for rapid protein induction and antioxidant activity for MP in vitro.
Buffer composition mediates a switch between cooperative and independent binding of an initiator protein to DNA.	The regulation of many biological processes, including DNA replication, is frequently achieved by protein-protein interactions, as well as protein-DNA interactions. Multiple protein-binding sites are often involved. For example, the replication of plasmid R6K involves binding of the initiator protein pi to seven 22-bp direct repeats (DR) in the gamma origin of replication (gamma ori). A mutant protein pi S87N has been isolated, that in Tris.borate buffer (TB) binds cooperatively to seven DR, whereas wild-type (wt) pi binds independently [Filutowicz et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 22 (1994) 4211-4215]. Surprisingly, we found that wt pi can also bind cooperatively when Tris.acetate (TA), Tris.succinate or Tris.glutamate buffers are used instead of TB. The cooperative binding of the wt pi protein was also observed in the TB buffer at high concentrations of Na2EDTA. These results suggest that pi may be able to assume two functionally distinct conformations as a result of either mutation or buffer composition. Moreover, we found that the mode of pi binding is determined not by the composition of the buffer in which the reaction was assembled, but by the composition of the electrophoresis buffer. We discuss the general implications of these findings.
Glu-50 in the catalytic chain of Escherichia coli aspartate transcarbamoylase plays a crucial role in the stability of the R quaternary structure.	Glu-50 of aspartate transcarbamoylase from Escherichia coli forms a set of interdomain bridging interactions between the 2 domains of the catalytic chain; these interactions are critical for stabilization of the high-activity high-affinity form of the enzyme. The mutant enzyme with an alanine substituted for Glu-50 (Glu-50-->Ala) exhibits significantly reduced activity, little cooperativity, and altered regulatory behavior (Newton CJ, Kantrowitz ER, 1990, Biochemistry 29:1444-1451). A study of the structural consequences of replacing Glu-50 by alanine using solution X-ray scattering is reported here. Correspondingly, in the absence of substrates, the mutant enzyme is in the same, so-called T quaternary conformation as is the wild-type enzyme. In the presence of a saturating concentration of the bisubstrate analog N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA), the mutant enzyme is in the same, so-called R quaternary conformation as the wild-type enzyme. However, the Glu-50-->Ala enzyme differs from the wild-type enzyme, in that its scattering pattern is hardly altered by a combination of carbamoyl phosphate and succinate. Addition of ATP under these conditions does result in a slight shift toward the R structure. Steady-state kinetic studies indicate that, in contrast to the wild-type enzyme, the Glu-50-->Ala enzyme is activated by PALA at saturating concentrations of carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, and that PALA increases the affinity of the mutant enzyme for aspartate. These data suggest that the enzyme does not undergo the normal T to R transition upon binding of the physiological substrates and verifies the previous suggestion that the interdomain bridging interactions involving Glu-50 are critical for the creation of the high-activity, high-affinity R state of the enzyme.
Impaired oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate in fibroblasts from patients with Parkinson's disease.	Whether or not a reported deficiency in brain mitochondrial complex I activity in Parkinson's disease represents a defect encompassing other organs or tissues has been a source of some controversy. We have examined mitochondrial respiration in fibroblasts from patients with Parkinson's disease by measuring the oxidative decarboxylation of [2-14C]pyruvate and [1,4-14C]succinate. We report that oxidation of pyruvate but not succinate was significantly reduced in fibroblasts from Parkinson patients when compared to healthy controls. These observations support the view that a widespread deficit in mitochondrial respiration exists in Parkinson's disease. Fibroblast cultures, moreover, are a source of affected proliferating cells, which can be used for in vitro studies of the nature of the respiratory defect and for testing of pharmacological interventions to correct the deficiency.
Interactions between ubiquinones and vitamins in membranes and cells.	The interaction between ubiquinones and vitamin E was studied in the inner membranes of rat liver mitochondria, liposomes and human erythrocyte plasma membranes. Free radicals were produced by addition of exogenous oxidants, and their reaction with chromanols and ubiquinone was followed by ESR and HPLC. Membranes were made deficient in ubiquinone but sufficient in alpha-tocopherol and were reconstituted with added ubiquinone. With these membrane preparations it was shown that (i) in the inner mitochondrial membranes there is a requirements for ubiquinone in the enzymatic recycling of vitamin E; (ii) succinate-ubiquinone reductase incorporated in liposomes cannot protect vitamin E in the absence of ubiquinone and (iii) in human erythrocyte plasma membranes protection against the loss of vitamin E can be provided by NADH-cytochrome-b5-dependent enzymatic recycling. We conclude that ubiquinonols (ubisemiquinones) reduce vitamin E through electron transport.
Synthesis, in vitro kinetics, and in vivo studies on protein conjugates of AZT: evaluation as a transport system to increase brain delivery.	Our method to increase the delivery of polar drugs to the central nervous system is via drug-protein conjugates with proteins that interact with and cross brain capillary endothelial cells. As a model for drugs containing a reactive hydroxyl group, AZT was conjugated via a succinate linker to two such protein carriers, the highly cationic histone H1 and an anti-transferrin receptor antibody, OX-26. The protein carriers were selected on the basis of their ability to interact with brain capillary endothelial cells by absorptive or receptor-mediated events, respectively. An in vitro pH profile of the rate of AZT release indicated that the observed hydrolysis proceeds by a specific base-catalysis mechanism. At 37 degrees C, the release of AZT proceeded at a rate approximately 10-fold faster (Kobs approximately 8 x 10(-4) min-1) than expected for a simple ester (AZT succinate; Kobs approximately 1.25 x 10(-4) min-1). Using simple model systems, product analysis revealed that intramolecular cyclization of the succinate linker accounts for the observed rate enhancement. Drug delivery in vivo was assessed using immunohistochemical techniques and quantitative brain uptake measurements with singly and doubly labeled AZT-OX-26 conjugates. Immunohistochemical staining of brain sections showed the colocalization of AZT and OX-26 in the brain vasculature. Therefore, drug can be linked to the antibody without affecting the targeting property of the antibody. Furthermore, an in vivo time course using radiolabeled conjugate showed that AZT is delivered to the brain capillaries but is not transported into the brain parenchyma with the antibody.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of sodium succinate on functional, biochemical and morphological indicators of CNS repair in rats after 10-minute circulation arrest]	Therapeutic effect of sodium succinate on various functional, biochemical, and morphological parameters of CNS repair was studied in experiments on rats exposed to 10-min circulation arrest. The first series of experiments was devoted to studies of the effects of the drug, injected intraperitoneally directly after recovery of effective cardiac activity and during the subsequent 5 days in doses 20, 100, and 200 mg/kg, on the survival and recovery of the external neurologic status. The dose of 20 mg/kg proved to be the most effective. The second series of experiments was devoted to therapeutic effect of sodium succinate in the same dose injected from day 3 to day 7 after revival on the orientation and investigation behaviour in an "open field" test, on changes in radical formation in the blood serum and the brain, and on the cholesterol/lipid ratio in the brain, as well as on the morphologic changes in the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum. In contrast to untreated animals, the treated ones had a less intensive reaction in the "open field" test in response to acute stressor exposure, their cerebral and blood serum levels of free radical processes were reduced, the destruction of neuronal membranous elements was less intensive, as were dystrophic changes in the cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. The data permit a conclusion about antistressor and protective effect of sodium succinate in the postresuscitation period at the functional, biochemical, and morphological levels.
Myocardial metabolic markers of total ischemia in vitro.	The influence of total ischemia on the formation of products of anaerobic metabolism was investigated in canine hearts in vitro. Contents of organic acids were quantitatively analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and high energy phosphate compounds were determined using the luciferin-luciferase enzyme system. During a 10-min period of total ischemia, myocardial creatine phosphate significantly decreased, while ATP remained unchanged as compared with preischemic values. Both 10 min and 60 min of ischemia induced significant increase in tissue succinic acid levels. In contrast, a significant increase in myocardial lactic acid content was only induced with 60 min of ischemia. The data obtained indicate that the accumulation of succinic acid may be regarded as a potential metabolic marker of myocardial total ischemia.
Correlation between myocardial blood flow and tissue succinate during acute ischemia.	This study was performed to clarify the relationship between degree plus duration of myocardial ischemia and tissue succinate or lactate contents, and to assess whether their accumulation might be a metabolic marker of ischemic myocardium. Regional myocardial blood flow (MBF) was measured using the hydrogen gas clearance method in anesthetized open-chest dogs subjected to 10 min or 60 min of myocardial ischemia by coronary ligation. The contents of succinic acid and lactic acid in myocardium corresponding to locations of MBF measurement were quantitatively analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. In severely ischemic areas with MBF less than 20 ml/min/100g, significant increases in both succinic and lactic acids were observed 10 min after coronary occlusion. Sixty min of ischemia induced significant increase in the myocardial succinic acid content not only in severely but also in moderately ischemic areas. In contrast, lactic acid was significantly increased only in the severely ischemic area 60 min after coronary occlusion. These results indicate a good correlation between degree plus duration of myocardial ischemia and tissue succinic acid content, suggesting that its accumulation in myocardium may be a reliable and sensitive metabolic marker of coronary ligation ischemia.
Effect of a sublethal dose of sodium nitrite on respiration and oxidative phosphorylation in the rat liver mitochondria]	A sublethal dose of sodium nitrates (60 mg/kg) 30 min after intraperitoneal administration to rats increases ADP-stimulated respiration, when succinate is used as the substrate. Its stimulating action is associated with an increase of efficiency of oxygen utilization. Intraperitoneal administration of succinic acid in a dose of 25 mg/kg normalizes changes induced by nitrites. Stress and hypoxic factors in the action of nitrites on aerobic processes in mitochondria are discussed.
Inducibility of the TOL catabolic pathway in Pseudomonas putida (pWW0) growing on succinate in continuous culture: evidence of carbon catabolite repression control.	The TOL catabolic genes in Pseudomonas putida (pWW0) are clustered in the upper operon, encoding enzymes for the conversion of toluene and xylenes to benzoate and toluates, and the meta-cleavage operon, encoding enzymes for the conversion of the benzoate and toluates to tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. In this study, it was shown that cells growing in a chemostat under succinate growth-limiting conditions express both the upper and meta-cleavage pathways in response to o-xylene, a nonmetabolizable effector of the XylR regulatory protein. The dilution rate maintained in the succinate-limited chemostat cultures influenced the synthesis levels of TOL pathway enzymes, their steady-state levels, and their turnover rates. Cells growing in the presence of nonlimiting concentrations of succinate in continuous culture did not express pathway enzymes in response to the addition of o-xylene, which was due to a blockage at the transcriptional level. Expression of the meta-cleavage pathway in response to 2,3-dimethylbenzoate, a nonmetabolizable effector of the XylS regulatory protein, was 93% lower in cultures exposed to succinate at nonlimiting concentrations than in the succinate-limited chemostats. The mRNA level of xylS during nonlimited growth on succinate was very low compared with that in succinate-limited cultures, suggesting that suppression of expression of the meta-cleavage pathway is regulated mainly by the level of the XylS regulator.
Spin trapping of azidyl and hydroxyl radicals in azide-inhibited rat brain submitochondrial particles.	Succinate-driven respiration in azide-inhibited rat brain submitochondrial particles (smps) produces azidyl and hydroxyl radicals that were detected by spin trapping with 5,5'-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). Production of radicals required succinate and oxygen and was eliminated by heat denaturation, which indicates that radical production is a result of respiration. The concentrations of both DMPO/.OH and DMPO/.N3 were decreased by addition of catalase to the smps, which indicates that H2O2 is involved in radical production. In the absence of azide anion, DMPO/.OH was not detected in the same system, even after five additions of succinate over a period of 24 h. It is proposed that azide inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase results in increased production of superoxide, which is efficiently converted to hydrogen peroxide by membrane-bound superoxide dismutase. Hydrogen peroxide activates endogenous peroxidase to react with azide anion forming azidyl radical, which damages the peroxidase, resulting in decreased production of azidyl radical with successive additions of succinate. Hydroxyl radical is produced from the hydrogen peroxide that is not removed by peroxidase. The increased production of superoxide in the azide-inhibited system suggests that loss of cytochrome c oxidase activity can lead to increased radical production if other proteins in the respiratory chain remain active. In the azide-inhibited system, reaction of azide anion with H2O2-activated endogenous peroxidase and spin-trapping of the resulting azidyl radical is a convenient monitor of H2O2 production.
Succinate-ethanol fermentation in Clostridium kluyveri: purification and characterisation of 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydratase/vinylacetyl-CoA delta 3-delta 2-isomerase.	Anaerobically prepared cell extracts of Clostridium kluyveri grown on succinate plus ethanol contained high amounts of 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydratase, which catalyzes the reversible dehydration of 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA. The enzyme was purified 12-fold under strictly anaerobic conditions to over 95% homogeneity and had a specific activity of 123 nkat mg-1. The finding of this dehydratase means that all of the enzymes necessary for fermentation of succinate plus ethanol by C. kluyveri have now been demonstrated to exist in this organism and confirms the proposed pathway involving a reduction of succinate via 4-hydroxybutyrate to butyrate. Interestingly, the enzyme is almost identical to the previously isolated 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydratase from Clostridium aminobutyricum. The dehydratase was revealed as being a homotetramer (m = 59 kDa/subunit), containing 2 +/- 0.2 mol FAD, 13.6 +/- 0.8 mol Fe and 10.8 +/- 1.2 mol inorganic sulfur. The enzyme was irreversibly inactivated after exposure to air. Reduction by sodium dithionite also yielded an inactive enzyme which could be reactivated, however, up to 84% by oxidation with potassium hexacyanoferrate(III). The enzyme possesses an intrinsic vinylacetyl-CoA isomerase activity which was also found in 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydratase from C. aminobutyricum. Moreover, the N-terminal sequences of the dehydratases from both organisms were found to be 63% identical.
Role of cellular energy status in tocopheryl hemisuccinate cytoprotection against ethyl methanesulfonate-induced toxicity.	Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that the administration of alpha-tocopheryl hemisuccinate (TS), but not unesterified alpha-tocopherol (T), protects hepatocytes from a variety of toxic insults including chemicals, drugs, metals, and oxidative stress. One possible mechanism for this unique cytoprotection is that succinate released from cellular TS is used as a supplemental energy source during a toxic challenge. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effect of TS (25 microM) administration on cell viability, lipid peroxidation, and several cellular energy-related processes such as mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP, psi delta), lactate formation, and ATP and K+ concentrations in isolated hepatocyte suspensions during a toxic challenge with the alkylating agent, ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). Data from these studies demonstrate that EMS treatment results in rapid cell death and lipid peroxidation following 2 h of incubation. Preceding EMS-induced cell death was a rapid loss of MMP, intracellular ATP and K+ levels, and mitochondrial ultrastructure as well as a transient increase in cellular lactate production. Pretreatment of hepatocytes with TS prior to EMS exposure prevented the loss of MMP and mitochondrial ultrastructural changes as well as lipid peroxidation and cell death. Cellular ATP levels and lactate production did not reflect the protection afforded to TS-treated hepatocytes. Protection against EMS-induced toxicity was not observed when hepatocytes were: (i) pretreated with TS and esterase inhibitors (preventing T and succinate release from TS); (ii) pretreated with other lipophilic succinate derivatives (cholesteryl hemisuccinate, monomethyl and dimethyl succinate); or (iii) pretreated with T and sodium succinate. Unlike monomethyl succinate, cytoprotective TS pretreatment did not stimulate gluconeogenesis or glycolysis. Hepatocytes isolated from rats pretreated for 24 h with T were not protected from the toxic effects of EMS, unlike TS-pretreated rats. In conclusion, TS cytoprotection against the mitochondrial toxicant EMS appears to be related to the hepatocellular accumulation of TS and the maintenance of mitochondrial function (MMP). Based on our earlier findings and the present observations, we propose that a unique subcellular disposition for TS and the subsequent release of T and succinate at a critical mitochondrial site is responsible for the observed cytoprotection.
Mitochondrial disease and reduced sperm motility.	Mitochondrial dysfunction reduces aerobic energy production and results in symptoms from various tissues, depending on metabolic demands. Mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is essential for sperm motility. Sperm motility was investigated in a patient with a mitochondrial disease caused by reduced activity of the mitochondrial enzyme complexes I and IV, and in two control subjects. Spermatozoa were cultured in media containing various energy substrates. Motility was judged by light microscopy, and ultrastructure by transmission electron microscopy. In the patient with mitochondrial disease, 12% of the spermatozoa were motile in the medium containing only glucose. There was a three-fold increase in motile spermatozoa when pyruvate and succinate were present together with glucose. In contrast, the spermatozoa of both control subjects had best motility in the presence of substrates for complex I, and no further increase was observed when succinate was added. Glucose and pyruvate enter the respiratory chain at complex I, and succinate at complex II. Electron microscopy of spermatozoa from the patient with mitochondrial disease revealed mitochondria with increased matrix, thickening of membranes, parallelization of cristae and lipid inclusions, which are characteristic findings in mitochondrial disorders. Abnormal mitochondria were also found in a spermatid, suggesting that the ultrastructural changes of mitochondria are primary rather than secondary to degeneration of the spermatozoa. The results indicate that mitochondrial dysfunction causes reduced sperm motility in some men.
Effect of renal ischaemia on organic compound transport in rabbit kidney proximal tubule.	This study was carried out to determine the effect of renal ischaemia on transport systems for organic compounds in the rabbit kidney proximal tubule. Ischaemia for 30 or 60 min. induced glucosuria and phosphaturia, which was accompanied by polyuria and natriuresis. The Na(+)-dependent uptake of glucose, succinate and L-glutamate by brush-border membrane vesicles was not altered by 30 or 60 min. of ischaemia, while the H+/tetraethylammonium antiport was significantly inhibited after 30 min. of ischaemia. When the duration of ischaemia was extended to 120 min. the uptake of glucose and succinate by brush-border membrane vesicles was also significantly attenuated, but the L-glutamate uptake was not altered. The uptake of glucose, succinate and L-glutamate by basolateral membrane vesicles was not impaired even with 120 min. of ischaemia, suggesting that transport systems for organic compounds in the brush-border membrane are more sensitive to ischaemia than those in the basolateral membrane. Ouabain-sensitive oxygen consumption in renal cortical slices was not depressed by 60 min. of ischaemia. When kidneys were reperfused for 60 min. following 60 min. of ischaemia, the Na(+)-glucose and Na(+)-succinate cotransport and the H+/tetraethylammonium antiport were not different from the control, but the recovery of alkaline phosphatase was significantly reduced. When kidneys were subjected to ischaemia for 60 min., a loss of brush-border microvilli and plasma membrane was observed after 5 or 60 min. of reflow in the proximal convoluted tubule. After 3 hr of reflow, focal necrosis appeared although the microvilli were partially regenerated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of steam sterilization on the properties of set dental gypsum models.	The aim of this study was to investigate the viability of autoclave sterilization of set dental gypsum models. The effects of autoclaving on the strength, surface hardness and dimensions of specimens of plaster, stone and diestone were investigated. In addition, sodium succinate was used to minimize any changes produced by autoclaving. It has been shown that dental gypsum casts can be successfully steam sterilized. The results showed that for fully-dried gypsum products, autoclaving at 132 degrees C for 5 minutes rendered the casts unacceptable for use. Autoclaving at 121 degrees C for 16 minutes had less effect although casts were still not satisfactory, with the main problems being excessive expansion for plaster and significant strength and surface hardness loss for stone and diestone. The effect of three additional treatment procedures was examined and the least degradation was observed when the casts were soaked in 1 per cent sodium succinate solution and dried prior to autoclaving, then soaked in water immediately after. Using this procedure the average change in properties for plaster, stone and diestone respectively were: loss of strength 36, 21 and 28 per cent, loss of surface hardness 34, 21 and 33 per cent, and linear expansion 0.05, 0.09 and 0.13 per cent. Further refinement may improve the procedure.
Kinetic analysis of the mitochondrial quinol-oxidizing enzymes during development of thermogenesis in Arum maculatum L.	The dependence of the rate of oxygen uptake upon the ubiquinone (Q)-pool reduction level in mitochondria isolated during the development of thermogenesis of Arum maculatum spadices has been investigated. At the alpha-stage of development, the respiratory rate was linearly dependent upon the reduction level of the Q-pool (Qr) both under state-3 and -4 conditions. Progression through the beta/gamma to the delta-stage resulted in a non-linear dependence of the state-4 rate on Qr. In the delta-stage of development, both state-3 and -4 respiratory rates were linearly dependent upon Qr due to a shift in the engagement of the alternative oxidase to lower levels of Qr. Western blot analysis revealed that increased alternative oxidase activity could be correlated with expression of a 35 kDa protein. Respiratory control was only observed with mitochondria in the alpha-stage of development. At the beta/gamma-stage of development, the addition of ADP resulted in a significant oxidation of the Q-pool which was accompanied by a decrease in the respiratory rate. This was due either to decreased contribution of the alternative pathway to the overall respiratory rate under state 3 or by deactivation of succinate dehydrogenase activity by ADP. Cold-storage of the spadices at the beta-stage of development led to increased activity of both the cytochrome pathway and succinate dehydrogenase, without any change in alternative oxidase activity. Results are discussed in terms of how changes in the activation level of the alternative oxidase and succinate dehydrogenase influence the activity and engagement of the quinol-oxidizing pathways during the development of thermogenesis in A. maculatum.
Effects of low concentrations of dietary cobalt on rumen succinate concentration in sheep.	Sheep fed diets containing less than 70 micrograms Co per kg develop vitamin B12 deficiency. When sheep were fed diets containing 20 micrograms Co per kg or less, mean rumen succinate concentrations increased by more than one hundred-fold within 2 days. This increase was matched by an equimolar decrease in mean rumen propionate concentrations. When diets containing more than 20 micrograms Co per kg were fed to sheep, no such changes occurred. The synthesis of succinyl CoA from propionyl CoA in liver is impaired in ovine cobalt deficiency. We suggested that, paradoxically, accumulation of rumen succinate could reduce the effects of vitamin B12 deficiency on methylmalonyl CoA mutase and consequently result in lower plasma methylmalonic acid (MMA) concentrations than would arise by feeding diets that did not affect rumen succinate concentrations. This hypothesis was tested by feeding diets containing 4, 40 and 1000 micrograms Co per kg to sheep for 23 weeks. However, sheep fed 40 micrograms Co per kg did not have mean plasma MMA concentrations that were higher than those in the sheep fed 4 micrograms Co per kg, indicating that rumen succinate accumulation did not ameliorate the effects of Co deficiency.
Kinetics of modification of the mitochondrial succinate-ubiquinone reductase by 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitro-benzoic acid).	The kinetic theory of the substrate reaction during modification of enzyme activity previously described by Tsou [Tsou (1988), Adv. Enzymol. Relat. Areas Mol. Biol. 61, 381-436] has been applied to a study of the kinetics of the course of inactivation of the mitochondrial succinate-ubiquinone reductase by 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitro-benzoic acid) (DTNB). The results show that the inactivation of this enzyme by DTNB is a conformation-change-type inhibition which involves a conformational change of the enzyme before inactivation. The microscopic rate constants were determined for the reaction of the inactivator with the enzyme. The presence of the substrate provides marked protection of this enzyme against inactivation by DTNB. The modification reaction of the enzyme using DTNB was shown to follow a triphasic course by following the absorption at 412 nm. Among these reactive thiol groups, the fast-reaction thiol group is essential for the enzyme activity. The results suggest that the essential thiol group is situated at the succinate-binding site of the mitochondrial succinate-ubiquinone reductase.
