Identification, separation, and preliminary characterization of invertase and beta-galactosidase in Actinomyces viscosus.	The initial step of disaccharide dissimilation by Actinomyces viscosus serotype 2 strain M-100 was studied. Sucrase activity was found in the 3,000 X g particulate fraction and the 37,000 X g soluble fraction of the cells, whereas lactase activity was found almost exclusively in the 37,000 X g soluble fraction. Neither sucrase nor lactase activity was appreciable in the culture liquor. Sucrose phosphorylase, alpha-glucosidase, and polysaccharide synthesis activities were not observed in the soluble cell fraction. The sucrase was identified as invertase (EC 3.2.1.26; beta-D-fructofuranoside fructohydrolase). The lactase was identified as beta-galactosidase (EC 3.2.1.23; beta-D-galactoside galactohydrolase). The enzymes in the 37,000 X g soluble fraction were separable by diethylamino-ethyl-cellulose chromatography, giving one beta-galactosidase peak and one major and one minor invertase peak. Acrylamide gel electrophoresis showed different electrophoretic mobilities of the enzymes. The molecular weight of the beta-galactosidase is about 4.2 X 10(5) and that of invertase is about 8.6 X 10(4). The beta-galactosidase has a Km for lactose of about 6 mM and a pH optimum between pH 6.0 and 6.5. The major invertase component has a Km for sucrose of about 71 mM and a pH optimum between pH 5.8 and 6.3.
Glycosidases of the guinea pig brush border membrane.	The separation by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and subsequent enzymatic analysis of the components of the guinea pig intestinal brush border membrane revealed the presence of three enzyme complexes: maltase-glucoamylase, maltase-sucrase-glucoamylase and maltase-sucrase. Additional bands possessing lactase, trehalase and alkaline phosphatase activity were identified but no phlorizin hydrolase or palatinase was detectable. After exposure to strong dissociating conditions the bands possessing enzymatic activity were either absent or greatly reduced in intensity.
Glycosidases in Leishmania and their importance for Leishmania in phlebotomine sandflies with special reference to purification and characterization of a sucrase.	Culture forms of Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis (IFLA/BR/67/PH8) produce an extracellular enzyme that hydrolyzes sucrose molecules into their component monosaccharides. This is important because phlebotomine sand flies, the invertebrate hosts of Leishmania, ingest plant sap or aphid and coccid honeydew rich in sucrose between blood meals and Leishmania promastigotes cannot uptake sucrose. The sucrase was purified and characterized; its molecular weight, estimated by gel filtration chromatography and SDS-PAGE electrophoresis, was about 73 kDa. K(m) and V(max) measured with sucrose as substrate were respectively 4.4 mM and 6.9 mumole glucose.min-1 (mg sucrase)-1, with maximum pH activity at pH 5.5. A series of natural and p-nitrophenyl-derived substrates were assayed, characterizing the enzyme as a highly specific beta-D-fructofuranoside fructohydrolase. When 11 species of Leishmania and 7 genera of trypanosomatids were screened, only the species of the genus Trypanosoma did not produce an enzyme with saccharolytic activity. These data are in agreement with the fact that the latter vectors do not acquire sucrose or raffinose in their meals. Searching for glycolytic enzymes other than sucrase, we found an N-acetyl-beta-D-galactosaminolytic activity. This N-acetyl-galactosaminidase, here described for the first time, might have a role in peritrophic membrane disruption. The importance of sucrase and N-acetyl-beta-D-galactosaminidase in the Leishmania life cycle is discussed.
