Altered absorption of digoxin, sustained-release quinidine, and warfarin with sucralfate administration.	A case is reported of a 71-year-old woman who displayed altered absorption of digoxin, quinidine sulfate, and warfarin sodium after being given sucralfate. The administration of sucralfate resulted in subtherapeutic serum concentrations of digoxin and quinidine, and also reduced the patient's prothrombin time (PT). Discontinuation of sucralfate increased PT and reestablished therapeutic concentrations of digoxin, quinidine, and warfarin. Patients receiving sucralfate concomitantly with digoxin, quinidine, and warfarin should be monitored frequently with regard to serum drug concentration and disease symptomatology.
Sucralfate--safety and side effects.	The safety of sucralfate in terms of aluminium absorption, excretion, tissue accumulation, and toxicity is discussed, with special reference to the small amount of aluminium absorbed, its ready excretion by the normal kidney, and the hazard of toxicity in patients with advanced renal failure. The various manifestations of aluminium toxicity are described, and the notion that Alzheimer's disease should be included in this category is refuted. The clinical relevance of possible intraluminal binding and drug-drug interactions in patients receiving sucralfate therapy is also considered. Evidence is presented to show that sucralfate reduces the hyperphosphataemia in chronic uraemia, albeit at the risk of raised blood aluminium levels, but has no measurable effect on normal phosphate levels in patients with good renal function. The bioavailability of phenytoin, fluoroquinolone antibiotics, and H2-receptor blockers may be impaired by concomitant dosing with sucralfate, but normal kinetics are restored by administering the drug 2 h before sucralfate.
Comparison of the effect of sucralfate and ranitidine in reflux esophagitis.	A total of 49 patients with primary reflux esophagitis were treated in a randomized controlled study at six trial centers. Treatment was given for eight weeks and consisted of daily doses of either 1 g of sucralfate suspension four times daily or one 150-mg ranitidine film-coated tablet twice daily. The evaluation of effect was based on data from 41 patients; 22 of these had received sucralfate, and 19 had received ranitidine. Reflux esophagitis was healed after eight weeks of treatment in 14 sucralfate-treated patients and in 13 ranitidine-treated patients. Alterations in the esophageal mucosa were established by endoscopic examination; the severity of these alterations was expressed in degrees using the Savary-Miller method of classification. The greater the degree of severity as assessed before treatment, the lower were the chances of the condition being completely healed. The endoscopic findings after treatment did not show any difference in the effect of the sucralfate and ranitidine treatments (p greater than 0.05). Both forms of treatment were also found to have a similar positive effect on the subjective symptoms recorded. Overall tolerance of the two forms of treatment was good. One patient treated with ranitidine had to discontinue treatment because of an allergic rash. Based on these results, sucralfate seems to be an effective alternative for the treatment of reflux esophagitis.
Sucralfate versus placebo in treatment of non-ulcer dyspepsia.	One hundred fifty-one patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia, defined as chronic epigastric pain without concomitant symptoms of the irritable bowel syndrome and with no evidence of any organic disease other than macroscopic or microscopic gastritis/duodenitis seen at endoscopy on entry into the trial, were randomly assigned to treatment for four weeks with sucralfate or a placebo, 1 g three times a day one-half hour before meals, according to a double-blind model. Seventy-nine patients received sucralfate and 72 patients received a placebo. According to patients' subjective assessment of their symptoms at four weeks, 61 patients (77 percent) in the sucralfate group and 40 patients (56 percent) in the placebo group had become symptom-free or showed improvement, whereas the condition of 18 (23 percent) in the former group compared with 32 (44 percent) in the latter group remained unchanged or deteriorated. The difference between the groups was significant (p less than 0.01). The best response to sucralfate treatment (84 percent or more symptom-free or improved) was achieved in patients with mild or moderate symptoms and without macroscopic or microscopic inflammation of their gastric mucosa--a typical patient with non-ulcer dyspepsia. Our results indicate that sucralfate is significantly more effective than placebo in the treatment of non-ulcer dyspepsia.
Sucralfate treatment of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastrointestinal symptoms and mucosal damage.	In a randomized, double-blind trial, sucralfate therapy, 1 g four times daily, was compared with placebo in 143 symptomatic patients to assess the treatment of gastrointestinal symptoms and gastric mucosal damage associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). All patients followed a fixed regimen of NSAIDs, were assigned to one of two groups based on the presence or absence of gastric erosions at baseline endoscopy, and were then assigned randomly to receive sucralfate or placebo for four weeks. Patients were then followed for up to six months while receiving open-label sucralfate 1 g twice daily to up to 1 g four times daily. After four weeks of double-blind therapy, patients taking either nonsalicylate NSAIDs or long half-life NSAIDs and who were treated with sucralfate experienced a significant reduction in both peptic symptom frequency and intensity (p less than 0.03) as compared with patients receiving placebo. Sucralfate-treated patients with baseline endoscopic lesions showed a significant reduction in lesion scores (p less than 0.005) at four weeks as compared with baseline, whereas no improvement was observed in gastric mucosal lesions of patients given placebo. Long-term sucralfate therapy resulted in continued improvement in gastrointestinal symptoms and gastric lesion scores in patients receiving all types of NSAIDs. The results indicate that sucralfate used in conjunction with NSAIDs may allow patients to continue therapy by relieving gastrointestinal symptoms and mucosal damage associated with NSAID therapy.
Nocturnal dosage regimen of sucralfate in maintenance treatment of gastric ulcer.	Sixty-six patients with recently healed gastric ulcers were entered into a double-blind, placebo-controlled, six-month maintenance trial to determine whether sucralfate 2 g at night reduces the liability to recurrent ulceration. Thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to treatment with sucralfate and 33 were assigned to placebo. Endoscopy was performed at the time of entry into the study and at 24 weeks, or earlier if clinical relapse occurred during this period. Of the patients available for analysis, endoscopic recurrences were found in eight of the 29 patients (28 percent) randomly assigned to sucralfate and in 15 of the 27 patients (56 percent) assigned to placebo. Eight of the recurrences noted at 24 weeks were asymptomatic and, of these, five were in the placebo-treated group. The cumulative relapse rate at 24 weeks was significantly lower in the sucralfate-treated group (p less than 0.05), and the Cox-Mantel text showed a significant difference between the cumulative relapse curves of the two treatment groups over the 24-week period (p less than 0.05). The results indicate that a single maintenance dose of sucralfate 2 g at night reduces the relapse rate in patients with recently healed gastric ulceration.
Sucralfate and cimetidine as maintenance treatment in the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence.	This multicenter trial investigated the ability of the cytoprotective agent sucralfate and the antisecretory agent cimetidine to prevent ulcer relapses. Seventy-one patients with recently healed duodenal ulcer were included, randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups, and administered sucralfate 2 g per day or cimetidine 400 mg per day for six months; the treatment period was followed by another six months of follow-up without treatment. The response to therapy was evaluated by systematic single-blind endoscopy controls during the sixth and the 12th months. Quantitative (42 percent relapse rate with sucralfate and 52 percent with cimetidine) as well as qualitative (20 percent silent relapses with sucralfate and 47 percent with cimetidine) differences were observed, although these could not be demonstrated to be statistically significant.
Clinical efficacy of sucralfate in reflux esophagitis. Comparison with cimetidine.	Sucralfate has been evaluated in reflux esophagitis, based on its protective adherence to denuded surfaces, its bile salt-binding properties, and its cytoprotective properties. Histamine (H2)-receptor blockers are currently considered the standard therapy. The goal of this study was to compare the potential efficacy of sucralfate with that of cimetidine. A single-blind, randomized, multicenter study was performed in 42 patients with endoscopically documented reflux esophagitis. Patients were randomly given 1 g of sucralfate suspension four times daily or 400 mg of cimetidine four times daily for eight weeks. Forty patients were evaluated after eight weeks. Symptomatic improvement was good and comparable in both groups. In two patients given sucralfate and one given cimetidine, side effects were noted but did not necessitate withdrawal from the study. Endoscopy showed improvement in 53 percent of patients and healing of esophagitis in 31 percent after sucralfate treatment. With cimetidine, improvement was seen in 67 percent and healing occurred in 14 percent. In one patient receiving cimetidine, distal esophageal stenosis developed, requiring dilatation therapy. It is concluded that treatment with sucralfate improves the symptomatology and severity of reflux esophagitis. The results obtained with sucralfate appear comparable to those with cimetidine. Sucralfate may therefore be considered as a valid alternative to H2-receptor antagonist therapy in treating reflux esophagitis.
Elevation of serum aluminum in humans on a two-day sucralfate regimen.	Serum aluminum concentrations were determined in ten healthy subjects treated with phenytoin 500 mg and with sucralfate and phenytoin in a crossover fashion. Each subject received four 1,000-mg sucralfate tablets between 8 AM and 10 PM one day before the study, and this was repeated during the study day. A total of eight doses of sucralfate was administered over the two-day period. Serum samples were drawn at 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 32, and 48 hours after administration. The areas under the serum aluminum concentration-time curves before and after sucralfate (mean +/- SD) were 496.0 +/- 80.9 and 770.9 +/- 146.6 hr-ng/mL, respectively. This increase is statistically significant (P less than .01), indicating that serum aluminum levels are elevated even after two days of treatment with sucralfate. The results from this study are not in agreement with the only other report on this subject.
Sucralfate in the prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse and factors influencing the relapse rate.	Forty three subjects with DU confirmed at endoscopy and healed after eight weeks of sucralfate therapy were subjected to a randomized double-blind controlled trial for six months. Twenty one subjects received sucralfate (1 g one hour before breakfast and dinner). Twenty two subjects received placebo. Symptoms were evaluated every month. The subjects were endoscoped at the end of the trial or earlier in case symptoms recurred. Sucralfate was found to be significantly more effective than placebo (6/21 vs. 17/22, p < 0.005) in preventing DU relapse. Age at presentation, age at onset, duration of illness, sex, periodicity, smoking, gastric stasis like symptoms, associated irritable bowel syndrome, degree of deformity of the bulb and initial presence of duodenitis were the factors examined for their effect upon the relapse. In the placebo group relapsers had significantly shorter mean duration of illness indicating that DU may relapse more frequently in earlier part of its natural course. Other factors did not influence the relapse rate. In the sucralfate group, higher ages at onset and at presentation were associated with significantly higher relapse rate. Sucralfate may be less effective in preventing relapse in elderly and late onset DU patients.
A single-dose comparison of the bioavailability of aluminium from two formulations of sucralphate in normal volunteers.	The oral bioavailability of aluminium was compared after administration of 1 g sucralphate as either a tablet or a suspension (1 g/5 ml) in a crossover study in 16 healthy volunteers. Aluminium levels were detectable in all subjects pre-dose (21.4 +/- 8.8 micrograms l-1 before tablet; 21.4 +/- 7.4 micrograms l-1 before suspension) and there was a measurable increase in the plasma concentrations of aluminium in all subjects after administration of the suspension, and in 14 of the subjects after administration of the tablet formulation, with Cmax reached within the first 8 h in most subjects. Plasma levels were still elevated 72 h after dosing. The variability in plasma levels of aluminium was significantly higher after administration of the suspension (CV 39-53%) than after administration of the tablet (CV 29-44%), reflecting greater absorption of aluminium from the suspension formulation in three subjects. Similarly, the variance of the Cmax, AUC(0-72 h), and AUC(0-infinity) (for both the raw data and the baseline adjusted data) were all higher for the suspension than for the tablet. A point estimate of the difference of the pharmacokinetic parameters (determined from the median of the arithmetic Walsh averages) indicated little or no difference in Cmax, Tmax, or AUC(0-infinity) in the two formulations. In summary, the performance of the suspension formulation of sucralphate is more variable than the tablet formulation in vivo and some patients may therefore have higher circulating levels of aluminium on therapy with the suspension formulation.
