Aldose reductase and sorbitol dehydrogenase in the muscle of Ascaris suum (Nematoda).	The muscle of Ascaris suum contains sorbitol dehydrogenase [EC 1.1.1.14] and the apparent Km values indicate that the enzyme favours fructose formation. Aldose reductase [EC 1.1.1.21] is also present and like the mammalian enzyme it has a very high apparent Km for glucose. Possible functions of the sorbitol pathway in Ascaris muscle are discussed.
Synthesis of ascorbate and urate in the ovary of water buffalo.	Blood flow interruption is associated with oxygen depletion and loss of factors for function and survival in downstream tissues or cells. Hypoxia and absence of gonadotropins trigger apoptosis and atresia in the ovary. We studied the antioxidant response of follicular cells to plasma deprivation in ovaries dissected from water buffalo. Aliquots of follicular fluid were aspirated from each antral follicle, before and during incubation of the ovaries at 39 degrees C. Urate, ascorbate, retinol and alpha-tocopherol in the fluid were, titrated by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) with spectrophotometric or spectrofluorimetric detection. The total antioxidant capacity of follicular fluid was determined as absorbance decrease, following addition of a source of radical chromophores. The more the incubation progressed, the higher levels of urate, ascorbate and total antioxidant capacity were found. Conversely, changes in concentration of the liposoluble antioxidants were not observed. Ascorbate synthesizing activity in the follicle was demonstrated by detecting the enzyme L-gulono-gamma-lactone oxidase in microsomes prepared from granulosa cells. These cells were also analyzed for the expression of the enzyme CPP32. The enzyme level, measured as DEVD-p-nitroanilide cleaving activity, was found related with the immunoreactivity to anti-CPP32 antibodies. Negative correlation between the enzyme activity (which is known to be induced by peroxynitrite) and the follicular level of urate (which scavenges peroxynitrite) was also observed. The amount of nitrotyrosine, a product of peroxynitrite attack on proteins, was measured in follicular fluids by Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA). This amount was found positively correlated with the CPP32 activity, and negatively correlated with the urate level in follicular fluid. Alterations in concentrations of ascorbate or urate may be associated with oxidative stress during follicular atresia.
The mannitol cycle in Pleurotus ostreatus (Florida).	In mushroom, presence of the mannitol cycle has not been reported so far although the polyol is supposed to be generated by the reduction of fructose by mannitol dehydrogenase. This study submits evidence for the presence of the mannitol cycle in Pleurotus ostreatus. The key enzyme of the cycle, mannitol-1-phosphate dehydrogenase (M1PDH), was present appreciably in all the developmental stages of the mushroom. However, the enzyme level dropped significantly at the onset of sporulation. The presence of M1DPH was confirmed by isozyme analysis and RT-PCR mediated amplification of a approximately 400 bp DNA fragment.
Glycerol utilization in Fusarium oxysporum var. lini: regulation of transport and metabolism.	Glycerol was transported in the fungus Fusarium oxysporum var. lini by a facilitated diffusion transport system with a half-saturation constant, Ks, of 0.5 mM and a maximum velocity, Vmax, of 0.9 mmol (g dry wt)-1 h-1 at pH 5 and 25 degrees C. 1,2-Propanediol was a competitive inhibitor of glycerol transport, but the cells did not actively accumulate 1,2-propanediol. The transport system was partially constitutive. In cells grown in the presence of glucose, glycerol was not transported, indicating that the synthesis of the system was under glucose repression. Glycerol kinase and NADP(+)-dependent glycerol dehydrogenase activities were present under all physiological conditions tested. A flavin-dependent glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase was induced only when glycerol was the sole energy source in the medium. This enzyme, together with the transport system, constitute the regulated steps in the glycerol metabolic pathway.
Stimulation of reductive glycerol metabolism by overexpression of an aldehyde dehydrogenase in a recombinant Klebsiella pneumoniae strain defective in the oxidative pathway.	Previously, we constructed a glycerol oxidative pathway-deficient mutant strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae by inactivation of glycerol dehydrogenase (dhaD) to eliminate by-product synthesis during production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) from glycerol. Although by-product formation was successfully blocked in the resultant strain, the yield of 1,3-PD was not enhanced, probably because dhaD disruption resulted in insufficient regeneration of the cofactor NADH essential for the activity of 1,3-PD oxidoreductase (DhaT). To improve cofactor regeneration, in the present study we overexpressed an NAD(+)-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase in the recombinant strain. To this end, an aldehyde dehydrogenase AldHk homologous to E. coli AldH but with NAD(+)-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity was identified in K. pneumoniae. Functional analysis revealed that the substrate specificity of AldHk embraced various aldehydes including propionaldehyde, and that NAD(+) was preferred over NADP(+) as a cofactor. Overexpression of AldHk in the glycerol oxidative pathway-deficient mutant AK/pVOTHk resulted in a 3.6-fold increase (0.57 g l(-1) to 2.07 g l(-1)) in the production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), and a 1.1-fold enhancement (8.43 g l(-1) to 9.65 g l(-1)) of 1,3-PD synthesis, when glycerol was provided as the carbon source, compared to the levels synthesized by the control strain (AK/pVOT). Batch fermentation using AK/pVOTHk showed a significant increase (to 70%, w/w) in conversion of glycerol to the reductive metabolites, 1,3-PD and 3-HP, with no production of by-products except acetate.
Aldose reductase in the etiology of diabetic complications. 3. Neuropathy.	Aldose reductase has been shown to be present in both autonomic and somatic nerves. Activation of this enzyme and the polyol pathway has been demonstrated in diabetic animal models to cause a range of biochemical, functional, and structural consequences that include the accumulation of sorbitol and fructose; axoglial dysjunction; paranodal demyelination; abnormalities in axonal transport, blood flow, and vascular permeability; and resistance to ischemic transmission of action potentials. These data provide an insight into the range of processes that if activated may either singly or in combination result in altered patterns of nerve function and structural alterations in diabetic neuropathy. In animal models of diabetes, it has been shown that inhibition of aldose reductase can modify these diabetes-induced changes. It is hoped that the results of large-scale controlled trials will provide clinical evidence to support these data.
Kinetic and structural effects of activation of bovine kidney aldose reductase.	Aldose reductase, purified to homogeneity from bovine kidney, is converted in a temperature-dependent process from a low-Km/low-Vmax form to a high-Km/high-Vmax form of the enzyme. Activation, which results in significant changes in the protein secondary structure, as detected by fluorescence spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and thiol modification with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid), has no effect on the apparent Mr, pI, or homogeneity of the enzyme, as judged by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and agarose isoelectric focusing. Vmax, which varied less than 3-fold for a series of aldehyde substrates with either activation state of the enzyme, increased an average of (17 +/- 4)-fold upon activation of the enzyme. V/Kaldehyde increased or decreased up to 4-fold, depending on the substrate. Activation desensitized the enzyme to inhibition by aldose reductase inhibitors, with the apparent Ki value increasing from 2-fold for Epalrestat [ONO-2235, (E)-3-(carboxymethyl)-(E)-5-[2-methyl-3-phenylpropenylidene]-rhoda nine] to 200-fold for AL-1576 (spiro [2,7-difluorofluorene-9,4'-imidazolidine]-2',5'-dione). Biphasic double-reciprocal plots for the aldehyde substrates and biphasic Dixon plots for inhibition by AL-1576 and Statil [ICI-128,436; 3-[(4-bromo-2-fluorobenzyl)-4-oxo-3H-phthalazin-l-ylacetic acid], observed during the course of activation, are quantitatively accounted for by the individual contributions of the two enzyme forms. On the basis of an analysis of the kinetic data, a mechanism is proposed in which isomerization of the free enzyme limits the rate of the forward reaction for the unactivated enzyme and is the primary step affected by activation.
Glutathione redox state is not the link between polyol pathway activity and myo-inositol-related Na+-K+-ATPase defect in experimental diabetic neuropathy.	Decreased glutathione levels in the ocular lens have been invoked as a possible cause for the decreased lenticular Na+-K+-ATPase in diabetes because both are corrected by aldose reductase inhibitors, and the Na+-K+-ATPase is known to be susceptible to oxidation inactivation. Because an analogous Na+-K+-ATPase defect that is prevented by aldose reductase inhibitors has been described in diabetic peripheral nerve, we examined the effect of streptozocin (STZ) diabetes and aldose reductase inhibition on reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione levels in crude homogenates of rat sciatic nerve. Neither GSSG nor GSH levels were altered by 2 or 8 wk of untreated diabetes or by aldose reductase inhibition. Because the defect in Na+-K+-ATPase is fully expressed by 4 wk of STZ diabetes, we conclude that altered glutathione redox state plays no detectable role in the pathogenesis of this defect in diabetic peripheral nerve.
Characterization and purification of a mammalian osmoregulatory protein, aldose reductase, induced in renal medullary cells by high extracellular NaCl.	GRB-PAP1 is a continuous line of epithelial cells derived from a rabbit renal inner medulla. Elevation of the NaCl concentration in the medium bathing these cells strongly induced the expression of a soluble protein with an apparent molecular mass of 39 kDa. The protein, purified by affinity chromatography with Amicon Matrex Gel Orange A, had enzyme activity characteristic of aldose reductase (alditol:NADPH+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.21). Goat antiserum against this purified aldose reductase selected the 39-kDa band from immunoblots of cells grown in a medium containing high NaCl. When the osmolality of the medium was increased by adding NaCl, the amount of aldose reductase protein and the aldose reductase activity increased together from very low to sustained high levels over several days. The aldose reductase protein was more than 10% of the soluble cell protein when cells were propagated in medium made hyperosmotic by adding NaCl to increase medium osmolality to 600 mosm.kg-1.
In vitro modification of bovine lens aldose reductase activity.	Bovine lens aldose reductase can be activated in crude extracts upon incubation at 37 degrees C at relatively high ionic strength. This phenomenon shows a seasonal occurrence, the enzyme being susceptible to activation only in lenses of animals sacrified in summer. Systems generating oxygen activated species induce the enzyme activation, whereas scavengers of "oxygen radicals" preserve the activated state of the enzyme. Glutathione and other thiol compounds appear to prevent the enzyme activation.
Ascorbic acid and L-gulonolactone oxidase in lagomorphs.	1. The activity of L-gulonolactone oxidase (EC 1.1.3.8) in the liver of eastern cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus) is about 10-fold greater in winter than in summer. 2. L-gulonolactone oxidase activity is low and tissue ascorbate high during all seasons in snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus). 3. Liver contents of ascorbate fall to low levels in L. americanus fed on rabbit chow in the laboratory. 4. The activity of L-gulonolactone oxidase in liver of Sylvilagus and Oryctolagus is depressed by feeding high levels of L-ascorbic acid. 5. The New Zealand White breed of domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) has considerably higher levels of L-gulonolactone oxidase and liver ascorbate than does the Dutch breed. 6. In a wild population of Oryctolagus sampled in Australia L-gulonolactone oxidase levels were intermediate between those of the two domestic breeds and more variable than either.
Properties of the enzymes catalyzing the biosynthesis of lysophosphatidate and its ether analog in cultured fibroblasts from Zellweger syndrome patients and normal controls.	The activities, properties, and steady-state kinetics of the five enzymes catalyzing the synthesis of 1-acyl- and 1-alkyl-sn-glycerol 3-phosphate in the cultured skin fibroblasts from Zellweger syndrome patients and normal controls were studied in detail. Judging from their Km and Vmax values, glycerol phosphate acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.15), acyl/alkyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate reductase (EC 1.1.1.101), and acyl coenzyme A reductase (long-chain alcohol forming), appear to be affected only slightly by the absence of peroxisomes characteristic of the Zellweger syndrome. Glycerophosphate acyltransferase also showed no differences in N-ethylmaleimide sensitivity nor in inhibition by dihydroxyacetone phosphate between these cell types. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.42) and alkyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate synthase (EC 2.5.1.26) have altered activity and kinetic constants in homogenates from Zellweger syndrome fibroblasts. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase has similar Km (DHAP) values in both control and Zellweger syndrome cells; however, the value for the Vmax in Zellweger syndrome cells is only 6% of that found in the controls. This is interpreted as indicating that this enzyme is not defective in this disease but is simply present at a depressed level. Also, this enzyme activity has a maximum rate at pH 7.0-7.5 in the mutant cells as opposed to pH 5.4 in the controls. Acylation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate by control cell homogenate was stimulated by N-ethylmaleimide at both pH 5.7 and 7.5 whereas this activity from Zellweger syndrome cells was slightly inhibited at pH 5.7 and strongly inhibited at pH 7.5. In the absence of detergent, dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase in the Zellweger syndrome cells was much more labile to trypsin than in the control cells. Alkyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate synthase had a slightly higher Km (33 vs 17 microM) for palmitoyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate and a lower Vmax (0.07 vs 0.24 mU/mg protein) in the Zellweger syndrome cells as compared to controls. Although this is a substantial decrease in activity, it probably contributes little to the decreased rate of ether lipid synthesis in these cells. The major problem in this respect is apparently the loss of dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase activity. All of these enzymes, in both control and Zellweger syndrome cell homogenates, are sedimentable by centrifugation at 100,000g. Also, with the exception of dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase they had similar patterns of inactivation by heat in both cell types.
Genetic and enzymatic characterization of the inducible glycerol dissimilatory system of Neurospora crassa.	The glycerol dissimilatory system in Neurospora crassa was analyzed through the characterization of 18 Glp- mutants which were isolated after inositol-less death and filtration enrichment. All mutants obtained by this procedure could be assigned to one of three complementation groups. The subsequent genetic characterization of these glp mutations revealed lesions on the I, II, and VI chromosomes at the glp-1, glp-2, and glp-4 loci, each of which was subjected to fine-structure analysis. Evidence from the enzymatic characterization of these mutants indicated that glp-2 and glp-4 were the structural genes encoding the mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and cytosolic glycerokinase, respectively. Additional evidence, obtained from studies of the inducibility of glycerokinase by glycerol, cold treatment, or deoxyribose, suggests that glp-1 is involved in controlling the expression of glp-4.
Rat lens aldose reductase: rapid purification and comparison with human placental aldose reductase.	Aldose reductase (alditol:NADP oxidoreductase EC .1.1.1.21), an enzyme in the sorbitol pathway which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications, has been purified from rat lens (RLAR) by affinity chromatography with Amicon Matrex Gel Orange A and its properties have been compared to those of purified human placental aldose reductase (HPAR). The RLAR appears to be closely associated with alpha- and beta-crystallin and has a higher affinity for the dye Matrex column than HPAR. The purified enzyme, obtained upon elution from the column, appears as a closely-spaced doublet of approximately 38 K MW on SDS-PAGE which does not immunologically cross-react with antibodies raised against the single 38 K MW HPAR. Antibodies raised against RLAR however do cross-react with HPAR. Kinetic studies indicated both enzymes to have a greater apparent affinity for aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes than for aldose sugars. Compared to DL-glyceraldehyde, RLAR displayed an 80-fold greater affinity for p-nitrobenzaldehyde and a 1000-fold decreased affinity for D-glucose while HPAR displayed a 15-fold greater affinity for p-nitrobenzaldehyde and 600-fold less affinity for D-glucose. Both enzymes displayed only trace activity with 200 mM L-gulonic acid.
Biogenic aldehyde metabolism in rat brain: subcellular distribution of aldose reductase and valproate-sensitive aldehyde reductase.	Reductase activity towards two aldose substrates has been examined in subcellular fractions prepared from rat brain. The reduction of glucuronate, which is sensitive to inhibition by the anticonvulsant drug sodium valproate, corresponds to the major high-Km aldehyde reductase in brain. Xylose reduction that is insensitive to valproate inhibition has characteristics consistent with the activity of aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21). Both enzymes are predominantly localized in the cytosolic fraction. The significance of the location of these two reductases is discussed in relation to the compartmentation of catecholamine metabolism in brain.
Biosynthesis and catabolism of 6-deoxy L-talitol by Klebsiella aerogenes mutants.	A mutant strain of Klebsiella aerogenes was constructed and, when incubated anaerobically with L-fucose and glycerol, synthesized and excreted a novel methyl pentitol, 6-deoxy L-talitol. The mutant was constitutive for the synthesis of L-fucose isomerase but unable to synthesize L-fuculokinase activity. Thus, it could convert the L-fucose to L-fuculose but was incapable of phosphorylating L-fuculose to L-fuculose 1-phosphate. The mutant was also constitutive for the synthesis of ribitol dehydrogenase, and in the presence of sufficient reducing power this latter enzyme catalyzed the reduction of the L-fuculose to 6-deoxy L-talitol. The reducing equivalents required for this reaction were generated by the oxidation of glycerol to dihydroxyacetone with an anaerobic glycerol dehydrogenase. The parent strain of K. aerogenes was unable to utilize the purified 6-deoxy L-talitol as a sole source of carbon and energy for growth; however, mutant could be isolated which had gained this ability. Such mutants were found to be constitutive for the synthesis of ribitol dehydrogenase and were thus capable of oxidizing 6-deoxy L-talitol to L-fuculose. Further metabolism of L-fuculose was shown by mutant analysis to be mediated by the enzymes of the L-fucose catabolic pathway.
The effect of biotin supplementation on ascorbic acid metabolism in chickens.	The objective of the paper was to show the effect of supplementation of biotin (vitamin H) on vitamin C synthesis in chickens. A significant vitamin C increase was observed in kidneys, adrenal glands, liver, glandular stomach, jejunum wall, caecum wall and in blood plasma. A clear increase in the level of D-glucuronic acid was observed in adrenal glands, jejunum wall, and caecum wall. The activity of L-gulono-gamma-oxidase enzyme clearly increased in adrenal glands, jejunum wall and in stomach. The increase in vitamin C synthesis was found in adrenal glands, jejunum, caecum wall and stomach, but accumulation of vitamin C took place in liver and kidneys. The data imply that the supplementation of biotin accelerates vitamin C synthesis in chickens. Biotin, increasing vitamin C level in the organism, indirectly affects all the processes taking place with the participation of vitamin C.
Oscars, Astronotus ocellatus, have a dietary requirement for vitamin C.	We found that vitamin C is an essential nutrient for an Amazonian ornamental fish, the oscar (Astronotus ocellatus). This was demonstrated by the absence of L-gulonolactone oxidase activity, the enzyme responsible for the biosynthesis of vitamin C, in liver or kidney of oscars and by a feeding trial in which oscars without vitamin C dietary supplementation developed clinical deficiency signs. Fish weighing 29.2 +/- 1.9 g were divided into four groups, and each group was fed a casein-based semipurified diet containing 0, 25, 75 or 200 mg ascorbic acid equivalent (AA)/kg diet for 26 wk. Vitamin C was supplemented in the diets as L-ascorbyl-2-polyphosphate, a mixture of phosphate esters of ascorbate, which is more stable to oxidation than AA. At the end of 26 wk, fish fed no AA had significantly lower weight gain than fish fed the AA-supplemented diets (P < 0.05). Oscars without dietary AA supplementation gained only 37% of their initial weight, compared with 112, 102 and 91% gained by fish fed 25, 75 and 200 mg AA/kg diet, respectively. After 25 wk without dietary supplementation of AA, fish began to develop clinical deficiency signs, including deformed opercula and jaws, hemorrhage in the eyes and fins, and lordosis. Histology indicated that fish without AA supplementation had deformed gill filament support cartilage and atrophied muscle fibers. Collagen content of the vertebral column was significantly lower in fish devoid of dietary AA (P < 0.05). Liver AA concentration varied in proportion to dietary concentration of AA. The minimum dietary AA concentration tested in this study, 25 mg AA/kg diet, was sufficient to prevent growth reduction and AA deficiency signs in oscars.
