A comparative study of the effect of pyrazole on the activity of enzymes in the alcohol/polyol dehydrogenase family]	A comparative study of the effect of pyrazol, an inhibitor of the coenzyme-binding site of alcohol dehydrogenases, on the activity of enzymes of the alcohol/polyol dehydrogenase group has been carried out. Commercial preparations of alcohol dehydrogenases from the cytoplasm of horse liver cells and yeast cells, as well as the enzyme from the cytoplasm of Trichosporon pullulans cells was completely inhibited by 1 mM pyrazol, while alcohol dehydrogenases from Candida utilis and Saccharomyces carlsbergensis were inhibited only by 25% and the enzymes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Torulopsis candida by 30 and 38%, respectively. The inhibition degree of alcohol dehydrogenases from the cytoplasm of liver cells of various mammals (bull, calf, rat, gopher) and birds (hen, pheasant, duck) varied from 12 to 42% in the presence of 1 mM pyrazol. The activity of sorbitol dehydrogenase from the liver cytoplasm of these mammals and birds changed neither in the presence of 1 mM pyrazol, nor in the case of a 15-fold increase of the inhibitor concentration. Possible structural differences in the coenzyme-binding site of the active center of the enzymes under study are discussed.
Treatment with an aldose reductase inhibitor can reduce the susceptibility of fast axonal transport following nerve compression in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat.	The effect of treatment with an aldose reductase inhibitor on the susceptibility of peripheral nerves to compression was studied in rats made diabetic by the injection of streptozotocin (50 mg.kg-1). The response to nerve compression was determined in untreated diabetic rats after 22 days of diabetes and compared with the response in two similar groups of diabetic rats which had been treated with the aldose reductase inhibitor 'Statil' (ICI 128436; 25 mg.kg-1.day-1 orally) either from the induction of diabetes or for 7 days prior to nerve compression. Two groups of non-diabetic rats were treated with 'Statil' for either 22 days or 7 days to act as controls. Inhibition of fast axonally transported proteins was induced by local compression of the sciatic nerves 4 h after application of 3H-leucine to the motor neurone cell bodies in the spinal cord. The inhibition of fast axonal transport was quantified by calculation of a transport block ratio. Compression at 30 mmHg for 3 h induced a significantly greater (p less than 0.05) inhibition of axonal transport at the site of compression in nerves of untreated diabetic rats (transport block ratio 0.96 +/- 0.24, n = 8) than in nerves of control rats treated with the aldose reductase inhibitor for either the shorter time of 7 days (0.71 +/- 0.17, n = 10) or the longer time of 22 days (0.69 +/- 0.08, n = 5).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of aldose reductase inhibition and insulin treatment on retinal capillary basement membrane thickening in BB rats.	This study compared the effect of glycemic control with insulin to that of the aldose reductase inhibitor ponalrestat on capillary basement membrane thickening in the retinas of diabetic BB rats. Diabetic animals with or without ponalrestat treatment were compared with diabetic rats subjected to vigorous insulin therapy or nondiabetic control rats with or without ponalrestat treatment after 6 mo of follow-up. Untreated diabetic animals showed the characteristic capillary basement membrane thickening in both the superficial and deep capillary beds of the retina. Vigorous blood glucose control with insulin therapy was accompanied by a complete prevention of capillary basement membrane thickening in both capillary beds, whereas aldose reductase inhibitor treatment achieved a complete prevention of basement membrane thickening in the deep capillary bed but not in the superficial capillary bed of the diabetic retina. These findings suggest that the mechanisms responsible for capillary basement membrane thickening in diabetes may be varied and modulated by topographical peculiarities in various capillary beds.
Improvement of nerve conduction velocity in mutant diabetic mice by aldose reductase inhibitor without affecting nerve myo-inositol content.	The sciatic motor nerve conduction velocity of mutant diabetic C57BL/Ks mice was significantly improved from 30.0 +/- 1.4 to 38.0 +/- 4.6 m/s by treatment with the aldose reductase inhibitor 1-[(beta-naphthyl)sulfonyl]hydantoin (30 mg/kg/d) for 2 weeks. The treatment, however, did not cause any significant change in myo-inositol concentration in the sciatic nerve. The results indicate that the ameliorating effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor on nerve conduction velocity in mutant diabetic mice is not due to alteration of myo-inositol content in the nerve.
Inhibition of human placenta aldose reductase by tannic acid.	Tannic acid was found to be a highly potent inhibitor of human placenta aldose reductase. The most potent inhibitory component of the tannic acid was isolated and identified as penta-O-galloyl-beta-D-glucose, which showed an IC50 value of 70 nM. The inhibition by the gallotannin was reversible and of mixed type with respect to DL-glyceraldehyde as the varied substrate.
Glomerular basement membrane thickening in streptozotocin diabetic rats despite treatment with an aldose reductase inhibitor.	This study concerns the possible prevention of glomerular basement membrane thickening in experimental diabetes by an aldose reductase inhibitor (ARI), Statil. ARI added to the chow was given to streptozotocin diabetic rats over a period of 6 months. Reference groups were control rats and diabetic rats on the same chow without ARI. The diabetic rats were given insulin two or three times a week, and blood glucose was measured monthly before insulin injections. There was a marked difference in the occurrence of cataracts between the two diabetic groups. ARI treated rats tended to have lower blood glucose than the diabetic reference group, but the difference was not significant. At the termination of the experiment, the left kidney was perfusion fixed, weighed, and prepared for light and electron microscopy. Systematic random sampling from the entire kidney was performed to obtain light microscopic visual fields and ultrathin sections from two glomeruli. Mean glomerular volume was estimated by light microscopy, and glomerular basement membrane thickness, by electron microscopy. Basement membrane thickness was significantly increased in untreated diabetic rats (174 nm, SD = 4.5 nm) as compared to that of controls (Mean: 154 nm, SD = 11.0 nm), and was even more so in ARI treated rats (187 nm, SD = 18.7 nm), although the ARI treated rats showed less renal and glomerular hypertrophy than did untreated diabetic rats. In conclusion, the ARI treatment over an experimental period of 6 months attenuated diabetic renal and glomerular hypertrophy, but had no effect at all on diabetic glomerular basement membrane thickening.
Na+-K+-ATPase pumping activity is not directly linked to myo-inositol levels after sorbinil treatment in lenses of diabetic rats.	Changes in tissue levels of sorbitol, myo-inositol, and Na+-K+-ATPase enzyme activity have been implicated in the development of diabetic complications in animal models of the disease and in humans. The ability of the aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil to reverse the hyperglycemia-induced changes in these lenticular metabolite and enzyme-activity levels in the streptozocin-induced diabetic rat was examined to determine what, if any, relationship exists between these changes. Two weeks of untreated diabetes did not change ouabain-inhibitable ATPase enzyme activity assayed in lens homogenates but did result in a decrease in the Na+-K+-ATPase transport activity as measured by 86Rb uptake in the intact lens. This was accompanied by a 100-fold increase in the levels of sorbitol and significant decreases in the levels of myo-inositol, ATP, and glutathione in the lens. Whereas all of these changes could be reversed by sorbinil treatment, the dose required for restoration of the depleted myo-inositol level (ED50 greater than 20 mg.kg-1.day-1) was much higher than the dose required to reverse the other changes (ED50 range 2-5 mg.kg-1.day-1). These results suggest that the restoration of lenticular Na+ -K+ -ATPase activity is not secondary to a normalization of myo-inositol levels and may provide evidence that the two parameters are not strictly associated in diabetic tissues.
Increased steady-state levels of laminin B1 mRNA in kidneys of long-term streptozotocin-diabetic rats. No effect of an aldose reductase inhibitor.	The steady-state levels of mRNAs coding for two components of basement membranes, the alpha 1 chain of type IV collagen and the B1 chain of laminin, were measured in the kidneys of male CDF rats following the induction of diabetes with streptozotocin for periods of between 2 days and 28 weeks. The concentration of mRNA for the alpha 1 chain of type IV collagen/microgram of RNA decreased markedly with age in control and diabetic rats. The diabetic level was significantly lower than control after 2 and 11 weeks of diabetes. After 28 weeks, however, there was no significant difference from the levels in control animals. Treatment of control and diabetic rats with the aldose reductase inhibitor Statil (350 mg/kg diet) did not affect the levels of the mRNA for the alpha 1 chain of type IV collagen. In contrast to the continuous decline in the concentration of mRNA for the alpha 1 chain of type IV collagen, the level of mRNA for the B1 chain of laminin increased two-fold between 11 and 28 weeks after induction of diabetes. This increase occurred as aging of control rats reduced the level of laminin B1 mRNA by approximately 50%. Treatment with Statil had no effect on laminin B1 mRNA levels. In control rats there was no change in the ratio of the levels of mRNAs for laminin B1: alpha 1 (IV) collagen with age. The mean ratio was 0.97 +/- 0.10 at 19 weeks and 1.0 +/- 0.10 at 36 weeks of age. In diabetic rats there was a marked increase in the ratio from 0.85 +/- 0.11 at 19 weeks to 3.2 +/- 1.2 at 36 weeks of age. The increased abundance of mRNA for laminin B1 raises the possibility that increased synthesis of laminin contributes to the thickening and abnormal function of renal basement membranes in streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
Prevention of urinary albumin excretion in 6 month streptozocin-diabetic rats with the aldose reductase inhibitor tolrestat.	Recent clinical data strongly suggest that elevated urinary albumin excretion (UAE) identifies diabetic subjects at risk of developing nephropathy. Elevated UAE is attributed to increased transglomerular pressure, which is associated with poor metabolic control in rats. Because excess glucose in diabetes is metabolized via the polyol pathway, we were interested in whether the diabetes-induced elevation in UAE in rats could be prevented by inhibiting aldose reductase (AR), the first enzyme in the polyol pathway, with the AR inhibitor tolrestat. In fact, in rats made diabetic with streptozocin (35 mg/kg IV), treatment for 6 months with tolrestat (25 mg/kg/day in the diet) prevented both sorbitol accumulation in the kidney and the increase in UAE. Sorbitol accumulation and the increased UAE were not associated with statistically significant mesangial expansion, and the thickening of glomerular basement membranes was not affected by tolrestat treatment. The authors conclude that the 4.7-fold elevation in UAE in chronically diabetic rats is linked to the increased flux of glucose through the polyol pathway since it was prevented by inhibiting aldose reductase with tolrestat.
Ultrastructural observations on myelinated fibres in experimental diabetes: effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor ponalrestat given alone or in conjunction with insulin therapy.	Six groups of rats were studied over a 12-week period: onset and end controls, untreated diabetics, ponalrestat-treated diabetics, insulin-treated diabetics, and diabetics treated with ponalrestat and insulin. The concentrations of glucose, sorbitol and fructose significantly increased and that of myo-inositol significantly decreased in the sciatic nerve of untreated diabetic animals. Ponalrestat administration completely normalized sorbitol levels and partially corrected fructose and myo-inositol concentrations without altering nerve glucose levels. The biochemical abnormalities were also corrected in both the insulin-treated and insulin and ponalrestat-treated diabetic animals. Myelinated fibre cross-sectional areas and axonal areas were significantly less in the tibial nerve of diabetic animals as compared with age-matched controls. Insulin treatment partially corrected the reduction in fibre and axonal area but teased fibre preparations showed an excess of axonal degeneration as compared with controls, untreated diabetics and ponalrestat-treated diabetics. Ponalrestat given alone or in conjunction with insulin therapy did not correct the reduction in fibre or axonal area and single isolated fibres from diabetic animals treated with ponalrestat and insulin showed a marked excess of axonal degeneration, probably related to hypoglycaemia. The study fails to reveal any significant beneficial effect of aldose reductase inhibition on the structural abnormalities in peripheral nerve in experimental diabetes.
Decreased myo-inositol content and Na+-K+-ATPase activity in superior cervical ganglion of STZ-diabetic rat and prevention by aldose reductase inhibition.	Decreased sciatic nerve myo-inositol content and Na+-K+-ATPase activity have been associated with slowing of motor nerve conduction in the acutely diabetic rat and have been invoked as possible pathogenic factors in diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Aldose reductase inhibitors prevent these abnormalities in peripheral nerves of the streptozocin (STZ)-diabetic rat. Whether an analogous biochemical abnormality occurs in the autonomic nervous system and plays a role in the development of diabetic autonomic dysfunction is unknown. Therefore we examined the effect of 8 wk of untreated STZ diabetes and administration of 20 mg X kg-1 X day-1 of the aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil on myo-inositol level and Na+-K+-ATPase activity in rat superior cervical ganglia. Both myo-inositol concentration and Na+-K+-ATPase activity were reduced in ganglia from untreated STZ-diabetic rats, and sorbinil administration prevented these abnormalities. Thus, a sorbinil-responsive metabolic defect involving myotional abnormalities in the somatic and autonomic nervous systems in diabetes.
Effect of aldose reductase inhibitor (sorbinil) on integration of polyol pathway, pentose phosphate pathway, and glycolytic route in diabetic rat lens.	This study examines the effect of an aldose reductase inhibitor (sorbinil) on the flux of specifically labeled glucose through alternative pathways of metabolism in the lens of normal and diabetic rats 1 wk after the induction of diabetes with alloxan. In the diabetic rat lens, there was an apparent increase in the flux of glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), as measured by the difference in the yields of 14CO2 from [1-14C]glucose and [6-14C]glucose [C1-C6], this value was 0.087 +/- 0.005 and 0.263 +/- 0.034 mumol X g lens-1 X h (mean + SE of 6 values) for control and diabetic rats, respectively; sorbinil treatment decreased the values to 0.065 +/- 0.008 and 0.171 +/- 0.028, respectively. With glucose tritiated on carbon 2 or 3, it has been shown that the flux of glucose through the polyol route is increased, whereas the flux through the glycolytic pathway is decreased in the diabetic rat lens; both are restored toward normal in the sorbinil-treated diabetic group. These results suggest that the dual effects of diabetes in increasing the lens content of glucose and glucose 6-phosphate and the flux of glucose in the polyol pathway will result in an increased utilization of NADPH and production of NADH, factors favoring the flow of glucose through the PPP and restricting the glycolytic route in the diabetic rat lens. The inhibition of aldose reductase by sorbinil tends to normalize the redox state of the nicotinamide nucleotides, reimposing the NADPH limitation on the PPP and increasing the availability of NAD+ for the glycolytic route.
Synthesis and aldose reductase inhibitory activity of substituted 2-oxoquinoline-1-acetic acid derivatives.	A number of 2-oxoquinoline-1-alkanoic acids that contain the N-acylglycine fragment found in several known inhibitors of aldose reductase were synthesized and tested in the rat lens assay. All of the target compounds were prepared by alkylation of the appropriate 2-oxoquinoline intermediates with a halo ester, followed by hydrolysis of the intermediate esters. In the rat lens assay, the 1-acetic acid derivatives 9a-e display the highest level of aldose reductase inhibitor activity with IC50 values of 0.45-6.0 microM. Modification of the 1-acetic acid moiety by esterification, substitution of an alpha-methyl group, or insertion of an additional methylene unit results in reduced inhibitory potency. Structure-activity data also suggests that both the benzene and 2-oxopyridine rings of 9a-e contribute substantially toward activity and that inhibitory potency is influenced by aromatic ring substituents.
Sorbinil pharmacokinetics in male and female elderly volunteers.	Sorbinil pharmacokinetics were studied, following a single oral dose, in eight male and eight female healthy, elderly volunteers. Elimination half-life tended to be longer in males than in females. There was no sex difference in AUC or renal clearance. The long elimination half-life of sorbinil in the elderly suggests that accumulation is likely to occur with chronic dosing.
Inhibition of aldose reductase from human retina.	Aldose reductase was prepared from a pool of 21 male and 16 female human retinas by ammonium sulphate fractionation (40-75% saturation) and chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel and Matrex-OA. The overall purification was 132-fold with 50% recovery of enzyme activity. The concentrations of the aldose reductase inhibitors Sorbinil, Statil and M79175 required to give 50% inhibition (IC50 value) of enzyme activity with the model substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4NB) were 3.4 microM, 2.3 microM and 0.22 microM respectively. This indicated that M79175 was the most effective inhibitor tested of aldose reductase with 4NB in vitro. These inhibitors were more effective when tested against aldose reductase activity with glucose, the substrate which might play a role in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. Sorbinil gave an IC50 (glucose) of 0.40 microM; M79175 and Statil were more effective. At an inhibitor concentration of 0.1 microM the %-inhibitions observed were: Sorbinil 20% M79175 55%, Statil 76%. Thus Statil was the most potent compound tested against human retinal enzyme using the more physiological substrate in vitro. This report provides the first direct evidence that human retinal aldose reductase is susceptible to inhibition by compounds designed for chemotherapy of diabetic complications, and indicates that the concentrations of inhibitor required for a substantial block of activity in vitro are lower than those attained in plasma in man.
Increased vascular permeability in spontaneously diabetic BB/W rats and in rats with mild versus severe streptozocin-induced diabetes. Prevention by aldose reductase inhibitors and castration.	125I-labeled albumin permeation (IAP) has been assessed in various tissues in spontaneously diabetic insulin-dependent female BB/W rats and in male Sprague-Dawley rats with severe or mild forms of streptozocin-induced diabetes (SS-D and MS-D, respectively). In BB/W diabetic rats and in rats with SS-D, indices of IAP were significantly increased in tissues and vessels predisposed to diabetic vascular disease in humans, including the eyes (anterior uvea, posterior uvea, and retina), sciatic nerve, aorta, kidney, and new vessels formed after induction of diabetes. No evidence of increased IAP was observed in heart, brain, testes, or skeletal muscle in BB/W or SS-D rats. In MS-D rats, indices of IAP were increased only in the kidney and in new vessels formed after the onset of diabetes. Marked tissue differences were observed in the effects of two structurally different aldose reductase inhibitors (sorbinil and tolrestat) and of castration on diabetes-induced increases in IAP and in tissue levels of polyols in SS-D rats. Both aldose reductase inhibitors and castration completely prevented diabetes-induced increases in IAP in new vessels and in sciatic nerve in BB/W and SS-D rats. Both aldose reductase inhibitors also markedly decreased IAP in the anterior uvea (approximately 85%), posterior uvea (approximately 65-75%), retina (approximately 65-70%), and kidney (approximately 70-100%); castration reduced IAP in the anterior uvea (approximately 55%), kidney (approximately 50%), and retina (approximately 30%) but had no effect on the posterior uvea. The diabetes-induced increases in IAP in the aorta were reduced only slightly (approximately 20%) by aldose reductase inhibitors and castration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Noninvasive evaluation of effects of an aldose reductase inhibitor in rat brain by 19F FDG NMR spectroscopy.	The inhibitory effects of an aldose reductase inhibitor, sorbinil (Pfizer, NY), on cerebral glucose metabolism were investigated noninvasively in rat brain using 19F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-FDG). Sorbinil given orally in the daily recommended doses (25 mg/kg) for man for the treatment of diabetic complications inhibited 2-FDG flux into the aldose reductase sorbitol (ARS) pathway, demonstrated as a reduction in the intensity of the ARS index resonance as well as an increase in the resonance area ratio between the pentose monophosphate shunt (PMS) and ARS index resonances (PMS/ARS ratio). Spatial metabolite mapping using rotating frame one-dimensional zeugmatography indicated that the inhibitory effect is spatially nonspecific. The present study is the first direct noninvasive observation of the effects of a pharmacological agent on cerebral enzymatic activities.
Submicroscopic restructurings in the glomerular portion of the rat nephron in streptozotocin diabetes and their possible drug correction]	Experiments on Wistar male rats have shown that in 2 weeks the administration of streptozotocin results in an increase in relative kidney mass by 23%, the development of submicroscopic rearrangements indicating the hypertrophy of the main glomerular components and the acceleration of ultrafiltration. In one month a sharp widening of the lumens of capillaries and intersubosseous spaces, inflammatory symptoms, and signs of primary urine congestion are noted in parallel with hypertrophic changes. The relative kidney mass increases by 73.5% (p less than 0.01). The use of the aldose reductase blocker isodibut prevents, to a great extent, the development of ultrastructural changes in a glomerulus detected one month after administration of streptozotocin, improves ultrafiltration and inhibits a sharp increase in kidney mass, i. e. it prevents disorder of renal excretory function at the initial stages of experimental diabetes.
Permeability changes in blood-retinal barrier of galactosemic rats are prevented by aldose reductase inhibitors.	Permeability-surface-area products (PA) for sucrose at the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) were determined with quantitative in vivo techniques and compared in control rats, rats fed a 50% galactosemic diet, and rats fed a diet containing both galactose and the aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil. The mean PA +/- SE for controls was 0.656 x 10(-5) +/- 0.13 ml.g-1.s-1 and increased by approximately 500% in galactose-fed animals to 3.13 x 10(-5) +/- 0.32 ml.g-1.s-1. Animals fed both galactose and sorbinil showed no significant difference from control animals (P greater than .05), with a PA of 0.91 x 10(-5) +/- 0.22 ml.g-1.s-1. No breach in the BRB to horseradish peroxidase was detected in any of the groups. These results demonstrate an increased permeability at the BRB to small molecules in galactosemic rats that is prevented by an aldose reductase inhibitor. This suggests that the retinal capillary basement membrane thickening seen in galactosemic rats is associated with an increased permeability of the BRB and that aldose reductase is implicated in its pathogenesis.
Evaluation of orally administered activated charcoal on intestinal dialysis of intravenously administered M79175, an aldose reductase inhibitor, in rats.	The effect of oral administration of activated charcoal on serum elimination of 14C-M79175 injected intravenously in rats was studied. In situ single-pass perfusion studies showed that M79175 and/or its metabolites was transported into the small intestinal lumen. Total radioactivity expressed as equivalents of M79175 exsorbed in the perfusate and excreted in the bile juice was 3.2% and 2.0%, respectively, of dose. Oral administration of multiple doses of activated charcoal significantly decreased the serum concentration and serum half-life of 14C-M79175. The fecal excretion of 14C-M79175 after treatment with activated charcoal was increased when compared to that in the control. On the other hand, urinary excretion of 14C-M79175 after treatment with activated charcoal was decreased. However, there was no significant difference in the cumulative amounts of total excretion (fecal plus urinary excretion) between rats with activated charcoal treatment and rats without charcoal treatment. These results suggest that intestinal dialysis by oral activated charcoal is a reasonable method to enhance the elimination of M79175 from the serum in case of overdose of the drug.
Effects of aldose reductase inhibitor (M79175) on ERG oscillatory potential abnormalities in streptozotocin fructose-induced diabetes in rats.	The effects of an aldose reductase inhibitor (M79175) on electroretinogram (ERG) oscillatory potential abnormalities was studied in rats with streptozotocin fructose-induced diabetes. The ERG oscillatory potential was recorded under scotopic conditions without general anesthesia in the diabetic rats, before and 4, 8 and 12 weeks after administration of M79175. The ERG tracings were analyzed for peak latencies, peak intervals and amplitudes; the peak latencies and intervals were prolonged and the amplitudes were reduced in untreated diabetic rats, but the prolongation of the peak latencies and intervals were suppressed in diabetic rats receiving M79175. The amplitudes were reduced in the treated rats as in the untreated rats. The results of this investigation suggest that M79175 is effective to suppress progression of diabetic retinopathy in its early stage.
Inactivation of carbonyl reductase from human brain by phenylglyoxal and 2,3-butanedione: a comparison with aldehyde reductase and aldose reductase.	Aldehyde reductase (alcohol:NADP+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.2), aldose reductase (alditol:NAD(P)+ 1-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.21) and carbonyl reductase (secondary-alcohol:NADP+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.184) constitute the enzyme family of the aldo-keto reductases, a classification based on similar physicochemical properties and substrate specificities. The present study was undertaken in order to obtain information about the structural relationships between the three enzymes. Treatment of human aldehyde and carbonyl reductase with phenylglyoxal and 2,3-butanedione caused a complete and irreversible loss of enzyme activity, the rate of loss being proportional to the concentration of the dicarbonyl reagents. The inactivation of aldehyde reductase followed pseudo-first-order kinetics, whereas carbonyl reductase showed a more complex behavior, consistent with protein modification cooperativity. NADP+ partially prevented the loss of activity of both enzymes, and an even better protection of aldehyde reductase was afforded by the combination of coenzyme and substrate. Aldose reductase was partially inactivated by phenylglyoxal, but insensitive to 2,3-butanedione. The degree of inactivation with respect to the phenylglyoxal concentration showed saturation behavior. NADP+ partially protected the enzyme at low phenylglyoxal concentrations (0.5 mM), but showed no effect at high concentrations (5 mM). These findings suggest the presence of an essential arginine residue in the substrate-binding domain of aldehyde reductase and the coenzyme-binding site of carbonyl reductase. The effect of phenylglyoxal on aldose reductase may be explained by the modification of a reactive thiol or lysine rather than an arginine residue.
Studies on WF-3681, a novel aldose reductase inhibitor. I. Taxonomy, fermentation, isolation and characterization.	WF-3681 was isolated from a cultured filtrate of Chaetomella raphigera as a novel inhibitor of aldose reductase. It was extracted with ethyl acetate and then purified with silica gel chromatography. Its molecular formula was determined to be C13H12O5 by elemental analysis and high resolution electron impact mass spectrometry. IC50 of WF-3681 was 2.5 X 10(-7) M for partially purified aldose reductase of rabbit lens.
Studies on WF-3681, a novel aldose reductase inhibitor. II. Structure determination and synthesis.	The structure of WF-3681, a novel aldose reductase inhibitor produced by Chaetomella raphigera Swift No. 3681, was deduced to be 1 on the basis of its spectroscopic and chemical evidences and confirmed by a total synthesis starting from (E)-5-phenyl-4-pentenol.
Effect of aldose reductase inhibition on nerve conduction velocity and resistance to ischemic conduction block in experimental diabetes.	The relationships between nerve polyol levels and both nerve conduction velocity (NCV) and resistance to ischemic conduction block (RICB) in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats were examined in two studies. In the first study, sciatic NCV and RICB of the tail nerve, assessed by measuring the time to disappearance of the nerve action potential after the tail was rendered ischemic, were measured in nondiabetic rats, untreated diabetic rats, and diabetic rats given Statil, an aldose reductase inhibitor (ARI). Sciatic NCV was lower in the untreated diabetic animals than in control animals (P less than .05), and RICB of the tail nerve was greater (P less than .001). Treatment with the ARI completely prevented the slowing of NCV but had no significant effect on the increase in RICB. In the second study, similar groups of rats were treated with either ARI, insulin, or myo-inositol. Sciatic NCV was lower in the untreated diabetic rats than in the nondiabetic rats (P less than .001). In diabetic rats treated with the ARI and in those treated with insulin, NCV was greater than in the untreated diabetic rats (P less than .05 and P less than .001, respectively) and was not significantly different from the nondiabetic rats. NCV in the myo-inositol-treated rats was not significantly different from that in the untreated diabetic rats. RICB was assessed by measuring the decline in sciatic nerve action potential amplitude at minute intervals after death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Synthesis and pharmacologic study of several spirohydantoins: relation to conformation]	Using two routes starting from cyclanones, it has been possible to prepare two series of spirohydantoins substituted or not on the hydantoin nucleus nitrogen. These compounds exhibited low toxicity on pig lens aldose reductase (except for two compounds). A discussion is given on the steric and geometric requirements for effective enzyme inhibiting activity.
Structure-activity studies of aldose reductase inhibitors containing the 4-oxo-4h-chromen ring system.	Various 4-oxo-4H-chromen-2-carboxylic acids and their derivatives were screened for aldose reductase inhibitory activity. Their inhibitory response along with that of several flavonoids has been correlated with simple Hückel molecular orbital calculations. From these results a possible mode of action is postulated.
The effects of long-term treatment of streptozotocin-diabetic rats with an aldose reductase inhibitor.	To test the possible involvement of the sorbitol pathway in the pathogenesis of retinopathy in long-term experimentally-diabetic rats, streptozotocin-diabetic and normal rats were dosed orally (50 mg/kg body weight daily) for up to 373 days with an aldose reductase inhibitor (ICI 105552) or a placebo. Long-term treatment with ICI 105552 (1,(3,4-dichlorobenzyl)-3-methyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxoquinol-4-ylaceti c acid; sodium salt) markedly reduced the normal accumulations of sorbitol and fructose in the sciatic nerves (86 and 69% reductions) and seminal vesicles with coagulating glands (75 and 49% reductions). Thus, by these criteria, the inhibitor was as effective after several months of dosing as after three weeks. There was no evidence that treatment with this aldose reductase inhibitor had any protective effect against the development of pathological changes in the retina and kidney of these rats.
