Cloning and expression of a fungal L-arabinitol 4-dehydrogenase gene.	L-Arabinitol 4-dehydrogenase (EC ) was purified from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina). It is an enzyme in the L-arabinose catabolic pathway of fungi catalyzing the reaction from L-arabinitol to L-xylulose. The amino acid sequence of peptide fragments was determined and used to identify the corresponding gene. We named the gene lad1. It is not constitutively expressed. In a Northern analysis we found it only after growth on L-arabinose. The gene was cloned and overexpressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the enzyme activity was confirmed in a cell extract. The enzyme consists of 377 amino acids and has a calculated molecular mass of 39,822 Da. It belongs to the family of zinc-binding dehydrogenases and has some amino acid sequence similarity to sorbitol dehydrogenases. It shows activity toward L-arabinitol, adonitol (ribitol), and xylitol with K(m) values of about 40 mM toward L-arabinitol and adonitol and about 180 mM toward xylitol. No activity was observed with D-sorbitol, D-arabinitol, and D-mannitol. NAD is the required cofactor with a K(m) of 180 microM. No activity was observed with NADP.
A novel NADH-linked l-xylulose reductase in the l-arabinose catabolic pathway of yeast.	An NADH-dependent l-xylulose reductase and the corresponding gene were identified from the yeast Ambrosiozyma monospora. The enzyme is part of the yeast pathway for l-arabinose catabolism. A fungal pathway for l-arabinose utilization has been described previously for molds. In this pathway l-arabinose is sequentially converted to l-arabinitol, l-xylulose, xylitol, and d-xylulose and enters the pentose phosphate pathway as d-xylulose 5-phosphate. In molds the reductions are NADPH-linked, and the oxidations are NAD(+)-linked. Here we show that in A. monospora the pathway is similar, i.e. it has the same two reduction and two oxidation reactions, but the reduction by l-xylulose reductase is not performed by a strictly NADPH-dependent enzyme as in molds but by a strictly NADH-dependent enzyme. The ALX1 gene encoding the NADH-dependent l-xylulose reductase is strongly expressed during growth on l-arabinose as shown by Northern analysis. The gene was functionally overexpressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the purified His-tagged protein characterized. The reversible enzyme converts l-xylulose to xylitol. It also converts d-ribulose to d-arabinitol but has no activity with l-arabinitol or adonitol, i.e. it is specific for sugar alcohols where, in a Fischer projection, the hydroxyl group of the C-2 is in the l-configuration and the hydroxyl group of C-3 is in the d-configuration. It also has no activity with C-6 sugars or sugar alcohols. The K(m) values for l-xylulose and d-ribulose are 9.6 and 4.7 mm, respectively. To our knowledge this is the first report of an NADH-linked l-xylulose reductase.
Synthesis of arabinitol 1-phosphate and its use for characterization of arabinitol-phosphate dehydrogenase.	D-arabinitol 1-phosphate (Ara-ol1-P), a substrate for D-arabinitol-phosphate dehydrogenase (APDH), was chemically synthesized from D-arabinonic acid in five steps (O-acetylation, chlorination, reduction, phosphorylation, and de-O-acetylation). Ara-ol1-P was used as a substrate for the characterization of APDH from Bacillus halodurans. APDH converts Ara-ol1-P to xylulose 5-phosphate in the oxidative reaction; both NAD(+) and NADP(+) were accepted as co-factors. Kinetic parameters for the oxidative and reductive reactions are consistent with a ternary complex mechanism.
The dTDP-4-dehydro-6-deoxyglucose reductase encoding fcd gene is part of the surface layer glycoprotein glycosylation gene cluster of Geobacillus tepidamans GS5-97T.	The glycan chain of the S-layer protein of Geobacillus tepidamans GS5-97(T) consists of disaccharide repeating units composed of L-rhamnose and D-fucose, the latter being a rare constituent of prokaryotic glycoconjugates. Although biosynthesis of nucleotide-activated L-rhamnose is well established, D-fucose biosynthesis is less investigated. The conversion of alpha-D-glucose-1-phosphate into thymidine diphosphate (dTDP)-4-dehydro-6-deoxyglucose by the sequential action of RmlA (glucose-1-phosphate thymidylyltransferase) and RmlB (dTDP-glucose-4,6-dehydratase) is shared between the dTDP-D-fucose and the dTDP-L-rhamnose biosynthesis pathway. This key intermediate is processed by the dTDP-4-dehydro-6-deoxyglucose reductase Fcd to form dTDP-alpha-D-fucose. We identified the fcd gene in G. tepidamans GS5-97(T) by chromosome walking and performed functional characterization of the recombinant 308-amino acid enzyme. The in vitro activity of the enzymatic cascade (RmlB and Fcd) was monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography and the reaction product was confirmed by (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. This is the first characterization of the dTDP-alpha-D-fucopyranose biosynthesis pathway in a Gram-positive organism. fcd was identified as 1 of 20 open reading frames contained in a 17471-bp S-layer glycosylation (slg) gene cluster on the chromosome of G. tepidamans GS5-97(T). The sgtA structural gene is located immediately upstream of the slg gene cluster with an intergenic region of 247 nucleotides. By comparison of the SgtA amino acid sequence with the known glycosylation pattern of the S-layer protein SgsE of Geobacillus stearothermophilus NRS 2004/3a, two out of the proposed three glycosylation sites on SgtA could be identified by electrospray ionization quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry to be at positions Ser-792 and Thr-583.
The identification of a structurally important cysteine residue in the glycerol dehydrogenase from Bacillus stearothermophilus.	Evidence is presented to demonstrate that the Zn2+ metallo-enzyme glycerol dehydrogenase from the thermophile Bacillus stearothermophilus has one cysteine residue per subunit which is only available for reaction with thiol reagents in the metal-depleted form of the enzyme. Modification of the metal-depleted enzyme by methyl methanethiosulphonate prevents the reactivation of the enzyme by Zn2+ ions and induces dissociation of the oligomer into subunits. The rate of reaction of the cysteine residue with the thiol reagent DTNB is limited by a factor other than reagent concentration and it is proposed that the reagent only reacts with the cysteine residue in dissociated monomers. The enzyme has been labelled at the single cysteine residue by radioactive iodo[2-3H]acetic acid. Two radiolabelled peptides have been isolated and sequenced; one peptide is a component of the other. Spectroscopic evidence suggests that the cysteine residue is not involved in ligation of the essential metal ion. Chemical modification studies using the reagent diethylpyrocarbonate have suggested that two histidines are involved in the ligation of the metal.
Properties of recombinant Strep-tagged and untagged hyperthermophilic D-arabitol dehydrogenase from Thermotoga maritima.	The first hyperthermophilic D-arabitol dehydrogenase from Thermotoga maritima was heterologously purified from Escherichia coli. The protein was purified with and without a Strep-tag. The enzyme exclusively catalyzed the NAD(H)-dependent oxidoreduction of D-arabitol, D-xylitol, D-ribulose, or D-xylulose. A twofold increase of catalytic rates was observed upon addition of Mg(2+) or K(+). Interestingly, only the tag-less protein was thermostable, retaining 90% of its activity after 90 min at 85 °C. However, the tag-less form of D-arabitol dehydrogenase had similar kinetic parameters compared to the tagged enzyme, demonstrating that the Strep-tag was not deleterious to protein function but decreased protein stability. A single band at 27.6 kDa was observed on SDS-PAGE and native PAGE revealed that the protein formed a homohexamer and a homododecamer. The enzyme catalyzed oxidation of D-arabitol to D: -ribulose and therefore belongs to the class of D-arabitol 2-dehydrogenases, which are typically observed in yeast and not bacteria. The product D-ribulose is a rare ketopentose sugar that has numerous industrially applications. Given its thermostability and specificity, D-arabitol 2-dehydrogenase is a desirable biocatalyst for the production of rare sugar precursors.
Expression of glycerol dehydrogenase gene in Escherichia coli by codon optimization]	To improve expression level of glycerol dehydrogenase gene gldA in Escherichia coli by means of codon optimization.
Structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae D-arabinose dehydrogenase Ara1 and its complex with NADPH: implications for cofactor-assisted substrate recognition.	The primary role of yeast Ara1, previously mis-annotated as a D-arabinose dehydrogenase, is to catalyze the reduction of a variety of toxic α,β-dicarbonyl compounds using NADPH as a cofactor at physiological pH levels. Here, crystal structures of Ara1 in apo and NADPH-complexed forms are presented at 2.10 and 2.00 Å resolution, respectively. Ara1 exists as a homodimer, each subunit of which adopts an (α/β)8-barrel structure and has a highly conserved cofactor-binding pocket. Structural comparison revealed that induced fit upon NADPH binding yielded an intact active-site pocket that recognizes the substrate. Moreover, the crystal structures combined with computational simulation defined an open substrate-binding site to accommodate various substrates that possess a dicarbonyl group. 
Structure of glycerol dehydrogenase from Serratia.	The 1.90 Å resolution X-ray crystal structure of glycerol dehydrogenase derived from contaminating bacteria present during routine Escherichia coli protein expression is presented. This off-target enzyme showed intrinsic affinity for Ni(2+)-Sepharose, migrated at the expected molecular mass for the target protein during gel filtration and was crystallized before it was realised that contamination had occurred. In this study, it is shown that liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) can efficiently identify the protein composition of crystals in a crystallization experiment as part of a structure-determination pipeline for an unknown protein. The high-resolution X-ray data enabled sequencing directly from the electron-density maps, allowing the source of contamination to be placed within the Serratia genus. Incorporating additional protein-identity checks, such as tandem LC-MS/MS, earlier in the protein expression, purification and crystallization workflow may have prevented the unintentional structure determination of this metabolic enzyme, which represents the first enterobacterial glycerol dehydrogenase reported to date.
Preliminary crystallographic investigations of recombinant GDP-4-keto-6-deoxy-D-mannose epimerase/reductase from E. coli.	The GDP-4-keto-6-deoxy-D-mannose epimerase/reductase (GM_ER) isolated from E. coli has been overexpressed as a GST-fusion protein and purified to homogeneity. The enzyme, an NADP+(H)-binding homodimer of 70 kDa, is responsible for the production of GDP-L-fucose. GM_ER shows significant structural homology to the human erythrocyte protein FX, which is involved in blood-group glycoconjugate biosynthesis, displaying 3,5 epimerase/reductase activity on GDP-4-keto-6-deoxy-D-mannose. GM_ER has been crystallized in a trigonal crystalline form, containing one molecule per asymmetric unit, suitable for high-resolution crystallographic investigations.
