Functional roles of KATP channel subunits in metabolic inhibition.	ATP-sensitive potassium channel (KATP) activation can drastically shorten action potential duration (APD) in metabolically compromised myocytes. We showed previously that SUR1 with Kir6.2 forms the functional channel in mouse atria while Kir6.2 and SUR2A predominate in ventricles. SUR1 is more sensitive to metabolic stress than SUR2A, raising the possibility that KATP in atria and ventricles may respond differently to metabolic stress. Action potential duration (APD) and calcium transient duration (CaTD) were measured simultaneously in both atria and ventricles by optical mapping of the posterior surface of Langendorff-perfused hearts from C57BL wild-type (WT; n=11), Kir6.2(-/-) (n=5), and SUR1(-/-) (n=6) mice during metabolic inhibition (MI, 0mM glucose+2mM sodium cyanide). After variable delay, MI led to significant shortening of APD in WT hearts. On average, atrial APD shortened by 60.5 ± 2.7% at 13.1 ± 2.1 min (n=6, p<0.01) after onset of MI. Ventricular APD shortening (56.4 ± 10.0% shortening at 18.2 ± 1.8 min) followed atrial APD shortening. In SUR1(-/-) hearts (n=6), atrial APD shortening was abolished, but ventricular shortening (65.0 ± 15.4% at 25.33 ± 4.48 min, p<0.01) was unaffected. In Kir6.2(-/-) hearts, two disparate responses to MI were observed; 3 of 5 hearts displayed slight shortening of APD in the ventricles (24 ± 3%, p<0.05) and atria (39.0 ± 1.9%, p<0.05) but this shortening occurred later and to much less extent than in WT (p<0.05). Marked prolongation of ventricular APD was observed in the remaining hearts (327% and 489% prolongation) and was associated with occurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The results confirm that Kir6.2 contributes to APD shortening in both atria and ventricle during metabolic stress, and that SUR1 is required for atrial APD shortening while SUR2A is required for ventricular APD shortening. Importantly, the results show that the presence of SUR1-dependent KATP in the atria results in the action potential being more susceptible to metabolically driven shortening than the ventricle.
ABCC8, KCNJ11 and GLUD1 gene mutation analysis in congenital hyperinsulinism pedigree]	To explore the ABCC8, KCNJ11, and GLUD1 gene mutations of the 11 patients diagnosed as congenital hyperinsulinism (CHI).
A mouse model of human hyperinsulinism produced by the E1506K mutation in the sulphonylurea receptor SUR1.	Loss-of-function mutations in the KATP channel genes KCNJ11 and ABCC8 cause neonatal hyperinsulinism in humans. Dominantly inherited mutations cause less severe disease, which may progress to glucose intolerance and diabetes in later life (e.g., SUR1-E1506K). We generated a mouse expressing SUR1-E1506K in place of SUR1. KATP channel inhibition by MgATP was enhanced in both homozygous (homE1506K) and heterozygous (hetE1506K) mutant mice, due to impaired channel activation by MgADP. As a consequence, mutant β-cells showed less on-cell KATP channel activity and fired action potentials in glucose-free solution. HomE1506K mice exhibited enhanced insulin secretion and lower fasting blood glucose within 8 weeks of birth, but reduced insulin secretion and impaired glucose tolerance at 6 months of age. These changes correlated with a lower insulin content; unlike wild-type or hetE1506K mice, insulin content did not increase with age in homE1506K mice. There was no difference in the number and size of islets or β-cells in the three types of mice, or evidence of β-cell proliferation. We conclude that the gradual development of glucose intolerance in patients with the SUR1-E1506K mutation might, as in the mouse model, result from impaired insulin secretion due a failure of insulin content to increase with age. 
Octreotide-induced long QT syndrome in a child with congenital hyperinsulinemia and a novel missense mutation (p.Met115Val) in the ABCC8 gene.	Congenital hyperinsulinism (CHI) denotes an inappropriate secretion of insulin from pancreatic β-cells in the presence of a low blood glucose level due to various genetic causes. Diazoxide is the first-line medical treatment for CHI. In case of failure, a somatostatin analogue called octreotide is used. A prolonged QT interval is an unusual side effect of octreotide which can be lethal if unrecognized.
Novel mutation c.597_598dup in exon 5 of ABCC8 gene causing congenital hyperinsulinism.	Congenital hyperinsulinism (CHI), a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disease, characterized by the unregulated secretion of insulin from pancreatic β-cells, is the most common cause of persistent hypoglycemia in infancy. Early diagnosis and maintenance of normoglycaemia are essential to prevent adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. The most common and severe forms of CHI are caused by inactivating mutations in ABCC8 and KCNJ11 genes, encoding the two subunits of the pancreatic β-cell ATP sensitive potassium channel (KATP). We report a case of neonatal CHI due to a novel homozygous recessive mutation in the ABCC8 gene. 
