Effects of insulin-like growth factors I and II on oestrone sulphatase activity in human breast cancer cell lines.	Oestrogens play an important role in the development of breast cancer. A very important source of active oestrogens in the breast is oestrone sulphate which is converted to oestrone by oestrone sulphatase. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of IGF-I and IGF-II on oestrone sulphatase activity in, as well as cell growth of, MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cell lines. Cells were grown in supplemented DMEM and treated with varying concentrations of IGFs. At the end of the treatment period, intact cell monolayers were washed and assayed for oestrone sulphatase activity and the number of cell nuclei determined on a Coulter Counter. Oestrone sulphatase activity was significantly stimulated by IGF-I and II at concentrations of 100 ng/ml and 200 ng/ml in MCF-7 cells. IGF-I had no effect on oestrone sulphatase activity in MDA-MB-231 cells over the range of concentrations tested. Significant inhibition of oestrone sulphatase was observed in MDA-MB-231 cells at higher concentrations of IGF-II (50 ng/ml, 100 ng/ml and 200 ng/ml). Both IGF-I and IGF-II at higher concentrations (100 ng/ml and 200 ng/ml) significantly inhibited MCF-7 and stimulated MDA-MB-231 cell growth. Since IGF-I and II have effects on cell growth and oestrone sulphatase activity in breast cancer cell lines they may play a role in the development and progression of human breast cancer.
Effect of nomegestrol acetate on estrogen biosynthesis and transformation in MCF-7 and T47-D breast cancer cells.	Although ovaries serve as the primary source of estrogen for pre-menopausal women, after menopause estrogen biosynthesis from circulating precursors occurs in peripheral tissues by the action of several enzymes, 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (17beta-HSD1), aromatase and estrogen sulfatase. In the breast, both normal and tumoral tissues have been shown to be capable of synthesizing estrogens, and this local estrogen production can be implicated in the development of breast tumors. In these tissues, estradiol (E(2)) can be synthesized by three pathways: (1) estrone sulfatase transforms estrogen sulfates into bioactive estrogens, (2) 17beta-HSD1 converts estrone (E(1)) into E(2), (3) aromatase which converts androgens into estrogens is also present and contributes to the in situ synthesis of active estrogens but to a far lesser extent than estrone sulfatase. Quantitative assessment of E(2) formation in human breast tumors indicates that metabolism of estrone sulfate (E(1)S) via the sulfatase pathway produces 100-500 times more E(2) than androgen aromatization. Breast tissue also possesses the estrogen sulfotransferase involved in the conversion of estrogens into their sulfates that are biologically inactive. In the present review, we summarized the action of the 19-nor-progestin nomegestrol acetate (NOMAC) on the sulfatase, 17beta-HSD1 and sulfotransferase activities in the hormone-dependent MCF-7 and T47-D human breast cancer cell lines. Using physiological doses of substrates NOMAC blocks very significantly the conversion of E(1)S to E(2). It inhibits the transformation of E(1) to E(2). NOMAC has a stimulatory effect on sulfotransferase activity in both cell lines, with a strong stimulating effect at low doses but only a weak effect at high concentrations. The effects on the three enzymes are always stronger in the progesterone-receptor rich T47-D cell line as compared with the MCF-7 cell line. Besides, no effect is found for NOMAC on the transformation of androstenedione to E(1) in the aromatase-rich choriocarcinoma cell line JEG-3. In conclusion, the inhibitory effect provoked by NOMAC on the enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of E(2) (sulfatase and 17HSD pathways) in estrogen-dependent breast cancer, as well as the stimulatory effect on the formation of the inactive E(1)S, can open attractive perspectives for future clinical trials.
Effects of tibolone on sulfatase pathway of estrogens metabolism and on growth of MCF-7 human breast tumors implanted in ovariectomized nude mice.	The benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy post-menopausal women remain uncertain. Tibolone, with its in vitro documented inhibitory effects on estrogens metabolism and its selective action on breast, may be an alternative that could favorably influence the health benefit of hormone replacement therapy.
