Transport of sulfadiazine in soil columns: experiments and modelling approaches.	Antibiotics, such as sulfadiazine, reach agricultural soils directly through manure of grazing livestock or indirectly through the spreading of manure or sewage sludge on the field. Knowledge about the fate of antibiotics in soils is crucial for assessing the environmental risk of these compounds, including possible transport to the groundwater. Transport of (14)C-labelled sulfadiazine was investigated in disturbed soil columns at a constant flow rate of 0.26 cm h(-1) near saturation. Sulfadiazine was applied in different concentrations for either a short or a long pulse duration. Breakthrough curves of sulfadiazine and the non-reactive tracer chloride were measured. At the end of the leaching period the soil concentration profiles were determined. The peak maxima of the breakthrough curves were delayed by a factor of 2 to 5 compared to chloride and the decreasing limbs are characterized by an extended tailing. However, the maximum relative concentrations differed as well as the eluted mass fractions, ranging from 18 to 83% after 500 h of leaching. To identify relevant sorption processes, breakthrough curves of sulfadiazine were fitted with a convective-dispersive transport model, considering different sorption concepts with one, two and three sorption sites. Breakthrough curves can be fitted best with a three-site sorption model, which includes two reversible kinetic and one irreversible sorption site. However, the simulated soil concentration profiles did not match the observations for all of the used models. Despite this incomplete process description, the obtained results have implications for the transport behavior of sulfadiazine in the field. Its leaching may be enhanced if it is frequently applied at higher concentrations.
Composting of swine manure spiked with sulfadiazine, chlortetracycline and ciprofloxacin.	The fate of chlortetracycline (CTC), sulfadiazine (SDZ) and ciprofloxacin (CIP) during composting of swine manure and their effect on composting process were investigated. Swine manure was spiked with antibiotics, mixed with saw dust (1:1 on DW basis) and composted for 56 d. Antibiotics were spiked to a final concentration of 50 mg/kg CTC+10 mg/kg SDZ+10 mg/kg CIP (High-level) or 5 mg/kg CTC+1 mg/kg SDZ+1 mg/kg CIP (Low-level), and a control without antibiotics. Antibiotics at high concentrations delayed the initial decomposition that also affected the nitrogen mineralization. CTC and SDZ were completely removed from the composting mass within 21 and 3d, respectively; whereas, 17-31% of the spiked CIP remained in the composting mass. Therefore, composting could effectively remove the CTC and SDZ spiked even at high concentrations, but the removal of ciprofloxacin (belonging to fluoroquinolone) needs to be improved, indicating this antibiotic may get into the ecosystem through land application of livestock compost.
Photodegradation mechanism of sulfadiazine catalyzed by Fe(III), oxalate and algae under UV irradiation.	Photodegradation mechanism of sulfadiazine (SD) in a solution containing Fe(III), oxalate and algae were investigated in this study. The results indicated that the degradation of SD was slow in a solution containing Fe(III) or oxalate, whereas it was markedly enhanced when Fe(III) and oxalate coexisted. The optimal pH for formation of *OH was 4; a higher or lower pH resulted in a decrease in formation of OH. A moderate increase of oxalate concentration was beneficial to the formation of *OH and the degradation of SD, and the algae enhanced the degradation rate of SD in a solution containing Fe(III) and oxalate. Also, the degradation rate of SD rapidly decreased at low initial concentrations but slowly decreased at high initial concentrations, and pseudo-first order kinetics described the degradation process of SD well. A possible reaction mechanism in solution containing Fe(III), oxalate and algae was proposed, and attack by *OH was the main pathway of SD degradation in the photocatalytic reaction.
Thin layer chromatographic screening method for sulfadiazine residues in calf tissues, plasma, and urine.	Because of the lack of specificity of the Bratton-Marshall procedure for assaying sulfonamides, a sensitive, specific tissue residue assay for sulfadiazine (SDZ) was developed. The methodology has been extended to provide a highly sensitive screen for sulfonamide residues, which employs 2-dimensional thin layer chromatography in conjunction with fluorescamine derivatization. The procedure described, which has been developed for SDZ in calf tissues, involves direct ethyl acetate extraction of tissue homogenates. Following evaporation of the organic phase, a portion of the residue is spotted on a 20 X 20 cm silica gel 60 plate, which is then developed in 2 dimensions with solvent systems devised to separate SDZ from endogenous substances as well as from 12 other sulfonamides that might be present in calf tissues. The presence of SDZ at a concentration of 0.1 ppm or its absence is easily demonstrated in calf kidney, liver, muscle, plasma, and urine. The basic method can be modified for a particular sulfonamide in a target tissue and can be used as a quantitative assay for sulfonamide residues.
Confirmation of sulfonamide residues in kidney tissue by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	The development of a method to confirm the presence of sulfonamide residues in kidney tissues at levels at or above the maximum residue limit (MRL, 100 ng g-1 total sulfonamide) using a tandem mass spectrometer [i.e., mass spectrometry-mass spectrometry (MS-MS)] interfaced to a high-performance liquid chromatography is described. Although sulfonamides can be determined using a single quadrupole mass spectrometer with pseudo-MS-MS, advantages in interfacing to a tandem mass spectrometer are demonstrated.
