Chemotherapy and chemoprophylaxis of hepatic coccidiosis with sulphadimethoxine and pyrimethamine.	The activity of a mixture of sulphadimethoxine and pyrimethamine (10:3) as prophylactic medication and prophylactic and therapeutic medication was studied in rabbits experimentally infected with Eimeria stiedai. The haematocrit index (packed cell volume) and haemoglobin levels were studied for assessment of drug toxicity. The activity in serum of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase were studied as indicators of hepatic lesions. Parasite development was followed on the basis of the presence of oocysts; other parameters were analysed in order to monitor the performance of infected animals. All the parameters studied showed that the chemoprophylactic medication provided efficient control of the infection and of the hepatic lesions. Serum AST activity was seen to be a good indicator of the effect of the drugs on the liver.
Characterization of a Pasteurella multocida (serotype B) bovine pneumonic pasteurellosis model and the effect of antimicrobials during peracute infection.	A method to produce bovine pneumonic pasteurellosis for experimental purposes was studied and the clinical response of experimentally infected calves to selected antimicrobials was characterized. Male Holstein calves stressed with multiple hot and cold water applications followed by intratracheal inoculation of broth cultures of Pasteurella multocida serotype B developed acute clinical illness consistent with pneumonia. Infected, untreated calves consistently developed classic pneumonic pasteurellosis, infected calves treated with either oxytetracycline or sulfadimethoxine recovered from acute clinical disease, and the uninfected controls remained healthy. This disease model offers potential for use in pharmacokinetic and target tissue drug concentration studies and for dosage titration of drugs intended for treatment of bacterial pneumonias.
Antimalarial activity of saccharidic polymers of dapsone and sulfadimethoxine.	With the purpose of obtaining pro-drugs of dapsone and sulfadimethoxine, those chemotherapeutic agents were attached through covalent bonding to starch polymeric dialdehyde (Sumstar-190). The antimalarial activity of the two resulting compounds - the dapsone saccharidic polymer (PS6) and the sulfadimethoxine saccharidic polymer (PS7) - in mice experimentally inoculated with Plasmodium berghei was significantly increased with this molecular modification. Mice infected with malaria and kept without treatment together with others which received different doses of PS6 and PS7 were also partially or totally cured, possibly due to the ingestion of excrements containing the parent chemotherapeutic agents.
Effects of various treatments on induced chronic aflatoxicosis in rabbits.	Male New Zealand White rabbits were orally given 0.05 mg of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)/kg of body weight daily for 10 days and were treated with glutathione-precursors and depletor, antibacterial agents, or sodium thiosulfate. The drug administered, the mortality, and the mean survival time were as follows: corn-oil controls (0), euthanatized at 25 days; AFB1-controls (2), 21 days; AFB1 and saline controls (2), 22 days; cysteine and AFB1 (5), 13 days; methionine and AFB1 (5), 12 days; sodium thiosulfate and AFB1 (2), 21 days; sulfadimethoxine and AFB1 (1), 24 days; oxytetracycline and AFB1 (0), euthanatized at 25 days; and ethyl maleate and AFB1 (3), 21 days. Clinical signs of toxicosis included decreased feed consumption during AFB1 administration, loss of body weight or failure to gain, and death. Clinicopathologic changes included increases in serum bilirubin concentration and alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities. Prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times were lengthened. Plasma fibrinogen concentration was decreased. Changes in PCV, hemoglobin concentration, and serum alkaline phosphatase were unremarkable. Oxytetracycline had protective effects against chronic aflatoxicosis in rabbits. Cysteine and methionine enhanced chronic aflatoxicosis.
Comparison of low-level rofenaid, low-level chlortetracycline, and vaccination with commercial bacterin for preventing pulmonary form of fowl cholera in turkeys.	The pulmonary form of experimentally induced fowl cholera was controlled effectively either by Rofenaid, a potentiated sulfadimethoxine, at 0.01% in feed, chlortetracycline at 0.0055% in feed, vaccination with a commercial fowl cholera bacterin and a combination of Rofenaid and vaccination. The medicated or/and vaccinated turkeys had a significantly (P less than 0.05) better livability than the unmedicated or unvaccinated exposed turkeys. Turkeys were exposed by contact with carriers and administration of Pasteurella multocida in drinking water. Transmission from carriers to recipients through the water was demonstrated. P. multocida was isolated from the mouths of recipient turkeys receiving low-level medication one week after carriers were introduced.
Evaluation of two avirulent vaccines for preventing experimental fowl cholera in turkeys, and use of one vaccine in the field.	The Clemson University (CU) strain of live cholera vaccine administered in water (LCVW) was effective in immunizing turkeys against the pulmonary, arthritic, and cranial forms of fowl cholera. The Missouri strain of LCVW immunized turkeys against the pulmonary and septicemic forms of fowl cholera. Pasteurella multocida was isolated from the orifice of the auditory tube of 5% of the turkeys vaccinated with the CU strain 2 weeks postvaccination, but not 4 weeks after challenge. Mortality was not increased by administering the CU strain of LCVW at 5, 10, 20, and 40 x the standard dose of 4 x 10(8) P. multocida. A low concentration of Rofenaid (providing 0.01% potentiated sulfadimethoxine) had no perceptible effect on the development of immunity with the CU vaccine.
Monodrug efficacies of sulfonamides in prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.	A remarkably high rate of adverse events is associated with the use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in patients with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. We examined the efficacies of sulfonamides alone in the prevention of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonitis, with the assumption that at least some of the adverse events with the drug combination might be due to trimethoprim. With the immunosuppressed rat model, eight sulfonamides were studied at 100, 10, and 1.0 mg/kg/day (10 rats per dosage and drug). P. carinii infection was prevented in all animals (100%) receiving dosages of as little as 1.0 mg of sulfamethoxazole, sulfamethoxypyridazine, and sulfadimethoxine per kg per day, as little as 10 mg of sulfameter, sulfachlorpyridazine, and sulfaquinoxaline per kg per day; and 100 mg of sulfaguanidine and sulfanilamide per kg per day. These studies suggest that a sulfonamide, such as sulfamethoxazole, might provide effective prophylaxis for P. carinii pneumonitis without trimethoprim.
