Purification and properties of two forms of ATP sulfurylase from Euglena.	Two forms of ATP sulfurylase have been purified to homogeneity from mitochondria (ATPSm) and cells (ATPSc) of Euglena gracilis Klebs var. bacillaris Cori (aplastidic mutant W10BSmL). Both forms are monomeric, ATPSc is 52.3 kDa and ATPSm is 55 kDa. The pI is 7.9 for ATPSc and 5.8 for ATPSm. Therefore, ATPSm binds to DEAE-cellulose at pH 7.4; ATPSc does not. After cleavage by CNBr, the two forms of ATP sulfurylase show different sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) patterns, suggesting that they differ in amino acid sequence. ATPSm is mainly associated with the mitochondrial membrane and ATPSc is mainly soluble in the cells. Both enzymes require similar conditions in the molybdolysis assay, but show different pH optima when sulfate is used as substrate. ATPSc is more sensitive to adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (APS) inhibition than ATPSm in the SO2-4 incorporation reaction. In the reverse reaction, ATPSc requires much higher concentrations of PPi and MgCl2 to saturate the reaction than ATPSm. The data indicate that the two enzymes are quite distinct and may have different roles in cell metabolism.
Bacterial enzymes for dissimilatory sulfate reduction in a marine microbial mat (Black Sea) mediating anaerobic oxidation of methane.	Anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) with sulfate is catalysed by microbial consortia of archaea and bacteria affiliating with methanogens and sulfate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria respectively. There is evidence that methane oxidation is catalysed by enzymes related to those in methanogenesis, but the enzymes for sulfate reduction coupled to AOM have not been examined. We collected microbial mats with high AOM activity from a methane seep in the Black Sea. The mats consisted mainly of archaea of the ANME-2 group and bacteria of the Desulfosarcina-Desulfococcus group. Cell-free mat extract contained activities of enzymes involved in sulfate reduction to sulfide: ATP sulfurylase (adenylyl : sulfate transferase; Sat), APS reductase (Apr) and dissimilatory sulfite reductase (Dsr). We partially purified the enzymes by anion-exchange chromatography. The amounts obtained indicated that the enzymes are abundant in the mat, with Sat accounting for 2% of the soluble mat protein. N-terminal amino acid sequences of purified proteins suggested similarities to the corresponding enzymes of known species of sulfate-reducing bacteria. The deduced amino acid sequence of PCR-amplified genes of the Apr subunits is similar to that of Apr of the Desulfosarcina/Desulfococcus group. These results indicate that the major enzymes involved in sulfate reduction in the Back Sea microbial mats are of bacterial origin, most likely originating from the bacterial partner in the consortium.
Co-purification and characterization of ATP-sulfurylase and adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase from rat chondrosarcoma.	The two sulfate-activating enzymes, ATP-sulfurylase (EC 2.7.7.4) and adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase (adenylylsulfate kinase, EC 2.7.1.25), were each purified about 2000-fold from crude rat chondrosarcoma homogenate. Throughout a purification protocol which included Sephacryl S-300 gel filtration, DEAE-Sephadex ion exchange, hydroxylapatite, and ATP-agarose affinity chromatography, these two activities consistently co-purified. ATP-sulfurylase and adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase each showed a pH optima of 7.0-7.4 and a bimodal temperature optima of 46 and 52-54 degrees C. Both activities preferred Mg2+ as their divalent cation source over Mn2+, Co2+, or Zn2+. The apparent Km values determined for adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate in both assays was 1-5 microM; the Km for pyrophosphate in the sulfurylase reaction was 40 microM and for ATP in the kinase reaction was 5 mM. Gel electrophoresis indicated major bands at Mr = 160,000 in nondenaturing systems and 35,000-37,000 and 60,000 under dissociative conditions, whereas gel filtration of the most highly purified fractions yielded a coincident peak in the molecular weight range 260,000.
