The effects of different levels of air pollution on atopy and symptoms of allergic rhinitis.	We evaluated the prevalence of symptoms of allergic rhinitis and atopy among two groups living in areas with different pollution levels. The study was conducted among high school students living in Bayrampaşa (polluted by SO2 and TSP) and Beykoz (unpolluted, residential area) in Istanbul (n = 386). Each subject filled out a standardized self-administered questionnaire. Atopic status was evaluated by skin-prick testing using eight different allergens. Also, anterior active rhinomanometry was performed to evaluate the symptoms objectively. Significantly higher prevalence rates for symptoms of allergic rhinitis were found in Bayrampaşa (22.8%) compared to Beykoz (6%). However, no significant difference was found for atopic status among the two groups. When we evaluated the atopic status of subjects with symptoms of allergic rhinitis between the two areas, the prevalence of atopic students was found to be relatively higher in the unpolluted area (BZ). This difference was not statistically significant. Within the atopic population, subjects complaining of symptoms of allergic rhinitis were significantly more frequent in the polluted area (BP), suggesting that air pollution causes an increase in symptoms of allergic rhinitis in the atopic population, but this is not significantly higher than the increase in symptoms of allergic rhinitis of the total study group. Our results suggest that pollutants exert irritant effects on mucous membranes of the population in general rather than aggrevating symptoms in predisposed individuals. Smoking was more frequent in the unpolluted area. Exposure to parental smoking in childhood and heating systems in houses were evenly distributed. Household crowding was lower in Beykoz. Rhinomanometric measurements among the two groups did not show significant difference. Multiple logistic regression models estimating the role of each risk factor independently showed significant odds ratio associated with residence in Bayrampaşa for symptoms of allergic rhinitis (OR = 4.6, 95% CI = 9.0-2.3). In conclusion, this study suggests that outdoor pollution has adverse effects on the symptoms of allergic rhinitis, while it has no effect on the prevalence of atopy in Istanbul in the 1990s.
The short-term results of air pollution on mortality: the results of the EMECAM project in Cartagena, 1992-96. Estudio Multicéntrico Español sobre la Relación entre la Contaminación Atmosférica y la Mortalidad]	The problems of air pollution became noticeable in Cartagena in the seventies, high SO2 and particle levels having been reached from time to time. Our aim is to assess, using the EMECAM methodology, the acute impact of SO2 and particle air pollution on the daily death rate of the city of Cartagena in the 1992-1996 period.
The short-term effects of air pollution on mortality: the results of the EMECAM project in Castellón, 1991-95. Estudio Multicéntrico Español sobre la Relación entre la Contaminación Atmosférica y la Mortalidad]	In the last decade several studies have found out an association between air pollution and mortality in levels below the standards allowed by regulations. Castellón is a small city (134,000 inhabitants) with low air pollution levels. This work aims to identify if there is a short term relation between these both variables in this city.
The short-term effects of air pollution on mortality. The results of the EMECAM project in Saragossa, 1991-1995. Estudio Multicéntrico Español sobre la Relación entre la Contaminación Atmosférica y la Mortalidad]	To assess the short-term impact of pollution on the respiratory death rate in the city of Saragossa throughout the 1991-1995 period and to pinpoint whether any differences exists in terms of age and time of the year.
Is air pollution a risk factor for low birth weight in Seoul?	Environmental factors contributing to reduced birth weight are of great concern because of the well-known relation of birth weight to infant mortality and adverse effects in later life. We examined the associations between air pollution exposures during pregnancy and low birth weight among all full-term births (gestational age 37-44 weeks) for a 2-year period (January 1996 through December 1997) in Seoul, South Korea. We evaluated these associations with a generalized additive logistic regression adjusting for gestational age, maternal age, parental educational level, parity, and infant sex. We used smoothing plots with generalized additive models to analyze the exposure-response relation for each air pollutant. The adjusted relative risk of low birth weight was 1.08 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.04-1.12] for each interquartile increase for carbon monoxide concentrations during the first trimester of pregnancy. The relative risks were 1.07 (95% CI = 1.03-1.11) for nitrogen dioxide, 1.06 (95% CI = 1.02-1.10) for sulfur dioxide, and 1.04 (95% CI = 1.00-1.08) for total suspended particles also for interquartile increase in exposure. Carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and total suspended particle concentrations in the first trimester of pregnancy period are risk factors for low birth weight.
Daily mortality and air pollution along busy streets in Amsterdam, 1987-1998.	Time-series studies on the association between daily mortality and air pollution levels have been criticized because they use background air pollution measurement sites to estimate exposure of the whole population, including those living along busy roads. To evaluate whether the exposure of people living along busy roads is estimated with error, we calculated separate effect estimates with separate exposure estimates using background and traffic-influenced measurement stations. We used Poisson regression analysis with generalized additive models to correct for long-term trends, influenza, ambient temperature and relative humidity, and day of the week. Black smoke and nitrogen dioxide were associated with mortality (relative risk of 1.38 and 1.10, respectively, for an increase of 100 microg/m3 on the previous day). Effect estimates were larger in the summer and in the population living along busy roads. Effect estimates were also larger using background stations rather than traffic stations. Overall, we found differences in the association between mortality and air pollution using different methods of exposure assessment; these differences are attributable to exposure misclassification for populations living along busy roads.
Which factors are responsible for the changing lichen floras of London?	SO(2) is no longer the principal factor influencing the vitality and composition of lichen assemblages in London. We provide direct evidence for an impact on lichen growth during episodic high exhaust emissions coupled with unusual climatic conditions. This suggests a combination of particles and nitrogen plays a major role in influencing lichen growth. Nitrogen from traffic emissions may be at least as important as agriculture in influencing the composition of lichen assemblages.
Quantitative study by grey system on the latent period of lung cancer induced by air pollutants]	To calculate the latent period of lung cancer induced by air pollution.
Epidemiologic evidence of a relationship between airway hyperresponsiveness and exposure to polluted air.	There has been an increase in allergic diseases as a result of increased air pollution emanating from traffic and various industries.
Assessing the recovery of lakes in southeastern Canada from the effects of acidic deposition.	Reductions in North American sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions promoted expectations that aquatic ecosystems in southeastern Canada would soon recover from acidification. Only lakes located near smelters that have dramatically reduced emissions approach this expectation. Lakes in the Atlantic provinces, Quebec and Ontario affected only by long-range sources show a general decline in sulfate (SO4(2-)) concentrations, but with a relatively smaller compensating increase in pH or alkalinity. Several factors may contribute to the constrained (or most likely delayed) acidity response: declining base cation concentrations, drought-induced mobilization of SO4(2-), damaged internal alkalinity generation mechanisms, and perhaps increasing nitrate or organic anion levels. Monitoring to detect biological recovery in southeastern Canada is extremely limited, but where it occurs, there is little evidence of recovery outside of the Sudbury/Killarney area. Both the occurrence of Atlantic salmon in Nova Scotia rivers and the breeding success of Common Loons in Ontario lakes are in fact declining although factors beyond acidification also play a role. Chemical and biological models predict that much greater SO2 emission reductions than those presently required by legislation will be needed to promote widespread chemical and latterly, biological recovery. It may be unrealistic to expect that pre-industrial chemical and biological conditions can ever be reestablished in many lakes of southeastern Canada.
Response of phytoplankton communities to acidification and recovery in Killarney Park and the Experimental Lakes Area, Ontario.	It has been widely speculated that controls of SO2 emissions would stimulate recovery of acidified freshwater lakes in Canada, the United States and Europe. Phytoplankton communities from 22 lakes near Killarney Park Ontario, covering a pH range from 4.5-7.7, were studied from 1998-2000 and compared to data from experimentally acidified (pH decreased 6.7 to 4.5) and recovered (pH increased to 6.0) Lake 302 South at the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA), northwestern Ontario to assess recovery from acidification. Based on historical data, pH levels have rebounded to above 6.0 in several lakes in the Killarney area that were previously acidified to pH 5.0-5.5. Phytoplankton biomass was not correlated to pH, but there was a highly significant relationship between species richness and pH. Recovery trajectories were observed in a subset of 6 lakes, combining species diversity data from the present study with historical data. Correspondence analysis indicated that several of the lakes that experienced increased pH have shifted towards phytoplankton assemblages typical of circumneutral environments.
Recovery of crustacean zooplankton communities from acidification in Killarney Park, Ontario, 1971-2000: pH 6 as a recovery goal.	Despite reductions in atmospheric SO4(2-) deposition and resultant decreases in surface water acidity, widespread biological recovery from acidification has not yet been documented. Temporal trends in crustacean zooplankton species richness (number of species) and composition were examined between 1971-2000 in 46 Killarney Park lakes, Ontario, Canada, to assess the degree of biological recovery in lakes with significant water quality improvements, i.e. pH now > 6, compared to 2 other groups: i) lakes which never acidified; and ii) lakes which are still acidified (pH < 6). Time trends in species richness could not be distinguished among the 3 groups of lakes, nor did changes in species richness indicate recovery. In contrast, the zooplankton community composition of lakes in which the pH increased to above 6, as measured by a multivariate index of species abundances, changed from a "damaged" state to one typical of neutral lakes. Some recovery in composition was also documented for the acidic lakes. While still acidic, the pH levels of these lakes have risen. The extent and pace of recovery in Killarney Provincial Park bodes well for the future of other acidified regions in North America and Europe.
Relationship between air pollution and daily mortality in a tropical city: Kaohsiung, Taiwan.	Air pollution has been associated with daily mortality in numerous studies over the past decade. However, most of these studies were conducted in the United States and Europe, with relatively few done in Asia. In this study, the association between ambient air pollution and daily mortality in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, a large industrial city with a tropical climate, was investigated for the period 1994-2000 using a case-crossover analysis. This design is an alternative to Poisson time-series regression for studying the short-term adverse health effects of air pollution. The air pollutants examined included particulate matter (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2), ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO). No significant effects were found between PM10 and SO2 exposure levels and respiratory-related mortality. The well-established link between air pollution levels and daily mortality may not be as strong in cities in tropical areas, although other factors such as differences in pollutant mixtures or underlying health of the population may explain the lack of a strong association in this study. Further studies of this type in cities with varying climates and cultures are needed.
Review of air pollution and health impacts in Malaysia.	In the early days of abundant resources and minimal development pressures, little attention was paid to growing environmental concerns in Malaysia. The haze episodes in Southeast Asia in 1983, 1984, 1991, 1994, and 1997 imposed threats to the environmental management of Malaysia and increased awareness of the environment. As a consequence, the government established Malaysian Air Quality Guidelines, the Air Pollution Index, and the Haze Action Plan to improve air quality. Air quality monitoring is part of the initial strategy in the pollution prevention program in Malaysia. Review of air pollution in Malaysia is based on the reports of the air quality monitoring in several large cities in Malaysia, which cover air pollutants such as Carbon monoxide (CO), Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2), Ozone (O3), and Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM). The results of the monitoring indicate that Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) and Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) are the predominant pollutants. Other pollutants such as CO, O(x), SO2, and Pb are also observed in several big cities in Malaysia. The air pollution comes mainly from land transportation, industrial emissions, and open burning sources. Among them, land transportation contributes the most to air pollution. This paper reviews the results of the ambient air quality monitoring and studies related to air pollution and health impacts.
The role of air pollution in the relationship between a heat stress index and human mortality in Toronto.	In this study we considered confounding from air pollutants and chronological variables in the relation between humidex, a summer temperature and humidity index, and nonaccidental mortality, from 1980-1996 in Toronto, Canada. Changes in the risk of death by age group, gender, and combined cardiac-respiratory cause of death were estimated for both 1 degree C and 50-95th percentile increases in humidex using a generalized additive linear model. With air pollution terms in the models, relative risk (RR) point estimates narrowly exceeded 1.0 for all groups. Humidex effects were most apparent for females (RR=1.006, 95% CI=1.004-1.008 per 1 degree C humidex and RR=1.089, 95% CI=1.058-1.121 for 50th to 95th percentile humidex). When air pollution was omitted from the model, RR in the 50-95th percentile analysis increased less than 1.71% for all groups except females, for which RR decreased 1.42%. Differences in RR per 1 degree C humidex were all less than 0.12%. Confidence intervals narrowed slightly for all groups investigated. Heat stress has a statistically significant, yet minimal impact on Toronto populations, and air pollution does appear to have a small, but consistent confounding effect on humidex effect estimates.
Sulfur dioxide-induced bronchoconstriction in the isolated perfused and ventilated guinea-pig lung.	SO2 exposure (50-500 ppm) of isolated, perfused and ventilated guinea pig lungs, via the air passages, caused a concentration-related reduction in dynamic compliance and conductance. No changes in pulmonary perfusion flow was noted at any SO2 concentration. Formed sulfite was detected in lung lavage fluid as well as in the perfusate. Pretreatment of the lungs with a low concentration of SO2 (10 ppm) for 30 min protected against bronchoconstriction by a high concentration of SO2 (250 ppm). A similar protective effect was noted by pretreatment with sodium sulfite (3 mM) in the lung perfusate.
Association of air pollution with increased incidence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias recorded by implanted cardioverter defibrillators.	Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a consistent link between sudden cardiac deaths and particulate air pollution. We used implanted cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) records of ventricular tachyarrhythmias to assess the role of air pollution as a trigger of these potentially life-threatening events. The study cohort consisted of 203 cardiac patients with ICD devices in the Boston metropolitan area who were followed for an average of 3.1 years between 1995 and 2002. Fine particle mass and gaseous air pollution plus temperature and relative humidity were measured on almost all days, and black carbon, sulfate, and particle number on a subset of days. Date, time, and intracardiac electrograms of ICD-detected arrhythmias were downloaded at the patients' regular follow-up visits (about every 3 months). Ventricular tachyarrhythmias were identified by electrophysiologist review. Risk of ventricular arrhythmias associated with air pollution was estimated with logistic regression, adjusting for season, temperature, relative humidity, day of the week, patient, and a recent prior arrhythmia. We found increased risks of ventricular arrhythmias associated with 2-day mean exposure for all air pollutants considered, although these associations were not statistically significant. We found statistically significant associations between air pollution and ventricular arrhythmias for episodes within 3 days of a previous arrhythmia. The associations of ventricular tachyarrhythmias with fine particle mass, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and black carbon suggest a link with motor vehicle pollutants. The associations with sulfate suggest a link with stationary fossil fuel combustion sources.
Air quality improvements using European environment policies: a case study of SO2 in a coastal region in Portugal.	The European Union (EU) has defined several efforts for preventing and controlling air pollution that have led to a generalized reduction of health risks and environmental effects. One example of these efforts was the establishment of legislation that imposed a reduction of sulfur content in fuels, switching to cleaner fuels for industry and motor vehicles (Auto-Oil Directives). The goal of this study was to evaluate the first trends in the air quality of Oporto Metropolitan Area (Oporto-MA) related to implementation of these directives in Portugal since 2000. Therefore, sulfur dioxide (SO2) concentration data from air quality monitoring sites were analyzed for the period 1999 through 2003. It was observed that daily SO2 concentrations in the industrial area are much higher than those of the urban and rural areas, reflecting the influence of the industrial sector. The annual SO2 concentrations for the consecutive years of analysis decreased considerably for all the monitoring sites. A considerable decrease in SO2 emissions was also observed for the same period. According to EU legislation, the exceedances of the SO2 recommended limit values decreased significantly. In conclusion, this analysis shows evidence that SO2 concentrations are decreasing, and that this is consistent with the implementation of the legislation and control of the sources of pollution. Nevertheless, the potential for human health risks still persists, particularly in industrialized areas. It is expected that SO2 concentration levels in ambient air of Oporto-MA will continue to decrease in the coming years, following the present European trends.
The joint effects of various atmospheric pollutants: a meta-analysis]	Epidemiological and experimental papers on respiratory effects of air pollution published between 1980 and 1988 were reviewed, using a meta-analytical approach. Forty epidemiological papers dealing with sulfur dioxide (SO2) and total suspended particles (TSP) were used to scrutinize the interaction between the two pollutants, and suggested that the effect of the acid gas was enhanced by the joint presence of TSP. Oxidant pollution combining O3 and NO2 was also found more noxious than ozone alone, using 32 experimental design papers. These results stem from the multivariate modelization of the relationship between the relative risk of cough or the relative decrease of FEV1.0, and the pollutants concentration, and illustrated some of the advantages of this quantitative approach to literature review. Underlying physiopathological processes are discussed, in the light of the important literature available on this topic.
Estimating cumulative ambient concentrations of air pollutants: description and precision of methods used for an epidemiological study.	Methods for estimating cumulative ambient air pollution concentrations for individuals enrolled in an epidemiological cohort study are described and studied. Monthly interpolations from fixed-site monitoring stations in California to zip code centroids were used. The precision of the interpolation methods for total suspended particulates and ozone was assessed, and fixed-site monitoring stations were used in turn as receptor sites. Actual versus interpolated 2-y mean concentrations did not differ significantly and were correlated with a Pearson correlation coefficient of .78 for total suspended particulates and .87 for ozone. The impact of the change from monitoring total oxidants to ozone on oxidant/ozone cumulations was evaluated, and monthly mean concentrations for total oxidants were compared with ozone for 435 station months during which both pollutants were measured simultaneously. Average concentrations did not differ significantly and were highly correlated (r = 0.94). Exceedance frequency statistics, which averaged slightly higher for ozone than for total oxidants, were also highly correlated.
Effect of short-term exposure to low levels of SO2 and NOx on pulmonary function and methacholine and allergen bronchial sensitivities in asthmatic children.	Air pollution is an inevitable consequence of industrialization. Continuous exposure to air pollution may cause or trigger respiratory allergic diseases. This study was designed to evaluate whether short-term, 5-min exposures to low levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) influence pulmonary function and increase bronchial sensitivity to methacholine and specific allergens. Five male and 1 female mite-sensitive asthmatic children (mean age 12 y) were studied during symptom-free periods. Pulmonary function tests were conducted after breathing 5, 15, 35, 65, and 105 breaths of compressed polluted air, which was collected from the Lin-Sun S. Road tunnel in Taipei city. Concentrations of SO2 and NOx were 70-120 ppb and 450-500 ppb, respectively, and were 6-fold and 20-fold, respectively, higher than those of ambient air. Methacholine and mite allergen bronchial challenges were completed after 105 breaths of polluted air were inhaled. No difference in pulmonary function was noted after polluted air and ambient air were inhaled, and the methacholine and allergen sensitivities of airways were not increased after polluted air was inhaled. The authors concluded that short-term exposures to low concentrations of SO2 and NOx did not affect the lung function and did not increase bronchial sensitivity to methacholine and allergen.
Prevalence rates of respiratory symptoms in Italian general population samples exposed to different levels of air pollution.	We surveyed two general population samples aged 8 to 64 living in the unpolluted, rural area of the Po Delta (northern Italy) (n = 3289) and in the urban area of Pisa (central Italy) (n = 2917). Each subject filled out a standardized interviewer-administered questionnaire. The Pisa sample was divided into three groups according to their residence in the urban-suburban areas and to outdoor air pollution exposure (automobile exhaust only or industrial fumes as well). Significantly higher prevalence rates of all the respiratory symptoms and diseases were found in Pisa compared with the Po Delta. In particular, rhinitis and wheezing symptoms were higher in all the three urban zones; chronic cough and phlegm were higher in the zone with the automobile exhaust and the additional industrial exposure. Current smoking was more frequent in the rural area, but the urban smokers had a higher lifetime cigarette consumption. Childhood respiratory trouble and recurrent respiratory illnesses were evenly distributed. Exposure to parental smoking in childhood and lower educational level were more frequent in Po Delta, whereas familial history of respiratory/allergic disorders and work and indoor exposures were more often reported in the city. Multiple logistic regression models estimating independently the role of the various risk factors showed significant odds ratios associated with residence in Pisa for all the symptoms but chronic phlegm. For example, those living in the urban-industrial zone had an odds ratio of 4.0 (4.3-3.7) for rhinitis and 2.8 (3.0-2.6) for wheeze with respect to those living in the Po Delta.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Air pollution--adverse effects of sulfur dioxide.	Among air pollutants, sulfur dioxide has been found to be very injurious. The present article deals with the adverse effects of sulfur dioxide gas on metals, metal alloys, buildings and plants, animals and human beings.
To explore the mechanisms of neurogenic inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness of rat by inhaled sulfur]	To explore the physiopathological mechanisms of airway injury and the effect on the airway responsiveness of rat by inhaled sulfur dioxide(SO2).
Air pollution and hospitalization for acute complications of diabetes in Chile.	Exposure to air pollution has been shown to cause insulin resistance in mice. To determine the relevance to humans, we tested the association between daily air pollution concentrations and daily hospitalization for acute serious complications of diabetes, coma and ketoacidosis, in Santiago between 2001 and 2008, using generalized linear models with natural splines to control for long term trends. For an interquartile range (IQR) increase in air pollutant, the relative risks (95% CI) of hospitalization for diabetes were: 1.15 (1.10, 1.20) for carbon monoxide (IQR=1.00); 1.07 (0.98, 1.16) for ozone (IQR=63.50); 1.14 (1.06, 1.22) for sulfur dioxide (IQR=5.88); 1.12(1.05, 1.20) for nitrogen dioxide (IQR=27.94); 1.11 (1.07, 1.15) for particulate matter≤10 μm diameter(IQR=34.00); and 1.11 (1.06, 1.16) for fine particulate matter ≤2.5 μm diameter (IQR=18.50). Results were similar when stratified by age, sex and season. Air pollution appears to increase the risk of acute complications of diabetes requiring hospitalization, suggesting that improvements in air quality may reduce morbidity from diabetes.
Environmental pollutants and stroke-related hospital admissions.	Some effects of environmental pollution on human health are known, especially those affecting the respiratory and cardiovascular systems. The current study aimed to estimate these effects on the production of hospital admissions for stroke. This was an ecological study using hospital admissions data in São José dos Campos, São Paulo State, Brazil, with diagnosis of stroke, from January 1, 2007, to April 30, 2008. The target pollutants were particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and ozone. Use of a Poisson linear regression model showed that same-day exposure to particulate matter was associated with hospitalization for stroke (RR = 1.013; 95%CI: 1.001-1.025). An increase of 10 µg/m(3) in this pollutant increased the risk of hospitalization by 12% (RR = 1.137; 95%CI: 1.014-1.276). In the multi-pollutant model, it was thus possible to identify particulate matter as associated with hospitalization for stroke in a medium-sized city like São José dos Campos.
Asthma and ambient pollutants: a time series study.	To estimate the risk of hospitalization for asthma in children after exposure to air pollutants in a medium-sized city in Southeast Brazil.
A preliminary assessment of dispersion level of SO 2 in Fars industrial region, south of Iran, by GIS.	The city of Zarghan is located 25 km northeast of Shiraz, southern Iran. Zarghan is affected by numerous pollution sources such as oil refinery, an industrial park, and Shiraz-Tehran highway. The numerous contaminating sources around Zarghan can cause serious local air pollution. Sulfur dioxide gas is an important index of air pollution in cities. Therefore, in order to control and manage Zarghan air quality, it is important to monitor sulfur dioxide concentration in the surrounding area. It is also essential to know about the contribution level of other sources of pollution as well as dispersion radius of pollutants in the area. In this study, the concentration of sulfur dioxide was measured by passive sampling at 10 different stations. These values were interpolated in other parts of the city using ArcGIS software. The results of sampling showed that the concentration of the gas was 60 µgm(-3) around oil refinery. The level was 19 µgm(-3) in region located about 3 km from the oil refinery. It was also demonstrated that the gas concentration was not higher than the standard limit within residential area. On the other hand, the role of the local highway and industrial park was not significant in contaminating air in urban areas. 
Impact of outdoor air pollution on the incidence of tuberculosis in the Seoul metropolitan area, South Korea.	Although indoor air pollution is a well-known risk factor for tuberculosis (TB), the possible link between outdoor air pollution and TB development has not been examined fully. We assessed the impact of outdoor air pollution on TB development in the Seoul metropolitan area, South Korea.
Impact of air pollutants on athletic performance.	Human controlled and observational studies both lead to the conclusion of air pollution adversely affecting athletic performance during training and competition. The dosage of various air pollutants during exercise is much higher due to the marked increase in ventilatory rate and concomitant nasal and oral breathing. This is particularly true for sulfur dioxide which is a highly water-soluble gas and is normally absorbed in the upper airway during nasal breathing. With heavy exercise, oral pharyngeal breathing is the predominant mode of breathing and much larger amounts of sulfur dioxide are delivered to the lower airway resulting in significant impact upon the lower respiratory tract. More recently, several controlled human studies have shown that a combination of exercise and air pollutants such as ozone (O3) or sulfur dioxides (SO2) cause a significant increase in bronchoconstriction and air flow obstruction when compared to the same exposure at rest. In strenuous athletic competition such as the Olympic Games where small increments of time often determine the ultimate success of athletes, the impact of air pollutants and subsequent adverse ventilatory changes can affect athletic performance.
Risk of ischemic heart disease among primary aluminum production workers.	The risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD) has been studied in relation to working conditions encountered in a primary aluminum smelter employing over 6,000 men. During the period 1975-1983, 306 new cases of IHD were identified which were matched with 575 referents. A logistic regression analysis was performed to adjust for differences in smoking habits, high blood pressure, hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity. Results from this showed that white collar workers had a significantly lower risk of IHD (odds ratio 0.47, 95% confidence interval 0.31-0.70). Among blue collar workers, a significantly higher risk was observed for workers in the reduction division of the plant (OR 1.72, CI 1.09-2.97) including, in particular, Soderberg (OR 1.71, CI 1.07-2.72) and prebake (OR 2.26, CI. 1.27-4.02) potroom workers. The risk of IHD did not increase with the length of time worked in these occupations. The search for associations (among blue collar workers) of risk with nine specific contaminants (benzene soluble material, fluoride, total dust, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, thermal stress, noise, physical load, and mental load) proved inconclusive, with no association reaching statistical significance.
Sulfite hypersensitivity. A critical review.	Sulfiting agents (sulfur dioxide and the sodium and potassium salts of bisulfite, sulfite, and metabisulfite) are widely used as preservatives in foods, beverages, and pharmaceuticals. Within the past 5 years, there have been numerous reports of adverse reactions to sulfiting agents. This review presents a comprehensive compilation and discussion of reports describing reactions to ingested, inhaled, and parenterally administered sulfite. Sulfite hypersensitivity is usually, but not exclusively, found within the chronic asthmatic population. Although there is some disagreement on its prevalence, a number of studies have indicated that 5 to 10% of all chronic asthmatics are sulfite hypersensitive. This review also describes respiratory sulfur dioxide sensitivity which essentially all asthmatics experience. Possible mechanisms of sulfite hypersensitivity and sulfur dioxide sensitivity are discussed in detail. Sulfite metabolism and the role of sulfite oxidase in the detoxification of exogenous sulfite are reviewed in relationship to the etiology of sulfite hypersensitivity.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease symptom effects of long-term cumulative exposure to ambient levels of total suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide in California Seventh-Day Adventist residents.	Risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease symptoms due to long-term exposure to ambient levels of total suspended particulates (TSP) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) symptoms was ascertained using the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) respiratory symptoms questionnaire on 7,445 Seventh-Day Adventists. They were non-smokers, at least 25 yr of age, and had lived 11 yr or more in areas ranging from high to low photochemical air pollution in California. Participant cumulative exposures to each pollutant in excess of four thresholds were estimated using monthly residence zip code histories and interpolated dosages from state air monitoring stations. These pollutant thresholds were entered individually and in combination in multiple logistic regression analyses with eight covariables including passive smoking. Statistically significant associations with chronic symptoms were seen for: SO2 exposure above 4 pphm (104 mcg/m3), (p = .03), relative risk 1.18 for 500 hr/yr of exposure; and for total suspended particulates (TSP) above 200 mcg/m3, (p less than .00001), relative risk of 1.22 for 750 hr/yr.
Some effects of cigarette smoking, arsenic, and SO2 on mortality among US copper smelter workers.	Previous studies of the relationship between arsenic levels and respiratory cancer among copper smelter workers have not directly accounted for possible effects of SO2 exposure and cigarette smoking. This is a report on the 1949-1980 mortality experience of 6,078 white male workers who worked at least 3 years between 1 January 1946 and 31 December 1976 at one or more of eight US copper smelters. The completeness of the cohort was verified statistically, and worker exposures to arsenic, SO2, dust, nickel, cadmium, and lead were estimated from retrospective industrial hygiene surveys reported elsewhere. By using internal controls, a dose-response relationship for lung cancer was observed with exposure to arsenic and SO2. When cigarette smoking data were included with arsenic and SO2 exposure data in a nested case-control analysis, only smoking and arsenic were statistically significant factors. The arsenic-lung cancer relationship was confined to a single smelter associated with high content feed. In the remaining smelters mortality for all causes of death and for all cancer was not high based on comparisons with national, state, and local rates.
Pharmacology of disodium cromoglycate.	When given before exposure to an allergen, cromoglycate (DSCG) inhibits immediate and late bronchoconstriction after allergen inhalation. DSCG inhibits exercise- and SO2-induced bronchoconstriction and probably also has a soothing effect on vago-vagal reflexes which cause bronchospasms deriving from irritant receptors of the lung. DSCG given for a long period of time reduces bronchial hyperreactivity, i.e. readiness for asthma in general (the crucial dosage of histamine able to induce asthma increases). Bronchial hyperreactivity is caused by viral infections, late allergic reactions, irritating chemicals such as SO2, betablockers, alphastimulants and increased vagal efferent activity. Betastimulants, anticholinergics and anti-SRS do not reduce hyperreactivity in the long run; only DSCG and corticosteroids are effective.
Respiratory effects of air pollutants: experimental studies in humans.	Epidemiological and environmental chamber studies in man, and toxicological studies in animals, have provided valuable insights into the biological effects, the mechanisms of action, and the dose-response characteristics of some major air pollutants. This review describes the information currently available on air pollutant effects in man, as the result of experimental studies. There are certain advantages, as well as some limitations, in human chamber exposure studies, but if carefully designed and based upon relevant background data they may give information that is valuable for understanding the effects of air pollutants in man. Reversible effects on the airway mechanics, the responsiveness of the airways to methacholine and allergen have been shown to be caused by air pollutants. Furthermore, significant changes have been demonstrated in airway permeability, bronchoalveolar lavage, nasal lavage, and peripheral blood cells and inflammatory markers. Currently, human toxicology to air pollutants is a progressive research area.
Health effects of outdoor air pollution.	One hundred sixty-four million Americans live in areas that fail to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for six common air pollutants: particulates, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone and lead. The impact of these pollutants on health is significant. A Pollutant Standards Index (PSI) ranging from 0 to 500 is used to monitor air quality. When the PSI exceeds 100, the acceptable federal standard has been exceeded by at least one of four measured pollutants. When this occurs, all individuals should be advised to curtail physical activity between late morning and sunset and to remain indoors if possible. Athletes should be encouraged to train in the early morning, when photochemicals are usually at their lowest levels.
Chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and low-level air pollution in Helsinki, 1987-1989.	The effects of low levels of air pollution and weather conditions on the number of patients admitted to hospitals for exacerbation of chronic bronchitis or emphysema (n = 2807) was studied in Helsinki during a 3-year period, 1987-1989. The daily number of admissions via the emergency room was significantly associated with prevailing levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) in Poisson regressions controlled for weather, season, time trends, and day of the week, whereas the total number of admissions (via the emergency room and otherwise) was not significantly associated with these pollutants. The effect of SO2 was observed only among those under 65 years old; a significant peak of admissions was seen during the same day (RR, 1.31 for a 2.7-fold increase in SO2; 95% CI, 1.01-1.70; P = 0.039), and another after a 3-day lag (RR, 1.39; 95% CI, 1.05-1.86; P = 0.021). The effect of NO2 was strongest after a 6-day lag and was significant only among those over 64 years old (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.03-1.66; P = 0.022). The average of mean 24-hr concentrations of NO2 was 39 micrograms/m3 (0.021 ppm) and that for SO2 was 19 micrograms/m3 (0.0067 ppm). No relationship was found between admissions and the concentrations of total suspended particulates (TSP) or ozone (O3), the temperature, or the relative humidity. However, the number of admissions among those over 64 years of age was significantly lower, irrespective of temperature, during the summer than during other seasons. The mean daily concentration of O3 was fairly low (22 micrograms/m3 or 0.011 ppm), but that of TSP was high, 76 micrograms/m3. the mean temperature was low, +4.7 degrees C. These results suggest that SO2 and NO2 concentrations lower than those given as guidelines in many countries, and lower than previously shown, may increase the incidence of symptoms in some patients with chronic bronchitis or emphysema.
Effects of sulphur dioxide and smoke on the incidence of secretory otitis media.	The study deals with the effects of sulphur dioxide and smoke as air pollutants on the incidence of secretory otitis media. Although various atmospheric irritants, such as sulphur dioxide and smoke, have been reported to increase proneness to infection and allergy stabilization, and to cause Eustachian tube obstruction and development of secretory otitis media by way of infection and allergy reaction, such statements appear to be challenged by the results obtained in this study. No correlation was found between the number of children hospitalized for secretory otitis media, and the mean and maximum monthly concentrations of sulphur dioxide and smoke in the air. Although there has been a steady decrease in sulphur dioxide and smoke concentrations over the past decade, the number of cases of secretory otitis media has not only failed to follow that decrease but has actually increased.
Mortality in a cohort of Russian fertilizer workers.	The study evaluated the mortality of workers exposed to precursors of N-nitroso compounds in a Russian fertilizer plant.
The urban/rural divide in head and neck cancer--the effect of atmospheric pollution.	Inter-district variations in the incidence of head and neck squamous carcinoma in the period 1978-1987 have been identified from records at the West Midlands Cancer Registry, England. Analysis of the records reflect the national and international trend of higher urban cancer rates compared with neighbouring rural communities. Atmospheric pollution data (mean sulphur dioxide and smoke concentrations) from a national survey are positively correlated with squamous cancer of the larynx and pharynx. The correlation is most significant between laryngeal cancer rates and atmospheric sulphur dioxide levels. The periods 1950-1970 and 1970-1990 have been analysed separately to reflect the reduction in atmospheric pollution that has occurred over these years and thus avoid missing a latent effect that this might have on cancer rates.
Peak expiratory flow variability, bronchial responsiveness, and susceptibility to ambient air pollution in adults.	Bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR) and peak expiratory flow (PEF) variability are associated expressions of airway lability, yet probably reflect different underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms. We investigated whether both measures can be used interchangeably to identify subjects who are susceptible to ambient air pollution. Data on BHR (>= 20% fall in FEV1), PEF variability (ampl%mean PEF > 5% on any day during an 8-d period with low air pollution levels) and diary data on upper and lower respiratory symptoms, cough, and phlegm were collected in 189 subjects (48-73 yr). The acute effects (lag0) of particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometers (PM10), black smoke, SO2 and NO2 on the prevalence of symptoms were estimated with logistic regression. In subjects with airway lability, both when expressed as PEF variability (69%) and BHR (28%), the prevalence of symptoms increased significantly with increasing levels of air pollution, especially in those with the greater PEF variability (n = 55, 29%). We found no such consistent positive associations in adults without airway lability. PEF variability, and to a smaller extent BHR, can be used to identify adults who are susceptible to air pollution. Though odds ratios were rather low (ranging from 1.13 to 1.41), the impact on public health can be substantial because it applies to large populations.
Association between hospital emergency visits for asthma and air pollution in Valencia, Spain.	To assess the short term effect of concentrations of black smoke, sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and ozone (O3) in ambient air on emergency room visits for asthma in the city of Valencia, Spain during the period 1994-5.
Air pollution and mortality in Madrid, Spain: a time-series analysis.	To assess the relationship, if any, between air pollutant (sulfur dioxide and total suspended particulate) levels and mortality in the city of Madrid during the period 1986-1992, controlling for weather, season, and influenza epidemics.
Association of air pollution caused by sulphur dioxide and total number of particles in suspension and daily mortality in the city of Madrid (1986-1992)]	The aim of the study is to quantify the relationship between sulphur dioxide (SO2), total suspended particulate (TSP) and daily mortality in Madrid.
