Temperature monitoring using ultrasound contrast agents: in vitro investigation on thermal stability.	Invasiveness of temperature monitoring devices is presently one of the most serious limitations to the application of oncological hyperthermia (HT). A promising approach aims at detecting temperature variations by monitoring the mean grey level (MGL) of the ultrasonographic image of the tissue. Gaseous ultrasound contrast agents (UCA), enhancing Ultrasonic (US) imaging, are expected to be sensitive to temperature, and are therefore a good candidate as temperature monitoring medium. The present study evaluates the 'in vitro' temporal and thermal stability and the correlation between temperature and MGL using a gaseous UCA (SonoVue) as phantom. No statistical differences were detected between the MGL value of the phantom kept at 43.5 degrees C before (215.2+/-3.5) and after 1 h (214.8+/-2.5), showing good stability at HT temperatures. Data of MGL image vs. temperature were obtained during both heating and cooling experiments in the HT range (30-43 degrees C). A good linearity of MGL vs. temperature (R2=0.976) was found with a good accuracy (2.5%) and a sensitivity of about 6.6 MGL/degrees C.
Investigation of a new approach to decompose two potent greenhouse gases: photoreduction of SF(6) and SF(5)CF(3) in the presence of acetone.	In this paper, we addressed the utilization of photochemical method as an innovative technology for the destruction and removal of two potent greenhouse gases, SF(6) and SF(5)CF(3). The destruction and removal efficiency (DRE) of the process was determined as a function of excitation wavelength, irradiation time, initial ratio of acetone to SF(5)X (X represented F or CF(3)), initial SF(5)X concentration, additive oxygen and water vapor concentration. A complete removal was achieved by a radiation period of 55min and 120min for SF(6)-CH(3)COCH(3) system and SF(5)CF(3)-CH(3)COCH(3) system respectively under 184.9nm irradiation. Extra addition of water vapor can enhance DRE by approximately 6% points in both systems. Further studies with GC/MS and FT-IR proved that no hazardous products such as S(2)F(10), SO(2)F(2), SOF(2), SOF(4) were generated in this process.
TiO2 nanotube array sensor for detecting the SF6 decomposition product SO2.	The detection of partial discharge through analysis of SF(6) gas components in gas-insulated switchgear, is significant for the diagnosis and assessment of the operating state of power equipment. The present study proposes the use of a TiO(2) nanotube array sensor for detecting the SF(6) decomposition product SO(2), and the application of the anodic oxidation method for the directional growth of highly ordered TiO(2) nanotube arrays. The sensor response of 10-50 ppm SO(2) gas is tested, and the sensitive response mechanism is discussed. The test results show that the TiO(2) nanotube sensor array has good response to SO(2) gas, and by ultraviolet radiation, the sensor can remove attached components very efficiently, shorten recovery time, reduce chemical poisoning, and prolong the life of the components.
Surfactant shedding and gas diffusion during pulsed ultrasound through a microbubble contrast agent suspension.	Interest in coated microbubbles as agents for therapeutic and quantitative imaging applications in biomedical ultrasound has increased the need for their accurate theoretical characterization. Effects such as gas diffusion, variation in the properties of the coating and the resulting changes in bubble behavior under repeated exposure to ultrasound pulses are, however, still not well understood. In this study, a revised equation for microbubble motion is proposed that includes the effects of gas diffusion, as well as adsorption, desorption and shedding of a surfactant from the bubble surface. This is incorporated into a nonlinear wave propagation model to account for these additional time dependent effects in the response of microbubble populations. The results from the model indicate there can be significant changes in both bubble behavior and the propagated pulse over time. This is in agreement with existing experimental data but is not predicted by existing propagation models. The analysis indicates that changes in bubble dynamics are dominated by surfactant shedding on the timescale of a diagnostic ultrasound pulse and gas diffusion over the timescale of the pulse repetition frequency. The implications of these results for the development of more accurate algorithms for quantitative imaging and for therapeutic applications are discussed. 
Investigation on the inertial cavitation threshold and shell properties of commercialized ultrasound contrast agent microbubbles.	The inertial cavitation (IC) activity of ultrasound contrast agents (UCAs) plays an important role in the development and improvement of ultrasound diagnostic and therapeutic applications. However, various diagnostic and therapeutic applications have different requirements for IC characteristics. Here through IC dose quantifications based on passive cavitation detection, IC thresholds were measured for two commercialized UCAs, albumin-shelled KangRun(®) and lipid-shelled SonoVue(®) microbubbles, at varied UCA volume concentrations (viz., 0.125 and 0.25 vol. %) and acoustic pulse lengths (viz., 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 cycles). Shell elastic and viscous coefficients of UCAs were estimated by fitting measured acoustic attenuation spectra with Sarkar's model. The influences of sonication condition (viz., acoustic pulse length) and UCA shell properties on IC threshold were discussed based on numerical simulations. Both experimental measurements and numerical simulations indicate that IC thresholds of UCAs decrease with increasing UCA volume concentration and acoustic pulse length. The shell interfacial tension and dilatational viscosity estimated for SonoVue (0.7 ± 0.11 N/m, 6.5 ± 1.01 × 10(-8) kg/s) are smaller than those of KangRun (1.05 ± 0.18 N/m, 1.66 ± 0.38 × 10(-7) kg/s); this might result in lower IC threshold for SonoVue. The current results will be helpful for selecting and utilizing commercialized UCAs for specific clinical applications, while minimizing undesired IC-induced bioeffects. 
Synthesis of laboratory Ultrasound Contrast Agents.	Ultrasound Contrast Agents (UCAs) were developed to maximize reflection contrast so that organs can be seen clearly in ultrasound imaging. UCAs increase the signal to noise ratio (SNR) by linear and non-linear mechanisms and thus help more accurately visualize the internal organs and blood vessels. However, the UCAs on the market are not only expensive, but are also not optimized for use in various therapeutic research applications such as ultrasound-aided drug delivery. The UCAs fabricated in this study utilize conventional lipid and albumin for shell formation and perfluorobutane as the internal gas. The shape and density of the UCA bubbles were verified by optical microscopy and Cryo SEM, and compared to those of the commercially available UCAs, Definity® and Sonovue®. The size distribution and characteristics of the reflected signal were also analyzed using a particle size analyzer and ultrasound imaging equipment. Our experiments indicate that UCAs composed of spherical microbubbles, the majority of which were smaller than 1 um, were successfully synthesized. Microbubbles 10 um or larger were also identified when different shell characteristics and filters were used. These laboratory UCAs can be used for research in both diagnoses and therapies. 
A multiplicative model for improving microvascular flow estimation in dynamic contrast-enhanced ultrasound (DCE-US): theory and experimental validation.	Perfusion parameter estimation from dynamic contrast-enhanced ultrasound (DCE-US) data relies on fitting parametric models of flow to curves describing linear echo power as a function of time. The least squares criterion is generally used to fit these models to data. This criterion is optimal in the sense of maximum likelihood under the assumption of an additive white Gaussian noise. In the current work, it is demonstrated that this assumption is not held for DCEUS. A better-adapted maximum likelihood criterion based on a multiplicative model is proposed. It is tested on simulated bolus perfusion data and on 11 sequences acquired in vivo during bolus perfusion of contrast agent in the cortex of healthy murine kidney, an area where the perfusion is expected to be approximately homogeneous. Results on simulated data show a significant improvement (p < 0.05) of the precision and the accuracy for the estimations of perfusion parameters time to peak (TTP), wash-in rate (WiR), and mean transit time (MTT). On the 11 in vivo sequences, the new method leads to a significant reduction (p < 0.05) in the variation of parametric maps for 9 sequences for TTP and 10 sequences for WiR and MTT. The mean percent decreases of the coefficient of variation are 40%, 25%, and 59% for TTP, WiR, and MTT, respectively. This method should contribute to a more robust and accurate estimation of perfusion parameters and an improved resolution of parametric imaging. 
Relative narcotic potency and mode of action of sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen in humans.	Impairments of psychomotor, perceptual, and cognitive abilities were determined in nine male subjects exposed to inhaled SF6 partial pressures of 0, 52, 104, and 156 kPa and to inhaled N2 partial pressures of 103, 575, 825, and 1,075 kPa. Also data from a previous study with inhaled N2O partial pressures of 0, 13, 26, and 39 kPa were included. With the highest gas concentrations, performances were reduced by 41-57%. Effective doses for a 20% performance impairment were 830, 97, and 21.5 kPa for N2, SF6, and N2O, respectively, yielding relative narcotic potencies of 1.0:8.5:39. The order of narcotic potencies is the same as for the lipid solubility of the three gases. In contrast, the order of increasing tendency for hydrate formation (decreasing hydrate dissociation pressure) for the three gases is N2, N2O, and SF6. Thus, mild to moderate inert gas narcosis in humans shows the same positive relationship to lipid solubility as was shown in previous animal models that utilized much deeper levels of anesthesia.
