Evaluation of apoptosis and micronucleation induced by reactor neutron beams with two different cadmium ratios in total and quiescent cell populations within solid tumors.	Response of quiescent (Q) and total tumor cells in solid tumors to reactor neutron beam irradiation with two different cadmium (Cd) ratios was examined in terms of micronucleus (MN) frequency and apoptosis frequency, using four different tumor cell lines.
Antioxidant and cardioprotective properties of the sulphydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor zofenopril.	Zofenopril, a new potent sulphydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, is characterized by high lipophilicity, selective cardiac ACE inhibition, and antioxidant and tissue protective activities. In vitro and in vivo experiments suggest that zofenopril exerts antioxidant properties at clinically achievable tissue concentrations. In endothelial cells, zofenopril enhances nitric oxide production, attenuates atherosclerotic lesion development and inhibits adhesion molecule expression by reducing reactive oxygen species. These peculiar characteristics are reflected in the drug's cardioprotective activity, which has been shown to be greater than that of non-sulphydryl ACE inhibitors. Cardiac hypertrophy was also reduced by chronic zofenopril administration, independently of its blood pressure-reducing effect. ACE inhibitors with a sulphydryl group could have an advantage in improving vascular function and reducing cardiac impairment compared with non-sulphydryl-containing ACE inhibitors. This could explain zofenopril's remarkable clinical efficacy post-infarction, and potentially beneficial use in prevention and therapy of cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis, thrombosis and heart failure.
Therapeutic elevation of HDL-cholesterol to prevent atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease.	Innovative pharmacological approaches to raise anti-atherogenic high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) are currently of considerable interest, particularly in atherogenic dyslipidemias characterized by low levels of HDL-C, such as type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, and mixed dyslipidemia, but equally among individuals with or at elevated risk for premature cardiovascular disease (CVD). Epidemiological and observational studies first demonstrated that HDL-C was a strong, independent predictor of coronary heart disease (CHD) risk, and suggested that raising HDL-C levels might afford clinical benefit. Accumulating data from clinical trials of pharmacological agents that raise HDL-C levels have supported this concept. In addition to the pivotal role that HDL-C plays in reverse cholesterol transport and cellular cholesterol efflux, HDL particles possess a spectrum of anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative, anti-apoptotic, anti-thrombotic, vasodilatory and anti-infectious properties, all of which potentially contribute to their atheroprotective nature. Significantly, anti-atherogenic properties of HDL particles are attenuated in common metabolic diseases that are characterized by subnormal HDL-C levels, such as type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Inhibition of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), a key player in cholesterol metabolism and transport, constitutes an innovative target for HDL-C raising. In lipid efficacy trials, 2 CETP inhibitors-JTT-705 and torcetrapib-induced marked elevation in HDL-C levels, with torcetrapib displaying greater efficacy. Moreover, both agents attenuate aortic atherosclerosis in cholesterol-fed rabbits. Clinical trial data demonstrating the clinical benefits of these drugs on atherosclerosis and CHD are eagerly awaited.
Boron neutron capture therapy using mixed epithermal and thermal neutron beams in patients with malignant glioma-correlation between radiation dose and radiation injury and clinical outcome.	To clarify the correlation between the radiation dose and clinical outcome of sodium borocaptate-based intraoperative boron neutron capture therapy in patients with malignant glioma.
Effect of the thiol group on experimental gold-induced autoimmunity.	Brown Norway rats injected with aurothiopropanolsulfonate sodium salt develop systemic autoimmunity. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of the sulfur-containing group in this experimental model of gold-induced autoimmunity. It was shown that the sulfur-containing group does not induce autoimmunity of itself, but potentiates the immunotoxic effects of gold.
Experimental study on detoxication effect of sulfhydryl compounds in acute poisoning of dimethylformamide]	To study the change in oxidase and anti-oxidase in liver of the mice poisoned by dimethylformamide (DMF), and the effects of the treatment with sulfhydryl compounds in acute poisoning of DMF.
Therapeutic abilities of thiol compounds in the restoration of methylmercury-inhibited cholesterol and triglycerides of the rat's central nervous system.	The present study was basically designed to gain an insight into the alterations in the levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in various neuroanatomical areas of the rat under the influence of different doses and durations of methylmercury chloride (MMC), N-acetyl-DL-homocysteine thiolactone (NAHT), and glutathione (GSH) applications. The study showed insignificant alterations in the levels of both the metabolites after two days of drug and antagonist application. The rest of the animal groups exhibited a progressive inhibition of both the metabolites in all the CNS areas with increasing dose and duration of drug treatment. The antagonists, NAHT and GSH, were able to cause a recovery in both the metabolites in most of the groups, yet in no case were absolute control values achieved. It was concluded that antagonists alone are not helpful in mobilizing the mercury as well as producing a recovery in the biochemical lesions induced in the CNS.
Predictors of change in carotid atherosclerotic plaque inflammation and burden as measured by 18-FDG-PET and MRI, respectively, in the dal-PLAQUE study.	Baseline predictors of response to treatment of patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) with respect to vascular inflammation and atherosclerotic plaque burden are poorly understood. From post hoc analysis of the dal-PLAQUE study (NCT00655473), 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (18-FDG-PET) imaging and carotid black blood magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used to track changes in these vascular parameters. Baseline demographics, imaging, and biomarkers were collected/measured in 130 patients with CHD or CHD risk-equivalents, and imaging follow-up at 6 months (PET) and 24 months (MRI) was performed. Using stepwise linear regression, predictors of change in carotid plaque inflammation by PET [target-to-background ratio (TBR), n = 92] and plaque burden by MRI [wall area (WA) and total vessel area (TVA), n = 89] were determined. Variables with p < 0.05 in multivariable models were considered independently significant. Interleukin-6, systolic blood pressure and standard deviation of wall thickness (WT) at baseline were independently positively associated with 18-FDG uptake (mean of maximum [MeanMax] TBR change over 6 months). Mean of mean TBR, phospholipase A2, apolipoprotein A-I, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein at baseline were independently negatively associated with MeanMax TBR change over 6 months. Mean WT and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity at baseline, and age, were independently associated with change in WA over 24 months. For TVA changes; mean WA and PAI-1 activity at baseline, age, and female gender were independent predictors. These findings may help determine patients most suitable for clinical trials employing plaque inflammation or burden changes as endpoints.
Quantitative renal scintigraphy with technetium-labelled dimercaptosuccinic acid in children]	Separate measurement of renal function is essential in children with urinary tract disease. This can be done satisfactorily by means of kidney scintigraphy with technetium 99m-labelled dimercaptosuccinic acid. A retrospective study of the records of 415 children, which comprised renal function tests, radiology and scintigraphy, confirmed the value of the radioisotope technique. Graphs of height, kidney uptake and kidney uptake density in relation to age were established, showing highly significant correlations with renal function tests and intravenous urography results, but many dissociations were encountered. Separate renal function evaluation by radioisotope scintigraphy seems to be more reliable than evaluation extrapolated from measurement of the cortical areas at intravenous urography. In vesico-ureteral reflux scintigraphy makes it possible to detect reflux nephropathy at an earlier stage than with other methods.
Mobilization of lead over the course of DMSA chelation therapy and long-term efficacy.	An increasing number of factors suggest that a reevaluation of the current use of CaNa2EDTA for elevated Pb body burden is advisable and, further, emphasize the need for alternative safe and efficacious chelating agents. One candidate that appears to have potential is meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA). However, little is known about the pattern of Pb mobilization or redistribution produced by this chelator or about its long-term efficacy, issues that were examined in this study. After a 3- to 4-month exposure to 50 ppm of Pb acetate in drinking water, different groups of rats received an i.p. injection of saline or 25 or 50 mg/kg of DMSA once a day for either 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 days and were sacrificed 24 hr after the final injection. To assess long-term efficacy of the chelator, an additional group of rats received five injections (one per day) of 50 mg/kg of DMSA and were sacrificed 4 months later. Tissue analyses indicated that DMSA mobilized Pb only from soft tissue, with no loss noted from femur and consequently no observable redistribution of Pb. Large decrements in blood, brain and kidney Pb concentrations were noted, with a delayed loss from liver. The effects were not sustained, however, when assessed 4 months later. With respect to redistribution of mobilized Pb to critical organs and magnitude of decline in soft tissue Pb concentration, DMSA appears to be a safe and particularly effective chelator and thus may be a viable alternative to CaNa2EDTA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid in the diagnosis and treatment of lead poisoning.	Lead poisoning remains one of the hazards of industrialized civilization. CaNa2 EDTA and dimercaprol, the usual therapeutic measures, have many side effects and can be given by parenteral route alone. The authors present a case of chronic lead poisoning caused by ingestion of contaminated flour ground in a primitive flour mill. The diagnosis was confirmed by the CaNa2 EDTA provocative test. Dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) was given orally as a further provocation and resulted in an 11-fold increase in urinary lead excretion. A 5-day course of treatment with DMSA was instituted, during which symptoms abated, urinary lead excretion increased and the blood lead level decreased. No side effects were noticed. There has been no relapse over several months of follow-up. The authors conclude that the oral use of DMSA is effective, safe and convenient both as a provocative test in establishing the diagnosis of lead poisoning and as a therapeutic tool.
Death in an adolescent following an overdose of acetaminophen and phenobarbital.	A 13-year-old epileptic girl took an overdose of acetaminophen (Tylenol) and phenobarbital. Hepatic encephalopathy developed and the patient died eight days later. Necropsy revealed extensive centrilobular necrosis of the liver, degeneration of the renal distal tubules, and infarcted and demyelinated foci throughout the white matter of the cerebral cortex. Electron microscopy of intact hepatocytes showed a proliferation of both smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum consistent with enzyme induction from phenobarbital. To our knowledge, this is the first reported death in a child in the United States as a result of acetaminophen and should alert physicians to an expected increase in acetaminophen toxicity as the drug becomes more widely available.
Management of the patient with cystinuria.	Cystinuria is a complex hereditary disorder characterized by excessive urinary excretion of cystine. For the homozygote patient who excretes more than 400 mg per day, recurrent urinary calculus formation can necessitate repeat surgical manipulation with its associated morbidity. This review details the long-term medical management program for the patient with cystinuria and recurrent calculus formation.
Therapeutic efficacy of pantothenic acid preparations in ischemic heart disease patients]	The therapeutic effectiveness of the pantothenic acid drugs: calciipantothenas and pantethine, was studied in 182 patients with coronary heart disease and stable angina of effort. It is shown that both the drugs produce favourable effects on certain parameters of hemodynamics, on the metabolism of lipids, riboflavin and ascorbic acid. It is recommended that the administration of calciipantothenas in a dose of 300 mg/day, during 3 weeks, be included into the combined treatment of coronary patients with no manifest disorders of lipid metabolism. Patients with manifest hyperlipidemia should be administered pantethine in a dose of 500 mg/day.
Protective action of pantetine on the denervated stomach]	Bilateral subdiaphragmal vagotomy was performed in sexually-mature Wistar male rats. To prevent neurodystrophic processes in the stomach mucous membrane some animals were injected pantetine subcutaneously at a dose of 30 mg/kg 5 times daily for 10 days. Pantetine injected to vagotomized animals decreased destructive lesions in the stomach mucous membrane. Enhanced biosynthesis and the inhibition of gastrin and serotonin release from G and Ec cells respectively have been observed. The results obtained substantiate the use of pantetine for the pharmacological correction of postoperative complications in patients after vagotomy.
Large animal normal tissue tolerance with boron neutron capture.	Normal tissue tolerance of boron neutron capture irradiation using borocaptate sodium (NA2B12H11SH) in an epithermal neutron beam was studied.
Acetaminophen toxity.	A case report of an acetaminophen overdose is described, and the toxicity, clinical course and treatment of acetaminophen overdose are discussed. Treatment modalities include removal of the acetaminophen by emesis or gastric lavage, the use of activated charcoal and a saline cathartic. Several antidotes have been proposed, most notably cysteamine and acetylcysteine.
