Simultaneous determination of pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine and N-acetyl-sulfadiazine in plasma for monitoring infants in treatment of congenital toxoplasmosis.	A method for the simultaneous determination of pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine and its metabolite N-acetyl-sulfadiazine in small plasma samples from neonates in treatment for congenital toxoplasmosis has been developed. In this method only 25 microl of plasma is used and a simple sample preparation based on protein precipitation and centrifugation provides highly reliable data as the recovery is about 100% and the precision is good. The analysis is performed using high performance liquid chromatography with UV and mass spectrometric (MS) detection. Pyrimethamine was found to give a linear response using MS detection in the range 0.02-5 microg/ml. Sulfadiazine and its metabolite N-acetyl-sulfadiazine were preferably analysed by UV at 269 nm in the concentration ranges 0.2-200 microg/ml for sulfadiazine and 0.2-50 microg/ml for N-acetyl-sulfadiazine.
Simple high-pressure liquid chromatographic determination of trisulfapyrimidines in human serum.	A simple and rapid high-pressure liquid chromatographic method was developed for the determination of sulfadiazine, sulfamerazine, and sulfamethazine in human serum. After the trichloroacetic acid precipitation of the serum proteins, an aliquot of the supernate is injected into a high-pressure liquid chromatograph equipped with a reversed-phase microparticulate column and a fixed wavelength UV detector. For each of the three components of trisulfapyrimidines, a linear calibration curve was observed in the 1-30-microgram/ml range, with the precision of the assay estimated to be +/- 2% (RSD). Preliminary pharmacokinetic data are also presented.
Plasma protein carbamylation and decreased acidic drug protein binding in uremia.	The effects of in vitro carbamylation of plasma with potassium cyanate on drug-protein binding have been investigated. Potassium cyanate added to samples of normal plasma and incubated for 30 to 150 min induced time-related plasma protein carbamylation. Carbamylation of plasma did not influence quinidine protein binding, but resulted in decreased salicylate binding. The increased free fraction of salicylate in plasma correlated with the degree of carbamylation of plasma proteins (r = 0.99; p less than 0.001). Plasma from patients with chronic renal disease showed varying degrees of plasma protein carbamylation, correlating with the values of free plasma salicylate (r = 0.80; p less than 0.05). Scatchard plots for sulfadiazine binding in plasma from patients with uremia and in normal plasma carbamylated in vitro with potassium cyanate showed changes in the 2 groups when compared with those in normal individuals. If cyanate is produced in vivo from urea in patients with uremia, plasma protein carbamylation may play a role in the decreased plasma protein binding of some acidic drugs.
