Stem domains of heparan sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase are required for Golgi localization, oligomer formation and enzyme activity.	Heparan sulfate O-sulfotransferases catalyze the O-sulfation of the glucosamine and uronic acid residues of heparan sulfate, thereby determining the binding sites for ligands necessary for important biological functions such as the formation of morphogen gradients and growth factor signaling. Here we investigated the localization of the three heparan sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase (HS6ST) isoforms and the mechanism of their localization. All three GFP-tagged HS6STs localized in the Golgi apparatus. C-5 epimerase and HS2ST have been shown to form complexes that facilitate their localization in the Golgi but we found that the absence of HS2ST did not alter the localization of any of the HS6STs. Neither the forced expression of HS2ST in the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the deletion of most of the lumenal domain nor increasing the length of the transmembrane domain had any effect on the localization of HS6STs. However, deletions in the stem region did affect the Golgi localization of the HS6STs and also reduced their sulfotransferase activity and oligomer formation. These findings suggest that the stem region of HS6ST plays an important role in normal functioning, including the transit of HS6ST to the Golgi apparatus and maintaining the active conformation essential for enzyme activity.
cDNA cloning, functional expression, and characterization of chicken sulfotransferases belonging to the SULT1B and SULT1C families.	A search of the chicken expressed sequence tag (EST) database identified 2 cDNA clones that appeared to represent members of the SULT1B and SULT1C enzyme families. These cDNAs were fully sequenced and found to contain full-length inserts. Phylogenetic analysis of the derived amino acid sequences clearly placed them as the first members of the chicken SULT1B and SULT1C families, respectively, to be identified, and we propose they be named SULT1B1 and SULT1C1. (CHICK)SULT1B1 shares approximately 60% amino acid sequence identity with mammalian SULT1B enzymes, whereas the closest neighbor to (CHICK)SULT1C1 was the ortholog (RAT)SULT1C1, with 68% identity. We cloned these cDNAs into the bacterial expression vectors from the pET series. Transformed Escherichia coli cells strongly expressed the recombinant proteins. Purification of the recombinant enzymes from E. coli was accomplished by a three-step procedure involving ammonium sulfate precipitation, anion exchange chromatography, and affinity chromatography. The purified enzymes displayed subunit molecular weights of approximately 35,000Da on SDS-PAGE, as predicted, and were both able to sulfate a wide range of compounds, including xenobiotics and endogenous substrates such as iodothyronines. Detailed kinetic analysis showed SULT1C1 was more prolific in that it was able to sulfate dopamine, tyramine, and apomorphine, which SULT1B1 was not. 2-Bromophenol was the best substrate for both enzymes. We also raised antibodies against these proteins, which were able to detect the SULTs by ELISA, and which were able to strongly inhibit the recombinant enzymes. This is the first detailed characterization of sulfotransferases from the chicken, and it demonstrates that the avian and mammalian SULT1 enzymes are closely related in both structure and function.
Desulfoglucosinolate sulfotransferases from Arabidopsis thaliana catalyze the final step in the biosynthesis of the glucosinolate core structure.	The phytotoxin coronatine is a structural analog of octadecanoid signaling molecules, which are well known mediators of plant defense reactions. To isolate novel coronatine-regulated genes from Arabidopsis thaliana, differential mRNA display was performed. Transcript levels of CORI-7 (coronatine induced-7) were rapidly and transiently increased in coronatine-treated plants, and the corresponding cDNA was found to encode the sulfotransferase AtST5a. Likewise, upon wounding, an immediate and transient increase in AtST5a mRNA levels could be observed in both locally wounded and unwounded (systemic) leaves. Furthermore, application of octadecanoids and ethylene as compounds involved in plant wound defense reactions resulted in AtST5a gene activation, whereas pathogen defense-related signals (yeast elicitor and salicylic acid) were inactive. AtST5a and its close homologs AtST5b and AtST5c were purified as His6-tagged proteins from Escherichia coli. The three enzymes were shown to catalyze the final step in the biosynthesis of the glucosinolate (GS) core structure, the sulfation of desulfoglucosinolates (dsGSs). They accept a broad range of dsGSs as substrates. However, in a competitive situation, AtST5a clearly prefers tryptophan- and phenylalanine-derived dsGSs, whereas long chain dsGSs derived from methionine are the preferred substrates of AtST5b and AtST5c. Treatment of Arabidopsis plants with low concentrations of coronatine resulted in an increase in the amounts of specific GSs, primarily glucobrassicin and neoglucobrassicin. Hence, it is suggested that AtST5a is the sulfotransferase responsible for the biosynthesis of tryptophan-derived GSs in vivo.
A small-molecule switch for Golgi sulfotransferases.	The study of glycan function is a major frontier in biology that could benefit from small molecules capable of perturbing carbohydrate structures on cells. The widespread role of sulfotransferases in modulating glycan function makes them prime targets for small-molecule modulators. Here, we report a system for conditional activation of Golgi-resident sulfotransferases using a chemical inducer of dimerization. Our approach capitalizes on two features shared by these enzymes: their requirement of Golgi localization for activity on cellular substrates and the modularity of their catalytic and localization domains. Fusion of these domains to the proteins FRB and FKBP enabled their induced assembly by the natural product rapamycin. We applied this strategy to the GlcNAc-6-sulfotransferases GlcNAc6ST-1 and GlcNAc6ST-2, which collaborate in the sulfation of L-selectin ligands. Both the activity and specificity of the inducible enzymes were indistinguishable from their WT counterparts. We further generated rapamycin-inducible chimeric enzymes comprising the localization domain of a sulfotransferase and the catalytic domain of a glycosyltransferase, demonstrating the generality of the system among other Golgi enzymes. The approach provides a means for studying sulfate-dependent processes in cellular systems and, potentially, in vivo.
The activities of several detoxication enzymes are differentially induced by juices of garden cress, water cress and mustard in human HepG2 cells.	It has been previously demonstrated in a human-derived hepatoma cell line (HepG2) that juices from cruciferous vegetables protect against the genotoxicity caused by dietary carcinogens. HepG2 cells possess different enzymes involved in the biotransformation of xenobiotics. Therefore, we investigated the effect of cruciferous juices on the activities of CYP 1A and several phase II enzymes in this cell model. For each experiment, 1 x 10(6) cells were seeded on Petri dishes. After 2 days, the juices (0.5-8 microl/ml of culture medium) were added for 48 h prior to cell harvesting. The addition of juice from water cress (Nasturtium officinalis R. Br) significantly increased the activities of ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase at high doses only and NAD(P)H-quinone reductase in a dose-dependent manner (1.8- and 5-fold, respectively). The addition of juice from garden cress (Lepidum sativum L.) significantly increased the activities of NAD(P)H-quinone reductase and UDP-glucuronosyl-transferase with a maximal effect around the dose of 2 microl/ml juice (1.4- and 1.2-fold, respectively) while the other enzymes were not altered. Mustard (Sinapis alba L.) juice increased the activities of NAD(P)H-quinone reductase (2.6-fold at the dose of 8 microl/ml), and N-acetyl-transferase (1.4-fold at the dose of 8 microl/ml) in a dose-dependent manner while a maximal induction of UDP-glucuronosyl-transferase was obtained with a dose of 2 microl/ml (1.8-fold). These observations show that the three juices have different induction profiles: only water cress acted as a bifunctional inducer by enhancing both phase I and phase II enzymes. As a consequence, each juice may preferentially inhibit the genotoxicity of specific compounds.
All-trans retinoic acid induction of sulfotransferases.	All-trans retinoic acid is the bioactive form of vitamin A (retinol). Retinoids have been used clinically as therapeutic agents against a number of cancers. Retinoids have been reported to induce the phase I drug metabolizing enzymes, cytochrome P-450s. In contrast, effects of retinoids on sulfotransferases have not been as well studied. The present investigation evaluates the role of retinoic acid on the expression of aryl sulfotransferase IV and hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase a in male and female Sprague-Dawley rat liver and intestine. Cultured human hepatic carcinoma cells (Hep G2) and intestinal carcinoma cells (Caco-2) were also used to study retinoic acid's effect on simple phenol sulfating sulfotransferase, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferase and oestrogen sulfotransferase. Enzyme assay and Western blot were used to determine sulfotransferase protein expression. Retinoic acid induced aryl sulfotransferase IV in liver of female rats and sulfotransferase a in liver of male rats. Intestinal rat aryl sulfotransferase IV and sulfotransferase a in male rats and intestinal aryl sulfotransferase IV in female rats were also induced after retinoic acid treatment. In Hep G2 and Caco-2 cells, retinoic acid differentially induced the three human sulfotransferase isoforms. In general, intestinal sulfotransferases were found to be more responsive than hepatic sulfotransferases to retinoic acid treatment. mRNA expressions were investigated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction with gene specific primers. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction results are in good agreement with enzyme activity and Western blot results. This suggests that retinoic acid induction of sulfotransferases is at the transcriptional level.
Involvement of SULT1A3 in elevated sulfation of 4-hydroxypropranolol in Hep G2 cells pretreated with beta-naphthoflavone.	Pretreatment of Hep G2 cells with beta-naphthoflavone (BNF 1-25microM) significantly increased cytosolic sulfation activities of 4-hydroxypropranolol (4-OH-PL) racemate. The profile was similar to those of sulfations towards dopamine and triiodothyronine in the same cytosolic fractions. Kinetic studies of 4-OH-PL sulfation in Hep G2 cytosolic fractions revealed that V(max) values increased but apparent K(m) values remained unchanged following the BNF pretreatment. Among five recombinant human SULT isoforms (SULT1A1, -1A3, -1B1, -1E1 and -2A1) examined, only SULT2A1 did not show 4-OH-PL sulfation activities under the conditions used. SULT1A3 and -1E1 exhibited an enantioselectivity of 4-OH-R-PL sulfation>4-OH-S-PL sulfation, which agreed with that of BNF-pretreated Hep G2 cells as well as of nontreated cells, whereas SULT1A1 and -1B1 showed a reversed enantioselectivity (R<S). In kinetic studies of 4-OH-PL sulfations by four kinds of human SULT isoforms, apparent K(m) values for SULT1A3 were the lowest, and the parameters were close to those of Hep G2 cytosolic fractions. Real time RT-PCR using TaqMan probes demonstrated that the mRNA levels of SULT1A3 increased following BNF pretreatment, which paralleled the results from Western blotting showing the elevated levels of SULT1A3 proteins. These results suggest that the induction of SULT1A3 is mainly responsible for the elevated 4-OH-PL sulfation activities following the pretreatment of Hep G2 cells with BNF.
Xenobiotic- and vitamin D-responsive induction of the steroid/bile acid-sulfotransferase Sult2A1 in young and old mice: the role of a gene enhancer in the liver chromatin.	The xenobiotic-activated nuclear receptors PXR (pregnane X receptor) and CAR (constitutive androstane receptor) and the vitamin D(3)-activated nuclear receptor VDR regulate steroid and xenobiotic metabolism by inducing the phase I cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, phase II conjugating transferases, and the phase III transporters, which mediate the efflux of water-soluble lipid metabolites from cells. Metabolic stress due to the deviant expression of steroid- and xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes is known to have severe health consequences including accelerated aging, and increased expression of these enzymes is associated with extended longevity [Gachon, F, Olela, FF, Schaad, O, Descombes, P and Schibler, U, 2006. The circadian PAR-domain basic leucine zipper transcription factors DBP, TEF, and HLF modulate basal and inducible xenobiotic detoxification. 4, 25-36.; McElwee, JJ, Schuster, E, Blanc, E, Thomas, JH and Gems, D, 2004. Shared Transcriptional Signature in Caenorhabditis elegans Dauer Larvae and Long-lived daf-2 Mutants Implicates Detoxification System in Longevity Assurance. J. Biol. Chem., 279, 44533-43.]. Information on the similarities and dissimilarities in drug metabolism between the young and old, as may be uncovered by studying aging regulation of the genes relevant to steroid and xenobiotic metabolism, is likely to have clinical significance. In this report, we examined the VDR- and PXR-mediated gene induction of the phase II sulfotransferase Sult2A1 in the livers of 4-month- and 20-month-old mice. Sult2A1 converts bile acids, steroids and a number of drugs to the corresponding sulfated metabolites, which are readily eliminated from the body due to increased water solubility. In RT-PCR assay, aging did not change the induction of Sult2A1 mRNAs by the hormonally active vitamin D(3) and the catatoxic synthetic steroid PCN (pregnenolone-16alpha-carbonitrile). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) from liver nuclei showed that aging had no effect on the activity of an IR0 enhancer in the Sult2A1 chromatin to recruit VDR, RXR-alpha (retinoid X receptor) and PXR in mice injected with D(3) or PCN. Thus, mice in late life are as competent as those in early life in responding to the hormonal and xenobiotic signaling for Sult2A1 induction. This is the first report describing the role of aging in the functional response of an enhancer in the liver chromatin to the nuclear receptor-dependent signaling.
Cloning and expression of a novel sulfotransferase with unique substrate specificity from Bombyx mori.	We identified a cDNA encoding a putative cytosolic sulfotransferase (SULT) by searching the expressed sequence tag database of Bombyx mori, and subsequently obtained the full-length cDNA for this gene via rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). We designated this gene bmST1, and showed by sequence analysis that it belongs to a novel SULT family. The tissue specificity of bmST1 mRNA expression was examined in fifth instar larvae by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and transcripts were detectable in the silk gland, gut, fat body, and Malpighian tube. A recombinant form of bmST1 was then expressed using a gluthathione S-transferase (GST) gene fusion system, and it was purified from Escherichia coli. Purified bmST1 did not exhibit sulfating activity toward SULT substrates such as 4-nitrophenol, vanillin, hydroxysteroids, or monoamines. Surprisingly, however, recombinant bmST1 showed considerable activity toward 4-nitrocatechol and also gallate esters, although the catechins are not sulfated by this enzyme.
Sulf loss influences N-, 2-O-, and 6-O-sulfation of multiple heparan sulfate proteoglycans and modulates fibroblast growth factor signaling.	Sulf1 and Sulf2 are two heparan sulfate 6-O-endosulfatases that regulate the activity of multiple growth factors, such as fibroblast growth factor and Wnt, and are essential for mammalian development and survival. In this study, the mammalian Sulfs were functionally characterized using overexpressing cell lines, in vitro enzyme assays, and in vivo Sulf knock-out cell models. Analysis of subcellular Sulf localization revealed significant differences in enzyme secretion and detergent solubility between the human isoforms and their previously characterized quail orthologs. Further, the activity of the Sulfs toward their native heparan sulfate substrates was determined in vitro, demonstrating restricted specificity for S-domain-associated 6S disaccharides and an inability to modify transition zone-associated UA-GlcNAc(6S). Analysis of heparan sulfate composition from different cell surface, shed, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored and extracellular matrix proteoglycan fractions of Sulf knock-out cell lines established differential effects of Sulf1 and/or Sulf2 loss on nonsubstrate N-, 2-O-, and 6-O-sulfate groups. These findings indicate a dynamic influence of Sulf deficiency on the HS biosynthetic machinery. Real time PCR analysis substantiated differential expression of the Hs2st and Hs6st heparan sulfate sulfotransferase enzymes in the Sulf knock-out cell lines. Functionally, the changes in heparan sulfate sulfation resulting from Sulf loss were shown to elicit significant effects on fibroblast growth factor signaling. Taken together, this study implicates that the Sulfs are involved in a potential cellular feed-back mechanism, in which they edit the sulfation of multiple heparan sulfate proteoglycans, thereby regulating cellular signaling and modulating the expression of heparan sulfate biosynthetic enzymes.
Drug metabolizing enzyme activities in rat liver epithelial cell lines, hepatocytes and bile duct cells.	P450-dependent mono-oxygenase and conjugating enzyme activities were studied in rat liver epithelial cells (RLEs) and compared to those in hepatocytes and bile duct cells. Various RLE cell lines were investigated since (a) they are suspected to be derived from cells in the lineage from putative pluripotent stem cells to either hepatocytes or bile duct cells, and (b) they may represent targets of chemical carcinogens. Despite considerable variation between lines, common features were recognized. P450-dependent monooxygenase activities (7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase) were undetectable in all RLEs and bile duct cells, and were uninducible by benz(a)anthracene. In contrast, glucuronosyltransferase (GT), sulfotransferase and GSH transferase activities were clearly detectable. Conjugating enzyme activities increased until confluency of the cell cultures was reached. Under the latter conditions, GT activities towards 4-methylumbelliferone or benzo(a)pyrene-3,6-quinol (substrates of a 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible phenol GT) were similar to those found in hepatocytes or bile duct cells. Using a selective cDNA probe, phenol GT mRNA was clearly detectable in RLE1. In contrast, GT activity towards 4-hydroxybiphenyl was much lower than in hepatocytes or bile duct cells (0.04- and 0.03-fold). Sulfotransferase and GSH transferase activities were also roughly comparable to those found in hepatocytes and in bile duct cells. The results suggest that RLEs and bile duct cells exhibit both high conjugating enzyme activities and a lack of P450-dependent mono-oxygenase activities, a pattern resembling the 'toxin-resistance phenotype' found in putative preneoplastic hepatocyte foci and nodules.
Evaluation of resveratrol sensitivities and metabolic patterns in human and rat glioblastoma cells.	To further elucidate the correlation of resveratrol sensitivities with biotransformation activities of human and rat glioblastoma cells for personalized anti-glioblastoma therapy.
Cloning and expression of cDNA encoding human placental estrogen sulfotransferase.	Using two oligoprimers derived from the bovine placental estrogen sulfotransferase sequence, we amplified a probe for human placental estrogen sulfotransferase. Using this probe to screen a human placental cDNA library constructed in lambda gt11, we isolated a cDNA clone of 1.3 kb encoding human estrogen sulfotransferase. DNA analysis predicts a protein of 295 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 34,199. Alignment of the amino acid sequence with other sulfotransferases indicates that human placental estrogen sulfotransferase shares 68.6, 68.2 and 65.9% similarity with bovine placental, guinea pig adrenocortical, and rat liver estrogen sulfotransferase, respectively. It shows also 95.6, 57.6, 85.3, and 54.2% similarity to human phenol, human DHEA, rat phenol, and rat hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase, respectively. Transfection of expression vectors encoding human estrogen sulfotransferase and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) sulfotransferase in human adrenal adenocarcinoma SW-13 cells indicates that estrogen sulfotransferase transforms estrone more specifically, whereas DHEA sulfotransferase is more specific for DHEA and pregnenolone.
Human estrogen sulfotransferase gene (STE): cloning, structure, and chromosomal localization.	Sulfation is an important pathway in the metabolism of estrogens. We recently cloned a human liver estrogen sulfotransferase (EST) cDNA. We have now determined the structure and chromosomal localization of the EST gene, STE, as a step toward molecular genetic studies of the regulation of EST in humans. STE spans approximately 20 kb and consists of 8 exons, ranging in length from 95 to 181 bp. The locations of most exon-intron splice junctions within STE are identical to those found in a human phenol ST (PST) gene, STM, and in a rat PST gene. In addition, the locations of five STE introns are also conserved in the human dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) ST gene, STD. The 5'-flanking region of STE contains one CCAAT and two TATA sequences. The location of one of the TATA box elements is in excellent agreement with the site of transcription initiation as determined by 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends. STE was mapped to human chromosome 4q13.1 by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Cloning and structural characterization of STE will now make it possible to study potential molecular genetic mechanisms involved in the regulation of EST in human tissues.
Restricted integration into genomic DNA following transfection of Chinese-hamster ovary cells with N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulphatase cDNA.	The effect of using different conditions of electroporation for introducing the gene coding for human N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulphatase into Chinese-hamster ovary (CHO) cells has been studied in an effort to increase the yield of recombinant protein. In each case the range of enzyme activities in the medium of transfected cells proved to be similar, with genetic analysis of a higher producer revealing only one gene copy integrated. Hence, allowing for position effects, the number of gene copies stably integrated into the CHO genome of all transfectants presumably was low, potentially a single copy in each. This inability to allow high-copy-number integration may suggest a constraint on the levels of this protein which can be tolerated by the cell.
