Characterization of focal liver lesions with contrast-enhanced low MI real time ultrasound and SonoVue]	SonoVue is a new microbubble ultrasound contrast agent that for the first time allows continuous real time examination during the different phases of contrast enhancement using low transmission power, expressed as mechanical index (MI). This study investigates whether low MI real time phase inversion imaging with SonoVue can improve the characterization of focal liver lesions in comparison to unenhanced sonography and power Doppler sonography.
In vitro validation of an ultrasonic flowmeter in order to measure the functional residual capacity in newborns.	Ultrasonic transit-time airflow meters (UFM) allow simultaneous measurements of volume flow V'(t) and molar mass MM(t) of the breathing gas in the mainstream. Consequently, by using a suitable tracer gas the functional residual capacity (FRC) of the lungs can be measured by a gas wash-in/wash-out technique. The aim of this study was to investigate the in vitro accuracy of a multiple-breath wash-in/wash-out technique for FRC measurements using 4% sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) in air. V'(t) and MM(t) were measured with a Spiroson SCIENTIFIC flowmeter (ECO Medics, CH) with 1.3 ml dead space. Linearity of airflow and MM were tested using different tidal volumes (V(T)) and breathing gases with different O2 and SF6 concentrations. To determine the accuracy of FRC measurements SF6 wash-in and wash-out curves from four mechanical lung models (FRC of 22, 53, 102 and 153 ml) were evaluated by the Spiroson. For each model five measurements were performed with a physiological V(T)/FRC ratio of 0.3 and constant respiratory rate of 30 min(-1). The error of measured V(T) (range 4-60 ml) was <2.5%. There was a strong correlation between the measured and calculated MM of different breathing gases (r = 0.989), and the measuring accuracy was better than 1%. The measured FRC of the four models were 20.3, 49.7, 104.3 and 153.4 ml with a coefficient of variation of 16.5%, 4.5%, 4.9% and 3%. Accordingly, for FRC <100 ml the in vitro accuracy was better than 8% and for FRC >100 ml better than 2.5%. The determination of FRC by MM measurements using the UFM is a simple and cost-effective alternative to conventionally used gas analysers with an acceptable accuracy for many clinical purposes.
Detection of resting myocardial perfusion defects by SonoVue myocardial contrast echocardiography.	SonoVue is a new microbubble contrast agent containing sulfur hexafluoride. We assessed the efficacy of SonoVue myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) to detect resting perfusion abnormalities.
US characterization of focal hepatic lesions with intermittent high-acoustic-power mode and contrast material.	This study was performed to determine whether ultrasound (US) performed with SonoVue, a contrast agent that contains microbubbles filled with sulfur hexafluoride vapor, depicts differential patterns of contrast enhancement in focal hepatic lesions.
Experimental evaluation of a non-linear coded excitation method for contrast imaging.	Previously, we have shown that for a single bubble, using chirps as the excitation signal improves both the linear and the non-linear response. Computer simulations of randomly distributed contrast agent bubbles show an increase of 10-13 dB in response when comparing pulse excitations with chirp excitations that have equal bandwidths and peak amplitudes. Second harmonic compression of simulated bubble echoes with chirp excitation shows low side-lobe levels and limited loss of axial resolution when compared to pulse excitation. Experimental results from water tank measurements with SonoVue contrast agent are in agreement with computer simulations showing increased signal-to-noise ratio and an increase of approximately 12 dB at the second harmonic when comparing pulse and chirp excitation.
Feasibility of 3D harmonic contrast imaging.	Improved endocardial border delineation with the application of contrast agents should allow for less complex and faster tracing algorithms for left ventricular volume analysis. We developed a fast rotating phased array transducer for 3D imaging of the heart with harmonic capabilities making it suitable for contrast imaging. In this study the feasibility of 3D harmonic contrast imaging is evaluated in vitro. A commercially available tissue mimicking flow phantom was used in combination with Sonovue. Backscatter power spectra from a tissue and contrast region of interest were calculated from recorded radio frequency data. The spectra and the extracted contrast to tissue ratio from these spectra were used to optimize the excitation frequency, the pulse length and the receive filter settings of the transducer. Frequencies ranging from 1.66 to 2.35 MHz and pulse lengths of 1.5, 2 and 2.5 cycles were explored. An increase of more than 15 dB in the contrast to tissue ratio was found around the second harmonic compared with the fundamental level at an optimal excitation frequency of 1.74 MHz and a pulse length of 2.5 cycles. Using the optimal settings for 3D harmonic contrast recordings volume measurements of a left ventricular shaped agar phantom were performed. Without contrast the extracted volume data resulted in a volume error of 1.5%, with contrast an accuracy of 3.8% was achieved. The results show the feasibility of accurate volume measurements from 3D harmonic contrast images. Further investigations will include the clinical evaluation of the presented technique for improved assessment of the heart.
High-intensity focused ultrasound for the treatment of liver tumours.	High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) has been investigated as a tool for the treatment of cancer for many decades, but is only now beginning to emerge as a potential alternative to conventional therapies. In recent years, clinical trials have evaluated the clinical efficacy of a number of devices worldwide. In Oxford, UK, we have been using the JC HIFU system (HAIFU Technology Company, Chongqing, PR China) in clinical trials since November 2002. This is the first report of its clinical use outside mainland China. The device is non-invasive, and employs an extracorporeal transducer operating at 0.8-1.6 MHz (aperture 12-15 cm, focal length 9-15 cm), operating clinically at Isp (free field) of 5-15 KWcm(-2). The aims of the trials are to evaluate the safety and performance of the device. Performance is being evaluated through two parallel protocols. One employs radiological assessment of response with the use of follow-up magnetic resonance imaging and microbubble-contrast ultrasound. In the other, histological assessment will be made following elective surgical resection of the HIFU treated tumours. Eleven patients with liver tumours have been treated with HIFU to date. Adverse events include transient pain and minor skin burns. Observed response from the various assessment modalities is discussed.
Tracking of regions-of-interest in myocardial contrast echocardiography.	Analysis of intramyocardial perfusion by contrast echocardiography provides quantitative parameters for the assessment of ischemic disease. This analysis can be achieved by applying an ultrasound (US) burst of high mechanical index to destroy contrast bubbles, measuring various myocardial refilling parameters from the time curves obtained from regions-of-interest (ROIs) within the myocardial wall. To obtain reliable intensity curves, the position of the ROIs must be tracked to compensate for the heart motion along the sequence. In this work, we studied the use of optical flow techniques for ROI repositioning. Two block-matching and one differential technique were evaluated for this purpose. Performance was measured by comparing the result of automatic tracking with results of ROI repositioning by a human expert. This evaluation was carried out on experimental data from animals as well as on sequences from clinical studies. Results are considered to be accurate enough for clinical purposes, and computation times may allow for a real-time processing if incorporated into a US scanner.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound assessment of tissue response to high-intensity focused ultrasound.	We report the use of contrast-enhanced ultrasonography as an immediate means of assessing the clinical response to high-intensity focused ultrasound (US) or HIFU treatment of liver tumours. HIFU is a noninvasive transcutaneous technique for the ablation of tumours that has been shown to destroy tumour vasculature, as well as to cause coagulative necrosis of tumour cells. As a dynamic indicator of tissue perfusion, microbubble contrast agents have already been reported to increase the diagnostic sensitivity of ultrasonography in the detection of liver tumours. This report documents the ability of one i.v. microbubble contrast agent (SonoVue, Bracco, Italy) to delineate the extent of HIFU ablation by comparison of pre- and immediately posttreatment perfusion within the target tumour. Observed changes were seen to correlate well with the ablated volume on histologic evaluation of the treated volume. This is the first time that this imaging technique has been reported in this setting.
Contrast-enhanced intraoperative ultrasonography in surgery for liver tumors.	IOUS is the most accurate diagnostic technique for assessing focal liver lesions, but still has some drawbacks. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound examination done intraoperatively (CE-IOUS), using second generation contrast agents (SonoVue, Bracco-Imaging, Milan, Italy), seems able to overcome those aforementioned lacking aspects of IOUS. In cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), CE-IOUS provides information about tumor vascularity which are useful for nodules differentiation: this should improve the surgical radicality. Furthermore, two different pattern of enhancement are also recognizable at CE-IOUS in those HCC nodules depicted preoperatively: one of them has no similarity with that observed at computed tomography (CT). In patients who undergo surgery for colorectal liver metastases, CE-IOUS seems to improve the sensitivity of IOUS to small, hypoechoic lesions, reducing the risk to down-stage the disease and enhancing the rate of treatment with curative intent. In conclusion, IOUS accuracy is improved by CE-IOUS with an impact on surgical strategy either for primary than for metastatic tumors. Furthermore, a wider experience with vascular enhancement patterns at CE-IOUS could provide new classification for liver lesions.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound for extrahepatic lesions: preliminary experience.	Ultrasound imaging (US) is a convenient, inexpensive and non-invasive investigation. Its use is limited by low sensitivity in the detection of a number of parenchymal lesions, especially those produced by trauma, such as infarctions. Contrast enhancement with SonoVue improves the sensitivity of ultrasound in the detection and characterization of focal liver lesions to such an extent, that it may replace computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Preliminary experience suggests that SonoVue-enhanced sonography may be useful in the detection of lesions in which blood flow is severely reduced as compared to surrounding parenchyma, such as infarctions, lacerations, hematomas, necrotic tissue and non-vascular cysts, especially in the spleen, kidney and pancreas. This technique can also rule out occlusion of the superior mesenteric, splenic and portal veins, and dilation of the biliary tree. Clinical trials comparing contrast-enhanced sonography with contrast-enhanced computed tomography are warranted to establish the role of this inexpensive and non-invasive technique in the routine work-up of patients with abdominal trauma or presenting with sudden flank pain.
Containment testing of isolation rooms.	Results from the tracer containment testing of four 'state-of-the-art' airborne infection isolation rooms, in a new hospital, are presented. A testing technician exited an isolation room several minutes after a small quantity of tracer gas was injected over the patient bed in that room. Easily measurable tracer gas concentrations were then found in the anterooms outside the patient rooms and corridor outside the isolation room suites. Containment factors for the isolation rooms and dilution factors in the anterooms and corridor were calculated, based on the measured tracer concentrations. These results indicate the desirability of evidence-based design standards and guidelines for assessing performance of airborne infection isolation rooms. The study also demonstrates that the tracer testing procedure yields comparable results for equivalent isolation room suites, suggesting good reproducibility of the testing method.
Development of evaluation procedures for local exhaust ventilation for United States postal service mail-processing equipment.	Researchers from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) have conducted several evaluations of local exhaust ventilation (LEV) systems for the United States Postal Service (USPS) since autumn 2001 when (a) terrorist(s) employed the mail system for acts of bioterrorism. As a part of the USPS 2002 Emergency Preparedness Plan, the development and installation of LEV onto USPS mail-processing equipment can reduce future exposures to operators from potentially hazardous contaminants, such as anthrax, which might be emitted during the processing of mail. This article describes how NIOSH field testing led to the development of recommended testing procedures for evaluations of LEV capture efficiency for mail-processing equipment, including tracer gas measurements, smoke release observations, air velocity measurements, and decay-rate testing under access hoods.
Evaluation of lymph node perfusion using continuous mode harmonic ultrasonography with a second-generation contrast agent.	To evaluate the contribution of continuous mode contrast-enhanced harmonic ultrasonography (CE-HUS) with a second-generation contrast agent to the characterization of superficial lymphadenopathies with respect to conventional ultrasonographic techniques (B-mode and power Doppler).
The feasibility and usefulness of contrast exercise echocardiography for the assessment of left ventricular function in master athletes.	The number of competitive master athletes (MA, over 40 years) has been rising. Since the incidence of coronary artery disease (CAD) is increasing in this population, cardiovascular pre-participation screening, including a maximum exercise test, is recommended. In this context the addition of contrast to echo could be useful because wall thickening and motion are better markers of myocardial function when the whole endocardial border (EB) is visible.
Contrast-enhanced sonography for diagnosis of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.	We describe the contrast-specific sonography features of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, and we hypothesize that this technique would be useful for emergency imaging of patients with suspected aneurysm rupture.
Imaging of focal liver lesions: low-mechanical-index real-time ultrasonography with SonoVue.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of a contrast-enhanced contrast-specific ultrasonographic technique with a low mechanical index for characterization of focal liver lesions.
X-ray vision of fuel sprays.	With brilliant synchrotron X-ray sources, microsecond time-resolved synchrotron X-ray radiography and tomography have been used to elucidate the detailed three-dimensional structure and dynamics of high-pressure high-speed fuel sprays in the near-nozzle region. The measurement allows quantitative determination of the fuel distribution in the optically impenetrable region owing to the multiple scattering of visible light by small atomized fuel droplets surrounding the jet. X-radiographs of the jet-induced shock waves prove that the fuel jets become supersonic under appropriate injection conditions and that the quantitative analysis of the thermodynamic properties of the shock waves can also be derived from the most direct measurement. In other situations where extremely axial-asymmetric sprays are encountered, mass deconvolution and cross-sectional fuel distribution models can be computed based on the monochromatic and time-resolved X-radiographic images collected from various rotational orientations of the sprays. Such quantitative analysis reveals the never-before-reported characteristics and most detailed near-nozzle mass distribution of highly transient fuel sprays.
Dynamics of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase gene expression in the coccolithophorid Coccolithus pelagicus during a tracer release experiment in the Northeast Atlantic.	We report a pronounced diel rhythm in ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) gene expression in a natural population of the coccolithophorid Coccolithus pelagicus sampled during a Lagrangian experiment in the Northeast Atlantic. Our observations show that there is greater heterogeneity in the temporal regulation of RubisCO expression among planktonic chromophytes than has been reported hitherto.
Pressure-dependent attenuation with microbubbles at low mechanical index.	It has previously been shown that the attenuation of ultrasound (US) by microbubble contrast agents is dependent on acoustic pressure (Chen et al. 2002). Although previous studies have modelled the pressure-dependence of attenuation in single bubbles, this paper investigates this subject by considering a bulk volume of bubbles together with other linear attenuators. Specifically, a new pressure-dependent attenuation model for an inhomogeneous volume of attenuators is proposed. In this model, the effect of the attenuation on US propagation is considered. The model was validated using experimental measurements on the US contrast agent Sonovue. The results indicate, at low acoustic pressures, a linear relationship between the attenuation of Sonovue, measured in dB, and the insonating acoustic pressure.
Comparison of contrast-enhanced low mechanical index (Low MI) sonography and unenhanced B-mode sonography for the differentiation between synovitis and joint effusion in patients with rheumatoid arthritis]	To test whether contrast-enhanced low mechanical index (low MI) sonography is superior to non enhanced B-Mode sonography in differentiating synovitis and joint effusion.
Convective and diffusive gas transport in canine intrapulmonary airways.	The significance of convective and diffusive gas transport in the respiratory system was assessed from the response of combined inert gas and particle boluses inhaled into the conducting airways. Particles, considered as "nondiffusing gas," served as tracers for convection and two inert gases with widely different diffusive characteristics (He and SF6) as tracers for convection and diffusion. Six-milliliter boluses labeled with monodisperse di-2-ethylhexyl sebacate droplets of 0.86-microns aerodynamic diameter, 2% He, and 2% SF6 were inspired by three anesthetized mechanically ventilated beagle dogs to volumetric lung depths up to 170 ml. Mixing between inspired and residual air caused dispersion of the inspired bolus, which was quantified in terms of the bolus half-width. Dispersion of particles increased with increasing lung depth to which the boluses were inhaled. The increase followed a power law with exponents less than 0.5 (mean 0.39), indicating that the effect of convective mixing per unit volume was reduced with depth. Within the pulmonary dead space, the behavior of the inert gases He and SF6 was similar to that of the particles, suggesting that gas transport was almost solely due to convection. Beyond the dead space, dispersion of He and SF6 increased more rapidly than dispersion of particles, indicating that diffusion became significant. The gas and particle bolus technique offers a suitable approach to differential analysis of gas transport in intrapulmonary airways of lungs.
The use of tracer gases to determine dust dispersion patterns and ventilation parameters in a mineral processing plant.	A study was conducted in a fluorspar milling plant to assess the effectiveness of tracer gases as a reliable supplement to conventional air-monitoring and ventilation measurements. In the course of this study, a tracer gas was used as a surrogate substance to analyze the direction and the rate of spread of contaminants from various potential dust production points in the plant. Time-weighted average and continuous mineral dust concentrations were measured in several areas of the plant; these results were compared and correlated with steady-state tracer gas concentrations in the mill. Time-weighted average dust concentrations varied between 0.18 and 0.57 mg/m3 for total dust and 0.04 and 0.20 mg/m3 for quartz respirable dust, depending on the location. Correlation of these values with steady-state tracer gas concentrations yielded linear relationships with correlation coefficients (R2) of 0.95 and 0.87, respectively, for total and quartz dust. Results from this study, therefore, indicate that tracer gases may help model the spread of airborne respirable dust from point sources. These tracer gas releases also allowed the simultaneous quantitative determination of air residence times and contaminant clearance times from the building. Hence, tracer gases will help industrial hygienists obtain useful data with respect to building ventilation.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasonography to detect liver metastases : a prospective trial to compare transcutaneous unenhanced and contrast-enhanced ultrasonography in patients undergoing laparotomy.	The advent of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) has called into question the efficacy of standard ultrasonographic techniques. In this study, we evaluated B-mode and color-duplex imaging and CEUS in the detection of liver metastases, using intraoperative and histological findings as a reference.
Low-fat angiomyolipoma of the liver studied with contrast-enhanced ultrasound and multidetector computed tomography.	We report the case of a 30-year-old woman with persistent pain at the right hypochondrium, relapsing fever, and normal serum tests. Ultrasound showed a hyperechoic inhomogeneous mass; following sulfur hexafluoride injection, uniform enhancement at 14-16 s and rapid wash-out at 26 s was found. Multidetector computed tomography showed an inhomogeneously hypodense mass, with no detectable negative density values, characterized by inhomogeneous enhancement at the arterial phase and wash-out at the portal phase. Histopathology demonstrated a hepithelioid angiomyolipoma with a poor fatty component. This diagnosis should always be considered in the presence of a very rapid wash-out after intravenous contrast injection. However, a hepatocellular carcinoma cannot be excluded and the final diagnosis of low-fat angiomyolipoma must be pathologically proved based on immunohistochemistry.
Reversible microvascular dysfunction coupled with persistent myocardial dysfunction: implications for post-infarct left ventricular remodelling.	Recent studies have shown that microvascular dysfunction after myocardial infarction is a dynamic phenomenon.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound in detection and follow-up of an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm with aorto-caval fistula and endovascular treatment.	An aorto-caval fistula is a rare complication of a symptomatic or ruptured infrarenal aortic aneurysm having a frequency of 3-6%. Patients typically present with clinical signs of diffuse abdominal pain associated with increasing venous congestion and tachycardia, rapid cardiopulmonary decompensation with acute dyspnea, and an audible machinerylike bruit. Perioperative mortality is high, ranging from 20% to 60%. We report a case of an endovascular aortic repair in a patient with a symptomatic infrarenal aortic aneurysm and an aorto-caval fistula. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound seems to be a promising new diagnostic option for the diagnosis and preoperative treatment planning for patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms with rupture into the inferior vena cava. It is in addition to computed tomography angiography. It might allow a more rapid and noninvasive diagnosis, especially for patients in intensive care because of its bedside availability. Because the examination is dynamic, additional information about blood flow between the aorta and inferior cava vein can be evaluated.
Ultrasound assessment of vascularization of the thickened terminal ileum wall in Crohn's disease patients using a low-mechanical index real-time scanning technique with a second generation ultrasound contrast agent.	To prospectively evaluate the vascularization of the thickened terminal ileum in Crohn's disease patients using contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and to compare the clinical activity measured by the Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) with the CEUS findings.
Evaluation of the vascular architecture of hepatocellular carcinoma by micro flow imaging: pathologic correlation.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate micro flow imaging (MFI) in depicting the vascular architecture of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the correlation between pathologic differentiation and the intratumoral vascular architecture pattern.
Contrast-enhanced sonography of the kidney.	Contrast-enhanced sonography (CEUS) is a recently introduced, promising technique in the evaluation of the kidney. CEUS allows real-time assessment of normal and abnormal renal perfusions. As a consequence of the macrocirculation analysis allowed by Doppler techniques, it is possible to obtain real-time information about microcirculation. US contrast media are not nephrotoxic and can be employed safely, even in subjects with impaired renal function. There are several clinical scenarios where CEUS may play the role of a low-cost, scarcely invasive tool, including renal tumors (with special reference to small, indeterminate masses, i.e., differentiation between carcinoma and angiomyolipoma), renal atypical cystic masses (i.e., differentiation of malignant from benign cysts and follow-up of cystic lesions managed conservatively), renal infarction, renal infections, and renal injuries. In addition, CEUS can be useful in the assessment of renal pseudotumors (including any case with possible renal mass on conventional US imaging) and has been employed in radiofrequency ablation guidance. This pictorial review illustrates the CEUS findings recognizable in a wide spectrum of renal disorders and discusses the strengths and limitations of renal imaging with CEUS.
The role of CnTI-SonoVue in the diagnosis of ovarian masses with papillary projections: a preliminary study.	To describe sonographically the distribution patterns of a second-generation contrast agent in the microcirculation of unilocular and multilocular ovarian masses with papillary projections, and to investigate whether qualitative evaluation of the passage of the contrast agent can improve the performance of sonography in distinguishing between benign and malignant masses with papillary projections.
Analysis of neuroendocrine tumour metastases in the liver using contrast enhanced ultrasonography.	Imaging of liver tumours might be improved by contrast-enhanced ultrasonography, which allows much better demonstration of the microvascular system. The aim of this study was to assess the sonographic morphology and vascularity of neuroendocrine liver metastases.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound of histologically proven liver hemangiomas.	Differentiation of small and atypical hemangiomas from other hepatic masses using imaging methods can be difficult, especially in patients with underlying malignant disease. Therefore, contrast-enhanced ultrasound was assessed in patients with histologically confirmed hemangiomas with respect to contrast-enhancing kinetics and tumor characteristics. In 58 patients with indeterminate hepatic lesions demonstrated with at least 2 imaging methods (ultrasound/computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging), ultrasound-guided liver biopsy revealed hemangioma. In all patients a hepatic neoplasm had been suspected because of underlying malignant disease (n=41), liver cirrhosis (n=15), or growth of the lesion (n=2). All patients underwent nonlinear, low mechanical index real-time contrast-enhanced ultrasound scanning with bolus injections of SonoVue. Peripheral nodular arterial enhancement was detected in 43 patients (74%), whereas the typical metastatic peripheral rim-like enhancement was not observed at all. Strong homogenous arterial enhancement was found in 9 of 58 (16%) patients. In 6 patients (10%), the arterial contrast enhancement pattern could not be determined because of the very small size of the lesions or fibrotic nodules. Forty-five (78%) of the hemangiomas showed homogenous centripetal filling within 180 seconds.
Diagnosis of liver cirrhosis by transit-time analysis at contrast-enhanced ultrasonography.	The aims of this prospective study were to evaluate analysis of sulfur-hexafluoride-filled microbubble contrast agent (Sonovue) transit times as a tool for differentiating liver cirrhosis from the noncirrhotic stage of liver disease and to compare its performance with that of conventional B-mode and Doppler ultrasonography (US).
Evaluation of focal fatty infiltration of the liver using color Doppler and contrast-enhanced sonography.	To investigate the vascular characteristics of focal fatty infiltration (FFI) in the liver using color Doppler sonography (CDUS) and contrast-enhanced sonography (CEUS).
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound is helpful in the differentiation of malignant and benign breast lesions.	To evaluate the significance of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) examination in differential diagnosis of malignant and benign breast lesions.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma: differential diagnosis with contrast-enhanced ultrasound.	We assessed the usefulness of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in the differentiation of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Preoperative sentinel node identification with ultrasound using microbubbles in patients with breast cancer.	Sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy is the standard procedure for axillary staging in early breast cancer. Lymphatic imaging after peritumoral microbubble injection has been described in animal models. The aim of this study was to identify and localize SLNs preoperatively by contrast-enhanced sonography after intradermal injection of microbubbles in patients with breast cancer.
Noninvasive analysis of portal pressure by contrast-enhanced sonography in patients with cirrhosis.	Free portal pressure measurement is a reliable method for assessment of portal pressure in patients with cirrhosis. Intrahepatic circulatory time analysis of a sonographic contrast agent can assess liver fibrosis and its severity. The purposes of this pilot study were to assess the correlation between the intrahepatic circulatory time and free portal pressure and to assess whether intrahepatic circulatory time analysis can be used to predict portal venous pressure severity.
Prostate cancer ablation with transrectal high-intensity focused ultrasound: assessment of tissue destruction with contrast-enhanced US.	To assess contrast material-enhanced ultrasonographic (US) findings seen after high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation of prostate cancer and correlate the US findings with post-HIFU biopsy findings.
Contrast enhanced sonographic assessment of feeding vessels as a discriminator between malignant vs. benign focal splenic lesions.	Contrast-enhanced sonography was conducted in 17 confirmed focal splenic lesions (five malignant, 12 benign). Relative echogenicity changes were used for subjective interpretation of lesion perfusion. A rapid influx of contrast agent, resulting in an increased relative echogenicity of the lesion, followed by a rapid clearance of contrast agent was referred to as early washin/early washout. There were 6/12 benign, and 3/5 malignant lesions characterized by early washin/early washout. Therefore, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for this parameter in differentiating malignant from benign lesions was 60%, 50%, and 53%, respectively. There were 2/12 benign, and 2/5 malignant lesions with persistent hypoperfusion throughout all phases. Therefore, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for malignancy using this criterion were 40%, 83%, and 71%, respectively. However, none of the benign and all malignant lesions were characterized by tortuous and persistently visible feeding vessels. This suggests that interpretation of splenic lesions cannot be performed accurately on the basis of echogenicity or persistent hypoperfusion, but that assessment of vascular tortuosity may be helpful in discriminating between a malignant vs. benign focal splenic lesion.
The application value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic solid-cystic lesions.	To retrospectively determine the accuracy of baseline ultrasound (BUS) and of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic solid-cystic lesions.
Evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma by contrast-enhanced sonography: correlation with pathologic differentiation.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether contrast-enhanced sonography can be used to differentiate histopathologic grades of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Acute outflow obstruction of hepatic veins in rabbits: quantitative analysis of hepatic perfusion with contrast-enhanced sonography.	To compare time-enhancement curve parameters of contrast-enhanced sonography in acute partial hepatic venous outflow obstruction with those of a baseline study.
Interobserver agreement in contrast harmonic endoscopic ultrasound.	Contrast harmonic endoscopic ultrasound (CH-EUS) was recently introduced to clinical practice; its reproducibility among endosonographers is unknown. Our aim was to assess the interobserver agreement (IA) in CH-EUS.
US-guided percutaneous microwave ablation of renal cell carcinoma: intermediate-term results.	To retrospectively review intermediate-term (median, 20.1 months) clinical outcomes after microwave ablation (MWA) of renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
Advanced adenocarcinoma of terminal ileum: an unusual neoplasm revealed by an unusual diagnostic tool.	Terminal ileum adenocarcinoma is a rare tumour. Its incidence or prevalence among the other sites of gastro-intestinal tract is unknown, since it has been only sporadically described. Since contrast enhanced ultrasonography has been recently used to study bowel alterations in the course of neoplastic or inflammatory disorders, we report here a case of a rare tumour (terminal ileum poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma) in which the investigation played a pivotal role to obtain a defined diagnosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS (CASE REPORT): Here we report the case of a 62 year old male patient. Due to intestinal occlusive symptoms and body weight decrease of about 8 Kg, he performed an abdominal computed tomography, intestinal magnetic resonance with double contrast medium, colonoscopy and contrast enhanced ultrasonography using a second generation medium.
Evaluation of abdominal aortic aneurysm after endovascular repair: prospective validation of contrast-enhanced US with a second-generation US contrast agent.	To prospectively assess the accuracy of contrast agent-enhanced (CE) ultrasonography (US) with a second-generation US contrast agent in the detection and classification of endoleaks after endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR), with computed tomographic (CT) angiography as the reference standard.
Comparison of the sulfur hexafluoride tracer and respiration chamber techniques for estimating methane emissions and correction for rectum methane output from dairy cows.	The objectives of the present study were to compare the sulfur hexafluoride (SF₆) and respiration chamber techniques for measuring methane (CH₄) emissions from dairy cows and to determine the proportion of CH₄ that is released through the rectum. Data used were derived from 20 early lactation dairy cows in a 2 × 2 factorial design study for 4 periods with 6 wk/period. The 4 treatment diets consisted of grass silage and 2 levels of concentrate (30 and 60% dry matter basis), with or without yeast supplement. At the end of each period, CH₄ emissions were measured simultaneously using the SF₆ and respiration chamber techniques when cows were housed in chambers. The SF₆ technique was also used when cows were housed in digestibility units (barn location) before and after respiratory chamber measurements (chamber location). The simultaneous measurements in chamber location revealed that CH₄ emission estimates by the SF₆ technique were similar to those by the respiration chamber technique in the first 3 periods, although the SF₆ estimates were significantly higher in period 4. The regression of all data from the 4 periods demonstrated a linear relationship between the SF₆ and respiration chamber measurements for total CH₄ emissions (g/d, R² = 0.69) and for CH₄ emissions per unit of milk yield (g/kg, R² = 0.88), and a quadratic relationship for CH₄ emissions per unit of dry matter intake (g/kg, R² = 0.64). The CH₄ emissions from the rectum were calculated as the difference between CH₄ estimates from the SF₆ technique when cows were housed in respiratory chambers and barn locations, which was 3% of the total CH₄ emissions from the mouth, nostrils, and rectum. The SF₆ estimates in the chamber location accounted for all sources of emissions, whereas those in the barn location, like that in grazing conditions, did not include CH₄ emission from the rectum. Therefore, the SF₆ measurements for grazing cattle should be adjusted for CH₄ emissions from the rectum (3% of total). We conclude that the SF₆ technique is reasonably accurate for estimating CH₄ emissions.
Time-resolved CT angiography for the detection and classification of endoleaks.	To assess the feasibility and diagnostic performance of time-resolved computed tomographic (CT) angiography in the detection and classification of endoleaks after endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) in high-risk patients.
Modeling non-spherical oscillations and stability of acoustically driven shelled microbubbles.	The oscillation and destruction of microbubbles under ultrasound excitation form the basis of contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging and microbubble assisted drug and gene delivery. A typical microbubble has a size of a few micrometers and consists of a gas core encapsulated by a shell. These bubbles can be driven into surface mode oscillations, which not only contribute to the measured acoustic signal but can lead to bubble destruction. Existing models of surface model oscillations have not considered the effects of a bubble shell. In this study a model was developed to study the surface mode oscillations in shelled bubbles. The effects of shell viscosity and elasticity on the surface mode oscillations were modeled using a Boussinesq-Scriven approach. Simulation was conducted using the model with various bubble sizes and driving acoustic pressures. The occurrence of surface modes and the number of ultrasound cycles needed for the occurrence were calculated. The simulation results show a significant difference between shelled bubbles and shell free bubbles. The shelled bubbles have reduced surface mode amplitudes and a narrower bubble size range within which these modes develop compared to shell free bubbles. The clinical implications were also discussed.
Ambient pressure dependence of the ultra-harmonic response from contrast microbubbles.	Sub-harmonic response from ultrasound contrast agent microbubbles has been demonstrated to be an effective modality for noninvasive pressure measurement. In the present study, the dependence of ultra-harmonic response on the ambient overpressure was investigated by both experimental measurements and simulations. In the measurements, the microbubbles were exposed to Gaussian pulses with varied driving frequencies and pulse lengths, at an acoustic pressure of 0.3 MPa. The amplitudes of sub- and ultra-harmonic components were measured when the ambient overpressures varied from 0-25 kPa. At the driving frequency of 1.33 MHz, the ultra-harmonic energy decreased but the sub-harmonic energy increased with the increasing overpressure; while at the driving frequency of 4 MHz, both the sub- and ultra-harmonic components showed the same tendency that the corresponding energy decreased as the overpressure was increased. A 4-MHz Gaussian pulse with 64 cycles could provide an ultra-harmonic response with both good ambient pressure sensitivity and high linearity. Furthermore, the effects of shell parameters of a microbubble on the generation of ultra- and sub-harmonic responses were discussed based on simulations using Marmottant's model. This study suggests that the ultra-harmonic response from contrast microbubbles might be applicable for noninvasive pressure measurement.
Compare ultrasound-mediated heating and cavitation between flowing polymer- and lipid-shelled microbubbles during focused ultrasound exposures.	This paper compares the efficiency of flowing polymer- and lipid-shelled microbubbles (MBs) in the heating and cavitation during focused ultrasound exposures. Temperature and cavitation activity were simultaneously measured as the two types of shelled MBs and saline flowing through a 3 mm diameter vessel in the phantom with varying flow velocities (0-20 cm/s) at different acoustic power levels (0.6-20 W) with each exposure for 5 s. Temperature and cavitation for the lipid-shelled MBs were higher than those for the polymer-shelled MBs. Temperature rise decreased with increasing flow velocities for the two types of shelled MBs and saline at acoustic power 1.5 W. At acoustic power 11.1 W, temperature rise increased with increasing flow velocities for the lipid-shelled MBs. For the polymer-shelled MBs, the temperature rise increased with increasing flow velocities from 3-15 cm/s and decreased at 20 cm/s. Cavitation increased with increasing flow velocity for the two shelled MBs and there were no significant changes of cavitation with increasing flow velocities for saline. These results suggested that lipid-shelled MBs may have a greater efficiency than polymer-shelled MBs in heating and cavitation during focused ultrasound exposures.
EFSUMB guidelines 2011: comments and illustrations.	The European Federation of Societies for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology (EFSUMB) introduced the first guidelines on the use of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in 2004. This EFSUMB document focused mainly on liver applications. However, new applications extending beyond the liver were subsequently developed. Therefore, in the update of the clinical recommendations on the use of CEUS by the EFSUMB, applications in other organs were also described and published in 2008. Increased interest in recent years in the CEUS technique and in the application of CEUS in novel fields has resulted in CEUS indications and applications for nearly all organ systems. As a result, the EFSUMB initiated a new update of the guidelines in 2011 to include this additional knowledge. Some of the indications are established, whereas others are preliminary. The latter indications are categorized as emergent CEUS applications since the available evidence is insufficient for general recommendation. This article focuses on comments, illustrations and examples of the application of CEUS in the pancreas, spleen, gastrointestinal tract, kidney, adrenals, lymph nodes, perineum, and hepatobiliary system. The potential for endoscopic ultrasound to highlight the importance of CEUS in the daily routine is also addressed.
Liver tumor characterization--review of the literature.	Multicenter trials to assess contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for the imaging of focal liver lesions (FLLs) have included more than 1000 patients. This article reviews the published literature pertaining to these trials to determine the role of CEUS in the characterization of FLL.
Diagnosis of acute cortical necrosis in renal transplantation by contrast-enhanced ultrasound: a preliminary experience.	To evaluate the use of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for diagnosis of cortical necrosis in renal allografts.
Evaluation of carotid plaque neovascularization using contrast ultrasound.	Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is increasingly used to improve visualization of carotid arteries. However, its reproducibility and utility for clinical research are not well established. The aim of the present study was to assess reproducibility of detection of carotid artery wall neovascularization using CEUS. Complete sequenced CEUS images from 10 individuals were analyzed for the presence of carotid arterial wall neovascularization. The images were acquired using Philips CompactXtreme CX50 ultrasound unit with an L12-3 probe and Bracco SonoVue contrast agent. The carotid wall neovascularization was graded by 2 independent observers with inter-/intraobserver agreement (κ) calculated. Interobserver κ values for intraplaque neovascularization (mean [95% confidence interval]) were 0.67 (0.40-0.94) for the left side. Interobserver κ values for intraplaque neovascularization were 0.65 (0.38-0.92). No study-related complications were observed. The CEUS method although semiquantitative shows moderate-to-strong intra- and interagreement for the results and can be used for clinical research purpose.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound of hepatocellular carcinoma: correlation between enhancement pattern and cellular differentiation on histopathlogy.	The aim of this study was to evaluate and correlate the enhancement pattern of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) on contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and tumour cellular differentiation on histopathology. Patients underwent hepatic CEUS, performed with SonoVue and contrast pulse sequencing. The correlation between enhancement time and enhancement level of the lesions in different vascular phases and tumour cellular differentiation was determined. The tumours were graded according to the Edmondson grading system. Then, diagnosis was obtained by histopathological examination following surgery or percutaneous ultrasound-guided biopsy. 189 patients with HCC were examined with CEUS and histopathological examination between 2003 and 2009: 159 had a solitary lesion (85 %), 24 had 2 lesions (12 %) and 6 had multiple lesions (3 %). The final histological grading of the tumours was as follows: 22, 114, 49, 4 grade I-IV, respectively. Significant differences were shown between the time that HCC become hypoenhancing or remained echogenic in late phase and tumour cellular differentiation (p = 0.006, p = 0.036). The timing of HCC becoming hypoenhancing was correlated with tumour cellular differentiation, with better differentiated HCCs washing out more slowly than poorly differentiated ones (p = 0.164, p = 0.113; p = 0.186, p = 0.070). The enhancement pattern of HCC by CEUS correlates with the cellular differentiation. In late phases, hyperechoic lesions are likely to be better differentiated, whereas hypoechoic lesion is more likely to be poorly differentiated.
Quantitative diagnosis of early-stage liver cirrhosis with contrast-enhanced ultrasound--a clinical study.	To investigate the quantitative diagnosis value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for early-stage liver cirrhosis.
Contrast enhanced ultrasound in atherosclerotic carotid artery disease.	The traditional morphological parameters for the description of a carotid atherosclerotic plaque (degree of stenosis, echogenicity, systolic peak velocity etc.) are insufficient for the prediction of the risk of embolization. Contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS), based on the theory of inflammation and neoangiogenesis, seems to have a great potential for the detection of unstable plaques. The purpose of our work was to compare echogenicity of the plaque (evaluated with the Grey Scale Median; GSM), the degree of stenosis and CEUS with the histopathological findings.
Contrast-enhanced transrectal ultrasonography: measurement of prostate cancer tumor size and correlation with radical prostatectomy specimens.	To determine the accuracy of contrast-enhanced transrectal ultrasonography for tumor size measurements of hypoechoic prostate cancer foci located in the peripheral zone.
Application of contrast-enhanced ultrasound in the diagnosis of solid pancreatic lesions--a comparison of conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced CT.	To explore the diagnostic value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) by comparison with conventional ultrasound (US) and contrast-enhanced CT (CECT) in solid pancreatic lesions.
Real-time contrast-enhanced ultrasound in diagnosis of solid renal lesions.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in diagnosis of solid renal lesions (SRLs)--malignant or benign renal tumors. We retrospectively analyzed 91 cases with 100 SLRs with a mean diameter of 3.3±1.7 cm. CEUS was performed and their perfusion characteristics were analyzed by using contrast pulse sequences technique. CEUS findings were compared with histopathologic findings of biopsy. There were 85 malignant lesions (78 renal clear cell carcinoma, 5 renal papillary carcinoma, and 2 chromophobe cell carcinoma) and 15 benign lesions (13 angiomyolipoma and 2 renal oncocytoma). For malignancy, 74 lesions (87.1%) showed contrast agent fast perfusing and hyper-enhancement or iso-enhancement in cortical phase and 72 (84.7%) showed hypo-enhancement in later corticomedullary or late phase. For tumors with a diameter>4 cm, the heterogeneous enhancement feature was shown seemingly as "honeycomb" enhancement; for those≤4 cm, relatively homogeneous enhancement feature was observed. Meanwhile, 79 (92.9%) malignant lesions showed rim-like enhancement. For benignancy, 13 angiomyolipoma showed contrast agent slow wash-in and slow wash-out mode, while 2 renal oncocytoma showed similar enhancement characteristic to the malignant lesions. The specificity, accuracy, and positive predictive value of diagnosis for SRLs were 96.5%, 96%, and 82.4% for CEUS, and 72.9%, 71%, and 28.1% for conventional US, respectively (P<0.001). Meanwhile the sensitivity and negative predictive value for CEUS were 93.3% and 98.8%, respectively, compared with those of conventional US (60% and 91.2%, P>0.05). Real-time CEUS can provide valuable information for improving the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of SRLs.
Impact of gender on the density of intraplaque neovascularization: a quantitative contrast-enhanced ultrasound study.	Atherosclerosis is the main underlying cause of the majority of cardiovascular events. Although cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are a major challenge in both males and females, gender specific differences in the prevalence of CVD have been observed. This may indicate that there are differences in the development of atherosclerosis between males and females. The presence of intraplaque neovessels (IPN) is an imaging marker for plaque vulnerability. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of gender on IPN.
Contrast-harmonic endoscopic ultrasound for the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma: a prospective multicenter trial.	Histology is the gold standard for the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. However, the negative predictive value of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) for the diagnosis remains low. The aims of this prospective multicenter study were: (1) to compare the performance of contrast-harmonic EUS (CH-EUS) with that of EUS-FNA for the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma; (2) to assess the intra- and interobserver concordances of CH-EUS.
Biochemical and clinical correlation of intraplaque neovascularization using contrast-enhanced ultrasound of the carotid artery.	Several biomarkers reflecting inflammatory or proteolytic activity have been known to represent plaque vulnerability. Moreover, a recent study confirmed that contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) can visualize intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) and demonstrate plaque vulnerability. In this study, we tried to demonstrate that IPN detected by CEUS was correlated with several well-known biomarkers and clinical outcome in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Intraoperative contrast-enhanced ultrasound for brain tumor surgery.	Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is a dynamic and continuous modality that offers a real-time, direct view of vascularization patterns and tissue resistance for many organs. Thanks to newer ultrasound contrast agents, CEUS has become a well-established, live-imaging technique in many contexts, but it has never been used extensively for brain imaging. The use of intraoperative CEUS (iCEUS) imaging in neurosurgery is limited.
The feasibility and clinical utility of myocardial contrast echocardiography in clinical practice: results from the incorporation of myocardial perfusion assessment into clinical testing with stress echocardiography study.	This prospective study investigated whether the incorporation of myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) into a clinical stress echocardiography service reproduces the benefits of assessing myocardial perfusion proved previously in research studies.
Contrast-enhanced sonographically guided percutaneous 915-MHz microwave ablation therapy compared to local hemostatic drug injection in a renal artery injury model.	The purpose of this study was to show the contrast-enhanced sonographic features of various levels of renal artery rupture and to validate the therapeutic effects of percutaneous 915-MHz microwave ablation compared to hemostatic drug injection (batroxobin) using an in vivo canine renal artery injury model.
Failed retinal surgery caused by intraocular gas injection.	Four patients developed inferior retinal redetachment following initially successful surgery which included intraocular injection of air and sulphahexafluoride (SF6) mixture. In each case the intravitreal gas bubble produced vitreoretinal traction which opened inferior retinal breaks and led to retinal separation. Cautious use of intraocular gas is advised when bullous upper rhegmatogenous retinal detachments are accompanied by inferior retinal breaks.
Measurement of lung volume by sulfur hexafluoride washout during spontaneous and controlled ventilation: further development of a method.	An open circuit tracer gas washout method for measurement of lung volume in patients during anesthesia and intensive care is described and tested. The method employs a device for dispensing the tracer gas, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), a fast SF6 analyzer, a pneumotachograph, and a computer. The dispensing device delivers SF6 into the airway in proportion to instantaneous inspiratory flow so that inspiratory SF6 concentration is held constant, usually at about 0.5%, regardless of the inspiratory flow pattern. The amount of SF6 present in the lungs at the end of a washin is calculated during washout from signals representing expired SF6 concentration and expired flow. From this, lung volume is derived. Accurate and reproducible results were obtained in lung model tests during ventilation with air, N2O in O2, and halothane in O2. Functional residual capacity (FRC) was measured both with SF6 washout and nitrogen washout in five mechanically ventilated patients. This gave the regression equation: FRCSF6 = 10 ml + 1.04 x FRCN2, r = 0.99. A similar close agreement was observed for total lung capacity (TLC) and residual volume (RV) measurements in eight healthy, spontaneously breathing subjects: TLCSF6 = 91 ml + 1.01 x TLCN2, r = 0.99; RVSF6 = -32 ml + 0.97 x RVN2, r = 0.95. Comparison with body plethysmography in eight healthy, sitting subjects gave the regression equation: FRCSF6 = 180 ml + 0.96 x FRCbox, r = 0.99. The median (range) for the coefficient of variation at duplicate determinations in 10 anesthetized, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated adults was 3.0% (0.2-6.6%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Human alveolar gas-mixing efficiency for gases of differing diffusivity in health and airflow limitation.	1. Incomplete mixing of alveolar gas may be expressed as an equivalent alveolar dead space serving a remaining alveolar space in which mixing is regarded as complete. Calculation of this dead space during multiple-breath, inert gas wash-in or wash-out leads to an estimate of 'multiple-breath alveolar mixing efficiency' (MBME). 2. We measured MBME in 25 healthy subjects and six patients with chronic airflow limitation (CAL), and in three asthmatic patients before and after bronchial provocation with histamine aerosol, from successive breaths during open-circuit, multiple-breath wash-in of a mixture containing helium (He) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). The simultaneous use of a light and a heavy gas helps to identify diffusive mechanisms. 3. MBME fell almost linearly with log Z, the proportion of total wash-in remaining uncompleted. For a given Z, MBME was always lower for SF6 than for He in the same subject. In health the lowest MBME (52.2%) was seen for SF6 in a man aged 21 years. The same wash-in yielded a ventilation distribution with an extreme range of specific ventilation of less than 1 decade. MBME of this order is thus consistent with estimates of ventilation distribution in health. 4. Patients with CAL showed a big increase in the volume of the conducting airways or 'series dead space' (VDS) for both gases, and VDS was always bigger for SF6 than for He. This very large VDS appears to be the main reason for wash-in delay in these patients, followed by impaired diffusive mixing in the peripheral air spaces. Ventilation maldistribution may play little part in the mixing defect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gas mixing in dog lungs studied by single-breath washout of He and SF6.	Simultaneously measured helium (He) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) single-breath washout was studied in 16 anesthetized paralyzed dogs ventilated with a special hydraulically operated ventilatory servo system. After equilibration of lung gas with 1% He and 1% SF6, the maneuver consisting of inspiration of a test gas-free mixture at constant rate (VI), a variable time of breath holding, and an expiration at constant rate (VE), was performed. Fractional concentrations of He and SF6, recorded against expired volume, were analyzed in terms of slope of the alveolar plateau (S) and series (Fowler) dead space (VD). In control conditions (VI = 0.5 l/s, VE = 0.1 l/s) S was about 10% of alveolar-to-inspired concentration difference per liter expirate both for He and SF6. Both SHe and SSF6 were inversely related to VI and VE, the relative changes being more pronounced with varying VE. SHe/SSF6 was higher or lower than unity depending on VI and VE. Both SHe and SSF6 decreased with increasing preinspiratory lung volume. Breath holding up to 10 s slightly decreased SHe and SSF6 while SHe/SSF6 was unchanged. The contribution of continuing gas exchange to S assessed from comparative measurements using the reversed (single breath washin) technique ranged from 6 to 23% in the various conditions. The VDHe/VDSF6 ratio was 0.84 and was little affected in the various settings. Results indicate that the substantial alveolar gas inhomogeneity in the dog lung and the mechanism accounting for S are little diffusion dependent. By exclusion sequential filling and emptying of lung units is believed to constitute the most important mechanism responsible for the sloping alveolar plateau.
Measurement of lung emptying patterns during slow exhalations.	Five subjects slowly inhaled a 200-ml bolus of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) from residual volume (RV) followed by an O2-Ar mixture to total lung capacity, then exhaled to RV, either slowly or as rapidly as possible. Larger amounts of SF6 and N2 were recovered in fast than in slow exhalations. We calculated the gas volumes of the apical and basal halves of the parenchymal mass as functions of exhaled volume during slow exhalations from 1) the difference between SF6 recovered in slow and fast exhalations and 2) an estimate of the apex-to-base concentration profile of SF6 in the lung after inspiration. The maximal volume difference, where the apex contained 600 ml more gas than the base, occurred when 70% of the vital capacity had been exhaled. The same calculation, but using N2 data, gave unrealistically large volume differences. Apparently SF6 delivered as a bolus results in an apex-to-base gradient that is large relative to intraregional gradients, but dilution of the resident N2 by a non-N2 gas results in sizable intraregional gradients.
Assessment of density dependent flow-volume parameters in nonsmokers and smokers. Measurement with spirometry, body plethysmography and respiratory inductive plethysmography.	The purpose of this investigation was to assess the density-dependent flow-volume components of the forced vital capacity using simultaneous spirometry, respiratory inductive plethysmography, and body plethysmography in the detection of small airway disease. The forced vital capacity was measured during air, helium-oxygen and sulfur-hexafluoride breathing to provide a range of gas density influences. Combining flow measured at the mouth with volume referenced to change in alveolar gas volume as measured by body or respiratory inductive plethysmography during helium-oxygen breathing accentuated the differences between nonsmokers and smokers because of the variable degree of alveolar gas compression occurring over the second half of FVC. The volume of isoflow obtained when comparing the helium and oxygen mixture to air also effectively separated nonsmokers from smokers. The utilization of the high density gas mixture, sulfur hexafluoride-oxygen during the FVC maneuver did not provide useful diagnostic information. Therefore, density-dependent flow-volume information using helium as a test gas alone or compared to air with a variety of analyses is a good approach to detection of early lung disease in smokers.
Treatment of uncomplicated cases of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment with an expanding gas bubble.	We reviewed 55 consecutive cases of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment treated with pneumatic retinopexy as a primary procedure and followed up for a minimum of 1 year. 40 eyes were phakic, 11 aphakic and 4 pseudophakic. 0.6 ml of sulfur hexafluoride were injected into 42 eyes, while 0.3 ml of perfluoropropane were introduced into 13. Transconjunctival cryotherapy was performed in 51 eyes, while light coagulation was used as retinopexy after the retina was reattached in the remaining 4 cases. Of the 55 eyes undergoing treatment, 46 (83.6%) retinas were reattached with one operation. The benefits, complications and disadvantages of the procedure are reported.
Solubility of 6 gases in blood and various liquid media]	Sulfur hexafluoride, ethane, cyclopropane, enflurane, diethyl ether and acetone are six gases commonly used in the measurement of the distribution of ventilation-perfusion ratios. In order to obtain reference data, their liquid/gas partition coefficients (K) have been determined in water at three different temperatures and in several inorganic, organic and biologic media at 37 degrees C, by a headspace-gas chromatographic method. As expected, an increase in temperature and concentration of solutes in the liquid matrix reduces the solubility of the gases. All gases, except acetone, are more soluble in olive oil than in water. The solubility of SF6, ethane, cyclopropane and enflurane in human and rat blood is greater than in water, the solubility of ether remains practically unchanged, and that of acetone is lower in blood than in water.
