Pharmacokinetics of cefradine, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and their metabolites in a patient with peritonitis undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.	Cefradine and co-trimoxazole pharmacokinetics were studied in a patient with peritonitis that complicated continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Concentrations in the plasma reached after oral administration of 500 mg cefradine four times daily and 400/80 mg co-trimoxazole four times daily were for cefradine 100 micrograms/ml, for trimethoprim 15 micrograms/ml, and for sulfamethoxazole 100 micrograms/ml, respectively. In the dialysate concentrations were reached of 35-70 micrograms/ml cefradine, 2-5 micrograms/ml trimethoprim and 8-17 micrograms/ml sulfamethoxazole. The values for sulfamethoxazole are regarded too low to be clinically effective. Half-lives, protein binding values and CAPD clearances are presented. Low CAPD clearances were obtained during the night and high values during the day. The dosage yielded too high plasma trimethoprim concentrations, while sulfamethoxazole dialysate concentrations were too low. It seems questionable therefore whether co-trimoxazole can be used orally for the treatment of CAPD peritonitis.
Potential role of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in the treatment of serious hospital-acquired bacterial infections.	Although trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) has become a standard agent for the treatment of a broad range of infections, it may often be overlooked as a choice for treatment of serious hospital-acquired infections. A review of the literature shows that a number of common and uncommon gram-negative and gram-positive organisms susceptible to TMP-SMZ are frequently resistant to cephalosporins. TMP-SMZ has, in addition to its exceptional microbiologic activity, pharmacokinetic characteristics that make it a potentially cost-effective alternative to third-generation cephalosporins in the treatment of serious hospital-acquired infections caused by susceptible organisms.
Penetration of trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole into skin blister fluid.	In 32 patients the concentrations of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim in whole blood, plasma and skin blister fluid were studied in the course of treatment with co-trimoxazole and trimethoprim alone. Measurements were taken on the fourth day of treatment, 3 h after administration of the morning dose of the drug. The blood contained a lower concentration of sulfamethoxazole than plasma. About 70% of the sulfonamide penetrated into the exudate from plasma. Trimethoprim administered conjointly with sulfamethoxazole to a higher degree penetrated skin blister fluid to a greater extent than when given alone.
Effect of chlorpromazine on intestinal absorption of sulfamethoxazole in rats.	The effect of chlorpromazine (CPZ) on the intestinal absorption of sulfamethoxazole (SMZ) was studied in isolated perfused rat small intestine by comparing two determinants, i.e. the epithelial permeability and the intestinal blood flow. The appearance rate of SMZ in blood in the presence of CPZ decreased to one-half of the control without CPZ. The pH of perfusion solution was significantly decreased by CPZ after 10 min perfusion. According to the Winne's absorption model, CPZ did not change the apparent epithelial permeability of SMZ, but decreased the epithelial permeability of unionized SMZ due to the decrease in the pH of perfusion solution by CPZ. It was also suggested that CPZ decreased the fraction of the total blood flow rate in the subepithelial capillaries to less than one-half.
Penetration of amoxicillin, cefaclor, erythromycin-sulfisoxazole, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole into the middle ear fluid of patients with chronic serous otitis media.	Penetration into the middle ear of four antibiotics commonly used in treatment of otitis media was studied by administering a single oral dose of amoxicillin, cefaclor, erythromycin-sulfisoxazole, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole to 83 children with chronic serous otitis media. The antibiotic was given 15-240 min before the removal of middle ear fluid (MEF) by ventilation tubes inserted through the tympanic membrane. At the time MEF was obtained, a sample of blood was drawn from the patient, and concentrations of antibiotic in both specimens were assayed either microbiologically by a disk diffusion method or by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Amoxicillin had the highest ratio of mean peak concentration in MEF to minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) for the three most common pathogens of otitis media (Streptococcus pneumoniae, ampicillin-sensitive Haemophilus influenzae, and Streptococcus pyogenes), whereas trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole had the highest ratio of mean peak concentration in MEF to MIC for ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae.
Nonhomogeneous labeling of liver extra-mitochondrial acetyl-CoA. Implications for the probing of lipogenic acetyl-CoA via drug acetylation and for the production of acetate by the liver.	The labeling of liver extra-mitochondrial acetyl-CoA was investigated in isolated rat livers perfused with [2-(13)C]acetate, [1-(13)C]octanoate, or [1,2,3,4-(13)C4]docosanoate and with drugs that undergo acetylation (phenylaminobutyrate, paraaminobenzoate, and sulfamethoxazole; singly or in combination). The 13C enrichment of mitochondrial acetyl-CoA was probed by the enrichment of R-beta-hydroxybutyrate. The latter was not enriched from [1,2,3,4-(13)C4]docosanoate, thus excluding mitochondrial beta-oxidation of docosanoate. The 13C enrichment of extra-mitochondrial acetyl-CoA was probed by the enrichments of acetylated drugs and of free acetate. In most cases, the four probes yielded different enrichments. Thus, extra-mitochondrial acetyl-CoA appears nonhomogeneous. Competition between drugs alters the labeling of individual acetyl-CoA sub-pools. The labeling pattern of acetylated drugs suggests the existence of more than the two N-acetyltransferases identified so far by others. Our data question the possibility of probing the pool of lipogenic acetyl-CoA via drug acetylation.
