Efficacy of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in treatment of acute diarrhea in a Mexican pediatric population.	The efficacy of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) and placebo were compared in a randomized double-blind study of 141 Mexican children with acute diarrhea. Patients who met specific entry criteria received TMP-SMX or an identical appearing placebo for 5 days. Stools were examined for bacterial, viral, and parasitic pathogens. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli were the most commonly isolated pathogens (22% of total). Patients given TMP-SMX had a significantly shorter time to "last illness stool" than did those given placebo, but no difference in number of unformed stools in 5 days was found between treatment groups. However, TMP-SMX significantly shortened the illness in patients with fever or many fecal leukocytes. When stool cultures positive for any bacterial pathogen or for enterotoxigenic E. coli were analyzed as separate groups, a significantly faster recovery was observed in patients given TMP-SMX. TMP-SMX is efficacious in the treatment of Mexican children with diarrhea and culture-proved bacterial infection or when the clinical signs and symptoms suggest bacterial enteritis.
An outbreak of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in homosexual men.	Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia has rarely been reported in previously healthy persons over the age of 6 months. Five cases of P. carinii pneumonia in adult homosexual men, confirmed by biopsy results, are reported. All five patients were seropositive when tested for antibodies to cytomegalovirus and four had evidence of active concurrent cytomegalovirus infections. Kaposi's sarcoma was shown in two of the patients and one had possible Pneumocystis infection of the central nervous system as well as P. carinii pneumonia. Three patients had second episodes of Pneumocystis pneumonia. Four of the five patients have died. Past or concurrent cytomegalovirus infection and homosexuality were the only common epidemiologic features in all five patients.
Comparative trial of sulphadiazine-trimethoprim (co-trimazine), co-trimoxazole and sulphamethizole in the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections.	A combination of sulphadiazine and trimethoprim (co-trimazine) has been developed specifically for the management of urinary tract infections. The pharmacokinetics of co-trimazine make it possible to use lower doses of both the sulphonamide and trimethoprim than in co-trimoxazole, while maintaining clinical efficacy. One hundred and twenty women with a urinary tract infection were randomly allocated to a five-day course of treatment with either co-trimazine (sulphadiazine 410 mg and trimethoprim 90 mg 12-hourly), co-trimoxazole (sulphamethoxazole 800 mg and trimethoprim 160 mg 12-hourly) or sulphamethizole (1 g 8-hourly). The respective cure rates were 95, 98 and 90 percent. No serious side effects of therapy were encountered. Co-trimazine proved to be an effective antibacterial combination for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections.
