Cost effectiveness of rosuvastatin in treating patients to low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals compared with atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin (a US Analysis of the STELLAR Trial).	Statin therapy decreases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary heart disease but has a considerable short-term effect on health care budgets. The cost effectiveness of rosuvastatin (Crestor) has been compared with those of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin in lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and achieving National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals. The analysis was conducted from the perspective of health care payers in the United States. Clinical data were obtained from the Statin Therapies for Elevated Lipid Levels Compared Across Doses to Rosuvastatin (STELLAR) trial. Drug costs were based on wholesale acquisition costs. Cost effectiveness was assessed with the net monetary benefit approach and a 1-year time horizon. Rosuvastatin at 10 mg, the recommended starting dose, was the most cost-effective statin over a large range of "willingness-to-pay" values for a unit of clinical effect (i.e., a 1% decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol or a patient achieving the goal).
The cost-effectiveness of bosentan in the United Kingdom for patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension of WHO functional class III.	To assess whether bosentan or no active intervention, in addition to palliative care, is the more cost-effective first-line treatment option for patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (iPAH) or PAH associated with connective tissue disease (PAH-CTD) of WHO functional classification (FC) III in the United Kingdom.
Comparative cost-effectiveness analysis between darunavir/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors in treatment-naive human immunodeficiency syndrome type 1-infected patients in Spain]	GESIDA (AIDS Study Group) has proposed preferred regimens of antiretroviral treatment as initial therapy in HIV infected patients. The objective of this analysis is to compare the costs and effectiveness of darunavir/r QD and other ritonavir-boosted (/r) protease inhibitors (PIs) currently recommended in GESIDA guidelines for treatment-naïve patients.
Cost-effectiveness of single-dose tamsulosin and dutasteride combination therapy compared with tamsulosin monotherapy in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia in the UK.	To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of single-dose dutasteride/tamsulosin combination therapy as a first-line treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) from the perspective of the UK National Health Service (NHS).
Cost-minimization comparison of darunavir plus ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 infected treatment-naïve women of childbearing age.	Guidelines from the Department of Health and Human Services in the US recommend ritonavir-boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) as a preferred protease inhibitor (PI) for HIV-positive antiretroviral-naїve pregnant women. These guidelines also cite ritonavir-boosted darunavir (DRV + RTV) as an alternative PI in this clinical scenario. The purpose of this analysis was to compare economic outcomes for regimens based on these two treatments.
