Sulfated polymers inhibit the interaction of human cytomegalovirus with cell surface heparan sulfate.	Several sulfated polysaccharides (dextran sulfate, pentosan polysulfate, heparin) and copolymers of acrylic acid with vinylalcohol sulfate have proved to be potent inhibitors of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) infectivity in vitro. Sulfated alpha-cyclodextrins are only weak inhibitors of CMV. A close correlation was found between the 50% inhibitory concentrations of the sulfated polymers for CMV cytopathogenicity, virus-cell binding, and expression of immediate early antigens (IEA) in human embryonic lung (HEL) cells. CMV particles bound specifically to heparin-Sepharose. Sulfated polymers specifically eluted the virus particles from this matrix. Enzymatic digestion of cell surface heparan sulfate, but not of chondroitin sulfate, prevented the cells from being infected with CMV. Moreover, radiolabeled CMV bound efficiently to, and were infective for wild-type Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, whereas virus binding to, and infection of, mutant CHO cell lines that were deficient in either all glycosaminoglycans or heparan sulfate only was significantly impaired. The mechanism of action of the sulfated polymers can be attributed to an inhibitory effect on the binding of CMV particles to the host cells. Presumably, the sulfated polymers interact with the viral envelope site(s) involved in the attachment of the CMV virions to cell surface heparan sulfate.
Semiautomated high-throughput extraction and cleanup method for the measurement of polybrominated diphenyl ethers, polybrominated biphenyls, and polychlorinated biphenyls in human serum.	A semiautomated extraction and cleanup method has been developed for the measurement of eight polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexabromobiphenyl (BB-153) and 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (CB-153). The method employs automated addition of internal standards ((13)C-labeled), addition of formic acid (denaturation agent), and dilution with water prior to automated overnight extraction using a modular solid-phase extraction (SPE) system. Removal of coextracted biogenic materials was performed on a two-layered 3-mL disposable cartridge containing activated silica gel and a mixture of silica gel and sulfuric acid. Sample cleanup was automated using the same modular SPE system. Reproducibility and precision of the liquid handler used for internal standard additions were shown to be 2 and 4%, respectively. Overall reproducibility during processing of eight batches of samples (N = 30/batch, including methods blanks) was below 10% for most analytes. Mean recoveries of the (13)C-labeled internal standards ranged from 69 to 95% for the seven monitored PBDEs; 76 and 98% were recovered for BB-153 and CB-153, respectively.
Effect of corn stover concentration on rheological characteristics.	Corn stover, a well-known example of lignocellulosic biomass, is a potential renewable feed for bioethanol production. Dilute sulfuric acid pretreatment removes hemicellulose and makes the cellulose more susceptible to bacterial digestion. The rheologic properties of corn stover pretreated in such a manner were studied. The Power Law parameters were sensitive to corn stover suspension concentration becoming more non-Newtonian with slope n, ranging from 0.92 to 0.05 between 5 and 30% solids. The Casson and the Power Law models described the experimental data with correlation coefficients ranging from 0.90 to 0.99 and 0.85 to 0.99, respectively. The yield stress predicted by direct data extrapolation and by the Herschel-Bulkley model was similar for each concentration of corn stover tested.
Performance of a newly developed integrant of Zymomonas mobilis for ethanol production on corn stover hydrolysate.	Efficient conversion of lignocellulosic biomass requires biocatalysts able to tolerate inhibitors produced by many pretreatment processes. Recombinant Zymomonas mobilis 8b, a recently developed integrant of Zymomonas mobilis 31821(pZB5), tolerated acetic acid up to 16 g l(-1) and achieved 82%-87% (w/w) ethanol yields from pure glucose/xylose solutions at pH 6 and temperatures of 30 degrees C and 37 degrees C. An ethanol yield of 85% (w/w) was achieved on glucose/xylose from hydrolysate produced by dilute sulfuric acid pretreatment of corn stover after an overliming' process was used to improve hydrolysate fermentability.
Micell-mediated extraction for the spectrophotometric determination of nitrite in water and biological samples based on its reaction with p-nitroaniline in the presence of diphenylamine.	A cloud point extraction process using the nonionic surfactant Triton X-100 to extract nitrite from aqueous solution was investigated. The method is based on the color reaction of nitrite with p-nitroaniline in the presence of diphenylamine in acid media and micell-mediated extraction of an azo product. The optimal extraction and reaction conditions (e.g., acid concentration, reagent concentration, effect of time) were studied, and the analytical characteristics of the method (e.g., limit of detection, linear range, molar absorptivity, preconcentration, and improvement factors) were obtained. Linearity was obeyed in the range of 2-40 ng ml(-1) of nitrite ion. The detection limit of the method is 0.87 ng ml(-1) of nitrite ion. The interference effect of some anions and cations was also tested. The method was applied to the determination of nitrite in tap water, waste water, and human urine samples.
Use of sulfated linked cyclitols as heparan sulfate mimetics to probe the heparin/heparan sulfate binding specificity of proteins.	Heparin and heparan sulfate (HS) are structurally diverse glycosaminoglycans (GAG) that are known to interact, via unique structural motifs, with a wide range of functionally distinct proteins and modulate their biological activity. To define the GAG motifs that interact with proteins, we assessed the ability of 15 totally synthetic HS mimetics to interact with 10 functionally diverse proteins that bind heparin/HS. The HS mimetics consisted of cyclitol-based pseudo-sugars coupled by linkers of variable chain length, flexibility, orientation, and hydrophobicity, with variations in sulfation also being introduced into some molecules. Three of the proteins tested, namely hepatocyte growth factor, eotaxin, and elastase, failed to interact with any of the sulfated linked cyclitols. In contrast, each of the remaining seven proteins tested exhibited a unique reactivity pattern with the panel of HS mimetics, with tetrameric cyclitols linked by different length alkyl chains being particularly informative. Thus, compounds with short alkyl spacers (2-3 carbon atoms) effectively blocked the interaction of fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1) and lipoprotein lipase with heparin/HS, whereas longer chain spacers (7-10 carbon atoms) were required for optimal inhibition of FGF-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor binding. This effect was most pronounced with the chemokine, interleukin-8, where alkyl-linked tetrameric cyclitols were essentially inactive unless a spacer of >7 carbon atoms was used. The heparin-inhibitable enzymes heparanase and cathepsin G also displayed characteristic inhibition patterns, cathepsin G interacting promiscuously with most of the sulfated cyclitols but heparanase activity being inhibited most effectively by HS mimetics that structurally resemble a sulfated pentasaccharide. These data indicate that a simple panel of HS mimetics can be used to probe the HS binding specificity of proteins, with the position of anionic groups in the HS mimetics being critical.
The impact of UV-B and sulphur- or copper-containing solutions in acidic conditions on chlorophyll fluorescence in selected Ramalina species.	Ramalina maciformis and Ramalina lacera were exposed to different solutions and UV-B to seek for alterations in the PSII photosynthetic quantum yield (F(v)/F(m)), in response to chemicals and radiation. For R. maciformis, significant alterations of the F(v)/F(m) ratio occurred only in response to different bisulphite solutions. The F(v)/F(m) ratio decreased most in R. maciformis and R. lacera following exposure to 5 and 1 mM bisulphite, respectively. Significant differences in F(v)/F(m) ratios were observed for R. lacera in response to different solutions and light at different wavelengths, this being synergistic. The PSII system was unaffected by simulated acid rain in both lichens. R. maciformis, in particular, may survive limited acid rain exposure owing to high Ca oxalate accumulation. The F(v)/F(m) ratio decreased most in R. lacera following short-term exposures to CuSO(4), suggesting that this species is more sensitive to Cu ions under acidic conditions.
Simulated effects of acidic solutions on element dynamics in monsoon evergreen broad-leaved forest at Dinghushan, China. Part 1: dynamics of K, Na, Ca, Mg and P.	Acid deposition has become a concern in south China in recent years. This phenomenon has increased to a dramatic extent with the large use of cars and coal-fueled power plants. As a consequence, soils are becoming acidified and their element dynamics will change. A decrease in the nutrient availability will lead to slower plant growth and maybe to a change in the forest type with current species being replaced by new ones with less nutrient requirements. Because of these reasons, it is important to understand how the dynamics of elements will change and what mechanism is part of the process. This knowledge is important for modeling the acidification process and either finding ways to counter it or to predict its consequences. The primary purpose of this study was to provide information about how the dynamics of K, Na, Ca, Mg and P are affected by acid deposition in a typical forest in southern China.
Inhibition of infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 by sulfated gangliosides.	Four kinds of gangliosides, namely GM1a, GD1a, GD1b and GT1b and their sulfated derivatives were examined for antiviral activities against human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and abilities to modulate CD4 antigen on the cell surface. The infection of human T cells with the virus was markedly inhibited by treatment with the sulfated gangliosides at a concentration of 10 micrograms/ml, while the non-sulfated gangliosides had only weak antiviral activities. The sulfated gangliosides completely inhibited syncytium formation induced by HIV-1 at 30 micrograms/ml. The CD4 antigen on the surface of T cells became hardly detectable after treatment with them. They did not damage cells, nor prolong the activated partial thromboplastin time at concentrations of up to 100 micrograms/ml, suggesting that they may have little side effect in vivo.
Impact of recycling stillage on conversion of dilute sulfuric acid pretreated corn stover to ethanol.	Both the current corn starch to ethanol industry and the emerging lignocellulosic biofuels industry view recycling of spent fermentation broth or stillage as a method to reduce fresh water use. The objective of this study was to understand the impact of recycling stillage on conversion of corn stover to ethanol. Sugars in a dilute-acid pretreated corn stover hydrolysate were fermented to ethanol by the glucose-xylose fermenting bacteria Zymomonas mobilis 8b. Three serial fermentations were performed at two different initial sugar concentrations using either 10% or 25% of the stillage as makeup water for the next fermentation in the series. Serial fermentations were performed to achieve near steady state concentration of inhibitors and other compounds in the corn stover hydrolysate. Little impact on ethanol yields was seen at sugar concentrations equivalent to pretreated corn stover slurry at 15% (w/w) with 10% recycle of the stillage. However, ethanol yields became progressively poorer as the sugar concentration increased and fraction of the stillage recycled increased. At an equivalent corn stover slurry concentration of 20% with 25% recycled stillage the ethanol yield was only 5%. For this microorganism with dilute-acid pretreated corn stover, recycling a large fraction of the stillage had a significant negative impact on fermentation performance. Although this finding is of concern for biochemical-based lignocellulose conversion processes, other microorganism/pretreatment technology combinations will likely perform differently.
Inhibition of glutathione-conjugate secretion from isolated hepatocytes by dipolar bile acids and other organic anions.	The effect of a spectrum of organic compounds on the secretion of a model organic anion, dinitrophenylglutathione (GS-DNP), by hepatocytes was tested. Previous experiments have demonstrated that the secretion of GS-DNP from isolated rat hepatocytes is predominantly mediated by a canalicular transport system for this compound. Preincubation of isolated rat hepatocytes with the bile acids cholic acid (C), taurocholic acid (TC), tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDC) and glyco- or tauro-lithocholic acid (GLC or TLC) had no effect on the initial efflux rate of GS-DNP. In contrast, the 3-sulphates of GLC (SGLC) and TLC (STLC) did inhibit GS-DNP efflux; half-maximal inhibition with SGLC was reached with 10 microM. The 3-O-glucuronides of both cholate and lithocholate (GlucLC) were even more potent inhibitors of transport; 10 microM-GlucLC inhibited GS-DNP transport by 89%. Other cholephilic organic anions also inhibited GS-DNP secretion, albeit at higher concentrations; at 100 microM, bilirubin ditaurate, an analogue of bilirubin diglucuronide, inhibited transport by 48%. On the other hand, a number of cholephilic cationic and neutral compounds had no effect on GS-DNP efflux. The hepatobiliary secretion of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was also investigated. In normal isolated perfused rat liver, extensive biliary secretion of GSSG was observed upon intracellular oxidation of reduced glutathione (GSH). GSSG was also actively secreted from isolated normal hepatocytes, and this secretion could be inhibited by 95% by incubation of the cells with 100 microM-SGLC. In contrast, biliary secretion was absent in the isolated perfused liver and in isolated hepatocytes from TR- mutant rats with a hereditary conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia. These results show that the canalicular efflux of GSSG and GS conjugates can be inhibited by a wide variety of polyvalent organic anions, but not by cations, neutral compounds and unianionic bile acids. This suggests that a multispecific organic-anion transporter is responsible for transport of these polyvalent anions, which is in close agreement with the fact that the biliary transport of all these compounds is defective in the mutant TR4 rat.
Possible involvement of lignin structure in anti-influenza virus activity.	Commercial lignins suppressed the growth of influenza A virus infecting MDCK cells, and the RNA-dependent RNA synthesis, as efficiently as the high-molecular weight fractions extracted from pine cone of Pinus parviflora Sieb. et Zucc. The anti-influenza A virus activity of both pine cone extract and commercial alkali-lignin was considerably reduced by treatment with sodium chlorite, but was not affected by sulfuric acid or trifluoroacetic acid. The degraded components of lignin, various synthesized polyphenols unrelated to lignin, and natural and chemically modified glucans, were not appreciably inhibitory. The data suggest that the polymerized phenolic structure of lignified materials is responsible for the anti-influenza A virus activity.
Purification and properties of the S1 secondary alkylsulphohydrolase of the detergent-degrading micro-organism, Pseudomonas C12B.	The S1 secondary alkylsulphohydrolase of the detergent-degrading micro-organism, Pseudomonas C12B, was separated from other alkylsulphohydrolases and purified to homogeneity. Under the experimental conditions used the enzyme completely hydrolysed d-octan-2-yl sulphate (d-1-methylheptyl sulphate), but showed no activity towards the corresponding l-isomer. Additional evidence has been obtained to indicate that it is probably optically stereospecific for d-secondary alkyl sulphate esters with the ester sulphate group at C-2 and with a chain length of at least seven carbon atoms. Enzyme activity towards racemic samples of heptan-2-yl sulphate (1-methylhexyl sulphate), octan-2-yl sulphate and decan-2-yl sulphate (1-methylnonyl sulphate) increased with increasing chain length. l-Octan-2-yl sulphate is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme, as are certain primary alkyl sulphates and primary alkanesulphonates. Inhibition by each of the last two types of compounds is characteristic of the behaviour of an homologous series. Inhibition increases with increasing chain length and plots of log K(i) values against the number of carbon atoms in each alkyl chain show the expected linear relationship. A crude preparation of the S2 secondary alkylsulphohydrolase was used to show that this particular enzyme hydrolyses l-octan-2-yl sulphate, but is probably inactive towards the corresponding d-isomer. The similarity of the S1 and S2 enzymes to the CS2 and CS1 enzymes respectively of Comamonas terrigena was established, and some comments have been made on the possible roles of these and other alkylsulphohydrolases in the biodegradation of detergents.
Efficiency of pretreatments for optimal enzymatic saccharification of soybean fiber.	The effectiveness of several pretreatments [high-power ultrasound, sulfuric acid (H(2)SO(4)), sodium hydroxide (NaOH), and ammonium hydroxide (NH(3)OH)] to enhance glucose production from insoluble fractions recovered from enzyme-assisted aqueous extraction processing of extruded full-fat soybean flakes (FFSF) was investigated. Sonication of the insoluble fraction at 144 μm(pp (peak-to-peak)) for 30 and 60s did not improve the saccharification yield. The solid fractions recovered after pretreatment with H(2)SO(4) [1% (w/w), 90°C, 1.5h], NaOH [15% (w/w), 65°C, 17 h], and NH(3)OH [15% (w/w), 65°C, 17 h] showed significant lignin degradation, i.e., 81.9%, 71.2%, and 75.4%, respectively, when compared to the control (7.4%). NH(3)OH pretreatment resulted in the highest saccharification yield (63%) after 48 h of enzymatic saccharification. A treatment combining the extraction and saccharification steps and applied directly to the extruded FFSF, where oil extraction yield and saccharification yield reached 98% and 43%, respectively, was identified.
Enhancing alfalfa conversion efficiencies for sugar recovery and ethanol production by altering lignin composition.	Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) biomass was evaluated for biochemical conversion into ethanol using dilute-acid and ammonia pretreatments. The two alfalfa lines compared were a reduced S-lignin transgenic cultivar generated through down regulation of the caffeic acid O-methyltransferase gene and a wild-type control. Both were harvested at two maturities. All the samples had similar carbohydrate contents including a mean composition of 316 g glucan and 497 g total neutral carbohydrates per kg dry biomass, which corresponds to a theoretic ethanol yield of 382 l/ton. Ethanol yields for alfalfa stems pretreated with dilute-acid were significantly impacted by harvest maturity and lignin composition, whereas when pretreated with dilute-ammonia, yield was solely affected by lignin composition. Use of a recombinant xylose-fermenting Saccharomyces strain, for converting the ammonia pretreated alfalfa samples, further increased ethanol yields. Ethanol yields for the xylose-fermenting yeast were 232-278 l/ton and were significantly enhanced for the reduced S lignin cultivars.
Effects of rhamnolipid on the cellulase and xylanase in hydrolysis of wheat straw.	The effects of biosurfactant rhamnolipid (RL) and chemical surfactant Triton X-100 on the production of cellulases and xylanase from Penicillium expansum (P. expansum) in untreated, acid- and alkali-pretreated wheat straw submerged fermentations were studied, and the influences on the activity and stability of Cellulase R-10 were also investigated. The results showed that RL and Triton X-100 enhanced the activities of cellulases and xylanase to different extents and the stimulatory effects of RL were superior to those of Triton X-100. During the peak enzyme production phase, RL (60 RE mg/l) increased cellulases activities by 25.5-102.9%, in which the raise of the same enzyme in acid-pretreated straw broths was the most. It was found that the reducing sugars by hydrolyzing wheat straw with Cellulase R-100 were not visibly increased after adding RL. However, it distinctly protected Cellulase R-10 from degradation or inactivation, keeping the reducing sugars yield at about 17%.
Feedstock mixture effects on sugar monomer recovery following dilute acid pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis.	This study seeks to investigate the effects of biomass mixtures on overall sugar recovery from the combined processes of dilute acid pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis. Aspen, a hardwood species well suited to biochemical processing, was chosen as the model species for this study. Balsam, a high-lignin softwood species, and switchgrass, an herbaceous energy crop with high ash content, were chosen as adjuncts. A matrix of three different dilute acid pretreatment severities and three different enzyme loading levels was used to characterize interactions between pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis. No synergism or antagonism was observed for any of the feedstock mixtures. Maximum glucose yield was 70% of theoretical for switchgrass and maximum xylose yield was 99.7% of theoretical for aspen. Supplemental β-glucosidase increased glucose yield from enzymatic hydrolysis by an average of 15%. Total sugar recoveries for mixtures could be predicted to within 4% by linear interpolation of the pure species results.
Combined effect of pelleting and pretreatment on enzymatic hydrolysis of switchgrass.	Switchgrass was pelleted to evaluate the effect of densification on acidic and alkaline pretreatment efficacy. Bulk density and durability of pellets were 724 kg/m(3) and 95%, respectively. Ground switchgrass (D(90) = 21.7 mm) was further ground to a fine power (D(90) = 0.5mm) in the pellet mill prior to densification. This grinding increased enzymatic hydrolyzate glucose yields of non-pretreated materials by 210%. Pelleting had no adverse impact on dilute acid pretreatment efficacy. Grinding and pelleting increased hydrolyzate glucose yields of switchgrass pretreated by soaking in aqueous ammonia (SAA) by 37%. Xylose yields from SAA-pretreated switchgrass pellets were 42% higher than those from the original biomass. Increases in sugar yields from SAA-pretreated pelleted biomass are attributed to grinding and heating of biomass during the pelleting process. Potential transportation, storage, and handling benefits of biomass pelleting may be achieved without negatively affecting the downstream processing steps of pretreatment or enzymatic hydrolysis.
Structural transformation of hemicelluloses and lignin from triploid poplar during acid-pretreatment based biorefinery process.	In order to understand the behaviors of hemicelluloses and lignin under the given acidic conditions with increasing severity, the structural characteristics were elucidated in detail by both wet chemistry methods and spectroscopic analyses in this study. Although acidic pretreatment significantly hydrolyzed the glycosidic linkages in xylan backbone and then reduced the molecular weight of xylan from 89,600 to 19,630 g/mol, a slightly increased amount of glucuronic acid was observed, probably attributing to the maintenance of ester bonds. The serious structural variation occurred in lignin macromolecule was evidenced by the extensive degradation of β-O-4 ether linkages and resinol substructure, together with the changes in the ratios of the three monolignols in ester-bond, ether-bond and non-condensed phenolic compounds. At the most severity, obvious condensation reactions introduced the clear shift of C(2) and C(5) correlations and the absence of C(6) correlation in guaiacyl units by 2D HSQC analysis.
Pretreatment of Agave americana stalk for enzymatic saccharification.	Agave americana is one of commonly grown agave species but currently less valuable because its large flower stalk cannot be used for producing alcoholic beverage. In the present study, the stalk was pretreated with dilute acid (DA), sulfite (SPORL), and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) to preliminarily assess its potential as feedstock for bioethanol production. The changes of cell wall components during the pretreatments, enzymatic digestibility of the pretreated stalks, and the adsorption of cellulases on the substrates were investigated. Results indicated that the pretreatments significantly improved the enzymatic digestibility of the agave stalk. SPORL pretreatment gave higher substrate and sugar yields, while NaOH pretreated stalk had better digestibility under the investigated conditions. The better hydrolysability of NaOH-pretreated stalk was attributed to low lignin and hemicellulose content and high affinity to cellulases.
Hydrolysis of hemicellulose to produce fermentable monosaccharides by plasma acid.	In this paper, plasma acid was obtained by treating distilled water with dielectric barrier discharge to hydrolyze hemicellulose. The orthogonal experiment L₂₅(5(6)) was used to optimize such hydrolysis conditions. The total reducing sugar (TRS) was measured by the DNS method. To determine whether the oligosaccharide existed in the hydrolysis products, it was hydrolyzed by sulfuric acid for a second time following the same procedure as reported earlier. The monosaccharide compositions of the hydrolyzed sample were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The results showed that pH 2.81 of plasma acid, 100 °C and 50 min were assigned as an optimal hydrolysis condition by plasma acid. Under this condition, the hemicellulose was hydrolyzed completely to produce monosaccharides including xylose, glucose, and galactose with the mole ratio being 17:3:1. The yields of xylose, glucose, and galactose were 38.67%, 9.28% and 3.09%, respectively. Compared with the hemicellulose hydrolysis results by sulfuric acid, it is concluded that plasma acid is an environmental-friendly and efficient method to explore and hydrolyze the hemicellulose existed in biomass.
Simultaneous hydrolysis-esterification of wet microalgal lipid using acid.	This research demonstrated hydrolysis of wet microalgal lipid and esterification of free fatty acid (FFA) using acid in one-step process. The investigation of simultaneous hydrolysis-esterification (SHE) of wet microalgal lipid was conducted by using L27 orthogonal design and the effects of water content, volume of sulphuric acid, volume of methanol, temperature and time on SHE were examined. As a result, water content was found to be the most effective factor. The effects of various parameters on fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) content and equilibrium relation between FAME and FFA were also examined under water content 80%. Equimolar amounts of sulphuric acid and hydrochloric acid showed similar results. This method has great potential in terms of biodiesel production from microalgae since no organic solvents are used. 
Monomeric carbohydrates production from olive tree pruning biomass: modeling of dilute acid hydrolysis.	Statistical modeling and optimization of dilute sulfuric acid hydrolysis of olive tree pruning biomass has been performed using response surface methodology. Central composite rotatable design was applied to assess the effect of acid concentration, reaction time and temperature on efficiency and selectivity of hemicellulosic monomeric carbohydrates to d-xylose. Second-order polynomial model was fitted to experimental data to find the optimum reaction conditions by multiple regression analysis. The monomeric d-xylose recovery 85% (as predicted by the model) was achieved under optimized hydrolysis conditions (1.27% acid concentration, 96.5°C and 138 min), confirming the high validity of the developed model. The content of d-glucose (8.3%) and monosaccharide degradation products (0.1% furfural and 0.04% 5-hydroxymethylfurfural) provided a high quality subtract, ready for subsequent biochemical conversion to value-added products.
Glucose content in the liquid hydrolysate after dilute acid pretreatment is affected by the starch content in rice straw.	Lignocellulosic biomass, such as rice straw, is often utilized as a bioresource after being hydrolyzed using dilute acid and separated into liquid hydrolysate and acid-insoluble residue. However, the biomass component that determines the distribution between liquid hydrolysate and acid-insoluble residue has not yet been clarified. In this study, the glucose content in the liquid hydrolysate and weight of acid-insoluble residue of 13 rice cultivars were analyzed. Starch content was positively correlated with glucose content in the liquid hydrolysate, and negatively correlated with acid-insoluble residue weight. These results indicate that the glucose in the liquid hydrolysate is mainly liberated from starch rather than cellulose in the rice straw. These observations suggest that starch content is a good indicator of the glucose distribution between the liquid hydrolysate and insoluble residue. 
A new anti-human immunodeficiency virus substance, glycyrrhizin sulfate; endowment of glycyrrhizin with reverse transcriptase-inhibitory activity by chemical modification.	Glycyrrhizin sulfate (GLS) was synthesized and investigated for antiviral effect on the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in vitro in comparison with the parental anti-HIV compound glycyrrhizin (GL). In MT-4 cells after HIV infection, the virus-induced cytopathic effect and the expression of viral antigens were inhibited by 0.25 mg/ml (0.184 mM) of GLS. Moreover, GLS completely inhibited HIV-induced plaque formation in MT-4 cells at a concentration of 1 mg/ml (736 microM), the 50% inhibitory dose being 0.055 mg/ml (40 microM). GLS was found to be an efficient inhibitor of reverse transcriptase. The effect of GLS was 4 times stronger than that of GL in molar terms.
Sequential acid and enzymatic hydrolysis in situ and bioethanol production from Gracilaria biomass.	Gracilaria sp., a red alga, was used as a feedstock for the production of bioethanol. Saccharification of Gracilaria sp. by sequential acid and enzyme hydrolysis in situ produced a high quality hydrolysate that ensured its fermentability to produce ethanol. The optimal saccharification process resulted in total 11.85g/L (59.26%) of glucose and galactose, Saccharomyces cerevisiae Wu-Y2 showed a good performance on co-fermentability of glucose and galactose released in the hydrolysate from Gracilaria sp. The final ethanol concentrations of 4.72g/L (0.48g/g sugar consumed; 94% conversion efficiency) and the ethanol productivity 4.93g/L/d were achieved. 1g of dry Gracilaria can be converted to 0.236g (23.6%) of bioethanol via the processes developed. Efficient alcohol production by immobilized S. cerevisiae Wu-Y2 in batch and repeated batch fermentation was also demonstrated. The findings of this study revealed that Gracilaria sp. can be a potential feedstock in biorefinery for ethanol production. 
Methane production from marine microalgae Isochrysis galbana.	Methane production from marine microalgae Isochrysis galbana was assessed before and after mechanical and chemical pretreatments. Mechanical pretreatment resulted in a 61.7% increase in soluble Chemical Oxygen Demand. Different hydrolysis conditions were evaluated by varying temperature - T, sulfuric acid concentration - AC and biomass suspension concentration (measured as particulate COD - CODp) using an experimental design. The most significant interaction occurred between AC and T and the hydrolysis condition that showed the best result in the anaerobic digestion step was the condition at 40°C with addition of 0.2% (v/v) acid for 16h (9.27LCH4/kgVS). The low methane yields were attributed to inhibitory sodium concentrations for anaerobic digestion. Eliminating inhibitory sodium in the anaerobic digestion by biomass prewashing, there was a 71.5% increase in methane yield for biomass after acid hydrolysis, demonstrating the need for pretreatment and reduction in sodium concentration in the anaerobic digestion. 
Microbial biodiesel production by direct methanolysis of oleaginous biomass.	Biodiesel is usually produced by the transesterification of vegetable oils and animal fats with methanol, catalyzed by strong acids or bases. This study introduces a novel biodiesel production method that features direct base-catalyzed methanolysis of the cellular biomass of oleaginous yeast Rhodosporidium toruloides Y4. NaOH was used as catalyst for transesterification reactions and the variables affecting the esterification level including catalyst concentration, reaction temperature, reaction time, solvent loading (methanol) and moisture content were investigated using the oleaginous yeast biomass. The most suitable pretreatment condition was found to be 4gL(-1) NaOH and 1:20 (w/v) dried biomass to methanol ratio for 10h at 50°C and under ambient pressure. Under these conditions, the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) yield was 97.7%. Therefore, the novel method of direct base-catalyzed methanolysis of R. toruloides is a much simpler, less tedious and time-consuming, process than the conventional processes with higher FAME (biodiesel) conversion yield. 
Sublethal pH decrease may cause genetic damage to eukaryotic cell: a study on sea urchins and Salmonella typhimurium.	Further evidence is reported here of genetic and developmental damage that can be induced by a sublethal pH decrease. The effects of three inorganic acids (HCl, H2SO4, and H3PO4) on embryos and sperm from the sea urchins Sphaerechinus granularis and Paracentrotus lividus were evaluated. In addition, acidification of the medium was tested for spontaneous reversion to His+ prototrophy in Salmonella typhimurium (strains TA97, TA98, TA100, TA102, TA1535) up to toxic levels, by both liquid incubation and agar plate incorporation. The induction of developmental and mitotic abnormalities in S. granularis confirmed our previous observations on P. lividus. Embryotoxicity was exerted in S. granularis more severely by H3PO4 than by HCl or H2SO4 (pH 7 to 6), while the induction of mitotic abnormalities appeared at a pH of less than or equal to 6.5 irrespective of the acids used. By suspending S. granularis or P. lividus sperm in acidified filtered seawater (fsw) and then inseminating the eggs in natural fsw (pH = 8.0), the offspring showed developmental and mitotic abnormalities. Low-pH-induced spermiotoxicity was ruled out in our experiments, since fertilization success of acid-exposed sperm was actually enhanced, as compared to sperm suspended in untreated fsw. The exposure of S. typhimurium to different pH's (ranging from 4 to 9) invariably failed to induce any changes in reversion rates, regardless of the acids (or alkali) being used. These results suggest that extracellular acidification may cause sublethal damage that in turn leads to an impairment of mitotic activity and cell differentiation.
Comparative study of the clastogenic efficiency of ethyl methanesulfonate and diethyl sulfate in Drosophila melanogaster mature sperm.	Chromosome loss and translocation tests were carried out in Drosophila melanogaster sperm, stored in untreated females for up to 24 days, to compare the clastogenicity of ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) and diethyl sulfate (DES). The sex-linked recessive lethal test was used as a "biological dosimeter" and the following results were obtained: The yield of 2-3 translocations induced by both mutagens increased steadily with storage, being significantly higher after EMS than after DES treatment. The frequencies of partial losses induced by EMS and DES were similar and increased with storage. With up to 11 days' storage, the frequency of complete loss induced by DES was higher than that induced by EMS and remained unchanged when storage was extended to 24 days. Complete loss induced by EMS increased significantly with further storage (12-24 days). With DES, complete (but not partial) loss was detected with a dose at which EMS failed to modify the control values. These data suggest that the lower recovery of II-III translocations after treatment with DES does not result from a low breaking capacity but from a diminished or delayed rejoining of the induced breaks. This could be due to a physiological impairment of the treated cells by the high toxicity of DES or to an actual lower rejoinability of the broken ends. The differential recovery of complete and partial losses after DES treatment further suggests that the mechanisms leading to the fixation of both types of damage are somehow different, and that processes intervening in the recovery of partial losses are less affected, or not at all, by the proposed reduced rejoining of chromosome breaks.
A study of unwinding of DNA and shielding of the DNA grooves by RNA polymerase by using methylation with dimethylsulphate.	The dimethylsulphate method has been used to study the complexes of RNA polymerase (Escherichia coli) with DNA of T7 phage, poly[d(A--T)] and fragments of calf thymus DNA protected against DNase digestion by RNA polymerase. The binding of RNA polymerase to DNA significantly increases the formation of 1-methyl-adenine produced by methylation of the single-stranded DNA region, diminishes by about 10% the formation of 3-methyl-adenine by methylation within the minor groove and does not affect the formation of 7-methyl-guanine by methylation within the major DNA groove. The presence of nascent RNA decreases the formation of 1-methyl-adenine in DNA of the complex by about 30%. The initiation of RNA synthesis or RNA synthesis itself does not influence the methylation of the major groove but shielding of the minor groove increases by about twice as much. These results suggest that RNA polymerase, upon binding, breaks Watson-Crick base-pairing in a DNA region of about 15-base-pairs long, that nascent RNA forms a duplex with DNA of about 10-base-pairs long; and that the enzyme weakly interacts with DNA along its grooves and preferentially makes contacts with the minor groove.
Effects of short-term exposures to sulfuric acid and ammonium sulfate aerosols upon bronchial airway function in the donkey.	The effects of one-hour inhalation exposures to 0.3-0.6 micrometer H2SO4 and (NH4)2SO4 aerosols in the donkey were studied in terms of alterations in pulmonary flow resistance and dynamic compliance, and changes in the regional deposition and tracheobronchial mucocilliary clearance of an inert test aerosol. Short-term slowing of clearance followed certain single exposures to H2SO4 at 194-1364 microgram/m3 in three of four animals, while two of the four demonstrated a more persistent slowing of their clearance. These exposure levels produced no measurable change in resistance, compliance or regional deposition. Exposures to (NH4)SO4 up to approximately 2000 microgram/m3 had no mearurable effect upon resistance, compliance, regional deposition or mucociliary clearance.
Effect of introduction of small alkyl groups on mRNA function.	Treatment of RNA with dimethyl sulfate methylates only nitrogens, preferentially the 7 position of guanosine, whereas treatment with ethylnitrosourea ethylates mainly oxygens, preferentially the phosphodiester groups. Two plant viral mRNAs were modified with these two reagents at levels of 4-28 alkylations per molecule. The ability of alkylated RNAs to stimulate amino acid incorporation in the wheat germ system was somewhat diminished by both types of modification, but the predominant protein made, as ascertained by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, was the typical gene product of the respective mRNA. These data suggest that random alkylations, mostly of either the guanosine N-7s or the phosphates, do not interfere with peptide chain elongation, but that the ability to initiate translation properly is affected by these substitutions, presumably through their effect on the conformation of the RNAs.
Comparison between sensitivity of a viscometric method and sensitivity of the alkaline elution assay for the determination of DNA damage induced by dimethylsulfate in vitro.	DNA damage induced by dimethylsulfate (DMS) was measured with a new oscillating crucible viscometer, having a U-shaped circular channel. Rat liver nuclei were treated in vitro. Viscosity was measured by lysing nuclei in an aklaline lysing solution (pH 12.5; 25 degrees C). Nuclei were lysed immediately in the viscometer and released DNA started to uncoil. In control samples the viscosity increased very slowly with time, reaching a maximum only after about 8 h. A progressively more rapid increase in viscosity was seen with increasing concentrations of DMS. The time of DNA disentanglement was sensitive to about 30 times less breaks than the alkaline elution assay.
Effects of submicronic sulfuric acid aerosol on human pulmonary function.	The effects of a 4-hr exposure in an environmental chamber to an average 108 micrograms/m3 sulfuric acid (H2SO4 (MMAD, 0.5 micrograms)] on pulmonary function were examined in healthy young men. Subjects were randomly assigned to either experimental (N = 18) or control (N = 17) groups. All subjects were exposed to clean air on the first day. On the second day, experimental subjects were exposed to H2SO4 while control subjects were re-exposed to air. Subjects exercised for 15 min at 1.5 and 3.5 hr of exposure at an intensity equivalent to 75% of predicted maximal heart rate. Ventilation was monitored during the initial 14 min of each exposure. Pulmonary function was assessed prior to, and 2 hr and 4 hr of each exposure. Exposure to H2SO4 had no significant effect on minute ventilation, respiratory frequency, or tidal volume, nor did it affect pulmonary function as assessed by measures of airway resistance, specific airway conductance, forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory flow in 1 sec (FEV 1.0), FEV 1.0/FVC, mean expiratory flow rate between 25% and 75% FVC, and expiratory flow rate at 50% and 25% FVC. It was concluded that no changes in pulmonary function resulted from exposure to H2SO4 under the above conditions.
The induction of SCE and chromosomal aberrations with relation to specific base methylation of DNA in Chinese hamster cells by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea and dimethyl sulphate.	Chinese hamster cells (V79) were treated, either as exponentially proliferating cultures or under conditions where they were density-inhibited, with various doses of the potent carcinogen N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) or the relatively weak carcinogen dimethylsulphate (DMS). The colony forming ability of these cells and the induced frequencies of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) and chromosomal aberrations were assayed. Following the exposure of density-inhibited cells to radio-labelled methylating agents (labelled in the methyl group) these phenomena were related to the levels of 7-methylguanine (7-meGua), O6-methylguanine (O6-meGua) and 3-methyladenine (3-me-Ade) in the DNA. At equitoxic doses MNU and DMS induced similar frequencies of SCEs and chromosomal aberrations. Since, at equitoxic doses, MNU produces approximately 20 times more O6-meGua in V79 cell DNA than does DMS, this indicates that the formation of O6-meGua in DNA is not a major cause of SCEs and chromosomal aberrations. DMS-induced SCEs may be mediated via the production of both 3-meAde and 7-meGua in the DNA; these two methylated purines may also be responsible for MNU-induced SCEs. Therefore, no one specific methylated purine was identified as being solely accountable for the formation of SCEs. Also, the repair of lesions in the DNA of non-replicating V79 cells leads to a reduction in the SCE frequency on their subsequent release from the density-inhibited state, suggesting that repair is not intimately responsible for their formation. No association was discernable between chromosomal aberrations and any of the three methylated purines studied.
Effects of sulfuric acid aerosol inhalations.	Submicrometer H2SO4 droplets can affect pulmonary functions in humans. The lowest concentration which has been reported to produce a statistically significant effect on pulmonary mechanics is 1 mg/m3. Effects on tracheobronchial mucociliary clearance of inert particles were observed in our laboratory at much lower concentrations. For ten nonsmoking humans exposed for one hour via nasal mask to 0.1 mg/m3 of H2SO4, the mean bronchial clearance half-time was reduced by 38% (p less than 0.02) while for 1 mg/m3, it was increased by 48% (p less than 0.03). Four donkeys exposed for 1 hour daily to 0.1 mg/m3 for six months developed clearance abnormalities which persisted for at least three months after the last exposure. The patterns of mucociliary clearance responses to H2SO4 are similar to those seen previously in humans and donkeys following exposure to cigarette smoke, a known causal factor for chronic bronchitis.
An in vitro study of the effects of different crystal growth solutions on the topography of the enamel surface.	This study evaluated the effect on the topography of the enamel surface of applying various solutions based on polyacrylic acid. This base solution consisted of 50 per cent aqueous polyacrylic acid (molecular weight 5000) and concentrated sulphuric acid (98 per cent). Previously, similar solutions have been found to initiate a crystal growth on the enamel surface and have been proposed as being suitable for the attachment of orthodontic brackets via a composite resin interface. The base solution was modified by the addition of various ionic salts: the sulphates of lithium, magnesium and potassium, respectively. Human premolar teeth were then treated to a standard format and the effect on the enamel surface was examined by the use of a scanning electron microscope at x 500 and x 1500 magnification. The resultant micrographs of the specimens were presented to three independent observers who assessed the length, quality, and degree of coverage of the crystals. The solution containing potassium sulphate gave the longest crystals, whilst the greatest degree of coverage was obtained with the magnesium sulphate solution. Each solution was found to produce a consistent and recognizable morphology.
