Towards a new concept of lignin condensation in kraft pulping. Initial results.	In kraft pulping, a comparatively large amount of lignin remains in the fibres after the cook. Based on various analytical techniques for lignin, such as thioacidolysis, GPC and NMR, it is suggested that lignin condensation reactions take place during the cook. The reaction seems, however, not to involve ionic intermediates as has been suggested previously but rather a one-electron mechanism with elemental sulphur as the initiator. Support for such a reaction has been found through kraft cooks in the presence of an added phenol, 2,6-xylenol, as well as through NMR analysis of kraft lignin. It was found that the added phenol is incorporated in the pulp lignin with linkages indicative of radical coupling. Furthermore, kraft lignin was found to contain substantial amounts of chemically linked fatty acids. By complementary analyses of sulphur and polysulphide in an industrial black liquor, the presence of these compounds throughout a kraft cook was demonstrated.
Inhibition of whole blood platelet-aggregation by compounds in garlic clove extracts and commercial garlic products.	The inhibitory effects of adenosine and 16 quantitatively determined organosulfur compounds derived from garlic cloves or commercial garlic preparations on collagen stimulated in vitro platelet aggregation in whole blood were determined. An estimation of the anti-aggregatory activity of several brands of the major types of commercial garlic preparations was determined from the activities of the individual compounds present in each sample. In platelet rich plasma (PRP) most of the anti-aggregatory activity of garlic clove homogenates was due to adenosine; however, in whole blood neither adenosine nor the polar fraction had any effect and all of the anti-aggregatory activity was due to allicin and other thiosulfinates. Allicin was equally active in whole blood and PRP. Among brands there was a several-fold variation in content of the organosulfur compounds and activity for all types of garlic products tested. The best garlic powder tablets were equally as active as clove homogenates whereas steam-distilled oils were 35% as active and oil-macerates (due to low content) only 12% as active. A garlic product aged many months in aqueous alcohol had no activity. For steam-distilled oils, most of the activity was due to diallyl trisulfide. For the oil-macerates, most of the activity was due largely to the vinyl dithiins. Ajoene, an exclusive component of the oil-macerates, had highest specific activity of all the compounds tested but, because of its low concentration, had only 13% of the activity of diallyl trisulfide and 3% of the activity of allicin. Compounds which may be active in vivo are discussed.
Amino acid residues associated with cluster N3 in the NuoF subunit of the proton-translocating NADH-quinone oxidoreductase from Escherichia coli.	The NuoF subunit, which harbors NADH-binding site, of Escherichia coli NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NDH-1) contains five conserved cysteine residues, four of which are predicted to ligate cluster N3. To determine this coordination, we overexpressed and purified the NuoF subunit and NuoF+E subcomplex in E. coli. We detected two distinct EPR spectra, arising from a [4Fe-4S] cluster (g(x,y,z)=1.90, 1.95, and 2.05) in NuoF, and a [2Fe-2S] cluster (g(x,y,z)=1.92, 1.95, and 2.01) in NuoE subunit. These clusters were assigned to clusters N3 and N1a, respectively. Based on the site-directed mutagenesis experiments, we identified that cluster N3 is ligated to the 351Cx2Cx2Cx40C398 motif.
Alternatives to copper in Scab control affect mineral composition in leaves and fruits of apple varieties with reduced Scab susceptibility or Scab resistance.	Scab (Venturia inaequalis) is the principal disease endangering both integrated and organic apple production. Scab pressure tends to build up over the years and organic farmers rely mainly on copper and sulphur treatments for control. The use of Cu in crop protection received scrutiny in recent years as this metal tends to accumulate in soil and substrates. A number of alternative organic control substances have been proposed, with variable success in scab control. We investigated the effect of these alternative organic scab control measures on several apple varieties with low scab susceptibility. The choice of scab treatments had important effects on the mineral composition of leaves and fruits. As these values affect current and future yield in perennial crops, as well as storage quality, the use of certain scab control agents requires corrective application of nutrients during and in-between growth seasons.
Aspergillus niger as a new allergic agent associated with bindis and its efficacy against homeopathic drugs.	Aspergillus was found as a dominant fungi to associate with brands of bindis. Among three potencies of four homeopathic drugs, Lycopodium 1M, Sulphur 1M, and Sepia 30 showed maximum inhibition zone of Aspergillus niger in inhibition zone technique. In poison food technique, Sepia 30M, Tellurium 30M, Sulphur 1M and Lycopodium 200 showed maximum percentage inhibition against A. niger
Microbial conversion of 5-sulfoisophthalic acid into 5-hydroxyisophthalic acid by Ochrobactrum anthropi S9.	5-Hydroxyisophthalic acid-producing microorganisms were isolated from enrichment cultures using 5-sulfoisophthalic acid as a sulfur source. One bacterium, Ochrobactrum anthropi S9, had the highest 5-sulfoisophthalic acid-degrading activity, and stoichiometrically formed 5-hydroxyisophthalic acid, a raw material for polymer synthesis. Under optimum culture conditions, 1.3 mM 5-hydroxyisophthalic acid accumulated in the medium by 60 h. The addition of Na(2)SO(4), L: -methionine or L: -cysteine at 2 mM inhibited the conversion of 5-sulfoisophthalic acid. O. anthropi S9 cells converted 5-sulfoisophthalic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 3-sulfobenzoic acid, 4-aminobenzenesulfonic acid, naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid and naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid into the corresponding hydroxylated compounds.
Developmental and environmental regulation of pea legumin genes in transgenic tobacco.	Two distinct legumin genes (LegA1 and LegA2) which encode a major class of seed storage protein in pea were isolated from a genomic library. The cloned fragments were introduced into tobacco via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and the regenerated plants were used to study the expression characteristics of the genes in a heterologous host. It was found that both LegA1 and LegA2 were functional members of the pea legumin gene family and that their expression was similar in both pea and transgenic tobacco. Legumin was detected only in the seed of tobacco where the primary translation products were processed in a manner analogous to that which occurs in pea. Legumin gene expression was also shown to be temporally regulated during seed development. Legumin polypeptides and mRNA began to accumulate 16 days after flowering (DAF), in contrast to the endogenous tobacco storage proteins which were apparent at 13 DAF. It was also demonstrated that the legumin genes in tobacco were environmentally regulated to the nutritional status of the plant. As has been previously shown in pea, legumin accumulation in transgenic tobacco seed was progressively reduced when the plants were grown under conditions of increasing severity of sulphur-nutrient stress. The reduced accumulation of protein was correlated with lower levels of legumin mRNA in the developing seed. Despite encoding nearly identical subunits, nucleotide sequence data for LegA1 and LegA2 showed that the similarity of their respective 5'-flanking regions was restricted to several short elements mostly within 240 bp from the start of transcription. However, a deletion series using the LegA1 gene demonstrated that 237 bp of 5'-flanking sequence was insufficient to permit the expression of the legumin gene in tobacco. The data indicated that an as yet unidentified sequence element(s) located between positions -668 and -237 was essential in re-establishing the high level of regulated gene expression observed with the full-length LegA1 gene.
Effects of sulfurous, salty, bromic, iodic thermal water nasal irrigations in nonallergic chronic rhinosinusitis: a prospective, randomized, double-blind, clinical, and cytological study.	Nasal irrigations are mentioned among the adjunctive measures for treating several sinonasal conditions. Hyperchromatic supranuclear stria (HSS) in the ciliated cells (CCs) has recently been suggested as a potential cytological marker of the anatomofunctional integrity of nasal mucosa. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of nasal irrigations with sulfurous, salty, bromic, iodic (SSBI) thermal water or isotonic sodium chloride solution (ISCS) in patients with nonallergic chronic rhinosinusitis, considering the endoscopic, functional, microbiological, and cytological evidence (including the ratio of HSS-positive CCs to total CCs [the HSS+ rate]).
Investigating antibacterial effects of garlic (Allium sativum) concentrate and garlic-derived organosulfur compounds on Campylobacter jejuni by using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and electron microscopy.	Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy were used to study the cell injury and inactivation of Campylobacter jejuni from exposure to antioxidants from garlic. C. jejuni was treated with various concentrations of garlic concentrate and garlic-derived organosulfur compounds in growth media and saline at 4, 22, and 35°C. The antimicrobial activities of the diallyl sulfides increased with the number of sulfur atoms (diallyl sulfide < diallyl disulfide < diallyl trisulfide). FT-IR spectroscopy confirmed that organosulfur compounds are responsible for the substantial antimicrobial activity of garlic, much greater than those of garlic phenolic compounds, as indicated by changes in the spectral features of proteins, lipids, and polysaccharides in the bacterial cell membranes. Confocal Raman microscopy (532-nm-gold-particle substrate) and Raman mapping of a single bacterium confirmed the intracellular uptake of sulfur and phenolic components. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were employed to verify cell damage. Principal-component analysis (PCA), discriminant function analysis (DFA), and soft independent modeling of class analogs (SIMCA) were performed, and results were cross validated to differentiate bacteria based upon the degree of cell injury. Partial least-squares regression (PLSR) was employed to quantify and predict actual numbers of healthy and injured bacterial cells remaining following treatment. PLSR-based loading plots were investigated to further verify the changes in the cell membrane of C. jejuni treated with organosulfur compounds. We demonstrated that bacterial injury and inactivation could be accurately investigated by complementary infrared and Raman spectroscopies using a chemical-based, "whole-organism fingerprint" with the aid of chemometrics and electron microscopy.
Effects of long-term applying sulfur- and chloride-containing chemical fertilizers on weed growth in paddy field]	An investigation was made at a double-rice paddy field in the Qiyang Red Soil Field Experimental Station, Hunan Province, China to study the species and biomass of weeds growing in rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth season after 34-year application of sulfur (SO4(2-)) and chloride (Cl(-))-containing chemical fertilizers under the same application rates of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K). Long-term application of Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer resulted in the greatest species number of weeds and the highest biomass of floating weeds and wet weeds, compared with long-term application of SO4(2-) and Cl(-) +SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers. In early rice growth season, the biomass of weeds after applying Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer was 51.4% and 17.6% higher than that after applying Cl(-) + SO4(2-) and SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers, respectively; in late rice growth season, the increment was 144% and 242%, respectively. More floating weeds were observed after applying Cl(-) + SO4(2-) and SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers, but few of them were found after applying Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer. The total dry mass of weeds and the dry mass of wet weeds were positively correlated with soil Cl(-) content (r = 0.764, P < 0.01 and r = 0.948, P < 0.01, respectively), but negatively correlated with soil SO4(2-)-S content (r = 0.849, P < 0.01 and r = 0.641, P < 0.05). Soil alkali-hydrolyzable N and available P, under the co-effects of soil SO4(2-)-S, Cl(-), and pH, had indirect effects on the total dry mass of weeds. By adopting various fertilization measures to maintain proper soil pH and alkali-hydrolyzable N and available P contents, increase soil SO42(-)-S content, and decrease soil Cl(-) content, it could be possible to effectively inhibit the growth of wet weeds and to decrease the total biomass of weeds in double-rice paddy field.
Population density and phenology of Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae) in hop is linked to the timing of sulfur applications.	The twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, is a worldwide pest of numerous agronomic and horticultural plants. Sulfur fungicides are known to induce outbreaks of this pest on several crops, although mechanisms associated with sulfur-induced mite outbreaks are largely unknown.  Studies were conducted during 2007-2009 in Oregon and Washington hop yards to evaluate the effect of timing of sulfur applications on T. urticae and key predators. In both regions, applications of sulfur made relatively late in the growing season (mid-June to mid-July) were associated  with the greatest exacerbation of spider mite outbreaks, particularly in the upper canopy of the crop. The severity of mite outbreaks was closely associated with sulfur applications made during a relatively narrow time period coincident with the early exponential phase of spider mite increase  and rapid host growth. A nonlinear model relating mean cumulative mite days during the time of sulfur sprays to the percent increase in total cumulative mite days (standardized to a nontreated plot) explained 58% of the variability observed in increased spider mite severity related to sulfur  spray timing. Spatial patterns of spider mites in the Oregon plots indicated similar dispersal of motile stages of spider mites among leaves treated with sulfur versus nontreated leaves; however, in two of three years, eggs were less aggregated on leaves of sulfur-treated plants, pointing  to enhanced dispersal. Apart from one experiment in Washington, relatively few predatory mites were observed during the course of these studies, and sulfur-induced mite outbreaks generally occurred irrespective of predatory mite abundance. Collectively, these studies indicate sulfur induces  mite outbreaks through direct or indirect effects on T. urticae, mostly independent of predatory mite abundance or toxicity to these predators. Avoidance of exacerbation of spider mite outbreaks by sulfur sprays was achieved by carefully timing applications to periods of low spider mite abundance  and slower host development, which is generally early to mid-spring for hop.
Effects of nutrient and lime additions in mine site rehabilitation strategies on the accumulation of antimony and arsenic by native Australian plants.	The effects of nutrient and lime additions on antimony (Sb) and arsenic (As) accumulation by native Australian and naturalised plants growing in two contaminated mine site soils (2,735 mg kg(-1) and 4,517 mg kg(-1) Sb; 826 mg kg(-1) and 1606 As mgkg(-1)) was investigated using a glasshouse pot experiment. The results indicated an increase in soil solution concentrations with nutrient addition in both soils and also with nutrient+lime addition for Sb in one soil. Metalloid concentrations in plant roots were significantly greater than concentrations in above ground plant parts. The metalloid transfer to above ground plant parts from the roots and from the soil was, however, low (ratio of leaf concentration/soil concentration≪1) for all species studied. Eucalyptus michaeliana was the most successful at colonisation with lowest metalloid transfer to above ground plant parts. Addition of nutrients and nutrients+lime to soils, in general, increased plant metalloid accumulation. Relative As accumulation was greater than that of Sb. All the plant species studied were suitable for consideration in the mine soil phytostabilisation strategies but lime additions should be limited and longer term trials also recommended.
Regulation of Trichophyton rubrum proteolytic activity.	Trichophyton rubrum is the most common dermatophyte of humans and normally colonizes the superficial layers of the epidermis (stratum corneum). Several proteinases with a possible role in the metabolism of host proteins have been purified from this fungus. The regulation of these enzymes and their role in fungal metabolism were studied at the biochemical level. General proteolytic (azocollytic) activity was repressed when log-phase cultures of T. rubrum were grown in a minimal medium that contained readily metabolized sources of carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, and phosphorus. When either carbon, nitrogen, or sulfur was deleted from this minimal medium, azocollytic activity was derepressed. In all cases a high-molecular-weight activity (Mr, greater than 200,000) was expressed. A 71,000-Mr proteinase was observed in nitrogen-depleted cultures, and proteolytic species of Mr 124,000 and 27,000 were secreted in sulfur-depleted cultures. The addition of either inorganic (MgSO4, Na2SO3, NaS2O3) or organic (methionine, cysteine) sulfur to the sulfur-depleted medium repressed the expression of azocollytic activity. In contrast, keratinolytic activity was not repressed by carbon, nitrogen, or sulfur but instead was induced when a protein source was included in the minimal medium. Stationary-phase cultures of T. rubrum secreted all proteolytic activities constitutively. Unlike log-phase cultures, the stationary-phase cultures secreted azocollytic, elastinolytic, and keratinolytic activity in minimal medium. These activities fell in the carbon-, nitrogen-, and phosphorous-depleted media but remained high in sulfur-depleted medium. The following model is proposed for the regulation of T. rubrum proteolytic activity. In the initial stages of infection, T. rubrum grows logarithmically. In this state, proteolytic activity is derepressed whenever carbon, nitrogen, or sulfur is lacking in the fungal milieu. The general proteinases produced would act on the nonkeratinous proteins in the stratum corneum. There are probably peptidases, as yet unidentified, that would cleave the peptides generated by the initial proteolysis into amino acids. These amino acids would provide the cell with a source of carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur. Under these conditions, the expression of general proteinases would be repressed, whereas specific keratinases would be induced in this nutrient-rich environment. Disease may occur when the fungus reaches stationary phase, when proteinases are secreted constitutively. These enzymes may directly or indirectly incite a host response, resulting in the inflammatory manifestations of dermatophytosis.
The effect of vaporization with thermal sulfurous water on phospholipids in the broncho-alveolar lavage solution following hypobaric hypoxia in the rat]	We have studied, in the rat, the action of a vaporization with sulphurous water from Bagnères de Luchon on the surfactant modifications caused by hypoxia. The phospholipase activity, subordinate to hypoxia, decreased by 1/5 compared to its value without treatment and the phospholipid composition of the broncho-alveolar lung lavage remained unchanged whereas after hypoxia without treatment the phosphatidylcholines level decreases by 26%. We demonstrated by a dose-response study that this protective action decreased with the thermal water dilution. We also showed that this effect could not be due to the only action of reduced sulphur: different concentrations of sulphur solutions had no action on the phospholipase A activity subordinate to hypoxia. So we can conclude that a vaporization with sulphurous water had a protective action against hypoxia on the broncho-alveolar lavage of rat lung.
Desthiobiotin transformation to biotin by the fungus Rhizopus delemar]	The object of this work was to study the transformation of desthiobiotin (DTB), a biotin precursor, to biotin by Rhizopus delemar which can accumulate rather large quantities of biotin in the medium. Both the growing and resting culture transform DTB at a high rate. Biotin excretion by the resting culture rises by 100% when 25 micrograms/ml of DTB are added to the medium. The content of biotin within the cells remains unchanged. L-Methionine, sodium sulfite and sodium sulfate are most effective sulfur donors for DTB transformation by the resting culture. Cystine, cysteine and elementary sulfur cannot serve as sulfur donors. The transforming activity of the mycelium is preserved for about seven days. Immobilization of the cells in agar gel and in porolon does not increase the time within which the mycelium remains in the active state.
Inhibition of the RNA dependent DNA polymerase and the malignant transforming ability of Rous sarcoma virus by thiosemicarbazone-transition metal complexes.	Several thiosemicarbazone-metal complexes inhibit the RNA dependent DNA polymerase and the transforming ability of Rous sarcoma virus. Some complexes are equally as active as the free ligand whereas the activity of others is greatly enhanced. The 2-formyl pyridine thiosemicarbazone copper (II) complex is the most potent compound of this class that we tested. Some copper complexes of salicylaldehyde derivatives are very active also, particularly N-n-butyl, N-n-hexyl and N-benzylsalicylaldimine; no nickel complex of any salicylaldehyde compound is active. In addition, other metal ligands, such as dithizone, diacetyl bis (mercaptoethylimine), N-butyl thiocarbamate, 0,0' dimethyl dithiophosphate, potassium dithiooxalate, and cis-PtII(NH3)2Cl2 were tested with varying results.
A laser Raman spectroscopic study on the interaction of alkylmercury with thiol and sulfur-containing compounds.	The interaction of the methylmercury cation with sulfur compounds in aqueous solution at physiological pH was studied by laser Raman spectroscopy. Metal binding is shown to occur preferentially at the sulfhydryl group of sulfur compounds. Raman frequencies of S-Hg stretching of the one-to-one methylmercury-sulfhydryl or sulfur-containing complexes were observed at approximately 330 cm-1. There was no frequency shift when ligands were exchanged. However, the relative intensity (I S-Hg/I C-Hg) was different. The relative intensities of MeHg-thioglycerol, MeHg-cysteine and MeHg-2-mercaptobenzothiazole were 0.18, 0.43 and 0.62, respectively. Methyl-mercury shifted from combination states of lager relative intensity to ones of smaller relative intensity. These results may cast light on the distribution and excretion mechanisms of methylmercury in the human body.
Comparative inhibition patterns of adenylate kinases from mammals, bird, fish and microorganisms.	The S8 inhibitions of AKs from six different sources were studied in mammals, birds, fish, and a microorganism. All AKs tested were inhibited by S8. Except for carp, all inhibited AKs from those tested were reactivated by DTT. Inhibitions of AKs by other hydrophobic inhibitors, NEM, butanol and ethanol were also studied. The inhibitions by S8 suggest that the hydrophobic pockets in the AKs cover a wide phylogenetic range. All inhibitions by S8 are reactivated by DTT. Unlike the inhibitions by S8, the characteristics of inhibitions by the other hydrophobic inhibitors differed among the AK sources tested and none was the irreversible type. The data suggest that no covalent bonds were formed with NEM. Similarly, the ability to reactivate the inhibitions by DTT differed among the AK sources. The possibility that the hydrophobic domains in the AKs may serve as part of an enzyme activity control mechanism is discussed.
Proton stopping powers in some low-Z elements.	For some calculations, the proton stopping power in tissue must be known accurately. The composition of tissue was assumed to be constituted of 11 elements; the proton stopping powers were available for hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. Those for the remaining 7 elements for the energy range 0.5 to 10 MeV at intervals of 0.5 MeV are evaluated and presented in this paper. Corrections such as the Barkas effect correction, Bloch's correction, and shell correction are evaluated and used in the calculation of proton stopping powers. Corrections for the Bethe formula for heavy ions were suggested by Barkas et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 11, 26, 1963) when they observed that the stopping powers for positive ions were larger than those for the negative ions with identical velocities. They suggested that a charge-dependent correction term be incorporated in the Bethe formula. Theoretical estimates of this correction derived by Ashley et al. (Phys. Rev. 85, 2392-2397, 1972) were used in the calculation of the Barkas effect. The Barkas effect correction depends on projectile velocity and Z. It decreases with energy. To account for the discrepancy between the classical and the quantum mechanical treatment of the Bethe formula, Bloch (Ann. Phys. 285, Chap. 18, 1933) suggested a correction to the stopping-power formula; this correction is also evaluated in this paper. Bloch's correction also decreases with energy. The shell correction needed for the binding of the electrons in the target atom is also calculated using Walske's asymptotic formula taking into account the screening effect of the atomic electrons of the K and L shells of the target atom. A computer program was written to calculate the stopping powers of protons with all these corrections for seven low-Z elements which are part of the tissue composition. These values are compared with those of other authors, and fairly good agreement is found. The lack of sufficient experimental information and uncertainty in the mean excitation energy values and shell corrections area are some of the causes for the differences in the evaluation of stopping power by the different authors.
Impact of organosulfur compounds in garlic on canine mammary tumor cells in culture.	Six organosulfur compounds found in garlic were examined for their ability to alter the growth of canine mammary tumor cells (CMT-13) in culture. Water-soluble organosulfur compounds (S-allyl-cysteine, S-ethyl-cysteine and S-propyl-cysteine) did not significantly alter the growth of CMT-13 cells when added to cultures at 1.0 mM or less. However, oil-soluble organosulfur compounds (diallyl sulfide, diallyl disulfide and diallyl trisulfide) markedly inhibited growth. Increasing addition of diallyl disulfide (DADS) resulted in a progressive decrease in CMT-13 cell growth. Addition of glutathione before DADS markedly decreased the severity of the growth inhibition. Treatment with DL-buthionine-SR-sulfoxamine, a specific inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, accentuated the growth inhibition caused by DADS. These studies show that some organosulfur compounds found in garlic are effective inhibitors of the growth of the neoplastic CMT-13 cell. The inhibitory effects of these compounds are modified by intracellular glutathione.
Downstream elements from the pea albumin 1 gene confer sulfur responsiveness on a reporter gene.	The levels of mRNAs for some of the sulfur-rich proteins in seeds are regulated by the level of sulfur supplied to the plants. In peas, there is a mechanism that lowers the level of mRNA for legumin and pea albumin 1 (PA1) when plants are grown under sulfur-deficient conditions. This mechanism acts after transcription initiation. In this study, a gene encoding PA1 was expressed in leaves of transgenic tobacco. Expression of the gene was controlled by the level of sulfur supplied to the plants, mimicking the behaviour of the intact gene in peas. A gene encoding a different high-sulfur protein, ovalbumin, was unresponsive to sulfur status and was used as a reporter gene to test defined regions of the PA1 gene for sulfur responsiveness. These constructs, together with a set of PA1 gene deletions, were tested in transgenic tobacco and yielded the following observations: the PA1 gene was sensitive to sulfur status in the leaf as well as the seed; intron processing of the PA1 transcript was not required for sensitivity to sulfur stress; both the coding region and the 3' flanking regions of the PA1 gene contained sequences which conferred sensitivity to sulfur stress; the sulfur-responsive sequence in the 3' region was contained within a 134-nucleotide segment downstream of the end of the coding sequence. We conclude that there are at least two downstream elements which confer sensitivity to sulfur supply.
Effect of sulfur nutrition for sulfoxide accumulation in garlic bulbs]	The influence of the sulphur nutrition conduction upon sulphoxides accumulation in the garlic bulbs was studied. It was found that application of sulphur as ammonium sulphate in quantity up to 75-100 kg S/ha induced proportional increase of sulphoxides in bulbs from 3.03 up to 4.57 mg/g. Subsequent increasing of the sulphur doses applied did not induce any trustworthy changes. When potassium sulphate was used for feeding similar results were obtained. The potassium and nitrogen increase equivalent to the amounts of them applied together with sulphur did not induce any trustworthy changes too. Also it was registered the garlic variety sulphur nutrition specificity, that was closely connected with degree of the floral spear development. So, in the bulbs of non-spear-forming variety (Ukrainian white) the maximal increasing of the sulphoxide content was 78.6% against control whereas for Boguslavsky 10, the variety with most advanced floral spear (with height up to 125 cm), the increasing of sulphoxides was only 43.6%.
