A new rat mutant with chronic conjugated hyperbilirubinemia and renal glomerular lesions.	A new mutant strain of inbred Sprague Dawley rats with autosomal recessive hyperbilirubinuria, were studied by biochemical, histologic, and ultrastructural methods. The plasma bilirubin concentration in the homozygote was significantly higher than that of the heterozygote, and about 80% of the bilirubin was conjugated. Plasma BSP and ICG clearance were both severely delayed in the homozygote. Plasma BSP elimination kinetics suggested that the pathophysiologic defect was not hepatic uptake or storage but rather in secretion into bile. Histopathology of the liver demonstrated brown pigment in the hepatocytes that appeared to be lipofuscin. The electron microscopic features of the hepatic pigment resembled those of the Dubin-Johnson syndrome. Homozygote histopathology also revealed glomerular lesions with mesangial expansion and proliferation in the kidneys. Immunohistologic studies disclosed mesangial granular deposition of IgG, IgA, and to a lesser degree, IgM and C3. These renal changes resembled those of IgA nephropathy. The spontaneous hyperbilirubinuric rat (EHBR) may be a useful animal model for studying constitutive conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, bilirubin metabolism, cholestasis, and glomerulonephropathy subsequent to hepatic dysfunction.
Lack of biliary lipid excretion in the little skate, Raja erinacea, indicates the absence of functional Mdr2, Abcg5, and Abcg8 transporters.	The ABC transporters bile salt export pump (BSEP; encoded by the ABCB11 gene), MDR3 P-glycoprotein (ABCB4), and sterolin 1 and 2 (ABCG5 and ABCG8) are crucial for the excretion of bile salt, phospholipid, and cholesterol, respectively, into the bile of mammals. The current paradigm is that phospholipid excretion mainly serves to protect membranes of the biliary tree against bile salt micelles. Bile salt composition and cytotoxicity, however, differ greatly between species. We investigated whether biliary phospholipid and cholesterol excretion occurs in a primitive species, the little skate, which almost exclusively excretes the sulphated bile alcohol scymnolsulphate. We observed no phospholipid and very little cholesterol excretion into bile of these animals. Conversely, when scymnolsulphate was added to the perfusate of isolated mouse liver perfusions, it was very well capable of driving biliary phospholipid and cholesterol excretion. Furthermore, in an erythrocyte cytolysis assay, scymnolsulphate was found to be at least as cytotoxic as taurocholate. These results demonstrate that the little skate does not have a system for the excretion of phospholipid and cholesterol and that both the MDR3 and the two half-transporter genes, ABCG5 and ABCG8, have evolved relatively late in evolution to mediate biliary lipid excretion. Little skate plasma membranes may be protected against bile salt micelles mainly by their high sphingomyelin content.
ATP-dependent organic anion transport system in normal and TR- rat liver canalicular membranes.	Many non-bile acid organic anions enter hepatocytes, where they are converted into polar conjugates and preferentially secreted into bile. ATP-dependent and membrane potential-dependent transport of non-bile acid organic anions across the plasma membrane of rat hepatocytes was studied in canalicular (CMV) or sinusoidal membrane vesicles (SMV) using sulfobromophthalein (BSP), a representative non-bile acid organic anion. Temperature-dependent, osmotically sensitive, saturable, ATP-dependent, and unidirectional (inside to outside) BSP transport was observed in CMV but not in SMV. Apparent Michaelis constants for ATP and BSP were 0.26 mM and 31 microM, respectively. ATP-dependent BSP transport was inhibited by oxidized glutathione, dinitrophenyl-glutathione (GSDNP), BSP glutathione, and bilirubin diglucuronide but not by daunomycin, taurocholate, and reduced glutathione. Inhibition by GSDNP and bilirubin diglucuronide was competitive, with apparent inhibitor constants of 41 and 4.2 microM, respectively. CMV from normal rats demonstrated ATP-dependent and membrane potential-dependent BSP transport that was additive. CMV from TR- rats lacked ATP-dependent BSP transport but retained membrane potential-dependent transport of non-bile acid organic anions as well as ATP-dependent transport mechanisms for organic cations (i.e., daunomycin) and bile acids (i.e., taurocholate).
Clinical expression of co-inherited Dubin-Johnson and thalassaemic heterozygous states.	Dubin-Johnson syndrome is a worldwide prevalent familial conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia. The identification of multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 provided an understanding of the complex metabolic impairment involved in this syndrome. We report the first family with modified clinical expression of Dubin-Johnson heterozygous state due to genotypic interaction with co-inherited beta and deltabeta thalassaemia, an interaction that has never been described.
Effect of simultaneous Tc-99m diethyl-IDA and sulfobromophthalein administration on liver excretory function in rats.	Competition of diethyl-IDA and BSP during their synchronous passage through the liver was examined on an animal model. Rats were divided in three groups, according to the amount of diethyl-IDA or BSP administered. No significant influence of diethyl-IDA on the liver uptake of BSP was noticed compared to the controls, while BSP demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect on diethyl-IDA plasma-activity decrease. On the biliary pole of hepatocyte, a reciprocal inhibitory influence of both compounds was present, with significantly diminished biliary excretion of both BSP and diethyl-IDA. As the input of BSP was not decreased, there evidently appeared a storage of BSP within the liver. A mathematical model of both plasma and bile changes of the concentration (or activity) of these compounds was also proposed. For the vascular compartment the model is correct, while biliary excretion of diethyl-IDA is significantly changed in presence of BSP and the satisfactory fit cannot be easily obtained.
Role of melatonin in the oxidative damage prevention at different times of hepatic regeneration.	The process of regenerating liver is the result of a balance between stimulating factors and inhibitors of hepatocyte proliferation. Melatonin and its metabolites have been found to protect tissues against oxidative damage generated by a variety of toxic agents and metabolic processes. Furthermore, studies in liver of rats showed a decrease in the liver mitochondrial hydroxylation of drugs returning to the normal state after the administration of antioxidants. This study was designed to determine, in experimental animals, whether the administration of an antioxidant agent such as melatonin could prevent cells events leading to tissue injury and hepatic dysfunction after partial hepatectomy (PH). Biliary flow (BF), oxidative stress in hepatic tissue and Na⁺/K⁺ ATPase activities in whole plasma membrane were determined. PH decreased the Na⁺/K⁺ ATPase activity. PH significantly reduced the BF (36%) and promoted oxidative stress with an increase of lipoperoxidation and decrease of glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities. Treatment with melatonin prevented the decrease of BF in rats with hepatectomy and normalized the Na⁺/K⁺ ATPase activity. Moreover, melatonin markedly attenuated oxidative stress produced by PH. This may be the results of the higher efficacy of melatonin in scavenging various free radicals and also because of its ability in stimulating the antioxidant enzymes. We suggest that oxidative stress before and during liver regeneration has a crucial role in cholestasis, apoptotic/necrotic hepatocellular damage and the impairment in liver transport function induced by PH and that melatonin could modulate the degree of oxidative stress and through it prevent the alterations in liver function carrier.
Sex steroid modulation of the hepatic uptake of organic anions in rat.	To investigate the role of sex steroids in the sex-related difference in the hepatic uptake of organic anions, sulphobromophthalein (bromsulphalein, BSP) transport was measured in hepatocytes isolated from rats either deprived of hormonal influence by castration at prepubertal age or after hormonal substitution. In control animals, the kinetics of BSP uptake showed the presence of two components: one saturable (0-3 microM), with high affinity and low capacity, and the other linear (9-30 microM), probably related to the non-specific component of BSP uptake. Sex difference was detected only in the saturable portion of the uptake process as the apparent Km was significantly lower in females than in males (3.8 +/- 0.7 vs. 6.1 +/- 1.8 microM, mean +/- S.D. of six animals, P less than 0.01). In contrast, no difference was observed in Vmax (2.3 +/- 0.3 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.7 nmol BSP.(mg protein)-1.min-1). Castration was associated with the disappearance of the saturable uptake site and abolished the sex difference. Progesterone treatment of castrated males failed to restore the saturable kinetics of BSP uptake. In contrast, administration of oestradiol to castrated males or testosterone to castrated females did restore the saturable kinetics of the high-affinity BSP uptake. Km and Vmax were comparable to those of adult females and males, respectively, with the exception of testosterone which induced a Vmax value higher than that observed in the other groups of animals. These data suggest that the influence of oestrogen and testosterone is necessary for the expression of the high-affinity, low-capacity carrier-mediated process of hepatic BSP uptake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serum bile acid concentrations in dairy cattle with hepatic lipidosis.	This study was designed to evaluate serum bile acid measurements as indicatory, of liver function and/or hepatic fat infiltration in dairy cattle. Serum bile acid concentrations were measured in healthy dairy cattle at different stages of lactation after fasting or feeding. Bile acid concentrations were compared with liver fat content and sulfobromophthalein (BSP) half-life (T 1/2). Serum bile acid concentrations were higher in cows in early lactation and with higher daily milk production. Compared with prefasting values, bile acid concentrations were decreased at 8, 14, and 24 hours of fasting. Blood samples from fed cows at 1- to 2-hour intervals had wide and inconsistent variations in bile acid concentration. Because serum bile acids correlated well with BSP T 1/2, it is suggested that both measurements evaluate a similar aspect of liver function. Neither bile acids nor BSP T 1/2 correlated with differences in liver fat content among cows. Because of large variability in serum bile acid concentrations in fed cows and the lack of correlation of measured values with liver fat content, bile acid determinations do not appear useful for showing changes in hepatic function in fed cows with subclinical hepatic lipidosis nor serve as a screening test for this condition.
Unbound ligand drives hepatocyte taurocholate and BSP uptake at physiological albumin concentration.	We have recently shown (D. Sorrentino, R.B. Robinson, C.-L. Kiang, and P.D. Berk. J. Clin. Invest. 84: 1325-1333, 1989) that, in a variety of isolated cell types, the uptake of oleate at physiological albumin concentrations is consistent with traditional pharmacokinetic theory (i.e., driven by unbound ligand). Lower albumin concentrations were associated with a deviant uptake pattern for which alternative theories have been proposed. Whether other classes of organic anions exhibit similar behavior is unknown. Therefore, we examined the effect of albumin on uptake of two widely studied organic anions, sulfobromophthalein (BSP) and taurocholate. Initial uptake velocity of [35S]BSP and [3H]taurocholate by isolated hepatocytes was studied employing a fixed albumin concentration and ligand-to-albumin molar ratios from 0.01:1 to 2:1 for taurocholate and 0.031:1 to 0.75:1 for BSP. In other experiments, albumin and ligand were altered in parallel, keeping their molar ratio constant. Unbound taurocholate concentrations were measured directly by equilibrium dialysis; unbound BSP concentrations were calculated from published data (K.J. Baker and S.E. Bradley. J. Clin. Invest. 45: 281-287, 1966). At 600 microM albumin, uptake of both ligands was a function of the unbound ligand concentration. At low ligand-to-albumin molar ratios and consequent unbound ligand concentrations this relationship was linear; over the entire range of unbound ligand concentrations studied, both ligands exhibited Michaelis-Menten kinetics, with definable maximal velocity and Michaelis constant values. At low albumin concentrations, the relationships between uptake and unbound ligand were unchanged for taurocholate; however, BSP exhibited altered kinetics similar to those observed with oleate. Nontraditional uptake kinetics at low albumin concentrations appear to correlate with very high affinity for albumin.
Maternal undernutrition during late pregnancy in sheep. Its relationship to maternal condition, gestation length, hepatic physiology and glucose metabolism.	There is a paucity of information on the metabolic effects of undernutrition of the ewe carrying multiple fetuses in late pregnancy. In the present study the effects of induction of ketosis from 132 d gestation in ewes carrying twin fetuses were compared with a control group. The ewes were well fed up to 132 d. Ketotic ewes showed a loss of condition score from 3.7 (SE 0.11) at 130 d gestation to 3.0 (SE 0.15) 10 d later after clinical recovery, compared with control twin-pregnant ewes (P < 0.01). The weight loss during the same time period was from 70.6 (SE 2.7) kg at 130 d to 64.2 (SE 2.7) kg at 140.d gestation. As expected, both groups lost weight and condition score in the first 28 d of lactation. Induction of ketosis caused a significant shortening of the gestation period to 142.8 (SE 0.7) d compared with 150 (SE 0.4) d in normal twin-pregnant ewes (P < 0.001). Ewes with induced ketosis recovered clinically and showed a normal feed intake by 3.4 (SE 0.07) d; three required treatment. Induction of ketosis resulted in reduction of hepatic uptake of bromosulphthalein (P < 0.01) and its biliary excretion (P < 0.05), metabolic clearance rate (P < 0.001), fractional clearance (P < 0.001) and 15 and 30 min retention compared with control twin-pregnant ewes. Most values had returned to normal by the first week of lactation. It is thought that in human pregnancy similar changes in bromosulphthalein clearance may be related to reduced binding sites for bromosulphthalein in the liver caused by increased circulating oestrogens. Induction of ketosis resulted in a significant hypoglycaemic (P < 0.01), ketotic (P < 0.001) state compared with well-fed twin-pregnant ewes. These changes could be correlated with the severity of the clinical signs, together with a significant rise in plasma urea (P < 0.001) and NH3 (P < 0.05) concentrations. Again, the return of most of these values to normal by the first week of lactation lends support to the reversibility of hepatic lesions caused by fatty infiltration of the liver. The severity of this condition in naturally occurring cases suggests that factors other than undernutrition may be contributory, such as the general body condition of the ewe and glucose metabolism by the liver, including the conversion of propionate to glucose.
Hepatic transport of serum bilirubin, bromsulfophthalein, and indocyanine green in patients with congenital non-hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia and patients with constitutional indocyanine green excretory defect.	We carried out a retrospective study of 71 patients with congenital non-hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia who had been treated at our institution over the 25 years from 1965 to 1990. Twenty patients had Gilbert's syndrome, 1 had Crigler-Najjar syndrome, 1 had new type unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia, 21 had Dubin-Johnson syndrome, and 28 had Rotor's syndrome. We also reviewed 20 patients with constitutional indocyanine green (ICG) excretory defect. The study focused on the hepatic transport of serum bilirubin, bromsulfophthalein (BSP), and ICG. In Dubin-Johnson syndrome, a defect appeared in late-stage transport, while uptake and storage capacity were normal. In Rotor's syndrome, defects were found in the early stage, and storage capacity was reduced, while excretion into bile was slightly suppressed. A secondary rise in serum ICG was seen in 5 of the 10 patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome. The transport defect in Gilbert's syndrome was unclear. It could not be considered to be homogeneous, but it may exist at multiple sites, from the conjugation with serum proteins to excretion into bile. Following phenobarbital administration, the ICG secondary rise in the 5 patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome disappeared, and ICG was rapidly cleared from blood. However, in patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome, BSP clearance in serum did not show any change before and after phenobarbital administration. ICG excretion in patients with constitutional ICG excretory defect was due only to the impairment o ICG transport, and the defect was suggested to be hepatic uptake. These results indicate that studies of the hepatic transport of bilirubin, BSP, and ICG are useful for determining the etiological factors involved in congenital hyperbilirubinemia and constitutional ICG excretory defect.
