Observation of idiopathic full-thickness macular hole closure in early postoperative period as evaluated by optical coherence tomography.	To report the optical coherence tomography (OCT)-determined progressive changes in a macular hole (MH) following vitreous surgery with a gas tamponade. Observational case report.
Long-term results following pars plana vitrectomy with platelet concentrate in pediatric patients with traumatic macular hole.	To describe the long-term clinical course in children with a traumatic macular hole after vitrectomy with platelet concentrate.
Morphological changes in the optic disc after vitrectomy and fluid-air exchange.	Although many investigators have previously reported various ocular complications induced by vitrectomy, little is known about post-operative morphological changes in the optic disc. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of vitrectomy and fluid-air (F-A) exchange on the post-operative morphology of the optic disc.
Retinal detachment associated with macular hole in high myopia: using the vitreous anatomy to optimize the surgical approach.	To evaluate the efficacy of different surgical strategies on the postoperative outcomes of retinal detachments (RDs) associated with macular holes (MHs) in high myopia.
Foveal reattachment after macula-off retinal detachment occurs faster after vitrectomy than after buckle surgery.	To investigate the time course of foveal reattachment after successful surgery for macula-off retinal detachments.
Predictive visual outcome after macula-off retinal detachment surgery using optical coherence tomography.	To determine whether preoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT) is useful in predicting postoperative visual outcome for patients with primary macula-off rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RD).
Vitrectomy with silicone oil or sulfur hexafluoride gas in eyes with severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy: results of a randomized clinical trial. Silicone Study Report 1.	Between September 1985 and September 1987, 101 eyes with rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and severe (with a classification of at least C-3) proliferative vitreoretinopathy but without prior vitrectomy were treated with vitrectomy and randomized to either a mixture of 20% sulfur hexafluoride gas and air or to 1000 centistokes of silicone oil. Between 50% and 60% of eyes that received silicone oil had visual acuity better than or equal to 5/200 compared with 30% to 40% of the eyes that received sulfur hexafluoride gas (P less than .05). Macula attachment was more frequent in eyes that received silicone oil than in those that received sulfur hexafluoride gas (80% vs 60%, P less than .05). Hypotony was more prevalent in eyes with a detached macula (40% to 50% for sulfur hexafluoride gas vs 25% to 30% for silicone oil) when compared with those with attached maculas (less than 5% for either modality). Keratopathy was more prevalent in eyes with detached maculas (about 55% to 60% for either modality) compared with eyes with attached maculas (25% to 30% for sulfur hexafluoride gas vs 10% to 15% for silicone oil). In a companion article, we show that these differences between a gas tamponade and silicone oil are not found for perfluoropropane gas.
Characterization of benign hepatic tumors arising in fatty liver with SonoVue and pulse inversion US.	We describe the spectrum of contrast-enhancement patterns of benign hepatic tumors arising in fatty liver on contrast-enhanced ultrasound (US).
Treatment of stage 2 macular hole by intravitreous injection of expansile gas and induction of posterior vitreous detachment.	To demonstrate the morphological and functional outcomes of intravitreous injection of an expansile gas bubble for the treatment of stage 2 macular holes.
Pneumatic displacement of submacular hemorrhage due to age-related macular degeneration.	Subretinal hemorrhage is one of the most serious complications of exudative age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Treatment with vitreous surgery with or without plasminogen activator, fluid-gas exchange, or perfluorocarbon yields only a small improvement in visual acuity.
Spectacle-induced ocular trauma: an unusual mechanism.	To report an unusual, spectacle-related injury.
Enhancing effects of SonoVue, a microbubble sonographic contrast agent, on high-intensity focused ultrasound ablation in rabbit livers in vivo.	The purpose of this study was to explore the enhancing biological effects of SonoVue (Bracco SpA, Milan, Italy), a sulfur hexafluoride sonographic contrast agent, on high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation in vivo.
Additional gas injection after failed macular hole surgery with internal limiting membrane peeling.	To report the efficacy of additional intravitreal gas injection in eyes where primary failure occurred following apparently successful macular hole surgery.
Management of submacular hemorrhage with intravitreal injection of tissue plasminogen activator and expansile gas.	To evaluate the clinical outcome of intravitreal tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and expansile gas injection as a minimally invasive treatment for submacular hemorrhage (SMH).
Analysis of forces acting upon submacular hemorrhage in pneumatic displacement.	To analyze the forces affecting pneumatic displacement of submacular hemorrhage and determine an efficient postoperative positioning method for patients.
Evaluation of breast lesions with contrast-enhanced ultrasound using the microvascular imaging technique: initial observations.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of contrast-enhanced ultrasound using the microvascular imaging technique in the diagnosis of breast lesions. In 104 patients with 104 breast lesions scheduled for surgery, conventional and contrast-enhanced ultrasound using the microvascular imaging technique were performed after administration of SonoVue. The enhancement patterns of breast lesions were classified as no enhancement, peripheral enhancement, homogeneous enhancement, regional enhancement, or heterogeneous enhancement based on the morphologic features of enhancement. The diagnostic value of contrast-enhanced ultrasound using the microvascular imaging technique was analyzed with the observers blinded to the clinical data and pathology (which served as the gold standard). None of the enhancement patterns was suggestive of benignity, with a sensitivity of 18.3%, specificity of 97.7%, positive predictive value (PPV) of 91.7%, negative predictive value (NPV) of 46.2%, and accuracy of 51.5%. The peripheral enhancement pattern was suggestive of malignancy, with a sensitivity of 39.5%, specificity of 98.3%, PPV of 94.4%, NPV of 69.4%, and accuracy of 73.8%. Homogeneous, regional, and heterogeneous enhancement patterns did not show meaningful diagnostic information. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound using the microvascular imaging technique provides diagnostic information on breast lesions.
Pars plana vitrectomy, subretinal injection of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator and fluid-gas exchange in the management of massive submacular hemorrhages secondary to age-related macular degeneration]	The natural prognosis of eyes with subretinal hemorrhage resulting from age-related macular degeneration is generally poor. A variety of therapeutic approaches have been developed but no consensus was found. Therefore, we evaluated a technique consisting of pars plana vitrectomy and subretinal rt-PA injection followed by evacuation of the liquid blood using sulfur hexafluoride (SF6).
Pneumatic retinopexy: experience in southwest Oklahoma.	Pneumatic retinopexy is a procedure which can be utilized as an alternative to scleral buckling to repair retinal detachment. It offers the advantages of being less invasive and is easily performed under local anesthesia on an outpatient basis. We enjoyed an initial success rate of reattachment in five of six eyes with this procedure. One case experienced late redetachment, and a subsequent case experienced early redetachment from development of new retinal breaks. Six cases were successfully reattached in one or two procedures, and all cases were reattached in three procedures. All patients experienced stable or improved vision with pneumatic retinopexy.
Pars plana vitrectomy in the treatment of severe complicated toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis.	To present the anatomic and functional results of pars plana vitrectomy performed in severe complicated toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis.
Intraocular gas dynamics after 20-gauge and 23-gauge vitrectomy with sulfur hexafluoride gas tamponade.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the intraocular gas dynamics after 23-gauge transconjunctival sutureless vitrectomy (TSV) as compared with 20-gauge pars plana vitrectomy (PPV).
Incidence of outer foveal defect after macular hole surgery.	To determine the incidence of outer foveal defects after macular hole surgery and to evaluate the relationship between the defect and visual outcome.
Quantitative assessment of tumor blood flow in mice after treatment with different doses of an antiangiogenic agent with contrast-enhanced destruction-replenishment US.	To quantify tumor blood flow by using contrast material-enhanced destruction-replenishment ultrasonography (US) to evaluate tumor response to different doses of an agent for antiangiogenic treatment in hepatoma-bearing mice, with histologic measurements of microvascular density (MVD) as the reference standard.
Foveal microstructure on spectral-domain optical coherence tomographic images and visual function after macular hole surgery.	To determine the correlation between the recovery of foveal microstructure and the visual acuity or the foveal sensitivity after idiopathic macular hole (MH) closure.
Intraocular pressure changes following 20G pars-plana vitrectomy.	To observe the excursions of short-term intraocular pressure (IOP) after 20-G pars-plana vitrectomy (ppV).
Vitrectomy for optic disk pit with macular schisis and outer retinal dehiscence.	To describe the outcomes of vitrectomy for optic disc pit-related maculopathy with central outer retinal dehiscence.
Descemet membrane detachment among siblings:  role of anatomic and familial predisposition.	To describe 2 siblings with Descemet membrane detachment (DMD) after intraocular surgery and discuss the potential role of anatomic and familial predisposition.
Contrast-enhanced harmonic endoscopic ultrasound.	Second-generation intravenous blood-pool ultrasound contrast agents are increasingly used in endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) for characterization of microvascularization, differential diagnosis of benign and malignant focal lesions, and improving staging and guidance of therapeutic procedures. Although initially used as Doppler signal enhancers, second-generation microbubble contrast agents are now used with specific contrast harmonic imaging techniques, which benefit from the highly nonlinear behavior of the microbubbles. Contrast-specific modes based on multi-pulse technology are used to perform contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS based on a very low mechanical index (0.08 - 0.12). Quantification techniques based on dynamic contrast-enhanced ultrasound have been recommended for perfusion imaging and monitoring of anti-angiogenic treatment, mainly based on time-intensity curve analysis. Most of the clinical applications include the differential diagnosis of focal pancreatic masses, with adenocarcinoma having a distinct hypovascular (hypo-enhanced) appearance compared with neuroendocrine tumors, which are hypervascular (with strong arterial hyper-enhancement). However, pseudotumoral chronic pancreatitis and autoimmune pancreatitis also have an iso- or hypervascular appearance, making the differential diagnosis difficult. Even more promising is the use of dynamic contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS for the longitudinal monitoring of the effects of chemotherapy and/or anti-angiogenic therapy in advanced digestive cancers, which are difficult to examine by conventional cross-sectional imaging techniques.
A comparison of several methods of macular hole measurement using optical coherence tomography, and their value in predicting anatomical and visual outcomes.	To compare several methods of macular hole measurement using optical coherence tomography (OCT), and to assess their predictive capability against anatomical and visual outcomes in a single cohort of patients.
Prognostic factors in vitrectomy for lamellar macular hole assessed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.	To evaluate the association between the macular structure on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-CT) and visual outcome after vitrectomy for lamellar macular hole (LMH).
Evolution of outer retinal folds occurring after vitrectomy for retinal detachment repair.	To assess the evolution of outer retinal folds (ORFs) occurring after repair of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) using spectral domain-optical coherence tomography (sd-OCT) and fundus autofluorescence (FAF), and to discuss their pathogenesis.
Macular hole surgery in patients with end-stage choroideremia.	To assess macular hole surgery in patients with end-stage choroideremia with regard to anatomic closure and visual outcome.
Glial cells and collagens in epiretinal membranes associated with idiopathic macular holes.	To investigate the identity of collagens and cellular components in the epiretinal membrane (ERM) associated with full-thickness idiopathic macular hole and their clinical relevance.
Comparative study of the effects of room air and sulfur hexafluoride gas tamponade on functional and morphological recovery after macular hole surgery: a retrospective study.	To compare the effects of room air and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) gas tamponade on functional and morphological macular recovery after vitrectomy for the treatment of idiopathic macular hole (MH).
Postoperative macular hole formation after vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling for the treatment of epiretinal membrane.	To evaluate the incidence, clinical features, and outcomes of macular hole formation after pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling for the management of epiretinal membrane.
Autologous transplantation of the internal limiting membrane for refractory macular holes.	To determine the effectiveness of autologous transplantation of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) for refractory macular holes.
Multiple subretinal fluid blebs after successful retinal detachment surgery: incidence, risk factors, and presumed pathophysiology.	To investigate the incidence and the clinical factors associated with the occurrence of multiple subretinal fluid (SRF) blebs after successful rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RD) repair.
Retinal displacement toward optic disc after internal limiting membrane peeling for idiopathic macular hole.	To examine the retinal displacement following successful macular hole (MH) surgery with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling and gas tamponade, and to determine the correlation between the extent of displacement and the basal MH size.
Outcomes and complications of pneumatic retinopexy over a 12-year period.	To evaluate anatomic and clinical outcomes of pneumatic retinopexy for treatment of primary retinal detachment.
Double-contrast-enhanced sonography for diagnosis of rectal lesions with pathologic correlation.	Transabdominal sonography with a gastrointestinal contrast agent has been widely used in China for investigation of digestive disorders. Double-contrast-enhanced sonography combines a gastrointestinal luminal contrast agent with an intravenous contrast agent for imaging of lesions. The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the value of double-contrast-enhanced sonography for preoperative diagnosis of rectal lesions.
Pneumatic retinopexy. A collaborative report of the first 100 cases.	The preliminary experience of one surgeon, using pneumatic retinopexy for 20 consecutive cases of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, was previously reported. The collaborative experience of six surgeons using pneumatic retinopexy for 100 cases is now reported. This series includes cases with pseudophakia, aphakia, macular detachment, macular breaks, vitreous hemorrhage, trauma, and old detachments. Initially, 91% were reattached, but seven recurrences yielded a 6-month follow-up cure rate of 84% with pneumatic retinopexy. With subsequent scleral buckling, 98% were reattached. Postoperative complications included proliferative vitreoretinopathy (3%), macular pucker (3%), and new/missed retinal breaks (7%). A review of the literature disclosed postoperative new/missed retinal breaks in nine series: 21, 3, 8, 4, 9, 7, 5, 4, and 13%. There were no cases of glaucoma, cataract, subretinal gas, endophthalmitis, or extension of the detachment into a previously attached macula. Pneumatic retinopexy offers the advantages of reduced tissue trauma, fewer complications, no hospitalization, and less expense. The major disadvantage is the need for postoperative positioning.
Treatment of myopic macular hole and detachment. Intravitreal gas exchange.	Exchanging liquid vitreous with an intravitreal gas bubble was used to treat 19 eyes with retinal detachment caused by myopic macular holes. Twelve retinas were successfully reattached with one exchange, one with a repeated exchange, and three with subsequent conventional pars plana vitrectomy techniques. The procedure was unsuccessful in three patients: two refused additional exchanges or surgery and proliferative vitreoretinopathy developed in one and the retina could not be successfully reattached despite pars plana vitrectomy. Visual improvement 6 months after exchange was limited due to myopic macular degeneration, but a visual acuity of 20/400 was obtained in nine patients and finger counting vision in nine. The eye with proliferative vitreoretinopathy deteriorated to light perception.
Superior bullous retinal detachment: value of the intravitreous injection of sulfur hexafluoride]	15 cases of superior bullous hemi-retinal detachment were repaired during a 16-month period, with a post-operative follow-up of 3-19 months. Intravitreal injection of 0,75-1,5 cc of pure sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6) was performed in 9 cases. The indications for injection at the end of the procedure were: 1) absence of chorioretinal contact in spite of an indentation in the correct position; 2) fishmouth configuration of the retinal break; 3) presence of radial folds over an indentation parallel to the limbus. Only two out of patients required a second operation, due to the development of proliferative vitreoretinopathy. One case was unsuccessful because of a redetachment secondary to massive periretinal proliferation. No complication was observed with the injection of SF 6. In particular, ocular hypertension was avoided by controlling the amount of gas used, always inferior to 2 cc, and postoperative treatment with acetazolamide and topical timolol. The intraocular injection of SF 6 appears to be useful contribution to the surgical treatment of superior bullous hemi-retinal detachment, allowing effective and durable internal tamponade, while avoiding prolonged bedrest.
Surgical results for proliferative vitreoretinopathy.	We reviewed 88 consecutive eyes that underwent vitrectomy for retinal detachment with proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) and were followed a minimum of six months. A primary goal of the surgery was the meticulous trimming of the vitreous base in hopes of decreasing the incidence of post-operative reproliferation and anterior PVR. Those eyes with anterior PVR had aggressive release of vitreous base contraction (anteroposterior and circumferential) with intraocular scissors. All posterior tractional membranes were removed. All eyes received long-acting gas for postoperative retinal tamponade. Macular reattachment was achieved in 78 (88.6%) eyes. Forty-six (52.3%) obtained at least 5/200 vision. Seventeen (19%) eyes were re-operated at least once. We compared the importance of initial lens status (pseudophakic, aphakic, phakic), need for relaxing retinotomy, presence of anterior PVR, and history of previous vitrectomy on the anatomic and visual results. No single factor was responsible for a statistically significant effect on either vision or anatomic success, except for the need for a relaxing retinotomy, which carried with it a decreased chance of an eye obtaining 5/200 vision (Fisher's exact test, p = 0.03).
Behavior of intraocular pressure after internal tamponade with SF6]	The clinical material comprised 22 cases of traumatic retinal detachment, in children aged 5-18 years, in whom after circumferential buckle a mixture of air and SF6 was injected into the vitreous cavity. Intraocular pressure was measured with applanation tonometer before surgery, after gas injection and on consecutive 7 days. On the first day after operation intraocular pressure showed changes, however no increase was recorded in the later period.
Treatment of retinal detachment with macular hole]	The methods and results of surgery in 6 cases of retinal detachment with macular hole are presented. In all 6 cases pars plana vitrectomy was performed, in 4 with subsequent SF6 and in 2 with silicone oil tamponade. Retinal attachment was achieved in 4 eyes. Visual acuity 1/50-2/50 was found after surgery in 5 cases. The follow-up ranged from 6 to 9 months.
Primary vitrectomy for rhegmatogenous retinal detachment associated with choroidal detachment.	This study aimed to report the success rate of primary vitrectomy, scleral buckling, and oral steroids in eyes with combined rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) and choroidal detachment (CD) and to compare these results with those reported in the literature for similar cases managed by scleral buckling alone.
