An extremely stable inorganic pyrophosphatase purified from the cytosol of a thermoacidophilic archaebacterium, Sulfolobus acidocaldarius strain 7.	A highly active inorganic pyrophosphatase was purified to electrophoretical homogeneity from the cytosol of Sulfolobus acidocaldarius strain 7, an extremely thermoacidophilic archaebacterium. The enzyme has an apparent molecular mass of 80 kDa as estimated by gel permeation chromatography, and showed a 21-kDa polypeptide on SDS-PAGE, suggesting that the archaebacterial enzyme is similar to most of the eubacterial pyrophosphatases rather than eukaryotic ones. The pI = 5.1. The enzyme showed relatively high content of Pro and low content of Ser plus Thr. The optimal pH was 6.5 (at 56 degrees C). From the Arrhenius plot an activation energy of 11.2 kcal/mol was obtained between 37-95 degrees C. The specific activity was 617 mumol Pi release min-1 mg-1 at 56 degrees C. The S. acidocaldarius pyrophosphatase was extremely stable. Complete activity remained after incubation at 100 degrees C for 10 min. No dissociation into subunit or unfolding of polypeptide chain occurred in the presence of 8 M urea. Experiments using guanidine-HCl suggested that the transition between a native tetrameric state and an unfolded state is completely reversible, and essentially independent of any additional factors such as divalent metal cation or dithiothreitol.
Adaptive response of the archaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius BC65 to phosphate starvation.	The adaptive response of the archaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius BC65 to phosphate starvation was studied. When cells were subjected to phosphate limitation, their growth was affected. In addition, the levels of synthesis and/or the degree of phosphorylation of several proteins changed, as detected by two-dimensional nonequilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis of cells labelled in vivo with [35S]methionine and [35S]cysteine, or H3 32PO4. After another growth-restricting treatment, a heat shock, a general inhibition of protein synthesis was observed. Under phosphate starvation conditions, a 36 kDa protein became phosphorylated without its synthesis being significantly modified, suggesting a probable regulatory role during adaptation of the cell to the change in the external environment. In Southern blot analysis with specific probes from very conserved regions of the phoR and phoB genes from Escherichia coli, a positive hybridization with S. acidocaldarius BC65 chromosomal DNA fragments was found. This suggested the presence in S. acidocaldarius BC65 of genes related to the E. coli genes involved in the phosphate starvation response system. This appears to be the first evidence of the possible existence of a two-component sensory system in a micro-organism from the archaeal kingdom Crenarchaeota.
