Rates of conversion of sulfur dioxide to sulfate in a scrubbed power plant plume.	The rate of conversion of SO2 to SO4(2-) was re-estimated from measurements made in the plume of the Cumberland power plant, located on the Cumberland River in north-central Tennessee, after installation of flue gas desulfurization (FGD) scrubbers for SO2 removal in 1994. The ratio of SO2 to NOy emissions into the plume has been reduced to approximately 0.1, compared with a prescrubber value of approximately 2. To determine whether the SO2 emissions reduction has correspondingly reduced plume-generated particulate SO4(2-) production, we have compared the rates of conversion before and after scrubber installation. The prescrubber estimates were developed from measurements made during the Tennessee Plume Study conducted in the late 1970s. The postscrubber estimates are based upon two series of research flights in the summers of 1998 and 1999. During two of these flights, the Cumberland plume did not mix with adjacent power plant plumes, enabling rate constants for conversion to be estimated from samples taken in the plume at three downwind distances. Dry deposition losses and the fact the fact that SO2 is no longer in large excess compared with SO4(2-) have been taken into account, and an upper limit for the conversion rate constant was re-estimated based on plume excess aerosol volume. The estimated upper limit values are 0.069 hr(-1) and 0.034 hr(-1) for the 1998 and 1999 data, respectively. The 1999 rate is comparable with earlier values for nonscrubbed plumes, and although the 1998 upper limit value is higher than expected, these estimates do not provide strong evidence for deviation from a linear relationship between SO2 emissions and SO4(2-) formation.
A biomass-supported Na2CO3 sorbent for flue gas desulfurization.	A novel sorbent for SO2 removal has been investigated. The sorbent is obtained by conventional incipient wetness impregnation of abandoned biomaterials (straw or dried leaves) with an aqueous solution of Na2CO3. A material with the composition 80 wt % Na2CO3/straw shows a desulfurization activity which is both higher and faster than that of the reference sample Na2CO3/gamma-Al2O3. The breakthrough and stoichiometric SO2 adsorption efficiencies for 80 wt % Na2CO3/straw reach 48.9% and 80.6%, respectively, at a temperature of 80 degrees C. The adsorption efficiencies are almost constant in the temperature range 70 to 300 degrees C. According to IR and XPS analysis the main products observed on the spent sorbent are sulfite below 150 degrees C and sulfate at 300 degrees C. The Na2CO3 in 80 wt % Na2CO3/straw can potentially be recycled by the oxidation of the straw with concomitant reduction of the sulfite species to elemental sulfur, making the proposed process CO2 neutral.
Optimization of steam pretreatment of SO2-impregnated corn stover for fuel ethanol production.	In this study, corn stover with a dry matter content of 20% was impregnated with SO2 and then steam pretreated for various times at various temperatures. The pretreatment was evaluated by enzymatic hydrolysis of the solid material and analysis of the sugar content in the liquid. The maximum overall yield of glucose, 89% of the theoretical based on the glucan in the raw material, was achieved when the corn stover was pretreated at 200 degrees C for 10 min. The maximum overall yield of xylose, 78%, was obtained with pretreatment at 190 degrees C for 5 min.
Steam pretreatment of Salix with and without SO2 impregnation for production of bioethanol.	In the wood-to-ethanol process, pretreatment of the material is necessary prior to enzymatic hydrolysis to obtain high overall yields of sugar and ethanol. Steam pretreatment of fast-growing Salix either with or without SO2 impregnation has been investigated by varying different parameters. Overall glucose yields of above 90% and overall xylose yields higher than 80% were obtained both with and without impregnation. However, the most favorable pretreatment conditions for the separate yields of glucose and xylose differed to a lower degree using SO2-impregnated wood chips, resulting in higher total sugar yield than that obtained with non-impregnated wood chips.
Effect of CO on NO oxidation over platinum based catalysts for hybrid fast SCR process.	The oxidation characteristics of NO over Pt/TiO2 (anatase, rutile) catalysts have been determined in a fixed bed reactor as a function of O2, CO and SO2 concentrations in the presence of 8% water. The conversion of NO to NO2 increases with increasing O2 concentration up to 12% and it levels off. This saturation effect is more pronounced over rutile-Pt/TiO2 (r-Pt/TiO2) than that of anatase-Pt/TiO2 (a-Pt/TiO2). The presence of CO increases NO oxidation significantly and this enhanced effect is more pronounced on a-Pt/TiO2 than that on r-Pt/TiO2 with increasing CO concentration at lower temperatures. The same effect is also observed on the catalysts with different Pt and tungsten oxide (WO3) loadings. With increasing Pt and WO3 loadings on TiO2 support (Pt-WO3/TiO2), formation of NO2 is high even at lower temperatures. The presence of SO2 significantly suppresses the oxidation of NO over both r-Pt/TiO2 and a-Pt/TiO2 catalysts but it is less pronounced due to low stability of sulfate on a-Pt/TiO2.
Simultaneous removal of SO2 and trace SeO2 from flue gas: effect of product layer on mass transfer.	Sulfur dioxide (SO2) and trace elements are all pollutants derived from coal combustion. This study relates to the simultaneous removal of sulfur and trace selenium dioxide (SeO2) by calcium oxide (CaO) adsorption in the medium temperature range, especially the mass transfer effect of sulfate product layer on trace elements. Through experiments on CaO adsorbing different concentrations of SO2 gases, conclusions can be drawn that although the product layer introduces extra mass transfer resistance into the sorbent-gas reaction process, the extent of CaO adsorption ability loss due to this factor decreases with decreasing SO2 concentration. When the gas concentration is at trace level, the loss of CaO adsorption ability can be neglected. Subsequent experiments on CaO adsorbing trace SeO2 gas suggest that the sulfate product layer, whether it is thick or thin, has no obvious effect on the CaO ability to adsorb trace SeO2 gas.
Preparation of adsorbent made from sewage sludge and its spectrum properties]	Biochemical sludges of sewage and petrochemistry and surplus sludge were taken as raw materials to prepare adsorbents for flue gas desulfurization by pyrolysis. To compare with active carbon, the abilities of adsorbents made from different sludges were studied by SEM, X-ray diffraction diagram, TG and DTA, pore characteristics and elements analysis, and the adsorption mechanisms of systems of SO2 -O2-N2 and SO2-O2-H2O(g)-N2 were studied by FTIR. Results indicated that the desulfurization performance of adsorbent made from surplus sludge was better, subsequent was petrochemical sludge, and the adsorbent made from biochemical sludge of sewage was worse. The desulfurization efficiency of adsorbent made from surplus sludge was slightly lower than active carbon. In the system of SO2-O2-N2, physical adsorption was primary, but in the condition of water, chemical adsorption was primary, where catalysis and oxidation of SO2 took place in sludge-derived adsorbent. In adsorption process, the adsorption depends on micropore structure.
Measurement of SO2 solubility in ionic liquids.	Measurements of the solubility of sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) in the ionic liquids 1-n-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([hmim][Tf(2)N]) and 1-n-hexyl-3-methylpyridinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([hmpy][Tf(2)N]) at temperatures from 25 to 60 degrees C and pressures up to 4 bar indicate that large amounts (up to 85 mol %) of SO(2) dissolve in ionic liquids by simple physical absorption.
Effects of sulfur dioxide, hydrogen peroxide and sulfuric acid on the de novo synthesis of PCDD/F and PCB under model laboratory conditions.	In a laboratory model system consisting of fly ash from municipal waste incinerator, CuCl2 x 2H2O, NaCl and activated carbon in N2 + 10% O2 atmosphere, the de novo synthetic reactions of formation of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were studied under laboratory conditions in the presence of sulfur dioxide, hydrogen peroxide, and sulfuric acid. It has been found that the formation of PCDD is suppressed by sulfur dioxide more efficiently than the formation of PCDF. A similar effect has also been observed in the presence of hydrogen peroxide. The formation of PCDF is strongly suppressed in the presence of sulfuric acid. On the basis of the experimental results and thermodynamic calculations, the following mechanisms are proposed and discussed: oxidative destruction of PCDD and PCDF oxygen rings, conversion of cupric chloride and possibly also cupric oxide into the non-reactive sulfate, and the Deacon oxychlorination processes catalyzed by cupric chloride.
Influence of Cu(II) on the interaction between sulfite and horseradish peroxidase in vitro.	This paper discussed the quantitative influence of Cu(II) on the interaction between horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and sulfite (SO3(2-)), which is a derivate of sulfite dioxide in human bodies, by using fluorescence spectrum and ultraviolet (UV) absorption spectrometry in vitro. The results show that under the conditions of physiological pH and room-temperature, Cu(II) can bind strongly with both the protein part and the ferroporphyrin part in HRP at a low concentration (10(-4) mol L(-1)), and the combination constants are 2.047 x 10(3) and 7.66 x 10(2) L mol(-1), respectively. Under the same conditions, SO3(2-) at low concentrations (<0.15 mol L(-1)) has little quenching for the fluorescence of HRP at 330 nm, and the combination constant is 0.108 L mol(-1). While the fluorescence intensity at 440 nm enhance gradually with the increased concentration of SO3(2-) (<0.1 mol L(-1)), and the combination constant is 8.219 L mol(-1). These indicate that SO3(2-) at low concentration has little reaction with the enzyme protein part in HRP but obvious reaction with the ferroporphyrin part in HRP. After SO3(2-) at low concentrations is added into the HRP-Cu(II) binary system, the reaction constants between SO3(2-) and the enzyme protein part in HRP increase rapidly. Compared with the absence of Cu(II), the combination constant of SO3(2-) with the enzyme protein part in HRP increases nearly 70 times with a certain Cu(II) concentration (5.0 x 10(-4) mol L(-1)) in the system. However, the presence of Cu(II) in the system has little effect on the reaction constants between SO3(2-) and the ferroporphyrin part in HRP.
Thermodynamic analysis and kinetic modelling of dioxin formation and emissions from power boilers firing salt-laden hog fuel.	Both organic chlorine (e.g. PVC) and inorganic chlorides (e.g. NaCl) can be significant chlorine sources for dioxin and furan (PCDD/F) formation in combustion processes. This paper presents a thermodynamic analysis of high temperature salt chemistry. Its influence on PCDD/F formation in power boilers burning salt-laden wood waste is examined through the relationships between Cl2, HCl, NaCl(g) and NaCl(c). These analyses show that while HCl is a product of combustion of PVC-laden municipal solid waste, NaCl can be converted to HCl in hog fuel boilers by reactions with SO2 or alumino-silicate materials. Cl2 is a strong chlorinating agent for PCDD/F formation. HCl can be oxidized to Cl2 by O2, and Cl2 can be reduced back to HCl by SO2. The presence of sulphur at low concentrations thus enhances PCDD/F formation by increasing HCl concentrations. At high concentrations, sulphur inhibits de novo formation of PCDD/Fs through Cl2 reduction by excess SO2. The effect of NH3, CO and NOx on PCDD/F formation is also discussed. A semi-empirical kinetic model is proposed. This model considers both precursor and de novo formation mechanisms. A simplified version is used as a stack emission model. The kinetic model indicates that stack dioxin emissions will increase linearly with decreasing electrostatic precipitator (ESP) efficiency and exponentially with increasing ESP temperature.
A new approach to studying aqueous reactions using diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectrometry: application to the uptake and oxidation of SO2 on OH-processed model sea salt aerosol.	Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectrometry (DRIFTS) is a powerful technique for analyzing solid powders and for following their reactions in real time. We demonstrate that it can also be applied to studying the uptake and reactions of gases in liquid films. Within the DRIFTS cell, a 10%(w/w) mixture of MgCl(2) x 6H(2)O in NaCl was equilibrated with air at 50% RH, which is above the deliquescence point of the magnesium salt but below that of NaCl. This mixture of NaCl coated with an aqueous magnesium chloride solution was then reacted with gas phase OH to generate hydroxide ions via a previously identified interface reaction. This treatment, hereafter referred to as OH-processing, was sufficient to convert some of the magnesium chloride to Mg(OH)(2) and Mg(2)(OH)(3)Cl x 4H(2)O, making the aqueous film basic and providing a reservoir of alkalinity. Subsequent addition of SO(2) to the basic processed mixture resulted in its uptake and conversion to sulfite which was measured by FTIR. The sulfite was simultaneously oxidized to sulfate by HOCl/OCl(-) that was formed in the initial OH-processing of the salt. Further uptake and oxidation of SO(2) in the aqueous film took place when the salt was subsequently exposed to O(3). These studies demonstrate that DRIFTS can be used to study the chemistry in liquid films in real time, and are consistent with the hypothesis that the reaction of gaseous OH with chloride ions generates alkalinity that enhances the uptake and oxidation of SO(2) under these laboratory conditions.
Synthesis of substituted 1,3-diene synthetic equivalents by a Ru-catalyzed diyne hydrative cyclization.	Catalyzed by [CpRu(CH3CN)3]PF6, the hydrative cyclization of dipropargylic sulfone substrates provides an effective way to synthesize highly functionalized substituted 3-sulfolenes. The amount of water is crucial for the reactivity of this cycloisomerization reaction. The scope and limitations of the Ru-catalyzed cycloisomerization are discussed. A marked ketone-directing effect was observed for the first time in ruthenium-catalyzed cyclizations. A plausible mechanism for the ketone-directed cycloisomerization is also rationalized. The utility of this method was demonstrated by both sulfur dioxide extrusion of the 3-sulfolenes to afford 1,3-dienes and subsequent inter- or intramolecular Diels-Alder reactions.
Evidence for the role of ions in aerosol nucleation.	Aerosol nucleation has been studied experimentally in purified, atmospheric air, containing trace amounts of water vapor, ozone, and sulfur dioxide. The results are compared with model calculations. It is found that an increase in ionization by a factor of 10 increases the production rate of stable clusters by a factor of approximately 3, probably due to ion-induced nucleation.
Pore structure and desulfurization characteristics of organic calcium]	Calcination of oganic calcium was carried out in fixed bed, pore structure of tested sample was analyzed with auto-adsorption analyzer, and desulfurization experiment was studied by intelligent sulfur determination analyzer. Specific surface area of calcium magnesium acetate (CMA) was 46.6 m2/g after calcination at 900 degrees C, almost four times of that of limestone. Specific surface area of calcium acetate (CA) were mainly made up of pore of diameter less than 5 nm, and those of CMA was chiefly contributed by middle pore of diameter about 5 nm. Agglomeration of CA occurred in pore of diameter less than 5 nm, while CMA was sintered in whole range of pore size distribution. Agglomeration of organic calcium were slighter. Desulfurization efficiency of organic calcium ranged from 62.28% to 75.55% at 1000 degrees C as calcium/sulfur ratio being one, which was one time more than that of limestone. Perfect pore structure of organic calcium contributes to higher desulfurization efficiency.
Inhibition of de novo synthesis of PCDD/Fs by SO2 in a model system.	The effect of sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) on de novo synthesis of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, dibenzofurans (PCDD/F) and biphenyls (PCB) was investigated in model systems containing carbon, activated by cupric chloride (CuCl(2)). Five types of carbons (activated carbon, three types of carbon blacks, and graphite) were used to test the universal character of our results. The influence of SO(2) on speciation and behavior of copper compounds, catalytic oxidation of carbons, and formation of organic chlorine (extractable organic chlorine and non-extractable organic chlorine) was also studied to investigate the inhibition mechanism of SO(2) on de novo synthesis. It was found that SO(2) can sulfate CuCl(2), but does not react with CuO and CuCl(2).CuO in a 10% O(2)/N(2) atmosphere at 300 degrees C. The suppression by SO(2) of organic chlorine (C-Cl) formation also confirmed these findings. It was also found that catalytic oxidation of carbons was strongly suppressed by SO(2). A dramatic decrease in PCDD/Fs formation was observed for all five carbons, while adding SO(2); at the same time the average chlorination level also decreased. However, the inhibiting effect on PCB was less apparent compared with that on PCDD/F. On the basis of the experimental results, the conversion of both cupric and cuprous chloride into the non-reactive sulfate was proposed as inhibition mechanism.
Steam pretreatment and fermentation of the straw material "Paja Brava" using simultaneous saccharification and co-fermentation.	Pretreatment, enzymatic hydrolysis and simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of the South American straw material Paja Brava were investigated. Suitable process conditions for an SO₂-catalyzed steam pretreatment of the material were determined and assessed by enzymatic digestibility of obtained fiber slurries for 72 h at a water insoluble solids (WIS) content of 2%. The best pretreatment conditions obtained (200 °C, 5 min holding time and 2.5% SO₂) gave an overall glucose yield following enzymatic hydrolysis of more than 90%, and a xylose yield of about 70%. Simultaneous saccharification and co-fermentation of glucose and xylose (SSCF) of the pretreated material using the xylose-fermenting strain Saccharomyces cerevisiae TMB3400 was examined at WIS contents between 5% and 10%. In agreement with previous studies on other materials, the overall ethanol yield and also the xylose conversion decreased somewhat with increasing WIS content in the SSCF. In batch SSCF, the xylose conversion obtained was almost 100% at 5% WIS content, but decreased to 69% at 10% WIS. The highest ethanol concentration obtained for a WIS content of 10% was about 40 g/L, corresponding to a yield of 0.41 g/g in a fed-batch SSCF. The Paja Brava material has previously been found difficult to hydrolyze in a dilute-acid process. However, the SSCF results obtained here show that similar sugar yields and fermentation performance can be expected from Paja Brava as from materials such as wheat straw, corn stover or sugarcane bagasse.
Total asymmetric syntheses of β-hydroxy-δ-lactones via Umpolung with sulfur dioxide.	Cyclic stereotriads and stereotetrads of the β-hydroxy-δ-lactone type, e.g. prelactones B and E, common in polyketides and polypropionates, are prepared via SO(2)-induced oxyallylations of enoxysilanes with (1E,3Z)-1-(1-phenylethoxy)penta-1,3-dien-3-yl carboxylates. Using (Z)- or (E)-enoxysilanes both 4,5-cis- or 4,5-trans-δ-lactones are obtained. Depending on the reduction method applied to the obtained aldol intermediates 5,6-trans or 5,6-cis-derivatives are formed. The δ-lactones can be prepared in both their enantiomeric forms depending on the (1R)- or (1S)-configuration of the starting 1-(1-phenylethoxy)penta-1,3-dienes.
Synchrotron-based XANES speciation of chromium in the oxy-fuel fly ash collected from lab-scale drop-tube furnace.	Speciation of chromium (Cr) in the fly ash collected from oxy-firing of Victorian brown coal has been reported for the first time to address the potential formation of toxic Cr(VI) and the variation of the quantities of Cr(III)-bearing species with flue gas composition. Synchrotron-based X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) was employed for Cr speciation. Apart from a pure O(2)/CO(2) mixture (27/73, v/v) versus air, the O(2)/CO(2) mixtures doped with SO(2), HCl, and steam individually or together to simulate real flue gas have also been tested. Under all of the conditions tested here, the fractions of Cr(VI) in the fly ashes are insignificant, constituting no more than 5% of the total Cr. The test of Cr-doped brown coal in pyrolysis further confirmed that the Cr(VI) formation preferentially occurred through a local oxidation of Cr(III) at the oxygen-containing functions sites within coal matrix, rather than through an oxidation by external bulk O(2). This reaction is also highly temperature-dependent and slower than the interaction between Cr(III) and other metals such as iron oxide. Increasing temperature to 1000 °C inhibited the oxidation of Cr(IIII) to Cr(VI). Shifting the combustion gas from air to O(2)/CO(2) exerted little effect on the Cr(VI) formation. Instead, the formation of iron chromite (FeCr(2)O(4)) was facilitated in O(2)/CO(2), probably due to a strong reducing microenvironment formed by the CO(2) gasification reaction within the char matrix. The accumulation of HCl in flue gas favored the vaporization of chromium as gaseous chloride/oxychloride, as expected. The coexistence of SO(2) inhibited this phenomenon by promoting the formation of sulfate. The presence of steam was even beneficial for the inhibition of water-soluble Cr sulfate through stabilizing the majority of Cr into alumino-silicate which is in the slagging phase.
SO2 gas adsorption by modified kaolin clays: influence of previous heating and time acid treatments.	Modified kaolin clays were used as adsorbents for SO(2) gas adsorptions. The clays were heated up to 900 °C previous to acid treatments with 0.5 N sulfuric acid solutions at boiling temperature during different times up to 1440 min. Equilibrium adsorption at 25 °C and 0.1 MPa was carried out by using a volumetric apparatus. The samples were characterized by chemical analysis, X-ray diffraction and infrared analysis. The heating of the clays followed by acid treatment improved the adsorption capacity of the kaolin clays. The presence of amorphous silica and hydroxyl in the final products improved SO(2) adsorption capacity. Better properties for SO(2) adsorption were found in kaolin rich in not well ordered kaolinite clay mineral.
Photocatalytically active polyelectrolyte/nanoparticle films for the elimination of a model odorous gas.	Virtually transparent films of Aeroxide TiO(2) P25 were fabricated via layer-by-layer assembly with sodium poly(styrene sulfonate). Nanoscale films are formed on model surfaces for characterization or inside of cylindrical reactors for investigating the catalytic properties. Films are fairly homogeneous and smooth over large areas and show different optical interference colors depending on film thickness. The application-relevant photocatalytic performance of such films toward on-flow degradation of hydrogen sulfide under UV-A irradiation was investigated. Scanning electron microscopy reveals a nanoporous structure allowing for the permeation of gas. Consequently, the catalytic efficiency of the films increases with increasing film thickness retaining a considerable activity of the corresponding nanoparticle powder. Scheme 1 depicts in a general way the functionalized reactor and the principle of the measurement.
Effects of gaseous NH(3) and SO(2) on the concentration profiles of PCDD/F in flyash under post-combustion zone conditions.	The influence of gaseous ammonia and sulphur dioxide on the formation of 2378-substituted PCDD/F on a reference flyash from a municipal waste incinerator has been investigated using a laboratory scale fixed-bed reactor. The reference flyash samples (BCR-490) was reacted under a simulated flue gas stream at temperatures of 225 and 375°C for 96h. The experiments were carried out in two series: first with simulated flue gas alone, and then with injection of NH(3) or SO(2) gas into the flue gas just before the reactor inlet. It was found that the injection of gaseous ammonia into the flue gas could decrease the concentration of both PCDD and PCDF by 34-75% from the solid phase and by 21-40% from the gas phase. Converting the results to I-TEQ values, it could reduce the total I-TEQ values of PCDD and PCDF in the sum of the flyash and exhaust flue gas by 42-75% and 24-57% respectively. The application of SO(2) led to 99% and 93% reductions in the PCDD and PCDF average congener concentrations, respectively in the solid phase. In the gas phase, the total reductions were 89% and 76% for PCDD and PCDF, respectively. Moreover, addition of SO(2) reduced the total I-TEQ value of PCDD and PCDF in the flyash and exhaust flue gas together by 60-86% and 72-82% respectively. Sulphur dioxide was more effective than ammonia in suppressing PCDD/F formation in flyash under the conditions investigated.
Evaluation of the impact of H2O, O2, and SO2 on postcombustion CO2 capture in metal-organic frameworks.	Molecular modeling methods are used to estimate the influence of impurity species: water, O(2), and SO(2) in flue gas mixtures present in postcombustion CO(2) capture using a metal organic framework, HKUST-1, as a model sorbent material. Coordinated and uncoordinated water effects on CO(2) capture are analyzed. Increase of CO(2) adsorption is observed for both cases, which can be attributed to the enhanced binding energy between CO(2) and HKUST-1 due to the introduction of a small amount of water. Density functional theory calculations indicate that the binding energy between CO(2) and HKUST-1 with coordinated water is ~1 kcal/mol higher than that without coordinated water. It is found that the improvement of CO(2)/N(2) selectivity induced by coordinated water may mainly be attributed to the increased CO(2) adsorption on the hydrated HKUST-1. On the other hand, the enhanced selectivity induced by uncoordinated water in the flue gas mixture can be explained on the basis of the competition of adsorption sites between water and CO(2) (N(2)). At low pressures, a significant CO(2)/N(2) selectivity increase is due to the increase of CO(2) adsorption and decrease of N(2) adsorption as a consequence of competition of adsorption sites between water and N(2). However, with more water molecules adsorbed at higher pressures, the competition between water and CO(2) leads to the decrease of CO(2) adsorption capacity. Therefore, high pressure operation should be avoided in HKUST-1 sorbents for CO(2) capture. In addition, the effects of O(2) and SO(2) on CO(2) capture in HKUST-1 are investigated: The CO(2)/N(2) selectivity does not change much even with relatively high concentrations of O(2) in the flue gas (up to 8%). A slightly lower CO(2)/N(2) selectivity of a CO(2)/N(2)/H(2)O/SO(2) mixture is observed compared with that in a CO(2)/N(2)/H(2)O mixture, especially at high pressures, due to the strong SO(2) binding with HKUST-1.
Novel Co-Mg-Al-Ti-O catalyst derived from hydrotalcite-like compound for NO storage/decomposition.	Catalysts of Co1.5Mg1.5/Al0.9Ti0.1O and Co1.5Mg1.5/A1O were successfully prepared by calcinations of corresponding hydrotalcite-like compounds at 800 degrees C for 4 hr. The derived oxides were of spinel phase and a small quantity of Ti substitution did not change the crystal purity. Their catalytic performance for the NO storage/decomposition was investigated. Ti incorporation enhanced the NO decomposition activity while has an opposite effect on the storage capacity of catalyst. In situ FT-IR spectra of the catalysts showed that the final adsorption species on the catalysts was coordinated nitrates/nitrites. In addition, NO storage/decomposition mechanism has been discussed on the basis of these observations.
Role of flue gas components in mercury oxidation over TiO2 supported MnOx-CeO2 mixed-oxide at low temperature.	MnO(x)-CeO(2) mixed-oxide supported on TiO(2) (Mn-Ce/Ti) was synthesized by an ultrasound-assisted impregnation method and employed to oxidize elemental mercury (Hg(0)) at 200°C in simulated coal combustion flue gas. Over 90% of Hg(0) oxidation was achieved on the Mn-Ce/Ti catalyst at 200°C under simulated flue gas representing those from burning low-rank coals with a high gas hourly space velocity of 60,000 h(-1). Gas-phase O(2) regenerated the lattice oxygen and replenished the chemisorbed oxygen, which facilitated Hg(0) oxidation. HCl was the most effective flue gas component responsible for Hg(0) oxidation. 10 ppm HCl plus 4% O(2) resulted in 100% Hg(0) oxidation under the experimental conditions. SO(2) competed with Hg(0) for active sites, thus deactivating the catalyst's capability in oxidizing Hg(0). NO covered the active sites and consumed surface oxygen active for Hg(0) oxidation, hence limiting Hg(0) oxidation. Water vapor showed prohibitive effect on Hg(0) oxidation due to its competition with HCl and Hg(0) for active adsorption sites. This study provides information about the promotional or inhibitory effects of individual flue gas components on Hg(0) oxidation over a highly effective Mn-Ce/Ti catalyst. Such knowledge is of fundamental importance for industrial applications of the Mn-Ce/Ti catalyst in coal-fired power plants.
SO2 photoexcitation mechanism links mass-independent sulfur isotopic fractionation in cryospheric sulfate to climate impacting volcanism.	Natural climate variation, such as that caused by volcanoes, is the basis for identifying anthropogenic climate change. However, knowledge of the history of volcanic activity is inadequate, particularly concerning the explosivity of specific events. Some material is deposited in ice cores, but the concentration of glacial sulfate does not distinguish between tropospheric and stratospheric eruptions. Stable sulfur isotope abundances contain additional information, and recent studies show a correlation between volcanic plumes that reach the stratosphere and mass-independent anomalies in sulfur isotopes in glacial sulfate. We describe a mechanism, photoexcitation of SO2, that links the two, yielding a useful metric of the explosivity of historic volcanic events. A plume model of S(IV) to S(VI) conversion was constructed including photochemistry, entrainment of background air, and sulfate deposition. Isotopologue-specific photoexcitation rates were calculated based on the UV absorption cross-sections of (32)SO2, (33)SO2, (34)SO2, and (36)SO2 from 250 to 320 nm. The model shows that UV photoexcitation is enhanced with altitude, whereas mass-dependent oxidation, such as SO2 + OH, is suppressed by in situ plume chemistry, allowing the production and preservation of a mass-independent sulfur isotope anomaly in the sulfate product. The model accounts for the amplitude, phases, and time development of Δ(33)S/δ(34)S and Δ(36)S/Δ(33)S found in glacial samples. We are able to identify the process controlling mass-independent sulfur isotope anomalies in the modern atmosphere. This mechanism is the basis of identifying the magnitude of historic volcanic events. 
SO2 -catalyzed steam explosion: the effects of different severity on digestibility, accessibility, and crystallinity of lignocellulosic biomass.	Lignocellulosic biomass is the most promising feedstock for biofuels production. To enhance the efficiency of enzymatic hydrolysis, lignocellulosics needs to be pretreated to lower their recalcitrance. SO(2) -catalyzed steam explosion is an efficient and relatively cost-efficient pretreatment method for softwood. This work investigates the effects of steam explosion severity on the digestibility, accessibility, and crystallinity of Loblolly pine. Higher severity was found to increase the accessibility of the feedstock while also promoting nonselective degradation of carbohydrates. The adsorption behavior of Celluclast® enzymes on steam-exploded Loblolly pine (SELP) can be described by a Langmuir isotherm. Cellulose crystallinity was found to first increase and then decrease with increasing pretreatment severity. A linear relationship between initial hydrolysis rates and crystallinity index (CrI) of pretreated Loblolly pine was found; moreover, a strong correlation between X-ray diffraction intensities and initial rates was confirmed. The findings demonstrate the significance of CrI in enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated lignocellulosic biomass.
Vibronic origin of sulfur mass-independent isotope effect in photoexcitation of SO2 and the implications to the early earth's atmosphere.	Signatures of mass-independent isotope fractionation (MIF) are found in the oxygen ((16)O,(17)O,(18)O) and sulfur ((32)S, (33)S, (34)S, (36)S) isotope systems and serve as important tracers of past and present atmospheric processes. These unique isotope signatures signify the breakdown of the traditional theory of isotope fractionation, but the physical chemistry of these isotope effects remains poorly understood. We report the production of large sulfur isotope MIF, with Δ(33)S up to 78‰ and Δ(36)S up to 110‰, from the broadband excitation of SO2 in the 250-350-nm absorption region. Acetylene is used to selectively trap the triplet-state SO2 ( (3)B1), which results from intersystem crossing from the excited singlet ( (1)A2/ (1)B1) states. The observed MIF signature differs considerably from that predicted by isotopologue-specific absorption cross-sections of SO2 and is insensitive to the wavelength region of excitation (above or below 300 nm), suggesting that the MIF originates not from the initial excitation of SO2 to the singlet states but from an isotope selective spin-orbit interaction between the singlet ( (1)A2/ (1)B1) and triplet ( (3)B1) manifolds. Calculations based on high-level potential energy surfaces of the multiple excited states show a considerable lifetime anomaly for (33)SO2 and (36)SO2 for the low vibrational levels of the (1)A2 state. These results demonstrate that the isotope selectivity of accidental near-resonance interactions between states is of critical importance in understanding the origin of MIF in photochemical systems. 
Influence of SO2 in incineration flue gas on the sequestration of CO2 by municipal solid waste incinerator fly ash.	The influence of CO2 content and presence of SO2 on the sequestration of CO2 by municipal solid waste incinerator (MSWI) fly ash was studied by investigating the carbonation reaction of MSWI fly ash with different combinations of simulated flue gas. The reaction between fly ash and 100% CO2 was relatively fast; the uptake of CO2 reached 87 g CO2/kg ash, and the sequestered CO2 could be entirely released at high temperatures. When CO2 content was reduced to 12%, the reaction rate decreased; the uptake fell to 41 g CO2/kg ash, and 70.7% of the sequestered CO2 could be released. With 12% CO2 in the presence of SO2, the reaction rate significantly decreased; the uptake was just 17 g CO2/kg ash, and only 52.9% of the sequestered CO2 could be released. SO2 in the simulated gas restricted the ability of fly ash to sequester CO2 because it blocked the pores of the ash.
A comparative study of Mn/CeO2, Mn/ZrO2 and Mn/Ce-ZrO2 for low temperature selective catalytic reduction of NO with NH3 in the presence of SO2 and H2O.	Ce-ZrO2 is a widely used three-way catalyst support. Because of the large surface area and excellent redox quality, Ce-ZrO2 may have potential application in selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems. In the present work, Ce-ZrO2 was introduced into a low-temperature SCR system and CeO2 and ZrO2 supports were also introduced to make a contrastive study. Mn/CeO2, Mn/ZrO2 and Mn/Ce-ZrO2 were prepared by impregnating these supports with Mn(NO3)2 solution, and have been characterized by N2-BET, XRD, TPR, TPD, XPS, FT-IR and TG. The activity and resistance to SO2 and H2O of the catalysts were investigated. Mn/Ce-ZrO2 and Mn/CeO2 were proved to have better low-temperature activities than Mn/ZrO2, and yielded 98.6% and 96.8% NO conversion at 180 degrees C, respectively. This is mainly because Mn/Ce-ZrO2 and Mn/CeO2 had higher dispersion of manganese oxides, better redox properties and more weakly adsorbed oxygen species than Mn/ZrO2. In addition, Mn/Ce-ZrO2 showed a good resistance to SO2 and H2O and presented 87.1% NO conversion, even under SO2 and H2O treatment for 6 hours, and the activity of Mn/Ce-ZrO2 was almost restored to its original level after cutting off the injection of SO2 and H2O. This was due to the weak water absorption and weak sulfation process on the surface of the catalyst.
Reversible chemisorption of sulfur dioxide in a spin crossover porous coordination polymer.	The chemisorption of sulfur dioxide (SO2) on the Hofmann-like spin crossover porous coordination polymer (SCO-PCP) {Fe(pz)[Pt(CN)4]} has been investigated at room temperature. Thermal analysis and adsorption-desorption isotherms showed that ca. 1 mol of SO2 per mol of {Fe(pz)[Pt(CN)4]} was retained in the pores. Nevertheless, the SO2 was loosely attached to the walls of the host network and completely released in 24 h at 298 K. Single crystals of {Fe(pz)[Pt(CN)4]}·nSO2 (n ≈ 0.25) were grown in water solutions saturated with SO2, and its crystal structure was analyzed at 120 K. The SO2 molecule is coordinated to the Pt(II) ion through the sulfur atom ion, Pt-S = 2.585(4) Å. This coordination slightly stabilizes the low-spin state of the Fe(II) ions shifting the critical temperatures of the spin transition by 8-12 K. DFT calculations have been performed to rationalize these observations. 
Simultaneous sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide removal by calcium hydroxide and calcium silicate solids.	At conditions typical of a bag filter exposed to a coal-fired flue gas that has been adiabatically cooled with water, calcium hydroxide and calcium silicate solids were exposed to a dilute, humidified gas stream of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) in a packed-bed reactor. A prior study found that NO2 reacted readily with surface water of alkaline and non-alkaline solids to produce nitrate, nitrite, and nitric oxide (NO). With SO2 present in the gas stream, NO2 also reacted with S(IV), a product of SO2 removal, on the exterior of an alkaline solid. The oxidation of S(IV) to S(VI) by oxygen reduced the availability of S(IV) and lowered removal of NO2. Subsequent acidification of the sorbent by the removal of NO2 and SO2 facilitated the production of NO. However, the conversion of nitrous acid to sulfur-nitrogen compounds reduced NO production and enhanced SO2 removal. A reactor model based on empirical and semi-empirical rate expressions predicted rates of SO2 removal, NO2 removal, and NO production by calcium silicate solids. Rate expressions from the reactor model were inserted into a second program, which predicted the removal of SO2 and NOx by a continuous process, such as the collection of alkaline solids in a baghouse. The continuous process model, depending upon inlet conditions, predicted 30-40% removal for NOx and 50-90% removal for SO2. These results are relevant to dry scrubbing technology for combined SO2 and NOx removal that first oxidizes NO to NO2 by the addition of methanol into the flue duct.
