Primary culture of flounder renal tubule cells: transepithelial transport.	Renal proximal tubule cells from the winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) were maintained in a functionally differentiated state for up to 16 days in primary culture on floating collagen gels. The cells were confluent after 7-8 days in culture, contracted the collagen gels, and exhibited ciliary activity. Electron microscopy indicated that the cultures were composed of continuous sheets of columnar epithelial cells that had established structural polarity. When mounted in Ussing chambers, the cultures exhibited a small mucosa-negative potential difference (0.6 +/- 0.10 mV) and a low transepithelial resistance (23 +/- 2.3 omega X cm2). Short-circuit current averaged 24 microA/cm2. The cultured epithelium was four times more permeable to Na than to Cl and actively secreted sulfate and p-aminohippuric acid and reabsorbed hexoses. Glucose reabsorption was rheogenic and occurred via a high-affinity (Km = 0.16 mM), low-capacity (Vmax = 5 microA/cm2), phlorizin-sensitive transport system. We concluded that the cultured cells express many of the differentiated properties of the intact flounder proximal tubule and thus provide a suitable model system for studying renal transport processes.
Directional Ca2+ effect on stimulation of secretion of common mucins and unique sulphate-rich components from chicken trachea in vitro.	High submucosal Ca2+ (3.6-18 mM) significantly increased the secretion of a common high molecular weight fibrillar mucin (approx. Mr is greater than 2.10(6)) and also elicited the secretion of an additional low molecular weight component (approx. Mr 325,000). Low luminal Ca2+ (0.018 mM) also significantly increased the secretion of a common high molecular weight gelatinous mucin (approx. Mr is greater than 2.10(6)) and elicited the secretion of an additional low molecular weight component (approx. Mr 46,200). The additional low molecular weight components were more heavily sulphated (6.7 and 4.2%) than common high molecular weight mucins (2.1 and 1%). The low molecular weight components and high molecular weight mucins were secreted as aggregates which could be dissociated by EGTA. The low molecular weight components and high molecular weight mucins were different in the number of their glycoprotein constituents and in the ion-exchange chromatographic profiles and the carbohydrate and ester sulphate residue content of their acidic glycoproteins.
