Immunohistologic localization of estrone sulfatase in uterine endometrium and adenomyosis.	To clarify histologic localization of estrone sulfatase in normal uterine endometrium and adenomyotic tissue and to confirm that estrone sulfatase is one of the enzymes that supplies estrogen to adenomyotic tissue.
Studies on the biological activity of triiodothyronine sulfate.	Hepatic microsomes and isolated hepatocytes in short term culture desulfate T3 sulfate (T3SO4). We, therefore, wished to determine whether T3SO4 could mimic the action of thyroid hormone in vitro. T3SO4 had no thyromimetic effect on the activity of Ca(2+)-ATPase in human erythrocyte membranes at doses up to 10,000 times the maximally effective dose of T3 (10(-10) mol/L). In GH4C1 pituitary cells, T3SO4 failed to displace [125I]T3 from nuclear receptors in intact cells or soluble preparations. Thus, T3SO4 was not directly thyromimetic in either an isolated human membrane system or a pituitary cell system in which nuclear receptor occupancy correlates with GH synthesis. Thyroid hormones inhibit [3H]glycosaminoglycan synthesis by cultured human dermal fibroblasts, and T3SO4 displayed about 0.5% the activity of T3 at 72 h. Human fibroblasts contained roughly the same level of microsomal p-nitrophenyl sulfatase activity as that previously observed in hepatic microsomes. Propylthiouracil (50 mumol/L) did not affect the action of T3SO4, suggesting that deiodination was not important for this activity of T3SO4. Thus, it appears T3SO4 has no intrinsic biological activity, but, under certain circumstances, may be reactivated by desulfation.
Study on the steroid sulfatase (STS) activity in normal individuals and patients with abnormal sexual differentiation]	The STS (steroid sulfatase) gene which has been assigned to the short arm of human X chromosome (band p22) is thought to have escaped from Lyon's inactivation. For that reason, the STS enzyme activities differ between male and female according to the number of X chromosomes in cells. In this report, the STS enzyme activities were studied in different human tissues such as placentas, lymphocytes, and cultured fibroblasts of normal individuals and sex anomaly patients. Tritium labelled dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHA-S) was used as the reaction substrate. The placental STS activities between normal male and female subjects showed a significant difference in spite of wide variances that were ascertained not to be the effects of methodological alterations involving enzyme purification, substrate concentration, and activity calculation (units per mg of protein or DNA). Further, lymphocytes and fibroblasts which had low levels of enzyme concentration compared with placentas, the STS enzyme activities were also significantly different between both sexes. These results confirmed that the STS gene in cells of tissue tested here seemed to be inactive at the gene level and followed the gene dosage effect to some extent. The enzyme activity was also studied in 17 patients with sex anomalies using lymphocytes and cultured fibroblasts. The cells of 45,X Turner Syndrome and of Klinefelter syndrome with 47,XXY or other karyotypes, showed slightly lower levels of enzyme activity when compared with control values of normal males or females. The enzyme activity in intersexual disturbances, especially XX male and XX true hermaphrodites, showed intermediate levels between normal male and female values. This result may give support to the concept that at least one X chromosome in these diseases is genetically abnormal due to X-Y interchanges, something that has been partly proved recently by analysis of H-Y antigen and Y-specific DNA probes. The present study on the STS enzyme activity revealed the presence of a gene dosage effect of STS gene between males and females not precise but rather rough in quantity, and it pointed out problem, some of which were related to genetic and environmental factors modifying the STS gene expression in normal individuals as well as sex anomaly patients.
The development of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes in human bone marrow.	Neutrophilic leukocytes (PMN) and their precursors from normal human marrow and blood were examined by histochemical staining and by electron microscopy and cytochemistry in order to determine the origin and nature of their cytoplasmic granules. Human neutrophils contain two basic types of granules, azurophils and specifics, which differ in morphology, contents, and time of origin. Azurophils are large and may be spherical or ellipsoid, the latter with a crystalline inclusion. They are produced in the first secretory stage (promyelocyte), contain peroxidase and various lysosomal enzymes, and thus correspond to modified primary lysosomes. Specifics are smaller, may be spherical or elongated, and are formed during a later secretory stage (myelocyte). They lack lysosomal enzymes and contain alkaline phosphatase and basic protein; their contents remain largely undetermined. Specifics outnumber azurophils in the mature PMN because of reduction in numbers of azurophils per cell by cell division in the myelocyte stage. The findings indicate that the situation is basically the same as described previously in the rabbit, insofar as the origin, enzymic activity, and persistence in the mature cell of the two types (azurophil and specific) of granules are concerned. The main difference between PMN of the two species is in the morphology (size, shape, and density) of the granules, especially the azurophils.
Differentiation of monocytes. Origin, nature, and fate of their azurophil granules.	The origin, content, and fate of azurophil granules of blood monocytes were investigated in several species (rabbit, guinea pig, human) by electron microscopy and cytochemistry. The life cycle of monocytes consists of maturation in bone marrow, transit in blood, and migration into tissues where they function as macrophages. Cells were examined from all three phases. It was found that: azurophil granules originate in the Golgi complex of the developing monocyte of bone marrow and blood, and ultimately fuse with phagosomes during phagocytosis upon arrival of monocytes in the tissues. They contain lysosomal enzymes in all species studied and peroxidase in the guinea pig and human. These enzymes are produced by the same pathway as other secretory products (i.e., they are segregated in the rough ER and packaged into granules in the Golgi complex). The findings demonstrate that the azurophil granules of monocytes are primary lysosomes or storage granules comparable to the azurophils of polymorphonuclear leukocytes and the specific granules of eosinophils. Macrophages from peritoneal exudates (72-96 hr after endotoxin injection) contain large quantities of lysosomal enzymes throughout the secretory apparatus (rough ER and Golgi complex), in digestive vacuoles, and in numerous coated vesicles; however, they lack forming or mature azurophil granules. Hence it appears that the monocyte produces two types of primary lysosomes during different phases of its life cycle-azurophil granules made by developing monocytes in bone marrow or blood, and coated vesicles made by macrophages in tissues and body cavities.
Lysosomal enzyme cytochemistry in acute leukaemia.	A cytochemical study of the lysosomal enzyme beta-glucuronidase in 60 cases of acute leukaemia has shown a qualitative difference in the cytoplasmic distribution of the enzyme between blast cells of the lymphoid and myeloid cell series. This difference provides a useful additional method for cytochemical classification of cell type and is superior in this respect to the other lysosomal enzymes studied (aryl sulphatase and acid phosphatase). The beta-glucuronidase reaction is recommended in those cases of acute leukaemia in which the periodic acid-Schiff reaction is negative or equivocal.
Rapid laboratory diagnostic of X-linked ichthyosis.	Steroid sulfatase and aryl sulfatase C activities were assayed simultaneously in peripheral blood leucocytes of 4 patients with X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) and 4 patients with autosomal-dominant ichthyosis; 11 healthy subjects served as controls. The deficiency of steroid sulfatase as well as of aryl sulfatase C found in leucocytes of patients with XLI was confirmed by the histochemical demonstration of aryl sulfatase C deficiency in skin sections. Although results are obtained earlier with the histochemical method than with the biochemical assay in leucocytes, several disadvantages brought us to the conclusion that the biochemical assay of microsomal sulfatase activity in leucocytes offers a fast and safe method for the identification of patients with XLI.
