Characteristics and time course of severe glimepiride- versus glibenclamide-induced hypoglycaemia.	To compare the clinical characteristics and time course of severe hypoglycaemia (SH) on glimepiride and the reference drug glibenclamide.
Glimepiride combined with morning insulin glargine, bedtime neutral protamine hagedorn insulin, or bedtime insulin glargine in patients with type 2 diabetes. A randomized, controlled trial.	Patients with type 2 diabetes are often treated with oral antidiabetic agents plus a basal insulin.
Combination therapy with pioglitazone plus metformin or sulfonylurea in patients with Type 2 diabetes: influence of prior antidiabetic drug regimen.	To evaluate two trials of combination therapy, pioglitazone together with metformin or sulfonylurea, for Type 2 diabetes mellitus and to examine how pretrial antidiabetic therapies may have influenced the results.
The morphological and biochemical effects of glibornuride on rat liver in experimental diabetes.	Glibornuride is a sulphonylurea derivative used as an oral hypoglycaemic drug in diabetics. The aim of this study was to examine the histological, ultrastructural and biochemical effects of glibornuride in streptozotocin (STZ)-treated rats. The animals were rendered diabetic by intraperitoneal injection of 65 mg/kg STZ. Fourteen days later, glibornuride was given at 5 mg/kg by gavage, daily for 28 days, to one STZ-diabetic and one control group. In the STZ-diabetic group, remarkable degenerative changes were observed. On the other hand, in the STZ-diabetic group given glibornuride, the degenerative changes decreased. In the STZ-diabetic group, blood glucose levels, serum aspartate transaminase activity, and total lipid levels increased, whereas the blood glutathione levels decreased. In contrast, in the STZ-diabetic group given glibornuride blood glucose levels, serum aspartate transaminase activity and total lipid levels decreased and blood glutathione levels increased. Significant changes in total protein levels in the serum were not observed in any group. As a conclusion, we can say that glibornuride has a protective effect against the hepatotoxicity produced by STZ-diabetes.
Preparation and evaluation in vivo and in vitro of glimepiride gel-matrix controlled-release patch]	To study the pharmaceutical characterization, the pharmacokinetics and relative bioavailability of glimepiride gel-matrix controlled-release patch in rats.
Achieving glycemic control in type 2 diabetes: a practical guide for clinicians on oral hypoglycemics.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus has reached epidemic proportions in the United States. Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are particularly high in this patient population. Improved glucose control, especially early in the course of diabetes, can slow or prevent complications, preserve beta-cell function, and improve long-term outcomes. Within the last decade, new treatments and glycemic goals have created an opportunity to better manage this prevalent, chronic disease. Defects of insulin resistance and deficiency leading to type 2 diabetes can now be directly targeted with available therapies. In addition to diet and exercise, oral treatment options have been broadened, with both insulin secretagogues and insulin sensitizers. These advances in treatment options make glycemic control an obtainable target, and therefore should improve overall morbidity and mortality for patients. This paper will review currently available oral therapies, with a focus on the unique attributes of the insulin sensitizers for patients with type 2 diabetes.
Combined metformin-sulfonylurea treatment of patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes in fair to poor glycemic control.	The effect of metformin treatment was studied in 13 patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), whose fasting plasma glucose concentration was greater than 10 mmol/L with maximal sulfonylurea doses. Patients were studied before and 3 months after receiving 2.5 g/day metformin. The fasting plasma glucose concentration (12.4 +/- 0.8 vs. 8.8 +/- 0.7 mmol/L), mean hourly postprandial plasma glucose concentration from 0800-1600 h (14.0 +/- 1 vs. 9.4 +/- 0.9 mmol/L), and glycosylated hemoglobin level (12.3 +/- 0.6% vs. 9.0 +/- 0.6%) were all significantly (P less than 0.005-0.001) lower after the administration of metformin. The improvement in glycemic control was associated with a 24% increase (P less than 0.05) in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake during glucose clamp studies and a 16% decrease in basal hepatic glucose production (P less than 0.05). Mean hourly concentrations of plasma insulin (411 +/- 73 vs. 364 +/- 73 pmol/L) and FFA concentrations (440 +/- 31 vs. 390 +/- 40 mumol/L) were also lower after 3 months of metformin treatment. However, neither insulin binding nor insulin internalization by isolated monocytes changed in response to metformin. Finally, plasma triglyceride, very low density lipoprotein triglyceride, and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol were significantly decreased (P less than 0.01-0.001), and high density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly increased (P less than 0.001) after metformin treatment. Thus, the addition of metformin to sulfonylurea-treated patients with NIDDM not in good glycemic control significantly lowered fasting and postprandial plasma glucose concentrations, presumably due to the combination of enhanced glucose uptake and decreased hepatic glucose production. Since the dyslipidemia present in these patients also improved, the results suggest that metformin may be of significant clinical utility in patients with NIDDM not well controlled with sulfonylurea compounds.
Comparison of pioglitazone with other antidiabetic drugs for associated incidence of liver failure: no evidence of increased risk of liver failure with pioglitazone.	The aim of this study was to assess the incidence of liver failure in association with antidiabetic treatment using pioglitazone vs. other oral antidiabetic medications.
Efficacy of glimepiride in Japanese type 2 diabetic subjects.	We investigated the efficacy of glimepiride, a third-generation sulfonylurea (SU), in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients in whom glycemic control had been inadequate with a conventional SU, gliclazide or glibenclamide. A total of 172 Japanese type 2 diabetic patients (HbA1C > or = 7.0%), maintained on a conventional SU, were randomly assigned to the 3rd SU group (SU treatments switched to glimepiride) or the 2nd SU group (treatments not changed). The conventional SU was switched to the indicated doses of glimepiride (gliclazide 40 mg = glimepiride 1 mg, glibenclamide 2.5 mg = glimepiride 2 mg). After 6 months, glycemic control (HbA1C and fasting plasma glucose) had not changed significantly in either the 2nd or the 3rd SU group. The homeostasis assessment model of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in the 3rd SU group was decreased by more than 10% (p = 0.015), whereas no change was observed in the 2nd SU group. The triglyceride level was decreased by approximately 10% in the 3rd SU group, not a significant change (p = 0.080). Patients who had been treated with only SU, or treated with SU for a short time (less than 5 years), and who were also obese (BMI > or = 25) or had a high HOMA-IR (HOMA-IR > or = 3), showed significantly reduced insulin resistance. According to logistic regression analysis, high BMI ( > or = 25) was the only variable predicting that glimepiride would more effectively improve HbA1C than conventional SU treatment. In conclusion, switching conventional SUs to glimepiride reduced insulin resistance without improving glycemic control. A notable finding of this study is that glimepiride was more beneficial in obese than in non-obese Japanese type 2 diabetic patients.
The risk of coronary heart disease in type 2 diabetic patients exposed to thiazolidinediones compared to metformin and sulfonylurea therapy.	To evaluate whether the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) differs among adult diabetic patients treated with thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and similar patients treated with combined oral metformin and sulfonylurea (M + S) therapy.
Race, ethnicity, and use of thiazolidinediones among US adults with diabetes.	Significant race and ethnic disparities exist in diabetes-related health care. Using a nationally representative database, we sought to determine if use of thiazolidinediones (TZDs) differs by race and ethnicity. As a secondary objective, we sought to determine if race and ethnicity is associated with use of older oral antidiabetic agents, such as sulfonylureas and metformin.
Emergency management of oral hypoglycemic drug toxicity.	There are several classes of oral diabetes medications available in the United States, including sulfonylureas, meglitinides, biguanides, glitazones, and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors. These different classes have various mechanisms of action, giving each class a unique potential for toxicity that necessitates a distinct approach to evaluation, treatment, and disposition of each class of drug. The practicing emergency physician must have an understanding of these differences to safely care for patients exposed to these medications.
A randomized, controlled trial of the effects of rosiglitazone on adipokines, and inflammatory and fibrinolytic markers in diabetic patients: study design and protocol.	Although rosiglitazone may offer vascular benefits beyond lowering glucose, recently, concern has been raised that this drug may paradoxically increase cardiovascular risk.
Design and evaluation of chitosan films for transdermal delivery of glimepiride.	Glimepiride is a third generation oral antidiabetic sulphonylurea drug frequently prescribed to patients of type 2 diabetes. However, its oral therapy is encountered with bioavailability problems due to its poor solubility leading to irreproducible clinical response, in addition to adverse effects like dizziness and gastric disturbances. As a potential for convenient, safe and effective antidiabetic therapy, the rationale of this study was to develop a transdermal delivery system for glimepiride. Chitosan polymer was utilized in developing transdermal films for glimepiride. Chitosan has film forming ability, bioadhesive and absorption enhancing properties. Aiming at optimizing the drug delivery and circumventing the skin barrier function, inclusion complexation of glimepiride with beta-cyclodextrin (beta-CyD) as well as the use of several conventional penetration enhancers were monitored for augmenting the drug flux. The physical and mechanical properties of the prepared films were investigated using tensile testing, IR spectroscopy and X-ray diffractometry. Release studies revealed adequate release rates from chitosan films. Permeation studies through full thickness rat abdominal skin were conducted. High flux values were obtained from films comprising a combination of the drug with limonene and ethanol as well as from films containing glimepiride-beta-CyD complex. In vivo studies on diabetic rats for selected formulae revealed a marked therapeutic efficacy sustained for about 48 hours. The above-mentioned results shed light on feasibility of utilizing chitosan as an effective, safe transdermal delivery system for glimepiride characterized by increased patient compliance and better control of the disease.
Adverse effect of pioglitazone in military personnel and their families: a preliminary report.	Thiazolidinediones (rosiglitazone and pioglitazone) whether administered alone or in combination with metformin, sulfonylurea, or insulin, are often accompanied by an increase in weight and/or plasma volume. Several studies have shown the adverse effect of weight gain and edema with rosiglitazone. But there was less data with pioglitazone, especially in military personnel and their families.
Triple oral fixed-dose diabetes polypill versus insulin plus metformin efficacy demonstration study in the treatment of advanced type 2 diabetes (TrIED study-II).	To compare the efficacy of a fixed-dose triple oral diabetes polypill containing 1 or 2 mg glimepiride, 500 mg sustained-release metformin, and 15 mg pioglitazone (GMP) administered once daily with human insulin 70/30 mix and 500 mg sustained-release metformin administered twice daily (IM) in insulin-naÏve subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled [haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) over 8.0%] on a combination of glimepiride and metformin.
An analysis of early insulin glargine added to metformin with or without sulfonylurea: impact on glycaemic control and hypoglycaemia.	To evaluate the benefits of initiating insulin at an earlier versus later treatment stage, and regimens with/without sulfonylurea (SU).
Determinants of an optimal response to pioglitazone in terms of HDL-cholesterol.	The effect of pioglitazone on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) has been attracting attention. However, there are limited data on the characteristics of patients who are likely to respond to pioglitazone in terms of the improvement in HDL-C levels (lipid responders). In the present study, the characteristics of lipid responders were investigated.
Exenatide twice daily versus glimepiride for prevention of glycaemic deterioration in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin failure (EUREXA): an open-label, randomised controlled trial.	Glycaemic control deteriorates progressively over time in patients with type 2 diabetes. Options for treatment escalation remain controversial after failure of first-line treatment with metformin. We compared add-on exenatide with glimepiride for durability of glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by metformin alone.
Eudragit-based nanosuspension of poorly water-soluble drug: formulation and in vitro-in vivo evaluation.	The present study was performed to investigate potential of Eudragit RLPO-based nanosuspension of glimepiride (Biopharmaceutical Classification System class II drug), for the improvement of its solubility and overall therapeutic efficacy, suitable for peroral administration. Nanoprecipitation method being simple and less sophisticated was optimized for the preparation of nanosuspension. Physicochemical characteristics of nanosuspension in terms of size, zeta potential, polydispersity index, entrapment efficiency (% EE) and in vitro drug release were found within their acceptable ranges. The size of the nanoparticles was most strongly affected by agitation time while % EE was more influenced by the drug/polymer ratio. Differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray diffraction studies provided evidence that enhancement in solubility of drug resulted due to change in crystallinity of drug within the formulation. Stability study revealed that nanosuspension was more stable at refrigerated condition with no significant changes in particle size distribution, % EE, and release characteristics for 3 months. In vivo studies were performed on nicotinamide-streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat models for pharmacokinetic and antihyperglycaemic activity. Nanosuspension increased maximum plasma concentration, area under the curve, and mean residence time values significantly as compared to aqueous suspension. Oral glucose tolerance test and antihyperglycaemic studies demonstrated plasma glucose levels were efficiently controlled in case of nanosuspension than glimepiride suspension. Briefly, sustained and prolonged activity of nanosuspensions could reduce dose frequency, decrease drug side effects, and improve patient compliance. Therefore, glimepiride nanosuspensions can be expected to gain considerable attention in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus due to its improved therapeutic activity.
Assessment of baseline characteristics, glycemic control and oral antidiabetic treatment in Asian patients with diabetes: The Registry for Assessing OAD Usage in Diabetes Management (REASON) Asia study.	To assess baseline characteristics, glycemic control, and treatment with oral antidiabetic drugs (OAD) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients.
Individualised treatment targets for elderly patients with type 2 diabetes using vildagliptin add-on or lone therapy (INTERVAL): a 24 week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	Guidelines suggest setting individualised targets for glycaemic control in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes, despite no evidence. We aimed to assess the feasibility of setting and achieving individualised targets over 24 weeks along with conventional HbA1c reduction using vildagliptin versus placebo.
Apolipoprotein-defined and NMR lipoprotein subclasses in the veterans affairs diabetes trial.	The VADT was a randomized clinical trial designed to assess the effect of intensive vs. standard glucose management on cardiovascular events in Type 2 diabetes. At the end of the study, intensive management failed to improve outcomes. We performed plasma lipoprotein subclass analyses to yield new information on the effects of study randomization on cardiovascular risk.
Effects of pioglitazone on visceral fat metabolic activity in impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Excess visceral fat is associated with chronic systemic inflammation and cardiovascular complications. Pioglitazone has been reported to variably influence visceral fat volume; however, its effect on metabolic activity of the visceral fat remains uncharacterized.
A randomized controlled trial comparing the GLP-1 receptor agonist liraglutide to a sulphonylurea as add on to metformin in patients with established type 2 diabetes during Ramadan: the Treat 4 Ramadan Trial.	To compare a sulphonylurea with the glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist liraglutide in combination with metformin in patients on mono/dual oral therapy with established type 2 diabetes fasting during Ramadan.
How to prevent and treat pharmacological hypoglycemias.	A 58 year-old woman with type 2 diabetes diagnosed 3 years before came to our clinic. Her treatment was metformin 850 mg every 12 hours and glimepiride 4 mg every 24 hours. After the initiation of glimepiride 9 months before her weight has increased 5 kg, and she suffers frequent hypoglycemias which have affected her while driving. Her BMI is 35.5 kg/m². She has a normal eye fund exam. She has hypertension treated with telmisartán and hidroclorotiazide with adequate control, and also hypercholesterolemia treated with atorvastatine 40 mg every 24 hours. Her blood test shows an HbA1c of 7.0%, normal values of microalbuminuria, total cholesterol 149 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 52 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 98 mg/dl and triglycerides 123 mg/dl. Her blood pressure is 129/81 mmHg, there was no orthostatic hypotension, and her peripheral neurological examination shows normal results. In summary, our case is a young woman with type 2 diabetes and obesity, without chronic complications and which has frequent hypoglycaemia. How must this woman be evaluated and treated?
A comparison of metformin versus guar in combination with sulphonylureas in the treatment of non insulin dependent diabetes.	Twelve non-obese non insulin dependent diabetics whose mean +/- SE fasting blood glucose was 12.9 +/- 0.9 mmol/l despite maximal doses of sulphonylureas, received 8 weeks of guar (5 g tid before meals) and 8 weeks of metformin (0.5 g tid) following a six week washout period, in a cross-over design. Guar significantly lowered fasting cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations but did not alter glucose concentrations. Conversely, metformin significantly reduced fasting and post-prandial glucose concentrations but had no influence on plasma lipids.
Studies on the question of a possible autoregulation of insulin secretion (author's transl)]	In eight normal weight healthy volunteers it was proved by C-peptide assay whether high concentrations of insulin in serum would suppress the secretion of insulin in an autoregulative manner. Insulin combined with glucose, therefore was given intravenously as a single bolus injection as well as an infusion over a period of two hours. Moreover it was proved whether high levels of insulin would suppress the reactivity of the B-cell to sulphonylurea administration. It was demonstrated that the secretion of the B-cell is regulated only by the concentration of the blood sugar, but not by the level of serum insulin. Likewise the stimulation of the B-cell by sulphonyl-urea administration is not suppressed by high concentrations of insulin.
Effect of ergot alkaloids on sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion in dogs.	The insulinogenic response to a standard i.v. dose of a sulfonylurea can be markedly augmented in normal, conscious dogs if they are given 30 min earlier a single i.v. dose of dihydroergotamine (DHE). Since the parent substance ergotamine posssed no such amplifying properties, further experiments were conducted to clarify the essential structural requirements that have to be fulfilled for an ergot alkaloid to act as an amplifier of sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion. Amine alkaloids ergonovine, dihydroergonovone and dihydromethylergonovine had no amplifying potency, but the hydrogenated amino acid alkaloids dihydroergocornine, dihydroergocristine and dihydroergokryptine (Hydergine) were almost as potent amplifiers as was DHE. The data indicate that (a) DHE, Hydergine and by inference all hydrogenated amino acid alkaloids are potent amplifiers of sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion; (b) saturation of the double bond at C9 and C10 of the lysergic acid moiety and the pressence of an amino acid side chain are essential structual requirements for an ergot alkaloid to function as an amplifier of the action of sulfonylureas; and (c) it appears that these compounds are acting chiefly by mechanisms other than alpha-adrenergic and serotonergic receptor blockade, perhaps as regulatory molecules inducing positive cooperative changes in integral proteins of the plasma membrane of beta cells.
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of 14C-glipentide, a new antidiabetic, after oral and intravenous administration.	The pharmacokinetic study of 14C-glipentide in male Wistar rats shows, at 0.2 mg/kg doses, that blood radioactivity drops quickly. The metabolization is effected in the liver and leads to four labelled metabolites which are eliminated mainly by the bile. The physiological disposition of unchanged glipentide can be described by a two-compartment open model. Autoradiography and quantitative studies have shown that the liver presents the highest concentration of radioactivity, that diminishes to a very low value 96 h after the administration. In the other tissues the radioactivity is never large, even following repeated administrations. The plasma protein binding does not change with the time, and it can be presumed that binding forces of glipentide and its metabolites to plasma proteins are similar. Glipentide is very well absorbed. The urinary and fecal elimination of radioactivity is similar after oral and i.v. administration.
Impaired effect of sulfonylurea following increased dosage.	Ten Type 2 diabetics were examined during long-term treatment, at two dosage levels, with chlorpropamide once daily and glipizide t.i.d. Drug concentrations were measured by gas chromatography and high-pressure liquid chromatography, respectively, plasma insulin (IRI) by radio-immunoassay, and blood glucose enzymatically. Both drugs gave continuous sulfonylurea exposure, even at the lower dosage, and the mean plasma concentrations were almost doubled after the increase in dose. Neither the IRI nor the glucose response to meals showed any therapeutic improvement following the increase in chlorpropamide dosage. The lower dosage of glipizide produced better glucose utilization than chlorpropamide. On the other hand, the increased dose of glipizide led to impairment instead of further improvement. As this was associated with enhanced rather than reduced IRI levels, the impairment might have been due to increased peripheral insulin resistance. Thus, glipizide offers a therapeutic advantage over chlorpropamide, but its effectiveness may be restricted not only by limitations set by the disease, but also by counter-regulatory mechanisms that develop during continuous exposure to sulfonylureas at high levels.
Glimepiride-induced prevention of diabetes and autoimmune events in the BB rat: revised.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether Glimepiride, an oral sulfonylurea drug, prevents the onset of diabetes in diabetic prone BB rats. S750181, a sulfonylurea drug that has minimal in vivo glucose metabolic effects, was also tested. In addition, the shortest period of sulfonylurea treatment required for prevention was determined. Eighty rats were studied for all treatment periods with 40 receiving a daily oral gavage dosage of glimepiride and 40 receiving a daily oral gavage dosage of vehicle solution. Diabetes onset was monitored by glycosuria and blood glucose levels. In study I, with a treatment period of 35-142 days of age, Glimepiride-treated rats showed a 32% incidence of diabetes, whereas control rats had a diabetes incidence of 55% (p < 0.04). In study II, with a treatment period of 60-140 days of age, Glimepiride-treated rats showed a 29% incidence of diabetes compared to 54% in controls (p < 0.03). Further, comparing the time of diabetes onset between the Glimepiride and control groups showed that Glimepiride delays diabetes onset (p < 0.02). In study III, with a treatment period of 60-100 days of age, Glimepiride-treated rats showed a 17% overall diabetes incidence at 170 days, whereas the controls were 43% (p < 0.01). In study IV, with a treatment period of 60-140 days of age, S750181-treated rats showed a 38% diabetes incidence and the control group showed a 43% diabetes incidence. There was no significant delaying or prevention effect observed in the S750181 group. To determine if Glimepiride affected autoimmune events, the severity of islet inflammation was examined. In study I, islet histology from total and nondiabetic animals indicated that Glimepiride-treated rats had a lower severity of islet inflammation than that of the control rats (p = 0.023). These studies show that a) Glimepiride has diabetes preventive effects, b) shorter treatment periods of only 40 days can be effective and c) Glimepiride decreases the severity of islet inflammation.
Ketoacidosis-onset noninsulin dependent diabetes in Japanese subjects.	In 5 patients (2 women and 3 men, aged 16-36 years), diabetic ketoacidosis developed without precipitating illness. Pancreatic islet cell antibody was negative, and the duration of insulin dependency was shorter than 4 weeks. Hemoglobin A1c was < or = 6.3% for the mean period of 2.8 years thereafter, with diet therapy alone in 4 and with 5 mg glyburide in 1. Four were overweight before the development of diabetes, and 3 of them positive for family history of adult-onset, non-ketotic diabetes. Frequency of human leukocyte antigen B61 was increased significantly in the patients. In a patient not previously overweight, family history of diabetes was negative, and human leukocyte antigen haplotypes common in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus were accumulated. Serum immunoreactive insulin was within normal range or supranormal with normal glucose tolerance after recovery. The patients closely resemble black Americans with ketoacidosis-onset non-insulin dependent diabetes.
Pitfalls in treatment with oral antidiabetic agents]	In the treatment of type 2 diabetes (NIDDM) we possess three groups of oral hypoglycaemic drugs: sulfonyl urea derivatives, biguanides (metformin) and alpha-glucosidase (acarbose) inhibitors. Oral treatment of diabetes has a favourable impact on the patients metabolic deviations but it involves also certain dangers and pitfalls. The side-effects of oral antidiabetics can be reduced to a minimum by respecting consequentially contraindications of administration of different preparations, knowledge of their mechanism of action and individual selection of a suitable antidiabetic for every patient.
Interaction between converting enzyme inhibitors and hypoglycemic sulfonamides or insulin]	POSSIBLE INTERACTIONS: Converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) can intensify the glucose lowering effect of insulin or sulfonureas. This interaction has been observed in a few clinical cases and studied systematically in regional pharmacovigilance centers. LOW RISK RATE: This interaction occurs in certain patients with well-controlled diabetes who are given a CEI or when CEI dosage is increased. The risk of hypoglycemia in diabetics treated with CEI is very low and can be considered as negligible compared with the benefit of this class of well-tolerated renal-protective antihypertension agents. DRUG DEPENDENT: A larger number of cases of hypoglycemia have been reported with captopril and enalapril, probably because these two CEI have been marketed for a longer period. Captopril may have a stronger hypoglycemia effect than enalapril. It has been demonstrated with hyperinsulin euglycemic clamp that captopril improves sensitivity to insulin in healthy volunteers with normal blood pressure; with enalapril however, the increase in insulin sensitivity is less pronounced and non-significant. AN INDIRECT MECHANISM: Captopril, and to a lesser extent enalapril, indirectly increases insulin sensitivity by increasing circulating kinine which leads to vasodilatation in the muscles and increased glucose uptake in muscle tissue.
