Effect of inhibition of the Na+/H+ exchanger with cariporide on left ventricular function in acute coronary syndromes: results from the echocardiographic substudy of the GUARDIAN trial.	To evaluate the effects of inhibition of the Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE) on regional left ventricular dysfunction in patients with a non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (ACS) BACKGROUND: NHE inhibition protects against myocardial necrosis and stunning in ischemia-reperfusion models.
Experimental studies on myocardial protection with intermittent cross-clamp fibrillation: additive effect of the sodium-hydrogen exchanger inhibitor, cariporide.	We previously showed that intermittent cross clamping with fibrillation affords myocardial protection equivalent to cardioplegic arrest. In this study, we examined whether cariporide (Aventis Pharma, Frankfurt, Germany), a specific sodium-hydrogen exchanger inhibitor, enhanced the protective effect of intermittent cross-clamp fibrillation (ICCF).
Etoricoxib in acute pain associated with dental surgery: a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active comparator-controlled dose-ranging study.	Patients experiencing acute pain after surgery, including dental surgery, often require analgesia. Ideally, the chosen analgesic should have a rapid onset and sustained effect. Etoricoxib is a new cyclooxygenase-2-selective inhibitor that has demonstrated analgesic efficacy in the treatment of acute pain with a rapid onset and long-lasting pain relief.
Effects of acute and chronic treatment with the sodium hydrogen exchanger 1 (NHE-1) inhibitor cariporide on myocardial infarct mass in rabbits with hypercholesterolaemia.	We investigated the cardioprotective effect of acute and chronic sodium hydrogen exchanger 1 (NHE-1) inhibition with cariporide under pathological conditions in rabbits fed an atherogenic diet (0.25% cholesterol, 3% coconut oil), an experimental model of atherosclerosis. New Zealand White rabbits were fed over 4 weeks with normal diet or with atherogenic diet and randomized in 3 subgroups (n=7 in each group); placebo, acute cariporide (0.3 mg/kg, 10 min. before occlusion of left anterior descending coronary artery and chronic cariporide (4 weeks 0.1% in chow). In the final infarction experiments the animals were subjected to 30 min. of myocardial ischaemia by occlusion of a branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 2 hr of reperfusion. Infarct mass was evaluated by triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride staining and the infarct size expressed as a percentage of area at risk. Besides the assessment of aortic endothelium-dependent function aortic and cardiac vessels were inspected for atherosclerotic lesions. In cholesterol-fed rabbits, the infarct size was significantly increased when compared with normal diet animals (63+/-3% versus 41+/-3%). Acute cariporide treatment reduced the infarct size in normal diet rabbits to 14%+/-3% (66% decrease, P<0.05) as well as in atherogenic diet rabbits to 22+/-3% (65% decrease, P<0.05). Chronic treatment with cariporide also reduced the infarct size significantly: normal diet 19+/-2% (53% decrease, P<0.05), atherogenic diet 32+/-3% (49% decrease, P<0.05). Total cholesterol serum levels in rabbits with atherogenic diet were significantly higher (15.3+/-2.7 mmol/l) than those on a standard diet (0.65+/-0.08 mmol/l). Chronic cariporide treatment significantly attenuated the increase of serum cholesterol (7.9+/-1.9 mmol/l) and improved the lipoprotein pattern. Although the aortas and heart vessels of hypercholesterolaemic animals were without any histological evidence of atherosclerosis they developed endothelial dysfunction (reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation by ACh), which was prevented by chronic cariporide treatment. Acute and chronic treatment with the NHE-1 inhibitor cariporide significantly reduced infarct mass. This effect was associated with improved endothelial function.
A liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry method for the quantification of both etoricoxib and valdecoxib in human plasma.	A practicable and selective liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry assay for the determination of two cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, etoricoxib and valdecoxib, in human plasma is presented. The analytical technique is based on reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled to atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation (APCI) mass spectrometry (Finnigan Mat LCQ ion trap). Mass analysis was performed in the positive ion mode. The ion trap was operated in the tandem MS mode (MS2) and the transitions of etoricoxib (m/z 359.2 --> 280.3) and valdecoxib (m/z 315.1 --> 235.1) were followed by selected reaction monitoring. Retention times of etoricoxib and valdecoxib were 1.05 and 1.08 min, respectively. The method was validated over a linear range 10-2500 and 5-1000 microg/L using the other substrate as internal standard. After validation, the method was used to study the pharmacokinetic pro fi le of etoricoxib or valdecoxib in a healthy volunteer after administration of a single oral dose (valdecoxib, 20 mg; etoricoxib, 90 mg). The presented method was suf fi cient to cover more than 90% of the area under the plasma concentration time curve.
Effect of rofecoxib on pain caused by osteoid osteoma.	In a prospective study, nine patients with osteoid osteoma were treated with a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (rofecoxib). Patient pain perception with no treatment, with conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment, and with rofecoxib therapy was compared using a visual analog scale. Tumor response was also monitored by radiographs, computed tomography, and bone scintigraphy. In all cases, pain diminished on administration of rofecoxiib in comparison to conventional NSAIDs (P < .05). Four patients underwent surgery whereas in the remaining five patients, bone scintigraphy showed reduced uptake after 6 months. In four patients who were retested at 12 months,scintigraphy values were normal. These four patients are currently asymptomatic and are not receiving any treatment, whereas the fifth patient is still receiving therapy.
Treatment of lung cancer using clinically relevant oral doses of the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor rofecoxib: potential value as adjuvant therapy after surgery.	To investigate the uses and limitations of cyclooxygenase- (COX) 2 inhibition using clinically relevant doses of oral rofecoxib in the treatment of murine models of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Superiority of the gastroduodenal safety profile of licofelone over rofecoxib, a COX-2 selective inhibitor, in dogs.	This study assessed the gastroduodenal safety profile of licofelone, a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug with dual inhibitory activity against 5-lipoxygenase and cyclo-oxygenase (COX), by using endoscopic evaluations and by comparing licofelone to rofecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor. Twenty-one dogs underwent blinded gastroduodenoscopies, during which the mucosa of the gastroduodenal tract was assessed and scored. Blood analyses were monitored on days 0 (baseline), 14, 28, 42, and 56. Examinations to detect fecal occult blood were performed daily. Dogs were randomly assigned to three groups that received either a placebo, licofelone at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg twice daily, or rofecoxib at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg daily, respectively. Significant differences between the groups in gastric (P = 0.003), duodenal (P = 0.009), and gastroduodenal (P = 0.002) endoscopic lesion scores were observed at day 56. Rofecoxib-treated dogs had more lesions in all areas when compared with placebo-treated dogs, more duodenal lesions when compared with licofelone-treated dogs and more lesions than they had at baseline. In contrast to licofelone, rofecoxib was found to induce significant gastric and gastroduodenal lesions in dogs that lacked pre-existing lesions at baseline. Blood analyses and fecal examinations did not reveal abnormalities in any of the experimental groups. Treatment with licofelone was well tolerated and was shown to be safer than rofecoxib in terms of upper gastrointestinal damage. In this way, this study demonstrates the gastroduodenal safety profile of licofelone for chronic treatment.
Increased constriction of the ductus arteriosus by dexamethasone, indomethacin, and rofecoxib in fetal rats.	To find a better treatment for patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in premature infants, the present study investigated the synergism of clinical doses of dexamethasone, indomethacin, and rofecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, on the fetal ductus arteriosus (DA) in rats.
Effects of nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibition with low-dose ibuprofen on tumor growth, angiogenesis, metastasis, and survival in a mouse model of colorectal cancer.	To determine whether the nonselective and relatively inexpensive nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen would be effective in inhibiting colorectal cancer and might improve mortality in a mouse model.
Preoperative analgesia management with rofecoxib in thoracotomy patients.	Pain management after thoracotomy is significant because pain reduces the postoperative respiratory performance. In this study, the analgesic efficacy and safety of rofecoxib in thoracotomy patients were evaluated.
Selective COX-2 inhibition with different doses of rofecoxib does not impair endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease.	In this study, we investigated the effects of both 25 and 50 mg daily doses of rofecoxib on the endothelial functions of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). For this purpose, 34 patients with documented severe CAD and who were under aspirin treatment (300 mg/day) were randomized to receive 4 weeks of treatment with a placebo (n = 10, group I), rofecoxib 25 mg/day (n = 12, group II), and rofecoxib 50 mg/day (n = 12, group III). Brachial artery vasodilator responses were measured in order to evaluate endothelial function. The percentage of change in endothelial-dependent vasodilation in groups I, II, and III were similar at the baseline level and showed no significant change after treatment (6.2+/-3.9% vs. 5.9+/-3.1% and 5.8+/-3.3% vs. 5.6+/-3.8% and 6.1+/-4.5% vs. 5.8+/-4.1%, respectively; P > 0.05). Compared with the baseline, endothelium-independent vasodilatation, as assessed by nitroglycerine (NTG), remained unchanged after the treatment period (11.2+/-6.9% vs. 10.3+/-7.1% and 11.2+/-6.3% vs. 9.9+/-5.1% and 9.5+/-4.9% and 8.8+/-4.6%, respectively; P> 0.05). Treatment with both doses also showed no significant effects on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels and resting arterial diameters (P > 0.05). In conclusion, 4 weeks of treatment with standard and high doses of rofecoxib showed no significant effects on either endothelial-dependent or independent vasodilator response or plasma hs-CRP levels in patients with severe CAD taking concomitant aspirin.
Clinical trial design and patient demographics of the Multinational Etoricoxib and Diclofenac Arthritis Long-term (MEDAL) study program: cardiovascular outcomes with etoricoxib versus diclofenac in patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are frequently needed for the treatment of patients with arthritis. However, long-term use of such drugs that are cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective inhibitors has been reported to increase cardiovascular risk as compared with placebo, whereas long-term, randomized controlled trials assessing the risk of traditional NSAIDs versus placebo are lacking. The MEDAL program is designed to provide a precise estimate of the relative cardiovascular event rates with the COX-2 selective inhibitor etoricoxib in comparison to the traditional NSAID diclofenac in patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. The MEDAL program consists of 3 multinational, randomized, double-blind trials in patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis comparing etoricoxib (60 or 90 mg daily) to diclofenac (150 mg daily). All investigator-reported thrombotic cardiovascular events will be adjudicated by an independent panel of experts blinded to treatment assignment. The primary analysis is a noninferiority comparison of etoricoxib versus diclofenac for confirmed thrombotic cardiovascular events, defined as an upper bound of the 95% CI for a hazard ratio of < 1.30. With the planned 635 observed events from approximately 40,000 patient-years of exposure, using an estimated annual event rate of 1.30% in the control arm, the maximum annual event rate for etoricoxib that would meet the noninferiority criteria would be approximately 1.46%, yielding a hazard ratio of 1.12. A total of 34,701 patients have been enrolled in the MEDAL program. Roughly 13,000 and 10,000 patients will, respectively, have had > or = 18 or > or = 24 months of exposure, with maximum exposure of approximately 40 months. The MEDAL program will help to better define the risk-to-benefit ratio of 2 NSAIDs, that differ in their selectivity for COX-2, notably diclofenac and etoricoxib.
Simultaneous determination of sildenafil and N-desmethyl sildenafil in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography method using electrochemical detection with application to a pharmacokinetic study.	A method which employed high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection was developed for the simultaneous determination of sildenafil and its metabolite, N-desmethyl sildenafil, in human plasma has. The method was developed and validated for purposes of its application to a pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers after an oral dose of 50mg/tablet under fasting conditions. High precision and accuracy were demonstrated. A one-step liquid-liquid extraction further provides a simple and practical way to process plasma samples containing sildenafil with good quantitative recovery. Sampling lasted for 24h after dosing; consequently a limit of quantitation (LOQ) of 7.858 ng/mL was achieved for sildenafil whereas a LOQ of 8.675 ng/mL was obtained for N-desmethyl sildenafil. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile, methanol and phosphate buffer (0.05 M) (18.5:34.5:47.0, v/v/v) pH 7.68. The stationary phase was a C(8) (150 mm x 4.6 mm), 5 microm particle size operated at 27 degrees C. All analytes were stable at the pH of the supernatant, and during the analytical time window. At the applied potential of +1.20 V versus Ag/AgCl, no interferences from endogenous plasma compounds were recorded at the retention times of sildenafil, N-desmethyl sildenafil. High resolution was obtained between the analytes and the employed internal standards.
A highly potent inhibitor of cathepsin K (relacatib) reduces biomarkers of bone resorption both in vitro and in an acute model of elevated bone turnover in vivo in monkeys.	Cathepsin K is an osteoclast-derived cysteine protease that has been implicated as playing a major role in bone resorption. A substantial body of evidence indicates that cathepsin K is critical in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and suggests that its pharmacological inhibition should result in inhibition of bone resorption in vivo. Here we report the pharmacological characterization of SB-462795 (relacatib) as a potent and orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of cathepsin K that inhibits bone resorption both in vitro in human tissue and in vivo in cynomolgus monkeys. SB-462795 is a potent inhibitor of human cathepsins K, L, and V (K(i, app)=41, 68, and 53 pM, respectively) that exhibits 39-300-fold selectivity over other cathepsins. SB-462795 inhibited endogenous cathepsin K in situ in human osteoclasts and human osteoclast-mediated bone resorption with IC50 values of approximately 45 nM and approximately 70 nM, respectively. The anti-resorptive potential of SB-462795 was evaluated in normal as well as medically ovariectomized (Ovx) female cynomolgus monkeys. Serum levels of the C- and N-terminal telopeptides of Type I collagen (CTx and NTx, respectively) and urinary levels of NTx were monitored as biomarkers of bone resorption. Administration of SB-462795 to medically ovariectomized or normal monkeys resulted in an acute reduction in both serum and urinary markers of bone resorption within 1.5 h after dosing, and this effect lasted up to 48 h depending on the dose administered. Our data indicate that SB-462795 potently inhibits human cathepsin K in osteoclasts, resulting in a rapid inhibition of bone resorption both in vitro and in vivo in the monkey. These studies also demonstrate the therapeutic potential of relacatib in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis and serves to model the planned clinical trials in human subjects.
Real-life safety and efficacy of vardenafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction-results from 30,010 U.S. patients.	Clinical trials show that vardenafil produces effective and satisfactory first-dose success rates and reliability for erection and intercourse in men with erectile dysfunction (ED).
Combined blockade of the Na+ channel and the Na+/H+ exchanger virtually prevents ischemic Na+ overload in rat hearts.	Blocking either the Na(+) channel or the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) has been shown to reduce Na(+) and Ca(2+) overload during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion, respectively, and to improve post-ischemic contractile recovery. The effect of combined blockade of both Na(+) influx routes on ionic homeostasis is unknown and was tested in this study. [Na(+)](i), pH(i) and energy-related phosphates were measured using simultaneous (23)Na- and (31)P-NMR spectroscopy in isolated rat hearts. Eniporide (3 muM) and/or lidocaine (200 muM) were administered during 5 min prior to 40 min of global ischemia and 40 min of drug free reperfusion to block the NHE and the Na(+) channel, respectively. Lidocaine reduced the rise in [Na(+)](i) during the first 10 min of ischemia, followed by a rise with a rate similar to the one found in untreated hearts. Eniporide reduced the ischemic Na(+) influx during the entire ischemic period. Administration of both drugs resulted in a summation of the effects found in the lidocaine and eniporide groups. Contractile recovery and infarct size were significantly improved in hearts treated with both drugs, although not significantly different from hearts treated with either one of them.
Co-administration of acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid, a specific 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, potentiates the protective effect of COX-2 inhibitors in kainic acid-induced neurotoxicity in mice.	Cyclooxygenase (COX) and lipoxygenase (LOX) are responsible for the metabolism of arachidonic acid into inflammatory metabolites, prostaglandins and leukotrienes, respectively. The upregulation of these enzymes in the central nervous system has been demonstrated to be responsible for the increased neuronal vulnerability to degeneration. Kainic acid, a glutamate receptor agonist and responsible for neuronal excitotoxicity and oxidative damage via different mechanisms, is capable of stimulating mRNA of both COX-2 and 5-LOX in the brain. The present study was designed to study the effects of COX inhibitors (indomethacin, nimesulide, rofecoxib) and a 5-LOX inhibitor (acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid; AKBA) and the combination of these inhibitors (dual inhibition) on kainic acid induced excitotoxicity and oxidative and nitrosative damage in mice. The results from the present study indicated that AKBA, indomethacin, and nimesulide per se did not produce any change in the behavioural parameters after kainic acid administration; however, rofecoxib per seproduced a significant increase in the latency of clonic (seizure-like) movement and a decrease in mortality rate as compared with kainic acid treated animals. In combination studies AKBA, rofecoxib, and nimesulide produced a more pronounced effect than either of these drugs alone. Further, the effect of AKBA combined with rofecoxib was significantly more marked when compared with AKBA combined with nimesulide. Besides this, identical results were found for the effect of these agents and their combination against oxidative damage induced by kainic acid. These findings indicate the potential role of COX-2 inhibitors and also their combination with the 5-LOX inhibitor in kainic acid induced excitotoxicity and oxidative damage by virtue of their antioxidant effect and suggest the need for the development of dual inhibitors for the treatment of neuronal excitotoxicity.
Oxidation of vinyl carbamate and formation of 1,N6-ethenodeoxyadenosine in murine lung.	Vinyl carbamate (VC) is derived from ethyl carbamate, a carcinogen formed in fermentation of food and alcoholic products. We have undertaken studies to test the hypothesis that an epoxide generated from VC oxidation leads to formation of 1,N6-ethenodeoxyadenosine (epsilon dAS). We have developed approaches using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for identification and quantitation of epsilon dAS. Scanning and fragment ion analyses confirmed the identity of epsilon dAS based on the molecular ion [M + H]+ m/z 276 and the specific fragment ion m/z 160. Chemical oxidation of VC in reactions containing 2'-deoxyadenosine produced epsilon dAS with 1H NMR, chromatographic, and mass spectral characteristics identical to those of the authentic epsilon dAS, suggesting DNA alkylation by the VC epoxide. Subsequent studies evaluated formation of epsilon dAS in incubations of murine lung microsomes or recombinant CYP2E1 with VC. The formation of epsilon dAS in incubations of lung microsomes or recombinant CYP2E1 with VC was dependent on protein concentrations, CYP2E1 enzyme levels, and incubation time. The rates of epsilon dAS formation were highly correlated with VC concentrations. Peak rates were produced by lung microsomes and recombinant CYP2E1 at 3.0 and 2.5 mM VC, respectively. In inhibitory studies, incubations of VC were performed using lung microsomes from mice treated with the CYP2E1 inhibitor diallyl sulfone (100 mg/kg, p.o.). Results from these studies showed significantly decreased epsilon dAS formation in microsomes incubated with VC, with an inhibition of 70% at 3.0 mM. These findings suggested that CYP2E1 is a major enzyme mediating VC oxidation, leading to the formation of a metabolite that alkylates DNA to form the epsilon dAS adduct.
Mechanism of Phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor relief of prostatitis symptoms.	Chronic prostatitis is a common urological complaint without clearly defined causation or definitive treatment.
Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry assay to determine the pharmacokinetics of aildenafil in human plasma.	A simple, sensitive and specific liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method for the quantitation of aildenafil, a new phosphodiesterase V inhibitor, in human plasma is presented. The analyte and internal standard, sildenafil, were extracted by a one-step liquid-liquid extraction in alkaline conditions and separated on a C(18) column using ammonia:10mM ammonium acetate buffer:methanol (0.1:15:85, v/v/v) as the mobile phase. The detection by an API 4000 triple quadrupole mass spectrometer in multiple-reaction monitoring mode was completed within 2.5 min. The calibration curve exhibited a linear dynamic range of 0.05-100 ng/ml with a 10 pg/ml limit of detection. The intra- and inter-day precisions measured as relative standard deviation were within 8.04% and 5.72%, respectively. This method has been used in a pharmacokinetic study of aildenafil in healthy male volunteers each given an oral administration of one of the three dosages.
Sildenafil citrate attenuates a complex maze impairment induced by intracerebroventricular infusion of the NOS inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester.	In a previous study, our laboratory reported that sildenafil citrate, a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, reversed a learning impairment in rats induced by systemic inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (60 mg/kg, i.p., Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester; L-NAME). To limit the peripheral effects of L-NAME and further localize the site of action of sildenafil, L-NAME (48 microg, i.c.v.) was infused bilaterally into the lateral cerebral ventricles 30 min prior to maze training. Saline or sildenafil citrate (1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered systemically 15 min before training. Drug injections occurred 24 h after pretraining rats to avoid foot shock on a one-way active avoidance straight runway. Following drug treatment, the rats received 15 training trials on a 14-unit T-maze task that requires learning a complex sequence of turns to avoid mild foot shock. This complex maze paradigm is sensitive to aging and blockade of cholinergic, N-methyl-D-aspartate and nitric oxide signaling systems. Behavioral measures of performance included deviations from the correct pathway (errors), runtime from start to goal (latency), shock frequency and shock duration. Statistical analysis revealed that central infusion of L-NAME impaired maze performance and that sildenafil (3.0 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the impairment. These results suggest that sildenafil citrate may serve as a cognitive enhancer by modulating central nitric oxide/cGMP signal transduction following N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. This pathway has been implicated in age-related cognitive decline and may be a useful target for pharmacological intervention of neurodegenerative disease.
Efficacy of vardenafil and influence on self-esteem and self-confidence in patients with severe erectile dysfunction.	To assess the efficacy of vardenafil in a population of Spanish men with erectile dysfunction (ED), its influence on patients' self-esteem and self-confidence, and its effect on their quality of life.
The correlation between erectile function and patient satisfaction.	The International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) has become the gold standard inventory for the assessment of sexual function in drug trials and in clinical research. Normalization of the erectile function domain (EFD) score, an end of treatment score of 26 or higher, is an end-point that is currently being used routinely in drug trials. It has been our experience that some men with scores less that 26 on a sexual pharmaceutical are content with their sexual function. We undertook this study to define what proportion of men with EFD scores <26 are satisfied with their therapeutic response.
Acute haemodynamic responses to inhaled nitric oxide and intravenous sildenafil in distal chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH).	Although surgery is the treatment of choice for CTEPH, it is not appropriate for patients with surgically inaccessible distal disease. These patients are traditionally managed supportively, but may benefit from newer, more specific vasoactive therapies. This study examines the acute haemodynamic responses to inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) and intravenous sildenafil in this patient population.
Long-term effects of early administered sildenafil and NO donor on the cardiovascular system of SHR.	We evaluated the long-term effect of NO-donor, pentaerythrityl tetranitrate (Petn), and sildenafil citrate (sildenafil) on the cardiovascular system of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). Petn (100 mg/kg/day) and sildenafil (10 mg/kg/day) were administered to SHR individually or together from week 4 (pre-hypertensive period) to week 9 of age. Blood pressure (BP) was measured using a plethysmographic method. The animals were perfused with a glutaraldehyde fixative (120 mmHg). Carotid (AC) and coronary artery (RS) were processed according to electron microscopy procedure. Geometry of the arteries was measured on semi-thin sections using light microscopy. Administration of Petn and sildenafil to SHR individually or together did not prevent an increase of BP, but evoked a decrease of cardiac hypertrophy. Petn and sildenafil affected the geometry of RS and AC differently. In the RS, an increase of inner diameter (ID) without an increase of wall thickness (WT) resulted in increased WT/ID and circumferential stress. In the AC, changes in ID were accompanied by changes in WT and, thereby, WT/ID and circumferential stress remained unchanged. The arterial wall mass of both arteries was increased. The data suggest that administration of the NO donor, Petn, and/or sildenafil does not result in a beneficial effect on the myocardium or on the geometry of the carotid and coronary arteries.
Firocoxib efficacy preventing urate-induced synovitis, pain, and inflammation in dogs.	This positive-control study evaluated the efficacy of firocoxib versus carprofen, deracoxib, and meloxicam for the prevention of pain and inflammation in a urate crystal synovitis model of lameness. Lameness scoring and force plate gait analysis were used to assess efficacy. The resulting lameness scores and force plate ground reaction forces after urate crystal injection were not significantly different among the groups. Relative to each group's baseline (nonlame) score, only the firocoxib group was not significantly lame, based on lameness score, at the model's peak effect.
Similar effects of rofecoxib and indomethacin on the incidence of heterotopic ossification after hip arthroplasty.	Although indomethacin is effective in preventing heterotopic ossification (HO) after primary total hip arthroplasty, side effects are frequently observed. In the last decade a new class of drugs--the COX-2 selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs--has been developed. To investigate the effect of these COX-2 selective NSAIDs on heterotopic ossification (HO) after primary total hip arthroplasty (THA), we conducted a randomized controlled trial using either indomethacin or rofecoxib for 7 days.
Selective COX-2 inhibitor versus indomethacin for the prevention of heterotopic ossification after hip replacement: a double-blind randomized trial of 100 patients with 1-year follow-up.	Recent reports have suggested that selective COX-2 inhibition may be sufficient for the prevention of heterotopic ossification.
Oral sildenafil ameliorates impaired pulmonary circulation early after bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt.	We report a case of successful administration of oral sildenafil (ie, a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor) in an infant for impaired pulmonary circulation that caused early clinical deterioration after a bicavopulmonary shunt. The transpulmonary pressure gradient (ie, a clinical indicator of pulmonary circulation) was initially normalized by inhaled nitric oxide; however, an increase in transpulmonary pressure gradient and oxygen desaturation occurred after extubation and discontinuation of inhaled nitric oxide on postoperative day 1. Subsequent administration of oral sildenafil in stepwise doses resulted in normalization of transpulmonary pressure gradient and improved oxygen saturation with successful discontinuation of intravenous vasodilators. Our results suggest that oral sildenafil may be a potent adjunctive therapy for impaired postoperative pulmonary circulation after right heart bypass surgery.
A systematic review of experimental and clinical studies of sildenafil citrate for intrauterine growth restriction and pre-term labour.	Sildenafil could be an alternative in the treatment of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and premature delivery. In order to systematically review the reproductive-related effects of sildenafil, a search was made on PubMed and the Science Citation Index for studies evaluating the effects of sildenafil on uterine vessels or myometrium either in vitro or in experimental animal models as well as for any clinical trial or case reporting the outcome of pregnant women treated with sildenafil. The information was obtained from: three in vitro studies, five studies performed in experimental animal models, four studies on women with fertility and sterility disorders receiving 100 mg/day of sildenafil intravaginally, and two case reports of pregnant women who received sildenafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Incubation with sildenafil of different in vitro preparations resulted in vasodilator and uterine relaxant effects. No evidence of teratogenicity was observed in the studies performed in mice, rats and dogs. Sildenafil increased fetal weight in rats. In women, contradictory results on uterine blood flow and endometrial development were reported after the intravaginal administration of sildenafil. No adverse fetal outcomes were reported in the two pregnant women with pulmonary hypertension receiving sildenafil late in their pregnancy. In conclusion, there is still limited information about the efficacy of sildenafil for the treatment of IUGR and premature delivery. However, studies in experimental animal models and two human case reports have reported no deleterious effects on the mother or offspring.
How long do patients with erectile dysfunction continue to use sildenafil citrate? Dropout rate from treatment course as outcome in real life.	To study the dropout rate for use of sildenafil after initial prescription and during successful treatment to clarify their risk factors.
Therapeutic efficacy of a course administration of vardenafil--inhibitor of phosphodiesterase-5--in erectile dysfunction]	We studied a therapeutic effect of long-term and regular use of vardenafil which is an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) in patients with erectile dysfunction (n=32, mean age 35.7 +/- 6.8 years). They received the drug daily for 1 month in a dose 10 mg in the evening without direct sexual realization of the drug action. Before the treatment, upon 1 and 2 months of therapy the patients filled in questionnaire International Index of Erectile Function Scale (IIEFS) and underwent pharmacoechodopplerography of the penis. The erection scores by IIEFS after 1 month of vardenafil therapy increased from 17.8 +/- 4.5 to 23.7 +/- 5.3 (p < 0.01). On posttreatment day 30 this parameter went down to 21.9 +/- 5.6 scores (p < 0.01). However, this value was significantly better than the baseline (p < 0.01). The same dynamics was observed in objective indices of penile hemodynamics. Thus, routine daily intake of vardenafil produces a significant and persistent improvement of erectile function.
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of orally administered firocoxib, a novel second generation coxib, in horses.	The primary objective of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetic profile of firocoxib, a novel second generation coxib, in horses. Horses were administered either a single oral or intravenous dose of firocoxib at 0.1 mg/kg in a two-period crossover study with 12 animals. The dosage was based on previously determined pharmacodynamic parameters. Oral firocoxib was well absorbed with an average bioavailability (absolute) of 79% and a Cmax of 75 ng/mL at 3.9 h. The average elimination half-life was 30 h. Following intravenous administration the average Cmax was 210 ng/mL and the elimination half-life was 34 h. The area under the curve [AUC(0-tlast)] was 1.8 microg.h/mL for the oral dose and 2.3 microg.h/mL for the intravenous dose. Firocoxib was widely distributed with a volume of distribution value of 1.7 L/kg for the intravenous dose. Biotransformation of firocoxib was via dealkylation and glucuronidation to inactive metabolites, namely descyclopropylmethylfirocoxib and its glucuronide conjugate. Urinary excretion was the major route of elimination, and the clearance rate was 37 mL/h/kg.
Evaluation of the adverse effects of oral firocoxib in healthy dogs.	This study evaluated the adverse effects of oral firocoxib in dogs. Six dogs (20.2+/-6.3 kg) were studied. Values for complete blood count (CBC), serum urea, creatinine, alanine transaminase, alanine phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, occult blood in feces, platelet aggregation, and buccal mucosal bleeding time were measured before and 7, 14, 21, and 29 days after SID treatment with firocoxib 5.3+/-0.34 mg/kg (FG) or lactose 1 mg/kg (LG) for 28 days, in a randomized crossover study. Gastrointestinal (GI) tract endoscopy was performed before treatment began and at 29 days. Lesions were scored from grade 0 to 6. Data were analyzed using anova and paired t-tests (P<0.05). None of the dogs presented adverse clinical effects. There were no significant changes in CBC, biochemical profiles within groups, or differences between groups. Pretreatment mean+/-SD bleeding time (LG, 70.7+/-32.1 sec; FG, 75.8+/-38.1 sec) and platelet aggregation (LG, 86.4+/-10.2%; FG, 85.6+/-9.2%) were not significantly different from readings at 29 days (LG, 95.2+/-25 sec; FG, 91.7+/-24 sec and LG, 73.2+/-15.1%; FG, 84+/-10.3%) nor the groups were different. None of the dogs had positive fecal occult blood tests, and endoscopic lesion scores were grade 0 both before treatment and at 29 days. Administration of firocoxib did not cause any adverse effects on GI, or hematological or serum biochemical variables and appears to have been well tolerated by dogs.
Multi-level modeling to explain methamphetamine use among gay and bisexual men.	The popularity of methamphetamine among gay men has been documented; however, few studies have examined the complex behavioral and psychological motivations behind methamphetamine use, particularly over time. This study aimed to (i) identify the trajectories for methamphetamine use; (ii) explore factors related to methamphetamine use; and (iii) determine factors which predict changes in usage over a year.
Why a combined intracavernosal injection with trimix and oral sildenafil is reliable therapy in the ultrasonographic evaluation of erectile dysfunction.	To evaluate prospectively and compare the clinical response and the change in nucleotides correlating with haemodynamic changes in the cavernosal arteries after an intracavernosal injection (ICI) with vasoactive agents with or without oral sildenafil in men with erectile dysfunction (ED).
Sildenafil improves the beneficial haemodynamic effects of intravenous nitrite infusion during acute pulmonary embolism.	Acute pulmonary embolism produces acute pulmonary hypertension, which can be counteracted by activating the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) pathway. While previous studies have shown that sildenafil (an inhibitor of cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase type 5) or nitrite (a storage molecule for nitric oxide) produces beneficial effects during acute pulmonary embolism, no previous study has examined whether the combination of these drugs can produce additive effects. Here, we expand previous findings and examine whether sildenafil enhances the beneficial haemodynamic effects produced by a low-dose infusion of nitrite in a dog model of acute pulmonary embolism. Haemodynamic and arterial blood gas evaluations were performed in non-embolized dogs treated with saline (n = 4), and in embolized dogs (intravenous injections of microspheres) that received nitrite (6.75 micromol/kg intravenously over 15 min. followed by 0.28 micromol/kg/min.) and sildenafil (0.25 mg/kg over 30 min.; n = 8), or nitrite followed by saline (n = 8), or saline followed by sildenafil (n = 7), or only saline (n = 8). Plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) concentrations were determined using a fluorometric method. Acute pulmonary embolism increased pulmonary artery pressure by approximately 24 mmHg. While the infusion of nitrite or sildenafil infusions reversed this increase by approximately 42% (both P < 0.05), the combined infusion of both drugs reversed this increase by approximately 58% (P < 0.05). Similar effects were seen on the pulmonary vascular resistance index. Nitrite or sildenafil alone produced no significant hypotension. However, the combined infusion of both drugs caused transient hypotension (P < 0.05). Both drugs, either alone or combined, blunted the increase in TBARS concentrations caused by acute pulmonary embolism (all P < 0.05). These results suggest that sildenafil improves the beneficial haemodynamic effects of nitrite during acute pulmonary embolism.
Platelet cyclic guanosine monophosphate as a biomarker of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor efficacy in the treatment of erectile dysfunction: a randomized placebo-controlled study.	Phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors (PDE5-Is) are a mainstay in the therapy of erectile dysfunction (ED). The primary end point of clinical efficacy, both in clinical studies and normal practice, is represented by the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF).
The use of sildenafil in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.	We evaluated the effectiveness of sildenafil in the treatment of neonatal pulmonary hypertension. We performed a double-blind randomized clinical trial in 51 full-term infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension confirmed by Doppler echocardiography. Patients were divided in two groups: 20 infants in group A received placebo when the oxygenation index was >20, and 31 infants in group B received 3 mg/kg of oral sildenafil every 6 hours. Arterial blood gases were taken at 1, 4, 7, 13, 19, and 25 hours after treatment was started. Main outcome measures were oxygenation changes, time on mechanical ventilation, and mortality. Both groups were comparable in general variables as well as in illness severity. We observed better oxygenation parameters after 7 hours of sildenafil treatment, but no significant changes were found in the placebo group. Mortality was higher in the placebo group (40%) than in those infants who received sildenafil (6%; P = 0.004), although no difference was found in time on mechanical ventilation between groups. Our results confirm that sildenafil may be a useful adjuvant therapy for term infants with pulmonary hypertension in centers lacking inhaled nitric oxide and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
Sildenafil prevents mortality and reduces hippocampal damage after permanent, stepwise, 4-vessel occlusion in rats.	The present study evaluated the effects of sildenafil using the 4-vessel occlusion (VO)/internal carotid artery (ICA) model of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (HCC). We previously found that permanent, three-stage occlusion of the vertebral arteries (VA) and ICA, four-VO/ICA, with an interstage interval (ISI) of 7 days was innocuous and caused no structural or functional outcomes in rats. Therefore, before testing sildenafil, we evaluated how a reduction in the number of occlusion stages (from three stages to two) and a shortening of the ISI might impact the survival rate, capacity for learning and memory, and histomorphological integrity of the hippocampus. Survival decreased from 100% to 70%, 62%, and 0% as the ISI was shortened from 7 to 5, 4, or 3 days, respectively. Using the two shortest ISIs, sildenafil (0.75-3.0 mg/kg, p.o.) abolished the mortality rate by approximately 95%. Profound neurodegeneration occurred in the CA1, CA2, CA3, and CA4 hippocampal subfields after an ISI of 4 days. Despite this, however, memory performance was unaffected. Subsequently, sildenafil treatment reduced 4-VO/ICA-induced hippocampal damage. The present results suggest that sildenafil may be potentially beneficial in the treatment of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. Further studies should examine the manner by which the chronic 4-VO/ICA model may effectively cause cognitive impairment, thus improving its applicability in testing the effects of drugs against structural and/or functional outcomes of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion.
Sildenafil and glyceryl trinitrate reduce tactile allodynia in streptozotocin-injected rats.	The possible antiallodynic effect of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor sildenafil and nitric oxide donor glyceryl trinitrate as well as the changes in phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression in dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord of allodynic diabetic rats was assessed. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin (50mg/kg, i.p.) in male Wistar rats. Streptozotocin injection produced hyperlglycemia, polydipsia, polyphagia and polyuria as well as long-term tactile allodynia (12 weeks) and a reduction of phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression in spinal cord of diabetic rats. Systemic administration of sildenafil (1-5.6 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced tactile allodynia in a dose-dependent manner in diabetic rats. Likewise, glyceryl trinitrate patches (0.2mg/h) also reduced tactile allodynia in diabetic rats. Moreover, both drugs reversed streptozotocin-induced phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression reduction. Our results indicate that glyceryl trinitrate and sildenafil reduce tactile allodynia in diabetic rats suggesting that nitric oxide and cyclic GMP supply is an important step in their mechanism of action of these drugs in diabetic animals. Data suggest that nitric oxide donors (as glyceryl trinitrate) and drugs which increase cyclic GMP levels (as sildenafil) could have a role in the pharmacotherapy of tactile allodynia in diabetic patients.
A comparison of magnesium sulphate and sildenafil in the treatment of the newborns with persistent pulmonary hypertension: a randomized controlled trial.	The aim of this prospective, randomized and controlled study was to compare the clinical efficacy of intravenous magnesium sulfate (MgSO₄) and oral sildenafil therapies with persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. A total of 34 infants in the MgSO₄ group and 31 infants in the sildenafil group completed the study. The time to reach the adequate clinical response [defined as oxygen index (OI) level of <15, a pulmonary artery pressure of < 20 mmHg) was significantly shorter in the sildenafil group (p = 0.002). Duration of mechanical ventilation was longer and the number of the patients requiring inotropic support was higher in the MgSO₄ group (p = 0.001 and p = 0.002, respectively). Although among two groups the difference in OI > 5 as speculated in our hypothesis could only be found at 36 h of the treatment, sildenafil was more effective than MgSO₄ in the treatment of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborns with regard to time to adequate clinical response, duration of mechanical ventilation and support requirement with inotropic agents.
Topical metal chelation therapy ameliorates oxidation-induced toxicity in diabetic cataract.	Oxidative stress plays a critical role in cataractogenesis, the leading cause of blindness worldwide. Since transition metals generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, metal chelation therapy has been proposed for treatment of cataracts. However, the effectiveness of most chelators is limited by low tissue penetrability. This study is the first to demonstrate that the topically applied divalent metal chelator ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) combined with the carrier and permeability enhancer methyl sulfonyl methane (MSM) ameliorates both oxidation-induced lens opacification and the associated toxic accumulation of protein-4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) adducts. Both in vitro (rat lens culture) and in vivo (diabetic rats), EDTA-MSM (1) significantly reduced lens opacification by about 40-50%, (2) significantly diminished lens epithelial cell proliferation and fiber cell swelling in early stages of cataract formation in vivo, and (3) notably decreased the levels of protein-HNE adducts. These findings have important implications specifically for the treatment of cataract and generally for other diseases in which oxidative stress plays a key pathogenic role.
A feasibility study comparing pharmacist and physician recommendations for sildenafil treatment.	In Europe, pharmacists may be an important first point of contact for men with erectile dysfunction (ED) asking for advice and treatment.
Effect of oral sildenafil on skin postocclusive reactive hyperemia in healthy volunteers.	  Sildenafil is a type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitor that has a theoretical ability to increase hyperemia following a short bout of ischemia. We tested if oral sildenafil increases skin PORH in healthy volunteers.
Therapeutic efficacy of TBC3711 in monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension.	Endothelin-1 signalling plays an important role in pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension. Although different endothelin-A receptor antagonists are developed, a novel therapeutic option to cure the disease is still needed. This study aims to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of the selective endothelin-A receptor antagonist TBC3711 in monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension in rats.
Comparative bioavailability of two sildenafil tablet formulations after single-dose administration in healthy Thai male volunteers.	To compare the rate and extent of absorption of two sildenafil tablet formulations (Tonafil®, T.O. Chemicals (1979) Ltd., Thailand as a test formulation and Viagra®, Pfizer Pty Limited., Australia as a reference formulation) in healthy Thai male volunteers after single-dose administration under fasting condition.
Efficacy of alfuzosin and sildenafil combination in male patients with lower urinary tract symptoms.	Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and erectile dysfunction (ED) are frequently encountered in ageing males. We compared the efficacy of alfuzosin 10 mg alone or in combination with sildenafil 50 mg in the treatment of LUTS due to benign prostatic hyperplasia. One hundred male patients older than 45 years were randomized to two groups containing 50 patients each; one group receiving alfuzosin 10 mg and the other group alfuzosin 10 mg combined with sildenafil 50 mg. International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), quality of life (QoL), maximum flow rate (Q(max)), prostate volume and post-void residual urine were evaluated. The mean age was 60.2 ± 17.8. Mean data of evaluated parameters in both groups at the end of 3rd month compared with baseline values are given respective order as; 5.1 (26.8%) and 5.8 (28.2%) points decreases in IPSS; 1.6 (41.1%) and 1.8 (45%) points decreases in QoL; and 3.4 (29.6%) and 3.4 (33%) points increases in Q(max) . The outcomes of our study cannot be interpreted in such a way to report that alpha blocker-PDE5 inhibitor combination has a better efficacy than alpha blocker treatment alone in patients with LUTS.
Enhancement of myocardial and vascular function after phosphodiesterase-5 inhibition in a rat model.	Recent studies have shown the potential of PDE-5 inhibition on acute and chronic heart failure. Nevertheless it remained unclear, how far load-reducing properties and direct effects on myocardial contractility are responsible for these observations. In the present study, we investigated the effects of vardenafil on myocardial contractility and vascular function in a dose-response study.
Treatment with sildenafil and treprostinil allows successful liver transplantation of patients with moderate to severe portopulmonary hypertension.	Portopulmonary hypertension (PoPH) refers to pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with portal hypertension with or without evidence of an underlying liver disease. Despite the potential for curing PoPH with liver transplantation, the presence of moderate or severe PoPH is associated with increased morbidity and mortality and is, therefore, a contraindication to transplantation. Previous studies have predominantly used intravenous epoprostenol for treatment in order to qualify patients for liver transplantation. In this retrospective case series, we describe the clinical course of 11 patients whom we successfully treated (predominantly with oral sildenafil and subcutaneous treprostinil) in order to qualify them for liver transplantation. The mean pulmonary artery pressure significantly improved from 44 to 32.9 mm Hg, and the pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 431 to 173 dyn second cm(-5) . There were significant improvements in the cardiac output and the transpulmonary gradient with these therapies as well. All 11 patients subsequently received liver transplants with a 0% mortality rate to date; the duration of follow-up ranged from 7 to 60 months. After transplantation, 7 of the 11 patients (64%) were off all pulmonary vasodilators, and only 2 patients required transiently increased doses of prostacyclins. In conclusion, an aggressive approach to the treatment of PoPH with sildenafil and/or treprostinil and subsequent liver transplantation may be curative for PoPH in some patients.
Impact of sildenafil on echocardiographic indices of myocardial performance after the Fontan operation.	The objective of this study was describe the impact of sildenafil on echocardiographic measures of myocardial performance in children and young adults with a functional single-ventricle physiology late after Fontan surgery. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial was conducted in children and young adults after the Fontan operation at a single pediatric center. Subjects were randomized to receive placebo or sildenafil (20 mg tid) for 6 weeks. After a 6-week washout period, subjects were crossed for an additional 6 weeks. Each subject underwent an echocardiogram at the start and finish of each phase. A total of 27 subjects completed study testing at a mean age of 14.9 years and a mean time from Fontan surgery of 11.3 years. After sildenafil, subjects demonstrated improvement in their myocardial performance index (MPI; -0.051; 95% CI -0.095, -0.0077; p 0.02) and in the product of the velocity time integral (VTI) of the dominant outflow tract and the heart rate (HR; 110 cm × bpm; 95% CI 7.5, 220; p = 0.04). Measures of diastolic performance, including inflow velocities, myocardial velocities, and the ratio of blood pool velocity to myocardial velocity during passive inflow, did not change. In this cohort, there were significant improvements in both the MPI and the product of the VTI × HR after 6 weeks of treatment with sildenafil. These findings suggest that sildenafil may be a useful therapy to improve or maintain ventricular performance in select patients after the Fontan operation.
Directed therapy for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) by suppression of cyclin D1 with ON 01910.Na.	We previously demonstrated upregulation of c-myc, survivin, and cyclin D1 in CD34+ bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNCs) of patients with trisomy 8 and monosomy 7 myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). "Knockdown" of cyclin D1 by RNA interference decreased trisomy 8 cell growth, suggesting that this might be a therapeutic target in MDS.
A nanohybrid system for taste masking of sildenafil.	A nanohybrid was prepared with an inorganic clay material, montmorillonite (MMT), for taste masking of sildenafil (SDN). To further improve the taste-masking efficiency and enhance the drug-release rate, we coated the nanohybrid of SDN-MMT with a basic polymer, polyvinylacetal diethylaminoacetate (AEA). Powder X-ray diffraction and Fourier transform infrared experiments showed that SDN was successfully intercalated into the interlayer space of MMT. The AEA-coated SDN-MMT nanohybrid showed drug release was much suppressed at neutral pH (release rate, 4.70 ± 0.53%), suggesting a potential for drug taste masking at the buccal cavity. We also performed in vitro drug release experiments in a simulated gastric fluid (pH = 1.2) and compared the drug-release profiles of AEA-coated SDN-MMT and Viagra(®), an approved dosage form of SDN. As a result, about 90% of SDN was released from the AEA-coated SDN-MMT during the first 2 hours while almost 100% of drug was released from Viagra(®). However, an in vivo experiment showed that the AEA-coated SDN-MMT exhibited higher drug exposure than Viagra(®). For the AEA-coated SDN-MMT, the area under the plasma concentration- time curve from 0 hours to infinity (AUC(0-∞)) and maximum concentration (C(max)) were 78.8 ± 2.32 μg · hour/mL and 12.4 ± 0.673 μg/mL, respectively, both of which were larger than those obtained with Viagra(®) (AUC(0-∞) = 69.2 ± 3.19 μg · hour/mL; C(max) = 10.5 ± 0.641 μg/mL). Therefore, we concluded that the MMT-based nanohybrid is a promising delivery system for taste masking of SDN with possibly improved drug exposure.
A multiple-ascending-dose study to evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of a novel GPR40 agonist, TAK-875, in subjects with type 2 diabetes.	G-protein-coupled receptor 40 (GPR40), highly expressed in pancreatic β-cells, mediates free fatty acid (FFA)-induced insulin secretion. This phase I, double-blind, randomized study investigated the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) of a novel, glucose-lowering GPR40 agonist, TAK-875 (q.d., orally × 14 days), in type 2 diabetics (placebo, n = 14; at 25, 50, 100, 200, or 400 mg, n = 45). Approximately dose-proportional increases in AUC(0-24) and C(max) occurred. TAK-875 showed good tolerability with no dose-limiting side effects. Two subjects (on TAK-875) had mild hypoglycemia, probably related to prolonged fasting after oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs). TAK-875 showed reductions from baseline in fasting (2 to -93 mg/dl) and post-OGTT glucose (26 to -172 mg/dl), with an apparent dose-dependent increase in post-OGTT C-peptide over 14 days. Consistent with preclinical data, TAK-875 apparently acts as a glucose-dependent insulinotropic agent with low hypoglycemic risk. Its PK is suitable for once-daily oral administration.
The glucokinase activator AZD6370 decreases fasting and postprandial glucose in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with effects influenced by dosing regimen and food.	To investigate the pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics and safety of the glucokinase activator AZD6370 after 1 day of administration under fed and fasted conditions in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Protective effect of L-carnitine combined with sildenafil on the reproductive endocrine function of diabetic male rats]	To investigate the protective effect of L-carnitine (LC) combined with sildenafil on the reproductive endocrine function of male rats with diabetes mellitus (DM).
The effects of cyclic guanylate cyclase stimulation on right ventricular hypertrophy and failure alone and in combination with phosphodiesterase-5 inhibition.	We investigated if soluble guanylate cyclase stimulation either alone or in combination with phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibition could prevent pressure overload-induced right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy and failure.
Nitric oxide-releasing polymeric microspheres improve diabetes-related erectile dysfunction.	We have used a long-acting nitric oxide (NO)-releasing polymer to develop injectable biodegradable microspheres capable of localized NO release over prolonged periods of time.
Comparison of the therapeutic and side effects of tadalafil and sildenafil in children and adolescents with pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive disease. In recent years, phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors such as sildenafil have been used to treat this disease in children. Recently, tadalafil has been used in adults with similar efficacy but it has been used less often in children. This experimental study was carried out in 18 known patients aged 4-24 years in the Emam Hossein Hospital of Isfahan, Iran. All patients had been taking sildenafil for a few months to years. Patients underwent echocardiographic study, the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), and non-invasive pulse oximetry before and after the 6MWT. These tests were repeated again after sildenafil had been switched to tadalafil for 6 weeks. After 6 weeks of tadalafil prescription, the severity of some of the patients' symptoms decreased, but the New York Heart Association class of the patients did not change more. Mean ± standard deviation (SD) oxygen saturation while taking sildenafil and after 6 weeks of tadalafil were significantly different (p = 0.005). Furthermore, mean ± SD oxygen saturation after the 6MWT while taking sildenafil and after 6 weeks of tadalafil were significantly different (p = 0.036). The mean ± SD distances walked in this test while taking sildenafil and tadalafil were significantly different (p = 0.005). No significant side effects were seen; 15 patients continued tadalafil. Tadalafil may be a safe drug to treat children and young adults with PAH. We did not observe any significant side effects during usage; it improves functional capacity and oxygen saturation better than sildenafil in these patients, and requires fewer daily doses than sildenafil.
Sildenafil improves exercise hemodynamics in Fontan patients.	Patients with Fontan circulation have reduced exercise capacity. The absence of a presystemic pump may limit flow through the pulmonary circulation, restricting ventricular filling and cardiac output. We evaluated exercise hemodynamics and the effect of sildenafil on exercise hemodynamics in Fontan patients.
Phase I study of oral rigosertib (ON 01910.Na), a dual inhibitor of the PI3K and Plk1 pathways, in adult patients with advanced solid malignancies.	To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK), maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety, and antitumor activity of an oral formulation of rigosertib, a dual phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) pathway inhibitor, in patients with advanced solid malignancies.
Metal chelator combined with permeability enhancer ameliorates oxidative stress-associated neurodegeneration in rat eyes with elevated intraocular pressure.	Because as many as half of glaucoma patients on intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering therapy continue to experience optic nerve toxicity, it is imperative to find other effective therapies. Iron and calcium ions play key roles in oxidative stress, a hallmark of glaucoma. Therefore, we tested metal chelation by means of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) combined with the permeability enhancer methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) applied topically on the eye to determine if this noninvasive treatment is neuroprotective in rat optic nerve and retinal ganglion cells exposed to oxidative stress induced by elevated IOP. Hyaluronic acid (HA) was injected into the anterior chamber of the rat eye to elevate the IOP. EDTA-MSM was applied topically to the eye for 3 months. Eyeballs and optic nerves were processed for histological assessment of cytoarchitecture. Protein-lipid aldehyde adducts and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were detected immunohistochemically. HA administration increased IOP and associated oxidative stress and inflammation. Elevated IOP was not affected by EDTA-MSM treatment. However, oxidative damage and inflammation were ameliorated as reflected by a decrease in formation of protein-lipid aldehyde adducts and COX-2 expression, respectively. Furthermore, EDTA-MSM treatment increased retinal ganglion cell survival and decreased demyelination of optic nerve compared with untreated eyes. Chelation treatment with EDTA-MSM ameliorates sequelae of IOP-induced toxicity without affecting IOP. Because most current therapies aim at reducing IOP and damage occurs even in the absence of elevated IOP, EDTA-MSM has the potential to work in conjunction with pressure-reducing therapies to alleviate damage to the optic nerve and retinal ganglion cells. 
L-648,051, a novel cysteinyl-leukotriene antagonist is active by the inhaled route in man.	1. We have studied some of the pharmacological properties of inhaled L-648,051 which has been shown to be a selective cysteinyl-leukotriene (LT) antagonist in vitro and in vivo in various animal models. 2. The effects of three different doses (1.6, 6.0 and 12.0 mg) on the bronchoconstriction induced by inhaled LTD4 have been investigated in normal male subjects in a series of double-blind, placebo controlled studies. Furthermore, the specificity of the drug has been investigated by challenging subjects with histamine after pre-inhalation of 12.0 mg L-648,051. 3. At all doses L-648,051 partially blocked the bronchoconstriction induced by LTD4 inhalation in a dose related manner. At a dose of 12.0 mg, L-648,051 decreased the maximum fall in specific airways conductance (sGaw) (placebo, 49% vs L-648,051, 21%, P less than 0.01) and shortened the time to recovery from LTD4-induced bronchoconstriction (placebo, 41 min vs L-648,051, 19 min, P less than 0.01). 4. There was no evidence of partial agonist activity, and no effect on histamine-induced bronchospasm. Inhaled L-648,051 at all doses was well tolerated. 5. We conclude that LT antagonism is possible by the inhaled route in man. Inhaled L-648,051 is an active and selective LT-antagonist in man which is well tolerated and may prove to be a useful drug for assessing the role of leukotrienes in asthma and other lung diseases.
Dose-dependent reduction of myocardial infarct mass in rabbits by the NHE-1 inhibitor cariporide (HOE 642).	The aim of this study was to investigate the dose-dependent effect of pretreatment with the selective sodium-hydrogen exchange NHE-subtype 1 inhibitor cariporide on myocardial infarct mass in a rabbit model of coronary ligation and reperfusion. Furthermore, in a second part of the study, we tested the effect of cariporide in the rabbits when given prior to reperfusion. Rabbits (n=49) were randomized in 7 groups: saline vehicle, cariporide: 0.01, 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, and subjected to a 30 min occlusion of a branch of the left coronary artery followed by 2 h reperfusion. Cariporide was given as a bolus intravenously 10 min before occlusion or 5 min before reperfusion. After reperfusion, myocardial infarct mass was determined by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and expressed as a percent of area at risk. Cariporide given intravenously 10 min before occlusion in doses of 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3 mg/kg, led to a dose-dependent reduction in infarct mass from 58+/-6% in controls to 48+/-4% (-17%, NS), 36+/-5% (-38%, p<0.05), 26+/-6% (-55%, p<0.05), 11+/-4% (-81%, p<0.05) respectively, whereas area at risk did not differ in between the groups. The effect of the lowest dose of 0.01 mg/kg did not reach significance. Plasma levels at different doses of cariporide were correlated to the respective infarct mass. After coronary occlusion left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) significantly increased throughout occlusion and reperfusion. Cariporide in the doses of 0.3, 0.1 and 0.03 mg/kg normalized LVEDP when measured after 2 h reperfusion. In controls hemodynamic parameters such as mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), left ventricular pressure (LVP) and LV dP/dt(max) were not significantly changed by ischemia/reperfusion with the exception of MAP, LVP and LV dP/dt(max) which were significantly decreased after 120 min reperfusion. Cariporide at doses of 0.1, 0.03 and 0.01 mg/kg did not significantly influence these parameters, whereas the highest dose of 0.3 mg/kg prevented the decrease of MAP and LVP. Cariporide (0.3 mg/kg i.v.) administered 5 min before reperfusion significantly reduced infarct mass by 31%. Under these conditions the increase of LVEDP after coronary occlusion was not influenced by cariporide. As in the pretreatment experiments, the decrease of MAP and LVP was prevented when measured 2 h after reperfusion. The results show that pretreatment with the NHE-subtype 1 inhibitor cariporide is cardioprotective by reducing infarct mass in rabbits in a dose-dependent manner. While the cardioprotective effect of pretreatment could be demonstrated over a broad range of doses, the efficacy of the compound when given only on reperfusion was significant but more limited.
