Identification of toxin inhibitors using a magnetic nanosensor-based assay.	A magnetic nanosensor-based method is described to screen a library of drugs for potential binding to toxins. Screening is performed by measuring changes in the magnetic relaxation signal of the nanosensors (bMR nanosensors) in aqueous suspension upon addition of the toxin. The Anthrax lethal factor (ALF) is selected as a model toxin to test the ability of our bMR nanosensor-based screening method to identify potential inhibitors of the toxin. Out of 30 molecules screened, sulindac, naproxen and fusaric acid are found to bind LF, with dissociation constants in the low micromolar range. Further biological analysis of the free molecules in solution indicate that sulindac and its metabolic products inhibited LF cytotoxicity to macrophages with IC50 values in the micromolar range. Meanwhile, fusaric acid is found to be less effective at inhibiting LF cytotoxicity, while naproxen does not inhibit LF toxicity. Most importantly, when the sulindac and fusaric acid-bMR nanosensors themselves are tested as LF inhibitors, as opposed to the corresponding free molecules, they are stronger inhibitors of LF with IC50 values in the nanomolar range. Taken together, these studies show that a bMR nanosensors-based assay can be used to screen known drugs and other small molecules for inhibitor of toxins. The method can be easily modified to screen for inhibitors of other molecular interactions and not only the selected free molecule can be study as potential inhibitors but also the bMR nanosensors themselves achieving greater inhibitory potential. 
Stimulation of apoptosis by sulindac and piroxicam.	1.Sulindac, cis-5-fluoro-2-methyl-1-(p-methylsulphinylbenzylidene)indene-3-ace tic acid, inhibits growth of colon polyps and cancers. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis but more recent observations indicate that, in vitro, cells that do not have cyclo-oxygenase nor RNA for synthesis of such enzymes are affected by sulindac. Therefore the presumptive effect is probably not correct.2.It has also been found that sulindac stimulates apoptosis. It is herein postulated that in tumour cells such effects may be due to interaction of the anionic form of the drug with protons in the intermembrane space of mitochondria to disrupt the potential across the inner mitochondrial membrane and thereby initiate apoptosis. Normal cells are not affected.
Electron transfer processes in the reactivity of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the ground and excited states.	The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), naproxen, sulindac and indomethacin, were shown to donate electrons to nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) when irradiated with UV light in deoxygenated aqueous buffer solution (pH 7.4, 30 degrees C). The reaction was monitored spectrophotometrically by the appearance of the diformazan reduction product from NBT. The electron transfer process facilitates the decomposition of the drugs. Naproxen in the presence of NBT is photodegraded principally to the alcohol (2-[1-hydroxyethyl]-6-methoxynaphthalene) at a rate approximately 20-fold faster than when irradiated alone in deoxygenated conditions. The photoproduct from naproxen also participates in the electron transfer to NBT but at a much slower rate than naproxen. Irradiation of sulindac or indomethacin in the presence of NBT caused the slow photoreduction of NBT to diformazan. In the absence of NBT, indomethacin and sulindac are essentially unreactive when irradiated in aqueous solution. The ability of a number of NSAID to act as electron donors in their ground state was studied by observing their oxidation by potassium peroxodisulfate in pH 7.0 phosphate buffer at 50 degrees C. The HPLC analysis of the drug remaining showed that the 2-arylpropionic acid NSAID (naproxen, ibuprofen, ketoprofen and suprofen) reacted at a rate equivalent to the thermal decomposition of peroxodisulfate. The major products were the same as detected in the photooxidation of these drugs, resulting from decarboxylation and oxygen addition but also included a dimeric compound. On the other hand, the NSAID that do not contain the propionic acid substituent all reacted more slowly with peroxodisulfate, enabling specific reaction rate constants to be evaluated.
