Postpartum cerebral angiopathy associated with the administration of sumatriptan and dihydroergotamine--a case report.	Cerebral angiopathy of the postpartum period is a rare entity, sometimes promoted by vasoconstrictives drug prescription. Its clinical presentation includes headaches, seizures and focal neurological deficits, which develop shortly after a normal pregnancy. The diagnosis is based on clinical findings and angiography, showing multiple narrowing of the intracranial cerebral arteries. This neurological feature is reversible and the clinical outcome is good. We report a case of benign cerebral angiopathy in a 20-year-old woman in the postpartum period, occurring after administration of sumatriptan and ergot derivates.
Migraine medication attributes important for patient compliance: concerns about side effects may delay treatment.	To determine the level of concern among migraineurs about migraine prescription medication tolerability and adverse effects and the impact of these concerns on their self-management of migraine.
Sumatriptan (5-HT1B/1D-agonist) causes a transient allodynia.	Unpleasant sensory symptoms are commonly reported in association with the use of 5-HT1B/1D-agonists, i.e. triptans. In particular, pain/pressure symptoms from the chest and neck have restricted the use of triptans in the acute treatment of migraine. The cause of these triptan induced side-effects is still unidentified. We have now tested the hypothesis that sumatriptan influences the perception of tactile and thermal stimuli in humans in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Two groups were tested; one consisted of 12 (mean age 41.2 years, 10 women) subjects with migraine and a history of cutaneous allodynia in association with sumatriptan treatment. Twelve healthy subjects (mean age 38.7 years, 10 women) without migraine served as control group. During pain- and medication-free intervals tactile directional sensibility, perception of dynamic touch (brush) and thermal sensory and pain thresholds were studied on the dorsal side of the left hand. Measurements were performed before, 20, and 40 min after injection of 6 mg sumatriptan or saline. Twenty minutes after injection, sumatriptan caused a significant placebo-subtracted increase in brush-evoked feeling of unpleasantness in both groups (P < 0.01), an increase in brush-evoked pain in migraineurs only (P = 0.021), a reduction of heat pain threshold in all participants pooled (P = 0.031), and a reduction of cold pain threshold in controls only (P = 0.013). At 40 min after injection, no differences remained significant. There were no changes in ratings of brush intensity, tactile directional sensibility or cold or warm sensation thresholds. Thus, sumatriptan may cause a short-lasting allodynia in response to light dynamic touch and a reduction of heat and cold pain thresholds. This could explain at least some of the temporary sensory side-effects of triptans and warrants consideration in the interpretation of studies on migraine-induced allodynia.
Correlation between lipophilicity and triptan outcomes.	It has been suggested that triptans achieving higher central nervous system (CNS) levels should have an advantage in efficacy, if central actions are important. Objective.-Our aim was to correlate the efficacy and tolerability results of triptans with their lipophilicity.
Triptans and the incidence of epithelial defects during laser in situ keratomileusis.	To investigate whether the incidence of epithelial defects during laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) was different in patients who were taking sumatriptan (Imitrex, Glaxo Smith Kline, Pittsburgh, Pa) for migraine headaches than in those who were not.
Two replicate randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of the time to onset of pain relief in the acute treatment of migraine with a fast-disintegrating/rapid-release formulation of sumatriptan tablets.	The gastric stasis that commonly accompanies migraine headache may impair absorption of conventional oral tablets in the stomach. A fast-disintegrating/rapid-release formulation of sumatriptan has been developed to enhance tablet disintegration and drug dispersion and potentially improve absorption.
Prevalence of migraine and response to sumatriptan in patients self-reporting tension/stress headache.	This study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of migraine and its responsiveness to migraine-specific therapy in patients with self-reported tension-type headache.
Sumatriptan provokes coronary artery spasm in patients with variant angina: possible involvement of serotonin 1B receptor.	Serotonin (5HT) can induce coronary artery spasm (CAS) in patients with variant angina (VA). We have previously reported that 5HT(1B) and 5HT(2A) receptors gene were expressed in human coronary arterial smooth muscle cells and that isolated coronary artery from a patient with VA showed the supersensitivity to sumatriptan (SMT), a 5HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist. The aim of the present study was to determine whether SMT can provoke CAS directly or indirectly through platelet aggregation in patients with VA.
Sumatriptan for the treatment of undifferentiated primary headaches in the ED.	In this study, we determine the effectiveness and adverse effects of sumatriptan when used in the emergency department (ED) as a first-line treatment for benign undifferentiated headaches, and determine if the International Headache Society (IHS) classification of migraine, probable migraine, or tension-type headache has any effect on the effectiveness of the treatment. We hypothesize that there is no difference in the effectiveness of pain relief or frequency and severity of adverse effects between patients with migraine, probable migraine, or tension-type headaches when treated with sumatriptan.
Efficacy of sumatriptan tablets in migraineurs self-described or physician-diagnosed as having sinus headache: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	Many patients and physicians interpret episodic headache in the presence or absence of nasal symptoms as "sinus' headache, while ignoring the possible diagnosis of migraine.
An update in the treatment of neurologic disorders during pregnancy--focus on migraines and seizures.	When drug therapy is necessary and cannot be avoided during a pregnancy, the decision of what drug therapy is best may be difficult for the health care provider because the vast majority of drugs are classified as Pregnancy Category C. This classification indicates that information regarding the risk to the fetus is unknown. For ethical reasons, pregnant women are not included in drug studies, so most decisions regarding the safety of a particular drug are based on animal studies, available cases reports, or are theoretical and are based on pharmacokinetic properties. Fortunately, with the development of Pregnancy Registries, more information has been collected, analyzed, and is available regarding the safety of drugs during pregnancy. These registries have expanded in recent years allowing better determination of fetal safety for triptans and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The information assists health care providers in selecting optimal therapy for women seeking pregnancy or those already pregnant. This review presents the most recent information for the treatment and prophylaxis of migraines and seizures during pregnancy.
Amplifying effect of sumatriptan on noradrenaline venoconstriction in migraine patients.	The venoconstrictive activity of sumatriptan and its interaction with noradrenaline (NA)- and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) venoconstriction was studied in vivo in the hand vein of migraineurs. Sumatriptan, injected at increasing doses into the vein, caused local venoconstriction after a 500 microgram dose, comparable to that induced by 0.5-1 micrograms of 5HT. This venoconstriction was completely inhibited by low doses of ketanserin (5 micrograms). Subcutaneous sumatriptan (6 mg) provoked a minor increase in vein tone, lasting less than 30 min. Non-venoconstrictive doses of sumatriptan (10-100 micrograms), injected in the hand vein, produced an amplification of NA-venoconstriction but not of 5HT-induced venoconstriction. A similar increased effect was displayed by subcutaneous sumatriptan (6 mg) for at least 1 h. Sumatriptan appears to cause peripheral venoconstriction only at high doses locally applied (in the hand vein), by acting on 5HT2 receptors. Clinical subcutaneous doses (6 mg) do not show significant venoconstrictive effects. The amplifying effect on NA venoconstriction, also caused by 5HT, ergotamine and dihydroergotamine in human cranial arteries, may be important in explaining the therapeutic action of sumatriptan in migraine attacks.
Is myofascial pain of the temporal muscles relieved by oral sumatriptan? A cross-over pilot study.	There is evidence that serotonin may be implicated in the pathophysiology of myofascial pain (MFP). Because of this, we used oral sumatriptan (Imitrex, Glaxo), a peripherally acting agonist of 5-HT1D receptors, in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled double crossover pilot study of 7 patients with episodic MFP of the temporalis muscles. The results showed that there was a significant reduction in pain intensity and increase in pain relief over time with both the active medication and the placebo, but no significant difference between treatments. All but 1 patient reported that they are not interested in retaking the same medication. These data suggest that oral sumatriptan may not be the drug of choice in the control of episodic MFP.
Interaction between sumatriptan and selective serotonin uptake inhibitors]	Migraine is common among patients who suffer from depression, and this category of patients often needs drug treatment for both diseases. A pharmacist consulted the Regional Drug Information Centre in the western part of Norway (RELIS 3) about the combined use of sumatriptan and fluoxetine, as the product information on sumatriptan warns of a possible interaction between these drugs. This possibility was evaluated by the Drug Information Centre, and it was concluded that the combination of sumatriptan and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor is not contraindicated. This conclusion was based on both theoretical and clinical considerations.
Ischemic colitis and sumatriptan use.	Sumatriptan succinate, a serotonin-1 (5-hydroxytryptamine-1) receptor agonist, is an antimigraine drug that is reported to act by selectively constricting intracranial arteries. Recently, vasopressor responses that are distinct from the cranial circulation have been demonstrated to occur in the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary circulations. Cases have been published of coronary vasospasm, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction occurring after sumatriptan use. We report on the development of 8 serious cases of ischemic colitis in patients with migraine treated with sumatriptan.
