Mechanisms of endotoxin tolerance in human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells.	Lipopolysaccharide (endotoxin) tolerance is well described in monocytes and macrophages, but is less well characterized in endothelial cells. Because intestinal microvascular endothelial cells exhibit a strong immune response to LPS challenge and play a critical regulatory role in gut inflammation, we sought to characterize the activation response of these cells to repeated LPS exposure. Primary cultures of human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells (HIMEC) were stimulated with LPS over 6-60 h and activation was assessed using U937 leukocyte adhesion, expression of E-selectin, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-6, IL-8, manganese superoxide dismutase, HLA-DR, and CD86. Effect of repeat LPS stimulation on HIMEC NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, generation of superoxide anion, and Toll-like receptor 4 expression was characterized. LPS pretreatment of HIMEC for 24-48 h significantly decreased leukocyte adhesion after subsequent LPS stimulation. LPS pretreatment inhibited expression of E-selectin, VCAM-1, IL-6, and CD86, while ICAM-1, IL-8, and HLA-DR were not altered. Manganese superoxide dismutase expression increased with repeated LPS stimulation, with a reduction in intracellular superoxide. NF-kappaB activation was transiently inhibited by LPS pretreatment for 6 h, but not at later time points. In contrast, p44/42 MAPK, p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation demonstrated inhibition by LPS pretreatment 24 or 48 h prior. Toll-like receptor 4 expression on HIMEC was not altered by LPS. HIMEC exhibit endotoxin tolerance after repeat LPS exposure in vitro, characterized by diminished activation and intracellular superoxide anion concentration, and reduced leukocyte adhesion. HIMEC possess specific mechanisms of immunoregulatory hyporesponsiveness to repeated LPS exposure.
A critical 'threshold' of beta 2-integrin engagement regulates augmentation of cytokine-mediated superoxide anion release.	1. Neutrophil adhesion regulates a number of processes involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Neutrophil destructive potential can be modulated by adhesion, allowing alteration of inflammatory cell behaviour while preserving antimicrobial defences. beta(2)-Integrin-mediated neutrophil adhesion to albumin-coated latex beads (ACLB) allows modulation of integrin clustering and ligation and analysis of the effects of adhesion on neutrophil responses. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) enhanced neutrophil binding of different diameter ACLB equally, by almost four-fold, and independently of bead size. Adhesion of neutrophils to ACLB caused a size-dependent generation and release of O(2)(-) and also potentiated TNF alpha-induced O(2)(-) release. 2. Binding of ACLB was not affected by disruption of cytoskeletal integrity with nocodazole or cytochalasin D or following blockade of tyrosine kinase activity. In contrast, tyrosine phosphorylation and an intact cytoskeleton were essential for adhesion- and cytokine-induced O(2)(-) release from neutrophils. Inhibition of adhesion- and cytokine-induced O(2)(-) release by 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazol[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2) indicated that a Src-family tyrosine kinase was the principal regulatory pathway mediating this response in neutrophils, a distal role for p38 MAPK was revealed by use of SB203580. 3. Tyrosine phosphorylation of c-Fgr, a Src-family tyrosine kinase, occurred following ACLB adhesion and exposure to TNF alpha, and was susceptible to inhibition by PP2. We suggest that activation of the key regulatory enzyme c-Fgr is achieved following ligation of a critical threshold of integrins following binding of large (>3 microM) ACLB.
Altered glycosylation of surfactant and brush border membrane of the small intestine in response to surgical manipulation.	Surgical stress can lead to bacterial translocation from the intestine into systemic circulation. Adherence of bacteria onto the glycoconjugates of the brush border membrane (BBM) and surfactant coat (SLP) of the mucosal cells is the first step in the translocation of luminal bacteria. Our earlier study showed that surgical manipulation of the intestine results in oxidative stress leading to structural and functional alterations in the mucosa. This study looks at the effect of surgical manipulation on the glycoconjugate alterations of SLP and BBM.
Systematic investigation of different steroid precursors with respect to their effect on superoxide anion production by human neutrophil granulocytes.	Free radicals are involved in several pathological processes in living organisms, for example in athero- and oncogenesis. Some steroids are known to be effective antioxidants, while others do not play any such role. The aim of our study was to examine the antioxidant capability of different metabolites in the synthesis of steroid hormones. As a model, we chose human neutrophils producing superoxide anion, which is the source of many other radicals. Neutrophils were separated from healthy volunteers. Isolated cells were incubated with varying concentrations of steroid compounds and stimulated with N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe. Superoxide anion production was determined by photometry. Neutrophils incubated with corticosterone and 18-hydroxy-deoxycorticosterone showed a significant reduction in superoxide production, whereas we found a significant enhancement in the presence of 11beta-hydroxyprogesterone. Furthermore, we observed a non-significant decreasing trend after incubation with cholesterol 3-sulphate and an increasing tendency using 11-hydroxyandrostenedione. We were also able to produce newer morphological and functional evidence of the role of myeloperoxidase enzyme in the steroidal antioxidant effect by electronic microscopy and use of sodium hypochlorite in our incubation model. Based on these results, we conclude that not only steroid end products but also their intermediate metabolites, most of which are also present in human plasma, partly influence free radical metabolism. Thus, this study provides further argument for the search for the molecular basis responsible for the antioxidant effect of steroid structures. This may lead to new opportunities for finding really efficient antioxidants, which might perhaps be used in a combined manner with other agents in the fight against certain life-threatening diseases.
Evaluation of the anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic effects of anthraquinones and anthracenes derivatives in human leucocytes.	A variety of anthracene- and anthraquinone-related derivatives, modified from three types of lead structures, including 9-acyloxy 1,5-dichloroanthracene (type I), 1,5-bisacyloxy-anthraquinones with O-linked substituents (type II) and 1,5-bisacyloxy-anthraquinones with S-linked substituents (type III), were synthesized and evaluated by an in-vitro bioassay for their anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic effects in human leucocytes. Among these derivatives, type I compounds displayed potent anti-inflammatory activity against phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced superoxide anion production, a bio-marker of inflammatory mediator production by neutrophils, with 50% inhibition (IC50) concentrations (microM) for compounds 1f, 1g, 1h and 1m being 13.8 +/- 3.0, 6.3 +/- 4.1, 33.2 +/- 1.3 and 33.9 +/- 5.7, respectively. Type II and type III derivatives (i. e., 1,5-bisacyloxy anthraquinone-related compounds) and the reference compound, emodin, exhibited relatively minor (20-40%) inhibitory effect against superoxide production by neutrophils. Furthermore, none of these compounds showed a significant cytotoxic effect in human neutrophils. In conclusion, these results suggest that compounds modified from 9-acyloxy 1,5-dichloroanthracence (type I) are more powerful than the other two types as anti-inflammatory drugs. This is the first demonstration that derivatives modified from anthracenes or anthraquinones possess anti-inflammatory activity with no significant cytotoxicity in human neutrophils.
Nitrosoglutathione promotes flap survival via suppression of reperfusion injury-induced superoxide and inducible nitric oxide synthase induction.	Evidence suggests that failure of flap reconstruction is related to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-mediated endothelial damage. Using a rat inferior epigastric artery flap as an I/R injury model, we investigated whether administration of nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), an exogenous nitric oxide (NO) donor, can scavenge superoxide and promote flap survival.
Effect of Boophone disticha on human neutrophils.	Boophone disticha (Amaryllidaceae) are mainly used in Southern Africa for inflammatory conditions. It is also known for its toxic effects. Because of the putative effects on components of the immune system and inflammatory response the effects of extracts of the bulb of Boophane disticha were investigated on ATP production in isolated human neutrophils. Furthermore, one possible mechanism of Boophone disticha's therapeutic properties might be its inhibition of superoxide release from neutrophils. The effect of the extracts on superoxide production of human neutrophils was also investigated. Aqueous and ethanol extracts of the outer and inner scales of the bulb of Boophone disticha was investigated for their effect on human neutrophils. It was decided to test the dry other scales separately from the fleshy inner scales as the parts are also used separately by traditional healers for different applications. ATP production was significantly decreased by ethanol extracts of the inner scales of the bulb. Superoxide production was significantly inhibited by aqueous extracts of the inner and outer scales of the bulb.
Mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species and vascular MAP kinases: comparison of angiotensin II and diazoxide.	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are key mediators in signal transduction of angiotensin II (Ang II). However, roles of vascular mitochondria, a major intracellular ROS source, in response to Ang II stimuli have not been elucidated. This study aimed to examine the involvement of mitochondria-derived ROS in the signaling pathway and the vasoconstrictor mechanism of Ang II. Using 5-hydroxydecanoate (5-HD; a specific inhibitor of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium [mitoK(ATP)] channels) and tempol (a superoxide dismutase mimetic), the effects of Ang II and diazoxide (a mitoK(ATP) channel opener) were compared on redox-sensitive mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation in rat vascular smooth muscle cells (RVSMCs) in vitro and in rat aorta in vivo. Stimulation of RVSMCs by Ang II or diazoxide increased phosphorylated MAP kinases (ERK1/2, p38, and JNK), as well as superoxide production, which were then suppressed by 5-HD pretreatment in a dose-dependent manner, except for ERK1/2 activation by Ang II. The same events were reproduced in rat aorta in vivo. Ang II-like diazoxide depolarized the mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(M)) of RVSMCs determined by JC-1 fluorescence, which was inhibited by 5-HD. 5-HD did not modulate Ang II-induced calcium mobilization in RVSMCs and did not affect on the vasoconstrictor effect in either acute or chronic phases of Ang II-induced hypertension. These results reveal that Ang II stimulates mitochondrial ROS production through the opening of mitoK(ATP) channels in the vasculature-like diazoxide, leading to reduction of DeltaPsi(M) and redox-sensitive activation of MAP kinase; however, generated ROS from mitochondria do not contribute to Ang II-induced vasoconstriction.
Lysophosphatidylcholine modulates neutrophil oxidant production through elevation of cyclic AMP.	Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) is an oxidized phospholipid present in micromolar concentrations in blood and inflamed tissues. The effects of LPC on neutrophil functions remain incompletely understood, because conflicting reports exist for its stimulatory and inhibitory roles. We report in this study that LPC inhibits superoxide generation in fMLP- and PMA-stimulated neutrophils without affecting fMLP-induced Ca(2+) mobilization and cell viability. This effect was observed with LPC dissolved in ethanol, but not with LPC stock solutions prepared in water or in BSA-containing aqueous solution with sonication. Under the same experimental conditions, platelet-activating factor primed neutrophils for superoxide generation. The inhibitory effect of LPC was observed within 30 s after its application and was maximal at LPC concentrations between 0.1 and 1 muM. Inhibition of superoxide generation was accompanied by a 2.5-fold increase in the intracellular cAMP concentration. In addition, LPC reduced fMLP-stimulated phosphorylation of ERK and Akt and membrane translocation of p67(phox) and p47(phox). The protein kinase A inhibitors H-89 and adenosine 3'5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate Rp-isomer (Rp-cAMP) partially restored superoxide production in LPC-treated neutrophils, indicating involvement of protein kinase A in LPC-mediated inhibition. Using an ex vivo mouse lung perfusion model that measures lung weight change and capillary filtration coefficient, we found that LPC prevented lung vascular injury mediated by fMLP-activated neutrophils. Taken together, these results suggest that LPC-induced elevation of intracellular cAMP is partially responsible for its inhibition of neutrophil NADPH oxidase activation. A similar mechanism of inhibition may be used for the control of neutrophil-mediated tissue injury.
Candesartan reduces superoxide production after global cerebral ischemia.	Excessive superoxide production after cerebral ischemia is known to mediate neuronal injury. Angiotensin II type 1 receptor activation results in production of superoxide, but whether angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade prevents production of superoxide and subsequent neuronal injury after ischemia remains unclear. Normotensive rats received the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker, candesartan or only vehicle before induction of global cerebral ischemia. Approximately 30% of the hippocampal CA1 neurons survived in candesartan-treated animals, whereas only 2% of neurons survived in vehicle-treated animals. Superoxide production was significantly less in these vulnerable neurons in candesartan-treated animals than in vehicle-treated animals. Angiotensin II type 1 receptor may have an essential role in superoxide production and subsequent injury in vulnerable neurons after global cerebral ischemia.
Dehydroascorbic acid normalizes several markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in acute hyperglycemic focal cerebral ischemia in the rat.	We investigated the effect of dehydroascorbic acid (DHA), the oxidized form of vitamin C which is a superoxide scavenger, on manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), copper-zinc SOD (CuZnSOD), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) expression in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia under normo- and hyperglycemic conditions. Edema formation was also assessed. MnSOD, CuZnSOD, COX-2 and IL-1beta mRNA and protein expression were studied 3 h post-ischemia. No changes were observed in MnSOD and CuZnSOD mRNA expression among the groups. COX-2 and IL-1beta mRNA expression were upregulated by ischemia but were not influenced by the glycemic state. At the protein level, hyperglycemic cerebral ischemia increased MnSOD and CuZnSOD [Bémeur, C., Ste-Marie, L., Desjardins, P., Butterworth, R.F., Vachon, L., Montgomery, J., Hazell, A.S., 2004a. Expression of superoxide dismutase in hyperglycemic focal cerebral ischemia in the rat. Neurochem. Int. 45, 1167-1174] and IL-1beta expression compared to normoglycemic ischemia. COX-2 protein expression was also significantly higher following hyperglycemic ischemia compared to hyperglycemic shams. DHA administration did not change the pattern of COX-2 or IL-1beta mRNA expression, but normalized the increased protein expression following hyperglycemic ischemia. DHA administration also normalized MnSOD and CuZnSOD protein expression to the levels observed in normoglycemic ischemic animals. Edema formation was significantly reduced by DHA administration in hyperglycemic ischemic animals. The DHA-induced post-transcriptional normalization of MnSOD, CuZnSOD, COX-2 and IL-1beta levels and the decreased edema formation suggest that hyperglycemia accelerates superoxide formation and the inflammatory response, thus contributing to early damage in hyperglycemic stroke and strategies to scavenge superoxide should be an important therapeutic avenue.
Inhibition of superoxide generation and associated nitrosative damage is involved in metallothionein prevention of diabetic cardiomyopathy.	The mechanisms of metallothionein prevention of diabetic cardiomyopathy are largely unknown. The present study was performed to test whether inhibition of nitrosative damage is involved in metallothionein prevention of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Cardiac-specific metallothionein-overexpressing transgenic (MT-TG) mice and wild-type littermate controls were treated with streptozotocin (STZ) by a single intraperitoneal injection, and both developed diabetes. However, the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy, revealed by histopathological and ultrastructural examination, serum creatine phosphokinase, and cardiac hemodynamic analysis, was significantly observed only in the wild-type, but not in MT-TG, diabetic mice 2 weeks and 6 months after STZ treatment. Formations of superoxide and 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT), a marker for peroxynitrite-induced protein damage, were detected only in the heart of wild-type diabetic mice. Furthermore, primary cultures of cardiomyocytes from wild-type and MT-TG mice were exposed to lipopolysaccharide/tumor necrosis factor-alpha for generating intracellular peroxynitrite. Increases in 3-NT formation and cytotoxicity were observed in wild-type, but not in MT-TG, cardiomyocytes. Either urate, a peroxynitrite-specific scavenger, or Mn(111) tetrakis 1-methyl 4-pyridyl porphyrin pentachloride (MnTMPyP), a superoxide dismutase mimic, significantly inhibited the formation of 3-NT along with a significant prevention of cytotoxicity. These results thus suggest that metallothionein prevention of diabetic cardiomyopathy is mediated, at least in part, by suppression of superoxide generation and associated nitrosative damage.
A novel conformationally restricted protein kinase C inhibitor, Ro 31-8425, inhibits human neutrophil superoxide generation by soluble, particulate and post-receptor stimuli.	A novel, bis-indolylmaleimide, Ro 31-8425, bearing a conformationally restricted side chain, inhibits protein kinase C isolated from rat brain and human neutrophils with a high degree of selectivity over cAMP-dependent kinase and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase. It also inhibits phorbol ester-induced intracellular events known to be mediated by protein kinase C (p47 phosphorylation in intact platelets, CD3 and CD4 down-regulation in T-cells). Ro 31-8425 inhibited superoxide generation in human neutrophils activated by both receptor stimuli (formyl-methionyl-leucylphenylalanine, opsonized zymosan, IgG and heat aggregated IgG) and post-receptor stimuli (1,2-dioctanoylglycerol and fluoride). The compound also blocked antigen driven, but not IL-2 induced, T-cell proliferation. These results support a central role for protein kinase C in the activation of the respiratory burst and antigen-driven T-cell proliferation.
SOD1 overexpression alters ROS production and reduces neurotoxic inflammatory signaling in microglial cells.	Activation of the oxidative burst is one of the earliest biochemical events in microglial activation, but it is not understood yet how free radicals participate in inflammatory signaling. To determine the role that specific reactive oxygen species play in microglial activation, the levels of SOD1 were manipulated in N9 murine microglia. Stable overexpression of SOD1 caused significant decreases in superoxide and nitric oxide production, with concurrent increases in hydrogen peroxide following LPS. However, LPS-induced activation of NFkappaB, and release of TNFalpha and IL-6 were significantly attenuated in SOD1 overexpressing cells, as was the ability of microglia to induce toxicity in cultured neurons. Conversely, acute inhibition of SOD1 with disulfiram was associated with increased nitric oxide and cytokine release, and increased neurotoxicity. Together, these data suggest that superoxide radicals in microglia play important roles in directing redox-sensitive inflammatory signaling and initiating neurotoxic inflammation.
Mycophenolate acid inhibits endothelial NAD(P)H oxidase activity and superoxide formation by a Rac1-dependent mechanism.	Endothelial dysfunction precedes hypertension and atherosclerosis and predicts cardiac allograft vasculopathy and death in heart transplant recipients. Endothelial overproduction of reactive oxygen species, such as superoxide anions produced by NAD(P)H oxidase, induces endothelial dysfunction. Because immunosuppressive drugs have been associated with increased reactive oxygen species production and endothelial dysfunction, we sought to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Reactive oxygen species, release of superoxide anions, and NAD(P)H oxidase activity were studied in human umbilical vein endothelial cells and in polymorphonuclear neutrophils. Gp91ds-tat was used to specifically block NAD(P)H oxidase. Transcriptional activation of different subunits of NAD(P)H oxidase was assessed by real-time RT-PCR. Rac1 subunit translocation and activation were studied by membrane fractionation and pull-down assays. Calcineurin inhibitors significantly increased endothelial superoxide anions production because of NAD(P)H oxidase, whereas mycophenolate acid (MPA) blocked it. MPA also attenuated the respiratory burst induced by neutrophil NAD(P)H oxidase. Because transcriptional activation of NAD(P)H oxidase was not affected, but addition of guanosine restored endothelial superoxide anions formation after MPA treatment, we speculate that the inhibitory effect of MPA was mediated by depletion of cellular guanosine triphosphate content. This prevented activation of Rac1 and, thus, of endothelial NAD(P)H oxidase. Because all heart transplant recipients are at risk for cardiac allograft vasculopathy development, these differential effects of immunosuppressants on endothelial oxidative stress should be considered in the choice of immunosuppressive drugs.
Vitamin E reduces glomerulosclerosis, restores renal neuronal NOS, and suppresses oxidative stress in the 5/6 nephrectomized rat.	Chronic kidney disease is accompanied by nitric oxide (NO) deficiency and oxidative stress, which contribute to progression. We investigated whether the antioxidant vitamin E could preserve renal function and NO bioavailability and reduce oxidative stress in the 5/6th nephrectomy (NX) rat model. We studied the following three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats: sham (n = 6), 5/6 NX control (n = 6), and 5/6 NX treated with vitamin E (5,000 IU/kg chow; n = 5). The 5/6 NX group showed increased severity of glomerulosclerosis vs. sham, and this was ameliorated by vitamin E therapy. Both 5/6 NX groups showed similar elevations in plasma creatinine and proteinuria and decreased 24-h creatinine clearance compared with sham. There was increased NADPH-dependent superoxide production in 5/6 NX rats vs. sham that was prevented by vitamin E. Total NO production was similarly reduced in both 5/6 NX groups. There was unchanged abundance of endothelial nitric oxide synthesis (NOS) in renal cortex and medulla and neuronal (n) NOS in medulla. However, in kidney cortex, 5/6 NX rats had lower nNOS abundance than sham, which was restored by vitamin E. An increased plasma asymmetric dimethylarginine occurred with 5/6 NX associated with decreased renal dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase activity and increased type 1 protein arginine methyltransferase expression.
Synthesis and pharmacochemical study of new Cu(II) complexes with thiophen-2-yl saturated and alpha,beta-unsaturated substituted carboxylic acids.	Copper complexes with thiophen-2-yl saturated and alpha,beta-unsaturated carboxylic acids as ligands were prepared, characterized and pharmacochemically studied. The available evidence supports a dimeric structure for the complexes of the general formula [Cu2(L)4(MeOH)2] where L are the anions of thiophene 2-carboxylic acid (HL1), 2-(thiophen-2-yl)-acetic acid (HL2), 3-thiophen-2-yl-acrylic acid (HL3), 2-phenyl-3-thiophen-2-yl-acrylic acid (HL4) respectively. The crystal structure of [Cu2(L1)4(MeOH)2] (2) was determined while preliminary X-ray analysis of the copper complex with L4 isolated from MeOH/DMSO solution proved to contain three crystallographically independent dimers of the formula [Cu2(L4)4(MeOH)(dmso)][Cu2(L4)4(MeOH)2][Cu2(L4)4(dmso)2].8MeOH (9). Since lipophilicity is a significant physicochemical property determining distribution, bioavailability, metabolic activity and elimination, we tried to measure experimentally their lipophilicity from RPTLC method. The copper complexes and the ligands (thiophen-2-yl saturated and alpha,beta-unsaturated carboxylic acids) were tested in vitro on: (a) soybean lipoxygenase inhibition, (b) interaction with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) stable free radical, (c) the HO* mediated oxidation of DMSO, (d) inhibition of lipid peroxidation, (e) scavenging of superoxide anion radicals and in vivo for the inhibition of carrageenin-induced rat paw edema. The compounds have shown important antioxidant activity, significant anti-inflammatory activity and potent inhibition of soybean lipoxygenase as a result of their physichochemical features. Complex [Cu2(L1)4(MeOH)2] (2) presents the higher in vivo activity (77.4%) followed by complex [Cu2(L2)4(MeOH)2] (4) (51%). Both complexes are more potent anti-inflammatory agents compared to their respective ligands. Moreover we have performed in vitro studies upon their effect on dsDNA, using adsorptive transfer stripping voltammetry and a dsDNA modified carbon paste electrode. Our conclusions were mainly based upon the effect of the studied compounds on the oxidation signal of guanine and adenine. From the given data it seems that complexes show similarities in their behaviour.
Quercetin and isorhamnetin prevent endothelial dysfunction, superoxide production, and overexpression of p47phox induced by angiotensin II in rat aorta.	The dietary flavonoid quercetin reduces blood pressure and improves endothelial function in several rat models of hypertension. We analyzed the effects of quercetin and its methylated metabolite isorhamnetin on the aortic endothelial dysfunction induced by incubation with angiotensin II (AngII) in vitro for 6 h. AngII diminished the relaxant responses to acetylcholine in phenylephrine-contracted aorta. Coincubation with quercetin or isorhamnetin, or addition of superoxide (O(2)(-)) dismutase or apocynin to the assay medium, prevented these inhibitory effects. At 6 h, AngII induced a marked increase in O(2)(-) production as measured by dihydroethidium fluorescence, which was prevented by quercetin and isorhamnetin. AngII also increased the expression of p47(phox), a regulatory subunit of the membrane NADPH oxidase. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that overexpression of p47(phox) occurred mainly in the medial layer. p47(phox) overexpression was also prevented by quercetin and isorhamnetin. Taken together, these results show for the first time, to our knowledge, that quercetin and isorhamnetin prevent AngII-induced endothelial dysfunction by inhibiting the overexpression of p47(phox) and the subsequent increased O(2)(-) production, resulting in increased nitric oxide bioavailability.
Effectiveness of combined treatment with superoxide dismutase and Reamberin during skin ischemia.	Experimental skin ischemia in rats was induced by suturing a skin fold on the back with a silk thread. Combined pretreatment with superoxide dismutase (intraperitoneally) and Reamberin (intravenously) in doses of 0.01 and 6.25 mg/kg (by succinate concentration), respectively, produced a strong protective effect on the skin. The index of cytolysis decreased by 39%. The more pronounced antinecrotic effect of combined treatment with superoxide dismutase and Reamberin compared to the effect of Reamberin alone was related to a sharp increase in the reserve capacity of the antioxidant system. After combined therapy, activity of antioxidant defense enzymes not only increased, but even exceeded the normal level. The increase in activity of endogenous superoxide dismutase under the influence of combined therapy was accompanied by suppression of superoxide anion production.
Novel inhibitors of superoxide anion generation, OPC-15160 and OPC-15161. Taxonomy, fermentation, isolation, physico-chemical properties, biological characteristics and structure determination.	A new inhibitor of superoxide anion generation by guinea pig macrophages, OPC-15160, was isolated from the culture broth of fungus Thielavia minor OFR-1561, and a more potent inhibitor, OPC-15161, was obtained as a major degradation product of OPC-15160. OPC-15161 was five times more active than the natural inhibitor and its IC50 value was 2.8 x 10(-5) M. The structure of OPC-15161 was elucidated by X-ray analysis to be 6-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-5-methoxy-3- (2-methylpropyl)-2-(1H)-pyrazinone, 4-oxide and had a novel and highly functionalized pyrazine skeleton.
Cysteine-iron promotes arginase activity by driving the Fenton reaction.	Impairment of nitric oxide bioavailability secondary to increased arginase activity and overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is thought to be a major cause of vascular complications in sickle cell disease (SCD). However, the role of ROS in the induction of arginase activity is unknown. This study investigated whether the mechanism of arginase activation involves the ROS produced during oxidative stress. Our study reveals that cysteine-iron dose-dependently stimulated arginase activity with a corresponding increase in (.)OH radical formation. The ()OH radicals produced were significantly inhibited by salicylic acid derivatives and superoxide dismutase. Surprisingly, the inhibition of (.)OH radicals parallels the inhibition of arginase activity, thus suggesting the role of cysteine-iron in the stimulation of arginase via the Fenton reaction. This is the first evidence demonstrating the participation of (.)OH radicals in the stimulation of arginase activity, and thus provides novel avenues for therapeutic modalities in hemoglobinopathies and other inflammation-mediated diseases.
Enhanced angiotensin II-mediated central sympathoexcitation in streptozotocin-induced diabetes: role of superoxide anion.	Studies have shown that the superoxide mechanism is involved in angiotensin II (ANG II) signaling in the central nervous system. We hypothesized that ANG II activates sympathetic outflow by stimulation of superoxide anion in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. In α-chloralose- and urethane-anesthetized rats, microinjection of ANG II into the PVN (50, 100, and 200 pmol) produced dose-dependent increases in renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), arterial pressure (AP), and heart rate (HR) in control and STZ-induced diabetic rats. There was a potentiation of the increase in RSNA (35.0 ± 5.0 vs. 23.0 ± 4.3%, P < 0.05), AP, and HR due to ANG II type I (AT(1)) receptor activation in diabetic rats compared with control rats. Blocking endogenous AT(1) receptors within the PVN with AT(1) receptor antagonist losartan produced significantly greater decreases in RSNA, AP, and HR in diabetic rats compared with control rats. Concomitantly, there were significant increases in mRNA and protein expression of AT(1) receptor with increased superoxide levels and expression of NAD(P)H oxidase subunits p22(phox), p47(phox), and p67(phox) in the PVN of rats with diabetes. Pretreatment with losartan (10 mg·kg(-1)·day(-1) in drinking water for 3 wk) significantly reduced protein expression of NAD(P)H oxidase subunits (p22(phox) and p47(phox)) in the PVN of diabetic rats. Pretreatment with adenoviral vector-mediated overexpression of human cytoplasmic superoxide dismutase (AdCuZnSOD) within the PVN attenuated the increased central responses to ANG II in diabetes (RSNA: 20.4 ± 0.7 vs. 27.7 ± 2.1%, n = 6, P < 0.05). These data support the concept that superoxide anion contributes to an enhanced ANG II-mediated signaling in the PVN involved with the exaggerated sympathoexcitation in diabetes.
Inhibition by purine nucleotides of the release of reactive oxygen species from muscle mitochondria: indication for a function of uncoupling proteins as superoxide anion transporters.	Release of reactive oxygen species (ROS), measured as the sum of hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) and superoxide anion radical (O₂·⁻), from respiring rat heart and skeletal muscle mitochondria was significantly decreased by millimolar concentrations of GTP or GDP. Attempts to differentiate between the two forms of ROS showed that the release of O₂·⁻ rather than that of H₂O₂ was affected. Meanwhile, intramitochondrial ROS accumulation, measured by inactivation of aconitase, increased. These results suggest that guanine nucleotides inhibit the release of O₂·⁻ from mitochondria. As these nucleotides are known inhibitors of uncoupling proteins (UCPs), it is proposed that UCPs may function as carriers of O₂·⁻, thus enabling its removal from the matrix compartment.
Bioactivities of kernel extracts of 18 strains of maize (Zea mays).	Aqueous and ethanolic extracts of maize kernels from 18 varieties/strains were prepared for the evaluation of inhibitory activities toward α-glucosidase and scavenging activities toward nitric oxide (NO•) and superoxide (•O(2)(-)). All ethanolic extracts of maize strains tested inhibited yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) α-glucosidase with the highest potency (49% to 54%) found for 2 purple and a yellow strains. However, inhibitory effects of maize extracts on rat intestinal α-glucosidase were as a whole about 10% as effective as with the yeast enzyme. Maize extracts were capable of scavenging NO• at the level of 0.25 mg/mL to extents ranging from 24% to 50% and 26% to 57%, respectively, for aqueous and ethanolic extracts. All tested aqueous extracts were also capable of scavenging •O(2)(-), with efficacies ranging from 8% to 38%, at the level of 1.5 mg/mL, whereas almost none of the ethanolic extracts scavenged •O(2)(-), except for one purple strain (approximately 10% effective). The effectiveness in the enzyme inhibition and antioxidant assays did not correlate with total phenolic and/or anthocyanin levels, nor with the nature of pigmentation among the maize strains evaluated. Practical Application: A diversity of pigmented maize strains was evaluated for biological activities related to mitigating oxidative stress and slowing down glucose absorption from the diet. Certain strains tended to be more abundant in these biological activities and have potential to be used in dietary regimes that are designed to promote human health.
Sustained activation of AMPK ameliorates age-associated vascular endothelial dysfunction via a nitric oxide-independent mechanism.	Exercise restores endothelium-dependent dilation (EDD) in old mice by reducing oxidative stress and increasing nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Adenosine monophosphate protein kinase (AMPK) activation mimics some effects of exercise. Old (28-30 months) B6D2F1 mice had reduced arterial AMPK expression and superoxide-mediated suppression of EDD vs. young (3-6 months) controls. Pharmacological activation of AMPK by aminoimidazole carboxamide ribonucleotide (AICAR) for 2 weeks increased arterial AMPK and reversed this superoxide-induced impairment of EDD. The improvement in EDD was independent of NO or prostaglandin signaling, suggesting enhanced endothelium-dependent hyperpolarizing factor-related dilation. AMPK activation may represent a novel therapy for treating age-associated vascular dysfunction.
Estrogen-dependent inhibition of dextrose-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and superoxide generation in endothelial cells.	Increased oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) have been implicated in atherosclerosis. Estrogens have potent antioxidant activity but their effects on ER stress have not been well studied. Therefore, we studied the effects of estradiol and related sex steroids on dextrose-induced ER stress and superoxide (SO) generation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Oxidative stress was measured using hydroethidine fluorescence and MCLA chemiluminescence. ER stress was measured with an ER stress-sensitive secreted alkaline phosphatase (ES-TRAP) assay and by Western blot analysis of the expression of GRP78, JNK1, and phosphorylated JNK1, markers for ER stress. A supraphysiological dextrose concentration (27.5mM) increased ER stress and SO generation compared to treatment with a physiological concentration (5.5mM) of dextrose. In the presence of estradiol or testosterone (T), ER stress and SO generation were significantly reduced. In contrast to T-treated cells, dihydrotestosterone and 5-methyltestosterone were ineffective at alleviating ER stress or SO generation. When HUVECs were treated with T and the aromatase inhibitor 4-hydroxy-4-androstene-3,17-dione, T was no longer effective at suppressing ER stress or inhibiting SO generation. Changes in GRP78 expression and JNK activity in HUVECs support the results obtained in the ES-TRAP assay. These results indicate that dextrose-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and superoxide generation are reversed by estradiol and testosterone; however, the latter requires aromatase-dependent conversion to estradiol.
Ebselen and congeners inhibit NADPH oxidase 2-dependent superoxide generation by interrupting the binding of regulatory subunits.	NADPH oxidases (Nox) are a primary source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which function in normal physiology and, when overproduced, in pathophysiology. Recent studies using mice deficient in Nox2 identify this isoform as a novel target against Nox2-implicated inflammatory diseases. Nox2 activation depends on the binding of the proline-rich domain of its heterodimeric partner p22phox to p47phox. A high-throughput screen that monitored this interaction via fluorescence polarization identified ebselen and several of its analogs as inhibitors. Medicinal chemistry was performed to explore structure-activity relationships and to optimize potency. Ebselen and analogs potently inhibited Nox1 and Nox2 activity but were less effective against other isoforms. Ebselen also blocked translocation of p47phox to neutrophil membranes. Thus, ebselen and its analogs represent a class of compounds that inhibit ROS generation by interrupting the assembly of Nox2-activating regulatory subunits.
Chemical composition and antioxidant activities of  three polysaccharide fractions from pine cones.	The traditional method of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for monosaccharide component analysis with pretreatment of acetylation is described with slight modifications and verified in detail in this paper. It was then successfully applied to the quantitative analysis of component monosaccharides in polysaccharides extracted  from the pine cones. The results demonstrated that the three pine cone polysaccharides  all consisted of ribose, rhamnose, arabinose, xylose, mannose, glucose and galactose in different molar ratios. According to the recovery experiment, the described method was proved accurate and practical for the analysis of pine cone polysaccharides, meeting the need in the field of chemical analysis of Pinus plants. Furthermore; the chemical characteristics, such as neutral sugar, uronic acids, amino acids, molecular weights, and antioxidant activities of the polysaccharides were investigated by chemical and instrumental methods. The results showed that the chemical compositions of the polysaccharides differed from  each other, especially in the content of neutral sugar and uronic acid. In the antioxidant assays, the polysaccharide fractions exhibited effective scavenging activities on ABTS radical and hydroxyl radical, with their antioxidant capabilities decreasing in the order of PKP > PAP > PSP. Therefore, although the polysaccharide fractions had little effect on superoxide radical scavenging, they still have potential to be developed as natural antioxidant agents in functional foods or medicine.
Beneficial effect of sesame oil on heavy metal toxicity.	Heavy metals become toxic when they are not metabolized by the body and accumulate in the soft tissue. Chelation therapy is mainly for the management of heavy metal-induced toxicity; however, it usually causes adverse effects or completely blocks the vital function of the particular metal chelated. Much attention has been paid to the development of chelating agents from natural sources to counteract lead- and iron-induced hepatic and renal damage. Sesame oil (a natural edible oil) and sesamol (an active antioxidant) are potently beneficial for treating lead- and iron-induced hepatic and renal toxicity and have no adverse effects. Sesame oil and sesamol significantly inhibit iron-induced lipid peroxidation by inhibiting the xanthine oxidase, nitric oxide, superoxide anion, and hydroxyl radical generation. In addition, sesame oil is a potent inhibitor of proinflammatory mediators, and it attenuates lead-induced hepatic damage by inhibiting nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interleukin-1β levels. Because metal chelating therapy is associated with adverse effects, treating heavy metal toxicity in addition with sesame oil and sesamol may be better alternatives. This review deals with the possible use and beneficial effects of sesame oil and sesamol during heavy metal toxicity treatment. 
Protective effect of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid isolated from Cladophora wrightiana Harvey against ultraviolet B radiation-induced cell damage in human HaCaT keratinocytes.	The aim of the present study was to elucidate the protective properties of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) isolated from Cladophora wrightiana Harvey (a green alga) against ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced damage to human HaCaT keratinocytes. DBA exhibited scavenging actions against the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical, the superoxide anion, and the hydroxyl radical. Furthermore, DBA decreased the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species generated by hydrogen peroxide or UVB treatment of the cells. DBA also decreased the UVB-augmented levels of phospho-histone H2A.X and the extent of comet tail formation, which are both indications of DNA damage. In addition, the compound safeguarded keratinocytes from UVB-induced injury by reversing the production of apoptotic bodies, overturning the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential, increasing the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein, B-cell lymphoma 2, and decreasing the expression of the pro-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-2-associated X and cleaved caspase-3. Taken together, these results demonstrate that DBA isolated from a green alga protects human keratinocytes against UVB-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis. 
In vitro antioxidant activities, free radical scavenging capacity, and tyrosinase inhibitory of flavonoid compounds and ferulic acid from Spiranthes sinensis (Pers.) Ames.	In this study, ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) and other methods of extracting flavonoid compounds and ferulic acid (FA) from S. sinensis were investigated. Five different extraction methods, including water extraction (W), water extraction using UAE (W+U), 75% ethanol extraction (E), 75% ethanol extraction using UAE (E+U), and supercritical CO2 extraction (SFE) were applied in the extraction of bioactive compounds (flavonoids and ferulic acid) in order to compare their efficiency. The highest yield of flavonoids (4.28 mg/g) and ferulic acid (4.13 mg/g) content was detected in the E+U extract. Furthermore, S. sinensis extracts obtained by E+U show high antioxidant activity, and IC50 values of 0.47 mg/mL for DPPH radicals and 0.205 mg/mL for metal chelating activity. The total antioxidant assay shows superoxide radical scavenging capacity and in vitro mushroom tyrosinase inhibition in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that E+U can be used for extraction of bioactive compounds from S. sinensis. 
Possible role of H2O2-mediated complement activation and cytokines-mediated fibroblasts superoxide generation on skin inflammation.	The degree of complement activation produced by hydrogen peroxide was estimated by the inhibition of serum homolytic activity (% IHA). Sera from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and psoriasis vulgaris were resistant to hydrogen-peroxide-mediated complement activation. %IHA negatively correlated with ceruloplasmin level or catalase activity in systemic lupus erythematosus sera, but did not correlate with transferrin level. The addition of free metal ions, FeCl2 or CuCl2, promoted hydrogen-peroxide-mediated complement activation. These results suggest that hydroxyl radical is involved in complement activation and that the factors responsible for the insensitivity of pathological sera to H2O2 are catalase and ceruloplasmin in the sera. Human skin fibroblasts generate superoxide and tumor necrosis factor enhanced it, but interleukin-1 beta inhibited it. Normal serum cultured with fibroblasts for 24 h showed complement activation via catalase-inhibitable process, suggesting that hydrogen peroxide has an important role in fibroblast-mediated complement activation. It is speculated that fibroblasts and complement activation by oxygen radicals have an important role in inflammation and subsequent tissue damage at the site of skin lesion.
In vivo activation of peripheral blood polymorphonuclear neutrophils by gamma interferon results in enhanced fungal killing.	The effect of in vivo administration of murine recombinant gamma interferon (IFN) on the fungicidal activity of murine peripheral blood polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PB-PMNs) was studied. Mice were injected intramuscularly with 250, 2,500, 25,000 or 250,000 U of IFN 5 h before collection of peripheral blood. Purified PB-PMNs were cocultured in vitro with Blastomyces dermatitidis yeast cells for 2 h. PB-PMNs from untreated mice killed 44.5 +/- 12.5% of the fungal inoculum, whereas PB-PMNs from mice treated with 25,000 or 250,000 U of IFN showed significantly enhanced in vitro killing (68.0 +/- 9.4% [P less than 0.005] and 72.3 +/- 1.1% [P less than 0.001], respectively). Treatment with 250 or 2,500 U of IFN or 25,000 U of heated (100 degrees C, 15 min) IFN had no effect. The IFN-induced activation of PB-PMNs was transitory. Significant enhancement of PB-PMN killing activity occurred 1, 2, or 5 h after in vivo IFN administration, but no enhancement was observed 16 or 24 h after IFN treatment. Enhanced fungicidal activity by PB-PMNs from mice treated for 5 h with 25,000 U of IFN correlated with an increased release of superoxide anion (O2-) in vitro after stimulation of PB-PMNs with phorbol ester; normal PB-PMNs and IFN-activated PB-PMNs, respectively, produced 2.2 +/- 2.5 and 23.5 +/- 4.8 nmol of O2- per 10(6) PB-PMNs per 30 min (P less than 0.005). The exogenous addition of compounds that antagonize or inhibit the formation of oxygen radicals (superoxide dismutase, catalase, dimethyl sulfoxide, or sodium azide) significantly inhibited fungal killing by both normal and IFN-activated PB-PMNs. In addition to the enhanced microbicidal activity and superoxide generation demonstrated in vitro with constant cell numbers, there was a transient leukocytosis (particularly neutrophilia) in peripheral blood at doses of IFN and at times after IFN administration where enhanced activity was also demonstrated. In summary, our results indicate that PB-PMNs can be activated in vivo for enhanced killing of a fungal target. The enhanced killing capacity of IFN-activated PB-PMNs is due at least in part to the enhancement of oxidative killing mechanisms.
Single-strand DNA breaks in rodent and human cells produced by superoxide anion or its reduction products.	Chinese hamster ovary cells and human P3 teratocarcinoma cells were exposed to superoxide anion (O2-) generated by the addition of potassium superoxide (KO2). DNA from the cells was examined by alkaline elution techniques for the production of single-strand breaks, as well as for the production of double-strand breaks and DNA-protein cross-links. It was demonstrated that KO2 produced only single-strand breaks in DNA in both cell lines, in a dose-dependent manner. The number of breaks was reduced by the prior addition of a metal chelator, indicating that some of the breaks may have been caused by the metal-catalyzed (Fenton reaction) reduction products, hydrogen peroxide or hydroxyl radical Catalase almost completely inhibited break induction by O2-, evidence for a role of hydrogen peroxide. The results of this study indicate that O2- and its reduction products can damage intracellular mammalian DNA.
Ceruloplasmin: an acute phase reactant that scavenges oxygen-derived free radicals.	Superoxide anion radicals have been implicated recently as mediators of inflammation and tissue injury. Protection from superoxide anion radicals is provided primarily by a copper-containing, intracellular enzyme (superoxide dismutase) (SOD) that catalyzes the dismutation of superoxide to hydrogen peroxide and oxygen. We have found that the action of cytoplasmic SOD to scavenge superoxide and thereby to inhibit superoxide-mediated reactions can be mimicked by the copper-containing plasma protein and acute-phase reactant, ceruloplasmin. Ceruloplasmin, at concentrations present in normal plasma, inhibited reduction of both cytochrome c and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) mediated by the aerobic action of xanthine oxidase on hypoxanthine (a superoxide-generating system). Ceruloplasmin neither inhibited formation of uric acid by xanthine oxidase nor accelerated autooxidation of cytochrome c. Furthermore, in an experimental system in which contact between ceruloplasmin and indicator was prevented by a relatively impermeable lipid membrane barrier, ceruloplasmin inhibited reduction of NBT trapped within liposomes exposed to xanthine oxidase and hypoxanthine. Ceruloplasmin also inhibited reduction of cytochrome c and NBT mediated by the aerobic action of xanthine oxidase on acetaldehyde (another superoxide-generating system) and mimicked the activity of purified human erythrocyte SOD by inhibiting photoreduction of NBT and by accelerating aerobic photooxidation of dianisidine. Ceruloplasmin could be separated from purified human erythrocyte SOD by electrophoresis on alkaline 12% polyacrylamide gels and identified by its superoxide-scavenging activity. These results suggest that ceruloplasmin may function as a circulating scavenger of oxygen-derived free radicals.
Inhibition of lipid peroxidation and superoxide generation by diterpenoids from Rosmarinus officinalis.	Four diterpenoids, carnosic acid (1), carnosol (2), rosmanol (3), and epirosmanol (4), were isolated as antioxidative agents from the leaves of Rosmarinus officinalis by bioassay-directed fractionation. These diterpenoids inhibited superoxide anion production in the xanthine/xanthine oxidase system. Mitochondrial and microsomal lipid peroxidation induced by NADH or NADPH oxidation were also completely inhibited by these diterpenes at the concentration of 3-30 microM. Furthermore, carnosic acid protected red cells against oxidative hemolysis. These phenolic diterpenes were shown to be effective to protect biological systems against oxidative stresses.
Carvedilol, a new beta-adrenoreceptor blocker antihypertensive drug, protects against free-radical-induced endothelial dysfunction.	We tested the ability of carvedilol, an antihypertensive beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist with antioxidant properties, to protect rat aorta rings from free-radical-induced endothelial cell (EC) dysfunction. Rings were exposed to the superoxide generator pyrogallol. Vascular function of intact rings was assessed by observing acetylcholine (ACh)-induced vasorelaxation following submaximal contraction by U-46619. Function of rings denuded of ECs was assessed by observing S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP)-induced vasorelaxation following submaximal contraction by U-46619. Carvedilol exerted a significant protective effect against pyrogallol-induced vasoconstriction (17.1 +/- 4.8 vs. 31.9 +/- 5.4% for vehicle, p < 0.05). Carvedilol also demonstrated significant protection against pyrogallol-induced endothelium dysfunction, enhancing vasorelaxation to 1,000 nmol/l ACh (73 +/- 3.9 vs. 48 +/- 3.0% vehicle, p < 0.01). These protective effects were not seen with propanolol, a pure beta-receptor antagonist. Carvedilol mixed with pyrogallol and SNAP preserved SNAP-induced vasorelaxation in rings denuded of ECs (80.4 +/- 5.3 vs. 63.7 +/- 4.8% control, p < 0.05). Carvedilol appears to protect vascular function by scavenging free radicals and enhancing the effects of NO.
Nitric oxide and superoxide radical are involved in both initiation and development of adjuvant arthritis in rats.	Nitric oxide synthase(NOS) inhibitor,N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10-300 mg/kg) and L-NG-monomethyl-arginine (L-NMMA, 30-300 mg/kg) suppressed the swellings of adjuvant-injected paw of rats (25-54%) at day 2 and 8 when dosed intraperitoneally and orally for 4 days from day -1 to day 2 after adjuvant. L-NAME (30-300 mg/kg) also suppressed the edema of the non adjuvant-injected paws (15-42%) at day 28. Local injection of this inhibitor (2 and 10 mg/kg) was without effect. L-arginine (1 g/kg, i.p.), impaired the suppression by L-NAME. Bovine blood Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD, 3 mg/kg, i.p.: 28% suppression) and L-NAME (30 mg/kg i.p.: 36% suppression) showed additive effect (52%) in adjuvant-injected paws at day 8 when co-injected. As the effect of 30 mg/kg L-NAME corresponded nearly to that of 10 mg/kg VoltarenR, this NOS inhibitor would be worth considering as an anti-inflammatory agent. Sodium nitroprusside (NO-donor) and methylene blue (guanylate cyclase inhibitor) had no effect. L-NAME was also suppressive when dosed after adjuvant inoculation and NO is involved in the development and maintenance of swelling.
Evaluation of superoxide scavenging activities of hamamelis extract and hamamelitannin.	Hamamelitannin, which is a component of bark extract of hamamelis (Hamamelis virginior L.), was found to be a potent scavenger of superoxide anion radicals. Superoxide anion scavenging activity of the compound was evaluated by ESR-spin trap method using DMPO (5,5'-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide) as a spin trapping agent. The IC50 value (the concentration producing 50% inhibition of superoxide anion radicals) of hamamelitannin was found to be 1.38 +/- 0.06 microM much lower than that of ascorbic acid (23.31 +/- 2.23 microM). Supporting the superoxide scavenging activity of hamamelitannin, the compound showed both suppressive ability against depolymelization of hyaluronic acid and protective ability against cytotoxicity induced by superoxide anion radicals. Hamamelitannin increased the survival rate of fibroblast to 85.5 +/- 3.3%, compared with that of control (27.2 +/- 4.3%).
Inhibition by erythromycin of superoxide anion production by human polymorphonuclear leukocytes through the action of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase.	The long-term low-dose administration of erythromycin is effective in treating chronic inflammatory diseases of the lower respiratory tract. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanism for this therapeutic effect of erythromycin. We measured its effect on the production of superoxide anion (O2-) by polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) that was induced by N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP) or by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). 25 microM erythromycin inhibited fMLP-induced O2- production by about 50%, but not PMA-induced O2- production. Moreover, this inhibition was overcome by adding an inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), H-89. The fMLP-induced O2- production was also inhibited by isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic agonist, and by dibutyryl cyclic AMP, a cell membrane permeating analogue of cyclic AMP. The inhibition was also overcome by the addition of H-89. Therefore, the effect of erythromycin seemed to be, in part, mediated through the activation of PKA. The inhibition by erythromycin of O2- generation by PMN may contribute to the beneficial effect of this drug in treating chronic respiratory diseases.
Superoxide released from neutrophils causes a reduction in nitric oxide gas.	Exhaled nitric oxide (NO) is increased in some inflammatory airway disorders but not in others such as cystic fibrosis and acute respiratory distress syndrome. NO can combine with superoxide (O-2) to form peroxynitrite, which can decompose into nitrate. Activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) releasing O-2 could account for a reduction in exhaled NO in disorders such as cystic fibrosis. To test this hypothesis in vitro, we stimulated confluent cultures of LA-4 cells, a murine lung epithelial cell line, to produce NO. Subsequently, human PMNs stimulated to produce O-2 were added to the LA-4 cells. A gradual increase in NO in the headspace above the cultures was observed and was markedly reduced by the addition of PMNs. An increase in nitrate in the culture supernatant fluids was measured, but no increase in nitrite was detected. Superoxide dismutase attenuated the PMN effect, and xanthine/xanthine oxidase reproduced the effect. No changes in epithelial cell inducible NO synthase protein or mRNA were observed. These data demonstrate that O-2 released from PMNs can decrease NO by conversion to nitrate and suggest a potential mechanism for modulation of NO levels in vivo.
Effects of endogenous superoxide anion and nitric oxide on cholinergic constriction of normal and hyperreactive guinea pig airways.	In a guinea pig model of allergic asthma, we have recently established that a deficiency of nitric oxide (NO) contributes to the increased ex vivo responsiveness of isolated perfused tracheae to methacholine after the early asthmatic reaction at 6 h after inhalational challenge of the animals with ovalbumin aerosol. Because this deficiency could be caused by a reaction of NO with enhanced levels of inflammation-induced superoxide anion (O-2), we examined the effect of endogenous O-2 on the regulation of methacholine-induced constriction by NO of intact perfused tracheal tube preparations from unchallenged (control) guinea pigs and from animals 6 h after ovalbumin challenge. In the presence of the NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 microM), tracheae obtained from unchallenged guinea pigs showed a 1.7-fold increase in the maximal response to intraluminally applied methacholine (p < 0.05). By contrast, the maximal airway response to methacholine was significantly decreased in the presence of the O-2 scavenger superoxide dismutase (SOD; 100 U/ml), by approximately 45% (p < 0.01). The SOD-induced decrease in responsiveness to methacholine was reversed by L-NAME. Tracheal preparations obtained at 6 h after allergen challenge showed a 1. 8-fold increased responsiveness to intraluminally applied methacholine compared with controls (p < 0.001), which was not further enhanced in the presence of L-NAME. SOD had neither an effect on the increased responsiveness nor did it restore the potentiating effect of L-NAME. These results indicate that (1) in normoreactive tracheal preparations, the regulatory role of NO is partially counteracted by endogenous O-2, and ( 2) the deficiency of NO in hyperreactive tracheae obtained at 6 h after ovalbumin challenge is not caused by its reaction with O-2, but rather to decreased cNOS activity. De Boer J, Pouw FMH, Zaagsma J, Meurs H. Effects of endogenous superoxide anion and nitric oxide on cholinergic constriction of normal and hyperreactive guinea pig airways.
Erythrocyte antioxidant systems protect cultured endothelial cells against oxidant damage.	A study was undertaken to assess the ability of the erythrocyte to protect other tissues against oxidative damage. Radiolabelled (51Cr) human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were incubated with erythrocytes and neutrophils activated with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). Damage to the endothelial cells was indicated by release of radioactivity into the suspending medium. We found that the co-incubation of HUVEC with an increasing range of erythrocyte concentrations resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in the release of radioactivity. When the ability of superoxide to cross the erythrocyte membrane or the glutathione systems was inhibited, the extent of endothelial cell damage increased. Inhibition of the catalase system did not affect results. It was concluded that the erythrocytes afforded some protection against oxidative damage to the endothelial cells by taking up and deactivating the superoxide ions. This protection depends upon intact erythrocyte antioxidant systems. These data support the hypothesis that erythrocytes can provide antioxidant protection to other tissues in vivo.
