Plexin-A3 mediates semaphorin signaling and regulates the development of hippocampal axonal projections.	Plexins are receptors implicated in mediating signaling by semaphorins, a family of axonal chemorepellents. The role of specific plexins in mediating semaphorin function in vivo has not, however, yet been examined in vertebrates. Here, we show that plexin-A3 is the most ubiquitously expressed plexin family member within regions of the developing mammalian nervous system known to contain semaphorin-responsive neurons. Using a chimeric receptor construct, we provide evidence that plexin-A3 can transduce a repulsive signal in growth cones in vitro. Analysis of plexin-A3 knockout mice shows that plexin-A3 contributes to Sema3F and Sema3A signaling and that plexin-A3 regulates the development of hippocampal axonal projections in vivo.
The origin of extrinsic nitrergic axons supplying the human eye.	Nitrergic nerve fibres of intrinsic and extrinsic origin constitute an important component of the autonomic innervation in the human eye. The intrinsic source of nitrergic nerves are the ganglion cells in choroid and ciliary muscle. In order to obtain more information on the origin of extrinsic nitrergic nerves in the human eye, we obtained superior cervical, ciliary, pterygopalatine and trigeminal ganglia from six human donors, and stained them for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-D). In the superior cervical ganglia, nNOS/NADPH-D-positive varicose axons were observed whereas perikarya were consistently negative. Fewer than 1% of perikarya in the ciliary ganglia were labelled for nNOS/NADPH-D. The diameter of nNOS/NADPH-D-positive ciliary perikarya was between 8 and 10 microm, which was markedly smaller than the diameter of the vast majority of negative perikarya in the ciliary ganglion. More than 70% of perikarya in the pterygopalatine ganglia were intensely labelled for both nNOS and NADPH-D. In trigeminal ganglia, 18% of perikarya were nNOS/NADPH-D-positive. The average diameter of trigeminal nNOS/NADPH-D perikarya was between 25 and 45 microm. Pterygopalatine and trigeminal ganglia are the most likely sources for extrinsic nerve fibres to the human eye.
Neuronal pathways to the rat conjunctiva revealed by retrograde tracing and immunocytochemistry.	The origin and neuropeptide content of nerve fibres in the rat conjunctiva were studied by retrograde tracing and denervations in combination with immunocytochemistry. Immunocytochemistry revealed nerve fibres containing neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), helospectin, substance P (SP), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) around blood vessels, smooth muscle bundles and glands. Removal of the sphenopalatine ganglion eliminated the majority of the VIP-, PHI- and helospectin-containing fibres. Sympathectomy eliminated the majority of the NPY-containing fibres in the conjunctiva. Removal of both the sphenopalatine ganglion and the superior cervical ganglion led to further reduction of the NPY fibres. Injection of the retrograde tracer True Blue into the conjunctiva resulted in the appearance of labelled cell bodies in the trigeminal ganglion, the sphenopalatine ganglion, the superior cervical ganglion, and the ciliary ganglion. Judging from the number of labelled nerve cell bodies, the superior cervical ganglion contributes most to the innervation. These results indicate that the majority of NPY-containing nerve fibres in the conjunctiva derives from the superior cervical ganglion (sympathetic nerve supply). Most of the VIP- and a minor population of the NPY-containing fibres in the conjunctiva originate in the sphenopalatine ganglion (parasympathetic nerve supply). A sparse amount of VIP- and NPY-containing fibres derives from the ciliary ganglion. Nerve fibres containing SP and/or CGRP emanate from the trigeminal ganglia (sensory nerve supply). Together the findings indicate that several ganglia project to the conjunctiva and that many neuropeptides may be involved in the control of conjunctival activity.
A comparative study of NADPH-diaphorase in the sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the upper thoracic cord between spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats.	With retrograde tracing using fluorogold injection into the superior cervical ganglion and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry, the present comparative study revealed that the retrogradely labelled neurons in n. intermediolateralis pars funicularis (ILf) and n. intermediolateralis pars principalis (ILp) of the autonomic region in the upper thoracic cord exhibited a much stronger reactivity for NADPH-diaphorase in Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats than those in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). It was found that in ILf in WKY rats, 77.62% of the fluorogold-labelled neurons were NADPH-d positive, while in SHR, only 56.43% of the labelled neurons were NADPH-d positive. The frequency distribution of NADPH-d positive retrogradely labelled neurons was significantly reduced in ILf of the spinal cord of SHR (U-test: P < 0.01). In ILp in WKY rats, 65.25% of fluorogold-labelled neurons were NADPH-d positive in WKY rats, while in SHR, only 56.28% of the labelled neurons were NADPH-d positive. Although the difference (P > 0.05) in the frequency of NADPH-d positive neurons in ILp between the two strains of rats was not significant, the reductions in SHR seemed considerable. Examination of the preganglionic sympathetic trunk and the superior cervical ganglion between SHR and WKY rats revealed that virtually all the NADPH-d positive fibers were derived from the sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In SHR, the NADPH-d positive fibers were not as intensely stained as those of WKY rats. This preliminary results suggest that nitric oxide, as an inhibitory neurotransmitter, may be implicated in the onset of hypertension.
GABA- and glutamate-immunoreactive synapses on sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion.	Our previous work suggests that virtually all of the synapses on sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the rat adrenal medulla are immunoreactive for either the inhibitory amino acid, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or the excitatory amino acid, L-glutamate. To investigate whether or not this is true for other groups of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, and to determine whether or not the proportion of inputs containing each type of amino acid neurotransmitter is the same for different groups of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, we retrogradely labelled rat and rabbit sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and used post-embedding immunogold on ultrathin sections to localise GABA- and glutamate-immunoreactivity. The cell bodies and dendrites of both rat and rabbit sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion received synapses and direct contacts from nerve fibres immunoreactive for GABA and from nerve fibres immunoreactive for glutamate. In the rat, GABA was present in 48.9% of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion, and glutamate was present in 51.7% of inputs. Double immunogold labelling for glutamate and GABA on the same section, as well as labelling of consecutive serial sections for the two antigens, indicated that GABA and glutamate occur in separate populations of nerve fibres that provide input to rat sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion. We now have shown that GABA or glutamate is present in virtually all of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and in essentially all of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons supplying the adrenal medulla. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that all fast synaptic transmission in central autonomic pathways may be mediated by either excitatory or inhibitory amino acids. Furthermore, we showed a statistically significant difference in the proportion of glutamate-immunoreactive inputs between sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and sympathoadrenal neurons (data from Llewellyn-Smith et al. [Llewellyn-Smith, I.J., Phend, K.D., Minson, J.B., Pilowsky, P.M., Chalmers, J.P., 1992. Glutamate immunoreactive synapses on retrogradely labelled sympathetic neurons in rat thoracic spinal cord. Brain Res. 581, 67-80]), with preganglionics supplying the adrenal medulla receiving more excitatory inputs than those supplying the superior cervical ganglion. This increased excitatory input to sympathoadrenal neurons may explain the predominant activation of these neurons following baroreceptor unloading.
A target specific pathway from nitric oxide synthase immunoreactive preganglionic sympathetic to superior cervical ganglion neurons innervating the submandibular salivary gland.	The correlations between nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-immunoreactive (NOS-ir) preganglionic sympathetic neurons (PSNs) in the thoracic spinal cord and the neurons in the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) were studied with special reference to target specificity. NOS-ir neurons were distributed in the intermediate gray of the spinal cord and most numerous in the intermediolateral subnucleus of the PSNs. NOS-ir PSNs received direct synaptic contacts from tyrosine hydroxylase-ir, 5-hydroxytryptamine-ir, gamma-amino butyric acid-ir, and phosphate-activated glutaminase-ir axons. A majority of PSNs projecting to SCG were NOS-ir but some were NOS-negative. Large SCG neurons surrounded by a dense network of NOS-ir axons from PSNs projected to the submandibular salivary gland. NPY-ir small SCG neurons devoid of NOS-ir PSN innervation projected to blood vessels. SIF cells in the SCG were NOS-negative and provided with a meshwork of NOS-ir axons. The present results suggest a subpopulation of SCG neurons may be concerned with a distinct functional category in the rat under the influence of NOS-ir preganglionic sympathetic neurons.
Autocrine hepatocyte growth factor provides a local mechanism for promoting axonal growth.	In this report, we describe a novel local mechanism necessary for optimal axonal growth that involves hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Sympathetic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion coexpress bioactive HGF and its receptor, the Met tyrosine kinase, both in vivo and in vitro. Exogenous HGF selectively promotes the growth but not survival of cultured sympathetic neurons; the magnitude of this growth effect is similar to that observed with exogenous NGF. Conversely, HGF antibodies that inhibit endogenous HGF decrease sympathetic neuron growth but have no effect on survival. This autocrine HGF is required locally by sympathetic axons for optimal growth, as demonstrated using compartmented cultures. Thus, autocrine HGF provides a local, intrinsic mechanism for promoting neuronal growth without affecting survival, a role that may be essential during developmental axogenesis or after neuronal injury.
Neuropilin-2 is a receptor for semaphorin IV: insight into the structural basis of receptor function and specificity.	Neuropilins bind secreted members of the semaphorin family of proteins. Neuropilin-1 is a receptor for Sema III. Here, we show that neuropilin-2 is a receptor for the secreted semaphorin Sema IV and acts selectively to mediate repulsive guidance events in discrete populations of neurons. neuropilin-2 and semaIV are expressed in strikingly complementary patterns during neurodevelopment. The extracellular complement-binding (CUB) and coagulation factor domains of neuropilin-2 confer specificity to the Sema IV repulsive response, and these domains of neuropilin-1 are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III semaphorin (sema) domain. The coagulation factor domains alone are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III immunoglobulin- (Ig-) basic domain and the unrelated ligand, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Lastly, neuropilin-1 can homomultimerize and form heteromultimers with neuropilin-2. These results provide insight into how interactions between neuropilins and secreted semaphorins function to coordinate repulsive axon guidance during neurodevelopment.
HPLC detection of serotonin within the rat cochlea.	This study was performed to analyse the cochlear concentrations of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA), their sources and modifications induced by noise exposure. Superior cervical ganglionectomy did not modify these concentrations. However, removal of the blood by aortic perfusion reduced significantly (about 76%) the cochlear concentration of 5-HT without affecting the 5-HIAA concentration. These results indicate that blood constitutes an important source of 5-HT to the cochlea, opposite to the superior cervical ganglion. Exposure to noise at 90 dB SPL did not modify the total cochlear concentrations of 5-HT and 5-HIAA, or the concentrations remaining after removal of the blood, suggesting that 5-HT could have a modulatory role in the cochlea distinct from that of olivocochlear neurotransmitters.
The role of N-type Ca2+ channels in regulating excitability of guinea-pig sympathetic neurones.	Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated channels activated during the action potential modifies neuronal excitability by activating several types of K+ channel. We have determined the effects of Ca2+ influx through N-type Ca2+ channels in sympathetic paravertebral neurones of the guinea-pig, using the specific antagonist, omega-conotoxin GVIA. Blockade of large conductance (BK) Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels slowed action potential repolarization but did not affect the peak amplitude of the conductance (gKCal) underlying the afterhyperpolarization. Blockade of small conductance (SK) Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels decreased gKCal but did not affect action potential repolarization. Blockade of N-type Ca2+ channels slowed action potential repolarization and reduced the peak amplitude of gKCa1. We conclude that Ca2+ entry via N-type channels activates both BK and SK channels in guinea-pig sympathetic neurones. This differs from our previous observations in rat sympathetic neurones.
