Superantigen hypothesis for the early development of chronic hyperplastic sinusitis with massive nasal polyposis.	The pathogenesis, pathophysiology, and immunobiology of chronic hyperplastic sinusitis with massive nasal polyposis are starting to become unraveled. Allergy, viral infection, bacterial infection, fungal infection, and environmental pollution have all been suggested as possible initial triggers that may upregulate inflammation of the lateral wall of the nose to develop nasal polyposis. The purpose of this review is to present data from our laboratory that suggest that one of the possible early events in the development of inflammation of the lateral wall of the nose in chronic hyperplastic sinusitis with massive nasal polyposis is the production of exotoxins from Staphylococcus aureus. The exotoxins may act as superantigens and cause activation and clonal expansion of lymphocytes with specific Vbeta regions, resulting in massive cytokine production.
Superantigen types in Staphylococcus aureus isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis.	The screening of 17 SAg genes of S. aureus isolated from the sputum of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients revealed that among 47 genetically different strains, 39 (83 %) carried SAg genes. Superantigens forming enterotoxin gene cluster were detected in 20 strains. The 2nd most common superantigen type was selk detected in 13 strains. In 9 strains, selk occurred together with the sea gene. Out of 74 strains recovered from nasal carriers, 56 (75 %) were found to carry SAg genes, 38 carried egc genes, while selk was detected in 5 strains. The predominant SAg types in both investigated S. aureus populations were egc and selk/sea, but selk gene frequency was significantly higher in the CF-derived strains.
Detection of Staphylococcus aureus carrying the gene for toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 by quantum-dot-probe complexes.	In this study, a high-sensitive and high-specific method to detect the toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1)-producing Staphylococcus aureus was developed based on quantum dot (QD) and oligonucleotide probe complexes. S. aureus carrying tst gene which is responsible for the production of TSST-1 were detected based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) occurring between CdSe/ZnS QD donors and black hole quencher (BHQ) acceptors. QD-DNA probe was prepared by conjugating the carboxyl-modified QD and the amino-modified DNA with the EDC. Photoluminescence (PL) quenching was achieved through FRET after the addition of BHQ-DNA which was attached to tst gene probe by match sequence hybridization. The PL recovery was detected in the presence of target DNA by BHQ-DNA detached from QD-DNA probe because of the different affinities. In contrast, mismatch oligonucleotides and DNAs of other bacteria did not contribute to fluorescence intensity recovery, which exhibits the higher selectivity of the biosensor. The experimental results showed clearly that the intensity of recovered QD PL is linear to the concentration of target DNA within the range of 0.2-1.2 μM and the detection limit was 0.2 μM.
Multiplex real-time PCR assay for detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and associated toxin genes.	We describe a real-time PCR assay for the detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and genes encoding toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 and Panton-Valentine leukocidin. Rapid screening and detection of toxins is a useful tool for surveillance studies and outbreak investigations involving large numbers of isolates.
Development of a panel of seven duplex real-time PCR assays for detecting 13 streptococcal superantigens.	Streptococcal superantigens (SAgs) are the major virulence factors of infection in humans for group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria. A panel consisting of seven duplex real-time PCR assays was developed to simultaneously detect 13 streptococcal SAgs and one internal control which may be important in the control of GAS-mediated diseases.
