Mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni develop a novel non-T-lymphocyte suppressor population which inhibits virus-specific CTL induction via a soluble factor.	We previously observed that Schistosoma mansoni-infected mice were deficient in their ability to mount a CTL response to unrelated viral antigens and to clear a vaccinia viral infection. Here, we explore the mechanism of that deficiency. Mixing experiments showed that splenocytes from S. mansoni-infected mice actively suppress stimulation in vitro of both viral-peptide specific CTL in spleen cells from virus-infected mice, and allospecific CTL. The mechanism of suppression involves at least in part a soluble factor, in that it can occur across a 0.4-microm membrane which prohibits direct cell contact. However, the inhibition is not alleviated by blocking with antibodies to IL-4, IL-10 or TGF-beta. Fractionation of the splenocyte population from S. mansoni-infected mice shows that the suppression is mediated by a non-B, non-T cell that expresses CD16 and Mac-1, but not FcepsilonR or NK1.1. This represents a novel suppressor population that is distinct from the FcepsilonRI(+) populations of non-B, non-T cells in the spleens of S. mansoni-infected mice that provide a major source of IL-4 in these animals. Similar cells in schistosome-infected humans could affect susceptibility to other infections or responsiveness to vaccines.
Suppressor cells and soluble factors from the spleens of UV-irradiated mice.	Several indices of splenic reactivity were measured daily after ultraviolet (UV) irradiation of mice. Spleen weight increased to a maximum after 5 days. Suppressor cell activity, manifested in various assays, peaked slightly earlier. The ability of passively transferred spleen cells to suppress the induction of contact hypersensitivity (CHS) was maximal after 4 days, as was the production of soluble suppressor factors in culture. The factors were detected by suppression of CHS in vivo and leucocyte adherence inhibition (LAI) in vitro. These assays appeared to detect different factors: an I-J- factor active in CHS assays and an I-J+ factor active in LAI assays. The latter factor required CD4-, CD8+ lymphocytes for its production.
Neonatal thymic contrasuppressor activity on graft versus host reactions towards self histocompatibility antigens. Parental effects.	The ability of fetal and neonatal F1 thymocytes to regulate parental graft versus host (GvH) reactions against self histocompatibility antigens was investigated. The results obtained showed that: (1) fetal F1 thymocytes were able to suppress both maternal and paternal GvH reactivity; (2) at birth, thymocytes were still able to suppress maternal GvH reactivity while no suppression of paternal reactions was detected; the ability to suppress maternal GvH reactions could be detected until day 3; (3) the loss of suppressor activity correlated with the ability of thymocytes to contrasuppress parental GvH reactions. Thus, 24-h F1 thymocytes showed contrasuppressor activity on paternal GvH reactivity and 4-day thymocytes on maternal reactivity. Thymic cells with contrasuppressor activity were shown to be Lyt-1+, CD4+, CD8- and adherent to Vicia villosa. These results suggest the existence of parental effects influencing the duration of thymic suppression and the subsequent appearance of contrasuppressor activity on GvH reactions against self histocompatibility antigens, according to the maternal or paternal origin of self antigens towards which the reaction is directed.
Progesterone-mediated immunomodulation in pregnancy: its relevance to leukocyte immunotherapy of recurrent miscarriage.	Progesterone is crucial for the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy. Progesterone-regulated genes in the pregnant uterus control the development of endometrial receptivity as well as recruitment and differentiation of decidual NK cells, which in turn act on angiogenesis and trophoblast invasion. The link between progesterone and the immune system is established by lymphocyte progesterone receptors expressed in peripheral blood gammadelta T cells of pregnant women and in peripheral NK cells. Regulation of lymphocyte progesterone receptors is activation related, thus efficient recognition of fetal antigens is a requirement for the initiation of progesterone-dependent immunoregulatory mechanisms. Several immunological effects of progesterone are mediated by progesterone-induced blocking factor--the product of a progesterone-induced gene in lymphocytes. One part of unexplained recurrent miscarriages might have an immunological etiology. Immunization of the mothers with paternal or third-party leukocytes aims to correct the misregulated antifetal immune response. There are, however, serious concerns about this treatment, including the lack of information about the mode of action and possible adverse effects of the treatment, the failure to detect a significant effect of immunotherapy and the lack of a reliable generally accepted marker for patient selection. These concerns will be discussed in this review.
A monoclonal antibody raised to tumor-specific T cell-derived suppressor factors also recognizes T suppressor inducer factors of the 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl acetyl hapten suppressor network.	A monoclonal antibody (mAb), B16G, was raised from BALB/c mice immunized with affinity-purified T suppressor factors (TsF) specific for the murine mastocytoma P815. This mAb was found to bind to polyclonal TsF isolated from the spleens of tumor-bearing animals, and to the TsF released from a P815-specific T cell hybridoma. In this study, B16G was tested for its reactivity with TsF produced in the 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl acetyl hapten system. The factors from three types of suppressor T cell hybridomas, each representing the immortalized analogues of the inducer T suppressor cell (Ts1), transducer suppressor cell (Ts2), and effector suppressor cell (Ts3) network populations, were tested. B16G was found to be reactive with two sources of TsF1 as assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and delayed-type hypersensitivity bioassay. By contrast, TsF2 and TsF3 were nonreactive with B16G. These results indicate that B16G recognizes class-specific suppressor factor determinants, and that the transducer/effector factors of the network are apparently serologically distinct. Because the B16G mAb fails to recognize 4-hydroxy-3-nitro-phenyl acetyl-specific TsF3 that share idiotype-related determinants with TsF1 yet binds to TsF1 molecules that have interacted with antigen, the binding is apparently independent of the site of antigen recognition. Additionally, the results show that the tumor-specific TsF1 raised in one suppressor system share serologic determinants with anti-hapten TsF1 raised in another.
Cells involved in the immune response. XXXVI. The thymic antigen-specific suppressor cell in the immunized rabbit is a T cell with receptors for FcG and the antigen and it acts, via a secreted suppressor factor, directly on the immune splenic AFC B cell to inhibit antibody secretion.	Following i.v. immunization of the normal outbred rabbit with sheep (SRBC) or horse (HRBC) erythrocytes, antigen-specific suppressor cells are generated in the thymus capable of inhibiting the generation of haemolytic plaques by the autologous or allogeneic splenic antibody-forming cells (AFC) in the plaque-forming cell (PFC) assay. These suppressor cells secrete an antigen-specific suppressor factor in short-term (4-24 hr) culture in vitro. The suppressor cells are not detected in the thymus prior to Day 4, exhibit peak activity between Days 5 and 11 post-immunization, and decline slowly thereafter. Suppressor cells can no longer be detected in the thymus by Day 60 postimmunization. Suppressor cells are not detected in any of the other lymphoid organs of the immunized rabbit nor in any lymphoid organ in the unimmunized rabbit. The thymic suppressor cell is a T cell with surface receptors for the antigen (SRBC or HRBC) and for FcG. On the other hand, the AFC B cells generated in the spleen of the immunized rabbit possess cell-surface receptors for only the antigen and not for FcG. Both the suppressor cells and the secreted suppressor factor act directly on the AFC B lymphocytes to inhibit the generation of antigen-specific haemolytic plaques in the PFC assay.
Immunoregulatory effects of a suppressor factor from healthy pregnant women's lymphocytes after progesterone induction.	Progesterone-treated pregnancy lymphocytes release an immunologic blocking factor. The mode of action of this substance was investigated. The supernatant of progesterone-treated pregnancy lymphocytes was highly suppressive of natural cytotoxicity toward human embryonic fibroblast target cells as well as of natural killer cell activity. The effect was not observed when progesterone induction was performed in the presence of RU 486, a progesterone receptor blocking agent. The factor was able to inhibit mixed lymphocyte reactions (MLRs), and transfer coculture experiments revealed that this effect was dependent on major histocompatibility complex nonspecific, nonrestricted suppressor T cells. The activation/expansion of suppressor inducer and suppressor effector T cells was further proved by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis of the populations from MLRs cultured in the presence of the inhibitory factor. These changes were not observed with MLRs performed in the presence of supernatants from progesterone + RU 486-treated peripheral blood lymphocytes. The inhibitory material, on the other hand, did not affect either production or function of IL-2. We conclude that in the presence of high local concentrations of progesterone, a suppressive pathway dependent on specific progesterone-CD8+ lymphocyte interaction might be established. This mechanism might play an important role in the maintenance of pregnancy.
The suppressor factor NBxFO is not species-specific.	The NBxFO factor was obtained from the supernatant liquids of neonatal spleen: myeloma fusions. Previously it had been shown that this factor could inhibit the proliferative response of alloreactive T cell lines. In this study the factor was found to inhibit the MLR of the parent species (mouse) as well as the MLRs of humans and rats. Thus, the NBxFO factor has activity that is not species-specific. Furthermore, the factor was found to inhibit the lectin-induced mitogenesis of these 3 species. Gel chromatography revealed that the moleclar weight of the molecule responsible for suppressing human lymphocyte mitogenesis is the same as previously determined for suppression of mouse proliferative responses.
Partial purification of an immunosuppressive protein from a human tumor cell line and analysis of its relationship to transforming growth factor beta.	The A673 human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line constitutively produces an acid-soluble, potent immunosuppressive factor (ISF), which inhibits T-cell proliferation. We have partially purified this factor from the culture supernatant of A673 cells by a sequence of acid extraction, gel filtration, cation exchange chromatography, and reverse-phase HPLC. Characterization studies indicate that ISF is similar or identical to transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta). ISF exhibits a molecular weight of 25 kDa in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels. ISF, like TGF beta, is a very basic protein (pI = 9.5) that is sensitive to reduction. Anti-TGF beta 1 antibodies completely block ISF activity in the thymocyte assay. Furthermore, ISF, like TGF beta, stimulated the anchorage-independent growth of normal rat kidney fibroblasts in soft agar.
Feedback regulation of antibody formation by suppressive B cell factor: preferential suppression of high-affinity antibody production by memory B lymphocytes.	Cloned TS4.44 cells, which were hybridized HAT-sensitive 3T3-4E cells with B cells stimulated by immune complexes produce a lymphokine, biochemical and biological characteristics of which are identical with those of conventional suppressive B cell factor (SBF) synthesized by Fc receptor bearing B cells stimulated with immune complexes. This factor is known to suppress B cell responses to antigen/mitogen. The present studies were carried out by using this hybridoma-derived SBF to characterize the large proportion of B cells sensitive to SBF and the small proportion of B cells resistant to it in terms of affinities of antibodies which these cells are able to produce. The treatment of normal spleen cells with SBF resulted in a 50-70% decrease in anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) antibody production when the cells were transferred into X-ray-irradiated mice along with alum-precipitated dinitrophenyl-conjugated keyhole limpet hemocyanin (DNP-KLH). The affinity of anti-DNP antibody molecules produced in these mice was significantly lower than that of the controls, even if immunization was repeated. The target cells for SBF were B, and not helper T cells which might be involved in the process of affinity maturation. A single treatment of spleen cells in vitro with SBF was sufficient to abrogate the precursors committed to mediate high-affinity anti-DNP antibody responses, since the retreatment with SBF in vitro and transfer into the second irradiated recipients along with antigens of spleen cells of mice to which SBF-treated spleen cells were transferred 3 weeks before resulted in almost the same level of plaque-forming-cell-responses as in mice which received medium-treated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Soluble factors in tolerance and contact sensitivity to DNFB in mice. VI. Cellular and lymphokine requirements for stimulating suppressor factor production in vitro.	Coculture of spleen cells from mice tolerized with 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulfonate (DNBS) and DNP-labeled spleen cells (DNP-SC) activates Lyt-2+ T suppressor cells (Ts) to synthesize and release a suppressor factor (SSF) into the supernatant, which suppresses the transfer of contact sensitivity to DNFB. The purpose of the present study was to examine in greater detail the signals required to activate DNBS-primed Ts to produce SSF. The supernatant from cultures of tolerant cells and glutaraldehyde-fixed DNP-SC did not have SSF. In contrast, the soluble cell lysate from these cultures did contain the suppressive activity. Pretreatment of glutaraldehyde-fixed DNP-SC with either anti-DNP or anti-class I, but not anti-class II MHC, antibodies blocked SSF synthesis. The addition of IL 1 to cultures of DNBS-tolerant cells and glutaraldehyde fixed DNP-SC restored the ability of the Ts to release the synthesized factor. These results indicate that Ts recognition of the hapten/class I MHC determinant stimulates the synthesis of SSF, and a costimulator is required to induce the release of the factor. The supernatants from cultures of either L3T4-depleted tolerant cells and DNP-SC or tolerant cells and anti-I-A antibody-treated DNP-SC had no SSF activity. The addition of a costimulator (IL 1) also restored the ability of the Ts to release the synthesized factor in cultures of L3T4-depleted tolerant cells and DNP-SC. These results suggest that an L3T4 cell in the DNBS-primed cell population interacts with I-A determinants on a cell in the DNP-stimulator population to initiate the generation of the mediator required for SSF release. This further suggests that the Ts is unable to induce the costimulator from the hapten-presenting cell during interaction with the DNP/class I MHC ligand. Therefore, the production of SSF is regulated not only by the presentation of the appropriate hapten/MHC determinant but also by the interactions of cells that function in generating the costimulator needed to induce release of the suppressor factor.
Non-specific regulatory mechanism of contact sensitivity: the requirement of intermediate cells for non-specific suppressor factor (NSF) activity.	Non-specific suppressor factor (NSF), which inhibits passive transfer of contact sensitivity (CS), is produced spontaneously from macrophage-like suppressor cells which were induced by intravenous (i.v.) administration of oxazolone (Ox)-conjugated spleen cells. NSF is absorbed with normal spleen cells, and NSF-treated spleen cells acquire the ability to suppress the transfer of the effector cell function of CS non-specifically. In the present study, the events involved in the suppression by NSF were investigated. The involvement of intermediate cells between NSF and effector T cells in the suppression by NSF was suggested by the following observations: (i) NSF was absorbed with plastic-adherent and cyclophosphamide (CY)-sensitive non-T cells present in normal spleen cells; (ii) deletion of plastic adherent and CY-sensitive cells but not of adult thymectomy (ATx)-sensitive cells from the effector cell population, rendered the effector cells resistant to the suppressor activity of NSF; (iii) reconstitution of CY-pretreated effector cell population with Thy-1-negative spleen cells restored the ability of NSF to suppress CY-pretreated effector cells function. On the contrary, reconstitution with Ia-negative spleen cells did not restore the ability of NSF to suppress CY-pretreated effector cells function. Thus, NSF may not suppress directly the effector T-cell function, but intermediate cells, which are possibly macrophage-like cells, may exert a suppressive role after absorbing NSF. Species specificity was observed between the interaction of NSF and intermediate cells. The possible role of the intermediate cells in the suppression circuit of CS by NSF is discussed.
Role of a SER immune suppressor in immune surveillance.	A potent immunosuppressor factor, known as SER (suppressive E-receptor factor) has been identified in the body fluids of cancer patients. SER has been proven to be immunochemically analogous to the fetal form of haptoglobin. In this paper, we examine the role of SER immune suppressor in the immune surveillance mechanism of the host, using an affinity-purified SER. As shown in this study, SER, at microgram/ml concentrations, inhibits the T-cell proliferation induced with either monoclonal or polyclonal T-cell activators in vitro in human, and also inhibits the primary antibody response to T-dependent antigens in vivo in mice. Likewise, SER also inhibits the immunoglobulin synthesis of human B lymphocytes induced by a B-cell mitogen, pokeweed mitogen, in the presence of a tumour promoter, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). In contrast to the T-dependent antibody response in vivo in mice or T-dependent mitogen response in vitro in human, SER does not interfere with the T-independent antibody responses to DNP-Ficoll or TNP-LPS in mice. SER also interferes with the natural killer cell function of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Although SER inhibits the phagocytic functions of human peripheral neutrophils, it requires at least 10-20 times the concentration of SER present in normal human plasma. Since this concentration of SER is attainable in the sera of solid tumour-bearing patients, highly elevated levels of SER could predispose the patients to microbial infections as well. This study demonstrates that purified SER manifests multi-faceted down-regulatory effects on the defence mechanism of hosts, thereby it could compromise the patients' cell-mediated immunity in vivo.
Idiotype-specific T suppressor factor alternatively interacts with a nonspecific T-acceptor-like cell to mediate immune suppression.	The ability of the idiotype (Id)-specific second-order T suppressor factor (TsF2) to interact with a final effector Ts cell type other than the previously reported third-order Ts (Ts3) subset was studied in the phenyltrimethylamino (TMA) hapten system. Hence, mice were primed with unrelated heterologous haptens to induce the nonspecific T acceptor (Tacc) cells following published procedures. When enriched T cell populations containing these nonspecific Ts were briefly incubated in vitro with TMA-TsF2, they produced suppression upon adoptive transfer into cyclophosphamide-treated mice which had been previously immunized for TMA-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity. Despite the fact that the effector population studied in this report also required Id-binding TsF2 for its function, it differs markedly from the Ts3 subset studied previously in the TMA system. First, the cell type studied herein could be easily generated with noncrossreacting heterologous chemically reactive haptens when applied directly to the skin of mice. Furthermore, these Ts effector cells had no detectable intrinsic receptors for homologous haptens and most importantly, unlike Ts3, this population had no affinity for the TMA hapten. Nevertheless, the nonspecifically induced Ts once activated by TsF2 suppresses TMA-directed, but not similar immune responses specific for heterologous haptens. Thus the results indicate that TsF2 can functionally interact with a final effector Ts subset (very similar to the Tacc) other than the well described Ts3 population. The ramifications of these findings are discussed with reference to a generalized view of the cellular basis of terminal phases of immune suppression.
Immunization of DBA/2 mice with a T cell hybridoma-derived TsF increases immune resistance to the syngeneic tumors P815 and L1210.	The ability of a tumor-specific T suppressor factor (TsF) isolated from a T cell hybridoma, A10, to act as an immunogen in DBA/2 mice was investigated. The TsF was affinity purified from ascites over an immunoadsorbent column containing a monoclonal antibody (B16G) that has specificity for the TsF molecule, or over columns containing membrane extracts of the P815 mastocytoma (the tumor for which A10 is specific). The specificity control was BW5147 (the fusion partner for A10) membrane extracts treated in the same way as A10. DBA/2 mice were immunized with the affinity-purified material or PBS and were subsequently challenged with either the P815 tumor or the L1210 DBA/2 thymoma. When mice were immunized with material affinity purified over B16G, eluted material from both A10 ascites and BW5147 membrane extracts enhanced resistance to both P815 and L1210 challenge, indicating that B16G was binding immunogenic material derived from both preparations, which exerted a tumor-protective effect. However, when a P815 affinity column was used, protective material was eluted only from A10 ascites, and this bestowed resistance to both P815 and L1210. When irradiated whole cells were used as immunogens, only A10 cells stimulated anti-tumor immunity, and this appeared to be directed specifically to the P815 tumor. The implications of these findings in terms of the potential for immune modulation with anti-suppressor therapy, and the specificity of the B16G monoclonal, are discussed. The demonstration of B16G binding material (TsF) in the membranes (but not the ascites) of the BW5147 line is also of significance to investigators using BW5147 fused suppressor hybridomas.
Kupffer cells modulate natural killer cell activity in vitro by producing prostaglandins.	The effect of Kupffer cells on natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity was examined. Kupffer cells prepared from rat liver suppressed NK activity against K562 cells and other tumor cell lines through a soluble factor secreted into the culture supernatant. When human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were incubated with the Kupffer cell-culture supernatant, a significant reduction of the cytotoxic activity was observed in the 6-hr chromium-release assay. This activity was dose dependent and was evident at various effector/target cell ratios. Lipopolysaccharide stimulated generation of the suppressive factor released from Kupffer cells in a dose-dependent manner. Suppression of the NK activity was observed when the Kupffer cell-culture supernatant was present in the assay system, whereas pretreatment of effector/target cells with the supernatant had minimal inhibitory effects. Autologous monocytes in human peripheral mononuclear cells were not related to this suppression. The suppressive factor in the fraction had a molecular weight below 10,000. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, ameliorated the suppressive effects. These results suggest that Kupffer cells may modulate NK activity by producing PGs (E1, E2, and F2 alpha).
Early immunosuppression and implantation]	In this brief review, we recall the antigenic status of the embryo and the possible threats that the maternal immune system poses to fetal survival even at implantation stage. We then quickly recall the existence of Early Pregnancy Factor (EPF), the available data for early embryo derived suppressor and suppressor inducer molecules, point to the existence of cloned progesterone dependent T cell derived suppressor molecule, disquisite on immunoregulatory properties of tau interferons, and finish by dealing with Interleukin 10 and the TH1/TH2 balance concept.
Molecular basis of Trypanosoma cruzi-induced immunosuppression. Altered expression by activated human lymphocytes of molecules which regulate antigen recognition and progression through the cell cycle.	The mechanisms by which Trypanosoma cruzi causes dysfunction in normal human lymphocytes was studied by using an in vitro system in which purified parasites and normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells are co-cultured in the presence or absence of mitogens. Our results have shown that T. cruzi impairs the expression of receptors for interleukin-2 (IL-2R) and transferrin, activated lymphocyte membrane molecules which play key roles in controlling progression through the cell cycle. T. cruzi also downregulates the expression of constitutive lymphocyte molecules (e.g., CD4, and CD8) involved in the interactions between antigen-presenting cells and T lymphocytes as well as the expression of T cell receptor (TCR) and CD3 molecules. The latter molecular structures are physically associated and are responsible for signaling and transducing activation events resulting from antigen binding. Stimulated B lymphocytes also display reduced IL-2R expression in the presence of T. cruzi. In contrast, neither the expression of EA-1 molecules by T lymphocytes nor that of CD19 and CD20 molecules by B lymphocytes is affected by this parasite. Thus, the T. cruzi effects are selective, not indiscriminate. The activated T cell populations affected by T. cruzi show concomitant reductions in the levels of expression of IL-2R and CD4, IL-2R and CD8, IL-2R and CD3 or IL-2R and TCR as well as in their capacity to proliferate; 3H-thymidine uptake decreases and there is a massive arrest of cells at the G0/G1a phase of the cell cycle. The immunosuppressive effects of T. cruzi are reproduced by a protein molecule(s) released spontaneously by the parasite termed TIF (for trypanosomal immunosuppressive factor). We report herein that TIF does not compete with IL-2 for binding to IL-2R and that shedding of IL-2R is decreased in the presence of T. cruzi. Moreover, the intracellular level of IL-2R was found to be lower than that found in control cells cultured in the absence of parasites. These results suggest that suppressed IL-2R reflects a modification induced by T. cruzi at a time coinciding with or preceding IL-2R mRNA translation. Studies are underway to identify the earliest process targeted by T. cruzi.
Protective mucosal immunity elicited by targeted iliac lymph node immunization with a subunit SIV envelope and core vaccine in macaques.	Prevention of sexually transmitted HIV infection was investigated in macaques by immunization with a recombinant SIV (simian immunodeficiency virus) envelope gp 120 and core p27 vaccine. In two independent series of experiments, we used the novel targeted iliac lymph node (TILN) route of immunization, aiming close to the iliac lymph nodes draining the genitorectal mucosa. Rectal challenge with the SIVmac 32H J5 molecular clone in two series induced total protection in four out of seven macaques immunized by TILN, compared with infection in 13 of 14 unimmunized macaques or immunized by other routes (P = 0.025). The remaining three macaques showed either a decrease in viral load ( > 90%) or transient viremia, indicating that all seven TILN-immunized macaques showed total or partial protection (P = 0.001). Protection was associated with significant increase in the iliac lymph nodes of IgA antibody-secreting cells to p27 (P < 0.02), CD8-suppressor factor (P < 0.01), and the chemokines RANTES and MIP-1 beta (P < 0.01).
