The circadian system in Alzheimer's disease: disturbances, mechanisms, and opportunities.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative condition associated with severe cognitive and behavioral impairments. Circadian rhythms are recurring cycles that display periods of approximately 24 hours and are driven by an endogenous circadian timekeeping system centered on the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. We review the compelling evidence that circadian rhythms are significantly disturbed in AD and that such disturbance is of significant clinical importance in terms of behavioral symptoms. We also detail findings from neuropathological studies of brain areas associated with the circadian system in postmortem studies, the use of animal models of AD in the investigation of circadian processes, and the evidence that chronotherapeutic approaches aimed at bolstering weakened circadian rhythms in AD produce beneficial outcomes. We argue that further investigation in such areas is warranted and highlight areas for future research that might prove fruitful in ultimately providing new treatment options for this most serious and intractable of conditions.
The preoptic-suprachiasmatic nuclei though morphologically heterogeneous are equally affected by streptozotocin diabetes.	Pituitary and gonadal disorders consistent with abnormal LHRH and LH secretion occur in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. A key role in the synthesis and regulation of LHRH and in the phasic LH release is played by the preoptic-suprachiasmatic region which is mainly formed by the medial preoptic area, the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the medial preoptic area, and the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Therefore we have studied this region by morphology and morphometry in normal and streptozotocin-diabetic rats. In normal animals, the neurons of the above mentioned nuclei were morphologically and morphometrically dissimilar. Independent of their localization, reduced cytoplasmic and nuclear areas were observed in the neurons of diabetic animals. These lesions are consistent with hypotrophied neurons. Consequently, diabetes may impair both synthesis and regulation of LHRH and may therefore account for pituitary disorders, testicular atrophy, and lacking preovulatory LH peaks. The structural differences of the neurons of the three nuclei in normal animals underline their different physiological role. Yet, the similarity of the changes found in all three nuclei suggests a generalized hypofunction of the whole preoptic-suprachiasmatic region under diabetic condition.
Factors determining the restoration of circadian behavior by hypothalamic transplants.	The expression of locomotor activity by golden hamsters is temporally controlled by circadian oscillators contained within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). A genetic mutation has been found that alters the freerunning period of the locomotor activity rhythm from the wild-type value of approximately 24 hours to approximately 20 hours in homozygous mutants. It has been shown previously that a transplant of fetal hypothalamic tissue containing the SCN to a host rendered arrhythmic by a complete lesion of the SCN restores rhythmicity with the freerunning period which is normally expressed by the donor genotype. To investigate the mechanisms by which the SCN controls the temporal organization of behavior, we made partial lesions to the SCN of hosts of one genotype, and then placed hypothalamic implants from fetal donors of a different genotype into the lesion site. By varying the size of the host's partial SCN lesion and the duration of time between lesioning and transplantation, we have attempted to alter the relative amount of host and donor control over the expression of locomotor activity. We found that the expression of donor rhythmicity requires the presence of a lesion to the host SCN, and that the incidence of donor expression increased as a function of host SCN lesion size. Neither the duration of time between lesioning and transplantation, nor the location of the transplant within the third ventricle had independent effects on the incidence of donor rhythm expression; however, there was a strong suggestion of an effect of their interaction.
Effect of transplanting suprachiasmatic nuclei from donors of different ages into completely SCN lesioned hamsters.	The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals. Ralph and colleagues /14/ provided recent new evidence for this by transplanting SCNs between golden hamsters with different genetically determined periods and producing circadian rhythms of running wheel activity with periods characteristic of the donor. We have extended these studies in order to evaluate the age range of donor tissue that can be used for transplantation. SCN of hamsters from embryonic day 11 through postnatal day 12 can serve as functional grafts to restore rhythmicity to arrhythmic SCN lesioned animals. The time between SCN transplantation and onset of rhythmicity does not depend on the age of the donor. The presence of patches containing vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactive cells is a good indicator of graft success, while its absence is correlated with a lack of transplant effect. The 18 day span during which SCN tissue can be harvested for transplantation should expand the uses to which this technique can be put. Our results also suggest that it would be advantageous to examine the age range of neural tissue that can be used in other transplantation models.
Neurotoxic effects of neonatal injections of monosodium L-glutamate (L-MSG) on the retinal ganglion cell layer of the golden hamster: anatomical and functional consequences on the circadian system.	In rodents, daily injection of neurotoxic monosodium L-glutamate (MSG) during the postnatal period induces retinal lesions, optic nerve degeneration with an alteration of visual pathway and an absence of the b-wave in the electroretinogram. Despite this damage, electrophysiological responses subsist in the lateral geniculate bodies and synchronization of circadian rhythms to the light/dark cycle can still occur. Using two formal properties of the circadian system (entrainment and phase-shift by light), we assessed the functionality of retinal projections to the circadian clock in MSG-treated hamsters. Displaced amacrine and ganglion cell populations were quantified and retinal terminals in the suprachiasmatic nuclei were estimated. Animals received daily doses of glutamate during the first ten days after birth according to two protocols. The two treatments similarly destroyed 56% of the overall population of the ganglion cell layer: 30% of displaced amacrine and 89% of ganglion cells. Surviving ganglion neurons (7,500 cells) were evenly distributed across the entire retina except in one area of high cell density located in the temporoventral quadrant. Retinal projections of the "image-forming" pathway were drastically reduced in the dorsal lateral geniculate bodies, less in their ventral part. The "nonimage-forming" pathway was also affected since the volume of labeled terminals in the suprachiasmatic nuclei was reduced by one-half to one-third. Nevertheless, treated hamsters exhibited a free-running locomotor activity rhythm after several months in constant darkness, could be entrained by the light/dark cycle and phase-shifted by light pulses. These results suggest that a damaged retinohypothalamic tract can still assume the photic entrainment of the circadian clock.
Demonstration of retinal afferents in the RCS rat, with reference to the retinohypothalamic projection and suprachiasmatic nucleus.	In the Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat, characterized by inherited retinal dystrophy, retinal projections to the brain were studied using anterograde neuronal transport of cholera toxin B subunit upon injection into one eye. The respective immunoreactivity was found predominantly contralateral to the injection site in the lateral geniculate nucleus, superior colliculus, nucleus of the optic tract, medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic tract, and bilateral hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei. Although terminal density was somewhat reduced in dystrophic rats, the projection patterns in these animals appeared similar to those seen in their congenic controls and were comparable to the visual pathways described for the rat previously. In dystrophic rats, the number of cell bodies exhibiting immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, viz. a population of suprachiasmatic neurons receiving major retinohypothalamic input, was reduced by one-third, and some differences were observed in the termination pattern of the geniculohypothalamic tract, as revealed by immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y in the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Suprachiasmatic nucleus in the neural circuitry for the circadian elevation of intraocular pressure in rabbits.	Intraocular pressure (IOP) in light-dark entrained rabbits changes in a circadian pattern. Previous studies indicate that signals for the circadian IOP elevation in the early dark phase come from the central nervous system (CNS) via the ocular sympathetic nerves. Its neural circuitry in the CNS was totally unclear. In the present study, the role of the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the circuitry was investigated. Adult New Zealand albino rabbits were entrained in a daily 12 hr/12 hr light-dark cycle, and their circadian IOP elevations around the onset of dark were determined. Bilateral lesions of the suprachiasmatic nuclei were made by heat probe and verified by histology. Change in the circadian IOP elevation was monitored for up to 3 months. After the lesion, there was a significant reduction of the circadian IOP elevation for 2 weeks. Elevations in the plasma concentration of melatonin and the aqueous humor concentration of norepinephrine (NE) in the early dark phase were significantly reduced. When exposed to constant light, the residual circadian IOP elevation in the postoperative rabbits was further reduced to the level seen in intact rabbits exposed to constant light. In postoperative weeks 6-10, the circadian IOP elevation returned to the initial value. A full, inhibitory effect of constant light on the circadian IOP elevation was observed. In postoperative months 2-3, concentrations of plasma melatonin and aqueous humor NE regained the circadian pattern. These results indicate that the suprachiasmatic nucleus is in the neural circuitry which propagates the circadian elevation of IOP in rabbits.
