Solute-solvent interactions in micellar electrokinetic chromatography. Characterization of sodium dodecyl sulfate-Brij 35 micellar systems for quantitative structure-activity relationship modelling.	The solvation parameter model has been applied to the characterization of micellar electrokinetic chromatographic (MEKC) systems with mixtures of sodium dodecyl sulfate and Brij 35 as surfactant. The variation in MEKC surfactant composition results in changes in the coefficients of the correlation equation, which in turns leads to information on solute-solvent and solute-micelle interactions. Since the same solvation model can be used to describe many biological processes, particular MEKC surfactant compositions can be selected that model the solute-solvent interactions of some of these processes. Two different MEKC systems have been selected to model the solute-solvent interactions of two processes of biological interest (octanol-water partition and tadpole narcosis).
Capillary electrophoresis sodium dodecyl sulfate nongel sieving analysis of a therapeutic recombinant monoclonal antibody: a biotechnology perspective.	With the increasing interest in the therapeutic use of recombinant monoclonal antibodies (rMAbs), a generic analytical approach for the analysis of size-based rMAb variants is desired. Such a method using capillary electrophoresis (CE) with laser-induced fluorescence detection is described. The assay was developed as a replacement for silver-stained SDS-PAGE and was validated according to the guidelines of the International Committee on Harmonization for use in routine lot release testing of a rMAb pharmaceutical. In this assay, the rMAb solution is first derivatized with a neutral fluorophore, e.g., 5-carboxytetramethylrhodamine succinimidyl ester. The labeled sample is then incubated with SDS, and the SDS-protein complexes are then separated by CE using a hydrophilic polymer as a sieving matrix. The precolumn labeling conditions described in this study allowed the detection of rMAb at a low-nanomolar concentration (9 ng/mL), with no apparent loss in resolution or changes to the distribution of rMAb analyte species, when compared to an unlabeled sample. In addition, the traditional practice of heating proteins at elevated temperatures in the presence of SDS to facilitate SDS-protein binding resulted in the generation of significant levels of rMAb fragmentation, and alternative conditions to minimize this artifact are discussed. Illustrations of the uses of this assay in monitoring consistency of bulk manufacture of a protein pharmaceutical, and in providing a size-based separation of product-related variants, as well as nonproduct impurities are shown. In brief, the assay described in this paper demonstrated comparable resolution and sensitivity to silver-stained SDS-PAGE but offered the advantages of enhanced precision and robustness, speed, ease of use, and on-line detection.
Regulation of catalytic properties of enzymes in "inverse micelles"]	A triple system (inverse micellae) that simulates the membrane environment of the enzyme was studied. Inverse micellae were obtained using anionic (aerosol OT), synthetic (Brij 56), and natural (lecithin) surfactants. It was found that upon inclusion of an enzyme into inverse micellae, its activity can be regulated by changing the structure and nature of the surfactant matrix. It was shown that enzyme activity in micellar environment is much higher than in water solution. Moreover, the enzyme solubilized in inverse micellae (acid phosphatase) shows a superactivity. It was found that surfactants specifically interact with solubilized enzyme, and the activity of the enzyme is inversely proportional to surfactant concentration. The mechanisms of viscotropic regulation of enzyme activity are discussed.
Antigen retrieval in cells and tissues: enhancement with sodium dodecyl sulfate.	Immunocytochemistry provides important information on the localization of antigens in cells and tissues. However, the procedures used to prepare cells and tissues for immunocytochemical labeling may have deleterious effects on the results achieved. That is, the antigen of interest may be difficult or impossible to detect following labeling. These sorts of observations have led to the concept of antigen masking in which the antigen (or specific epitope) is hidden from antibodies specific for that antigen (or epitope). Various procedures to circumvent this problem have been developed. These different procedures generally fit under the term "antigen retrieval" (or epitope retrieval). The practice of antigen retrieval is widely employed with paraffin-embedded material. Antigen retrieval is less often applied to cells and tissues that are not embedded in paraffin. However, in the latter preparations there are situations in which the observed immunolabeling achieved falls short of expectations. This poor level of immunolabeling may, in some situations, be improved upon with antigen retrieval procedures. In this review, we describe experimental situations in which immunolabeling fell short of expectations. We also describe a procedure that has been useful in enhancing immunolabeling efficiency in these cases. The major feature of this procedure is the incorporation of a permeabilization/denaturation step using sodium dodecyl sulfate. This postfixation and prelabeling step dramatically improves immunolabeling for a number of antigens in both cells and cryosections of tissue.
Reverse micelles and protein biotechnology.	Reverse micelles are nanometer-sized (1-10 nm) water droplets dispersed in organic media obtained by the action of surfactants. Surfactant molecules organize with the polar part to the inner side able to solubilize water and the apolar part in contact with the organic solvent. Proteins can be solubilized in the water pool of reverse micelles. Studies on the structure-function relationships of proteins in reverse micelles are very important since the microenvironment in which the protein is solubilized has physico-chemical properties distinct from a bulk aqueous solution. Some of the unique characteristics of reverse micelles make them very useful for biotechnological applications. Charge and hydrophilic/hydrophobic characteristics of the protein and the selection of surfactant can be used to achieve selective solubilization of proteins. This has been used to extend the classical liquid-liquid extraction with solvents to protein bioseparation. For biocatalysis the presence of a bulk organic solvent allow synthetic reactions to be performed via the control of water content and the solubilization of hydrophobic substrates. This is accomplished with a higher interfacial area (about 100 m2/mL) than the conventional biphasic systems, minimizing mass transfer problems.
Emulsion spray-drying for the preparation of albumin-loaded PLGA microspheres.	The purpose of this work was to study the encapsulation of bovine serum albumin (BSA) in polylactide-co-glycolide (PLGA) microspheres using an emulsion/ spray-drying method. Albumin was dissolved in an aqueous phase (w) in the presence of surfactant and emulsified in an organic phase containing the polymer (o). To stabilize the emulsion, different types of surfactant (Pluronic F68, Pluronic F127, sodium oleate, dioctylsulfosuccinate) were added to the aqueous phase. The w/o emulsion was spray-dried to obtain BSA-loaded PLGA microspheres. The effect of type of surfactant on microsphere characteristics was evaluated. The microspheres were characterized for their morphology by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and granulometric analysis; drug content determination and in vitro dissolution tests were performed. Results showed that the emulsion/spray-drying method is suitable for obtaining small microparticles (2-5 micron) characterized by high drug payloads (70%-80% encapsulation efficiency). The type of surfactant affects the microsphere shape and BSA release
Morphology and structure of microcapsules prepared by interfacial polycondensation of methylene bis(phenyl isocyanate) with hexamethylene diamine.	Polyurea microcapsules containing 2- chloro-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)-N-(methoxymethyl) acetamide as the active agent were prepared by the method of interfacial polycondensation with methylene bis(phenyl isocyanate) the multifunctional isocyanatae, hexamethylene diamine as the diamine, and anionic (SLS) as the emulsifying sodium lignin liinin the agent. The internal structure and morphology of the microcapsules were examined with transmission electron microscopy. The microcapsules had a micro-reservoir structure in which the wall extended well into the core and the active agent was accomodated by the micro-reservoirs, distributed uniformly throughout the entire volume of a microcapsule. Based on the observed morphology, permeability of the water soluble monomer in the polyurea film and its solubility in the oil phase have a significant effect on the morphology and microstructure of the microcapsules. The multivalent salt, calcium chloride, plays a significant role in stabilizing the microcapsule structure, by interacting with the anionic surfactant SLS, and physically crosslinks the SLS chains, by interacting with the negatively charged carboxylic and phenolic groups, with subsequent phase separation of the physically crosslinked chains to form a concentrated gel phase. This gel phase encompasses the microcapsule, increases the stability, and modifies its release behaviour.
High-speed microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography.	In previous reports of microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography (MEEKC), analysis times were typically in the order of 10 min as high-ionic strength buffers were used. These buffers produced high currents which limit the voltages which can be applied, therefore, analysis times could not be reduced. The primary cause of the high-ionic strength is the relatively high concentrations of surfactants required to form the microemulsion. The surfactant concentration can be lower when using an oil with a smaller surface tension. This preliminary study showed that migration times in MEEKC can be reduced to below 1 min by using a combination of an optimum microemulsion composition, high voltage, high temperature, short capillaries by injecting via the "short end", or by simultaneously applying pressure and voltage. Long injection sequences and quantitation were found to be possible with minimum buffer depletion effects.
Efficacies of vesicular and free sodium stibogluconate formulations against clinical isolates of Leishmania donovani.	In this study, the in vitro and in vivo efficacies of free sodium stibogluconate (SSG) and a nonionic surfactant vesicular formulation of SSG (SSG-NIV) against a laboratory strain of Leishmania donovani (MHOM/ET/67:LV82) and different clinical isolates of L. donovani were determined. Treatment with SSG-NIV was more effective against intramacrophage amastigotes than treatment with SSG. In vivo murine studies showed that there was interstrain variability in the infectivity of the different L. donovani strains, with two of the strains (20001 and 20003) giving low parasite burdens. In addition, interstrain variability in the antileishmanial efficacy of SSG in a single dose containing 300 mg of Sb(V)/kg of body weight was observed. This dose of free drug either caused a >97% reduction in liver parasite burdens or had no significant effect on parasite burdens compared with the result with the respective control. In some instances, treatment with this free SSG dose also caused a significant reduction in spleen (strain 20006) or bone marrow (strains 20001 and 20009) parasite burdens. Treatment with SSG-NIV was more effective than that with SSG against all of the strains tested. In SSG-responsive strains, the reduction in liver parasite burdens by SSG-NIV treatment was similar to that caused by free SSG. In SSG-nonresponsive strains, SSG-NIV treatment caused at least a 95% reduction in liver parasite burdens. Overall, these results indicate that the use of a vesicular formulation of SSG is likely to increase its clinical efficacy against visceral leishmaniasis.
In situ measurement of the displacement of protein films from the air/water interface by surfactant.	The displacement of spread protein films from the air/water interface by surfactant was followed using Brewster angle microscopy (BAM) and interfacial rheology. The displacement of beta-lactoglobulin and beta-casein by a nonionic surfactant was monitored as a function of both surface pressure and time. In both cases, protein displacement occurred over the same surface pressure range that had been observed previously by atomic force microscopy (AFM). In the case of the beta-lactoglobulin, surfactant domains grew large enough in the protein film to be visible in the BAM images. The shapes of the domains were very similar to those seen previously by AFM in the late stages of displacement. The results from both proteins confirm the results published previously while highlighting some implications for the application of the "orogenic" model of displacement for large protein films. The surface rheological data showed that the beta-lactoglobulin/surfactant mixed film retained much of its elasticity until the latter stages of displacement. This indicates that at least in the early stages of displacement, the mixed film was dominated by the behavior of the protein in the film.
Requirements for non-food applications of pea proteins. A review.	So far, limited research is performed on technical applications of pea proteins and no applications have yet been reported. At ATO, three technical applications were investigated: surfactants, films, and microspheres as encapsulation matrices. Pea protein hydrolysates are surfactants with good emulsifying and foaming properties. By variation of enzyme type and degree of hydrolysis, the surfactant properties can be tailored toward specific applications. Pea protein films could be prepared by casting from dispersions at pH 7 and 10, and by compression moulding at 140 degrees C. Opposite to many other proteins, pea protein films combine strength (5-7.5 MPa) with high elongation at break (150%). A protein isolate derived from peas was applied as matrix material for the microencapsulation of beta-carotene, intended for cosmetic applications. Supercritical CO2 technology appeared to be a promising encapsulation technique for beta-carotene in porous pea protein microspheres. Advantages of this method are that no organic solvents are used, and that encapsulation is achieved under mild conditions, thereby preventing the sensitive beta-carotene from degradation.
Positive end-expiratory pressure after a recruitment maneuver prevents both alveolar collapse and recruitment/derecruitment.	We tested the hypothesis that collapsed alveoli opened by a recruitment maneuver would be unstable or recollapse without adequate positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) after recruitment. Surfactant deactivation was induced in pigs by Tween instillation. An in vivo microscope was placed on a lung area with significant atelectasis and the following parameters measured: (1) the number of alveoli per field and (2) alveolar stability (i.e., the change in alveolar size from peak inspiration to end expiration). We previously demonstrated that unstable alveoli cause lung injury. A recruitment maneuver (peak pressure = 45 cm H2O, PEEP = 35 cm H2O for 1 minute) was applied and alveolar number and stability were measured. Pigs were then separated into two groups with standard ventilation plus (1) 5 PEEP or (2) 10 PEEP and alveolar number and stability were again measured. The recruitment maneuver opened a significant number of alveoli, which were stable during the recruitment maneuver. Although both 5 PEEP and 10 PEEP after recruitment demonstrated improved oxygenation, alveoli ventilated with 10 PEEP were stable, whereas alveoli ventilated with 5 PEEP showed significant instability. This suggests recruitment followed by inadequate PEEP permits unstable alveoli and may result in ventilator-induced lung injury despite improved oxygenation.
Rat enterocytes secrete SLPs containing alkaline phosphatase and cubilin in response to corn oil feeding.	Surfactant-like particles (SLP) are unilamellar secreted membranes associated with the process of lipid absorption and isolated previously only from the apical surface of enterocytes. In this paper, the intracellular membrane has been isolated from corn oil-fed animals, identified by its content of the marker protein intestinal alkaline phosphatase (IAP). Another brush-border protein, cubilin, and its anchoring protein megalin have been identified as components of extracellular SLP, but only cubilin is present to any extent in intracellular SLP. During fat absorption, IAP is modestly enriched in intracellular SLP, but full-length cubilin (migrating at 210 kDa in fat-fed mucosal fractions) falls by one-half, although fragments of cubilin are abundant in the intracellular SLP. Both IAP and cubilin colocalize to the same cells during corn oil absorption and colocalize around lipid droplets. This localization is more intense during feeding of corn oil with Pluronic L-81, a detergent that allows uptake of fatty acids and monoglycerides from the lumen, but blocks chylomicron secretion. Confocal microscopy confirms the colocalization of IAP and the ligand for cubilin, intrinsic factor. Possible roles for cubilin in intracellular SLP include facilitating movement of the lipid droplet through the cell and binding to the basolateral membrane before reverse endocytosis.
Accelerated biodegradation of petroleum hydrocarbon waste.	Conventional landfarming approaches to bioremediation of refinery and other petroleum sludges are not acceptable environmentally and are banned in most North American jurisdictions. While initial bioreactor-based systems for treatment of these sludges required batch-cycle process-times of 1-3 months, an accelerated process has now been developed which can be completed in 10-12 days. In this process, up to 99% of total petroleum hydrocarbons are degraded and the sludges are converted from hazardous to non-hazardous according to the United States EPA's toxicity characteristic leachate procedure criteria. Understanding and exploiting mechanisms to improve hydrocarbon accession to the degrading microorganisms was a key development component of the process. Contrasting physiological mechanisms were observed for different component organisms of the mixed culture with respect to their associations with the hydrocarbon substrate; and the beneficial effects of using surfactants were demonstrated. The mixed culture used in the process exhibited a capacity for high-rate degradation of volatile organic carbons and the potential use of the culture as a liquid biofilter was demonstrated. The culture was also effective as an inoculant for the bioaugmentation of total petroleum hydrocarbon-contaminated soil and as a de-emulsifier of oilfield emulsions and could transform some other environmental contaminants which are not predominant components of crude oil.
Mechanistic studies on the separation of cations in zwitterionic ion chromatography.	Electrostatic ion chromatography, also known as zwitterionic ion chromatography, has been predominantly used for the analysis of anions. Consequently, separation mechanisms proposed for this technique have been based on anion retention data obtained using a sulfobetaine-type surfactant-coated column. A comprehensive cation retention data set has been obtained on a C18 column coated with the zwitterionic surfactant N-tetradecylphosphocholine (which has the negatively and positively charged functional groups reversed in comparison to the sulfobetaine surfactants), with mobile phases being varied systematically in the concentration and species of both the mobile-phase anion and cation. A retention mechanism based on both an ion exclusion effect and a direct (chaotropic) interaction with the inner negative charge on the zwitterion is proposed for the retention of cations. Despite the relatively low chaotropic nature of cations compared with anions, the retention data shows that cations are retained in this system predominantly due to a chaotropic interaction with the inner charge, analogous to anions in a system where the C18 column is coated with a sulfobetaine-type surfactant. The retention of an analyte cation, and the effect of the mobile-phase anion and cation, can be predicted by the relative positions of these species on the Hofmeister (chaotropic) series.
Modification of ion chromatographic separations by ionic and nonionic surfactants.	New findings are reported on simple ways to modify an ordinary HPLC column to obtain efficient ion chromatographic (IC) separations. Permanently coating a column with an ionic surfactant is known to produce an effective column for IC. We now show that incorporation of a nonionic surfactant in the coating, or coating in separate layers, results in a dramatic reduction of ion retention times and gives sharper peaks. Dynamic coating by incorporating a small amount of an alcohol, diol or zwitterion in the aqueous mobile phase permits good separations of alkanecarboxylic acids. A mobile phase containing a quaternary ammonium cation and a zwitterion anion provides excellent separations of common anions on a silica C18 column. An aqueous eluent containing a mixture of a zwitterion 4-(2-hydroxyethyl) acid and methanesulfonic acid can be used in conjunction with a standard cation exchange column. After passing through a membrane suppressor, the mobile phase has a slightly acidic pH, permitting divalent transition metal ions (as well as others) to be detected by conductivity.
Quantitation of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in human plasma by micellar electrokinetic chromatography.	A reliable micellar electrokinetic chromatographic method for the determination of oxcarbazepine and its two main metabolites, 10-hydroxycarbamazepine and 10,11-trans-dihydroxy-10,11-dihydroxycarbamazepine, in human plasma was developed. The separation and determination of the analytes was achieved using a system consisting of 60 mM SDS in phosphate buffer (30 mM, pH 8.0), to which 20% (v/v) methanol was added. Separation was carried out in an uncoated fused-silica capillary with a separation voltage of 25 kV and currents typically less than 40 microA. Spectrophotometric detection was at 205 nm. Isolation of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites from plasma was accomplished by a solid-phase extraction procedure. The mean extraction yield of the analytes from plasma was higher than 94%. The linear correlation coefficients were better than 0.994 for all analytes. The limit of detection was 0.05 microg/mL, the limit of quantitation 0.15 microg/mL. The repeatability for the spiked blank plasma samples was lower than 1.9% and the intermediate precision lower than 2.1%, both expressed as RSD%. The results obtained analysing real plasma samples from epileptic patients under therapy with Tolep were satisfactory in terms of precision, accuracy and detectability.
Identification of Candida dubliniensis strains using heat tolerance tests, morphological characteristics and molecular methods]	Described in 1995, Candida dubliniensis is a novel Candida species closely related to Candida albicans due primarily to its ability to produce germ tube and chlamydospores. Given these phenotypic similarities between the two species, C. dubliniensis cannot be readily distinguished from Candida albicans by routine laboratory work-up. We explored the frequency of isolation of C. dubliniensis among 213 strains previously defined as C. albicans based on their ability to produce germ tube. The test isolates were initially examined for their morphological features on cornmeal tween 80 agar, inability to grow at 45 degrees C, and the biochemical assimilation profile (ID 32C system, bioMerieux, France). Among all, 2 (0.9%) of the isolates were identified as C. dubliniensis based on the production of numerous chlamydospores in chains on cornmeal tween 80 agar and the lack of growth at 45 degrees C. The assimilation profile of these isolates was found to be in accordance with this identification. In an effort to confirm the identification, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) studies were carried out by using the C. dubliniensis specific primer set, DUBF and DUBR. Both of the isolates yielded C. dubliniensis-specific 288 base pair amplification products, confirming the previous identification obtained with the initial screening tests. The isolates were found to be susceptible to fluconazole and itraconazole, and generated amphotericin B minimal inhibitory concentrations of 0.5-1 microgram/ml by NCCLS M27-A2 microdilution method. These data suggest that the isolation rate of C. dubliniensis among our clinical isolates is low. The morphological features on cornmeal tween 80 agar and the lack of ability to grow at 45 degrees C appear as reliable, cheap, and practical screening tests in initial identification of C. dubliniensis among germ tube-producing Candida strains.
Determination of esterase activity of Candida varieties]	This study was performed to determine the esterase activity of Candida species and to search the usefulness of tween 80 opacity test for the identification. Totally 124 Candida strains (66 C. albicans, 25 C. tropicalis, 14 C. parapsilosis, 10 C. glabrata, 3 C. krusei, 2 C. kefyr, 2 C. guilliermondii, 1 C. lusitaniae, 1 C. rugosa) isolated from various clinical specimens were included in this study. Tween 80 opacity test was applied to the strains and the plates were evaluated after incubation at 30 degrees C for ten days, by examining daily, for the presence of an opaque zone. As a result, 63 of (%95) of C. albicans, 23 of (93%) C. tropicalis, 8 of (57%) of C. parapsilosis and 1 (10%) of C. glabrata strains were found positive for esterase activity, whereas the other strains were found negative. It can be concluded that, tween 80 opacity test is a simple and economical method and may be useful as a supplementary test for the identification of Candida species, by detecting esterase activities which have arised on different days.
Effect of temperature and surfactant on the control release of microencapsulated dye in lecithin liposomes. I.	The objective of our work has been the microencapsulation of dyes with lecithin from soybean, with the formation of liposomes, as a substitute for synthetic auxiliaries so as to improve the quality of the effluent. Current scenarios promote the disintegration and leakage of the liposomes, such as, changes in temperature, pH and the use of surfactants. Since dyeing process is a mix of all these parameters, we pretended to study each one separately. Rhodamine 6G fluorescence is known to be concentration quenched through the formation of non-fluorescent dimmers and, additionally, through the energy transfer from rhodamine monomer to these dimmers (Baptista ALF, Coutinho PJG, Real Oliveira MECD, Gomes JINR. Proceedings of 13th International Symposium of Surfactants, SIS 2000, Gainesville, USA, 2000). The temperature, the surfactant and pH induce a release of the encapsulated dye resulting in rhodamine dilution and consequently alterations in the dimerization/binding equilibrium. The experimental spectra indicate that rhodamine binds almost completely to liposomes. The decomposition of the rhodamine fluorescence spectra allowed us to determine the percentage of released dye during a simulated dyeing process, and allowed us to conclude that the dimerization process occurs mainly at the inner interfaces. The amount of dye released induced by temperature changes was greater in the presence of surfactant.
Study of solid lipid nanoparticles with respect to particle size distribution and drug loading.	This work deals with the formulation and development of Solid Lipid Nanoparticles (SLN) using pressure homogenization technique, nimesulide being used as the model drug. Main emphasis of the work was to study the effect of individual process parameters (homogenization pressure and homogenization cycles) and formulation parameters (lipid concentration and surfactant concentration) on particle size distribution and drug loading. Particle size distribution data indicate that by optimizing the homogenization process and formulation parameters it is possible to produce SLN within a desired size range as required for carrier mediated drug targeting. Approaches to improve drug loading efficiency indicate that drug loading was higher in case of SLN prepared from glyceryl beheanate, palmitostearate and glyceryl tristearate + span 60 as compared to monoacid triglyceride (MAT) tristearate. Thermal analysis by differential scanning calorimetry of the drug loaded SLN indicates the solid nature of the lipid carrier as required for sustained drug release.
Poloxamer 407-induced atherosclerosis in mice appears to be due to lipid derangements and not due to its direct effects on endothelial cells and macrophages.	Coronary heart disease secondary to atherosclerosis is still the leading cause of death in the US. Animal models used for elucidating the pathogenesis of this disease primarily involve rabbits and pigs. Previous studies from this laboratory have demonstrated intraperitoneal injections of poloxamer 407 (P-407) in both male and female mice will lead to hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis, suggesting the use of this polymer to develop a mouse model of atherosclerosis. In order to understand the mechanism of P-407-induced hyperlipidemia and vascular lesion formation, we evaluated the direct effects of P-407 on endothelial cell and macrophage functions in vitro, and its in vivo effects on the oxidation of circulating lipids following long-term (4 month) administration. Our results demonstrated that incubation of P-407 with human umbilical vein endothelial cells in culture did not influence either cell proliferation or interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 production over a concentration range of 0-40 microM. In addition, nitric oxide production by macrophages was not affected by P-407 over a concentration range of 0-20 microM. Finally, we demonstrated that while P-407 could not induce the oxidation of LDL-C in vitro, long-term (4 month) administration of P-407 in mice resulted in elevated levels of oxidized lipids in the plasma. Thus, it is suggested that the formation of atherosclerotic lesions in this mouse model of atherosclerosis does not result from either direct stimulation of endothelial cells or macrophage activation by P-407. Instead, these data would support the premise that oxidation of lipids (perhaps low-density lipoprotein cholesterol) by an indirect mechanism following injection of P-407 may represent one of the mechanisms responsible for atheroma formation.
Diminished arachidonic acid metabolite release by bovine alveolar macrophages exposed to surface-modified silica.	Modification of the silica surface has been shown to reduce its cytotoxicity in vitro and its fibrogenic activity in vivo. We have shown silica to be a potent stimulator of arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism in bovine alveolar macrophages (BAM). To determine the effect of surface-modified silica on AA metabolism in BAM, we exposed BAM in vitro to silica treated with aluminum lactate or polyvinylpyridine-N-oxide (PVPNO). BAM were prelabeled with [3H]AA and incubated with 3 and 5 mg of silica. Unmodified silica at these doses elicited maximal AA metabolite release from BAM. AA metabolites were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. Lactate dehydrogenase release was quantitated to determine the cytotoxicity of treated and untreated silica on BAM. Treating silica with aluminum lactate or PVPNO significantly (P less than or equal to 0.05) reduced 5-lipoxygenase metabolite release and significantly (P less than or equal to 0.05) increased cyclooxygenase metabolite release. These changes in AA metabolite release were accompanied by a significant (P less than or equal to 0.05) reduction in the cytotoxicities of the treated silicas compared with untreated silica. Our results suggest that the reduced inflammatory and fibrogenic activity of surface-modified silica may in part be due to reduced AA metabolite release from exposed macrophages.
Study on homogeneous BCG suspensions prepared with tween 80.	The authors describe a new and simple method of preparing homogeneous suspensions of BCG from Sauton cultures by the chemical action of Tween 80. Higher concentrations of bacterial suspensions were obtained with this method than with any other methods employed up to the present. The harmful effect exerted on living bacilli and the decrease in viability during preservation were slighter in the vaccine prepared with Tween 80 than in that prepared by the ordinary grinding method.
The effects of surfactants on the permeability of isolated perfused fish gills to urea.	1. The diffusional transfer capacity of [14C]urea in isolated perfused trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) gills in the presence of sodium n-dodecylsulphate (SDS), n-dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide (DTAB) and p-t-octylbenzene oxyethylene10 (Triton X-100) has been measured over a range of surfactant concentrations. 2. Urea has been shown to be transported transcellularly through the respiratory cells of the gill secondary lamellae by passive diffusion. Each surfactant was found to markedly increase the rate of diffusion and the diffusional transfer capacity reached a steady-state at a particular surfactant concentration. 3. The steady state flux was increased by surfactant in the sequence DTAB greater than SDS greater than Triton X-100 and the surfactant concentrations in terms of the critical micelle concentration (CMC) at which the diffusional transfer capacities reached limiting values were 0.92 x CMC (SDS), 0.53 x CMC (DTAB) and 2.5 x CMC (Triton X-100). 4. Compared to interactions between isolated epithelial cells and the surfactants, the rates at which the surfactants changed the urea flux were slow, suggesting that the mucus layer plays a significant role in protecting the epithelial cells of the secondary lamellae from disruption. 5. Relative to the other surfactants, DTAB had the most marked effect on both the rate of flux change and on the magnitude of the change, at concentrations which are low relative to the CMC, suggesting a more specific interaction with the negatively charged mucus layer consistent with the toxic effects of quaternary ammonium compounds on aquatic organisms.
Bioseparation using affinity techniques.	Bioseparation of proteins from dilute solutions using different novel affinity procedures is reviewed. Emphasis is also placed on the quality of the product separated. Whenever possible, physical insights into the separation procedure are provided, besides indicating suitable directions where appropriate further research may be carried out. The procedures analyzed are different affinity chromatographic techniques, affinity separation using liquid perfluorocarbon supports, water soluble nonionic surfactants for affinity bioseparations, affinity cross-flow filtration, bioaffinity separation using reversed micelles, affinity precipitation and dual-functional affinity protein purification.
Application of a recycle dialysis system in a reversed micellar reactor.	A recycle dialysis stirred cell has been successfully used for integrating the reaction and product recovery of the lipase-catalyzed hydrolysis of olive oil in bis(2-ethylhexyl) sodium sulfosuccinate (AOT)-iso-octane reversed micelles. The resistance of membrane to reversed micelles was monitored by the water content and found to be 95.9% rejection after 24 h and 93.4% rejection after 48 h. The resistance of the membrane to free surfactants, by monitoring the UV absorption, was found to be 98.5% rejection after 10 h and 97.3% rejection after 24 h. Mathematical formulations involving the enzymatic reaction coupled with mass transfer were developed for predicting the performance of a membrane reactor. Theoretical predictions in terms of time course of oleic acid concentrations were found to be in agreement with the experimental results.
NATURE OF THE LABILE IMMUNOGENIC SUBSTANCE IN THE PARTICULATE FRACTION ISOLATED FROM MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS.	Youmans, Anne S. (Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Ill.), and Guy P. Youmans. Nature of the labile immunogenic substance in the particulate fraction isolated from Mycobacterium tuberculosis. J. Bacteriol. 88:1030-1037. 1964.-Deoxyribonuclease had no effect on the immunogenic activity of the labile particulate fraction isolated from ruptured viable cells of the H37Ra strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but decreased the ropiness of the ruptured cellular mass. Ribonuclease, in a high concentration, decreased the immunogenic activity slightly. Addition of yeast ribonucleic acid to particulate fraction incubated at 37 C prevented the decrease in immunogenic activity which normally occurs at this temperature, suggesting that endogenous ribonuclease may be involved in the reduction of activity. Differential centrifugation by the use of Brodie's (1962) method showed that the particles which sedimented at 56,550 x g were immunogenically active. Experiments were done to determine whether the integrity of the structure of the particle was necessary for immunogenic activity. It was found that sonic oscillation, freezing and thawing several times, the addition of surface-active agents (sodium lauryl sulfate or deoxycholate), and preparation of the particulate fraction in hypotonic solutions either decreased or destroyed immunogenic activity. This strengthens the evidence that a structural unit is necessary for activity. In addition, both a waxy sediment and the smallest particles which sedimented only at 144,000 x g were highly immunogenic if incorporated into Freund's incomplete adjuvant. In the absence of adjuvant, neither produced any immunity.
THE IDENTIFICATION AND ISOLATION OF TWO MOUSE-TOXIC PROTEIN COMPONENTS IN EXTRACTS FROM PASTEURELLA PESTIS.	The toxin activity of Pasteurella pestis cells, strain "Tjiwidej," was found to be associated with two proteins. Using a disc electrophoresis technique in conjunction with mouse lethality, two toxic proteins were isolated exhibiting intraperitoneal LD(50)'s of less than 1.0 to 1.5 microg protein. Each produced a single characteristic precipitin band on agar gel diffusion plates. The slower migrating toxin in gel diffusion or disc electrophoresis was designated as toxin A. It was shown to be sensitive to deoxycholate and digitonin, did not accumulate in 5-fluorotryptophan treated cells, and was associated with the membrane fraction of the cell. The faster migrating toxin B, apparently is resistant to surface-active agents, and is not affected by treatment of cells with 5-fluorotryptophan. Toxin B is associated with the soluble or cytoplasmic fraction of the cell. This evidence suggested that each toxin represented a distinctly different molecular species. The possibility is discussed that toxin B is synonymous with the murine toxin previously isolated by paper curtain electrophoresis which revealed only one antigen band in the Oudin precipitin reaction.
Characterization of surfactin from Bacillus subtilis for application as an agent for enhanced oil recovery.	Surfactin produced by Bacillus subtilis (ATCC 21332) was used to examine the effect of altering salt concentration, pH, and temperature on surfactin activity (as measured by reductions in surface tension). These parameters are some of the conditions that define oil reservoir characteristics and can affect the application of surfactants. The Biotechnology for Oilfield Operations research program at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) has successfully produced surfactin from potato process effluents for possible use as an economical alternative to chemical surfactants for improved oil recovery. Surfactants enhance the recovery of oil through a reduction of the interfacial tension between the oil and water interfaces, or by mediating changes in the wettability index of the system. We investigated changes in surfactin activity under a range of conditions by measuring surface tension. Surface tension was determined using video image analysis of inverted pendant drops. Experimental variables included NaCl (0-10%), pH (3.0-10.0), and temperature (21-70 degrees C). Each of these parameters, as well as selected combinations, resulted in discrete changes in surfactin activity. It is therefore important to consider the exploration of the studied surfactin as an enhanced oil recovery agent.
Surface and aggregate properties of an amphiphilic derivative of carboxymethylchitosan.	A new kind of amphiphilic derivative of carboxymethylchitosan, a group of (2-hydroxyl-3-butoxyl)propylcarboxymethylchitosans (HBP-CMCHS), has been synthesized, and the surface and aggregate properties have been studied by means of surface tension, surface pressure and fluorescence measurements. HBP-CMCHS can adsorb on the surface to decrease the surface tension of the solution. The adsorption film was quite stable, which can make the relative compressed pressure increase dramatically with the decrease of the surface area. In solution, hydrophobic aggregations were identified by the decrease in the ratio of the fluorescence emission intensity of the first and third pyrene vibronic peaks ( I(1)/ I(3)). Results showed that the aggregation began to form at a concentration similar to that of the polymer transfer to the air-water interface. Aggregate formation of the polymers is a gradually compact process with hydrophobic associations. Increase of DS and addition of NaCl to the HBP-CMCHS solution can make the surface tension decrease, make the aggregation occur at lower concentration, and make the aggregation more hydrophobic.
Micellar electrokinetic chromatographic screening method for common sexual assault drugs administered in beverages.	Recently, much attention has been given to benzodiazepines and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) related compounds owing to their alleged widespread use as date-rape drugs. Toxicologists would greatly benefit from a screening method that allows for the simultaneous detection of both groups of substances. A new capillary electrophoresis (CE) method has been developed in the micellar mode to accomplish this separation in under 16 min using a sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)/sodium tetraborate/boric acid buffer with an acetonitrile organic modifier. Optimization of SDS and organic modifier concentration, along with pH, were performed on a set of standards containing eight benzodiazepines, GHB, gamma-butyrolactone, and the internal standard, sulfanilic acid. The method was shown to have a detection limit of less than 2 microg/ml for five out of eight benzodiazepines with a linear range of 2.5-100 microg/ml. The detection limit for GHB was 32 mg/ml with a linear range to 2500 microg/ml. This method was applied to the rapid analysis of spiked beverages. GHB spiked beverages were monitored after using a series of simple dilutions to determine the effects of time on the drug analysis. Possible interfering peaks from drugs of abuse and artifacts from a variety of different drink combinations were also studied in detail. A one-step liquid-liquid extraction was the only necessary sample pretreatment.
Surfactant activity of a naphthalene degrading Bacillus pumilus strain isolated from oil sludge.	We studied the growth, biosurfactant activities and petroleum hydrocarbon compounds utilisation of strain 28-11 isolated from a solid waste oil. The isolate was identified as Bacillus pumilus. It grew well in the presence of 0.1% (w/v) of crude oil and naphthalene under aerobic conditions and utilised these substances as carbon and energy source. The capacity of strain 28-11 to emulsify crude oil and its ability to remove hydrocarbons looks promising for its application in environmental technologies.
Parameters with influence on the droplet size of w/o emulsions.	The aim of this study was to show that for w/o emulsions a modulation of components and parameters is necessary. Therefore several w/o emulsions were produced according to a 2(4) factorial design to get the information that pressure and temperature as production parameter have less influence on the droplet size than the substance components olive oil and lecithin. Furthermore an interaction between surfactant and oil component was observed which resulted in an increase of droplet size. With the following experiments the interfacial tension and the viscosity as physicochemical parameters were determined but gave no explanation for the phenomenon of an increasing droplet size if olive oil and lecithin are part of the formulation. So the influence of substance components was examined in more detail with the successive addition of oleic acid or oleyl alcohol to MCT and due to this the presence of unsaturated substances in olive oil could be determined as a possible reason for interactions with lecithin.
Preparation and characterization of reverse micelle based organogels of piroxicam.	The solubilization of piroxicam to increase transdermal permeation rate was attempted by incorporating the drug in reverse micelle systems consisting of lecithin/isopropyl myristate/water [RMS-1] and sodium bis(2-ethylhexyl) sulfosuccinate (AOT)/isooctane/water [RMS-2]. The change in polarity of water present in the water pool formed by reverse micelles resulted in a solubilization of piroxicam. These systems were used for the formation of reverse micellar organogels RMO-1 and RMO-2 by means of either varying hydration ratio (Wo) or by addition of a macromolecule, e.g. gelatin, into the system or by taking both the parameters in consideration. These systems were evaluated for physical properties, toxicology, in vitro and in vivo transdermal permeation. Significant (p < 0.01) inhibition of carrageenan induced rat paw oedema was observed for products RMO-1 and RMO-2 and a marketed transdermal product after 3 h.
Cytotoxicity studies of Dynasan 114 solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) on RAW 264.7 macrophages-impact of phagocytosis on viability and cytokine production.	Solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) based on Dynasan 114 (D114) were tested using RAW 264.7 cells. The influence of different surfactants on the cytotoxicity of this type of SLN was examined, expressed as 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) viability and the production of cytokines such as interleukin 6 (IL-6), IL-12 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Results were compared with previously obtained data when peritoneal mouse macrophages were used. SLN produced with stabilizers/surfactants such as poloxamer 188, sodium cholate, Lipoid S75, Tween 80, Poloxamine 908 and sodium dodecylsulfate were shown to be nontoxic towards RAW 264.7 cells. Cytokine production was reduced and stimulation, expressed in elevated cytokine levels, could not be found. Using cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) as stabilizing surfactant, SLN became cytotoxic in a concentration-dependent manner. Not only were the viabilities reduced but also cytokine production. Cytotoxic effects of CPC stabilized SLN could be antagonized using cytochalasin B to block phagocytosis. D114-SLN produced with pharmaceutically accepted surfactants for intravenous injection (poloxamer 188, Lipoid S75, sodium cholate, Tween 80) were very well tolerated by the cells. Even sodium dodecylsulfate-stabilized D114-SLN did not exert toxic effects. Comparison of the RAW 264.7 data with previously obtained data from toxicity studies of D114-SLN towards peritoneal mouse macrophages showed similar results. This offers the possibility of using the RAW 264.7 cell line for cytotoxicity studies of colloidal drug carrier systems, rather than using laboratory animals as source of macrophages for these kinds of studies.
Two-dimensional fluorescence correlation spectroscopy II: spectral analysis of derivatives of anthracene and pyrene in micellar solutions.	Generalized two-dimensional (2D) correlation spectroscopy has been applied to the analysis of fluorescence spectra in two micellar systems: (1) a mixture of pyrene and 1,3,6,8-pyrenetetrasulfonic acid in the cationic micellar solutions of cetyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTAC) and (2) a mixture of pyrene and 9-anthracencepropionic acid in anionic micellar solutions of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Fluorescence quenching is employed as a perturbation mode for causing intensity changes in fluorescence bands (quenching perturbation). Iodide ion (I-) is used as a quencher in the former system, and cetyl pridinium chloride (CPC) is used in the latter. Vibronic bands in the complicated fluorescence spectra of the mixture of the analytes were successfully resolved. It is shown that asynchronous maps are especially useful for spectral resolution enhancement when the quenching perturbation is employed in 2D fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. Furthermore, the information about the order of response of the bands to quenching is obtained by comparing the signs of synchronous and asynchronous cross-peaks.
Studies on the molecular interaction of phenazine dyes with Triton X-100.	The absorption spectra of phenazine dyes such as phenosafranin (PSF), safranin-O (Saf-O), and safranin-T (Saf-T) in aqueous solution of Triton X-100 (TX-100) show that phenazine dyes form 1:1 charge-transfer (CT) or electron-donor-acceptor (EDA) complex with TX-100. The photogalvanic and photoconductivity studies also support the above interaction. From the thermodynamic, spectrophotometric and photophysical parameters of these complexes, the abilities of dyes to accept electron are found to be in the order: PSF > Saf-O > Saf-T. There is a good correlation among the spectral and thermodynamic properties of these complexes.
A novel role for vernix caseosa as a skin cleanser.	Skin cleansing is a complex process involving endogenous and exogenous mechanisms. This study examines the role of vernix caseosa in the process of skin cleansing in the perinatal period.
Removal of sodium and potassium adducts using a matrix additive during matrix-associated laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometric analysis of peptides.	Monovalent cations often associate with peptides and proteins under mass spectrometry (MS) conditions, resulting in a discernable, but often misleading, adduct cluster pattern. These adduct cluster peaks reduce the signal intensity of specific peptide species by splitting the ion population into multiple mass peaks, suppressing the ionization of neighboring low-abundance peaks, and interfering with identification of post-translational modifications. Further, monovalent contaminants tend to form a distribution of matrix cluster peaks in matrix-associated laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) spectra causing interference and suppression in the mass range below 1400 Da. The most common method for reduction or elimination of adduct clusters is solid-phase extraction via a pipette tip or spin column, which often leads to loss of low-abundance peptide components. In this study we describe the use of a commercially available surfactant blend that markedly reduces the adduction of monovalent cations during peptide analysis by MALDI-TOFMS.
A simple and novel method to synthesize doped and undoped SnO2 nanocrystals at room temperature.	This work describes the synthesis, at room temperature, of doped and undoped SnO2 nanocrystals (particle size ranging from 1-3 nm) with no thermal or hydrothermal treatment. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that the synthesis, at room temperature, of doped and/or undoped SnO2 nanocrystals has been reported. This new synthesis method is based on the controlled oxidation, hydrolysis and polycondensation of tin ions in an ethanol solution. Another novel aspect of this method is the possibility of using surfactants, which may provide improved control over the particle size.
Studies on heme release from normal and metal ion reconstituted hemoglobin mediated through ionic surfactant.	The interaction of metal-substituted hemoglobin (MHb), where M = Ni and Cu (T-state with no O2 and CO binding capability) and Fe (R-state when CO is bound), with cationic cityl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) and anionic (sodium dodecyl sulfate-SDS) surfactants has been studied using spectroscopic techniques-UV-visible, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and Fourier transform-Raman-with additional supportive evidence coming from conductivity measurements. We observed the loss of 5-coordination in all three hemoglobins below the critical micelle concentration (CMC) of surfactant, with noticeable differences, suggesting differing mechanisms involved in this process. In addition, above the CMC, Ni- and Cu-hemes were found to leave their proteins more easily than Fe-heme, presumably due to weaker or no bond with the proximal histidine in the former. The released heme is stabilized by micellar media through a hydrophobic interaction process. Of the two surfactants, CTAB seems to be capable of releasing the heme better than SDS and it is attributed to the greater hydrophobicity of CTAB though the charge of the surfactant plays an important role.
Cardanol as a replacement for cholesterol into the lipid bilayer of POPC liposomes.	Large unilamellar liposomes were prepared by hydration of 1-palmitoyl-2-oleylphosphatydilcholine (POPC) films and subsequent extrusion of the obtained liposomal suspension. Inclusion of cholesterol and cardanol brings about a stabilization of the membranes of the liposomes, as determined by their rates of release of entrapped 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein. The liposome breakdown was promoted by a non-ionic surfactant (Triton X-100) and the kinetic measurements were carried out by fluorimetry in water at 25 degrees C. Morphological analyses of giant POPC liposomes in the presence and in the absence of both guests were also performed. The results obtained suggest the use of cardanol (an easy available natural product) as a replacement for cholesterol as a new possibility for stabilizing liposomes in drug targetting.
Biophysical and biochemical properties of a binary lipid mixture for DNA transfection.	The phase and miscibility behavior of a triple-chain phosphatidylcholine (TPHPC) and a single-chain surfactant (CTAB) were investigated in aqueous dispersions and in monolayers at the air/water interface. CTAB can be incorporated in the TPHPC monolayer because of its complementary molecule shape and reduces the tilt angle of TPHPC. The type of phases and the phase sequence (L2 - LS) are the same in the pure TPHPC monolayer and in the TPHPC/CTAB (80:20 mol:mol) mixture. No indication of any ordering of adsorbed DNA was observed. In the aqueous dispersions, TPHPC exhibits an inverted hexagonal phase above the chain melting. The addition of 30 mol% CTAB leads to the appearance of a lamellar Lalpha phase. The binding of DNA to the mixture is obvious but this is accompanied by a separation of the two lipids what is supported by monolayer experiments. The system has no long-term stability. The main reason seems to be not only the stronger interaction of DNA with CTAB, but also especially the unexpected weak interaction between CTAB and TPHPC. The transfection efficiency is lower compared with lipofectamine. The main disadvantage of this system is the cytotoxicity of CTAB, which could not be lowered by incorporation of CTAB in the TPHPC bilayer.
Investigation of artificial biomembrane systems in biopartitioning micellar chromatography by method of mathematical design.	An attempt to create and study an artificial membrane system was realized via biopartitioning micellar liquid chromatography. Towards this end the known formula of membrane permeability (on the basis of Fick's diffusion equation) was modified so that membrane permeability may be estimated in terms of chromatographic characteristics. The two-factoral experiments on the basis of mathematical design of second order were carried out. The regression equations are derived which describe the dependence of membrane permeability on the concentration of polyoxyethylene (23) lauryl ether in the mobile phase and its flow-rate for compounds with biomedical significance. Some regularities were revealed, which characterize the permeability of compounds of the different nature through membranes. The extremal dependence (with passing through minimum) of permeability on the concentration of non-ionic surfactant was observed for anionic compounds. The increasing character of permeability in relation with flow-rate of mobile phase was recognized for cationic samples. Both dependences were basically fulfilled for zwitterionic compounds.
Selectivity of the herbicide flazasulfuron applied after postemergence in sugarcane (Saccharum spp. L.) crop.	The selectivity of the herbicide flazasulfuron was evaluated when applied at two rates (50 and 100 g/ha) with and without surfactants (Aterbane or Agral at 0.2% v/v). The treatment was applied at early (three leaves) and late (five to six leaves) stages of the postemergence of sugarcane plants (var. RB845257) grown in two soils (sandy and clay) with good moisture status before and after application. Despite the toxicity symptoms, especially at the late stage with the higher rate of application in the sandy soil, the herbicide did not affect the growth nor the stalk yield. The presence of the surfactants had no effect on the toxicity symptoms.
Microemulsion and micellar electrokinetic chromatography of Hematoporphyrin D: a starting material of hematoporphyrin derivative.	An investigation of the basic factors which govern the microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography (MEEKC) and micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) separation of Hematoporphyrin D and its base hydrolysis product, hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD), was performed. These model compounds contain a complex mixture of porphyrin monomers, dimers and/or oligomers, and were utilized to gain insights into the MEEKC/micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) separation of samples containing highly lipophilic substances. For example, the organic modifier/cosurfactant (1-butanol) and/or oil phase (e.g., 1-octanol in comparison to ethyl acetate) were found to have an apparent influence on the separation selectivity of Hematoporphyrin D, the extent of which was dependent on the chemical nature of the surfactant employed (e.g., sodium dodecyl sulfate vs. sodium cholate). An interesting and important finding was that the presence of an organic modifier (methanol or acetonitrile at a concentration of 20% or higher) in the sample matrix as well as in the run buffer was essential for the optimal MEEKC or MEKC separation of a number of porphyrin monomers (including hematoporphyrin IX and its acetates, most likely hydroxyacetate, diacetate, and vinyl acetate, as well as its dehydration products, hydroxyethylvinyldeuteroporphyrin and protoporphyrin) contained in Hematoporphyrin D. On the other hand, the use of these optimized conditions for the MEEKC or MEKC separation of various oligomeric porphyrin species in HpD were unsatisfactory. As HpD is a well-known and effective photosensitizing agent in photodynamic therapy (a new approach for cancer treatment), the improved separation and characterization of various monomeric and oligomeric porphyrin species in HpD and its starting material, such as Hematoporphyrin D, is a challenging and important task.
Determination of food colorants by microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography.	A microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography (MEEKC) method was developed to analyze and detect eight food colorants (tartrazine, fast green FCF, brilliant blue FCF, allura red AC, indigo carmine, sunset yellow FCF, new coccine, and carminic acid), which are commonly used as food additives in various food products. The effects of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) surfactant, organic modifier, cosurfactant, and oil were examined in order to optimize the separation. The amount of organic modifier (acetonitrile) and SDS surfactant were determined as apparent influences on the separation resolution while the type of oil and cosurfactant rarely affected the separation selectivity of the eight colorants. A highly efficient MEEKC separation method, where the eight colorants were separated with baseline resolution within 14 min, was achieved by using a microemulsion solution of pH 2.0 containing 3.31% SDS, 0.81% octane, 6.61% 1-butanol, and 10% acetonitrile. This optimal MEEKC method has a higher separation efficiency and similar detection limit when compared to conventional capillary electrophoresis (CE) method. Furthermore, a sample pretreatment is rarely needed when this MEEKC technique is used to analyze colorants in food products, whereas a suitable sample pretreatment (for example solid-phase extraction) has to be employed prior to CE separation in order to eliminate matrix interferences resulting from the constituents of the food sample.
Chiral recognition ability of an (S)-naproxen- imprinted monolith by capillary electrochromatography.	The racemic naproxen was selectively recognized by capillary electrochromatography (CEC) on an (S)-naproxen-imprinted monolith, which was prepared by an in situ thermal-initiated polymerization. The recognition selectivity of a selected monolith strictly relied on the CEC conditions involved. The factors that influence the imprinting selectivity as well as the electroosmotic flow (EOF), including the applied voltage, organic solvent, salt concentration and pH value of the buffer, column temperature, and surfactant modifiers were systematically studied. Once the column was prepared, the experiment results showed that the successful chiral recognition was dependent on CEC variables. For example: the recognition could be observed in acetonitrile and ethanol electrolytes, while methanol and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) electrolytes had no chiral recognition ability. The buffer with pH values of 2.6 or 3.0 at a higher salt concentration had chiral recognition ability. Column temperatures of 25-35 degrees C were optimal. Three surfactants, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB), and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate (Tween 20), can improve the recognition. Baseline resolution was obtained under optimized conditions and the column efficiency of the later eluent (S)-naproxen was 90 000 plates/m.
Enzyme hyperactivity in AOT water-in-oil microemulsions is induced by 'lone' sodium counterions in the water-pool.	Water-in-oil microemulsions are thermodynamically stable single-phase dispersions of water and surfactant within a continuous oil phase. The classical ternary system, based on the surfactant sodium bis(2-ethylhexyl)sulfosuccinate ('AOT'), water and an alkane such as n-heptane, is an optically transparent monodispersion of spherical water-droplets coated with a close-packed surfactant monolayer and the droplet radius is, to a good first approximation, directly proportional to the molar water: surfactant ratio, R. Enzymes dissolved in the water droplets retain activity and stability. These systems have attracted interest as media for biotransformations. Principally based upon studies in AOT-stabilized w/o microemulsions, a peculiar feature of the kinetics of enzyme-catalyzed reactions has long been apparent: the reaction rate characteristically increases from around zero at R=3, through a maximum, in the range R= 10-20, and thereafter decreases again, so that plots of rate vs. R are characteristically 'bell-shaped'. Furthermore, at optimal R, enzymes seem to be 'hyperactive', i.e., they are more active, by a modest but significant factor of 2-3-fold, than in aqueous solution. In this paper we propose the hypothesis that this kind of R-dependence arises because of the presence of freely mobile lone surfactant counterions (Na+) within the water-pool. These ions have no charge partners within the water pool and consequently have a high electrochemical potential. According to our model, lone counterions facilitate the hydrolysis of ester or amide substrates, for example, by stabilizing the tetrahedral intermediate formed during the reaction through ion-pairing with the carbonyl oxygen of the substrate, thus facilitating transfer of negative charge from the carbonyl carbon as it is attacked by the incoming nucleophile. An expression for the relationship between the concentration of free counterions in the water-pool and the compositional parameter R leads directly, through Debye-Hckel theory, to an expression for the relationship between the reaction rate and R, log k(R)= log k(o) + C(1/R)1/2 where k(R) is the rate constant at some finite R, k(o) is the rate constant extrapolated to R = infinity and C is an R-independent coefficient. For enzymes that display bell-shaped kinetics, such as bovine alpha-chymotrypsin and Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, the descending part of the plot (i.e. from optimal R to high R) obeys this equation very well. Inspection of the above equation shows that the rate constant, k(R) is greater than k(o). Furthermore it is reasonable to equate k(o) with k(aq), the aqueous solution value of k since the condition R = infinity may be equated with the condition of infinite dilution with respect to counterions, so eliminating their specific effect on the kinetics. It follows from the inequality, k(R) > k(o) approximately equal to k(aq), that the enzyme is 'hyperactive' in the microemulsion compared with aqueous solution. We show that this is indeed the case for the chymotrypsin-catalyzed hydrolysis of N-trans-cinnamoylimidazole and the lipase catalyzed hydrolysis of 4-nitrophenyl acetate. The tailing off of enzyme activity at low R (< 10) is most likely due to conformational immobilization, probably due to partial dehydration in these low-water preparations (water activity, a(w), drops off rapidly below R = 15). We show that the reaction of glycylglycine with 4-nitrophenyl acetate, a 'hyperactive' non-enzymic reaction, does not suffer from this effect and obeys the above equation across the whole range of R.
Tuning the polymer release from hydrophilic matrix tablets by mixing short and long matrix polymers.	In this work a rotating disc method was developed for studying the dissolution process of "bimodal" polymer tablets, whose dissolution rates have been tuned by mixing low-molecular weight and high-molecular weight samples of poly(ethylene oxide) in various proportions. The tablets were prepared along different routes, by mixing the polymer fractions as powders or by mixing on a molecular level so that the effect of tablet heterogeneity could be assessed, but also by purifying the original powders so the effect of additives could be determined. When the mixed tablet was dominated by the low-molecular weight fraction, a faster dissolution was observed for the tablet mixed at the powder level. In those cases small gel pieces were released from the tablet during the whole dissolution process. As long as no gel piece erosion was observed, it did not matter if the two polymer fractions were blended on the molecular level or on the powder level, the steady-state dissolution rate was the same. The presence of small amounts of additives in the nonpurified commercial samples had no significant effect on the tablet dissolution within the uncertainty of the experiment.
Amide-ligand hydrogen bonding in reverse micelles.	One approach to modeling the second coordination shell of metalloproteins is to pair amide-containing counterions with metal complexes to form hydrogen bonds in the solid state. In a more general approach, we have designed a surfactant counterion that can sustain hydrogen bonding interactions with metal complexes in solution. The surfactant is cationic and incorporates an amide as part of its headgroup to form hydrogen. The surfactant forms hydrogen bonding reverse micelles that accommodate anionic metal complexes in their polar core. In reverse micelles containing an iron(III) hexacyanide complex, spectroscopic evidence suggests that the anion is confined to the polar core region in solution. Single-crystal X-ray diffraction data on the surfactant ferricyanide system reveals a layered structure with interdigitated alkyl chains and an extensive network of hydrogen bonds that link amide groups to the cyanide ligands and to neighboring headgroups.
Fate of glutaraldehyde in hospital wastewater and combined effects of glutaraldehyde and surfactants on aquatic organisms.	Glutaraldehyde (GA), an aliphatic dialdehyde disinfectant, and surfactants, one of the major components of detergents, are widely used in hospitals in order to eliminate pathogenic organisms causing nosocomial infectious diseases. After their use, disinfectants and surfactants reach the wastewater network together. The discharge of chemical compounds from hospital activities into wastewater is also a well-known problem, causing pollution of water resources and constituting an ecological risk for aquatic organisms. In this study, the chemistry and toxicology of GA and surfactant mixtures were reviewed in order to estimate their fate in aquatic ecosystems. Furthermore, their joint effects on aquatic organisms were experimentally assessed in the laboratory. A simple model of the additive joint action of toxicants was used to determine combined acute toxicity effects on the bacteria luminescence and Daphnia mobility of three mixtures containing GA at 1.5 x EC50 24 h [in mg/L] on Daphnia and anionic, cationic and nonionic surfactants at twice their critical micellar concentration (CMC). The mixture of GA and a cationic surfactant gave an EC50 30 min on Vibrio fischeri of 0.158%, with a concentration of 0.04 mg GA/L and 1.04 mg CTAB/L, which provided an additive action. The interaction between GA and an anionic surfactant on V. fischeri produced an antagonistic joint action with an EC50 30 min of 3.95%, containing 1.06 mg GA/L and 33.2 mg SDS/L. A synergistic action with an EC50 30 min of 8.4% on V. fischeri was observed for the mixture containing GA and a nonionic surfactant. Antagonistic interactions were observed for the joint action between GA and the surfactants studied on Daphnia. The mixture of GA and CTAB was more toxic (EC50 24 h=0.02%) than the two other mixtures (EC50 24 h GA+SDS=6%; EC50 24 h GA+TX 100=10%). This study provides new data on the toxicity of certain hospital pollutants entering the aquatic environment and detected in surface and groundwaters. It is necessary to study the joint effects of GA and surfactant mixtures following chronic and sublethal standard bioassays in order to estimate the contribution of the additive joint action models in assessing the environmental risk of hospital wastewater (HW).
Interaction between bovine serum albumin and equimolarly mixed cationic-anionic surfactants decyltriethylammonium bromide-sodium decyl sulfonate.	The interactions of bovine serum albumin (BSA) with the anionic surfactant sodium decylsulfonate (C10SO3), the cationic surfactant decyltriethylammonium bromide (C10NE) and equimolarly mixed cationic-anionic surfactants C10NE-C10SO3 were investigated by surface tension, viscosity, dynamic light scattering (DLS) and circular dichroism (CD). It was shown that the single ionic surfactant C10SO3 or C10NE has obvious interaction with BSA. The presence of C10SO3 or C10NE modified BSA structure. However, the equimolarly mixed cationic-anionic surfactants C10NE-C10SO3 showed very weak interactions with BSA. The surface tension-log concentration (gamma-logC) plot for the aqueous solutions of C10NE-C10SO3/BSA mixtures coincided with that of C10NE-C10SO3 solutions. Viscometry showed that there is no significant change in the rheological properties for the C10NE-C10SO3/BSA mixed solutions. DLS showed that BSA monomers and mixed aggregates of C10NE-C10SO3 existed in the C10NE-C10SO3/BSA mixed solutions. From CD spectra no obvious modification of BSA structure in the presence of C10NE-C10SO3 mixtures was observed. The weak interactions between BSA and C10NE-C10SO3 might be explained in terms of the very low critical micelle concentration (cmc) of C10NE-C10SO3 mixtures that made the concentration of ionic surfactant monomers much lower than that needed for inducing the modification of BSA structure. In other words, the very strong synergism between oppositely charged cationic and anionic surfactants makes the formation of cationic-anionic surfactant mixed aggregates in the bulk solution a more favorable process than binding to proteins.
Surfactant encapsulated DNA: structure characterization and interaction with dye molecules in organic media.	The recognition of electrostatically-bound DNA-didodecyldimethylammonium (DNA-DDDA) complex by three dye molecules, acridine orange (AO), ethidium bromide (EB) and 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-N-methylpyridyl) porphyrin tetra(p-toluenesulfonate) (TMPyP) in organic media was investigated through 1H NMR, UV-vis, and circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopies. When the organic solvent in which DNA-DDDA complex dissolves is changed from ethanol to chloroform, the adsorbed AO undergoes a reversible transformation from a monomer to a highly aggregated state at the interface between DNA and DDDA. EB also adsorbs at the interface between DNA and DDDA when EB interacts with the DNA-DDDA complex in organic media, but its existing state is independent of the used solvents. The third dye, TMPyP cation can intercalate into the G-C region while its anionic p-tosylate counterion remains unbound when it mixes with DNA complex in organic media. The complexes of DDDA with previously recognized DNA by the three dye molecules (DNA-dye), respectively, are also investigated. AO seems having changed its location from the grooves of DNA to the interface between DNA and DDDA after DNA-AO complex was electrostatically encapsulated with DDDA. The aggregation behavior of AO also shows a dependence on the polarity of the organic solvent. EB molecules are believed to intercalate into the base pairs of DNA in aqueous solution. The intercalation mode is still maintained after the encapsulation for DNA-EB in organic solvents, which is different from the situation between DNA-DDDA complex and EB. But in both cases, the existing states of EB are independent of the polarity of the organic solvents. Finally, TMPyP in the complex of DNA-TMPyP and DDDA is also judged to intercalate into the G-C region of DNA while its anionic p-tosylate counterion remains separated from DNA complex, which is similar to its interaction with DNA-DDDA complex in organic media. These data also strongly suggest that the intercalation state of TMPyP is more stable than its adsorption state in grooves when it is recognized with DNA. The present results are significant for the designs of both laser dye and conductive materials.
Asymmetric membrane capsules for delivery of poorly water-soluble drugs by osmotic effects.	A non-disintegrating polymeric capsule system, in which asymmetric membrane offers an improved osmotic effect, was used to deliver poorly water-soluble drugs in a control manner. The capsule wall membrane was made by a phase inversion process, in which asymmetric membrane was formed on stainless-steel mold pins by dipping the mold pins into a coating solution containing a polymeric material followed by dipping into a quench solution. This study evaluates the influence of coating formulation that was cellulose acetate (CA), ethylcellulose (EC), and plasticizer (glycerin and triethyl citrate). Results show capsule that made by CA with glycerin (formulation A), which appear in asymmetric structure and are able to release chlorpheniramine maleate (CM) in significant percentage. Two poorly water-soluble drugs of felodipine (FL) and nifedipine (NF) were selected as the model drug to demonstrate how the controlled release characteristics can be manipulated by the design of polymeric capsules with an asymmetric membrane and core formulations. Results show that sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is able to promote the release of FL from polymeric capsules prepared with CA with asymmetrical membrane. The addition of solubilizer, including RH40, PVP K-17, and PEG 4000 could enhance the release of FL but with an extent not being related to its solubility. Based on these results, influence of core formulation variables, including the viscosity and added amount of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), the added amount of SLS, and drug loading were examined on the release of NF. It was found that HPMC of 50 cps was suitable to be a thickening agent and both added amount of HPMC and SLS showed a comparable and profoundly positive effect, whereas NF loading had no influence on the drug release percent and rate. There existed a synergistic interaction between HPMC and SLS on the release percent and rate.
A simple spectrophotometric determination of trace level mercury using 1,5-diphenylthiocarbazone solubilized in micelle.	A very simple, ultra-sensitive and fairly selective non-extractive spectrophotmetric method is presented for the rapid determination of mercury(II) at ultra-trace level using 1,5-diphenylthiocarbazone (dithizone) as a new micellar spectrophotometric reagent (lambdamax = 490 nm) in a slightly acidic (0.07 - 0.17 M H2SO4) aqueous solution. The presence of a micellar system avoids the previous steps of solvent extraction and reduces the cost, toxicity while enhancing the sensitivity, selectivity and the molar absorptivity. The reaction is instantaneous and the absorbance remains stable for over 24 h. The average molar absorption coefficient and Sandell's sensitivity were found to be 5.02 x 10(4) L mol(-1) cm(-1) and 10 ng cm(-2) of Hg, respectively. Linear calibration graphs were obtained for 0.05 - 10 mg L(-1) of Hg; the stoichiometric composition of the chelate is 1:2 (Hg:dithizone). The method is characterized by a detection limit of 1 microg L(-1) of Hg. Large excesses of over 60 cations, anions and complexing agents (e.g. EDTA, tartrate, oxalate, citrate, phosphate, thiourea, azide, SCN-) do not interfere in the determination. The method was successfully applied to a number of environmental water samples (potable and polluted), biological samples (human blood and urine; milk and fish) and soils; solutions contained both mercury(I) and mercury(II) as well as complex synthetic mixtures. The method has high precision and accuracy (s = +/-0.01 for 0.1 mg L(-1)).
Toothpastes.	It is well known that plaque is the main cause of caries and parodontopathies, which puts the role of toothpastes as an important means of prevention of odontopathies to the foreground. Toothpastes can be more or less oriented towards having a particular effect, such as cleaning, anticaries effect, antimicrobial effect or inhibition of the formation of tartar. Toothpastes contain substances which promote dental health, such as abrasives (silicium dioxide, brushite, calcite, calcite and aragonite, gibbsite etc.), active components (fluorides, triclosan, metal ions, sanguinarine and surface-active substances), substances which motivate the use of toothpaste (sweetening agents, aromatic oil, colours) and components which are necessary for technical reasons, such as moisturizing agents, binders and opacifiers.
Dilational rheology of adsorbed surfactant layers--role of the intrinsic two-dimensional compressibility.	The frequency and concentration dependencies of the dilational elasticity and viscosity of adsorbed surfactant layers is yet not quantitatively understood. Especially at a surface coverage above 50% the measured high frequency limits of the elasticity pass typically a maximum or reach a plateau while classical models expect an exponential increase to very high values. The consideration of an intrinsic two-dimensional compressibility allows a much better description of experimental data. There are various surfactant systems discussed in literature following this new model. Although the impact of these interfacial characteristics on the dilational rheology is significant, the adsorption isotherm and equation of state change only slightly.
Analysis of DNA, lipopolysaccharide structure, and some cultural and morphological properties in closely related strains of Azospirillum brasilense]	We studied closely related Azospirillum brasilense strains Sp7 and Cd. For probing of their genomes, the fragments of 85-MDa (p85) and 120-MDa (p120) from A. brasilense Sp245 plasmids were hybridized with 115-MDa (p115) and 90-Mda (p90) plasmids of strain Sp7, respectively. Strain Cd was found to lose the 115-Mda plasmid and one of the two EcoRI restriction fragments of the total DNA (localized within p115 and the chromosome) that was homologous to an EcoRI-generated p85 fragment of 2.4 kb. On the contrary, in the total DNA of strain Sp7-S, in spite of the previously established disappearance of the 115-Mda replicon, two fragments homologous to p85 were revealed, as with strain Sp7. It is suggested that the Sp7-S genome contains the total p115 DNA or at least a certain part of it. Strains Sp7 and Cd were found to differ in size and morphology of colonies on solid and semisolid media, in the levels of resistance to a cation surfactant cetavlon, and in the antigen structure of lipopolysaccharides.
Reversed micelles of polymeric surfactants in nonpolar organic solvents. A new microheterogeneous medium for enzymatic reactions.	A new microheterogeneous non-aqueous medium for enzymatic reactions, based on reversed micelles of a polymeric surfactant, was suggested. The surfactant termed CEPEI, was synthesized by successive alkylation of poly(ethyleneimine) with cetyl bromide and ethyl bromide and was found to be able to solubilize considerable amounts of water in benzene/n-butanol mixtures. The hydrodynamic radius of polymeric-reversed micelles was estimated to be in the range 22-51 nm, depending on the water content of the system, as determined by means of the quasi-elastic laser-light scattering. Polymeric reversed micelles were capable of solubilizing enzymes (alpha-chymotrypsin and laccase) in nonpolar solvents with retention of catalytic activity. Due to the strong buffering properties of CEPEI over a wide pH range, it could maintain any adjusted pH inside hydrated reversed micelles. It was found that catalytic behavior of enzymes entrapped in polymeric reversed micelles was rather insensitive to the pH of the buffer solution introduced into the system as an aqueous component, but determined mostly by acid-base properties of the polymeric surfactant itself. Both catalytic activity and stability of entrapped alpha-chymotrypsin and laccase were found to increase with increasing water content of the system. Under certain conditions, the entrapment of alpha-chymotrypsin into CEPEI reversed micelles resulted in a considerable increase in catalytic activity and stability as compared to aqueous solution. CEPEI reversed micelles were demonstrated to be promising enzyme carriers for use in membrane reactors. Owing to the large dimensions of CEPEI reversed micelles, they are effectively kept back by a semipermeable membrane, thus allowing an easy separation of the reaction product and convenient recovery of the enzyme.
Effects of gangliosides GM3 and De-N-acetyl GM3 on epidermal growth factor receptor kinase activity and cell growth.	Previously it was reported (Bremer, E.G., Schlessinger, J., and Hakomori, S.-I. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 2434-2440) that ganglioside GM3 inhibited epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated phosphorylation of the EGF receptor in Triton X-100-treated preparations of human epidermoid carcinoma (A431) cell membranes. In addition, these authors reported that GM3 inhibited the growth of A431 cells. In contrast, a modified ganglioside, de-N-acetyl GM3, enhanced the EGF-dependent tyrosine kinase activity of the EGF receptor. In this work and in subsequent studies (Hanai, N., Dohi, T., Nores, G. A., and Hakomori, S.-I. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 6296-6301), the tyrosine kinase activity of the receptor from A431 cell membranes was assayed in the presence of Triton X-100. In this report, we confirm that GM3 inhibited and de-N-acetyl GM3 stimulated EGF receptor autophosphorylation in the presence of Triton X-100. However, in the absence of detergents, ganglioside GM3 inhibited EGF-stimulated receptor autophosphorylation, whereas de-N-acetyl GM3 had no effect on EGF-stimulated receptor autophosphorylation. The effects of these gangliosides on receptor autophosphorylation were measured in both A431 cell plasma membranes and in 3T3 cell membranes permeabilized to [32P]ATP by a freeze-thaw procedure, in intact A431 cells permeabilized with alamethicin, and in intact A431 cells grown in the presence of [32P]orthophosphate. Thus, the inhibitory effect of GM3 on receptor autophosphorylation was demonstrated in the presence and in the absence of detergent; the stimulatory effect of de-N-acetyl GM3 was observed only in the presence of detergent. We also demonstrate that ganglioside GM3 inhibited EGF-stimulated growth of transfected murine fibroblasts (3T3) that express the gene for human EGF receptor (Velu, T. J., Beguinot, L., Vass, W. C., Zhang, K., Pastan, I., and Lowy, D. R. (1989) J. Cell. Biochem. 39, 153-166). De-N-acetyl ganglioside GM3 had no effect on the growth of these cells. Growth of control fibroblasts, which lack endogenous EGF receptors (Pruss, R. M., and Herschman, H. R. (1977) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 74, 3918-3921), was not affected by the presence of either ganglioside. Similarly, ganglioside GM3, but not de-N-acetyl ganglioside GM3, inhibited the EGF-dependent incorporation of [3H]thymidine into DNA by transfected fibroblasts. Incorporation of labeled thymidine into DNA of control fibroblasts was not affected by the presence of either ganglioside. These studies indicate that ganglioside GM3, but not its deacetylated analogue, can affect EGF receptor kinase activity in intact membranes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Influence of reagent quality and reaction conditions on the determination of serum albumin by the bromcresol green dye-binding method.	In an age of reference methodologies and sophisticated quality control techniques it is surprising that so little attention is paid to the quality of the reagents that are used. This paper reports on an investigation of the bromcresol green dye-binding procedure for the estimation of serum albumin in which particular attention has been paid to changes in the reagent components that contribute to the performance of the method. It has been shown that detailed attention to the quality control of the reagents can improve the precision and interlaboratory comparison in the estimation of serum albumin.
Polyethylene glycol solution (PEG) plus contrast medium vs PEG alone preparation for CT colonography and conventional colonoscopy in preoperative colorectal cancer staging.	This study evaluated the usefulness of combined polyethylene glycol solution plus contrast medium bowel preparation (PEG-C preparation) followed by dual-contrast computed tomography enema (DCCTE) and conventional colonoscopy. The main purpose of these examinations is the preoperative staging of already known tumors.
The interactions of horse heart apocytochrome c with phospholipid vesicles and surfactant micelles: time-resolved fluorescence study of the single tryptophan residue (Trp-59).	The interactions of horse heart apocytochrome c with membrane interfaces were studied on membrane models including micelles of the anionic surfactant sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), the micelle forming lipid analogs dodecylphosphoglycol (C12PG), tetradecylphosphoglycol (C14PG), and dodecylphosphocholine (C12PN), and the negatively charged phospholipid 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoylsn-glycero phosphocholine (POPS) forming small unilamellar vesicles (SUV). The time-resolved fluorescence of the single tryptophan residue (Trp-59) emission was monitored to characterize the modifications of the conformational equilibrium and of the internal dynamics of the protein, which can be brought about by its binding to these model membranes. In most of the cases, as for the protein in solution, the excited state lifetime distribution of the Trp emission was described by four discrete classes, whose relative proportions and barycenters vary significantly in the different complexes formed. In the complex with POPS, however, the decay analysis showed only 3 lifetime classes: the long lifetime class displayed a barycenter value smaller than that observed for the protein in aqueous solution but with a much higher proportion, indicating a stabilization of this conformer in the membrane-bound form of the protein. A similar sensitivity of the Trp-59 excited state to deactivation by thermal collisions in water and in the protein/POPS complex was observed, indicating a probable location of Trp-59 at the membrane/water interface. The effects of protein binding to C12PN, C12PG and C14PG micelles on the long lifetime class proportion were similar to that of POPS but, in addition, there was a large contribution of a short lifetime component which was absent in POPS vesicles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Characteristics and physiological role of surfactant-like particles secreted by entrocytes.	Intestinal epithelium secretes novel unilamellar membranes having characteristics similar to lung surfactants and thus has been named Surfactant-like particles (SLP). The chemical analysis of the membranes revealed cholesterol/phospholipid molar ratio of 0.68-0.78, which is much distinct from that of the underlying microvillus membranes (1.34-1.49). The membrane contains 4-6 proteins with a molar weight of 30-120 kDa and is enriched with alkaline phosphatase, contains low amounts of disaccharidases but no Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity. The secretion of SLP is stimulated by fat feeding. Chronic ethanol ingestion also induces the formation of SLP in rat intestine. A number of physiological functions have been attributed to SLP, which include: (i) as a protective lubricant in intestinal lumen, (ii) a role in triacylglycerol transport, (iii) as a vehicle for the transport of luminal proteins into blood, (iv) as a stratum for the adhesion of microorganisms in intestinal lumen, and (v) a role in trans-signalling mechanism across the basolateral surface of enterocytes.
Production of ascorbyl palmitate by surfactant-coated lipase in organic media.	The surface of a lipase from Burkholderia cepacia was coated with a nonionic surfactant, propylene glycol monostearate, and was used as a biocatalyst in the production of ascorbic acid in tert-butyl alcohol. The influence of various factors such as the type of surfactant, the pH of the buffer used for coating, the amount of surfactant in the coating, the organic solvent, and the temperature and molar ratio of the substrates used in the reaction on the conversion of ascorbyl palmitate were studied. After 24 h of reaction at 50 degrees C, a conversion of 47% was obtained using an ascorbic acid to palmitic acid molar ratio of 1:6. The native lipase showed only 6% conversion.
Increased dissolution and physical stability of micronized nifedipine particles encapsulated with a biocompatible polymer and surfactants in a wet ball milling process.	Suspensions of nifedipine, a practically water-insoluble drug, were prepared in the presence of a biocompatible polymer, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, K value 17), and three surfactants, sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS, anionic), cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CETAB, cationic), polysorbate 80 (Tween 80, nonionic), by wet milling in ceramic ball mills. Nifedipine powders encapsulated with PVP and the surfactants were recovered from the suspensions after milling and evaluated for changes in particle size, morphology, sedimentation rate in aqueous suspensions, crystal form, and dissolution. Particle size analysis indicated that milling of suspensions in solutions of PVP and surfactants is an efficient method for reducing the particle size of nifedipine to below 10 microm. Furthermore, DSC and XPS analysis indicated that during milling the nifedipine crystals were coated with the PVP or surfactants and that milling with PVP stabilized the nifedipine crystal form during milling while nifedipine was gradually amorphisized when milled in a quaternary nifedipine/PVP/SLS/CETAB system. The decrease in particle size caused a significant decrease in sedimentation rate and increased the dissolution rate of nifedipine in simulated gastric fluid when compared to milled nifedipine and powder mixtures of the drug and the excipients.
Remediation of PCB contaminated soils using iron nano-particles.	In this study, iron nano-particles were used to remediate PCB contaminated soil and an attempt was made to maximize PCB destruction in each treatment step. The results show that nano-particles do aid in the dechlorination process and high PCB destruction efficiencies can be achieved. The destruction efficiency during the preliminary treatment (mixing of soil and iron nano-particles in water) can be increased by increasing the water temperature. The maximum thermal destruction (pyrolysis/combustion of soil after preliminary treatment) of soil-bound PCBs occurs at 300 degrees C in air. A minimum total PCB destruction efficiency of 95% can be achieved by this process. The effect of changing treatment parameters such as type of mixing, time of mixing and mixing conditions and application of other catalysts like iron oxide and V(2)O(5)/TiO(2) was also investigated. It was found that at 300 degrees C in air, iron oxide and V(2)O(5)/TiO(2) are also good catalysts for remediating PCB contaminated soils.
Synthesis and characterization of biocompatible Fe3O4 nanoparticles.	In this study, magnetite (Fe3O4) nanoparticles with a size range of 8-20 nm were prepared by the modified controlled chemical coprecipitation method from the solution of ferrous/ferric mixed salt-solution in alkaline medium. In the process, two kinds of surfactant (sodium oleate and polyethylene glycol) were studied; then, sodium oleate was chosen as the apt surfactant to attain ultrafine, nearly spherical and well-dispersed (water-base) Fe3O4 nanoparticles, which had well magnetic properties. The size and size distribution of nanoparticles were determined by particle size analyzer. And the magnetite nanoparticles was characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) analysis, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), electron diffraction (ED) photography, Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FT-IR), and vibrating-sample magnetometer (VSM). Also the effect of many parameters on the Fe3O4 nanoparticles was studied, such as reaction temperature, pH of the solution, stirring rate and concentration of sodium oleate. And the 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl-2,5- diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay was performed to evaluate the biocompatibility of magnetite nanoparticles. The results showed that the Fe3O4 nanoparticles coated by sodium oleate had a better biocompatibility, better magnetic properties, easier washing, lower cost, and better dispersion than the magnetite nanoparticles coated by PEG.
Sensitization of surfactants on the chemiluminescence reaction of fluorescein isothiocyanate labeled proteins.	The effect of surfactants on fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-bovine serum albumin (BSA)-hypochlorite (ClO(-)), FITC-human serum albumin (HSA)-ClO(-), FITC-ovoconalbumin (OVA)-ClO(-), FITC-hemoglobin (Hb)-ClO(-) systems were investigated with chemiluminescence method by the reversed phase flow injection. It was found that the chemiluminescence (CL) intensity of each system was increased greatly in the presence of cationic surfactants. Cethyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) is the optimal surfactant of these systems. The optimal conditions of the CL reaction and the optimal concentration of CTAB were examined and the function of cationic surfactant CTAB on the CL reaction was also discussed.
The use of slurry sampling for the determination of manganese and copper in various samples by electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry.	Manganese and copper in multivitamin-mineral supplements and standard reference materials were determined by slurry sampling electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry. Slurries were prepared in an aqueous solution containing Triton X-100. The effects of different parameters such as ratio of solid to liquid phase volume, total slurry volume and addition of Triton X-100 as a dispersant on the analytical results were investigated. The graphite furnace programs were optimized for slurry sampling depending on the analytes and their concentrations in the samples. The linear calibration method with aqueous standard solutions was used for the quantification. At optimum experimental conditions, R.S.D. values were below 5%. The analytes were determined in the limits of 95% confidence level with respect to certified values in coal and soil standard reference materials and to those found by wet-digestion in multivitamin-mineral supplements. Detection limits (3delta) for Mn and Cu were 0.10 microg L(-1) and 1.82 microg L(-1) for 10 microL coal standard reference material slurry, respectively.
Phase transition water-in-oil microemulsions as ocular drug delivery systems: in vitro and in vivo evaluation.	Microemuslion (ME)-based phase transition systems were evaluated for ocular delivery of pilocarpine hydrochloride (model hydrophilic drug). These used two non-ionic surfactants, sorbitan mono laurate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono-oleate with ethyl oleate (oil component) and water. These systems undergo phase change from ME to liquid crystalline (LC) and to coarse emulsion (EM) with a change in viscosity depending on water content. This study selected five formulations containing aqueous phase at 5% (w/w) (ME 5%), 10% (w/w) (ME 10%), 26% (w/w) (LC), 85% (w/w) (O/W EM) and 100% (solution) with the model drug at 1% (w/w). Incorporation of pilocarpine hydrochloride did not affect the phase behaviour. The viscosity was increased initially with dilution from ME 5% to ME 10% then LC, indicating structuring of the system, before being reduced in the EM formulation. Drug release depended on the viscosity with lower release rates obtained from formulations with high viscosity. The miotic response and duration of action were greatest in case of ME and LC formulations indicating high ocular bioavailability. Thus, phase transition ME is promising for ocular drug delivery as it provides the fluidity with its viscosity being increased after application increasing ocular retention while retaining the therapeutic efficiency.
Adsorption studies of a water soluble dye, Reactive Red MF-3B, using sonication-surfactant-modified attapulgite clay.	The removal of water-soluble Reactive Red MF-3B from aqueous media by sonication-surfactant-modified attapulgite clay was studied in a batch system. The surfactant used was octodecyl trimethyl ammonium chloride (OTMAC). Adsorbent characterizations were investigated using X-ray diffraction, infrared spectroscopy, and surface area analysis. The effects of pH, contact time, initial solute concentration, adsorbent dose, and temperature on the adsorption of Reactive Red MF-3B onto modified clay were investigated. On the basis of kinetic studies, specific rate constants involved in the processes were calculated and second-order adsorption kinetics was observed in the case. Film diffusion was found to be the rate-limiting step. Reactive Red MF-3B adsorption was found to increase with increase temperature. The Reactive Red MF-3B equilibrium adsorption data were fitted to Freundlich and Langmuir isotherm models, the former being found to provide the better fit of the experimental data. Thermodynamic parameters were calculated. From the results it can be concluded that the surfactant-modified clay could be a good adsorbent for treating Reactive Red MF-3B-contaminated waters.
Improving the dissolution rate of poorly water soluble drug by solid dispersion and solid solution: pros and cons.	The solid dispersions with poloxamer 188 (P188) and solid solutions with polyvinylpyrrolidone K30 (PVPK30) were evaluated and compared in an effort to improve aqueous solubility and bioavailability of a model hydrophobic drug. All preparations were characterized by differential scanning calorimetry, powder X-ray diffraction, intrinsic dissolution rates, and contact angle measurements. Accelerated stability studies also were conducted to determine the effects of aging on the stability of various formulations. The selected solid dispersion and solid solution formulations were further evaluated in beagle dogs for in vivo testing. Solid dispersions were characterized to show that the drug retains its crystallinity and forms a two-phase system. Solid solutions were characterized to be an amorphous monophasic system with transition of crystalline drug to amorphous state. The evaluation of the intrinsic dissolution rates of various preparations indicated that the solid solutions have higher initial dissolution rates compared with solid dispersions. However, after storage at accelerated conditions, the dissolution rates of solid solutions were lower due to partial reversion to crystalline form. The drug in solid dispersion showed better bioavailability in comparison to solid solution. Therefore, considering physical stability and in vivo study results, the solid dispersion was the most suitable choice to improve dissolution rates and hence the bioavailability of the poorly water soluble drug.
Low cholesterol solubility in DODAB liposomes.	Through the analysis of the ESR spectra of spin labels, we investigated the thermotropic properties of dioctadecyl dimethylammonium bromide (DODAB) liposomes, in low and high ionic strength, with different cholesterol contents. The cationic lipid gel phase is stabilized by the presence of ions, the bilayer having a higher gel/fluid transition temperature (Tm) in high ionic strength. As found for low ionic strength [Benatti, C.R., Feitosa, E., Fernandez, R.M., Lamy-Freund, M.T., 2001. Structural and thermal characterization of dioctadecyldimethylammonium bromide dispersions by spin labels. Chem. Phys. Lipids, 111, 93-104], high salt DODAB membranes also present a clear coexistence of the two phases around Tm. Cholesterol solubility in DODAB bilayers seems to be rather low, as the coexistence of DODAB and cholesterol-rich domains can be clearly detected by spin labels, for cholesterol concentration as low as 15 mol% of the total lipid. For lower cholesterol concentrations, the effect of cholesterol in DODAB bilayers is similar to that in phospholipids. For concentrations at or above 45 mol% of cholesterol, spin labels do not detect the coexistence of structurally different domains.
Retention of pesticides in soil columns modified in situ and ex situ with a cationic surfactant.	A study of the effect of a clayey soil modified in situ and ex situ with the cationic surfactant octadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (ODTMA), on the retention of linuron, atrazine and metalaxyl was carried out. Leaching of these compounds was studied in columns of a natural clayey soil and the same clayey soil modified by direct injection of the surfactant in situ, and in columns of a natural sandy soil and the same sandy soil modified by intercalation of a barrier of the clayey soil saturated ex situ with the surfactant. Breakthrough curves indicated the total immobilization of linuron in modified soils and a decrease in the leaching kinetics of atrazine and metalaxyl compared to what was obtained in the natural soil. The results indicate the use of the clayey soil modified in situ or ex situ with the surfactant ODTMA could be of interest in the immobilization of pesticides of different hydrophobicities.
A novel method to quantify the amount of surfactant at the oil/water interface and to determine total interfacial area of emulsions.	We present a methodology to quantitatively determine the fraction of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) that partitions to the oil/water interface in oil-in-water macroemulsions and calculate the total interfacial area (TIA) through the novel use of filtration through nanoporous membranes. Ultrafiltration was carried out in centrifuge tubes having nanoporous filters with a 30,000 molecular weight cutoff (MWCO), so that emulsion droplets would not pass through, and only SDS (as monomers and micelles) that is in the bulk water phase (i.e., not at the interface) could pass through. The concentration of SDS in the filtrate was determined and used to calculate the TIA for each system. The mean droplet diameter of the emulsions was measured by light scattering. We analyzed the effects of total SDS concentration and oil chain length on the amount of SDS that partitions to the interface, the TIA, and the droplet diameter. The results showed that partitioning of SDS to the oil/water interface increases with increasing total SDS concentration in emulsion systems (i.e., the more SDS we add to the bulk solution, the more SDS partitions to the oil/water interface). However, the surface-to-bulk partition coefficient (i.e., the SDS concentration at the interface divided by the SDS concentration in the aqueous phase) remains the same over the entire concentration range (8-200 mM). The results showed a chain-length compatibility effect in that the minimum amount of SDS partitioned to the interface for C(12) oil. The droplet size measurements revealed a maximum size of droplets for C(12) oil. Penetration of oil molecules into SDS film at the interface has been proposed to account for the maximum droplet size and minimum partitioning of SDS at the oil/water interface for C(12) oil+SDS emulsion system. The TIA, as determined from our ultrafiltration method, was consistently two orders of magnitude greater than that calculated from the droplet size measured by light scattering. Possible explanations for this disparity are discussed.
Study of microfiltration behaviour of oily wastewater.	Crossflow microfiltration experiments were carried out with oily wastewater using alpha-Al(2)O(3) membranes with 0.05 microm pore size. The influence of parameters such as transmembrane pressure (TMP), crossflow velocity (CFV), oil concentration, pH and salt concentration on the microfiltration behaviors were studied based on the measurements of permeate flux, total organic carbon (TOC) removal efficiency, and size and zeta potential of the emulsion droplets. The results showed that there were different degrees of effect on the membrane separation performance by these parameters. The TOC removal efficiencies higher than 92.4% were achieved under all experimental conditions. A non-steady model of accumulation volume of permeation was developed. It was found that the calculated values were in good agreement with the experimental results. Sensitivity analysis was also conducted to identify the degree of influence of the parameters on the accumulation volume of permeation. The results indicated that the accumulation volume of permeation was significantly affected by the TMP.
Fluorocarbon-based oxygen carriers: new orientations.	Fluosol, a first, low-concentration fluorocarbon emulsion, was recently approved for oxygenating the myocardium during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Improvements in fluorocarbon and emulsion technology have led to the development of significantly more stable, more efficient second-generation injectable O2 carriers. This progress extends the potential of fluorocarbons in medicine to new applications both in diagnostics and in therapeutics. Future objectives will aim at adjusting and optimizing the preparation's characteristics for each specific application. The emulsifier, or surfactant, which determines the external appearance of the fluorocarbon droplets, will play a key role in the mastery of emulsion properties. Extensive research efforts are therefore being directed toward the synthesis and evaluation of new families of surfactants or co-surfactants specifically designed for emulsifying fluorocarbons.
Synthesis and evaluation of ampicillin-conjugated gum arabic microspheres for sustained release.	Ampicillin was conjugated to periodate-oxidized gum arabic (GA), a branched polysaccharide, to form the imino conjugate of the drug and the polysaccharide. The water-soluble conjugate was dispersed by sonication in a mixture of toluene and liquid paraffin in the presence of a non-ionic surfactant as droplet stabilizer and fabricated into microspheres by heat denaturation at 80 degrees C to obtain spheres less than 2 microm in diameter. These microspheres did not undergo dissolution in water on prolonged incubation. In-vitro release of ampicillin into phosphate buffer from the microspheres was slow and sustained with a cumulative release between 10 and 25% of the drug content in 10 days depending on the degree of oxidation of GA and the drug payload. Release into simulated gastric fluid was faster due to faster hydrolysis of the drug-GA bond in the acid medium, but when the medium was changed to intestinal fluid, the release was slowed down. Ampicillin released was functionally active and inhibited the growth of S. aureus and E. coli in cultures, although not as actively as free ampicillin. The microspheres underwent slow biodegradation on prolonged incubation in aqueous media. These studies show that ampicillin conjugated with oxidized GA and fabricated into microspheres possesses sustained-release characteristics for prolonged periods.
Investigating the effects of surfactants on the size and hydrolytic stability of poly(adipic anhydride) particles.	The present study investigates the effects of surfactants (<0.01% v/v) on the size and hydrolytic stability of poly(adipic anhydride) (pAA) micro- and nanospheres fabricated using a modified phase inversion technique. Overall, surfactants increased the output yield by roughly 20%. Lecithin produced the greatest reduction in the volumetric particle size (dvol) compared to particles fabricated with no surfactant (dvol = 530 +/- 300 nm and 2.2 +/- 1.1 microm, respectively). In addition, sorbitan monooleate produced spheres with smaller numeric diameters (dnum) than the control but appeared to induce aggregation (dvol = 7.7 +/- 12.5 microm). The dnum and dvol were not dependent on the hydrophobicity of the surfactant (R2 = 0.36 and 0.03, respectively) or the apparent surface tension of the non-solvent (NS) phase (R2 = 0.44 and 0.04, respectively). In addition, quantitative DSC and FT-IR analysis confirmed that altering the particle size could also influence the hydrolytic stability of pAA.
Study of the coalescence of acoustic bubbles as a function of frequency, power, and water-soluble additives.	The effect that surface-active solutes, such as aliphatic alcohols and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), have on the extent of bubble coalescence in liquids under different sonication conditions has been investigated by measuring the volume change of the solution following a period of sonication. In general, the adsorption of surface-active solutes onto the bubble surface retards bubble coalescence. Within the limitations of the measurement method and the systems studied, bubble coalescence does not appear to be dependent on the applied acoustic power. Also, varying the applied acoustic frequency has a minimal effect on the extent of bubble coalescence in systems where long-range electrostatic repulsion between bubbles, imparted by the adsorbed surface-active solutes, dominates. However, when short-range steric repulsion (or other short-range repulsive forces) is the primary factor in inhibiting bubble coalescence, the dependence on the applied acoustic frequency becomes apparent, with less coalescence inhibition at higher frequencies. It is also concluded that SDS does not reach an equilibrium adsorption level at the bubble/solution interface under the sonication conditions used. On the basis of this conclusion, a method is proposed for estimating nonequilibrium surface excess values for solutes that do not fully equilibrate with the bubble/solution interface during sonication. For the case of SDS in the presence of excess NaCl, the method was further employed to estimate the maximum lifetime of bubbles in a multibubble field. It was concluded that an acoustic bubble in a multibubble field has a finite lifetime, and that this lifetime decreases with increasing applied frequency, ranging from up to 0.35 +/- 0.05 ms for 213 kHz to 0.10 +/- 0.05 ms for 1062 kHz. These estimated lifetimes equate to a bubble in a multibubble field undergoing an upper limit of 50-200 oscillations over its lifetime for applied ultrasound frequencies between 200 kHz and 1 MHz.
Lamellar phase supported synthesis of colloidal gold nanoparticles, nanoclusters, and nanowires.	Gold nanoparticles (Au NP) have been synthesized in aqueous phase under ambient conditions in the presence of a series of various cationic double chain as well as dimeric (gemini) surfactants. The spacer chain and twin tail length of these surfactants has been systematically varied to see the effect of hydrophobicity on their capping ability. It has been observed that the increase in the length of spacer chain (from 12-2-12 to 12-6-12) and twin tails (from 10-2-10 to 14-2-14) significantly increases the lamellar phase formation and which in return acts as a wonderful template to accommodate the NP in the form of nanoclusters and nanowires. The lamellar phase practically facilitates the nucleation of Au degrees and produces large NP (15 +/- 2 nm). All reactions have also been carried out in the presence of beta-cyclodextrin (CYC) which has strong ability to complex with surfactant tail. The presence of CYC induces a tendency to form nanowire and it is more prominent in the case of surfactants with longer spacer group.
Effect of process variables on particle size and viability of Bifidobacterium lactis Bb-12 in genipin-gelatin microspheres.	Gelatin microspheres cross-linked with genipin were developed to encapsulate the probiotic Bifidobacterium lactis Bb-12 The effects of different gelatin concentrations (10-19% w/v), bloom strengths (175 and 300), surfactants, stirring rates during emulsion formation and genipin concentrations (0-10 mM) on the microsphere sizes and viability of bacterial cells were investigated. Principal Component Analysis revealed microsphere size distribution differed depending on the presence or absence of surfactants as well as a trend of increasing micropshere size with increasing gelatin concentration and bloom strength. Lower stirring rates resulted in larger microspheres with higher encapsulation yields of bifidobacteria Microsphere size and cell viability were not significantly (p < 0.05) influenced by increasing genipin concentrations up to 10 mM whereas microsphere stability in simulated gastric juice increased with increasing genipin concentration. The encapsulation yields were higher in 175 bloom strength gelatin microspheres than in 300. Cold-stage scanning electron microscopy showed encapsulated bacteria distributed throughout the genipin cross-linked gelatin matrix.
Synthesis and magnetic properties of FePt nanoparticles with hard nonmagnetic shells.	Chemically synthesized FePt nanoparticles were coated with nonmagnetic SiO2 and MnO shells by sol-gel and polyol processes. TEM images show that the FePt/SiO2 nanoparticles exhibit a thick spherical shell. The size and morphology of the MnO shell can be controlled by changing the reaction temperature, the molar ratio of surfactants/Mn(acac)2, and/or the concentration of precursor. The morphology of the MnO shell can be either spherical-like or cubic-like, depending on whether the molar ratio of surfactants/Mn(acac)2 is less than or larger than 2. From XRD measurements, the spherical core/shell nanoparticles exhibit 3D random crystallographic orientation, while the cubic core/shell nanoparticles prefer (200) texture. The magnetic moment of FePt particles can be enhanced by coating with SiO2 and MnO shells. Furthermore, the agglomeration of FePt particles upon the thermal annealing can be significantly inhibited with SiO2 and MnO shells.
Studies on preparation and absolute bioavailability of a self-emulsifying system containing puerarin.	The purpose of the study was to develop an optimum formulation of self-emulsifying drug delivery systems (SEDDS) containing puerarin and to evaluate its absolute bioavailability. Using oleic acid as oil, Tween-80 as surfactant and propylene glycol as cosurfactant, a series of mixtures comprising oleic acid, propylene glycol and Tween 80 were prepared and their self-emulsifying properties were studied. Pseudo-ternary phase diagrams were constructed to identify the efficient self-emulsification region and particle sizes of the resultant emulsions were determined using a laser diffraction sizer. From these studies, an optimized formulation consisting of oil (17.5%), Tween-80 (34.5%) and cosurfactant (34.5%) was selected and its absolute bioavailability in beagle dogs after oral administration was about 24.8%. The data suggest the use of SEDDS to provide a potential way of puerarin administered orally.
Poly (epsilon-caprolactone)/propolis extract: microencapsulation and antibacterial activity evaluation.	Spherical and homogenous microparticles of poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL), containing propolis were prepared by the emulsification-solvent evaporation technique. Using this method of preparation, a solid formulation of propolis, free of ethanol and suitable for manipulation and storage, was obtained from an ethanolic extract of propolis. The incorporation efficiency of propolis in the microparticles was almost 30% and around 60% of the substance was released in 48 h. In vitro propolis microparticles exhibited similar halo zones in the Petri plate test against Streptococcus mutans (GS5) with a 10-fold lower concentration than the free propolis extract showing that the encapsulated propolis in microparticles is more efficient as antibiotic.
Prophylactic statins as a possible method to decrease bubble formation in diving.	Nitric oxide (NO) may decrease bubble formation in diving. Statin medications are attractive potential options to increase NO. Statins exhibit a proven safety profile, and possess a myriad of pleiotropic properties improving vascular endothelial function. Additionally, statin-mediated lipid reduction may reduce bubble generation via alterations in plasma surface tension. We investigated the efficacy of atorvastatin as a pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of bubble formation after diving, a surrogate for decompression sickness (DCS).
Perturbation of membrane microdomains in GLC4 multidrug-resistant lung cancer cells--modification of ABCC1 (MRP1) localization and functionality.	The multidrug resistance-associated protein transporter ABCC1 (MRP1) is an integral plasma membrane protein involved in the multidrug resistance phenotype. It actively expels a number of cytotoxic molecules from cells. To gain insight into the modulation of the functional properties of this integral membrane protein by cholesterol, a main component of the lipid bilayer, we used multidrug-resistant GLC4/ADR cells, which overexpress MRP1. Upon altering the plasma membrane cholesterol content of these cells, membrane localization and the activity of MRP1 were analyzed. A detergent-free methodology was used to separate "light" and "heavy" plasma membrane fractions. Our data show that MRP1 was exclusively found in "light" fractions known as L0 phase membrane microdomains, together with 23% of gangliosides GM1 and 40% of caveolin-1. Depletion of the membrane cholesterol level to 40% by treatment with the cholesterol-chelating agent methyl-beta-cyclodextrin did not modify MRP1 activity, as evidenced either by the rate of efflux of pirarubicin or that of glutathione. Further cholesterol depletion below 40% yielded both a partial shift of MRP1 to the high-density fraction and a decrease of its functionality. Taken together, these data suggest that MRP1 functionality depends on its localization in cholesterol-rich membrane microdomains.
Water dissociation at MgO sub-monolayers on silver: a periodic model study.	A hybrid-exchange DFT hamiltonian and a periodic slab model have been employed to simulate water dissociation at the border of sub-monolayer MgO films deposited on Ag(100). Non-polar and polar borders have been considered, but the reaction energy is higher in the former case. The O-1s core level shifts and the O-H vibrational frequencies have been calculated and shown to be compatible with recent XPS and HREELS data, respectively [Savio et al., J. Chem. Phys., 2003, 119, 12053].
Pharmaceutical suspensions: relation between zeta potential, sedimentation volume and suspension stability.	The effect of added surface-active agents of various ionic types on the sedimentation volume of drug suspensions of betamethasone, griseofulvin, nalidixic acid and thiabendazole has been investigated, and the results correlated with previously measured zeta potentials. Study of the zeta potential/sedimentation volumes versus concentration plots showed that apparently only coagulated, deflocculated or sterically stabilized systems were formed. In most cases the sterically stabilized systems were produced from mixtures of ionic/non-ionic surfactants. These are examples of controlled coagulation, although non-ionic surfactant alone conferred stability against caking. Secondary minimum flocculation was not apparent but this may have been due to the method of examination of suspensions. The work confirmed that the DLVO theory of colloid stability and its modification to include a steric term can be applied to coarse suspension systems.
Development of a cloud-point extraction method for copper and nickel determination in food samples.	A new, simple and versatile cloud-point extraction (CPE) methodology has been developed for the separation and preconcentration of copper and nickel. The metals in the initial aqueous solution were complexed with 2-(2'-benzothiazolylazo)-5-(N,N-diethyl)aminophenol (BDAP) and Triton X-114 was added as surfactant. Dilution of the surfactant-rich phase with acidified methanol was performed after phase separation, and the copper and nickel contents were measured by flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The variables affecting the cloud-point extraction were optimized using a Box-Behnken design. Under the optimum experimental conditions, enrichment factors of 29 and 25 were achieved for copper and nickel, respectively. The accuracy of the method was evaluated and confirmed by analysis of the followings certified reference materials: Apple Leaves, Spinach Leaves and Tomato Leaves. The limits of detection expressed to solid sample analysis were 0.1 microg g(-1) (Cu) and 0.4 microg g(-1) (Ni). The precision for 10 replicate measurements of 75 microg L(-1) Cu or Ni was 6.4 and 1.0, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to the analysis of food samples.
Removal of dyes and their mixtures from aqueous solution using liquid emulsion membrane.	Extraction of dyes from aqueous solution was studied using liquid emulsion membrane. Study was carried out using two dyes, namely, crystal violet (CV) and methylene blue (MB). Extraction of single component system of each dye and their binary mixture were investigated. Liquid emulsion membrane was formed using n-heptane as membrane phase, sodium hydroxide solution as the internal phase and dye solution as the external phase. Surfactant span 80 was used as the emulsion stabilizer. Effects of concentration of span 80, concentration of NaOH, stirring speed, composition of feed solution and the volume ratio of the oil phase to the aqueous phase (O/A) were studied in detail both for single and binary system. Maximum extraction of MB was found to be 99% and that for CV was about 95% in single component system. In binary mixture, these values were 97% and 90%, respectively.
Reversed micelle solvents as tools of enzyme purification and enzyme-catalyzed conversion.	Reversed micelle solvents represent nanometer-sized aqueous droplets stabilized by surfactants inside the bulk organic solvents. The aqueous cores can host various hydrophilic solutes, including bioactive substances thus revealing a challenge to the biotechnology's needs of the safe media for bioseparations and bioconversions. This review discusses the structure and the properties of reversed micelle solvents in view of the parameters that can be easily operated in technology to achieve safe liquid-liquid extraction of proteins/enzymes or bioconversion of hydrophobic substrates. The paper highlights the importance of how the reversed micelle microenvironment should be arranged with respect to the preservation of the activity of the enzyme as target product or biocatalyst. The main aspects are demonstrated with own experimental results on alpha-amylase purification and lipase-catalyzed esterification using cationic reversed micelle solvents. The trials of performing continuous processes involving reversed micellar separation and reaction media are also reviewed and the current problems are addressed.
Dynamic forces between bubbles and surfaces and hydrodynamic boundary conditions.	A bubble attached to the end of an atomic force microscope cantilever and driven toward or away from a flat mica surface across an aqueous film is used to characterize the dynamic force that arises from hydrodynamic drainage and electrical double layer interactions across the nanometer thick intervening aqueous film. The hydrodynamic response of the air/water interface can range from a classical fully immobile, no-slip surface in the presence of added surfactants to a partially mobile interface in an electrolyte solution without added surfactants. A model that includes the convection and diffusion of trace surface contaminants can account for the observed behavior presented. This model predicts quantitatively different interfacial dynamics to the Navier slip model that can also be used to fit dynamic force data with a post hoc choice of a slip length.
A novel vector system for gene transfer into the cornea using a partially dried plasmid expressing 18 basic fibroblast growth factor-synthetic amphiphile INTeraction-18 (SAINT-18) complex.	We describe a novel vector system of nonviral gene transfer into the cornea using a partially dried form of a plasmid expressing 18-kDa basic fibroblast growth factor (p-bFGF)-synthetic amphiphile INTeraction-18 (SAINT-18) complex.
Synapsin I is a highly surface-active molecule.	Synapsin I is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein localized on the surface of small synaptic vesicles to which it binds with high affinity (Kd = 10 nM). Synapsin I exhibits a tendency to self-associate, suggesting that it might have amphiphilic properties. We have now found that synapsin I forms a stable monolayer at an air-water interface which can be compressed under a lateral force of up to 60 dynes/cm, indicating the presence of amphiphilic characteristics in its structure. This interpretation was also supported by circular dichroism spectra of synapsin I, which showed induction of secondary structure in the presence of trifluoroethanol. The various phosphorylated forms of synapsin I did not show any noticeable differences in the force-area isotherms. The monolayer properties of synapsin I fragments derived by cysteine-specific cleavage indicated the presence of amphiphilic characteristics throughout the entire sequence, although the C-terminal region showed less of such surfactant properties. Compositional studies of these fragments revealed that there is little interaction between the N-terminal and middle fragment regions, but that there may be some interaction between the C-terminal and middle fragment regions which affects the surface area occupied by these fragments. Based on this information, we propose a molecular topology for synapsin I consisting of amphiphilic regions and a hydrophilic region.
Impact of fat and water crystallization on the stability of hydrogenated palm oil-in-water emulsions stabilized by a nonionic surfactant.	The influence of (0-40 wt %) sucrose and (0 and 150 mmol/kg) sodium chloride on the physical properties of 20 wt % hydrogenated palm oil-in-water emulsions stabilized by 2 wt % Tween 20 after crystallization of the oil phase only or both the oil and water phases has been examined. Emulsion stability was assessed by differential scanning calorimetry measurements of fat destabilization after cooling-heating cycles and by measurements of mean particle size, percent destabilized fat, and percent free oil obtained from gravitational separation after isothermal storage (at -40 to +37 degrees C). At storage temperatures where the oil phase was partially crystalline and the water was completely liquid, the emulsions were unstable to droplet coalescence and oiling off because of partial coalescence. Both NaCI and sucrose increased the extent of partial coalescence in the emulsions. At storage temperatures where both oil and water crystallized, the emulsions were completely destabilized. The stability of the emulsions to freezing and thawing could be improved somewhat by adding sucrose (>20 wt %). Emulsions stabilized by whey proteins were shown to have better freeze-thaw stability than those stabilized by Tween 20, especially in the presence of sucrose. These results may help formulate food emulsions with improved freeze-thaw stability.
Characterization of simian virus 40 tsA58 transcriptional intermediates at restrictive temperatures: relationship between DNA replication and transcription.	When nuclei from simian virus 40 (SV40)-infected cells are lysed with Sarkosyl and the chromatin is pelleted, the supernatant fluid contains a nucleoprotein complex capable of synthesizing viral RNA (Laub and Aloni, Virology 75:346-354, 1976; Gariglio and Mousset, FEBS Lett. 56:149-155, 1975). The level of activity of the RNA polymerase in the complex increased during infection in parallel with the amount of viral DNA that had been synthesized. If cells infected at 33 degrees C with the SV40 mutant tsA 58 were shifted to the nonpermissive temperature of 40 degrees C at any time between 18 and 48 h postinfection, no viral DNA replication was detected after 45 min and no new rounds of synthesis were initiated after 20 to 30 min. However, after this shift, polymerase activity associated with the nucleo-protein complex did continue to increase for 5 h, at which time it reached a plateau. There was an increase of RNA synthesized from both the early (E) and late (L) SV40 DNA strands, and there was a threefold increase in the ratio of early-to-late RNA species after the shift. In comparable experiments with cells infected with wild-type virions, no increase in polymerase activity occurred because of the temperature change alone. At 33 degrees C, the relative amount of RNA transcribed from the wild-type E-strand was less than tsA 58 at 33 degrees C and did not increase after a shift to 40 degrees C. The tsA 58 transcriptional complexes extracted from cells grown at 33 degrees C sedimented heterogeneously in sucrose gradients, with a peak near 26S. There were no detectable alterations in the sedimentation properties of the complexes when tsA 58-infected cells were shifted to 40 degrees C for 2 h. We conclude that continued synthesis of viral DNA is not an obligatory prerequisite for maintenance of late viral transcription nor is the sedimentation of the transcriptional complex at 26S related to actively replicating DNA molecules serving as templates for transcription. Further, an increase in late transcription can occur under conditions where reinitiation of viral DNA synthesis is prevented. The increase in the synthesis of early and late RNA at the restrictive temperature without concurrent DNA synthesis is discussed in relationship to the function of the A gene product.
Drug delivery to the brain using surfactant-coated poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoparticles: influence of the formulation parameters.	Poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) nanoparticles coated with poloxamer 188 (Pluronic((R)) F-68) or polysorbate 80 (Tween((R)) 80) enable an efficient brain delivery of the drugs after intravenous injection. This ability was evidenced by two different pharmacological test systems employing as model drugs the anti-tumour antibiotic doxorubicin and the agonist of opioid receptors loperamide, which being P-gp substrates can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) only in pharmacologically insignificant amounts: binding of doxorubicin to the surfactant-coated PLGA nanoparticles, however, enabled a high anti-tumour effect against an intracranial 101/8 glioblastoma in rats, and the penetration of nanoparticle-bound loperamide into the brain was demonstrated by the induction of central analgesic effects in mice. Both pharmacological tests could demonstrate that therapeutic amounts of the drugs were delivered to the sites of action in the brain and showed the high efficiency of the surfactant-coated PLGA nanoparticles for brain delivery. The results of the study also demonstrated that the efficacy of brain delivery by nanoparticles not only is influenced by the coating surfactants but also by other formulation parameters such as core polymer, drug, and stabilizer.
Flame atomic absorption spectrometric determination of copper, zinc and manganese after solid-phase extraction using 2,6-dichlorophenyl-3,3-bis(indolyl)methane loaded on Amberlite XAD-16.	A simple and selective method for the determination of Cu(2+), Zn(2+) and Mn(2+) ions in real samples by FAAS after solid-phase extraction was developed. The method is based on the sorption of metal ions on Amberlite XAD-16 modified by 3-((2,6-dichlorophenyl)(1H-indol-3-yl)methyl)-1H-indole (DCPIMI) at a pH of 5.0. The metal ions retained on solid phase by complexation with ligand were then eluted with 6 mL of 4 mol L(-1) nitric acid in acetone. In order to obtain a reversible uptake and elution of metal ions, the influence of flow rates of eluent and sample solution, ligand concentration and amount of surfactant and condition of elution solution was also investigated. A preconcentration factor of 225 was achieved by passing 1350 mL of sample through the solid phase, while the limit of detection (LOD) of Cu(2+), Zn(2+) and Mn(2+) ions were found to be 1.9, 1.5 and 2.6 ng mL(-1), respectively, and the corresponding precision at 20 microg L(-1) was 2.1%, 2.3%, 3.0%.
Characterization of a soybean oil-based biosurfactant and evaluation of its ability to form microbubbles.	This paper characterizes the physico-chemical properties of the soybean oil-based polymeric surfactant, Palozengs R-004 (hereafter referred to as R-004). The surface activity of R-004 is comparable to the reported activities of biosurfactants produced by microorganisms and higher than some of the conventional synthetic surfactants. The surface tension of Milli-Q water was reduced to a minimum value of roughly 30mN/m at a concentration of about 0.07wt.%. R-004 exhibited a unique aggregation behavior: small aggregates (pre-micelles) were formed at very low concentrations. Zeta-potential measurements showed that the micelles of R-004 are negatively charged due to the presence of carboxylic groups. The ability of R-004 to form and stabilize microbubbles was evaluated and was found to be greatly affected by filtration while remaining independent of R-004 concentration over the concentration range studied (0.05-0.5wt.%). These results suggest that a very low level of surfactant can be used to produce microbubbles without affecting their properties. Our results suggest the possibility of using soybean oil-based surfactants to food, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic applications.
Effects of waste activated sludge and surfactant addition on primary sludge hydrolysis and short-chain fatty acids accumulation.	This paper focused on the effects of waste activated sludge (WAS) and surfactant sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (SDBS) addition on primary sludge (PS) hydrolysis and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) accumulation in fermentation. The results showed that sludge hydrolysis, SCFA accumulation, NH(4)(+)-N and PO(4)(3-)-P release, and volatile suspended solids (VSS) reduction were increased by WAS addition to PS, which were further increased by the addition of SDBS to the mixture of PS and WAS. Acetic, propionic and valeric acids were the top three SCFA in all experiments. Also, the fermentation liquids of PS, PS+WAS, and PS+WAS+SDBS were added, respectively, to municipal wastewater to examine their effects on biological municipal wastewater treatment, and the enhancement of both wastewater nitrogen and phosphorus removals was observed compared with no fermentation liquid addition.
Supramolecular design of self-assembling nanofibers for cartilage regeneration.	Molecular and supramolecular design of bioactive biomaterials could have a significant impact on regenerative medicine. Ideal regenerative therapies should be minimally invasive, and thus the notion of self-assembling biomaterials programmed to transform from injectable liquids to solid bioactive structures in tissue is highly attractive for clinical translation. We report here on a coassembly system of peptide amphiphile (PA) molecules designed to form nanofibers for cartilage regeneration by displaying a high density of binding epitopes to transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGFbeta-1). Growth factor release studies showed that passive release of TGFbeta-1 was slower from PA gels containing the growth factor binding sites. In vitro experiments indicate these materials support the survival and promote the chondrogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells. We also show that these materials can promote regeneration of articular cartilage in a full thickness chondral defect treated with microfracture in a rabbit model with or even without the addition of exogenous growth factor. These results demonstrate the potential of a completely synthetic bioactive biomaterial as a therapy to promote cartilage regeneration.
Inactivation of Escherichia coli outer-membrane phospholipase A by the affinity label hexadecanesulfonyl fluoride. Evidence for an active-site serine.	The Escherichia coli outer-membrane phospholipase A (OM PLA) is a membrane-bound acyl hydrolase with a broad substrate specificity. In order to obtain more insight into the mechanism of action of this enzyme, we designed an active-site-directed inhibitor for OM PLA on the basis of the known substrate specificity as a first step in the elucidation of the catalytic mechanism of this enzyme. The inhibitor, hexadecanesulfonyl fluoride, consists of a long hydrocarbon chain for high-affinity binding by the enzyme and a sulfonyl fluoride moiety as a reactive group. The kinetics of the inactivation of OM PLA by hexadecanesulfonyl fluoride were studied in Triton X-100 micelles. Inactivation is very fast, specific and shows the same characteristics with respect to acyl specificity, pH profile and metal ion requirement as the activity of OM PLA on substrates. Incubation of OM PLA with a stoichiometric amount of hexadecanesulfonyl fluoride leads to a total and irreversible loss of enzyme activity, resulting from the sulfonylation of Ser144. This Ser144, which we suggest to be the active-site serine of OM PLA, is part of the sequence HDSNG, whereas in the water-soluble serine proteases and lipases the structural motif GXSXG is normally encountered. On the basis of the kinetics of inactivation of OM PLA by hexadecanesulfonyl fluoride, we discuss a possible catalytic mechanism of the enzyme.
Effects of Arosurf MSF on a variety of aquatic nontarget organisms in the laboratory.	Ninety-six-hour static acute toxicity tests were conducted in the laboratory to determine the effects of a 47 ml/m2 (50 gal/acre) application of Arosurf MSF (2 mole ethoxylate of isostearyl alcohol) on Fundulus similus, Palaemonetes pugio, Palaemonetes paludosus, Uca spp., Procambarus spp., Gammarus spp., Asellus spp., Streptocephalus seali, Physa spp., Laeonereis culveri and an unidentified amphipod. Test temperatures of 20-27 degrees C were based on the ambient water temperature for the season of the year when the desired life stages were more abundant. No acute toxicity was observed with any of the organisms exposed to this concentration of Arosurf MSF.
Formulation optimization and bioavailability after oral and nasal administration in rabbits of puerarin-loaded microemulsion.	The main objective of the study was to investigate the efficacy of microemulsion (ME) to facilitate bioavailability of puerarin (PUE) after oral and nasal administration. The pseudo-ternary phase diagrams were constructed to screen the ME components and optimize the ME formulation. The optimized formulation for bioavailability assessment consisted of 20% Tween 80, 20% glycerin, and 1.6% ethyl oleate. The solubility (27.8 mg/mL) of PUE in ME was significantly improved compared to that (4.58 mg/mL) of crude PUE in water. The ME droplets were spherical with a mean particle diameter of 23.4 nm. After nasal (5 mg/kg) and oral (20 mg/kg) administration of a single dose of PUE as ME to fasted rabbits, the absolute bioavailability was 34.58% and 13.54%, respectively. It showed a shorter T(max) (0.75 h) for nasal administration than that (1.0 h) for oral administration of PUE-loaded ME. The C(max) of PUE-loaded ME was 0.55 g/mL after nasal administration and 0.64 g/mL after oral administration, respectively. The results showed that nasal administration might be a promising route to enhance the absorption of PUE in the form of ME.
Controlling ligand surface density optimizes nanoparticle binding to ICAM-1.	During infection, pathogens utilize surface receptors to gain entry into intracellular compartments. Multiple receptor-ligand interactions that lead to pathogen internalization have been identified and the importance of multivalent ligand binding as a means to facilitate internalization has emerged. The effect of ligand density, however, is less well known. In this study, ligand density was examined using poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles (PLGA NPs). A cyclic peptide, cLABL, was used as a targeting moiety, as it is a known ligand for intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). To modulate the number of reactive sites on the surface of PLGA NPs, modified Pluronic with carboxyl groups and Pluronic with hydroxyl groups were combined in different ratios and the particle properties were examined. Utilizing a surfactant mixture directly affected the particle charge and the number of reactive sites for cLABL conjugation. The surface density of cLABL peptide increased as the relative amount of reactive Pluronic was increased. Studies using carcinomic human alveolar basal epithelial cells (A549) showed that cLABL density might be optimized to improve cellular uptake. These results complement other studies, suggesting that surface density of the targeting moiety on the NP surface should be considered to enhance the effect of ligands used for cell targeting.
Formation and stabilization of antimicrobial delivery systems based on electrostatic complexes of cationic-non-ionic mixed micelles and anionic polysaccharides.	Lauric arginate (LAE) is a cationic surfactant that is of great interest to the food industry because of its strong antimicrobial activity. However, its application within foods and beverages is currently restricted because of its limited solubility in aqueous solutions and its bitter taste, which have been associated with its cationic nature. This study examines whether electrostatic complexes between cationic LAE mixed micelles and anionic polysaccharides could be used to improve LAE functionality. Two types of pectin (high and low methoxyl) were titrated into buffer solutions containing either LAE micelles or LAE/Tween 20 mixed micelles (pH 3.5, 50 mM citrate buffer). The electrical characteristics of the micelles or micelle/pectin complexes were assessed by microelectrophoresis measurements, while their stability to aggregation was evaluated by light scattering measurements. LAE micelle/pectin complexes formed large aggregates that rapidly sedimented. On the other hand, mixed micelle/pectin complexes (1:1 LAE/Tween 20, w/w) were stable to aggregation and formed clear solutions. The electrical charge of mixed micelles changed from +8 to -15 mV when the pectin concentration was increased (0.00-0.05 wt %), indicating an electrostatic interaction between anionic pectin molecules and cationic micelles. Lower concentrations of low methoxyl pectin were required (0.01 wt %) to change the net charge of mixed micelles from positive to negative than high methoxyl pectin (0.025 wt %). Our results suggest that the addition of pectin to mixed LAE/Tween 20 micelles leads to the formation of electrostatic complexes that may be useful as functional ingredients in food and other products.
Effect of surfactants on sorption and desorption of phenanthrene onto black carbon.	Sorption and desorption of phenanthrene onto black carbon extracted from sediment were studied in the presence of a cationic surfactant (cetyltrimethylammonium bromide [CTAB]), an anionic surfactant (sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate [SDBS]), and a nonionic surfactant (Triton X-100 [TX100]), to examine the role of surfactants in sorption and desorption. Nonlinearity of the sorption isotherms increased in the presence of surfactants. The CTAB enhanced the sorption capacity and irreversibility of phenanthrene on black carbon. However, the presence of SDBS reduced the sorption capacity and desorption hysteresis. Unlike CTAB and SDBS, the influence of TX100 on sorption was concentration-dependent. Low levels of TX100 increased sorption, as a result of the sorption of TX100 on the black carbon surface. High levels of TX100 led to a decrease in sorption because of the solubilization of phenanthrene in TX100 solution. Our results may help to understand the different effects of surfactants on the distribution and transport of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in the environment.
Controlling the polymorph and morphology of CaCO3 crystals using surfactant mixtures.	Inspired by mineralization in biological organisms, fabrication of higher ordered CaCO(3) crystals modified by surfactants has received much attention. In our present work, mixed surfactants of hexadecyl(trimethyl)azanium bromide and sodium dodecyl sulfate were used to mediate the nucleation and growth of CaCO(3) crystals. When the concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate in the solution is constant (0.1 mM), the polymorph of CaCO(3) crystals changed from pure vaterite to pure aragonite with increase of the ratio of hexadecyl(trimethyl)azanium bromide to sodium dodecyl sulfate. Various morphologies of vaterite and aragonite were obtained. Based on the time-resolved experiments, we suggest that the flower-like CaCO(3) formed via aggregation of hexagon-like vaterite induced by the surfactants. More importantly, we realized that a cluster-shaped morphology of aragonite was produced through the nucleation of aragonite at the surfaces of the hexagon-like vaterite.
Interface dynamics under nonequilibrium conditions: from a self-propelled droplet to dynamic pattern evolution.	In this article, we describe the instability of a contact line under nonequilibrium conditions mainly based on the results of our recent studies. Two experimental examples are presented: the self-propelled motion of a liquid droplet and spontaneous dynamic pattern formation. For the self-propelled motion of a droplet, we introduce an experiment in which a droplet of aniline sitting on an aqueous layer moves spontaneously at an air-water interface. The spontaneous symmetry breaking of Marangoni-driven spreading causes regular motion. In a circular Petri dish, the droplet exhibits either beeline motion or circular motion. On the other hand, we show the emergence of a dynamic labyrinthine pattern caused by dewetting of a metastable thin film from the air-water interface. The contact line between the organic phase and the aqueous phase forms a unique spatio-temporal pattern characterized as a dynamic labyrinth. Motion of the contact line is controlled by diffusion processes. We propose a theoretical model to interpret essential aspects of the observed dynamic behavior.
Elastomeric hydrogels by polymerizing silicone microemulsions.	Robust, transparent elastomeric hydrogels encoded with a bicontinuous structure result from the sequential photopolymerization of the aqueous hydroxyethyl methacrylate phase and crosslinking of the silicone phase of a silicone microemulsion stabilized with an acrylate-functional silicone-poly(ethylene glycol) surfactant.
Formulation and pharmacokinetic evaluation of a paclitaxel nanosuspension for intravenous delivery.	Paclitaxel is a diterpenoid isolated from Taxus brevifolia. It is effective for various cancers, especially ovarian and breast cancer. Due to its aqueous insolubility, it is administered dissolved in ethanol and Cremophor EL (BASF, Ludwigshafen, Germany), which can cause serious allergic reactions. In order to eliminate Cremophor EL, paclitaxel was formulated as a nanosuspension by high-pressure homogenization. The nanosuspension was lyophilized to obtain the dry paclitaxel nanoparticles (average size, 214.4  15.03 nm), which enhanced both the physical and chemical stability of paclitaxel nanoparticles. Paclitaxel dissolution was also enhanced by the nanosuspension. Differential scanning calorimetry showed that the crystallinity of paclitaxel was preserved during the high-pressure homogenization process. The pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of paclitaxel were compared after intravenous administration of paclitaxel nanosuspension and paclitaxel injection. In rat plasma, paclitaxel nanosuspension exhibited a significantly (P < 0.01) reduced area under the concentration curve (AUC)(0-) (20.343  9.119 g  h  mL(-1) vs 5.196  1.426 g  h  mL(-1)), greater clearance (2.050  0.616 L  kg(-1)  h(-1) vs 0.556  0.190 L  kg(-1)  h(-1)), and shorter elimination half-life (5.646  2.941 vs 3.774  1.352 hours) compared with the paclitaxel solution. In contrast, the paclitaxel nanosuspension resulted in a significantly greater AUC(0-) in liver, lung, and spleen (all P < 0.01), but not in heart or kidney.
Fluorescent silicate materials for the detection of paraoxon.	Porphyrins are a family of highly conjugated molecules that strongly absorb visible light and fluoresce intensely. These molecules are sensitive to changes in their immediate environment and have been widely described for optical detection applications. Surfactant-templated organosilicate materials have been described for the semi-selective adsorption of small molecule contaminants. These structures offer high surface areas and large pore volumes within an organized framework. The organic bridging groups in the materials can be altered to provide varied binding characteristics. This effort seeks to utilize the tunable binding selectivity, high surface area, and low materials density of these highly ordered pore networks and to combine them with the unique spectrophotometric properties of porphyrins. In the porphyrin-embedded materials (PEMs), the organosilicate scaffold stabilizes the porphyrin and facilitates optimal orientation of porphyrin and target. The materials can be stored under ambient conditions and offer exceptional shelf-life. Here, we report on the design of PEMs with specificity for organophosphates and compounds of similar structure.
Toxicity of solvents and surfactants to Amblyomma cajennense (Fabricius, 1787) (Acari: Ixodidae) and Dermacentor nitens (Neumann, 1897) (Acari: Ixodidae) larvae.	The objective of this work was to verify the sensitivity of Amblyomma cajennense and Dermacentor nitens larvae to the solvents ethanol, methanol, acetone, xylol and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and the surfactant Tween 80. The first four solvents were tested at analytical purity while the DMSO and surfactant Tween 80 were tested at a concentration of 1%. The substances tested at analytical purity that caused high mortality were also tested at concentrations of 50%, 25% and 1%. The larval packet test was used, with 10 repetitions for each treatment. A control group was also formed with the same number of repetitions, in which the larvae were only exposed to distilled water. In the first experiment, only xylol was highly toxic at the concentrations tested, causing mortality above 90% for larvae of both species. In the second experiment, xylol at 1% and at 25% showed low toxicity to the A. cajennense and D. nitens larvae, respectively, since the percentage mortality was statistically similar to that of the control group (p>0.05).
Three-dimensional electrospun alginate nanofiber mats via tailored charge repulsions.	The formation of 3D electrospun mat structures from alginate-polyethylene oxide (PEO) solution blends is reported. These unique architectures expand the capabilities of traditional electrospun mats for applications such as regenerative medicine, where a scaffold can help to promote tissue growth in three dimensions. The mat structures extend off the surface of the flat collector plate without the need of any modifications in the electrospinning apparatus, are self-supported when the electric field is removed, and are composed of bundles of nanofibers. A mechanism for the unique formations is proposed, based on the fiber-fiber repulsions from surface charges on the negatively charged alginate. Furthermore, the role of the electric field in the distribution of alginate within the nanofibers is discussed. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy is used to analyze the surface composition of the electrospun nanofiber mats and the data is related to cast films made in the absence of the electric field. Further techniques to tailor the 3D architecture and nanofiber morphology by changing the surface tension and relative humidity are also discussed.
Biomolecule-directed assembly of self-supported, nanoporous, conductive, and luminescent single-walled carbon nanotube scaffolds.	A single-walled carbon nanotube self-suspended network of exceptionally low density is formed by DNA-streptavidin-assisted assembly where the DNA complex serves as a cross-shaped point connector. The macroscopic nanotube aerogel is conductive and luminescent and presents an excellent scaffold for subsequent functionalization. For example, platinum and titanium dioxide coating of the nanotube network is demonstrated.
Enhanced phytase production from Achromobacter sp. PB-01 using wheat bran as substrate: prospective application for animal feed.	This article deals with the optimization of the various parameters for production of phytase using Achromobacter sp. PB-01 in submerged fermentation (SmF). A semisynthetic medium containing ingredients of phytase screening media (PSM) supplemented with 2% (w/v) sucrose, 1% (w/v) peptone, and 10% (w/v) wheat bran was found to be the best production medium among the various combinations tried. Among various surfactants added to SmF, Triton X-100 (0.1%) exhibited a 16% increase in phytase activity. An overall 11.2 fold enhancement in enzyme activity (0.79 U/mL8.84 U/mL) was attained when SmF was carried out using 0.5% (v/v) inoculum of a 15 h old culture of Achromobacter sp. PB-01 at an initial pH of 5.5, temperature 30C and allowed to grow for 48 h. Presence of accessory hydrolytic enzymes in the crude extract further added value as feed additive by mediating efficient degradation of non-starch polysaccharides (NSP). In addition, we also investigated the efficacy of phytase on different agro-industrial residues using in vitro experiments that simulated the conditions of the digestive tract. Results indicate that phytase from our source hydrolyze phytate efficiently with the concomitant liberation of inorganic phosphate, protein, reducing sugar, and calcium.
Modeling foam delivery mechanisms in deep vadose-zone remediation using method of characteristics.	This study investigates foam delivery mechanisms in vadose-zone remediation by using Method of Characteristics (MoC), a mathematical tool long been used for the analysis of miscible and immiscible flooding in porous media in petroleum industry. MoC converts the governing material-balance partial differential equations into a series of ordinary differential equations, and the resulting solutions are in a form of wave propagation (more specifically, for chemical species and phase saturations) through the system as a function of time and space. Deep vadose-zone remediation has special features compared to other conventional remediation applications. They include, not limited to, a high level of heterogeneity, a very dry initial condition with low water saturation (S(w)), pollutants such as metals and radionuclides fully dissolved in groundwater, and a serious concern about downward migration during the remediation treatments. For the vadose-zone remediation processes to be successful, the injected aqueous phase should carry chemicals to react with pollutants and precipitate them for immobilization and stabilization purposes. As a result, foams are believed to be an effective means, and understanding foam flow mechanism in situ is a key to the optimal design of field applications. Results show that foam delivery mechanism is indeed very complicated, making the optimum injection condition field-specific. The five major parameters selected (i.e., initial saturation of the medium, injection foam quality, surfactant adsorption, foam strength, and foam stability) are shown to be all important, interacting with each other. Results also imply that although dry foam injection is generally recommended, too dry injection condition is found to hurt this process due to slow foam propagation.
Formulation of a danazol cocrystal with controlled supersaturation plays an essential role in improving bioavailability.	Cocrystals have become an established and adopted approach for creating crystalline solids with improved physical properties, but incorporating cocrystals into enabling pre-clinical formulations suitable for animal dosing has received limited attention. The dominant approach to in vivo evaluation of cocrystals has focused on deliberately excluding additional formulation in favor of "neat" aqueous suspensions of cocrystals or loading neat cocrystal material into capsules. However, this study demonstrates that, in order to take advantage of the improved solubility of a 1:1 danazol:vanillin cocrystal, a suitable formulation was required. The neat aqueous suspension of the danazol:vanillin cocrystal had a modest in vivo improvement of 1.7 times higher area under the curve compared to the poorly soluble crystal form of danazol dosed under identical conditions, but the formulated aqueous suspension containing 1% vitamin E-TPGS (TPGS) and 2% Klucel LF Pharm hydroxypropylcellulose improved the bioavailability of the cocrystal by over 10 times compared to the poorly soluble danazol polymorph. In vitro powder dissolution data obtained under non-sink biorelevant conditions correlate with in vivo data in rats following 20 mg/kg doses of danazol. In the case of the danazol:vanillin cocrystal, using a combination of cocrystal, solubilizer, and precipitation inhibitor in a designed supersaturating drug delivery system resulted in a dramatic improvement in the bioavailability. When suspensions of neat cocrystal material fail to return the anticipated bioavailability increase, a supersaturating formulation may be able to create the conditions required for the increased cocrystal solubility to be translated into improved in vivo absorption at levels competitive with existing formulation approaches used to overcome solubility limited bioavailability. 
Capillary zone electrophoresis of quantum dots dispersed in mixed micelles: new evidence of the concentration effect.	CZE was applied to characterizing a nanoparticle/micellar system, in which CdSe nanoparticles dispersed in a mixture of non-ionic and ionic surfactants are introduced into a capillary to form the sample zone that migrates being sandwiched by the background electrolyte (BGE). Parameters that affect the migration of the surface-modified CdSe nanoparticles and conditions under which they are focused within the micellar zone (or released from it into bulk BGE) were explored, including the sample composition, sample plug length, and applied voltage. The observed migration behavior was analyzed within the framework of a concept of formation of a mixed pseudomicellar system, according to which a nanoparticle coated with an ionic surfactant is treated as a micelle-like entity. It was found out that the nanoparticles are subject to transformation that results in building-up a mixed pseudomicellar system (with regular micelles), with a consequence of exhibiting distinctive migration phenomena. Particularly observed and brought into focus is the event of focusing of the nanoparticles. 
Adsorption, structural alteration and elution of peptides at pendant PEO layers.	An experimentally based, quantitative understanding of the entrapment and function of small peptides within PEO brush layers does not currently exist. Earlier work provided a rationale for expecting that an ordered, compact peptide will enter the PEO phase more readily than a peptide of similar size that adopts a less ordered, less compact form, and that amphiphilicity will promote peptide retention within the hydrophobic region of the PEO brush. Here we more deliberately describe criteria for peptide integration and structural change within the PEO brush, and discuss the reversibility of peptide entrapment with changing solvent conditions. For this purpose, circular dichroism (CD) was used to record the adsorption and conformational changes of (amphiphilic) WLBU2 and (non-amphiphilic) polyarginine peptides at uncoated (hydrophobic) and PEO-coated silica nanoparticles. Peptide conformation was controlled between disordered and -helical forms by varying the concentration of perchlorate ion. We show an initially more ordered (-helical) structure promotes peptide adsorption into the PEO layer. Further, a partially helical peptide undergoes an increase in helicity after entry, likely due to concomitant loss of capacity for peptide-solvent hydrogen bonding. Peptide interaction with the PEO chains resulted in entrapment and conformational change that was irreversible to elution with changing solution conditions in the case of the amphiphilic peptide. In contrast, the adsorption and conformational change of the non-amphiphilic peptide was reversible. These results indicate that responsive drug delivery systems based on peptide-loaded PEO layers can be controlled by modulation of solution conditions and peptide amphiphilicity. 
Self nanoemulsifying drug delivery system (SNEDDS) of rosuvastatin calcium: design, formulation, bioavailability and pharmacokinetic evaluation.	The aim of the present study is to improve solubility and bioavailability of Rosuvastatin calcium using self nanoemulsifying drug delivery system (SNEDDS). Self emulsifying property of various oils including essential oils was evaluated with suitable surfactants and co-surfactants. Ternary phase diagrams were constructed based on Rosuvastatin calcium solubility analysis for optimizing the system. The prepared formulations were evaluated for self emulsifying time, robustness to dilution, droplet size determination and zeta potential analysis. The system was found to be robust in different pH media and dilution volume. The globule size of the optimized system was less than 200nm which could be an acceptable nanoemulsion size range. The zeta potential of the selected CN 7 SNEDDS formulation (cinnamon oil 30%; labrasol 60%; Capmul MCM C8 10%) was -29.50.63 with an average particle size distribution of 122nm. In vitro drug release studies showed remarkable increase in dissolution of CN7 SNEDDS compared to marketed formulation. In house developed HPLC method for determination of Rosuvastatin calcium in rat plasma was used in the bioavailability and pharmacokinetic evaluation. The relative bioavailability of self nanoemulsified formulation showed an enhanced bioavailability of 2.45 times greater than that of drug in suspension. The obtained plasma drug concentration data was processed with PKSolver 2.0 and it was best fit into the one compartment model. 
Relaxation phenomena in systems of protein-containing reverse micelles of surfactants in organic solvents]	The research was aimed to establish the equilibrium processes in protein-containing systems of AOT reverse micelles in octane. As chromophore label for tracing the kinetics of the process, the acid-base indicator, p-nitrophenol, was used. The establishing of the equilibrium in the reverse micelle system notably decelerated in the presence of a solubilized protein (native and stearoylated alpha-chymotrypsin). During the establishing of the equilibrium, the solubilized enzyme can be irreversibly inactivated. The level of the residual activity of the enzyme in the equilibrium system depended on the procedure of micellar system preparation. The methods have been offered to set up the equilibrium in the reverse micelle system without inactivation of the solubilized enzyme.
Dissipative particle dynamics simulation on paclitaxel loaded PEO-PPO-PEO block copolymer micelles.	Self-assembly behavior of the polymer drug loading micelle PEO-PPO-PEO was studied using dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) simulation method with various simulation steps. The distributions of drugs in polymer carriers were also investigated with different drug feed ratios. Polymer carriers distributed on the surface of the spherical micelle, and drugs were almost encapsulated in the inner of the micelle. Our simulation work demonstrates that the DPD simulation is effective to study the drug loaded systems and can give useful guidance on the design and preparation of new drug carriers with tailored properties.
Use of micelles in studying drug-binding sites: simulation of the tubulin-bound fluorescence of colchicine.	Enhancement of the fluorescence intensity of colchicine occurs in media of low polarity and appreciable viscosity; this is suggested to be the basis of the intensification of its fluorescence when it is bound to and immobilized in tubulin. We show here that the tubulin-bound fluorescence features of colchicine are largely reconstructed upon solubilizing it in chosen micellar aggregates that offer optimal polarities and microviscosities. Triton X-100 and bile salt micelles intensify the colchicine emission but the maximal effects are obtained with tetrameric aggregates of the peptide melittin. Estimates of the polarity, microviscosity and binding-site dimensions of colchicine are obtained using this mimetic approach. Our results suggest that well chosen micellar systems act as good models to reconstruct and analyze the spectral properties of molecules immobilized in their binding sites.
Lipoxygenase inhibitory activity of alkyl protocatechuates.	Alkyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoates (protocatechuates) inhibited linoleic acid peroxidation catalyzed by soybean lipoxygenase-1 (EC 1.13.11.12, Type 1). Their inhibitory activities displayed a parabolic function of their lipophilicity and maximized with alkyl chain lengths of between C11 and C14. Tetradecanyl protocatechuate exhibited the most potent inhibition with an IC50 of 0.05 M, followed by dodecyl (lauryl) protocatechuate with an IC50 of 0.06 M. However, their parent compound, protocatechuic acid, did not show this inhibitory activity up to 200 M, indicating that the alkyl chain length is significantly related to the inhibition activity. The allosteric (or cooperative) inhibition of soybean lipoxygenase-1 of longer alkyl protocatechuates is reversible but in combination with their iron binding ability to disrupt the active site competitively and to interact with the hydrophobic portion surrounding near the active site (sequential action). In the case of dodecyl protocatechuate, the enzyme quickly binds this protocatechuate and then its dodecyl group undergoes a slow interaction with the hydrophobic domain in close proximity to the active site in the enzyme. The inhibition kinetics analyzed by Lineweaver-Burk plots indicates that octyl protocatechuate is a competitive inhibitor and the inhibition constant (Ki) was obtained as 0.23 M but dodecyl protocatechuate is a slow binding inhibitor.
Zwitterionic and anionic forms of a serotonin analog as transport substrates.	4,6-Difluoroserotonin, a serotonin analog with an acidic 5-hydroxyl proton (pK alpha = 7.97) relative to serotonin (pK alpha = 10.73), was tested as a substrate for the biogenic amine transporter of bovine chromaffin granules and the plasma membrane serotonin transporter of human blood platelets. The platelet serotonin transporter transports this analog with identical rates as those for serotonin, both at pH 6.7, where the hydroxyl group is predominantly protonated and at pH 9, where it is largely dissociated. In contrast, the chromaffin granule biogenic amine transporter prefers the form of 4,6-difluoroserotonin with a protonated 5-hydroxyl group. Thus, the KM for 4,6-difluoroserotonin increases, and Vmax decreases (relative to the values for serotonin) as the pH increases from 7 to 9. This effect may reflect a specific requirement for the protonated hydroxyl group in substrate translocation, as opposed to binding, since the KI for 4,6-difluoroserotonin inhibition of serotonin transport is the same as the KM for serotonin from pH 7 to 9.
Solubilization, characterization, and detergent interactions of lymphocyte 5'-nucleotidase.	5'-Nucleotidase is a member of a recently identified class of membrane proteins that is anchored via a phosphatidylinositol-containing glycolipid. The enzyme was readily solubilized with full retention of catalytic activity by nonionic and anionic detergents such as alkylthioglucosides, deoxycholate, and 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propane-sulfonate (CHAPS), while the cationic detergent dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide (DTAB) caused loss of activity. 5'-Nucleotidase was released only at high detergent concentrations, suggesting that it is tightly associated with the membrane. DTAB and deoxycholate caused a loss of heat stability, while alkylthioglucosides had no effect. CHAPS produced a remarkable increase in the heat stability of the partially purified (glycoprotein fraction) and purified enzyme. Arrhenius plots of solubilized 5'-nucleotidase showed "break points" for all detergents in the temperature range 30-37 degrees C. SDS-PAGE of pure 5'-nucleotidase showed a single subunit of molecular mass 70 kilodaltons (kDa), while sucrose density gradient sedimentation gave a peak of activity corresponding to 132 kDa, indicating that the enzyme exists as a dimer. Gel filtration of the solubilized enzyme in several detergents showed apparent molecular masses between 200-630 kDa, suggesting that lymphocyte 5'-nucleotidase may be present in high molecular mass aggregates in its native state.
Comparison of non-ionic detergents for extraction and ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography of Sendai virus integral membrane proteins.	The integral membrane proteins of Sendai virus haemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) and fusion protein (F) were extracted from purified virions with 2% of a non-ionic detergent, i.e., polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers varying by 8-14 hydrocarbon units in the alkyl chain and by 4-8 ethylene glycol units in the oxyethylene chain. Triton X-100 and octyl glucoside were included as reference detergents. The hydrophile-lipophile balance (HLB) and the critical micelle concentration (CMC) of the detergents were determined. A decrease in length of the oxyethylate by 8-5 ethylene glycol units and an increase in the alkylate by 8-12 hydrocarbon units resulted in higher yields of extracted proteins. The highest yields were obtained for C12E5 with an HLB of 11.7. Yields of extracted protein could be correlated with the HLB values of the polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers. The structural integrity of HN and F was not affected during extraction by either detergent as measured by their reactivity with monoclonal antibodies directed against native HN and F. Extracts were subjected to anion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a Mono Q column in the presence of 0.1% of the detergent used for extraction. Eluate fractions were analysed by sodium dodecyl polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and recoveries of HN and F protein were determined by size-exclusion HPLC. The immunological activity of HN and F was tested in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The highest recoveries of HN and F (80%) were obtained with C10E5 in the elution buffer. HN and F were partially purified and the immunological activity was well preserved.
Penetration of fluoride-containing self-gelling liquids into human molar occlusal fissures in vitro.	In this in vitro study the ability and speed of self-gelling liquid compositions to penetrate into fissures were evaluated. Two formulations containing either tetraethylsilicate, ammonium fluoride, and sodium lauryl sulfate or tetraethylsilicate, sodium fluoride, and cetylpyridinium chloride at different concentrations were used. It is shown that fissure penetration occurs when a certain minimum content of surface-active agent is present. Fissure penetration is achieved within 3-4 s, according to the fissure morphology.
Interactions of detergents with phospholipid bilayers at sublytic concentrations--partition or binding?]	Using the bubble pressure method the interaction of liposomes with detergents at sublytic concentrations was studied. The results are discussed in terms of a partition or binding model. The findings support an equilibrium partition of the surfactant between the aquous and lipid phase. For some detergents, however, concentration dependent partition coefficients were found.
Crystal structure of a zwitterionic detergent: n-octyl-2-hydroxyethylsulfoxide.	The crystal structure of n-octyl-2-hydroxyethylsulfoxide (1) (space group P2(1)/c, a = 16.516(7), b = 9.053(4), c = 8.222(4) A, beta = 97.58 degrees) was determined by X-ray diffraction methods to 0.94 A resolution and refined to R = 0.050 (Rw = 0.052). In the crystal lattice the molecules are not arranged tail-to-tail, as usually observed with amphiphilic compounds, but head-to-tail and aligned in the a-axis direction. They form layers in the b, c plane which are interdigitated such that adjacent molecules in one layer are in antiparallel orientation. The packing is stabilized by intermolecular hydrogen bonds O-H--O-S. No solvent molecules were detectable.
Micellar solubilization of a new antimalarial drug, beta-arteether.	beta-Arteether (1) is a new antimalarial drug derived from artemisinin (2, quinghaosu). Compound 1 is quite water insoluble, but very soluble in a variety of organic solvents. Solubilization in a variety of surfactants was investigated to obtain higher concentrations of 1 in aqueous solutions. Anionic and cationic surfactants exhibited dramatic solubilizing ability for 1, while nonionic surfactants showed significantly lower solubilizing ability. The solubilization data are analyzed on the basis of a pseudo-phase model with 1 exhibiting a high partition coefficient into the micellar phase. An empirical model is presented to identify the possible sites of solubilization of 1 in the micelle.
Release studies from lyotropic liquid crystal systems.	A temperature-composition diagram of systems containing the nonionic surfactant polyoxethylene (20) isohexadecyl ether (1) and water was established. Three different anisotropic areas existed over the concentration range 33-80% of 1. Release of salicylic acid from liquid crystalline phases of 1 into aqueous buffer across lipoidal barriers was also studied. Rates of transfer as a function of percent loading from a neat mesophase containing 37% of 1 and also from systems with different molecular packing were determined. Apparent activation energies of transfer from an ordered solvent containing 37% of 1 and from an isotropic medium of the same chemical composition were found to be 33.3 and 9.4 kcal/mol, respectively. These findings suggest a pronounced effect of medium structure on the interfacial resistance of the barrier.
Differential detergent solubility investigation of thermally induced transitions in cytochrome c oxidase.	The thermal denaturation of membrane-reconstituted cytochrome c oxidase (EC 1.9.3.1) occurs at approximately 63 degrees C as determined by high-sensitivity differential scanning calorimetry. The heat capacity profile associated with this process is characterized by the presence of two well-defined peaks, indicating that all the enzyme subunits do not have the same thermal stability. This thermal denaturation of the enzyme complex is coupled to a change in its solubility properties. This change in solubility allows separation of the native and denatured protein fractions by detergent solubilization followed by centrifugation under conditions in which only the native fraction is solubilized. Using this principle, it has been possible to study the denaturation of membrane-reconstituted cytochrome c oxidase and quantitatively identify the protein subunits undergoing thermal denaturation using computer-assisted gel electrophoresis analysis. This technique allows calculation of single-subunit thermal denaturation profiles within the intact enzyme complex, and as such, it can be used to obtain transition temperatures, molecular populations, and van't Hoff enthalpy changes for individual protein subunits, thus complementing results obtained by high-sensitivity differential scanning calorimetry.
A performance comparison of select alkylbenzene and detergent based liquid scintillation cocktails.	Tritium was employed in the evaluation of performance characteristics for six commercially available cocktails represented by the manufacturers to possess favorable disposal characteristics. Unidentified alkylbenzene organic solvents and/or triton-like detergents form the basis for these cocktails, which were evaluated in large (20 mL) and mini (7 mL) glass and polyethylene vials. The cocktails showed higher backgrounds, lower unquenched efficiencies, and greater quench resistance to nitromethane than a reference toluene based preparation. Detergent based cocktails were difficult to dispense accurately, and resisted sample incorporation. One cocktail lacked stability in polyethylene vials.
Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of several proteins in the presence of sodium oligooxyethylene dodecyl ether sulfates or a commercially available analog.	The behavior of water-soluble proteins and a typical membrane protein in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was studied in the presence of sodium oligooxyethylene dodecyl ether sulfates with a defined number of oxyethylene units or a commercially available analog with distribution and heterogeneity for the oxyethylene chain length and alkyl group, respectively. It was concluded that most water-soluble proteins do not interact with the anionic surfactants as long as their oxyethylene chain lengths are sufficiently long; the commercially available surfactant binds exceptionally well to beta-lactoglobulin without causing denaturation and subsequent dissociation; such surfactants are expected to solubilize membrane proteins without causing denaturation as judged from the result with Na+,K+-ATPase and are promising as new solubilizing agents for membrane proteins which enable efficient electrophoretic analysis or separation after the solubilization.
Pathogen specificity of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum integral membrane proteins identified by phase partitioning with Triton X-114.	The antigenically conserved proteins of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum and four nonpathogenic cultivatable treponemes were investigated by phase partitioning with the nonionic detergent Triton X-114 and immunoblot analysis. None of the T. pallidum integral membrane proteins identified by phase partitioning (detergent-phase proteins) appeared to be antigenically related to proteins of the nonpathogens. Protease-resistant material similar to lipopolysaccharide was identified in the detergent phase from T. phagedenis biotype Reiter but was not detected in T. pallidum.
Optimization of hydrophile-lipophile balance for improved efficacy of Newcastle disease and avian influenza oil-emulsion vaccines.	Preparations of inactivated Newcastle disease (ND) and avian influenza (AI) oil-emulsion vaccines with surfactant hydrophile-lipophile-balance (HLB) values between 4.3 and 9.5 were evaluated for their efficacy in broiler-type white rock chickens. Chickens were vaccinated at 3-4 weeks of age and bled at 2-week intervals over 8 weeks. Post-vaccinal hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) geometric mean titers (reciprocals) ranged from 197 to 485 for ND vaccines and from 184 to 1040 for AI vaccines. Based on the HI response, an HLB value of 7.0 induced the greatest stimulation of antibody titers. Ten percent surfactant in the oil phase of the vaccines induced maximum titers at this HLB. The oil:aqueous ratios of the vaccines did not greatly influence the overall serologic response when the vaccines had an HLB of 7.0. These results indicate that manipulating surfactant HLB values of OE vaccine may maximize the HI response in broilers.
The determination and interpretation of in-vitro dissolution behavior of pharmaceutical substances. 1. Powders, mixtures and granules]	Dissolution testing of hydrophobic powders with the flow-through method but without powder preparation doesn't guarantee accurate, reproducible and reasonable results in aqueous test media of high surface tension. Mixing drug powders with seasand or using fast desintegrating granules enables an exact determination and realistic valuation of the dissolution behaviour. Addition of surfactants generally accelerates the dissolution rate but problems as drug agglomeration and flotation remain.
Nitrofurantoin not surface active agent in rabbit urinary bladder.	It has been recently suggested that nitrofurantoin may induce symptoms of interstitial cystitis by acting as a surface active agent that destroys glycosaminoglycan (GAG) on the bladder surface. Evidence accumulated over the past decade has demonstrated that the bladder surface GAG prevents bacterial adherence. In this experiment, exposure of the bladder lumen to nitrofurantoin at more than twice the therapeutic concentration did not destroy the bladder GAG layer (as evidenced by periodic acid-Schiff histochemistry) nor increase bacterial adherence as did a true surface active agent (Triton X-100). Acid treatment as well as all tested organic solvents except 50% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) also removed the bladder GAG layer and increased bacterial adherence. These results indicate that neither nitrofurantoin nor 50% DMSO has adverse effects on the bladder surface and thus is unlikely to initiate the interstitial cystitis symptom complex by means of surfactant activity.
On the evaluation of gas-liquid interfacial effects on hybridoma viability in bubble column bioreactors.	Sparger aeration, with or without mechanical agitation is the simplest method of providing an oxygen supply. Although earlier workers have demonstrated the sensitivity of mammalian cells to air bubbles, recent successful applications of the airlift principle to hybridoma culture indicate that under some conditions, the cells can withstand these effects. Therefore, this work has as its objective the elucidation of the relationship between gas-liquid interfaces and the survival of mammalian cells. Simple, 0.5 litre bubble columns with sintered discs are used batch-wise to study the effects of sparging on hybridomas and other mammalian cells in suspension culture. The effects of bubble diameters, superficial gas velocities and the non-ionic surfactant, Pluriol PE 6800, are investigated in cultures grown in RPM1 1640 with 5% foetal calf serum and 6 ppm silicone antifoam. From these studies it has become apparent that cell viability and survival in the presence of bubbles depend on: Cell type--Some cell lines are shown to be particularly sensitive to the presence of bubbles, although no gross morphological differences are detected by electron microscopy. Bubble sizes--At a superficial gas velocity of 0.42 X 10(-4)m/s (5 cc/min gas flow rate), small bubbles are shown to be more detrimental to the cells than the larger ones. Bubble frequency/superficial gas velocities--Increasing superficial gas velocities (0.42 X 10(-4) to 8.5 X 10(-4) m/s) result in decreasing cell viability. Where the presence of bubbles is detrimental to cell growth, the addition of the non-ionic surfactant, Pluriol PE 6800, has a concentration dependent protective effect. Surface tension, viscosity and bubble diameter data for typical medium will be presented. A novel application of microscopy to which video film systems can be applied for direct visualisation of the cells in the bubble column has been developed. From these studies, it is indicative that both the geometry of the system and the cell type are important in mammalian cell culture scale-up strategy.
Influence of adjuvants on physicochemical properties, droplet size spectra and deposit patterns: relevance in pesticide applications.	The influence of adjuvants on physicochemical properties, droplet size spectra and deposit patterns of five aqueous spray mixtures was studied under laboratory conditions, using two surfactants, Atlox 3409F and Triton X-114; two humectants, propylene glycol and glycerol; and one polymeric adjuvant, Agrisol FL-100F. For the sake of comparison, two fenitrothion formulations containing polymeric adjuvants, and water were also included in the study. Spray was applied at 25 degrees C and 75 +/- 5% relative humidity, in an enclosure using a twin fluid atomizer. Deposits were collected on Kromekote card/glass plate units. Physicochemical properties studied were: relative viscosity, surface tension, apparent viscosity-shear rate relationship, volatility, pH and conductance. The first four of these properties played significant roles on the droplet and deposit patterns on sampling units. However, the chemical nature of the adjuvants also played some role. Between the two surfactants tested, Triton X-114 provided a pseudoplastic medium, but both surfactant solutions provided similar droplet size spectra and deposit patterns. Between the two humectants, glycerol proved to be more advantageous than propylene glycol. The polymeric adjuvant provided droplet sizes similar to those of the two surfactants, although the recovery of the applied spray volume was higher. Among the two fenitrothion formulations, the one containing lower amounts of polymeric adjuvants showed some advantages, although deposits on the actual biological target should be examined before any definite conclusions can be drawn on the optimum adjuvant concentrations in end-use formulations.
Binding of a nonionic detergent to membranes: flip-flop rate and location on the bilayer.	The kinetic aspects of amphiphile interaction with intact membranes (unilamellar and multilamellar liposomes, sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles) were studied, with the nonionic detergent octa(ethylene glycol) dodecyl monoether (C12E8) as a prototype. C12E8 was bound to these membranes noncooperatively and with a maximum of 0.6-0.8 mol per mole of phospholipid, before the onset of solubilization. Binding was not affected by ultrasonication to expose internal binding sites on the inner leaflet. All detergent could be removed from the membranes by treatment with hydrophobic beads. Furthermore, bound detergent, also from the inside of multilayered liposomes, comprising 10-20 bilayers, was quickly released by dilution of the membranes, followed by gel filtration. The time course of these processes was investigated with a rapid-filtration apparatus, using glass fiber filters to deposit membrane material. Both detergent binding and removal could be described by a monoexponential process with a half-time of approximately 350 ms for all types of membranes. Binding of detergent enhanced the intrinsic fluorescence of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles. This occurred in less than 100 ms, probably as the result of direct interaction of C12E8 with Ca2+-ATPase at a few binding sites. The data show that flip-flop of C12E8 across lipid membranes is a rapid process that cannot account for incomplete detergent removal in reconstitution experiments [Ueno, M., Tanford, C., & Reynolds, J. A. (1984) Biochemistry 23, 3070-3076]. It is also suggested that other nonionized amphiphiles, including those with an anesthetic action, rapidly gain access to membrane proteins on the inside of the cell, even when used at low, clinical doses.
The influence of membrane composition on the solubilizing effects of Triton X-100.	Multilamellar liposomes containing pure phosphatidylcholine (PC) or mixtures of PC with cholesterol, cholesteryl palmitate, beta-carotene, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine or gramicidin A have been treated with the detergent Triton X-100. Solubilization has been monitored as a decrease in turbidity of the liposome suspension, and also by determination of bilayer components in the solubilized fraction. The same solubilization pattern is found for unsaturated (egg yolk) or saturated (dimyristoyl) PC. Similar results are also found when dimyristoyl PC is solubilized above or below its gel-to-fluid transition temperature. Cholesterol solubilizes in parallel with PC; gramicidin A is solubilized preferentially to this phospholipid and the non-polar lipids cholesteryl palmitate or beta-carotene remain insoluble at detergent concentrations producing complete PC solubilization. Addition of cardiolipin or phosphatidylethanolamine does not seem to alter the general pattern of PC solubilization. Phosphatidylethanolamine is less soluble than PC, while cardiolipin solubilizes at the same detergent concentrations than PC. These results are considered in relation to previous studies with natural membranes.
Influence of some variables in the Triton X-100 method of skinning the plasmalemmal membrane from guinea pig trachealis muscle.	Electron microscopy showed that the process of skinning guinea pig trachaelis muscle using Triton X-100 destroys the plasma membranes and causes some retraction of the myofibrils toward the center of the cells. Seven days represents an optimal period for the low temperature storage of the skinned fibers. Increasing the imposed tension from 0.25 to 1.0 g reduces the size of the maximal response to Ca2+. Some sensitization of the skinned fibers to Ca2+ follows the construction of the initial Ca2+ log concentration-response curve. Exogenous calmodulin is not essential for Ca2+-induced tension development and, at 20 degrees C, does not potentiate Ca2+. Useful economy can be achieved without compromising Ca2+ sensitivity or responsiveness by using ATP (a component of the relaxing solution) of purity 99% rather than of 99-100%.
Displacement of sodium ions by surfactant ions from DNA. A 23Na-NMR investigation.	23Na-NMR probes the ionic composition in the immediate vicinity of the DNA molecule, in the presence of a series of quaternary ammonium bromides, of varying hydrocarbon chain length. The 23Na-NMR line shows two Lorentzian components, in accordance with quadrupolar relaxation theory for S = 3/2 nuclei under slow modulation. Deconvolution of the observed lineshape provides, in a reliable manner, the relative fraction of sodium counterions neutralizing the phosphate sites on DNA. This quantity (p B chi 2) serves as an index of the relative affinities of various surfactant ions toward DNA, Na+ being the reference cation. The results are consistent with site binding of detergent ions to the nucleic acid, an interaction dominated by hydrophobic forces.
Solubilization of water by hydrotropic salts.	The effect of some electrolytes, nonelectrolytes, surfactants, and hydrotropic salts on the solubility of water in 1-butanol and 1-hexanol was investigated. While sodium chloride and sodium acetate decrease the solubility of water in 1-butanol, urea has no significant effect. The ionic surfactants, sodium lauryl sulfate and cetrimide, cause an initial decrease in the solubility of water in 1-butanol followed by an increase at high surfactant concentrations. The nonionic surfactant, polysorbate 20, does not show the initial decrease in water solubility. On the other hand, the hydrotropic salts, sodium benzoate, sodium salicylate, and sodium gentisate, are shown to be the best water solubilizers in 1-butanol. Sodium salicylate showed the maximum solubilizing power. The effect of sodium benzoate, sodium salicylate, and sodium lauryl sulfate on the solubility of water in 1-hexanol was also investigated. Similar results were obtained.
Substructures and polypeptides of Visna virus.	The protein of Visna virus, disrupted by 8 M guanidine hydrochloride and heating, was resolved into 10 polypeptides by agarose gel column chromatography in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride. Two of the peaks contained glycopolypeptides. Nonidet-disrupted virions were resolved into two fractions by potassium tartrate gradient centrifugation, with densities of 1.08 and 1.24 g/ml, respectively. About 70% of the viral DNA polymerase directed by added template was released into the light fraction, in which very little endogenous enzyme activity was detected. Also released into the light fraction were all of the glycopolypeptides, 50% of the viral RNA, and a part of each of the other viral protein components. The data indicate that extensive degradation of subviral structures occurred, even under mild conditions for virion disruption. The 1.24-g/ml fraction was composed of 50% of the viral RNA, most of the endogenous DNA polymerase activity (80%), and a major internal polypeptide (GuHCl6) with an estimated mol wt of 28,000. Two other polypeptides were also consistently detected in the heavy fraction, but they constituted less than 25% of the ribonucleoprotein complex, compared with 75% for GuHCl6.
Electron transport in a Park-Williams strain of Corynebacterium diphtheriae.	1. The electron-transport mechanism was examined in the ;particulate' and ;supernatant' fractions of disintegrated cells of a Park-Williams strain of Corynebacterium diphtheriae. 2. Succinate-oxidase activity was found mainly in the ;particulate' fraction, and NADH(2) oxidase mainly in the ;supernatant', which was devoid of cytochromes and menaquinone. 3. The sum of the activities of particles and supernatant fractions, with respect to both succinate oxidase and NADH(2) oxidase, was substantially less than that of the crude cell extract from which they were obtained. Full activity was restored on recombining ;particles' and ;supernatant'. The characteristics of this reassembled system were investigated. 4. The strain of organism (CN2000) examined contained cytochromes corresponding spectroscopically to ;a', ;b' and ;c' types. All three were reduced by succinate, lactate or NADH(2); but a portion of the cytochrome b, susceptible to reduction by dithionite, could not be reduced by the substrates. 5. Triton X-100 inhibits oxidation of succinate by particulate fraction; on adding succinate, the reduction of cytochrome b is not affected but that of cytochromes a and c is delayed. 6. Irradiation at 360mmu completely destroys menaquinone in the particle fraction. Succinate oxidation is severely decreased; succinate dehydrogenase and NADH(2) oxidation are little affected. Certain menaquinones will restore succinate oxidation in the irradiated material. 7. On adding succinate to irradiated particulate material cytochrome b is partially reduced at once, but reduction of cytochromes a and c is much delayed. A portion of the cytochrome b remains not reduced, but reduction occurs rapidly on the addition of menaquinone (MK-2).
Protection of vaccinia from heat inactivation by nucleotide triphosphates.	The presence of adenosine triphosphate, guanosine triphosphate, cytosine triphosphate, or uridine triphosphate reduced the rate of inactivation of vaccinia when heated at 50 C. The virus-associated nucleoside triphosphate phosphohydrolases (adenosine triphosphatase, guanosine triphosphatase, cytosine triphosphatase, and uridine triphosphatase) and ribonucleic acid polymerase were also protected from heat inactivation by these compounds. These obervations are best explained by postulating that ribonucleoside triphosphates bind to enzymes in the virus particle, and that these enzyme-substrate complexes are more resistant to thermal denaturation than are the enzymes without their substrates. The kinetics of heat inactivation of the vaccinia ATP phosphohydrolase activity is biphasic, suggesting that there are two proteins in the vaccinia particle that have this enzyme activity but they have different kinetics of heat inactivation. Any of the vaccinia-associated nucleotide phosphohydrolase activities are protected from heat inactivation by the presence of any one of the respective nucleoside triphosphates. This observation suggests that there is a single enzymatic site in vaccinia that is able to react with any ribonucleoside triphosphate.
Ribonucleic acid polymerase activity in Sendai virions and nucleocapsid.	After dissociation of purified Sendai virus with the neutral detergent Nonidet P-40 and 2-mercaptoethanol, it catalyzed the incorporation of ribonucleoside triphosphates into an acid-insoluble product. The enzyme activity was associated with viral nucleocapsid as well as whole virions. The reaction product was ribonucleic acid (RNA) which annealed specifically with virion RNA. Sedimentation of the (3)H-RNA reaction product revealed two components, a 45S component with properties of double-stranded RNA and 4 to 6S component which appeared to be mostly single-stranded RNA.
Properties of nonheme iron in a cell envelope fraction from Escherichia coli.	The reaction with o-phenanthroline of nonheme iron found in cell envelope fractions from Escherichia coli has been investigated. About 20% of the total nonheme iron reacts directly with o-phenanthroline. This iron appears to be in the ferric state but is reducible by protein sulfhydryl groups in the presence of the chelating agent. A further 20% of the nonheme iron will react with o-phenanthroline only in the presence of dithionite. Succinate can replace dithionite but only produces about 35% of the reaction given by dithionite. The reduction of cytochrome b(1) of the respiratory chain by succinate shows similar behavior to the reaction of iron with o-phenanthroline in the presence of succinate. Both of these components react completely only in the presence of 2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide. The remaining 60% of the nonheme iron of the cell envelope will not react with o-phenanthroline even in the presence of dithionite or 6 m urea. Triton X-100 with dithionite will permit a small part (10%) of this iron to react with o-phenanthroline. The iron which does not react with o-phenanthroline is not associated with succinate, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, or d-lactate dehydrogenases.
Ribonucleic acid transcriptases in Sendai Virions and infected cells.	Sendai virions contain an enzyme which catalyzes the incorporation of ribonucleotides into ribonucleic acid (RNA). Enzyme activity was optimal at pH 8.0 and 28 C; otherwise conditions were similar to those reported for Newcastle disease virion (NDV) RNA polymerase. The initial rate of RNA synthesis by the Sendai virion enzyme was about 10 pmoles per mg of protein per hr, but after 3 hr of incubation the rate increased about fivefold. The virion enzyme was compared with an RNA polymerase in the microsomal fraction of infected cells. Both enzymes made predominantly single-stranded RNA which was complementary in base sequences to 50S virion RNA. Most of the RNA synthesized by the virion polymerase sedimented at 16S, but the product of the microsomal enzyme sedimented at about 8S.
Partial purification of a membrane-associated deoxyribonucleic acid complex from Mycoplasma gallisepticum.	A Mycoplasma gallisepticum subcellular fraction (P2), which contains the deoxyribonucleic acid replication complex, can be isolated by differential centrifugation of freeze-thaw-lysed cells. The nascent deoxyribonucleic acid is released from P2 by Lubrol-WX, sodium dodecyl sulfate, Pronase, and deoxyribonuclease, but not by saponin, ribonuclease, phospholipase C, or high-frequency sonic treatment. Sonic treatment further fractionates the cell ghost and allows partial purification, on sucrose density gradients, of a deoxyribonucleic acid replication complex attached to the cells' polar membrane-bleb-infrableb structures.
Validation of a dual-isotope plasma ratio method for measurement of cholesterol absorption in rats.	Several methods for measuring cholesterol absorption in the rat have been compared. After administration of an oral dose of labeled cholesterol ((14)C or (3)H) and an intravenous dose of colloidal labeled cholesterol ((3)H or (14)C) the ratio of the two labels in plasma or whole blood 48 hr or more after dosing compared closely to the ratio of areas under the respective specific activity-time curves. The area ratio method is independent of a time lag between the appearance of oral and intravenous label in the bloodstream. Both measures of cholesterol absorption agree fairly well with a method based on measuring the unabsorbed dietary cholesterol in a pooled fecal sample. The plasma isotope ratio method gave more reproducible results than the fecal collection method when the measurement was repeated in the same animals 5 days after the first measurement. Cholesterol absorption was overestimated by the use of Tween 20-solubilized labeled cholesterol for the intravenous dose. The plasma disappearance curves of injected labeled colloidal cholesterol and cholesterol-labeled chylomicrons infused intravenously over a 3.5-hr period in the same animal coincided within experimental error from the first day until 75 days after injection. The plasma isotope ratio method for cholesterol absorption gave the same results in rats practicing coprophagy as in those in which this practice was prevented. The addition of sulfaguanidine to the diet lowered cholesterol absorption as measured by the plasma isotope ratio to the same degree as that measured by the fecal collection method.
Early synthesis of membrane protein after bacteriophage T4 infection.	Proteins that associate with cellular membrane during the first 5 min after infection with bacteriophage T4 were examined. Several procedures, including electrophoretic separations in three sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel systems and inhibition of host protein synthesis by UV irradiation, were employed to distinguish host-specified proteins from those induced by T4. Residual host protein synthesis was found to account for much of the new protein in preparations of the total membrane and for almost all of the newly synthesized protein in the outer membrane. Preliminary evidence indicates that the synthesis of some host membrane proteins is shut off less rapidly than is host synthesis of soluble protein. One host-directed polypeptide of the outer membrane was unique in that its synthesis or incorporation into the membrane was preferentially inhibited by infection. Also, it was found that the detergent Sarkosyl solubilizes all early T4 membrane proteins; this observation provides the basis for a simple procedure for distinguishing phage proteins from host outer membrane proteins.
Effects of oil-treated mycobacterial cell walls on the organs of mice.	Intravenous vaccination of mice with oil-treated mycobacterial cell walls resulted in a marked macrophage accumulation in the lungs and spleens of vaccinated animals. Injection of oil emulsion alone or of cell walls alone failed to elicit the macrophage response. Although a correlation existed between the magnitude of the macrophage response and the degree of immunity against aerosol challenge with H(37)Rv organisms, the findings presented here do not rule out the possibility that qualitative differences may be present in the macrophages of animals vaccinated against tuberculosis. The ability of oil-treated cell walls to elicit an immune response appeared to be a function of the physical association of cell wall fragments and the surface of oil droplets.
Soluble antigens obtained from influenza virus by treatment with non-ionic detergent.	Highly purified influenza virus was degraded using anionic and non-ionic detergents. Best results were obtained using the non-ionic detergent Triton N 101. Tests showed that virus extracts contained neuraminidase and a substance that reacted specifically with rabbit antibody to virus haemagglutinin (specific serum blocking substance). Haemagglutination-inhibiting antibody was produced when virus extracts were inoculated into guinea-pigs. Immunodiffusion tests showed that extracts were complex. Host-specific material was regularly found. Under appropriate conditions S-antigen was detected as a single line pattern component. Two or more virus-specific materials were also present. One of these was probably neuraminidase and the other the specific serum blocking substance.
Deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase activity associated with a plasma particulate fraction from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Plasma from two cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia have been examined for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase activity. In both cases, detectable enzyme activity was present. In the plasma from a patient known to have chronic lymphocytic leukemia for 10 years, the enzyme activity was sufficiently high to study product formation, buoyant density of the enzyme activity, deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate requirements, and kinetics of DNA synthesis. These studies are presented in this report.
The intracellular localization of glycollate oxidoreductase in Euglena gracilis.	1. Lowering of the concentration of carbon dioxide in air available to phototrophically growing Euglena cultures from 5% to the normal value (0.03%) resulted in an increased specific activity of glycollate oxidoreductase. 2. The effects of chloramphenicol and cycloheximide suggested that this increase in activity was due to enzyme synthesis de novo on cytoplasmic ribosomes. 3. The K(m) for glycollate oxidation by the enzyme in crude cell extracts was 3.0x10(-3)m. 4. Differential centrifugation established that glycollate oxidoreductase present in phototrophically grown Euglena is a particulate enzyme. The enzyme was partially solubilized by the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100. 5. Sucrose-density-gradient centrifugation achieved the separation of the particulate glycollate oxidoreductase from chloroplasts and mitochondria. 6. Glutamate-glyoxylate aminotransferase was associated with particulate glycollate oxidoreductase.
The effect of Trypan Blue, suramin and aurothiomalate on the breakdown of  125 I-labelled albumin within rat liver lysosomes.	1. A fraction enriched in lysosomes was prepared by centrifugation from the livers of rats that had been injected 0.5h before death with (125)I-labelled albumin. When suspended in sucrose-protected buffer, pH7.4, and incubated at 22 degrees C for 2h, the particles progressively released iodotyrosine into the medium. Albumin digestion did not occur if the particles were subjected to treatments known to break lysosomes or if particles from uninjected rats were incubated in medium containing (125)I-labelled albumin. It is concluded that the observed production of iodotyrosine results from protein hydrolysis within intact heterolysosomes. 2. Particles from rats pre-treated with Trypan Blue, suramin or aurothiomalate released iodotyrosine more slowly than controls. Since these compounds are enzyme inhibitors that concentrate in liver lysosomes after administration in vivo, their effect is ascribed to intralysosomal inhibition of proteolysis. The doses used did not decrease endocytosis of albumin into liver or cause increased lysosome breakage during incubation, thus allowing some alternative explanations of the decreased proteolysis to be eliminated. Particulate carbon, a non-inhibitor that also concentrates in lysosomes, did not affect albumin hydrolysis.
The purification and properties of microsomal palmitoyl-coenzyme A synthetase.	The isolation and purification of palmitoyl-CoA synthetase from rat liver microsomes is described. Several methods suitable for enzyme assay are described. The general properties and kinetic parameters of the purified enzyme were determined and are discussed in relationship to microsomal fatty acid activation.
Studies on the structure-bound sedimentabolity of some rat liver lysosome hydrolases.	1. Lysosome-rich fractions from rat liver were subjected to several disruptive procedures: osmotic lysis or freezing and thawing in different media, shearing forces in a high-speed blender, treatment with Triton X-100. 2. The soluble and particulate phases were then separated by high-speed centrifugation and assayed for their content of acid phosphatase, beta-galactosidase, beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, acid proteinase, acid ribonuclease, acid deoxyribonuclease and protein. 3. The degree of elution of these hydrolases appeared to depend on both the enzyme species and the treatment. The resulting patterns of solubilization were rather complex, so that a clear-cut discrimination between soluble and structure-bound enzymes could not always be traced. 4. Although only beta-galactosidase was readily solubilizable after all treatments, acid proteinase could also be extensively eluted from the sedimentable material in the presence of EDTA and acid phosphatase was fully extracted by Triton X-100. On the other hand, considerable proportions of the other activities could not be solubilized by any of the procedures used. 5. In other experiments, the adsorbability of hydrolases on subcellular structures was investigated by measuring the partition between sedimentable particles and soluble fraction of solubilized enzymes added to ;intact' liver homogenates. 6. Large proportions of acid proteinase, ribonuclease and deoxyribonuclease, and almost all of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, were found to be adsorbed on the particulate material.
Consequences of the inhibition of cardiolipin metabolism in Haemophilus parainfluenzae.	Examination of phospholipid metabolism in Haemophilus parainfluenzae with inhibitors of various cellular functions indicated that macromolecular synthesis and lipid metabolism can be dissociated at least for a short time. Two classes of inhibitors have relatively specific effects on cardiolipin (CL) metabolism. Pentachlorophenol and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate blocked CL synthesis but allowed CL hydrolysis to phosphatidic acid and phosphatidyl glycerol (PG); 3,3',4,5'-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCS) and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (m-CCCP) blocked CL hydrolysis with the stoichiometric accumulation of CL. It appeared as if TCS and m-CCCP inhibited a vital activity coupled with the hydrolysis of CL by the highly active, CL-specific phospholipase D found in this organism. Because TCS and m-CCCP are thought to act by destroying the proton gradient thereby interrupting energy-dependent transport, it is possible that a highly active portion of the cellular CL could be coupled to some phase of this process.
The interaction of insulin with phospholipids.	1. A simple two-phase chloroform-aqueous buffer system was used to investigate the interaction of insulin with phospholipids and other amphipathic substances. 2. The distribution of (125)I-labelled insulin in this system was determined after incubation at 37 degrees C. Phosphatidic acid, dicetylphosphoric acid and, to a lesser extent, phosphatidylcholine and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide solubilized (125)I-labelled insulin in the chloroform phase, indicating the formation of chloroform-soluble insulin-phospholipid or insulin-amphipath complexes. Phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingomyelin, cholesterol, stearylamine and Triton X-100 were without effect. 3. Formation of insulin-phospholipid complex was confirmed by paper chromatography. 4. The two-phase system was adapted to act as a simple functional system with which to investigate possible effects of insulin on the structural and functional properties of phospholipid micelles in chloroform, by using the distribution of [(14)C]glucose between the two phases as a monitor of phospholipid-insulin interactions. The ability of phospholipids to solubilize [(14)C]glucose in chloroform increased in the order phosphatidylcholine<sphingomyelin<phosphatidylethanolamine<phosphatidic acid. Insulin decreased the [(14)C]glucose solubilized by phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidic acid, but not by sphingomyelin. 5. The significance of these results and the molecular requirements for the formation of insulin-phospholipid complexes in chloroform are discussed.
Equilibrium penetration of monolayers IV: dipalmitoyllecithin-centrimonium bromide system.	Equilibrium surface pressure-area isotherms of dipalmitoyllecithin monolayers were measured on substrates containing various concentrations of the surfactant, cetrimonium (hexadecyltrimethylammonium) bromide. From these isotherms, the saturation adsorptions of surfactant for various surface lecithin concentrations were calculated. Plotting of these adsorptions against the inverse of the area per lecithin molecule, as required for the "accessible area" theory, revealed two linear segments, corresponding to penetrating at high and at low monolayer areas. At both high and low areas, the adsorption into the accessible areas of the surface was similar to adsorption at a monolayer-free surface. The effective cross-sectional area of the monolayer molecule in the low area region was equal to the collapse area; in the high area region, it was equal to an area corresponding to the co-area, as calculated from the Amagat equation. The change in cross-sectional area corresponded to the transition in the monolayer from a liquid condensed state to a liquid expanded state.
Enzymatic production of L-alanine by Pseudomonas dacunhae.	To establish an advantageous method for the production of l-alanine, a procedure was studied for converting l-aspartic acid to l-alanine by microbial l-aspartic beta-decarboxylase. A number of organisms were screened to test their ability to form and accumulate alanine from aspartic acid. Pseudomonas dacunhae was selected as the most advantageous organism. With this organism, enzyme activity as high as 3,910 muliters of CO(2) per hr per ml of medium could be produced by shaking the culture at 30 C in the medium containing ammonium fumarate, sodium fumarate, corn steep liquor, peptone, and inorganic salts. For the enzymatic conversion of l-aspartic acid to l-alanine, the culture broth was employed as the enzyme source. A large amount of l-aspartic acid (as much as 40% of the broth) was converted stoichiometrically to alanine in 72 hr at 37 C. Furthermore, appropriate addition of a surface-active agent to the reaction mixture was found to be highly effective in shortening the time required for the conversion. Accumulated l-alanine was readily isolated in pure form by ordinary procedures with ion-exchange resins. Yields of isolated l-alanine of over 90% from l-aspartic acid were easily attainable.
Bacterial growth as a practical indicator of extensive biodegradability of organic compounds.	The proportionality of growth, as indicated by turbidity of cultures of Pseudomonas C12B, to the initial concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate, dodecanol, or a mixture of C(10)-C(20) secondary alcohol sulfates, each provided as sole carbon source in basal mineral salts medium, was demonstrated. Subsequently, the direct correlation of culture turbidity as a growth indicator and degradation of sodium dodecyl sulfate and the C(10)-C(20) compounds was established. Degradation of these detergents was measured by the rise in surface tension and the decrease in methylene blue values, respectively. Turbidimetry was found to be a poor indicator of degradation of dodecanol in the early hours of culture, however, and did not correlate over a significant range with degradation of substrate. Viable cell counts did parallel dodecanol degradation as measured by gas-liquid chromatography. The use of bacterial growth as a reliable, quantitative, and easily measured parameter indicating biodegradability was suggested for those organic compounds which can be shown to serve as a carbon source for a bacterium.
Macromolecule synthesis in yeast spheroplasts.	Conditions have been established for the preparation of spheroplasts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which are able to increase their net content of protein, ribonucleic acid (RNA), and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), several-fold upon incubation in a medium stabilized with 1 m sorbitol. The rate of RNA and protein synthesis in the spheroplasts is nearly the same as that occurring in whole cells incubated under the same conditions; DNA synthesis occurs at about half the whole cell rate. The spheroplasts synthesize transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA. The newly synthesized ribosomal RNA is incorporated into ribosomes and polysomes. The polysomes are the site of protein synthesis in these spheroplasts. Greater than 90% of the total RNA can be solubilized by treatment of the spheroplasts with sodium dodecyl sulfate or sodium deoxycholate. These spheroplast preparations appear to be a useful subject for the study of RNA metabolism in yeast.
The kinetics of solubilization of single component non-polar oils by a non-ionic surfactant.	The kinetics of solubilization of two non-polar oils (hexadecane and 2,6,10,15,19,23 hexamethyl tetracosane) by a pure non-ionic surfactant (n-dodecyl hexaethylene glycol ether) have been investigated using a recently developed technique. A linear dependence of rate upon surfactant concentration above the cmc and a rapid increase in rate at temperatures close to the cloud point were observed. A previously developed theoretical description of the process has been expanded to account for the observation that the rates for the oils in given systems are not in the exact ratio of the equilibrium capacities of the system for the respective oils. If the effects of changes in aggregation number and shape of the micelle/solubilizate complex are considered, the absolute values of the measured and theoretical rates are in good agreement. Furthermore, the activation energies are nearly equal for the two solubilizates, a result which is in accord with theory. The micelle relaxation time tau 2 is practically independent of surfactant concentration.
Isolation of coronavirus envelope glycoproteins and interaction with the viral nucleocapsid.	The two envelope glycoproteins and the viral nucleocapsid of the coronavirus A59 were isolated by solubilization of the viral membrane with Nonidet P-40 at 4 degrees C followed by sucrose density gradient sedimentation. Isolated E2 consisted of rosettes of peplomers, whereas E1, the membrane glycoprotein, was irregular and amorphous. Under certain conditions significant interactions occurred between components of Nonidet P-40-disrupted virions. Incubation of the Nonidet P-40-disrupted virus at 37 degrees C resulted in formation of a complex between one of the viral glycoproteins, E1, and the viral nucleocapsid. This was caused by a temperature-dependent conformational change in E1, resulting in aggregation of E1 and interaction with the viral RNA in the nucleocapsid. E1 also bound rRNA. The E1-nucleocapsid complexes can be distinguished on sucrose and Renografin density gradients from native viral nucleocapsids. The separation of the membrane glycoprotein E1 from the peplomeric glycoprotein E2 permitted preparation of antisera against these isolated proteins. A model is proposed for the arrangement of the three major structural proteins in the coronavirus A59 virion in relation to the viral envelope and RNA.
the stability in various detergents of transferrin-transferrin receptor complexes from reticulocyte plasma membranes.	Transferrin-membrane protein complexes were solubilized either with 0.4% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), 1% Triton X-100 or 0.5% sulfobetaine 3-14 from the plasma membranes of rabbit reticulocytes previously labeled with 125I and then incubated with 131-labeled transferrin. When the solubilized membranes were analyzed by gel filtration fractionation, marked variation in the preservation of transferrin-transferrin receptor interaction was noted between the three detergents. After SDS solubilization, more than 80% of the 131I-labeled transferrin remained associated with membrane proteins with apparent molecular weight of the transferrin-receptor complexes of 1400 000 and 240 000. In contrast, after Triton X-100 solubilization only 40% of the transferrin was still complexed to membrane proteins with an apparent molecular weight of the complex of 450 000. Dissociation of transferrin from its receptor was most marked following sulfobetaine solubilization, with less than 30% of the transferrin still complexed. Following gel filtration 131I-labeled transferrin-125I-labeled membrane protein complexes were immunoprecipitated with goat specific anti-rabbit transferrin antibodies. The immunoprecipitates were analyzed under stringent dissociating conditions by two SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic techniques. In a linear 5-25% polyacrylamide gradient the 125I-labeled receptor obtained after membrane solubilization with all three detergents had an apparent molecular weight of 80 000. In contrast, in a different system using 10% polyacrylamide gel two 125I-labeled receptor components were detected wih apparent molecular weights of 90 000 and 80 000. These results demonstrate that estimates of the molecular weight of the transferrin receptor depended on the conditions of electrophoresis and suggest that the transferrin receptor is partially modified, perhaps by glycosylation.
Otitis media with effusion: a steroid and antibiotic therapeutic trial before surgery.	Eustachian tube dysfunction has been considered the main factor in the etiology of otitis media with effusion (OME). A short-term systemic steroid therapy, with combined chemotherapeutics, yielded 53.1% cure in 160 children in which OME had been diagnosed, whereas only 12.5% of similar 116 children were cured by chemotherapeutic treatment alone. It is postulated that steroids, acting by a mechanism much similar to the one in the newborn lung, increase the level of a tubal surface active agent, thus enhancing Eustachian tube refunctioning. This combined treatment, we believe, deserves its place as a routine conservative trial before surgery.
Soft lens cleaners: their effectiveness in removing depostis.	The useful life of a hydrophilic lens is often reduced by deposits forming on or within the polymeric structure of the lens. To eliminate this problem, several cleaning agents have been formulated to prevent and/or remove these deposits. The efficacy of these agents in cleaning heavily deposited lenses is the topic of this investigation.
Ionic milieu and volume adjustments in detergent-extracted thymic nuclei.	Detergent-extracted isolated thymic lymphocyte nuclei were incubated in buffers containing 3 mM Ca++ and Mg++ and varying concentrations of Na+ and K+. Nuclei in 15 mM K+, 15 mM Na+ had a smaller size, smaller interchromatin spaces, and less packed chromatin than nuclei in the absence of these ions, but their water content relative to dry mass was not significantly different. NMR relaxation properties of water protons in these different nuclei were different, and nuclei in 15 mM K+, 15 mM Na+ contained twice as much K and Na as in the buffer solution. These findings indicate that the hydration of chromatin bodies and the size of the interchromatin spaces are sensitive to the free monovalent ion concentrations. When isolated nuclei were exposed to solutions containing 150 mM total concentration of K + Na, the nucleoplasm became disrupted and the hydration index was greater. The results are discussed in regard to possible mechanisms of nuclear volume control in cells.
The use of a zwitterionic detergent in two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of trout liver microsomes.	CHAPS, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-Propane sulfonate, a zwitterionic detergent, has been shown to exhibit superior membrane protein solubilizing characteristics as compared to nonionic detergents. Replacement of NP-40 with CHAPS in isoelectric focusing of rainbow trout liver microsomes has increased resolution markedly. The two-dimensional electrophoretic system described will allow effective resolution of up to 300 micrograms of crude microsomal protein. CHAPS exhibits no effect on the stability or type of pH gradient when compared to NP-40 during isoelectric focusing in the presence of urea.
Effect of inorganic additives on solutions of nonionic surfactants V: Emulsion stability.	Electrolytes often break emulsions to which they were added as active ingredients, adjuvants, or impurities. The stability of oil-in-water emulsions containing octoxynol 9 NF as the emulsifier and various added electrolytes was investigated by measuring droplet size, turbidity, and oil separation on storage at various temperatures and in a centrifugal field at 25 degrees. Electrolytes were added to hexadecane emulsions after emulsification (direct addition); alternatively, hexadecane was emulsified in octoxynol 9-electrolyte mixtures (reverse addition). Xylene emulsions were prepared by direct addition only. Hexadecane emulsions containing 0.10% octoxynol 9 were considerably more stable than xylene emulsions containing 0.60% because the surfactant is practically insoluble in hexadecane, but miscible in all proportions with xylene. An emulsifier soluble in the disperse phase as well as the continuous phase evidently forms less stable interfacial films. The electrolytes investigated were sulfuric and hydrochloric acids, magnesium nitrate, and aluminum nitrate, which salt octoxynol 9 in by complexation between its ether groups and their cations; sodium thiocyanate, which salts the surfactant in by destructuring water; and sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, which salt octoxynol 9 out. The addition of these electrolytes at concentrations up to 2 or 3 m to hexadecane emulsions produced fast and extensive creaming, little or no flocculation, no coalescence, and only minor changes in droplet size or turbidity on storage at room temperature. The extent of coalescence during centrifugation was actually reduced by the additives. Such stability is unusual. Droplet size and turbidity depended mainly on octoxynol 9 concentration. The greatest decrease in the former and increase in the latter occurred when the concentration was increased from 0.10 to approximately 0.4%. All emulsions became slightly coarser on storage at 25 degrees. Stability at 50 degrees was impaired by aluminum nitrate and magnesium nitrate and to a lesser extent by sodium sulfate and sodium chloride. Reverse-addition emulsions differentiated better between the electrolytes than direct-addition emulsions. Electrolytes salting octoxynol 9 in, especially by complexation, generally produced the finest and most stable emulsions. Similarly, xylene emulsions were destabilized more by the electrolytes which salted the emulsifier out than by those salting it in. Centrifugation of hexadecane emulsions at 7800 X g compressed the creamed emulsion layer into a plug of clear, transparent, isotropic gel from which coalesced hexadecane separated slowly on further centrifugation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Reduced hydrolytic lability of epoprostenol in the presence of cationic micelles.	The rapid hydrolysis of epoprostenol to 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha is hydronium ion-catalyzed even at pH 10 or higher. In the presence of 1.0% hexadecyltrimethylammonium chloride, the rate was reduced significantly (1580-fold at pH 2 and 283-fold at a physiological pH). This decrease in the hydrolysis rate is attributed to two causes: favorable partitioning of epoprostenol in the micellar phase and electrostatic repulsion between the hydronium ion and the cationic micellar surface.
Separation of urinary estrogens by micellar electrokinetic chromatography.	Urinary estrogen levels are important for monitoring the normal pregnancy process as well as for the diagnosis of reproductive diseases. 17 beta-Estradiol and estrone are maintained at very low concentrations in urine and, therefore, are difficult to determine using standard chromatography with UV detection. In the present study, we describe a potential method for the determination of urinary estrogens (estrone, estradiol and estriol) using a solid-phase extraction and rapid capillary electrophoretic (CE) separations. Micellar electrokinetic chromatographic (MEKC) analysis was optimized by evaluating the number of surfactants in a 5 mM borate-5 mM phosphate separation buffer, of which sodium cholate (75-90 mM) was found to be optimal. Changing the hydrophobic character of the separation buffer with organic additives had a significant effect on the resolution of the three estrogens and an internal standard (d-equilenin). The addition of an organic additive (20% acetonitrile) was found to be necessary for the resolution of all components of the mixture. Substitution with 20% methanol provided a similar separation with better resolution but at the cost of increased analysis time. Analysis of two extracted urine samples from 18-weeks and 21-weeks pregnant women showed that, with the present technology, CE can provide adequate resolution and superior speed, but the sensitivity limits attainable with the existing technology may limit its utility to the measurement of estriol and estrone.
Sample matrix effects in micellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis.	Several factors related to sample matrix which can influence peak height in micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography were studied. The ionic strength of the sample did not affect greatly the peak height. High concentration of surfactants or organic solvents in the sample decreased the peak height. On the other hand, using a surfactant in the sample different from the one in the electrophoresis buffer or the addition of polyethylene glycol to the sample enhanced slightly the peak height. A high surfactant concentration in the buffer increased the migration time as well as the plate number and the peak height. Matrix effects are more profound with large than with small sample injections. In general, the effect of sample matrix in MECC is much less than that observed in capillary zone electrophoresis. It is recommended to prepare the standards in the same matrix as that of the sample or to add the analytes directly to the sample to avoid any bias in the results.
Interaction of the antimalarial alpha-dibutylaminomethyl-2,6-bis(trifluoromethylphenyl)-4-pyridinemethanol with human serum albumin.	Binding of the antimalarial alpha-dibutylaminomethyl-2,6-bis(trifluoromethylphenyl)-4-pyridinemethanol with human serum albumin was studied using difference spectroscopy, fluorescence quenching, and equilibrium dialysis. Results indicated that the number of high affinity binding sites of the drug on protein is 0.45, with the total number of binding sites being 3.3--4.0. The binding constants were in the range of 0.57--4.00 x 10(6) M-1. The drug was bound more strongly to a nonionic detergent than to either a cationic or anionic detergent. Interpretation of these data and fluorescence quenching results indicated that the drug is possibly bound to a hydrophobic site on human serum albumin.
Improvement of the rectal bioavailability of latamoxef sodium by adjuvants following administration of a suppository.	The absorption of an antibiotic, latamoxef sodium (LMOX), following the rectal administration of a suppository containing adjuvants was investigated. A lipophilic base (Witepsol H15) was used. The rectal absorption of LMOX following the administration of a suppository without adjuvants was very low. Diclofenac sodium (DF) was used as an absorption promoter; it enhances rectal membrane permeability. The blood level of LMOX following the addition of DF(10 mg) to the base was increased only about 1.3-fold compared with that achieved with LMOX alone (difference not significant); even with a higher dose of DF, the absorption of LMOX was not sufficient. The release rate of LMOX from the base was slow. When Tween 80, a non-ionic surfactant, was added to improve the release rate of LMOX, the rate was sufficiently increased. The rectal absorption of LMOX on the addition of both Tween 80 and DF was markedly increased compared to that achieved with LMOX alone or with DF. These results indicate that the rectal absorption of LMOX after administration by a suppository was sufficiently improved by enhancing both the release rate from the base and the membrane permeability of the rectum. Lymphatic uptake and blood levels of LMOX were also investigated after the rectal administration of the LMOX preparation containing both Tween 80 and DF; the lymphatic uptake of LMOX was significantly enhanced compared with the LMOX preparation in which only DF was used as an adjuvant. The mechanism whereby adjuvants lead to the absorption of a non-absorbable drug, and the subsequent drug transportation routes through the membrane are discussed.
Micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography with in situ charged micelles: 3. Evaluation of alkylglucoside surfactants as anionic butylboronate complexes.	This article represents an extension to a new approach introduced very recently by our laboratory for the control of the surface charge density as well as the hydrophobic character of micellar phases used in micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography (MECC). The approach is based on the complexation of polyolic surfactants, e.g., alkylglucosides, with butylboronate to form in situ branched, anionic surfactants. The butylboronate can also incorporate into the micelle via its alkyl tail and acts as a "class I" organic additive that mainly modifies the micelle by decreasing the critical micellar concentration, i.e., increasing the hydrophobic character of the micelle, while exhibiting little influence on the aqueous phase. The net result is an in situ charged micellar entity whose hydrophobic character is dynamically altered. The alkylglucoside-butylboronate micellar phases yielded high separation efficiencies and proved useful in the separation of charged and neutral herbicides as well as the chiral separations of medicarpins and precursors, and dansylated D and L-amino acids in the presence of native or modified cyclodextrin chiral selectors.
Mixed micellar electrokinetic chromatography of corticosteroids.	Mixed micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MMEKC) using mixtures of bile salt surfactants and/or sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) was employed to separate a group of corticosteroids. Resolution of electrokinetic chromatography (EKC) can be greatly enhanced by the use of mixed micellar systems due to the fact that the composition of the mixed micelles has a great influence on retention, selectivity and the size of the elution window. By combining surfactants with different structural properties, solute-micelle interactions were manipulated in order to elicit specific separations. Various combinations of bile salts and/or SDS at different mole fractions as well as total micelle concentrations were used in order to enhance the resolution of corticosteroid separations. Large changes in retention and selectivity were observed that often resulted in frequent variations in elution order. In addition, the composition of mixed micellar systems had a great influence on the elution window in EKC, as measured by the ratio of tmc/teo. Addition of SDS to the mixtures of bile salt micelles resulted in significant extension of the elution window and subsequently improvement in resolution. A separation of seventeen corticosteroids was achieved. Finally, MMEKC was applied in order to separate the steroidal components of a mixture of three anti-inflammatory creams.
The use of mixed surfactants in micellar electrokinetic chromatography.	The use of mixed surfactants for the separation of nine phenylthiohydantoin amino acids (PTH amino acids) by micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) was examined. The potential of a mixed surfactant system, consisting of cationic and anionic surfactants, for enhancing the selectivity of MEKC separations was explored. Both sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and cetyltrime-thylammonium bromide (CTAB) in the electrophoretic medium were found to improve the separation of the PTH-amino acids compared to the use of CTAB or SDS alone. Complete separation of the PTH amino acids was achieved using a buffer containing 2.5 mM CTAB and 40 mM SDS. The analysis was performed without the need to reverse the polarity of the electrodes, typically required if oppositely charged micelles are used. The migration behavior of the nine PTH amino acids using the mixed surfactant system was compared with MEKC in presence of SDS alone.
The distribution of free and non-ionic vesicular sodium stibogluconate in the dog.	The pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of antimony after the administration of sodium stibogluconate in a free form or entrapped in vesicles prepared from non-ionic surfactant were studied in the dog. Animals were given either one or two intravenous bolus injection(s) equivalent to 45 mg Sb kg-1 as free drug or 0.625 or 0.685 mg Sb kg-1 as vesicular drug. Blood samples were taken at various times after dosing and antimony levels in various tissues were determined at 3 h, 48 h and 6 days after dosing. After free stibogluconate antimony clearance from the blood occurred in a rapid elimination phase with a blood half-life of 0.58 +/- 0.08 h. This rapid elimination phase did not occur after vesicular drug. Both drug preparations gave similar antimony levels in the spleen, liver and femur and humerus bone marrow at all time points assessed even though the vesicular dose was one-seventieth of the free drug dose. After the free drug there was marked urinary excretion of antimony and, as a result, increased kidney loading at the expense of other tissue. Vesicle-mediated drug delivery suppressed renal excretion and a much greater proportion of the antimony dose was recovered from tissue than was obtained after free drug. A hypothesis is presented to account for the differences in tissue antimony concentrations produced by the two formulations.
Effect of macrophage activation on plasma disposition of niosomal 3H-methotrexate in sarcoma-180 bearing mice.	Methotrexate niosomes were formed by reverse phase evaporation technique using sorbitan monostearate (Span 60) surfactant. The pharmacokinetic parameters of methotrexate (MTX) after macrophage activation via muramyl dipeptide gelatin conjugate were studied and the results compared with those obtained after free MTX and MTX niosomes without macrophage activation. In mice MTX concentrations and tumour regression were higher after macrophage activation.
Air-bubble entrapment as affected by investment technique, pattern angle, and use of a surface tension-reduction agent.	The effect of five dental investing techniques, three angles formed between adjoining internal pattern surfaces, and the use of a surface tension-reducing agent on air-bubble entrapment during investing were assessed. One investing technique, which mechanically mixed the investment under vacuum, invested the pattern without vacuum, then subjected the setting investment to .275 mPa of air pressure, was found to produce significantly fewer air bubbles than the other four techniques (P = 0.0096, Student's t test). The volume of the air bubbles was not found to be significantly affected by the different investing techniques, but the angle between adjoining internal pattern surfaces indicated that the more acute the angle, the larger the volume of the trapped air bubbles. When a surface tension reducer was used on the surface of patterns, pattern angles of 90 degrees had fewer trapped air bubbles than those produced with more acute tooth preparation angles, but the surface tension reducer agent had no significant effect on bubble volume. The use of a surface tension-reducing agent on the pattern surface prior to investing significantly reduced air bubble numbers (P = .054).
Concentration threshold of non-occluded nickel exposure in nickel-sensitive individuals and controls with and without surfactant.	Most cases of primary nickel sensitization are caused by occluded exposure to nickel released from earrings, buttons, etc. Nickel-sensitive females are both domestically and occupationally exposed to trace amounts of nickel. The present study was designed to define the minimum eliciting threshold concentration of nickel exposure in previously nickel-sensitized individuals, after open application on normal forearm skin with and without surfactant. A dilution series of NiCl2, ranging from 0.1 to 4000 ppm nickel with and without 4% sodium lauryl sulfate, was applied to healthy volar forearm skin. None reacted with definite allergic reactions to 100 ppm and below. Follicular reactions were seen in the concentration range from 0.1-100 ppm in a few patients and 1 healthy control. The results are discussed in relation to consumer products containing 1-10 ppm nickel.
Modification of liposomes by addition of HCO60. I. Targeting of liposomes to liver by addition of HCO60 to liposomes.	The influence of HCO60 on the blood clearance and tissue distribution of soybean phosphatidylcholine (PC) liposomes, encapsulating alpha-tocopherol as a marker, was studied in rats. The liposomes were prepared by the hydration method from a lipid film containing different amounts of HCO60, and by extrusion through a 0.1 micron polycarbonate membrane filter. The blood clearance and liver uptake of alpha-tocopherol after i.v. administration increased with increasing the amount of HCO60 the liposome contained. With 80 wt% HCO60 liposomes, the accumulation of alpha-tocopherol in the liver was approximately three-fold that of the 100% PC liposomes. The uptake by lungs, spleen and kidneys did not change with the addition of HCO60. The findings obtained in a gel-filtration study suggested that alpha-tocopherol is not removed from the liposomes, with or without HCO60, by rat plasma proteins and the HCO60 micelle may form a complex with rat plasma proteins. Our findings suggest that liposomes containing large amounts of HCO60 (more than 60 wt%) will be useful for delivering drug to the liver.
Modification of liposomes by addition of HCO60. II. Encapsulation of doxorubicin into liposomes containing HCO60.	The efficiency of encapsulation of doxorubicin (DOX) into liposomes containing HCO60 was studied. Empty egg phosphatidylcholine (PC) liposomes containing various amounts of HCO60 were passed through a polycarbonate membrane filter (0.1 micron). Closed vesicles were formed even with liposomes containing 90 wt% HCO60. DOX was encapsulated efficiently (more than 1 mg DOX/8 mg lipids) using a pH-gradient method. HCO60 accelerated the leakage of DOX from liposomes into phosphate buffer at temperatures above 25 degrees C. HCO60 suppressed the leakage of DOX from egg PC/cholesterol (7/3, w/w) liposomes into phosphate buffer containing 50% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Studies on the interaction between liposomes and serum components using zeta potential and turbidity suggest that HCO60 prevents the liposomes from interacting with serum components.
Stability and new formulations of hexetidine. 2. Formulations and in vitro bioavailability]	The solubilization of the water insoluble antimicrobial compound hexetidine is achieved by tensides and cyclodextrins. Using tensides the active ingredient is associated with the lipophilic part of the emulsifier. Tensides with a hydrophilic element in the lipophilic part of the molecule show better solubilizing properties. In contrast a higher stability is achieved with emulsifiers without hydrophilic elements in the lipophilic part of the molecule. The antimicrobial activity, determined by an in vitro test, is not influenced by the type of emulsifier. Cyclodextrins form inclusion complexes with hexetidine. Hydroxy propyl-beta-cyclodextrin is preferred due to its high water solubility. This inclusion complex shows compared with tenside solubilization a better taste and stability. The in vitro antimicrobial activity was comparable to tenside solubilized products.
Improved chiral separation of basic compounds in capillary electrophoresis using beta-cyclodextrin and tetraalkylammonium reagents.	Approaches to improve resolution in chiral separation of several basic pharmaceutical compounds by capillary electrophoresis (CE) via a cyclodextrin (CD) inclusion complexation are described. Tetraalkylammonium reagents, including long-chain cationic surfactants and short-chain alkylammonium hydroxides, are examined for controlling the electroosmotic flow in order to improve resolution of the cationic enantiomers. In this regard, short-chain tetraalkylammonium cations (such as tetrabutylammonium and tetramethylammonium are more effective. First, the short-chain tetraalkylammonium cations can be used at much higher concentrations than the long-chain cationic surfactants, which form micelles in the few millimolar concentration range. As a result, a better capillary wall coverage is provided with the short-chain reagents, which leads to reduction or reversal of the direction of the electroosmotic flow at the acidic pH 2.5. Second, the short-chain tetraalkylammonium cations are relatively less hydrophobic and less likely to occupy the hydrophobic cavity of beta-CD than the long-chain cationic surfactants, leaving the enantioselective interaction sites more available for the analytes. The presence of these tetraalkylammonium cations was essential in many chiral separations that were reportedly not achieved by using the buffer electrolytes containing only the beta-CD as a chiral selector. In addition, a mechanism of chiral recognition by beta-CD for a group of stereoisomers is discussed.
Molecular mimicry in channel-protein structure.	The approach to probing the sequence-structure relationship of ion-channel proteins using small peptides stems from the abundance of sequence information and the virtual absence of structures at atomic resolution. It is anticipated that model peptides may fold predictably into stable structures and reproduce functional properties of specific proteins. Model peptides are well suited to the application of NMR methods to determine protein structure in a membrane environment or to high-resolution X-ray diffraction analysis. It is timely to ask what we have learned through this strategy and where it may lead in our quest to understand the sequence-structure determinism.
Stabilization of gas cavitation nuclei by surface-active compounds.	Gas bubbles are the primary agent in producing the pathogenic effects of decompression sickness. Numerous experiments indicate that bubbles originate in water, and probably also in man, as pre-existing gas nuclei. This is surprising considering that gas phases larger than 1 micron should rise to the surface of a standing liquid, whereas smaller ones should dissolve rapidly due to surface tension. Several stabilizing mechanisms have been suggested, and each has been refuted on experimental grounds. In this article, we propose a new model that arises out of a systematic study of the earlier theories. We review these theories and conclude that gas cavitation nuclei must be held intact by surface-active skins that are initially permeable. The first quantitative analysis of bubble formation data from supersaturated gelatin is summarized and leads to the further conclusion that skins can become impermeable if the ambient pressure is increased rapidly by a sufficient amount. Our model owes much to Sirotyuk, who "demonstrated experimentally that stabilization of gas bubbles acting as cavitation nuclei in water is always attributable to the presence of surface-active substances in the water".
Novel prebiotic systems: nucleotide oligomerization in surfactant entrapped water pools.	Oligomerization of 5' -TMP in water pools entrapped by dodecyl-ammonium chloride surfactant aggregates in benzene: hexane in the presence of dicyanodiimide at temperatures ranging from 21 degree -72 degree resulted in the formation of linear and cyclic oligonucleotides containing up to pentamers. Effects of temperature, time and surfactants have been examined. Rate constants for the formation of oligomers have been determined at five different temperatures. These data afforded values of (formula: see text). Prebiotic significance of these results are discussed.
Surface active peptide-mediated porphyrin aggregation.	Surface active pentapeptide [2(HCOO-). Lys-Ala-Ala-Lys(Z)-Tyr-OCH3] has been synthesized and its micelle formation investigated using conductometric, pH metric, and UV spectroscopic techniques. The double head double tail peptide molecules are shown to interact with water soluble meso-tetrakis (4-sulfonatophenyl)-porphyrin [TPPS]H2 to form characteristic H-type aggregate at low concentrations, as evidenced by UV-Vis and fluorescence spectroscopic techniques. Spectroscopic analysis reveals that the aggregate contains 1:2 porphyrin-peptide combination. The equilibrium constant for the formation of peptide-porphyrin complex has been obtained by using absorption spectral data. The present studies provide new insight into the peptide-porphyrin interaction.
Reversible thermal unfolding of ribonuclease T1 in reverse micelles.	The reverse micellar system formed by the negatively charged surfactant AOT and the organic solvent isooctane is used to solubilize the protein RNase T1. The physicochemical properties of the entrapped protein have been studied using intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence and far-and near-UV CD. These studies indicate a similar structure for the protein in reverse micelles and in pH 7.0 buffer. Thermal unfolding has been studied as a function of W0, the molar ratio of water to AOT, in the solution. Measuring the change in fluorescence intensity as a function of temperature, we observe a reversible transition for W0 in the range 5-12. Heating rate dependencies carried out on these transitions (0.6-3.0 degrees C/min) indicate that the transition temperature and the apparent van't Hoff enthalpy change depend on the scanning rate as well as on W0. The values of the transition temperature, T(m) and the enthalpy change, delta H degrees(un), extrapolated to an infinitely slow scanning rate, are analyzed considering the electrostatic interaction of the charged residues of the protein with the charges of the surfactant molecules forming reverse micelles, the variation of the size of the reverse micelles, and the relative rates of unfolding, refolding, and irreversible denaturation.
Fungitoxic action of dithanes in presence of surfactant micelles.	A rationale of arriving at the concentration of surfactant additives in the pesticidal formulations has been discovered. Fungitoxic activity of each of the two dithanes, Dithane M-45 (maneb) and Dithane Z-78 (zineb) has been estimated in the presence of various concentrations of three surfactants namely sodium lauryl sulphate, cetyl pyridinium chloride and Tween 80. Data reveal that the concentration of the surfactant additives in the pesticidal formulations should be at least equal to its critical micelle concentration (CMC) for enhanced biological activity. This rationale for the concentration of surfactant additives in the pesticidal formulation has so far not been clearly brought out in the literature. Since biological activity of the pesticides is enhanced in the presence of surfactant additives the present study is relevant to the reduction of environmental pollution due to pesticide residues.
Analysis of biomaterials deposited on soft contact lenses.	Formation of opaque deposits on the anterior (air) surface of hydrophilic soft contact lenses is a problem worthy of investigation by all concerned. These deposits have been analyzed for biomaterials by chemical, biochemical, electrophoretic, and immunological techniques. Qualitative and quantitative chemical colorimetric tests revealed the presence of variable amounts of protein (5-10 microgram/lens), carbohydrate (1.0-1.2 microgram/lens), and phospholipids (0.01-0.05 micronmole/lens). Cholesterol and glucose were not present at detectable levels. Fluorescent antibody tests with appropriate controls gave positive tests for albumin, lysozyme, gamma-G-globulin, and alpha1-lipoprotein in the deposits, all proteins present in tear fluid. Deposits were most effectively  removed from the lenses by the combination of heat, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) detergent, and the thiol reagent dithiothreitol (DTT). SDS-denatured protein migrated on polyacrylamide gels with electrophoretic patterns corresponding to molecular weights for those proteins detected by the above antibody tests. The nature of the bonding interactions of biomaterials to the lenses was probed by chemical reagents used to remove them, employed singly and in all possible combinations. Urea, guanidine hydrochloride, potassium thiocyanate, potassium perchlorate, hydroxylamine, and EDTA were much less effective than SDS and DTT. These data suggest that apolar interactions plus disulfide bonds may be important in stabilizing the deposit structure, and point to improved cleaning procedures.
Benzoyl peroxide stability in pharmaceutical gel preparations.	The storage stability of benzoyl peroxide in the presence of both individual and combined pharmaceutical gel ingredients was investigated. Benzoyl peroxide was quite unstable in the presence of nucleophilic agents and certain acidic substances. At both 30 and 40 degrees storage temperatures, benzoyl peroxide was destroyed rapidly (within 1 month) in the presence of ethanol and acidic chelating agents. The substitution of acetone for ethanol, the elimination of chelating agents, and the addition of sodium hydroxide to gel preparations markedly reduced degradation.
Micellar electrokinetic chromatography perspectives in drug analysis.	Micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) has become a popular mode among several capillary electromigration techniques. Most drug analyses can be performed by using MEKC because of its wide applicability. Enantiomer separation, separation of closely related peptides and isotopic compounds, separation of very complex mixtures, determination of drugs in the biological samples, etc., can be successfully achieved by MEKC. This review surveys typical applications of MEKC analysis. Recent advances in MEKC, especially with pseudo-stationary phases, are described. Modes of electrokinetic chromatography including MEKC, a separation theory of MEKC and selectivity manipulation in MEKC are also briefly mentioned.
Quantifying the biodegradation of phenanthrene by Pseudomonas stutzeri P16 in the presence of a nonionic surfactant.	The low water solubility of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons is believed to limit their availability to microorganisms, which is a potential problem for bioremediation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-contaminated sites. Surfactants have been suggested to enhance the bioavailability of hydrophobic compounds, but both negative and positive effects of surfactants on biodegradation have been reported in the literature. Earlier, we presented mechanistic models of the effects of surfactants on phenanthrene dissolution and on the biodegradation kinetics of phenanthrene solubilized in surfactant micelles. In this study, we combined the biodegradation and dissolution models to quantify the influence of the surfactant Tergitol NP-10 on biodegradation of solid-phase phenanthrene by Pseudomonas stutzeri P16. Although micellized phenanthrene does not appear to be available directly to the bacterium, the ability of the surfactant to increase the phenanthrene dissolution rate resulted in an overall increase in bacterial growth rate in the presence of the surfactant. Experimental observations could be predicted well by the derived model with measured biokinetic and dissolution parameters. The proposed model therefore can serve as a base case for understanding the physical-chemical effects of surfactants on nonaqueous hydrocarbon bioavailability.
On-line capillary electrophoresis-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry using a polymerized anionic surfactant.	On-line capillary electrophoresis-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (CE-ESI-MS) has been used to determine the tricyclic antidepressant drugs (imipramine, doxepin, and amitriptyline) as well as the beta-adrenergic blocker drugs (propranolol and alprenolol). A CE-ESI-MS interface linking a manually operated CE system and a Finnigan MAT-900 sector mass spectrometer (with an Analytica electrospray ionization source) has been constructed in-house and employed for this study. Although a water/methanol based capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) buffer was initially used to determine these analytes, enhanced resolution was obtained by addition of a polymerized surfactant, i.e., poly-sodium undecylenic sulfate (poly-SUS), into the electrokinetic chromatography (EKC) buffer. When a low concentration of this poly-SUS surfactant was added to a volatile EKC buffer, these structurally similar cationic drugs were EKC separated and on-line detected by ESI-MS.
Protein kinase C isoform levels in normal and sodium dodecyl sulphate-irritated mouse skin.	Protein kinase C (PKC) comprises a family of related phospholipid-dependent serine/threonine protein kinases. PKC is important in signal transduction, regulating cell proliferation and differentiation. Recently, it has also been suggested that PKC may play a part in the pathogenesis of contact dermatitis. However, the expression of PKC isoforms in the skin of mice with irritant contact dermatitis (ICD) has not been examined. In this study, ICD was induced in mouse skin by applying 5%, 10% and 20% sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) in Finn chambers on the backs of mice and fixing with surgical dressings for 24 h. Depending upon the SDS concentration, mild to strong skin irritant reactions were observed 24 h after removal of the irritant patches. The intensity of the reactions increased with the increasing concentration of SDS. PKC isoforms alpha, beta, gamma and delta were all detected in normal mouse skin by Western immunoblotting. The specificity of the PKC isoforms detected was identified further by competitive Western immunoblotting. Compared with normal mouse skin treated with double-distilled water, the levels of PKC isoforms alpha, beta, gamma and delta in the SDS-irritated mouse skin was decreased by 24.8-75.8%. These results suggest that, in SDS-ICD, mouse skin PKC isoforms alpha, beta, gamma and delta are down-regulated. The significance of this decrease is under further investigation.
Combined methods of retrograde staining, layer-separation and viscoelastic cell stabilization to isolate retinal ganglion cells in adult rats.	The adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are widely used as a model to study mechanisms of de- and regeneration within the central nervous system (CNS). All regions of the CNS including the retina have the common disadvantage of being composed of heterogeneous populations of cells, many of them like RGCs making less than 1% of the total population. This disadvantage can be circumvented by methodologies aimed at purifying specific cell types. Here we describe a method that combines retrograde labelling with fluorescent dyes and the pull-off technique. By using either of four different fluorescent dyes to retrogradely label RGCs, between 55 and 80% of pre-labelled ganglion cells could be identified with fluorescence microscopy. The pull-off procedure was supplemented by enhancing the viscosity of the collecting medium with methylhydroxypropyl-cellulose (MHPC). It appeared that 45% of all RGCs could be collected in the medium containing MHPC as compared to about 19% of RGCs which could be collected in medium devoid of cellulose. Despite the fact that morphometric measurements indicated that 60% of the cells collected fulfilled the criteria of being RGCs, the population obtained was immensely enriched and sufficed to perform a two dimensional SDS-gel electrophoresis and to determine their protein composition. The collected RGCs displayed a similar protein pattern as compared to that of the total retina, indicating that sublayers of the retina were represented in the probe. The results suggest that combined approaches of in vivo staining and ex vivo separation within suitable media enables the collection of an enriched population of cells which can be processed for biochemical analysis, and perhaps for molecular biology.
Factors affecting protein transfer into surfactant-isooctane solution: a case study of extraction behavior of chemically modified cytochrome c.	The extraction mechanism of proteins by surfactant molecules in an organic solvent has been investigated using a chemically modified protein. We conducted guanidylation on lysine residues of cytochrome c by replacing their amino groups with homoarginine to enhance the protein-surfactant interaction. Results have shown that guanidylated cytochrome c readily forms a hydrophobic complex with dioleyl phosphoric acid (DOLPA) through hydrogen bonding between the phosphate moiety and the guanidinium groups. Although improved protein-surfactant interaction activated the formation of a hydrophobic complex at the interface, it could not improve the protein transfer in isooctane. It has been established that the protein extraction mechanism using surfactant molecules is mainly governed by two processes: formation of an interfacial complex at the oil-water interface and the subsequent solubilization of the complex into the organic phase. In addition, a kinetic study demonstrated that guanidylation of lysine accelerated the initial extraction rate of cytochrome c. This fact implies that the protein transferability from aqueous phase into organic phase depends on the protein-surfactant interaction which can be modified by protein surface engineering.
Sputum metalloproteinase-9/tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 ratio correlates with airflow obstruction in asthma and chronic bronchitis.	Asthma and chronic bronchitis are inflammatory diseases with extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and collagen deposition. Collagen homeostasis is controlled by metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). We evaluated MMP and TIMP balance in induced sputum of 10 control, 31 untreated asthmatic, and 16 chronic bronchitic subjects. We first performed zymographic analysis to identify the profile of MMPs. Zymography revealed a similar MMPs profile in all populations studied and that MMP-9 was the major enzyme released. We then measured, using enzyme immunoassay, the concentrations of MMP-9 and of its inhibitor TIMP-1 and evaluated whether airflow limitation may be associated with an imbalance between these enzymes. MMP-9 and TIMP-1 concentrations were greater in sputum of patients with asthma and chronic bronchitis than in control subjects. The molar ratio between MMP-9 and TIMP-1 was lower in asthmatics and chronic bronchitics than in control subjects, and positively correlated with FEV1 values. In asthma, MMP-9 levels were significantly correlated with the number of macrophages and neutrophils. This study shows that airway inflammation in asthma and chronic bronchitis is associated with an imbalance between MMP-9 and TIMP-1 which may have a role in the pathogenesis of ECM remodeling and airflow obstruction.
Investigation of micelles and anionic cyclodextrins as pseudostationary phases for the capillary electrophoresis separation of oligosaccharides derivatized with 2-amino-benzamide.	Oligomers of glucose and oligosaccharides released from glycoproteins were derivatized with 2-aminobenzamide. As this fluorophore imparts no charge to the oligosaccharides, several strategies were investigated to achieve capillary electrophoresis (CE) separation of both neutral and charged derivatized glycans. Micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography (MEKC) with the addition of anionic surfactants was evaluated as a first approach: sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) produced the best separation of the oligoglucose fragments, where the migration was inversely related to their degree of polymerization. To demonstrate the applicability of this method for complex carbohydrate analysis, oligosaccharide mixtures derived from ribonuclease B (RNase B) and alpha-acid glycoprotein (alpha-AGP) were analyzed. A satisfactory separation for the high-mannose structures found in RNase B could be obtained, whereas charged oligosaccharides from alpha-AGP were poorly resolved. Cyclodextrin-modified CE was chosen as the second approach: the effect of the addition of sulfobutylether-beta-cyclodextrin (SBE-beta-CD) or sulfobutylether-gamma-cyclodextrin (SBE-gamma-CD) on the electrophoretic mobilities and resolution of neutral and charged oligosaccharides was then studied. Selectivity of sialylated structures could be further improved by using anionic cyclodextrins (CDs) instead of micelles. However, this latter approach failed to baseline-resolve the different high-mannose structures of RNase B. A successful separation of the complex mixture of oligosaccharides from alphaalpha-AGP was obtained with the addition of 4% of SBE-gamma-CD and triethylamine (TEA) in a phosphate buffer, pH 6.7.
Analysis of tear proteins by one- and two-dimensional thin-layer iosoelectric focusing, sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis and lectin blotting. Detection of a new component: cystatin C.	Isoelectric focusing (IEF) of tear proteins has not yet been carried out in a satisfactory way. Two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis, especially in the combination of IEF with SDS, is able to differentiate between proteins in detail. The purpose of this study was therefore to analyze tear proteins by 1D IEF alone and in combination with a 2D pattern, and by IEF followed by lectin staining.
