The value of early discharge: dispelling some myths.	Our objective in this paper is to assess the value of early discharge schemes following the economic evaluation of three such schemes in New South Wales, Australia. An early discharge programme for obstetric patients, a fractured hip management programme and a continuing community cancer care programme were evaluated. The results of the economic evaluation of these schemes are discussed in the light of four commonly held beliefs about the value of early discharge: that early discharge schemes succeed in reducing length of stay, that early discharge schemes save money, that the welfare of patients is not reduced by early discharge and that early discharge schemes are cost-effective. The caution expressed by previous authors about the perceived advantages of early discharge schemes is still warranted.
Maximizing service delivery: one OR's experience.	Hospitals are being forced to make strategic downsizing decisions at a rapid rate. Surgical services are frequently targeted as much of the related activity is deemed to be controllable. However, strategies that only focus on bed and operating room reductions do not always achieve desired results. This article describes the experience of one community hospital in controlling surgical costs over a five-year period. The keys to its success include evaluating and monitoring the outcome of strategic decisions, identifying and integrating the systems that comprise the surgical process, and ensuring the involvement of users in developing and implementing change.
Image-guided dialysis access ports more successful, less costly than surgery.	Percutaneous dialysis catheters. Interventional radiologists can implant dialysis catheters quicker and more reliably than vascular surgeons, which can translate into big savings. A study from Yale University suggests that surgical dialysis sites may cost three times as much as percutaneous devices.
Economic evaluation of six scenarios for the treatment of stones in the kidney and ureter by surgery or extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	Health policy makers in the U.K. have had to respond to the advent of a new, high technology, method of treating stones. In order to assist the definition of an appropriate policy this evaluative study of the new technique was undertaken. The economic benefits of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) were compared with those of conventional open surgery for the treatment of upper urinary tract stones considering 6 possible 'scenarios', or intuitively plausible combinations of prices and levels of diffusion. It was concluded that second generation ESWL machines operated and financed at designated 'stone coalitions of health regions for a supra-regional population of about 12-15 million would be the most cost efficient option. Use of the currently available Dornier machine on the same supra-regional basis would be the, somewhat more expensive, second best option. These results, along with a range of supplementary documentation, were presented to both the national Department of Health and Social Security, and to the North Western Regional Health Authority. The NWRHA in turn presented its case to a supra-regional committee. The most cost-effective solution was adopted by this supra-regional committee.
Managing risk and expected financial return from selective expansion of operating room capacity: mean-variance analysis of a hospital's portfolio of surgeons.	Surgeons using the same amount of operating room (OR) time differ in their achieved hospital contribution margins (revenue minus variable costs) by >1000%. Thus, to improve the financial return from perioperative facilities, OR strategic decisions should selectively focus additional OR capacity and capital purchasing on a few surgeons or subspecialties. These decisions use estimates of each surgeon's and/or subspecialty's contribution margin per OR hour. The estimates are subject to uncertainty (e.g., from outliers). We account for the uncertainties by using mean-variance portfolio analysis (i.e., quadratic programming). This method characterizes the problem of selectively expanding OR capacity based on the expected financial return and risk of different portfolios of surgeons. The assessment reveals whether the choices, of which surgeons have their OR capacity expanded, are sensitive to the uncertainties in the surgeons' contribution margins per OR hour. Thus, mean-variance analysis reduces the chance of making strategic decisions based on spurious information. We also assess the financial benefit of using mean-variance portfolio analysis when the planned expansion of OR capacity is well diversified over at least several surgeons or subspecialties. Our results show that, in such circumstances, there may be little benefit from further changing the portfolio to reduce its financial risk.
Inguinal herniotomy in outpatient clinics and in hospital departments]	The purpose of the investigation was to examine the use of ambulatory surgery, anesthetic technique, reoperation rates, and reembursement fees after inguinal herniotomy in private outpatients clinics compared to herniotomy in hospital departments.
The emergence of a business imperative in surgical services.	In past years, scant attention was paid to the demand and rigors of the business of surgical services, and the primary role of nurse managers was as professional staff managers. Challenges from the past few years demand the development of a more focused approach to the business of surgery. The University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, met this demand by hiring a business manager for the surgical services department.
Cost effectiveness of minor surgery in general practice: a prospective comparison with hospital practice.	The cost effectiveness of general practitioners undertaking minor surgery in their practices was determined in a prospective comparison of patients having minor surgery undertaken in five general practices over a 12 week period in 1989, and in the departments of dermatology and general surgery in Rotherham District General Hospital over a contemporaneous eight week period. There were no differences between the settings in the reported rates of wound infection or other complications and only one general practice patient was subsequently referred to hospital for specialist treatment. General practitioners sent a smaller proportion of specimens to a histopathology laboratory than hospital doctors (61% versus 90%, P less than 0.001); incorrectly diagnosed a larger proportion of malignant conditions as benign (10% versus 1%, P less than 0.05) and inadequately excised 5% of lesions where this never happened in hospital (difference not significant). General practice patients had shorter waiting times between referral and treatment, spent less time and money attending for treatment and more of them were satisfied with their treatment. The cost of a procedure undertaken in general practice was less than in hospital--pounds 33.53 versus pounds 45.54 for the excision of a lesion and pounds 3.00 versus pounds 3.22 for cryotherapy of a wart (1989-90 prices). Performing minor surgery in general practice would seem cost effective compared with a hospital setting. However, the risk of general practitioners inadequately excising a malignancy and not sending it to a histopathology laboratory must be addressed and the conclusion regarding cost effectiveness only applies where general practice is a substitute for the hospital setting and not an additional activity.
Linear programming to optimize performance in a department of surgery.	Linear programming is an analytic method that can be used to develop models for health care that optimize distribution of resources through mathematical means.
Audit of general practitioner referrals to an acute surgical unit.	One hundred and ninety referrals from general practitioners (GPs) to an acute surgical unit were audited prospectively over a 6-month period. A total of 78 admissions were considered inappropriate of whom 23 patients were thought to have needed neither surgical admission nor opinion. The estimated expenditure resulting from admissions deemed inappropriate was 25,000 pounds. The daytime commitments of more senior staff on routine emergency duty days meant they were not easily available to deal with calls concerning acute GP referrals. These admissions reduce the efficiency of the service; this may be improved by a senior member of the team accepting and screening GP calls.
Project "Partnership"--university surgical departments and hospitals for basic and regular medical care. Directing cooperation for the future]	Over the last 20 years, urgently needed changes in the German health care system have forced hospitals to make a flexible adjustment to rising costs and the single handed, almost unmanageable dynamics of technical innovation in medicine. The partnership between the Salem Hospital and the Heidelberg University Hospital represents a pioneering management concept for the future. The alliance between a university surgical department with a basic peripheral hospital provides large advantages to patients, staff, hospitals and cost carriers.
Measurement issues in evaluating physicians' practice patterns using hospital billing and surgeon's self-report data.	The availability of computerized case mix data, which merge medical records information and patient billing data, provide opportunity for measuring physician-specific practice patterns. However, the validity of physician comparisons is a concern when total patient charges are measured at two points in time. In this physician-initiated multicenter study, comparisons using samples of uncomplicated, baseline cases, as determined from medical records chart reviews of five surgical procedures at three institutions, demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in average length of stay (ALOS) from 0.8 to 2.8 in seven of the 15 studies while total patient charges increased in 11 of the studies from one to 29 per cent. Billing data were useful in measuring ALOS and the frequency of specific laboratory tests ordered and then comparing these to physicians' self-report practice.
A utilization review program of cefoxitin]	A drug utilization review program of cefoxitin was conducted in a 714-bed teaching hospital. Health records of all 43 in-patients who received cefoxitin during the month of November 1987 were reviewed retrospectively. The use of cefoxitin (47 courses) was evaluated on the basis of "appropriate use" criteria developed from the literature and the physician's clinical experience. Of the 47 courses evaluated, cefoxitin was prescribed for prophylaxis in 47%, and its use was considered inappropriate in 86% of these. Overall, 66% of total cefoxitin usage was deemed inappropriate in this hospital. The cost associated with inappropriate use was estimated at $2672 for the period of the study. Corrective measures were then implemented to rectify the identified problems. A second study was conducted 2 years later to assess the impact of the corrective measures. This utilization review program of cefoxitin showed that optimal use of a drug requires not only close collaboration between pharmacists and physicians but a continuous and not a sporadic process of surveillance of the prescription for the drug being studied.
Quality assurance in Norwegian somatic hospitals]	In 1990, 70 Norwegian hospitals were mailed a questionnaire asking about quality assurance (QA) activities in the departments of internal medicine, surgery, gynaecology/obstetrics and pediatrics. Responses from 173 departments at 58 hospitals showed a marked interest in improving quality and quality assurance. However, few departments had implemented QA to any noticeable extent in their clinical practices. There were few differences between surgical and non-surgical departments. Only 30% of the respondents had established routines aimed at ensuring complete medical records. 47% had not established committees to record and evaluate accidents, or report hazards to patients, in spite of the fact that only 5% assumed QA was of little usefulness. In 1990, little time was spent on specific QA activities; the most common estimate was one hour per week. In our estimate, full QA in clinical department would require 2-5% of the total contribution of work.
Colles' fracture. Therapeutic results and use of resources. A comparative study between 2 departments in the same county]	A comparison between the functional end results of Colles' fractures, treated in two different hospitals, was performed by a follow up study of 100 patients from each hospital 18-24 months after fracture. The difference between the requirements of resources in the two hospitals were mainly: treatment of patients as outpatients or during admission and the method of anaesthesia. No significant difference in functional end result between the two groups was found. It was concluded that local anaesthesia in the fracture haematoma often is insufficient and is unpleasant for the patient. A more effective anaesthesia which can be applied polyclinically is preferable, as anaesthesia, which demands admission to the hospital, is an expensive solution and does not give a better functional end result. The "sandwich" type plaster of Paris bandage is more comfortable, safer to use with outpatients and is therefore preferable to the circular plaster of Paris bandage.
Do bad report cards have consequences? Impacts of publicly reported provider quality information on the CABG market in Pennsylvania.	Since 1992, the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council (PHC4) has published cardiac care report cards for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery providers. We examine the impact of CABG report cards on a provider's aggregate volume and volume by patient severity and then employ a mixed logit model to investigate the matching between patients and providers. We find a reduction in volume of poor performing and unrated surgeons' volume but no effect on more highly rated surgeons or hospitals of any rating. We also find that the probability that patients, regardless of severity of illness, receive CABG surgery from low-performing surgeons is significantly lower.
Advantages and disadvantages of day surgery in a department of general surgery.	We make our study of day surgery to awaken health worker that is possible to reduce the mean hospitalization time for each type of procedure: it needs improvement in communication, organizational and medical skills with a specific training both for medical and nursing staff.
Maximum surgical blood order schedule reduces hospital costs.	The maximum surgical blood order schedule (MSBOS) is a viable option for reducing unnecessary crossmatching and achieving significant cost savings in the blood bank. A MSBOS specifies, and thus limits, the amount of blood normally crossmatched for elective surgical procedures. During the first 10 months after introducing MSBOS at our hospital, there was a 33 per cent drop in the number of units of blood crossmatched for elective surgical procedures. The 712 crossmatches that were avoided saved the hospital blood bank more than $6000. Patient care was not adversely affected. Institution of MSBOS can be accomplished without difficulty by gaining input from surgeons and anesthesiologists. After implementation, follow-up is advisable to attain optimal blood use.
Treatment outcome and efficiency in surgery.	Health gains for patients treated on the surgical service of the University Hospital in Saskatoon have been measured using an illness index matrix and these gains have been related to financial costs. Although many patients benefited, 46.5% did not, either because they suffered self-limiting complaints or because their diseases were beyond the surgeon's ability to help. This 60-bed surgical service generated costs of $8 million in 1979, of which about $3 million were for services from which there was little or no gain for the patient. Since 72% of expenditures were for basic bed, board and nursing costs, more exacting use of hospital beds holds the greatest potential for increasing efficiency. There is evidence, too, that our use of medical manpower may be improvident.
Cost-effectiveness in surgery. The insurers' point of view.	Cost-effectiveness in surgery is only one example of a global health care policy by the Belgian social insurers aiming at optimal price-quality ratios for the offered care provision and within budgetary constraints. As a main partner in health care management the insurers' decision is guided by socio-economical evaluation of medical technology and care. This evaluation distinguishes respectively cost-benefit (CBA), cost-effectiveness (CEA) and cost-utility (CUA) analyses. In surgery the principles of cost-effective management are illustrated with examples for minor surgery in general practice, one day clinic, tympanostomy tube placement for recurrent otitis media, and laparoscopic vs. laparotomic cholecystectomy. Even if we need economic evaluation for policy making it can only be one instrument for making choices in the increasingly complex and expensive health care sector. To maintain the access, the quality and the actually fair cost-level in Belgium's compulsory health insurance system there is need for standardized indications, clinical guidelines, outcome evaluation and quality assurance by credentialing of providers and service centers.
The changing distribution of a major surgical procedure across hospitals: were supply shifts and disequilibrium important?	This paper describes and analyzes the changing distribution across hospitals in the U.S. of total hip replacement surgery (THR) for the period 1980-1987. THR is one of the most costly single procedures contributing to health care expenses. Also, the use of THR exhibits a particularly high degree of geographic variation. Recent research pointed to shifts in demand as one plausible economic explanation for increasing use of THR. This paper questions whether shifts in supply may have been large enough to explain changes in patient mix and the relationship of patient mix to the number of procedures performed at a particular hospital. In addition, the relationship between total use of THR and the local availability of orthopaedic surgeons as well as the average allowable Medicare fee for standardized physician services is analyzed. These relationships might yield evidence to support a scenario of induced demand beyond the optimum for patients' welfare, or evidence of supply increase within a disequilibrium scenario. This study, using data for all THR patients in a large sample of hospitals, tends to reject the formulation of a market with independent supply and demand shifts where the supply shifts were the dominant forces. Hospitals with a larger number of THRs performed did not see a higher percentage of older, sicker, and lower income patients. It was more likely that demand shifts generated increases in capacity for surgical services. Moreover, there was little evidence for a persistent disequilibrium and only weak evidence for inducement. Also, we found little evidence that hospitals responded to financial incentives inherent in the Medicare payment system after 1983 to select among THR candidates in favour of those with below average expected cost. We did observe increased concentration over time of THR procedures in facilities with high volume--suggesting plausible demand shifts towards hospitals with a priori quality and cost advantages or who obtained those advantages with a high volume of patients.
