Antibiotic prophylaxis in cardiothoracic surgery 1990: results of a third survey.	The use of prophylactic antibiotics for cardiothoracic surgery has become an accepted medical practice. The choice of drug and duration of therapy is controversial, however. In 1985 and 1988 the authors conducted telephone surveys of cardiothoracic surgery programs to determine the most frequently used agents. The survey was repeated in in 1990. In the 1990 telephone survey, all 51 hospitals contacted in 1988 responded. Of the hospitals responding, 31 (61%) had standard regimens used for all patients and 19 (37%) used automatic stop orders for these regimens. In institutions with standard regimens, 18 (58%) used first-generation cephalosporins, 8 (26%) cefuroxime and 4 (13%) cefamandole. First-generation cephalosporins were included in 33 (48%) of the 69 regimens reported to be used in all hospitals surveyed. Cefuroxime, cefamandole, ceftriaxone, and vancomycin were all used in multiple hospitals. Eight (16%) hospitals changed regimen in the last 12 months, with three of these changing to cefuroxime. The data obtained in this most recent survey are similar to the data obtained in the 1985 and 1988 reports. The results of this survey indicated that most hospitals continue to use first-generation cephalosporins for antibiotic prophylaxis in cardiothoracic surgery, but there is considerable variation among institutions.
Quality of the surveillance of surgical wound infections: a 10-year prospective study of 12,364 wounds.	We did a survey of postoperative wound infection rates in our department over a 10-year period. It was based on the results of forms completed by surgeons in the department after each operation and when an infection was diagnosed (primary registration). These forms were sent to the electronic data processing department for registration of data in a database. Every third month, detailed reports of the data were discussed with the surgeons. The quality of this routine survey was evaluated as follows: 1) Every year, the year's data in the surveys database were compared with those in the National Patient Register and, in case of discrepancies, the patient's records were checked and missing information about the operation and infections were recorded in the surveys database (secondary registration). 2) In case of a primary registered infection, the patient's record was carefully examined. Infections not fulfilling the criteria for an infection were called registration failures. The primary registration of operations reached an acceptable level (about 95%) after 5 years of the survey, but the recording of infections was unreliable throughout the study due to an unacceptably low registration rate (about 60%) and to a high rate of registration failures.
The association between hospital volume and total shoulder arthroplasty outcomes.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between increasing hospital volume and the following outcomes for total shoulder arthroplasties done in the state of New York: length of stay, hospital costs, readmission within 60 days, revision surgery within 24 months, and death within 60 days. The Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) database from the New York State Department of Health, a census of all hospital discharges in the state, was used to evaluate the relationship between hospital volume and outcomes for total shoulder arthroplasties for 1996 to 1999. One thousand three hundred seven total shoulder arthroplasties were done in New York from 1996 to 1999. Nearly (1/2) were done at the five highest-volume hospitals. Middle-volume hospitals has the least lengths of stay and hospital costs. Independent of age and comorbidities, patients at hospitals with greater volumes of total shoulder arthroplasties were at reduced risk of patients being readmitted within 60 days. No other outcomes were significantly associated with hospital volume. The finding that greater hospital volume decreases risk of readmission may have important public health implications, but additional research is needed before implementing policy changes.
The incidence of early gastric cancer continues to increase in our surgical unit.	We have investigated whether the incidence of early gastric cancer continues to increase. During the last 16 years, from January 1, 1974, through December 31, 1989, 842 patients with primary carcinoma of the stomach were admitted. Of these 842, 676 (80%) underwent gastric resections. During the first 8 years of this study, 391 patients were admitted, and during the second 8 years, 451 patients were admitted. Early cancer in the first 8 years accounted for 28% of the resected cases and 22% of the total cases of gastric cancer. In the second 8 years, early gastric cancer accounted for 38% of the resected cases and 32% of the total number of cases of gastric cancer. The number of early gastric cancers as a proportion of resected cases increased significantly in the second 8 years. Approximately 50% of early gastric cancers were detected as a result of routine upper gastrointestinal examinations which were performed on patients with no clinical features suggestive of a malignant underlying process. We emphasize that gastroenterologists are unlikely to witness a significant increase in the rate of detection of gastric cancer in the early stage as long as both double-contrast radiographic techniques and endoscopic biopsies are performed predominantly only on patients with symptoms that are apparently suggestive of gastric malignancies.
Estimating the incidence of prolonged turnover times and delays by time of day.	Prolonged turnover times cause frustration and can thereby reduce professional satisfaction and the workload surgeons bring to a hospital.
Post-craniotomy analgesia: current practices in British neurosurgical centres--a survey of post-craniotomy analgesic practices.	An evaluation of post-craniotomy analgesia within the University Hospital of Wales Neurosurgical Unit, Cardiff, found that many patients were experiencing moderate to severe pain post-craniotomy. It was therefore decided to undertake a nationwide survey of analgesic practices in order to establish best practice guidelines and benchmark with other units.
Postoperative infections in breast surgery.	The rate of infections in mastectomy wounds is apparently higher than normally allowed for in clean operations. A retrospective analysis of our results over two time periods shows a 6.4% infection rate for a one-step operation and 11.1% for a two-step operation between 1970 and 1976, compared with 2.6% and 7.6% for 1980-86, respectively. In accordance with other published reports, we found that a two-step operation, and advanced age, increase the danger of infection. The predominant pathogens were staphylococci. We advise the employment of a one-step operation in conjunction with prophylactic use of antibiotics.
Indices of surgical site infection risk and prediction of other adverse outcomes during hospitalization.	To assess which adverse postsurgical outcomes are best predicted by the Study on the Efficacy of Nosocomial Infection Control (SENIC) index and the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance system (NNIS) index.
Experience in treatment of locally disseminated and metastasizing tumors of organs of the small pelvis under conditions of surgical department of a city multifield hospital]	Combined, extended and cytoreductive operations for locally disseminated malignancies of the small pelvis organs have been widely used in the recent decade. The surgical method in this situation consists in a maximally possible ablation of all tumor foci, distant metastases included. Good equipment of the medical institution and proper qualification of the surgeons give low postoperative lethality and satisfactory long-term results.
Postoperative complications in a teaching surgical ward]	Definitive cure of the disease is the essential aim of surgical proceeding. However in some patients who are operated on, unwanted events happen, which make complete recovery delayed or even impossible. These events are known as surgical complications.
Human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis testing and prevalence among surgical patients in an urban university hospital.	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B, and hepatitis C represent significant public health problems in an urban community. Early diagnosis and treatment of these infections can improve survival and allow for preventive strategies to reduce further transmission within a community. The aim of this study was to evaluate the surgical setting as a potential opportunity for early diagnosis of HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C among trauma and non-trauma patients.
Volume-based referral for cancer surgery: informing the debate.	Mounting evidence suggests a relationship between hospital volume and outcomes after major cancer surgery; however, the absolute benefits of volume-based referral on a national basis are unclear.
Implantation of laparoscopic colon surgery in a general surgery department]	To evaluate the viability, safety and short-term results of laparoscopic colon surgery during the first few years after its introduction in our department.
Control limits for p control charts with small subgroup sizes.	The p chart is widely used in health care and other service organizations as well as in manufacturing to monitor the proportion of observations with some particular characteristic for comparing several sources of data or for tracking a single source of data over time. The conventional approach is to use 3sigma limits found by using the normal approximation to the binomial distribution. This article reviews a method for taking into account the fact that 3sigma limits are not always appropriate, and suggests the use of the exact binomial distribution instead of the normal approximation to eliminate the problems associated with small subgroups. An example with only 4 small subgroups shows that the use of probability control limits and of modified control limits avoids the above problems.
Eventrations--the prospective analysis of risk factors of eventrations patients after laparotomy treated in 8 surgical departments of Podkarpacie District]	Eventration is still a major surgical problem. Although not very common, but may cause serious complications leading to patient's death. It is observed in 0.2-7% (average 2%) of all the laparotomy. The aim of the study was the analysis of risk factors and frequency of eventrations.
Impact of hospital volume on recurrence and survival after surgery for gastric cancer.	Some, but not all, studies using registry data have suggested a small but significant long-term survival advantage following a curative surgical resection of gastric cancer at hospitals where the volume of such surgeries is high. However, because such data may be significantly influenced by the impact of postoperative mortality, and may be imbalanced for factors important to survival, the true nature of this relationship remains uncertain.
Analysis of nursing records in a surgical ward of a public teaching hospital]	This article presents a systematic descriptive and retrospective study on nursing notes on patients admitted to the surgical ward of a teaching hospital in Londrina, Paraná, Brazil, which aimed at their systematic analisys. Results show that the largest number of notes was made during the morning shift, and most of them were made by nurse auxiliaries. As to basic needs, psychobiological records were the most frequent, whereas there no psychospiritual records were found. It was concluded that nursing notes must be improved, and take into account integral care of patients.
Maintained effectiveness of an electronic alert system to prevent venous thromboembolism among hospitalized patients.	Despite current guidelines, venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis is underused. Computerized programs to encourage physicians to apply thromboprophylaxis have been shown to be effective in selected populations. Our aim was to analyze the impact of the implementation of a computer-alert system for VTE risk in all hospitalized patients of a teaching hospital. A computer program linked to the clinical record database was developed to assess all hospitalized patients' VTE risk daily. The physician responsible for patients at high risk was alerted, but remained free to order or withhold prophylaxis. Over 19,000 hospitalized, medical and surgical, adult patients between January to June 2005 (pre-intervention phase), January to June 2006 and January to June 2007 (post-intervention phase), were included. During the first semesters of 2006 and 2007, an electronic alert was sent to 32.8% and 32.2% of all hospitalized patients, respectively. Appropriate prophylaxis among alerted patients was ordered in 89.7% (2006) and 88.5% (2007) of surgical patients, and in 49.2% (2006) and 64.4% (2007) of medical patients. A sustained reduction of VTE during hospitalization was achieved, Odds ratio (OR): 0.53, 95% confidence interval (CI) (0.25-1.10) and OR: 0.51, 95%CI (0.24-1.05) during the first semesters of 2006 and 2007 respectively, the impact being significant (p < 0.05) among medical patients in 2007, OR: 0.36, 95%CI (0.12-0.98). The implementation of a computer-alert program helps physicians to assess each patient's thrombotic risk, leading to a better use of thromboprophylaxis, and a reduction in the incidence of VTE among hospitalized patients. For the first time, an intervention aimed to improve VTE prophylaxis shows maintained effectiveness over time.
Newborn emergencies in the Pediatric Surgery Service of CHU Donka]	DRANK: The goal of this work is to determine the factors of surgical mortality in period neonatal and to emphasize the difficulties of the assumption of responsibility.
Provision of general paediatric surgical services in a regional hospital.	In Ireland, specialist paediatric surgery is carried out in paediatric hospitals in Dublin. General surgeons/consultants in other surgical specialities provide paediatric surgical care in regional centres. There has been a failure to train general surgeons with paediatric skills to replace these surgeons upon retirement.
Factors influencing the selection of a hospital for colon cancer surgery in Japan: analysis of the effects of surgery volume, hospital functions, and geographic conditions.	To identify factors influencing the hospital choice of patients who undergo colon cancer surgery.
Anterior shoulder instability--the current situation]	The aim of the study was to survey the current state of the conservative and operative treatment of anterior shoulder instability and its rehabilitation in German hospitals.
Work load of anesthesiologists at the Central Surgical Unit of the Jichi Medical University Hospital]	Since the diagnosis procedure combination (DPC) for health insurance plans in Japan was started in medical practice, the number of surgical procedures is increasing at teaching hospitals.
Esophagectomy outcomes at low-volume hospitals: the association between systems characteristics and mortality.	To evaluate the association between systems characteristics and esophagectomy mortality at low-volume hospitals
A comparison of ambulatory perioperative times in hospitals and freestanding centers.	The volume of surgical procedures performed in ambulatory surgical centers has increased rapidly.
Nursing critical patient severity classification system predicts outcomes in patients admitted to surgical intensive care units: use of data from clinical data repository.	To examine the Critical Patient Severity Classification System (CPSCS) recorded by nurses to predict ICU and hospital lengths of stay and mortality, data were drawn from patients admitted to 2 surgical intensive care units (SICUs) at a university hospital in Seoul, South Korea in 2010. This retrospective study used a large data set retrieved from the Clinical Data Repository System. Among 1432 patients, the mean grade of CPSCS was 4.9 out of 6, which indicated that the subjects had generally severe conditions. The CPSCS was a statistically significant predictor of ICU and hospital LOS and mortality when patients' demographic characteristics were adjusted. In the era of emphasis on using big data, analysis of nursing assessment data should be evaluated to show importance of nursing contribution to predict patients' clinical outcomes. 
Surgical conditions account for the majority of admissions to three primary referral hospitals in rural Mozambique.	The World Health Organization has identified the primary referral hospital as its priority site for improving surgical care in low- and middle-income countries. Little is known about the relative burden surgical patients place on health care facilities at this level. This research estimates the fraction of admissions due to surgical conditions at three hospitals in rural Mozambique.
Fifty consecutive free flaps in a new microsurgical unit.	Fifty free flap operations in 49 patients were performed in Oulu University Central Hospital during a three year period. The patients' ages ranged from 15 to 83 years; mean 41 years. The indication for the operation was malignant tumor in 19 cases, benign tumor in one case, trauma in 28 cases and congenital anomaly in 2 cases. The radial forearm flap was used in 36 cases; latissimus dorsi in 7 cases; lateral arm, rectus abdominis, and fibula in two cases; and second toe in one case. Forty-nine of the fifty flaps were successful (98%); two venous thromboses were successfully revised. Starting microsurgery in a new unit is demanding but also rewarding due to the good results.
Can a surgical treatment centre reduce waiting lists? Results of a natural experiment.	To determine the effectiveness of the Welsh general surgery (hernia and varicose veins) treatment centre established as part of the NHS reforms, in terms of its impact upon throughput and waiting lists.
Nosocomial infection in surgery wards: a controlled study of increased duration of hospital stays and direct cost of hospitalization.	Excess length of hospital stays and associated costs were assessed in patients hospitalized in the department of general and digestive surgery who acquired nosocomial infections. A prospective study of matched infected-uninfected patients nested in a cohort was used to estimate the length of the hospital stay of infected patients. Matched controls were obtained with respect to patient exact primary diagnosis, operative procedure and classification, age and, if possible, underlying disease, elective or emergency procedure and invasive devices. Superficial surgical wound infection prolonged the average hospital stay of the nosocomially infected patient by an average of 12.6 days, wound infection (deep and superficial) by 14.3 days and infections other than wound infection by 7.3 days as compared to the uninfected matched controls.
Deliveries at a department of surgery during a 10-year period]	In order to see whether the pattern of referral of pregnant women, intervention during labour and transport of neonates had changed over a 10-year period, we investigated these variables in the women who gave birth at our department of surgery in 1978, 1981 and 1988. The numbers of women were 790, 630 and 697 respectively for the three years, and the corresponding numbers of neonates transferred to the neonatal unit were 56, 44 and 53 respectively. The frequencies of risk pregnancies increased from 20% in 1978 to 37.7% in 1999, (p < 10(-6) and the frequency of primiparity increased from 43% to 51.2% over the same period (p < 10(-5)). More women underwent elective caesarean section due to an increased number of breech presentation in nulliparous women (p < 10(-3)). The frequency of induction of labour decreased from 21.7% to 16.5% (p < 10(-6)). The perinatal mortality ranges between 0% to 0.48% during the 10 years, and the rates of transfer of neonates to the neonatal unit were unchanged (7.1-7.6%). It is concluded that changes in referral and composition of the population had no influence on the incidence of acute intervention in labour or rate of neonatal transfer.
Outbreak of nosocomial urinary tract infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a paediatric surgical unit associated with tap-water contamination.	An outbreak of 14 cases of urinary tract infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including six symptomatic infections, occurred from September to November 1994 in a paediatric surgical unit. During the outbreak, urine samples from patients and multiple samples from the environment of patients were tested for the presence of P. aeruginosa. Bacterial isolates were studied by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Genotypic analysis showed that most of the isolates from children were different. Multiple P. aeruginosa isolates were also found in the tap water, as the only putative source of contamination. Two of these isolates were identified in two infected patients, indicating possible direct contamination of patients via tap water and this was related to the distal colonization of faucets. Bacteria were eradicated from tap water by replacement of taps. The cluster of cases of P. aeruginosa urinary infection was, therefore, related to multiple contaminations through tap water. These results illustrate an unexpected risk of nosocomial infection and emphasizes the importance of checking tap water to prevent bacterial contamination through handwashing in contaminated water.
Survey of 39 South East Group hospital centers on the practice of antibiotic prophylaxis in surgery]	A survey was carried out in 39 hospitals regarding the prescribing of perioperative antibiotics. The day of the survey, hospital pharmacists collected information on prescription patterns of antibiotics and, for 3 days, the duration of their administration. A total of 1,131 cases were surveyed, originating from digestive surgery (20%), orthopaedics (31%), gynaecology (15%), ophthalmic surgery (15%), and others (19%). Duration of surgery was 72 +/- 68 min. For all types of surgeries, antibiotics not recommended by the French consensus conference were prescribed. Third generation cephalosporins were used in 17% of patients in gynaecological surgery. In 20% of cases, antibiotics were administered at an inappropriate time: 9.5% after the beginning of surgery, 8% at the time of pre-medication, and 2.5% the day before surgery. Administration exceeded 48 hours in 10% of the cases. In conclusion, special attention should be paid to limit the prescription of third generation cephalosporins, to inject antibiotic at the induction of anaesthesia and to reduce the duration of their administration.
Audit of 2431 admissions to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit, Singapore General Hospital.	A prospective analysis of 2431 patients admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) of Singapore General Hospital was conducted between January 1994 and June 1997. All patients were followed up until hospital discharge. This ongoing project serves as both audit and quality assurance in the SICU. The mean APACHE II score of patients was 12.67 +/- 8.36 and the mean age was 59.17 +/- 17.82 years. There were 157 re-admissions, giving a re-admission rate of 6.46%. Mortality rate for re-admitted patients was 48.4%. One hundred and four (4%) patients stayed in the SICU for more than 2 weeks. Thirty (29%) died before the SICU discharge. SICU mortality was 9.46%, hospital mortality was 10.86% and standardised mortality ratio was 1.95. Computerised tools that analyse ICU utilisation patterns and outcomes have the potential to better target resources and so lower hospital costs, reducing futile medical care by selecting patients for appropriate expensive ICU care.
Use of psychotropic drugs in gynecological, surgical, and medical wards of general hospitals.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the prevalence of psychotropic drug use and the predictors of use during hospitalization.
Ambulatory and inpatient procedures in the United States, 1996.	This report presents estimates of surgical and nonsurgical procedures performed in the United States during 1996. Data are presented by characteristics of patients, region of the country, and procedure categories for ambulatory and inpatient procedures separately and combined.
