Patients' experience of surgical accidents.	To examine the psychological impact of surgical accidents and assess the adequacy of explanations given to the patients involved.
Cardiac outcome of major noncardiac surgery in patients undergoing preoperative coronary angioplasty.	Patients with significant coronary artery disease are at increased risk for myocardial infarction and death when undergoing major noncardiac surgery, particularly vascular, thoracic and upper abdominal procedures.  Revascularization with coronary bypass surgery has shown to be effective in reducing perioperative coronary events in such patients.  Little data is available on the role of preoperative coronary angioplasty in this setting.  The objective of this study was to determine the perioperative cardiac outcome in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty within six weeks of major noncardiac surgery. We analyzed our experience with 108 consecutive patients (85 males) with a mean age of 68 years (range 41-83) who underwent coronary angioplasty within 42 days of a major operative procedure, which was defined as either a vascular, thoracic or upper abdominal procedure. Multivessel disease was present in 48% of patients.  Angioplasty success rate was 97% with 33 (31%) patients having more than one lesion dilated.  Angioplasty complications included 1 stroke and 4 non-Q wave myocardial infarctions.  The mean time from angioplasty to operative procedure was 14.5 days (range 0-41 days).  Ninety six (91%) of the patients underwent vascular surgery--including 42 abdominal aneurysm repairs, 29 carotid endarterectomies, 21 lower extremity bypass operations and four renal artery bypass procedures.  Eight patients had major abdominal surgery and one patient had a thoracic procedure.  Postoperative cardiac complications included three non-Q wave myocardial infarctions and one Q-wave myocardial infarction which resulted in the only cardiac death (0.9%).  There were no sustained ventricular arrhythmias.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
"Burns" occurring during lengthy surgical procedures.	Accidental burns or burn-like injuries continue to occur during lengthy surgical procedures. Many remain unexplained as to the cause. The threat of litigation suppresses discussion of the incidence of injuries of this type -- which are not uncommon. The same threat appears to have suppressed wider discussion of potential solutions. Many of these burn-like injuries are not burns but pressure sores, and as such are preventable. Strategies for reducing the numbers of injuries of this type are discussed.
Perioperative resuscitation knowledge base.	To assess the knowledge base of Canadian anesthesiologists regarding the management of perioperative cardiac arrest.
Risk factors for hospital-acquired Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.	Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia (SAB) acquired in hospitals continues to be a frequent and serious complication to hospitalization, and no previous case-control studies dealing with risk factors of this severe disease are available.
Procedure-dependence and tissue factor-independence of hypercoagulability during orthopaedic surgery.	The increased risk for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) after orthopaedic surgery has been well documented as well as hypercoagulable state during both total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee replacement (TKR). To investigate the influence of the surgical procedure [posterolateral (PL) or lateral (L) approach for THA, use of tourniquet (TQ) or not use of TQ for TKR] on the hypercoagulability and the role of extrinsic pathway activation and endothelial stimulation during orthopaedic surgery we have examined 40 patients (20 patients undergoing primary THA--10 with PL approach and 10 with L approach--and 20 patients undergoing TKR--10 with TQ application and 10 without TQ). Thrombin-antithrombin complexes (TAT), tissue factor (TF), tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), thrombomodulin (TM) and von Willebrand factor antigen (vWF:Ag) were analyzed before and during the orthopaedic surgery. During THA, TAT plasma levels increased more markedly in patients assigned to the L than PL approach (p <0.05); during TKR an elevation of TAT of higher degree (p <0.05) was observed when TQ was not applicated. Blood clotting activation was significantly (p <0.001) more relevant during THA than TKR. No changes in TF and vWF:Ag plasma levels were observed in all patients undergoing THA and TKR. TFPI plasma levels significantly (p <0.05) decreased 1 h after the end of the THA in group PL and group L, whereas they remained unaffected in the two groups of patients undergoing TKR. Similarly TM plasma levels significantly decreased during THA, but not during TKR. In conclusion, these results show that: 1) the site of surgical procedures and the type of approach affect the degree of hypercoagulability, 2) the blood clotting activation takes place in the early phases of orthopaedic surgery, without signs of extrinsic pathway and endothelial activation.
The incidence and nature of surgical adverse events in Colorado and Utah in 1992.	Despite more than three decades of research on iatrogenesis, surgical adverse events have not been subjected to detailed study to identify their characteristics. This information could be invaluable, however, for guiding quality assurance and research efforts aimed at reducing the occurrence of surgical adverse events. Thus we conducted a retrospective chart review of 15,000 randomly selected admissions to Colorado and Utah hospitals during 1992 to identify and analyze these events.
Tension hemothorax following abdominal surgery - a rare presentation of congenital diaphragmatic defect.	Small congenital diaphragmatic defects are usually occult, but can present as a problem in patients with increased abdominal fluid as unilateral massive hydrothorax. We present a unique case presentation of a small congenital diaphragmatic defect.
The obligation of means and the obligation of results]	Several important decisions were made in 2000 concerning the proof of malpractice and the fundamental principles of medical responsibility. In order to guarantee indemnities for victims of medical accidents, the French courts have facilitated the implication of medical responsibility for medical accidents. The notion of a "virtual fault" was developed allowing the courts to retain the responsibility of the surgeon for instance for injury to the sublingual nerve during extraction of a wisdom tooth or for injury to the popliteal artery (March 23, 2000). These decisions not only facilitate the demonstration of malpractice but also modify the definition of responsibility, all physicians being required to use all available means. Likewise, although jurisprudence asserts that a safe result is mandatory in certain areas, the essential obligation is the absence of "fault" and not the result despite the disquieting arguments put forward by the Paris appeals court in its January 15, 1999 decree. The patient's right to a result was sustained only in well defined areas.
Hypoxia and surgical patients--prevention and treatment of an unnecessary cause of morbidity and mortality.	Hypoxia is a common phenomenon peri-operatively. Although mild hypoxaemia of short duration is likely to have little effect more severe and prolonged hypoxaemia can seriously affect surgical outcome. Rational use of oxygen therapy may limit these adverse effects.
Incidence and predictors of surgical-site infections in Vietnam.	To determine the incidence of, and risk factors for, surgical-site infections (SSIs).
Surgical smoke: a review of the literature. Is this just a lot of hot air?	Surgical smoke is omnipresent in the day-to-day life of the surgeon and other medical personnel who work in the operating room. In addition, patients are also exposed, especially and uniquely so in laparoscopic cases where smoke is created and trapped in a closed and absorptive space. Surgical smoke has typically been produced by electrocautery but is now ever more present in a new form with the burgeoning use of the laser and the harmonic scalpel. Several cases of transmission of human papillomavirus (HPV) from patient to treating professional via laser smoke have alerted us to the reality that surgical smoke in certain situations is far form benign. However, surgeons rarely take measures to protect themselves, their co-coworkers and patients from surgical smoke. Should we and, if so, how do we differentiate between different types of smoke and should we move toward increasing our efforts to protect ourselves, our co-workers, and patients from it? This article attempts to sort through the available data and draw some reasonable conclusions regarding surgical smoke. In general, surgical smoke is a biohazard and cannot be ignored. At a minimum, surgical smoke is a toxin similar to cigarette smoke. However, other dangers exist. This is especially true in specific circumstances such as when tissue infected with dangerous viruses is aerosolized by lasers. In addition, smoke generated by the harmonic scalpel, being a relatively cold vapor similar to laser smoke, should be further investigated for its potential ill effects and until then, looked upon with reasonable caution. Although not a high-priority in most surgical cases, surgeons should support efforts to minimize OR personnel, patients, and their own exposure to surgical smoke.
Effects of exogenous recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (filgrastim, rhG-CSF) on neutrophils of critically ill patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome depend on endogenous G-CSF plasma concentrations on admission.	To investigate the effects of exogenous recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF; filgrastim) application on the neutrophils of patients at risk of sepsis following major trauma or operation.
Surgical adverse events, risk management, and malpractice outcome: morbidity and mortality review is not enough.	To review all admissions (age > 13) to three surgical patient care centers at a single academic medical center between January 1, 1995, and December 6, 1999, for significant surgical adverse events.
Analysis of errors reported by surgeons at three teaching hospitals.	Little is known of the factors that underlie surgical errors. Incident reporting has been proposed as a method of obtaining information about medical errors to help identify such factors.
Temporal patterns of postoperative complications.	A variety of major complications occur after intra-abdominal operations. Knowledge of when specific complications occur during the postoperative period would be useful in their diagnosis, prevention, and management. Our aim was to determine the incidence of major complications during specific postoperative intervals.
Outcome of aspirin use during excision of cutaneous lesions.	The perioperative course of 253 patients undergoing excision of cutaneous and subcutaneous lesions by the same surgeon was evaluated, comparing patients using aspirin and those not using aspirin. Intraoperative methods of obtaining hemostasis and the incidence of postoperative complications were evaluated. Suture ligatures were used more frequently in the group using aspirin, but there was no statistical difference in the use of electrocautery. There was also no difference in the incidence of wound dehiscence, erythema, or hematoma. The outcome of excision of cutaneous and subcutaneous lesions under local anesthesia is not affected by patients using aspirin.
Preoperative oral celecoxib versus preoperative oral rofecoxib for pain relief after thyroid surgery.	The study compared the analgesic efficacy and safety of two preoperatively administered cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors, celecoxib and rofecoxib.
Sutureless Lichtenstein: first results of a prospective randomised clinical trial.	Inguinal hernia repair, according to Lichtenstein, is very popular due to its minimal invasiveness (local anaesthesia), easy and reproducible technique, low recurrence rate, and low morbidity. However, recent publications demonstrate an elevated rate of chronic irritations and pain, probably due to tension or nerve compression by the fixing sutures. We, therefore, established a concept to avoid these sutures by attaching the prosthesis with glue. After a pilot study, a randomised prospective trial was started. The aim of our study was to compare the results of the classical Lichtenstein repair (group 1) vs the "Sutureless Lichtenstein" (group 2) in terms of postoperative complications and recurrences. Operative access and management of the hernial sac was equal to Lichtenstein for both groups. In group 1, we sutured the mesh with PDS 2/0; in group 2, the mesh was glued with n-butyl-cyanoacrylate. In both groups, the operation was then completed according to Lichtenstein, and unrestricted activity was allowed after 2 weeks. A total of 46 patients have been operated on. The follow-up results at 3 weeks and [3 months] were: group 1 ( n=24) vs group 2 ( n=22): recurrences 0 [0] vs 0 [0], minor pain 8 [4] vs 4 [1], local numbness 14 [10] vs 10 [6]. No adhesive-related complications were seen. Patients will be followed for 2 years. The results in group 2 were excellent, and there was no difference vs group 1. Furthermore, there was a tendency for better results in group 2. These results are very promising and justify a continuation of the study.
Ultrasound detection of visceral adhesion after intraperitoneal ventral hernia treatment: a comparative study of protected versus unprotected meshes.	Intraperitoneal (IP) ventral hernia repair has been proposed with the advantages of reducing dissection, operative time, and postoperative pain. The IP position of the mesh is suspected of increasing the risk of visceral adhesion and inducing complications. To overcome these drawbacks, a mesh protected on one side by a hydrophilic resorbable film (Parietex Composite) has been validated. Using a previously described ultrasound procedure, the purpose of this study was to compare the rate of visceral adhesion after intraperitoneal placement of a polyester mesh versus this protected mesh. Fifty-one patients who received a Parietex Composite mesh were prospectively compared to a retrospective series of 22 consecutive asymptomatic patients who received a Mersilene mesh. To objectively assess visceral adhesion toward the abdominal wall, an ultrasound (US) specific examination was firstly validated and secondly used to evaluate the adhesion incidence in both groups. Both groups were equivalent in terms of inclusion criteria and body mass index (BMI). Pre-operative US versus perioperative macroscopical findings determined the following parameters: sensitivity 83%, accuracy 78%, negative predictive value 81%. Using this procedure, 77% of the patients exhibited visceral adhesion to the mesh in the Mersilene group, against 18% in the Parietex Composite group (P<0.001, chi-square). US examination represents a suitable tool to evaluate postoperative adhesions to the abdominal wall. Using this procedure, a significant reduction of visceral adhesion in the Parietex Composite group was shown.
Acute wound healing: the biology of acute wound failure.	Acute wound healing failure is an important source of morbidity and mortality for surgical patients. Many incisional hernias, gastrointestinal anastomotic leaks, and vascular pseudoaneurysms occur despite patient optimization and standardized surgical technique. Modern surgical experience suggests that biologic and mechanical pathways overlap during "normal" acute wound healing. The cellular and molecular processes activated to repair tissue from the moment of injury are under the control of biologic and mechanical signals. Successful acute wound healing occurs when a dynamic balance is met between the loads placed across a provisional matrix and the feedback and feed-forward responses of repair cells.
Inflammatory mediators in wound healing.	This article provides much evidence that the inflammatory process has direct effects on normal and abnormal wound healing. As better understanding develops for the mechanism for these outcomes, targeted proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory interventions are likely to be successful. When inflammation is maintained as a regulated and orchestrated response, effective and normal wound healing is likely to result.
Arresting cell cycles and the effect on wound healing.	Wounds that contain a significant number of fibroblasts that are arrested because of senescence, damaged DNA, or enduring quiescence do not heal. As the arrested population of cells decreases and more cells that divide and contribute to wound repair populate the wound, the wound is more likely to achieve closure. Having an understanding of the regulatory mechanisms within the cell cycle is important to wound repair, particularly chronic wounds. The theory of cellular senescence in chronic wounds is new and has never been tested. Studies seem to show that senescent cells in chronic wounds are a significant part of the wounding process. Senescence is irreversible, and senescent cells are refractory to growth factor therapy. Future growth factor therapies or genetic transfections that are capable of repairing the short circuit in cycling cells or overriding the senescent condition will be important partners in the successful treatment of chronic wound patients.
Nitric oxide and wound repair.	NO produced by both iNOS and eNOS plays many important roles in wound healing, from the inflammatory phase through to scar remodeling. NO has cytostatic, chemotactic, and vasodilatory effects during early wound repair, regulates proliferation and differentiation of several cell types, modulates collagen deposition and angiogenesis, and affects wound contraction. The data accumulated thus far indicates that the timing, level, and site of NO production are highly coordinated in normal wound repair. Defining states resulting from either inadequate substrate or depressed enzyme expression appear to contribute to impaired wound repair; however, NO represents only one factor in the complex process of wound healing. Approaches to improve NO availability may be of therapeutic value.
Growth factors in wound healing.	Enhancement of wound healing was limited to good surgical technique, maintenance of a clean wound with appropriate dressings, and debridement. The ability to heal wounds has been advanced through the recognition that healing in a moist environment is improved over that of a desiccated wound. Pharmacologic approaches to wound healing did not exist until the last few decades, when it was recognized that growth factors are normally present in the wound environment and that in animal models and a few clinical studies, the addition of growth factors could enhance healing. In 1998, platelet-derived growth factor was approved for clinical use. This approach is still the subject of intense investigation and clinical trials. This article analyzes current knowledge on growth factors as therapeutic agents and speculates on their future potential, with an analysis of successes and failures to date.
Wound-healing trajectories.	Healing of a wound is a dynamic process involving soluble mediators, a variety of cells, and extracellular matrix. These components are involved in a number of different processes or steps in healing, including coagulation, inflammation, fibroplasia, collagen deposition, epithelialization, and scar contraction with remodeling. The processes can be organized into three phases: inflammation, fibroplasia, and remodeling. The events in healing occur in an orderly and timely fashion, and there is significant overlap between each of the processes.
Proliferative scarring.	Proliferative scarring in all organ systems is an enigma. Treatment has been difficult to impossible because the pathobiology of exuberant scarring and fibrosis was unclear. With the concept that proliferative scarring can be viewed on the healing trajectory and dissected into variations of the normal wound healing cellular processes mediated by soluble cytokine messengers, one can begin to understand how excessive scar formation occurs. Realizing that overexpression or dysregulated activity of the fibrogenic isoforms of TGF-beta and its attendant effect on apoptosis may be responsible for proliferative scarring opens the route to propose rational molecular manipulations that can be tested for the prevention or treatment of this enigmatic condition.
Nutrition and wound healing.	The relationship between host nutrition and wound healing has been the subject of study and experimentation for centuries. Despite the many years of study and a substantial knowledge base of the specific processes and factors involved, wound healing remains enigmatic. There is still much to learn about the wound-specific nutritional interventions that are available to improve wound healing. Nutrition profoundly influences the process of wound healing. Nutritional depletion exerts an inhibitory effect, and nutritional supplementation with such positive effectors as arginine can stimulate wound healing. Within this paradigm, the physician should be able to recognize patients who may be expected to have wound healing difficulties and offer early intervention to avoid wound failure.
Gene therapy in wound healing.	Gene therapy is a new and emerging technology that has been catalyzed by the progress of the Human Genome Project. It employs the process of manipulating genes to achieve a clinically beneficial alteration in gene product. Wound healing lends itself to the application of gene therapy by virtue of the vast array of proteins involved in its complex cascade. This article provides an overview of the background to gene therapy and describes current techniques in use as applied to wound healing. The authors show the potential role that many candidate genes may offer in the future for optimizing wound healing through gene therapy.
Wound dressings.	There are currently hundreds of dressings on the market to aid in wound management. Before selecting a dressing for a particular wound, a practitioner must assess carefully the needs of the wound to understand which dressing would provide maximal benefit. Frequently, there is not one clear best choice, and it is crucial that the pros and cons of each dressing modality be understood. This article has provided a framework to assist in dressing assessment.
Reverse brain herniation during posterior fossa surgery.	Posterior fossa tumors are commonly associated with obstructive hydrocephalus. Relieving the raised intracranial pressure by draining the cerebrospinal fluid presents the possibility of reverse herniation of the brain. A 5-year-old male child with a diagnosis of posterior fossa space-occupying lesion and hydrocephalus was scheduled for craniectomy in the prone position. After craniectomy, the surgeons placed an intraventricular shunt catheter to drain out cerebrospinal fluid in an attempt to reduce the tense brain so as to facilitate easy dissection of the tumor. The patient had sudden and severe bradycardia followed by asystole. A diagnosis of reverse coning was made. Immediately, the surgeon injected 10-15 mL normal saline into the ventricles. There was a spontaneous return of the sinus rhythm and the rest of the course of surgery was uneventful. We present this case showing a rare phenomenon and its successful management.
Neonatal procedural pain: a survey of nursing staff.	This study explored aspects of neonatal procedural pain and its assessment and management by nursing staff working in neonatal units. Twenty-one neonatal nursing staff from three units were surveyed. They were all grade D or above and had between one and 15 years' experience with neonates. A self-completion questionnaire was used to investigate attitudes to neonatal pain, pain assessment approaches and pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods used. Staff underestimated the pain caused by procedures. Pain assessment tools were used by 48 per cent of respondents and pharmacological methods of pain management were rarely used. Non-nutritive sucking was used by 66 per cent of respondents but other methods of non-pharmacological management were under-utilised. The use of pain protocols may be beneficial in increasing administration of analgesia and use of non-pharmacological methods of relief for procedure-related pain. Education is also required about analgesics and their use in neonates.
One-stage reconstruction of facial paralysis associated with severe skin scar deformity, using combined flexor carpi radialis muscle and radial forearm free flap.	The authors present a case of free microsurgical transfer of combined flexor carpi radialis muscle and radial fasciocutaneous forearm flap in reconstruction of facial paralysis associated with severe ipsilateral skin scar deformity after removal of a giant cavernous hemangioma 22 years previously. The flexor carpi radialis muscle was used to reanimate the paralyzed face, and its fasciocutaneous radial forearm part restored overlying hemifacial skin, with good functional and rather pleasing aesthetic results. The follow-up period was 5 years.
Setting a research agenda on patient safety in surgical settings.	A culture of safety is an achievable objective for perioperative management. Research in analysis, safety factors, alarms, instruction, and management can make this change rapidly. It is important to build the data and evidence for those practices that show improved patient outcomes. Those practices and the processes that develop them should be sanctioned by responsible organizations in active collaboration.
Risk factors for surgical site infection in the patient with spinal injury.	A retrospective chart review of 1561 patients with spinal injury was conducted over a 4-year period.
Epidemiology and impact of aspiration pneumonia in patients undergoing surgery in Maryland, 1999-2000.	The epidemiology of aspiration pneumonia and its impact on clinical and economic outcomes in surgical patients are poorly defined. We sought to identify preoperative patient characteristics and surgical procedures that are associated with an increased risk for aspiration pneumonia and to determine the clinical and economic impact in hospitalized surgical patients.
Intermittent hepatic ischemia-reperfusion minimizes liver metastasis in rats.	Surgical stresses, including hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R), promote cancer growth and metastasis. We have reported that continuous hepatic I/R increases liver damage and promoted liver metastasis from colon cancer, whereas intermittent I/R causes less liver damage. We therefore examined whether intermittent I/R could reduce liver metastasis in a rat model.
Anesthesia-related mortality and morbidity over a 5-year period in 2,363,038 patients in Japan.	Statistical data of mortality and morbidity related to anesthesia have not been reported in Japan since World War II. The need to comprehensively examine the events of cardiac arrest as well as mortality prompted the first national study in Japan.
Procalcitonin: improved biochemical severity stratification and postoperative monitoring in severe abdominal inflammation and sepsis.	Infections and sepsis are among the most devastating complications in abdominal surgery and significantly contribute to morbidity and mortality. Early and reliable diagnosis of septic complications is notoriously difficult, and the search for novel approaches to overcome this problem is still a compelling issue for clinicians. Among a large array of inflammatory parameters, procalcitonin (PCT), the 116-amino-acid pro-peptide of calcitonin, has gained considerable importance in identifying patients at risk of developing infection and sepsis in clinical practice.
Surgical risk management: the value of a weekly surgical radio-pathological meeting.	Clinical risk management in surgery involves organizational practices focused on the prevention of adverse outcomes. The present study evaluates the value of a weekly clinical meeting involving surgeons, radiologists and pathologists as a model of clinical risk management within a general surgical department.
Enteral nutrition: past and future]	Perioperative nutrition has during the last century been transformed from a tool to provide calorie and nitrogen support to a tool to boost the immune system and increase resistance to complications. Despite all progress in medicine and surgery has perioperative morbidity, rate of infections, thrombosis and development of serosal adhesions remained the same as long as can be judged or at least during the last eighty years. Most prone to develop complications are persons above the age of 65 and persons with depressed immunity. About eighty percent of the immune system is localised in the gastrointestinal tract, which offers great opportunities for modulation through enterar nutrition. As the stomach has a tendency to develop postoperative paralysis, tube feeding is often necessary. Andresen demonstrated already in 1918 the advantages of enteral nutrition, which starts already on the table. Mulholland et al and Rhoads and co-workers demonstrated during the 1940s certain advantages of enteral tube feeding. Also works by Alexander, Fischer, Ryan and their co-workers supported the value of early enteral feeding, and suggested enteral feeding as an effective tool to boost the immune system. It was, however, works published in the early nineties by Moore et al and by Kudsk et al, which made surgeons more aware of the advantages of early enteral nutrition. Major surgery is known to have a high rate of complications. Uninterrupted perioperative nutrition, eg nutrition during the night before, during surgery and immediately after offers a strong tool to prevent complications. It is essential that the nutrition provides food also for the colon, e.g. fibres and healthy bacteria (probiotics) to ferment the fibre and boost the immune system.
Prospective randomized trial of submucosal hemorrhoidectomy with radiofrequency bistoury vs. conventional Parks' operation.	Postoperative pain has always been the main adverse effect of the surgical treatment for hemorrhoids. Surgical techniques evolved mainly to solve this problem as well as postoperative bleeding, stenosis and recurrence. This randomized study compared the results obtained using submucosal hemorrhoidectomy with radiofrequency bistoury with those of the conventional Parks' operation.
Surgical site infection of 7301 traumatologic inpatients (divided in two sub-cohorts, study and validation): modifiable determinants and potential benefit.	The widespread use of peri-surgical chemoprophylaxis is decreasing the incidence of surgical site infection in Traumatology, which nevertheless remains as a problem amenable to further reduction. We have tried to identify modifiable determinants of the avoidable incidence of surgical site infection, and to estimate the potential benefit from implementing adequate measures targeting those determinants. In a firts sub-cohort of 5320 traumatologic patients with a post-surgical stay of more than 2 days, in Madrid's La Paz Hospital, between 1991 and 1996. The epidemiological surveillance was prospective during their hospital stay but also includes data on readmissions due to infection so as to analyse the actual incidence of surgical site infection, both before and after discharge. Bivariate and multivariate (multiple logistic regression model) analyses of risk factors for surgical site infections have been performed. In this sub-cohort, 212 patients (3.9%) suffered some type of nosocomial infection. The incidence of surgical site infection before discharge in cases of clean surgery was 1.6%, rising to 2% when cases readmitted for infection after discharge were considered. The multivariate analysis of risk factors for surgical site infection identified the following: contaminated ('dirty') surgery (OR: 10.5), inadequate chemoprophylaxis (OR: 1.5) and a pre-surgical stay of more than 4 days (OR: 1.6). Next, a second sub-cohort, consisting of 1981 patients, treated between 1997 and 1999, was analysed to validate the results of the first multivariate analysis. The validation model (and the global cohort with 7301 patients) corroborates the importance of the same three factors. Last, we calculated that controlling two modifiable factors, pre-surgical stay and peri-surgical chemoprophylaxis, could avoid 56% of surgical site infections.
Thirty-five-year institutional experience with end-to-side repair for esophageal atresia.	End-to-side repair (ES) with ligation of the tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) reduces the risks of stricture and gastroesophageal reflux disease requiring operation compared with the end-to-end repair of esophageal atresia and distal TEF.
Prophylactic and therapeutic recombinant factor VIIa administration to patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia: results of an international survey.	Antibodies to glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa and/or HLA may render platelet transfusions ineffective to stop bleeding or to cover surgery in patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia (GT). Anecdotal reports suggest recombinant factor (rF)VIIa might be a therapeutic alternative in these situations.
Surgical management of head and neck malignancy.	More than 90% of head and neck tumours are squamous cell carcinomas. This review focuses on tumours arising from the mucosal surfaces of the upper aerodigestive tract. We discuss the aetiology, presentation and investigation of these tumours and give special attention to their management which may comprise surgical resection, chemoradiation or combined therapy. The surgical treatment of the clinically positive neck and the somewhat controversial topic of management of the N0 neck are also discussed.
The metabolic response to stress: a case of complex nutrition support management.	The ICU patient with burns, neurotrauma, sepsis, or major surgery typifies the classic hypermetabolic patient. These patients have increased energy and nutrient needs as a result of their injuries and require early nutrition support. Although these patients are likely to benefit from nutritional intervention, the complexity of the stress response to injury and subsequent changes in nutrient metabolism make the design and implementation of nutrition care challenging. This article reviews the pathophysiology of common hypermetabolic conditions and provides strategies to manage the complications associated with nutrition support.
Salvage of partial facial soft tissue avulsions with medicinal leeches.	Medicinal leeches have been demonstrated to be extremely useful and safe in the salvage of venous outflow compromised tissue, particularly in digit replants and various forms of flaps.
Melanoma arising in a skin graft.	Cutaneous melanoma remains an ongoing public health threat, and the cornerstone of management continues to be early diagnosis and treatment. Unfortunately, primary melanomas may have atypical presentations, making early diagnosis difficult and causing significant treatment delays. In this report, an unusual case is presented in which a patient experienced the synchronous development of a melanoma in situ within a skin graft donor site and an invasive melanoma within the recipient skin graft site. This exceptional presentation of cutaneous melanoma is discussed to highlight key principles of skin grafting in relation to the management of malignant melanoma.
Effects of halothane and isoflurane on hyperexcitability of spinal dorsal horn neurons after incision in the rat.	The aim of this study was to determine whether halothane and isoflurane used during and after surgical injury attenuate subsequent hyperexcitability of spinal dorsal horn (SDH) neurons by preventing development of central sensitization.
Perioperative posterior ischemic optic neuropathy: review of the literature.	Posterior ischemic optic neuropathy (PION) is an uncommon cause of perioperative visual loss. Perioperative PION has been most frequently reported after spinal surgery and radical neck dissection. The visual loss typically presents immediately after recovery from anesthesia, although it may be delayed by several days. Visual loss is often bilateral and profound with count fingers vision or worse. The examination findings are consistent with an optic neuropathy; however the funduscopic examination is initially normal. The cause is unknown, although patient-specific susceptibility to perioperative hemodynamic derangements is likely. No treatment has proven to be effective. The prognosis for visual recovery is generally poor.
Surgery groups differed in adverse outcome probabilities and can be used to adjust hospital comparisons.	In the Netherlands, all procedures in general surgery are categorized into 12 surgery groups by the Association of Surgeons of the Netherlands. The purpose of this study was to assess whether surgery groups differ in adverse outcome probabilities, to decide whether hospital comparisons on adverse outcomes should be adjusted for differences in surgery groups.
Invasive techniques in emergency medicine. IV. Cricothyrotomy in emergency situations]	Cricothyrotomy is a very invasive technique to secure the airway in an emergency but is irreplacable when less invasive techniques fail or cannot be instigated under the prevailing circumstances. Various techniques have been reported which can be subdivided into anatomical-surgical preparation or puncture techniques. The preferred strategy is mostly oriented towards the departmental standard procedure which will be decided by the clinical situation. Training for each procedure can be carried out in intensive care departments, and using autopsy material or a manekin. Various methods of cricothyrotomy will be discussed here, and additionally an anatomical preparation and two puncture techniques will be demonstrated in detail.
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra-abdominal adhesions and wound healing.	Abdominal surgery can lead to intra-abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality. To prevent adhesions, an experimental study was planned to designate the effects of low molecular weight (LMW) heparins and hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy both on the formation of adhesions and wound healing.
Surgical treatment of early-stage vulva carcinoma and the complications of the operation]	The treatment of patients with early-stage squamous-cell carcinoma of the vulva (with a depth of invasion > 1 mm), i.e. stage T1 with a tumour diameter < or = 2 cm or T2 with a diameter > 2 cm without suspect groin nodes on palpation, has become less radical; in this way, the complications can be reduced without compromising the generally favourable prognosis. Wide local excision with tumour-free margins of 2 cm appears to be a safe option for the local treatment. Uni- or bilateral inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy with separate incisions is currently part of the standard treatment. The complications associated with this standard surgical treatment remain significant: there are frequent disorders of wound healing, wound infections, lymphoceles, lymphoedema and effects on psychosexual behaviour. The minimal invasive sentinel lymph-node procedure is a promising technique in patients with early-stage squamous-cell carcinoma of the vulva, but the safety of the procedure must still be proven.
The role of stress hormones in perioperative myocardial ischemia.	In this chapter I have tried to illustrate how trauma-induced changes in plasma catecholamines and other stress hormones can result in physiological alterations that may in turn increase the likelihood of developing myocardial ischemia. Data have been presented about potential mechanisms by which these hormones can lead to the development of ischemia, although additional work is required in this area. Among the strategies for modulating the stress response to surgery, the use of axial narcotics and perioperative administration of alpha 2-agonists can be easily instituted in most institutions. Additional studies are needed to determine whether these techniques reduce the incidence of perioperative ischemic complications. Because these interventions are labor intensive and therefore costly, further work is required to identify which subsets of patients may benefit from such aggressive management.
Analysis of lawsuits against general surgeons in Connecticut during the years 1985 to 1990.	This study examines 42 lawsuits brought against general surgeons in Connecticut to discern which complications most often result in litigation, and what other activity prompts litigation. Analysis reveals that most cases involve injury to surrounding tissues: nerves, blood vessels, or adjacent organs. Retained foreign bodies occurred in four cases. The remaining complications concern singular complaints or iatrogenic injuries such as a Bovie burn, incorrect incisions, biopsy of incorrect tissue, etc. In addition to acute complications, four cases alleged failure to diagnose cancer and four cases alleged failure to provide informed consent. In five cases, the patient died, allegedly from the incident at issue in the suit. The study concludes that most surgical injuries are identifiable and preventible, and that many suits could be avoided.
Percutaneous injuries during surgical procedures.	To study the numbers and circumstances of percutaneous injuries (eg, needle sticks, cuts) that occur during surgical procedures. Surgical personnel risk infection with blood-borne pathogens from percutaneous injuries; some injuries might also place patients at risk by exposing them to a health care worker's blood.
Preoperative cardiovascular evaluation for noncardiac surgery.	Cardiovascular complications following noncardiac surgery constitute an enormous burden of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Annually, more than one million operations are complicated by adverse cardiovascular events, such as perioperative myocardial infarction or death from cardiac causes. In order to combat this problem, cardiac evaluation prior to noncardiac surgery should ask two questions about the patient: What is the risk of cardiac complications during and after surgery? How can that risk be reduced or eliminated? Risk assessment evaluates patients' co-morbidities and exercise tolerance, as well as the type of surgery to be performed, to determine the overall risk of perioperative cardiac complications. Previous or current cardiac disease, diabetes and renal insufficiency all confer higher risks for perioperative cardiac complications. Poor exercise tolerance and high-risk surgical procedures (e.g., vascular, prolonged thoracic or abdominal operations) also predict worse perioperative outcomes. Noninvasive stress testing is widely used to help predict risk of perioperative complications, but the poor predictive power of these tests hampers their usefulness. After estimating the risk of cardiac complications, one should take measures to reduce it. Beta blockade has shown clear benefits in risk reduction. At this time, there are no data suggesting benefits of percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting in reducing noncardiac surgical risk. In addition, angioplasty with stenting and its attendant need for anticoagulation can expose patients to increased risk of perioperative bleeding. Thus, the use of coronary revascularization prior to noncardiac surgery should be reserved for those patients with an independent cardiac need for the procedure, such as unstable angina or stable angina refractory to medical therapy. In summary, patients with low clinical risk factors and good functional status, undergoing a low or intermediate risk surgery, have an excellent prognosis and may proceed to surgery without further delay. In addition, stable patients who have previously undergone coronary revascularization may also safely undergo surgery. Patients requiring urgent surgery should proceed immediately, since the consequences of delay usually outweigh the benefits of preoperative risk assessment. However, elective surgery should be indefinitely deferred for those patients with unstable coronary syndromes, since consequences of the cardiac disease usually negate the benefits of surgery. Controversy involves the intermediate or high clinical risk patient considering high-risk, but elective, surgery. Noninvasive testing offers only limited assistance in estimating risk for these patients. The best risk reduction strategy for these patients is perioperative beta blockade use. The role of coronary revascularization specifically to reduce perioperative cardiac complications remains unproven.
A comparative study of radical vulvectomy and modified radical vulvectomy for the treatment of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.	Forty-five patients who underwent a modified radical vulvectomy for invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were compared with forty-five patients who underwent radical vulvectomy for similar lesions. Vulvar wound infection and breakdown were infrequent in both groups. Anal incontinence developed postoperatively in five of the modified radical vulvectomy patients and in none of the radical vulvectomy patients. Urinary incontinence developed postoperatively in two of the modified radical vulvectomy patients and in seven of the radical vulvectomy patients. Possible reasons for these differences are discussed. One invasive local recurrence (2.2%) developed in the modified radical vulvectomy group and two (4.4%) local recurrences developed in the radical vulvectomy group. A modified radical vulvectomy appears to be efficacious for the vulvar phase of treatment of localized invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.
The safety and efficacy of the administration of recombinant activated factor VII in major surgery and trauma patients.	Recombinant activated Factor VII (rFVIIa) has been successfully used in the treatment of haemophilia A and B with associated inhibitors for some years. Activated Factor VII binds to activated platelets independently of tissue factor. The resulting stimulation of an exaggerated early thrombin burst at sites of vascular injury makes it an attractive potential treatment for massive, uncontrolled bleeding associated with surgery and trauma. This article describes the evidence relating to surgery and trauma. The lack of large, controlled trials of rFVIIa means that a definitive recommendation regarding its use cannot be made at present. However, in the context of clearly defined protocols and balanced treatment strategies, rFVIIa may have a role in traumatic bleeding. Large scale, randomised controlled trials in trauma are required, as is further work on the safety profile of rFVIIa with an independent international safety monitoring committee.
Preoperative coronary artery disease risk stratification based on dipyridamole imaging and a simple three-step, three-segment model for patients undergoing noncardiac vascular surgery or major general surgery.	A 3-step, 3-segment scintigraphic model was developed to improve the accuracy of dipyridamole-thallium imaging for preoperative cardiac risk assessment and to simplify the prognostic interpretation of the images. The model was developed in a pilot study of 60 patients and validated in a group of 355 patients referred for vascular and major general surgery. Study end points included myocardial infarction and cardiac death. Step 1: The postoperative cardiac event rate was 1.3% in 225 patients with normal anterior, inferio- and posterolateral segment perfusion and without transient left ventricular dipyridamole-induced cavitary dilation. Step 2: The physiologic rationale for step 2 consists of identifying patients who are most likely to have left main, 3-vessel or high-risk 2-vessel coronary artery disease or a significant amount of jeopardized myocardium in the territory of a critical coronary stenosis. Of 29 patients with either reversible defects of all 3 segments, transient cavitary dilation, or at least 1 severe grade 3/3 reversible defect, 52% (15 of 29) sustained a postoperative cardiac event. Step 3: The remaining 101 patients were stratified according to age greater than 70 years (p = 0.01), presence of diabetes (p = 0.0004) and the number of segments displaying reversible defects (1 or 2) with cardiac event rates ranging from 5 to 36%. The 3-step, 3-segment model is a useful alternative to the conventional interpretation of dipyridamole myocardial perfusion images for the purpose of quick and efficient preoperative risk stratification based on the rationale of correlating surgical risk with the amount of potentially ischemic myocardium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reactive fibromyalgia syndrome.	To determine the frequency of a precipitating event occurring prior to the onset of fibromyalgia syndrome, in a consecutive series of patients. Outcome in patients in whom there was a causative factor was compared with that in patients with primary fibromyalgia.
Hepatic resections for colorectal metastases in The Netherlands. A multiinstitutional 10-year study.	The records of 118 patients who had hepatic resections for colorectal liver metastases were analyzed retrospectively.
Surgical stress stimulates release of polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase from a segmented neutrophil]	The studies were performed to find out whether increased serum levels of polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase (PMNE) depend on increase of segmented neutrophils or increase of PMNE release from a segmented neutrophil on 17 patients for various elective surgeries. Serum levels of PMNE, leukocyte count and leukogram were determined before incision (preoperation), as well as on the 1st, 3rd and 5th day after operation. Serum levels of PMNE, segmented cell count, stab cell count, stab cell-segmented cell ratio increased most on the 1st postoperative day and decreased thereafter. Leukocyte count showed no significant changes. Serum levels of PMNE correlated well with PMNE released from a segmented neutrophil, but not with leukocyte count or segmented cell count. It was concluded that increased serum levels of PMNE by surgical stress depend on the increased PMNE release from a segmented neutrophil but not on the increased segmented cell count.
Surgical innovations: impact on the quality of life of the older patient.	As surgery has been extended into the elderly population, health-related quality of life (HRQOL) has been appropriately added as a parameter to evaluate surgical success. Surgery remains of significant risk in older patients, and an estimate of the type of outcome, including morbidity, mortality, and HRQOL can aid in that decision. New techniques, such as laparoscopic or minimally invasive surgery show great promise for reduction in perioperative stress and improved HRQOL in younger patients, but have not been extensively used in the older and frail patients for whom the benefits potentially may be greater.
Are physicians and their relatives at risk of postoperative complications when they are scheduled for surgery? Case control study from a prospective survey of 11,756 patients]	Are physicians and their relatives at risk of postoperative complications when they are scheduled for surgery? With the aim to answer this question, a case control study was performed from a cohort of 11,756 patients scheduled for surgery from 01/01/1987 to 12/31/2002. Fourty seven patients were physicians and 122 were a close relative to a physician. The percentage of physicians in the current series is comparable to that in the general urban population in France. Each of these patients was matched with 5 patients as controls regarding sex, age, diagnosis, procedure, and date of surgery.
Supraventricular arrhythmias in intensive care unit patients: short and long-term consequences.	Supraventricular arrhythmias (SVA), including atrial fibrillation and flutter, are common in surgical and nonsurgical intensive care unit (ICU) patients. There is increased mortality among surgical ICU patients who develop new-onset atrial arrhythmias after noncardiac, non-thoracic surgery. We sought to determine the preadmission and intra-ICU factors associated with the development of new-onset SVA and mortality in these patients.
The American College of Surgeons' closed claims study: new insights for improving care.	All physicians must be vigilant in the pursuit of safe care for patients. While problems in care are identified, education that provides an understanding of these problems and guidelines for improvement can enhance patient safety. Our objective was to determine problematic aspects of surgical care, including care provided by surgeons before, during, after, and instead of surgery, that negatively affect patient safety.
MAPkinase gene expression, as determined by microarray analysis, distinguishes uncomplicated from complicated reconstitution after major surgical trauma.	Microarray expression analysis was performed in patients with major surgical trauma to identify signaling pathways which may be indicative for complicated versus uneventful reconstitution post trauma. In addition to a generalized upregulation of nonspecific stress response genes in all patients, a remarkable number of differences in gene expression patterns were found in individual patients. Some of the differing genes were associated with uncomplicated convalescence such as upregulation of both the ERK5 pathway (MAPK7 [mitogen-activated protein kinase-7]) and transcription factors which stimulate hematopoiesis and tissue reconstitution (MEF2, BMP-2, TNFRSF11A [RANK], and RUNX-1). Chemokine genes active in stem cell recruitment from the bone marrow as well as dendritic cell and natural killer (NK) cell maturation (SCYA14 [HCC-1]), and activators of the lymphoid compartment (TNFRSF7 [CD27], CD3zeta and perforin [PRF1]) were increased. In contrast, all these transcripts were downregulated in complicated reconstitution and later development of septic shock. Moreover, p38 kinase (MAPK14), S100 molecules, and members of the lipoxygenase pathway were associated with a more eventful outcome. Microarray expression studies are a promising tool for screening and then selecting differentially regulated genes in favorable as compared to complicated reconstitution post trauma.
Control limits for p control charts with small subgroup sizes.	The p chart is widely used in health care and other service organizations as well as in manufacturing to monitor the proportion of observations with some particular characteristic for comparing several sources of data or for tracking a single source of data over time. The conventional approach is to use 3sigma limits found by using the normal approximation to the binomial distribution. This article reviews a method for taking into account the fact that 3sigma limits are not always appropriate, and suggests the use of the exact binomial distribution instead of the normal approximation to eliminate the problems associated with small subgroups. An example with only 4 small subgroups shows that the use of probability control limits and of modified control limits avoids the above problems.
Evaluating and minimizing cardiac risk in surgical patients.	Cardiovascular complications are a major cause of postoperative morbidity and mortality. Proper assessment of risk and subsequent interventions can help diminish these complications. Assessing the patient's risk is based on the type of surgery performed and on individual patient characteristics. The latter can be established with a thorough history and physical, laboratory testing, risk indices, and cardiology studies.
Temporal bone resection.	It must be emphasized that the greatest impact of survival can only be obtained through an early diagnosis and a radical treatment program. Any granulation tissue must be sent for biopsy to rule out the possibility of malignancy in the setting of chronic otitis media. Once carcinoma is diagnosed, imaging studies must be obtained to define the extent of the tumor. Under diagnosis is the rule with these malignancies. Tumors limited to the external auditory canal can be adequately resected with a lateral temporal bone resection. Extension into the middle ear and mastoid aircell systems requires either a subtotal temporal bone resection or a lateral temporal bone resection with a radical mastoidectomy and petrousectomy. The inclusion of the petrous apex with the resection, as in a temporal bone resection, does not add to survival but increases morbidity. Radical postoperative radiation therapy is essential for maximum local control and survival with these malignancies.
Melatonin against surgical stress]	Surgery is associated with oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is correlated with postoperative myocardial ischaemia. It has been shown that the endogenous hormone melatonin has antioxidant effects. A potential benefit of melatonin has been proven in experimental studies as well as in neonates. Melatonin has not been used in adult patients with acute oxidative stress. A potential beneficial effect of melatonin in patients after surgery is possible and should be investigated in the future.
APACHE II scoring for the prediction of immediate surgical complications in head and neck cancer patients.	Aggressive surgical treatment of oral and oropharyngeal cancers may be compromised by significant surgical complications. Early identification of patients at risk for postoperative complications may assist in clinical decision-making. The objective of this study was to assess the value of the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) score in predicting early postoperative surgical complications.
Extended resection in the treatment of colorectal cancer.	Between 1975 and 1990, 525 patients underwent resection of colorectal cancer in our unit. Of these, 38 had tumour invading adjacent structures and underwent an extended resection. Overall, there were 67 cases treated palliatively. Of these, three were in the group of 38 having an extended resection. When the groups of radical not extended (n = 423) and radical extended resections (n = 35) were compared, respective values for mortality (1.9% vs 0) and morbidity (12.8% vs 11.3%) were not different. Respective local recurrence rates (13% vs 26%) were significantly greater after extended resection. Five-year survival after extended resection was 30%, no different from the general survival rate for standard resections for T2-3 node-positive tumours. Extended resection is thus a safe and important approach for locally advanced tumours.
Operating room nursing and lung cancer risk in a cohort of female registered nurses.	Smoke generated during laser surgery and electrocautery contains respiratory irritants and human carcinogens. Although laboratory and animal studies have demonstrated that this smoke has inflammatory and mutagenic potential, no population-based studies of the health effects of exposure to surgical smoke have been published. We examined the association between duration of employment as an operating room nurse, a proxy measure for surgical smoke exposure, and subsequent lung cancer risk.
Antimicrobial prophylaxis in general surgery.	When used appropriately, antimicrobial prophylaxis is highly beneficial and cost effective. Antibiotics are not indicated for "clean procedures" such as hernia and breast surgery. A single preoperative dose will suffice, followed by an intraoperative dose if the operation takes more than 3 hours. For vascular (prosthesis or groin wound), head and neck (pharynx entered), thoracic (gastrointestinal or respiratory entrance) and high-risk gastroduodenal and biliary procedures, cefazolin, 1 g intravenously, is indicated. For procedures involving small intestine, appendix or penetrating abdominal trauma, cefoxitin or cefotetan, 2 g intravenously, is indicated. For colorectal procedures, either oral neomycin plus erythromycin or intravenous aminoglycoside plus clindamycin (or metronidazole) are effective. If valvular heart disease is present, endocarditis prophylaxis should be administered.
The surgical stress response: should it be prevented?	Postoperative complications such as myocardial infarction, pulmonary infection, thromboembolism and fatigue are probably related to increased demands, hypermetabolism, catabolism and other physiologic changes included in the global "surgical stress response." Strategies have been developed to suppress the detrimental components of the stress response so as to improve postoperative outcome. Of the various techniques to reduce the surgical stress response, afferent neural blockade with regional anesthesia to relieve pain is the most effective, although not optimal. Data from numerous controlled clinical trials have demonstrated a reduction in various aspects of postoperative morbidity by such a nociceptive blockade. Although a causal relationship has still to be demonstrated, these findings strongly argue the concept of "stress-free anesthesia and surgery" as an important instrument in improving surgical outcome.
Controlled hypotension: a guide to drug choice.	For half a century, controlled hypotension has been used to reduce bleeding and the need for blood transfusions, and provide a satisfactory bloodless surgical field. It has been indicated in oromaxillofacial surgery (mandibular osteotomy, facial repair), endoscopic sinus or middle ear microsurgery, spinal surgery and other neurosurgery (aneurysm), major orthopaedic surgery (hip or knee replacement, spinal), prostatectomy, cardiovascular surgery and liver transplant surgery. Controlled hypotension is defined as a reduction of the systolic blood pressure to 80-90 mm Hg, a reduction of mean arterial pressure (MAP) to 50-65 mm Hg or a 30% reduction of baseline MAP. Pharmacological agents used for controlled hypotension include those agents that can be used successfully alone and those that are used adjunctively to limit dosage requirements and, therefore, the adverse effects of the other agents. Agents used successfully alone include inhalation anaesthetics, sodium nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, trimethaphan camsilate, alprostadil (prostaglandin E1), adenosine, remifentanil, and agents used in spinal anaesthesia. Agents that can be used alone or in combination include calcium channel antagonists (e.g. nicardipine), beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (beta-blockers) [e.g. propranolol, esmolol] and fenoldopam. Agents that are mainly used adjunctively include ACE inhibitors and clonidine. New agents and techniques have been recently evaluated for their ability to induce effective hypotension without impairing the perfusion of vital organs. This development has been aided by new knowledge on the physiology of peripheral microcirculatory regulation. Apart from the adverse effects of major hypotension on the perfusion of vital organs, potent hypotensive agents have their own adverse effects depending on their concentration, which can be reduced by adjuvant treatment. Care with use limits the major risks of these agents in controlled hypotension; risks that are generally less important than those of transfusion or alternatives to transfusion. New hypotensive drugs, such as fenoldopam, adenosine and alprostadil, are currently being evaluated; however, they have disadvantages and a high treatment cost that limits their development in this indication. New techniques of controlled hypotension subscribe to the use of the natural hypotensive effect of the anaesthetic drug with regard to the definition of the ideal hypotensive agent. It must be easy to administer, have a short onset time, an effect that disappears quickly when administration is discontinued, a rapid elimination without toxic metabolites, negligible effects on vital organs, and a predictable and dose-dependent effect. Inhalation agents (isoflurane, sevoflurane) provide the benefit of being hypnotic and hypotensive agents at clinical concentrations, and are used alone or in combination with adjuvant agents to limit tachycardia and rebound hypertension, for example, inhibitors of the autonomic nervous system (clonidine, beta-blockers) or ACE inhibitors. When they are used alone, inhalation anaesthetics require high concentrations for a significant reduction in bleeding that can lead to hepatic or renal injury. The greatest efficacy and ease-of-use to toxicity ratio is for techniques of anaesthesia that associate analgesia and hypotension at clinical concentrations without the need for potent hypotensive agents. The first and oldest technique is epidural anaesthesia, but depending on the surgery, it is not always appropriate. The most recent satisfactory technique is a combination treatment of remifentanil with either propofol or an inhalation agent (isoflurane, desflurane or sevoflurane) at clinical concentrations. In light of the current literature, and because of their safety and ease of use, these two techniques are preferred.
Patient's reaction to surgical trauma in surgical treatment of duodenal ulcer]	Evaluation of metabolism and state of central hemodynamics in 134 patients with duodenal ulcer before the operation and at the early postoperative period was carried out. It was established that pronouncement of postaggressive response of an organism to trauma in surgical treatment of a duodenal ulcer didn't depend on a type of the operation due to use of the modern methods of anesthesia. Therefore, moderate pronouncement of such a response after the organ-preserving operations can't be a criterium for the wide use of surgical treatment of an uncomplicated duodenal ulcer.
Prophylaxis of intestinal paresis after colon surgery]	In the clinic, a method for prophylaxis of postoperative intestinal paresis with the use of local consecutive electroimpulse influencing upon the zones--pacemakers of the small and large intestine by a current with a frequency corresponding to the physiologic frequency of contractions of a given intestinal segment at the time corresponding to the physiologic one in restoration of motor activity of the intestine have been developed. Electric stimulation of a pacemaker contributes to organization and synchronization of activity of the neural ganglia and amplification of their myoelectrical signal. As a result, the activity of proximal pacemakers predominates over that of the distal ones and contributes to restoration of a gradient of propulsive activity. The method was employed in 53 patients. The time of restoration of peristaltic and propulsive functions of the intestine corresponded to the physiologically substantiated time.
Incisional hernias: factors influencing development.	We have presented a study of 125 patients treated for incisional hernia. This complication occurred more frequently in women (81%), and gynecologic and obstetric procedures were responsible for 58%. The method of surgical repair in all cases was peritoneal-aponeurotic transposition. The 5-year recurrence rate was less than 3%.
Preveation of postoperative venous thromboembolic complications: pharmacoeconomic analysis]	This paper describes the results of a prospective clinicoeconomic <<cost - effectiveness>> study at prevention of postoperative venous thromboembolic complications (VTEC) in general surgery and gynecology patients. The patients were distributed into two groups: the basic and control. The basic group were provided pharmacoprophylaxis using fraxiparin. The control group did not receive preventive treatment. The authors examined the effectiveness of VTEC prevention applying duplex scanning of the inferior vena cava and explored the hemostatic system. It has been established that the mean treatment cost accounts for 61186 roubles per patient in terms of the prices recorded in 2005. The main expenses is the cost of the bed day (60% of direct expenses) and of the treatment complications (24%). The main conclusion of the study is that the early anticoagulant prophylaxis provided to patients at moderate and high risk allows minimization of the incidence of thrombotic complications. Besides, it is economically advisable.
Treatment of osteoarticular infections with clindamycin in adults]	The main characteristics of clindamycin are adequate for treatment of osteoarticular infections (OAI): good bone diffusion, broad spectrum of antibacterial activity and oral use.
Interventions for protecting renal function in the perioperative period.	A number of methods have been used to try to protect kidney function in patients undergoing surgery. These include the administration of dopamine and its analogues, diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and hydration fluids.
Fast track surgery]	Fast track (FT) surgery is a multimodal concept aiming to reduce postoperative pain and stress-induced organ dysfunction. Key elements are perioperative fluid restriction, epidural analgesia, early oral nutrition and early mobilization. Therefore, multidisciplinary teamwork is required in order to obtain the optimal outcome of reduced postoperative complications and a hospital stay of only three or four days after open colectomy. Most of the patients undergoing colorectal surgery qualify for FT surgery. Meanwhile, FT principles are applied in a variety of open and laparoscopic procedures. The aim of this review is to highlight the principles of FT and to answer the question why FT surgery should nowadays be considered as standard care.
Predictive factors for surgical site infection in general surgery.	Global parameters, such as wound class, the American Society of Anesthesiologists' physical classification score, and prolonged operative time, have been associated with the risk of surgical site infection (SSI). We hypothesized that additional risk factors for SSI would be identified by controlling for these parameters and that deep and organ/space SSI may have different risk factors for occurrence.
Human error, not communication and systems, underlies surgical complications.	This study prospectively assesses the underlying errors contributing to surgical complications over a 12-month period in a complex academic department of surgery using a validated scoring template.
Venous thromboembolism in elective operations: balancing the choices.	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a recognized cause of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients and is reported to account for 250,000 deaths annually. Recent shifts in prophylaxis administration are occurring among surgical specialty groups after observing a lower rate of VTE among patients undergoing elective operation. We report the incidence of VTE from 3 sources to provide an estimate of the true risk of the complication in elective surgery.
Posterior semicircular canal occlusion in the normal hearing ear.	This report outlines our experience with posterior semicircular canal occlusion, a new operative procedure for intractable benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). We postulate that the resulting solid canal "plug" prevents endolymph movement within the posterior canal, which effectively fixes the cupula. This selectively abolishes the receptivity of the posterior canal to both angular acceleration and gravity without influencing the other inner ear receptors. We previously reported the success of this procedure in two patients with BPPV and a co-existing profound sensorineural hearing loss in the affected ear. Since that report, a slightly modified technique has been used to occlude six more posterior canals--five in normal hearing ears. While our follow-up times range from only 3 to 18 months, all eight patients continue to be relieved of their BPPV. Temporary mixed hearing losses occurred in three of the five ears with normal preoperative hearing. Hearing in all five patients ultimately returned to the preoperative state. We believe this procedure is a simpler and safer alternative to singular neurectomy for the treatment of intractable benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.
Open preperitoneal mesh repair of recurrent inguinal hernia.	To determine the outcome of open preperitoneal mesh repair of recurrent inguinal hernia.
Retrorectus polyester mesh repair for midline ventral hernias.	To evaluate the effectiveness of the retrorectus mesh repair for midline ventral hernias.
Patients requiring interruption of long-term oral anticoagulant therapy: the use of fixed sub-therapeutic doses of low-molecular-weight heparin.	We tested the efficacy and safety of fixed doses of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) in patients requiring interruption of vitamin-K antagonist (VKA) because of invasive procedures.
Probability of rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm after an unrelated operative procedure: a prospective study.	It has been assumed by some authors that patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms may be at increased risk of rupture after unrelated operations. From July 1986 to December 1989, 33 patients (29 men, 4 women) with a known abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent 45 operations. Twenty-eight patients had an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, and five patients had a thoracoabdominal aneurysm. The abdominal aortic aneurysm ranged in transverse diameter from 3.0 to 8.5 cm (average 5.6 cm). Twenty-seven patients underwent a single operation, and six patients had two or more (range of 1 to 6). Operations performed were abdominal (13); cardiothoracic (9); head/neck (2); other vascular (11); urologic (7); amputation (2); breast (1). General anesthesia was used in 29 procedures, spinal/epidural in 6, and regional/local in 10. One postoperative death occurred from cardiopulmonary failure. One patient died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm at 20 days after coronary artery bypass (1/33 patients [3%]; 1/45 operations [2%]). Fourteen patients had repair of their abdominal aortic aneurysm at a later date, an average of 18 weeks after operation. Four patients had abdominal aortic aneurysm considered too small to warrant resection (average 3.6 cm). Four patients were considered at excessive risk for elective repair. The five thoracoabdominal aneurysm were not repaired. Four patients are awaiting repair. During this same 40-month period, two other patients, not known to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm after another operative procedure, at 21 days and 77 days. All three ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms were 5.0 cm or greater in transverse diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Topical silicone gel for the prevention and treatment of hypertrophic scar.	We studied the effects of a silicone gel bandage that was worn for at least 12 hours daily on the resolution of hypertrophic burn scar. In a second cohort, the prevention of hypertrophic scar formation in fresh surgical incisions by this bandage was also evaluated. In 19 patients with hypertrophic burn scars, elasticity of the scars was quantitated serially with the use of an elastometer. An adjacent or mirror-image hypertrophic burn scar served as a control. Scar elasticity was increased after both 1 and 2 months compared with that in controls. There was corresponding improvement clinically that persisted for at least 6 months. In the other cohort, scar volume changes in 21 surgical incisions were measured before and after 1 and 2 months. Gel-treated incisions gained less volume than control incisions after both intervals. Clinical assessment corroborated this quantitative demonstration of a decrement in scar volume. We concluded that topical silicone gel is efficacious, both in the prevention and in the treatment of hypertrophic scar.
Strangulated appendix after transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) inguinal hernia repair.	Laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair can be performed totally extraperitoneal or transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP). Both repairs are associated with mesh-related complications. This is the first report of a mesh-strangulated appendix, with subsequent necrosis and perforation, after TAPP inguinal hernia repair.
Crescentic resection for the treatment of pellucid corneal marginal degeneration.	The left eye of a patient with bilateral pellucid marginal corneal degeneration was treated by crescentic resection of the affected part. The treatment, while it has not been monitored over the long term, appears to have many advantages over penetrating keratoplasty.
Perioperative stroke. Part I: General surgery, carotid artery disease, and carotid endarterectomy.	Although stroke, defined as a focal neurological deficit lasting more than 24 hr, is uncommon in the perioperative period, its associated mortality and long-term disability are high. No large-scale data are available to identify the importance of recognized risk factors for stroke in the perioperative period. A review of the literature shows that the incidence and mechanism of its occurrence are influenced by the presence of cardiovascular disease and the type of surgery. The most common cause of perioperative stroke is embolism. In non-cardiac surgery, the incidence of perioperative stroke is higher among the elderly. Properly administered, controlled hypotension is associated with minimal risk of stroke. Cerebral vasospasm may be the cause of focal cerebral ischaemia in eclamptic patients, and the aggressive treatment of hypertension may exacerbate the neurological damage. The risk of stroke associated with carotid endarterectomy is closely related to the preoperative neurological presentation, and the experience of the surgical/anaesthetic team. Symptomatic cerebrovascular disease, acute stroke, asymptomatic carotid lesions, preoperative assessment of risk, local and general anaesthesia, cerebral protection and monitoring during carotid endarterectomy are discussed with reference to reducing the risk of perioperative stroke. Adequate monitoring and protection have minimized the risk of ischaemia from carotid clamping, and the major mechanism of stroke is embolization.
Thrombocytosis in adults: analysis of 777 patients.	A total of 777 patients with thrombocytosis, defined as a platelet count of greater than 500 x 10(9)l-1, seen in a University hospital over a 1-year period, were studied prospectively for aetiology. The most frequent causes of thrombocytosis were infection (21.9%), rebound thrombocytosis (19.4%), tissue damage (17.9%), chronic inflammatory disorders (13.1%) and malignancy (5.9%). Thrombocytosis associated with multiple causative factors, occurring simultaneously, was seen in 6.1% of cases. Thrombocytosis of greater than or equal to 1 million x 10(9)l-1 was found most frequently in patients with multiple aetiological factors occurring at the same time, in myeloproliferative disorders, or in postsplenectomy patients.
Review article: improving outcome after major surgery: pathophysiological considerations.	Surgical and anesthesia-related techniques may reduce physical stress for patients undergoing high-risk surgery, but major surgery is increasingly performed in patients with substantial comorbidities. Strategies for improving the outcome for such patients include approaches that both increase tissue oxygen delivery and reduce metabolic demand. However, these strategies have produced conflicting results. To understand the success and failure of attempts to improve postoperative outcome, the pathophysiology of perioperative hemodynamic, metabolic, and immunological alterations should be analyzed. Our aim in this review is to provide a survey of fields of opportunities for improving outcome after major surgery. The issues are approached from 3 different angles: the view of the patient, the view of the surgical intervention, and the view of the anesthesia. Special attention is also given to what could be considered the result of the interaction among the 3: perioperative inflammation and immune response.
New clinical guide to surgical fire prevention. Patients can catch fire--here's how to keep them safer.	Surgical fires, though rare, can have devastating consequences for patients, staff, and the healthcare facility as a whole. it's important to know how such fires can be prevented--and how to handle them if they occur. This article includes new clinical practice recommendations for oxygen delivery that are designed to reduce the likelihood of fires.
Canine distal hindlimb soft tissue sarcoma--a novel approach to surgical defect closure.	A 10-year-old, male, neutered whippet was presented with a soft tissue mass located on the medial aspect of the distal right tibia. The mass was 4 cm in diameter and of two months duration. Recent biopsy by the referring veterinarian, prompted by noticeable enlargement, identified the mass as a soft tissue sarcoma. Staging assessments did not reveal any evidence of metastases. Marginal excision was performed. The resultant defect was closed primarily by the creation of a bipedicle flap on the distal caudo-lateral aspect of the crus to enclose the Achilles tendon separately, leaving a defect between the Achilles tendon and the tibia. Postoperative management entailed support dressings and exercise restriction. Complete wound healing was attained three weeks postoperatively with excellent return of function. No recurrence was noted at eight months post-resection.
Is plasma arginine concentration decreased in patients with sepsis? A systematic review and meta-analysis.	L-arginine is a conditionally essential amino acid that plays an important role in immune and vascular function in sepsis. Plasma concentrations of L-arginine are decreased after trauma or surgery but have been variably reported to be normal or decreased in patients with sepsis.
Clinical benefits of scarless endoscopic thyroidectomy: an expert's experience.	By comparison with the conventional surgical approach to thyroidectomy, scarless (in the neck) endoscopic thyroidectomy (SET) has a superior cosmetic result but a very long learning curve. The objective of the present study was to compare surgical outcomes of SET performed by an experienced surgeon with the outcomes of conventional thyroidectomy.
A critical evaluation of the impact of Leapfrog's evidence-based hospital referral.	Evidence-based hospital referral (EBHR) is a Leapfrog group quality metric based primarily on hospital procedural volume. It has yet to be determined if EBHR has led to regionalized surgical care and whether it has improved patient outcomes.
In vitro study of variables relevant to perioperative care of the surgical patient: glucose, osmolarity, and rewarming.	We sought to determine the effects of altering osmolarity and the reversibility of the detrimental immunologic effects of hypothermia on human monocyte HLA-DR surface expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation.
Decreasing pressure ulcer risk during hospital procedures: a rapid process improvement workshop.	A 300-bed acute care community hospital used a 2-day "Rapid Process Improvement Workshop" to identify factors contributing to facility-acquired pressure ulcers (PU). The Rapid Process Improvement Workshop included key stakeholders from all procedural areas providing inpatient services and used standard components of rapid process improvement: data analysis, process flow charting, factor identification, and action plan development.On day 1, the discovery process revealed increased PU risk related to prolonged immobility when transporting patients for procedures, during imaging studies, and during the perioperative period. On day 2, action plans were developed that included communication of PU risk or presence of an ulcer,measures to shorten procedure times when clinically appropriate, implementation of prevention techniques during procedures, and recommendations for mattress upgrades. In addition, educational programs about PU prevention were developed, schedules for presentations were established, and an online power point presentation was completed and placed in a learning management system module. Finally, our nursing department amended a hospital wide handoff communication tool to include skin status and PU risk level. This tool is used in all patient handoff situations, including nonnursing departments such as radiology. Patients deemed at risk for ulcers were provided "Braden Risk" armbands to enhance interdepartmental awareness.
Perioperative myocardial ischemia and isolated systolic hypertension in non-cardiac surgery.	To determine whether patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) undergoing non-cardiac surgery have a higher incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia than normotensive patients and hence a greater risk for perioperative adverse events.
Intraoperative technique as a factor in the prevention of surgical site infection.	Approximately five percent of patients who undergo surgery develop surgical site infections (SSIs) which are associated with an extra seven days as an inpatient and with increased postoperative mortality. The competence and technique of the surgeon is considered important in preventing SSI. We have reviewed the evidence on different aspects of surgical technique and its role in preventing SSI. The most recent guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the UK recommend avoiding diathermy for skin incision even though this reduces incision time and blood loss, both associated with lower infection rates. Studies comparing different closure techniques, i.e. continuous versus interrupted sutures, have not found a statistically significant difference in the SSI rate, but using continuous sutures is quicker. For contaminated wounds, the surgical site should be left open for four days to allow for treatment of local infection before subsequent healing by primary intention. Surgical drains should be placed through separate incisions, closed suction drains are preferable to open drains, and all drains should be removed as soon as possible. There are relatively few large studies on the impact of surgical techniques on SSI rates. Larger multicentre prospective studies are required to define what aspects of surgical technique impact on SSI, to better inform surgical practice and support education programmes for surgical trainees.
Academic performance in adolescence after inguinal hernia repair in infancy: a nationwide cohort study.	Although animal studies have indicated that general anesthetics may result in widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration and neurocognitive impairment in the developing brain, results from human studies are scarce. We investigated the association between exposure to surgery and anesthesia for inguinal hernia repair in infancy and subsequent academic performance.
Brief report: preoperative frailty in older surgical patients is associated with early postoperative delirium.	We investigated whether preoperative frailty among older noncardiac surgical patients provides information about the development of postoperative delirium that is in addition to traditional geriatric risk factors. One-third of patients had a frailty score 3, which is considered "frail" in others' research. Twenty-five percent of patients developed postoperative delirium, which was measured using the confusion assessment method. Multivariable logistic regression showed that age, activities of daily living dependence, instrumental activities of daily living dependence, and cognitive functioning did not contribute significantly to the prediction of postoperative delirium. Only preoperative symptoms of depression (odds ratio=1.42; 95% confidence interval=1.06-1.91; P=0.018) and the frailty score (odds ratio=1.84; 95% confidence interval=1.07-3.1; P=0.028) were independently associated with the development of postoperative delirium.
Review articles: postoperative delirium: acute change with long-term implications.	Delirium is an acute change in cognition and attention, which may include alterations in consciousness and disorganized thinking. Although delirium may affect any age group, it is most common in older patients, especially those with preexisting cognitive impairment. Patients with delirium after surgery recover more slowly than those without delirium and, as a result, have increased length of stay and hospital costs. The measured incidence of postoperative delirium varies with the type of surgery, the urgency of surgery, and the type and sensitivity of the delirium assessment. Although generally considered a short-term condition, delirium can persist for months and is associated with poor cognitive and functional outcomes beyond the immediate postoperative period. In this article, we provide a guide to assess delirium risk preoperatively and to prevent, diagnose, and treat this common and morbid condition. Care improvements such as identifying delirium risk preoperatively; training surgeons, anesthesiologists, and nurses to screen for delirium; implementing delirium prevention programs; and developing standardized delirium treatment protocols may reduce the risk of delirium and its associated morbidity.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction is independent of type of surgery and anesthetic.	Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) has been documented after cardiac and noncardiac surgery. The type of surgery and anesthetic has been assumed to be associated with the incidence but there are few prospective data comparing the incidence after different procedures. In this study, we sought to determine the association of the type of surgical procedure and anesthesia on the incidence of POCD after procedures involving light sedation, general anesthesia for noncardiac surgery, and general anesthesia for cardiac surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass.
Long-term follow-up after meshectomy with acellular human dermis repair for postherniorrhaphy inguinodynia.	Direct inguinal hernia repair with acellular human dermis (AHD) may offer greater symptom improvement and lower risk of hernia recurrence than anatomical repair without mesh (AWM) after mesh removal (with or without neurectomy) for postherniorrhaphy inguinodynia.
Prevalence, risk factors and virological profile of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in pregnant women in India.	A large program was conducted by the Government of India to study the prevalence and profile of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and its risk factors in pregnant women attending a tertiary care hospital in India. From September 2004 to December 2008 consecutive pregnant women attending the antenatal clinic were screened and those found positive for HBsAg were enrolled. Healthy non-pregnant women of child-bearing age, who presented for blood donation during the same period, served as controls. Women with symptoms of liver disease or those aware of their HBsAg status were excluded. Of the 20,104 pregnant women screened, 224 (1.1%) and of the 658 controls, 8 (1.2%) were HBsAg positive (P=ns). Previous blood transfusions and surgery were significant risk factors for infection with HBV. Of the women who were HBsAg positive, the ALT levels were normal in 54% of the women and HBV DNA levels were above 2,000 IU/ml in 71% of women. The median HBV DNA levels were higher in women who were HBeAg positive compared to the HBeAg negative group. The most common HBV genotype was D (84%) followed by A+D and A (8% each). In conclusion, the prevalence of HBsAg positivity among asymptomatic pregnant women in North India is 1.1% with 71% having high HBV DNA levels. These women may have a high risk of transmitting infection to their newborns.
Ghrelin: new insight to mechanisms and treatment of postoperative gastric ileus.	Postoperative gastric ileus develops after abdominal surgery and if prolonged leads to longer hospitalization times. Besides discomfort for the patient such as abdominal bloating and pain, this condition is associated with a great increase in healthcare costs. In order to develop new and effective treatment strategies to alleviate the ileus, a good understanding of the pathophysiogical underlying mechanisms is necessary. Postoperative gastric ileus consists of two phases, a first neural/humoral phase and a second inflammatory phase. The present review will focus on the role of the orexigenic and prokinetic hormone ghrelin in the development of postoperative ileus. Although ghrelin and ghrelin mimetics have been used during the recent years in pre-clinical and a first clinical trial to alleviate symptoms of postoperative ileus, the regulation of this hormone under conditions of abdominal surgery has just recently begun to be explored. Growing evidence indicates that postoperative restoration of ghrelin signaling leads to an orexigenic effect whereas the gastroprokinetic actions seem to require supraphysiological doses. Since the expression of ghrelin-O-acyltransferase (GOAT), the only ghrelin acylating enzyme, is reduced after abdominal surgery, the stimulation of GOAT signaling may also be a new promising approach to restore levels of acyl ghrelin under these conditions and a potential useful addition to ghrelin mimetics.
Safety in the operating room: team approach saves lives.	Improvements in technology, classic peer review, and even relentless determination of the individual practitioner have proven insufficient to eliminate adverse events in surgical patients. Preventing avoidable harm must focus on changing the operating room culture from one of separate--and well-meaning individuals--to a cohesive approach by surgeons, anesthesiologists, nurses, and associated or health staff. Neily and colleagues report the results of a comprehensive team training program implemented across 74 Veterans Health or facilities, which was associated with an 18% reduction in annual mortality (rate ratio = 0.82; P = 0.01).
Perioperative visual loss after nonocular surgery]	Perioperative visual loss (POVL) after nonocular surgery is a rare but unexpected event and represents a devastating complication. It is most often associated with cardiac, spinal as well as head and neck surgery. The etiology of POVL remains incompletely understood. Any portion of the visual system may be involved, from the cornea to the occipital lobe. The most common site of permanent injury is, however, the optic nerve itself and ischemia is the most often presumed mechanism. Multiple factors have been proposed as risk factors for POVL, including long duration in the prone position, decreased ocular perfusion pressure, excessive blood loss and anemia, hypotension, hypoxia, excessive fluid replacement, elevated venous pressure, head positioning and a patient-specific vascular susceptibility which may be anatomic or physiologic. However, the risk factors for any given patient or procedure may vary. The underlying specific pathogenesis of these neuro-ophthalmic complications remains unknown and physicians should be alert to the potential for loss of vision in the postoperative period. This review updates readers on the incidence, suspected risk factors, diagnosis and treatment of POVL in the setting of nonocular surgery.
Dislocation of the inferior turbinates: a rare complication of nasal surgery, presenting as obstructive sleep apnoea.	We report a very rare complication of nasal surgery: dislocation of the inferior turbinates into the nasopharynx, presenting as sleep apnoea and persistent nasal obstruction.
Development and validation of a risk calculator for prediction of cardiac risk after surgery.	Perioperative myocardial infarction or cardiac arrest is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The Revised Cardiac Risk Index is currently the most commonly used cardiac risk stratification tool; however, it has several limitations, one of which is its relatively low discriminative ability. The objective of the present study was to develop and validate a predictive cardiac risk calculator.
Perioperative management of von Willebrand disease: a review for the anesthesiologist.	von Willebrand disease (VWD) is the most common hereditary bleeding disorder in humans, with an estimated prevalence of 0.5% to 1%. Patients with VWD are at increased risk of perioperative bleeding complications. This review provides an evidence-based overview of VWD and its management during the perioperative period.
C-Reactive protein predicts acute myocardial infarction during high-risk noncardiac and vascular surgery.	High-sensitivity C-reactive protein predicts cardiovascular events in a wide range of clinical contexts. However, the role of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein as a predictive marker for perioperative acute myocardial infarction during noncardiac surgery is not yet clear. The present study investigated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels as predictors of acute myocardial infarction risk in patients undergoing high-risk noncardiac surgery.
Intervertebral focal surgery for the treatment of non-contiguous multifocal spinal tuberculosis.	The purpose of this study was to assess the clinical efficacy of intervertebral focal surgery by complete debridement, deformity correction, graft fusion, and internal fixation for patients with non-contiguous multifocal spinal tuberculosis.
Clinical observations on 600 cases of recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis.	A statistical review was made on 600 cases of recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis who visited the author's clinic during the last 16 years. The yearly incidence, the age and sex distributions and the classifications of the causes of paralysis were presented and discussed. A special attention was given to the topics of associated laryngeal paralysis, bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis and the so-called epidemic paralysis. A brief comment was also made on diagnosis and treatment of recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in general.
Thoracoscore fails to predict complications following elective lung resection.	The Thoracoscore mortality risk model has been incorporated into the British Thoracic Society guidelines on the radical management of patients with lung cancer. The discriminative and predictive ability to predict mortality and post-operative pulmonary complications (PPCs) in this group of patients is uncertain. A prospective observational study was carried out on all patients following lung resection via thoracotomy in a regional thoracic centre over 42 months. 128 out of 703 subjects developed a PPC. 16 (2%) patients died in hospital. In a logistic regression analysis the Thoracoscore was not a significant predictor of mortality (OR 1.07, 95% CI 0.99-1.17; p=0.11) but was a significant predictor of PPCs (OR 1.08, 95% CI 1.03-1.13; p=0.002). However, the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve for the Thoracoscore was 0.68 (95% CI 0.56-0.80) for predicting mortality and 0.64 (95% CI 0.59-0.69) for PPCs, indicating limited discriminative ability. In a logistic regression analysis, another risk model, the European Society Objective Score, was predictive of mortality (OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.11-1.83; p=0.006) and PPCs (OR 1.48, 95% CI 1.30-1.68; p<0.0001). Therefore, Thoracoscore may have poor discriminative and predictive ability for mortality and PPCs following elective lung resection.
The sterile immune response during hepatic ischemia/reperfusion.	Hepatic ischemia and reperfusion elicits an immune response that lacks a microbial constituent yet poses a potentially lethal threat to the host. In this sterile setting, the immune system is alarmed by endogenous danger signals that are release by stressed and dying liver cells. The detection of these immunogenic messengers by sentinel leukocyte populations constitutes the proximal trigger for a self-perpetuating cycle of inflammation, in which consecutive waves of cytokines and chemokines orchestrate the influx of various leukocyte subsets that ultimately confer tissue destruction. This review focuses on the temporal organization of sterile hepatic inflammation, using surgery-induced trauma as a template disease state.
Post-operative spondylodiscitis.	Postoperative spine infections (PSIs) are a frequent and dreaded complication of spine surgery. Although different studies have been published, the prevalence of PSIs is thought to be about 5% for most spine surgical procedures. Different risk factors have been identified for PSIs. Among the others, extensive soft tissue dissection, longer operative time, soft tissue devitalization, and use of surgical instrumentation have been associated with higher risks of infection. Direct inoculation during surgery is the common infection route for PSIs. Gram-positive cocci (such as Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis and beta-hemolytic streptococci) are the most common pathogens. Gram-negative bacteria also play a role in PSIs and may be associated with systemic illness and multisystem organ failure. A high level of suspicion is of paramount importance in early diagnosis of PSIs. Clinical symptoms of PSIs may be subtle and the infection may become apparent only in its late stages. Early diagnosis is the most important prognostic factor for PSIs. Although blood tests (i.e. ESR, CRP, and white blood cell count) and imaging studies (most commonly MRI) can be useful, it must be clear to the clinician that diagnostic modalities, either tissue biopsy or blood cultures, are of the utmost importance for diagnosing PSIs and devising a correct antibiotic therapy. Antibiotic therapy with early bracing (or bed rest) is the most commonly used treatment method for PSIs. Nevertheless, a more aggressive surgical treatment may be required in some patients. The goals of surgical treatment are to help the eradication of the infection, provide an adequate wound closure, and maintain spine column mechanical stability.
Perioperative tumour dissemination. 1. Influence of perioperative factors]	There has been growing concern in the last few years on the effect of anaesthetic drugs used during oncological surgery could have on tumour progression in the long-term, as well as the influence of other perioperative factors. Although much of the available data has weak evidence, the role of the surgery itself, pain, transfusion of blood derivatives, etc., have been assessed in several studies. How some substances used during the anaesthetic process can influence tumour immune surveillance, cell proliferation or tumour angiogenesis processes have been observed in laboratory studies. The possible relevance of the anaesthetic technique used as regards the long-term tumour progression and survival is still to be determined. However, based on retrospective studies, it seems that those anaesthetic techniques combined with the use of regional anaesthesia and analgesia could be beneficial compared to those that are maintained on opioid use. Further research should help to elucidate the long-term clinical relevance of the perioperative procedures, including the anaesthetic, during oncological surgery.
Prevention of venous thromboembolism in patients admitted to Australian hospitals: summary of National Health and Medical Research Council clinical practice guideline.	Each year in Australia, about 1 in 1000 people develop a first episode of venous thromboembolism (VTE), which approximates to about 20,000 cases. More than half of these episodes occur during or soon after a hospital admission, which makes them potentially preventable. This paper summarises recommendations from the National Health and Medical Research Council's 'Clinical Practice Guideline for the Prevention of Venous Thromboembolism in Patients Admitted to Australian Hospitals' and describes the way these recommendations were developed. The guideline has two aims: to provide advice on VTE prevention to Australian clinicians and to support implementation of effective programmes for VTE prevention in Australian hospitals by offering evidence-based recommendations which local hospital guidelines can be based on. Methods for preventing VTE are pharmacological and/or mechanical, and they require appropriate timing, dosing and duration and also need to be accompanied by good clinical care, such as promoting mobility and hydration whilst in hospital. With some procedures or injuries, the risk of VTE is sufficiently high to require that all patients receive an effective form of prophylaxis unless this is contraindicated; in other clinical settings, the need for prophylaxis requires individual assessment. For optimal VTE prevention, all patients admitted to hospital should have early and formal assessments of: (i) their intrinsic VTE risk and the risks related to their medical conditions; (ii) the added VTE risks resulting from surgery or trauma; (iii) bleeding risks that would contraindicate pharmacological prophylaxis; (iv) any contraindications to mechanical prophylaxis, culminating in (v) a decision about prophylaxis (pharmacological and/or mechanical, or none). The most appropriate form of prophylaxis will depend on the type of surgery, medical condition and patient characteristics. Recommendations for various clinical circumstances are provided as summary tables with relevance to orthopaedic surgical procedures, other types of surgery and medical inpatients. In addition, the tables indicate the grades of supporting evidence for the recommendations (these range from Grade A which can be trusted to guide practice, to Grade D where there is more uncertainty; Good Practice Points are consensus-based expert opinions).
The effectiveness of a long-acting transdermal fentanyl solution compared to buprenorphine for the control of postoperative pain in dogs in a randomized, multicentered clinical study.	A prospective, double-blinded, positive-controlled, multicenter, noninferiority clinical study was conducted to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a long-acting transdermal fentanyl solution (TFS) for the control of postoperative pain. Four hundred forty-five client-owned dogs of various breeds were randomly assigned to receive a single dose of TFS (2.6 mg/kg [50 L/kg]) (N = 223) applied 2-4 h prior to surgery or buprenorphine (20 g/kg) (N = 222) administered intramuscularly 2-4 h prior to surgery and every 6 h through 90 h. There were 159 (35.7%) males and 286 (64.3%) females ranging from 0.5 to 16 years of age and 3 to 98.5 kg enrolled. Pain was scored using the modified Glasgow Composite Pain Scale with an a priori dropout criteria of  8 (20 maximum score). The one-sided upper 95% confidence interval of the mean difference between fentanyl and buprenorphine treatment failures was 5.6%, which was not greater than the a priori selected margin difference of 15%. Adverse events attributed to either treatment were minimal in impact and were approximately equal between groups. Sustained plasma fentanyl concentrations provided by a single pre-emptive dose of TFS are safe and effective and are noninferior to repeated injections of buprenorphine in controlling postoperative pain over 4days. This long-acting fentanyl formulation provides veterinarians with a novel, registered option for the control of postoperative pain in dogs that improves dosing compliance and potentially mitigates the disadvantages of oral, parenteral, and patch delivered opioids.
Population pharmacokinetics of transdermal fentanyl solution following a single dose administered prior to soft tissue and orthopedic surgery in dogs.	A novel, long-acting transdermal fentanyl solution (TFS) that delivers sustained plasma fentanyl concentrations following a single application for the control of postoperative pain has recently been approved for use in dogs. The pharmacokinetics (PKs) of this formulation have been evaluated in healthy laboratory dogs, but they have not been reported in a clinical population of dogs for which it is indicated. Plasma fentanyl concentrations were determined from 215 dogs following a single, small-volume (50 L/kg) dose of TFS administered 2-4 h prior to orthopedic or soft tissue surgery. A population PK model was fit, and a 1-compartment open PK model with first-order absorption and an absorption lag-time best described the data. No tested clinical covariates had a significant effect on the PKs. The final model adequately described the population PKs and gave results consistent with laboratory PK studies in healthy dogs. The PKs were primarily characterized by a rapid initial increase in plasma fentanyl concentrations and a long terminal half-life of 74.0 (95% C.I. [54.7-113]) h governed by flip-flop kinetics for the typical subject. The plasma fentanyl concentrations were sustained over days in the range considered to be analgesic for postoperative pain in dogs.
Effects of hospital nurse staffing on in-hospital mortality, pneumonia, sepsis, and urinary tract infection in surgical patients]	This study was done to examine relationships between nurse staffing level and postsurgical patient outcomes using inpatient database from the National Health Insurance.
Asian venous thromboembolism guidelines: prevention of venous thromboembolism.	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis is under-utilized in Asia because of the misconception that its incidence is lower in Asians as compared to the Caucasians. The available data on VTE in Asia is limited due to the lack of well-designed multicenter randomized controlled trials as well as non-standardized research designs, making data comparison difficult. Emerging data indicates that the VTE incidence is not low in Asia, and is comparable to that reported in the Western literature in some instances. There is also a trend towards increasing incidence of VTE, as demonstrated by a number of hospital-based studies in Asia. This could be attributed to lifestyle changes, ageing population, increasing awareness of VTE and wider availability of Duplex ultrasound. The risk of VTE in hospitalized patients remain the same in Asians and Caucasians, even though there may be factors that are inherent to patients in Asia that influence the slight variation in incidence. The utilization rate of VTE prophylaxis remains suboptimal in Asia. The Asian Venous Thrombosis Forum (AVTF) comprises participants from various countries such as China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and experts from Australia and Europe. The forum evaluated the available data on VTE from the Asian region and formulated guidelines tailored to meet the needs of the region. We recommend that serious considerations are given to VTE prophylaxis especially in the at-risk group and a formal hospital policy be established to facilitate the implementation. On admission to the hospital, we recommend assessing the patients for both VTE and bleeding risk. We recommend mechanical prophylaxis for patients at increased risk of bleeding and utilizing it as an adjunctive measure in combination with pharmacological prophylaxis in patients with high risk of VTE. For patients undergoing general or gynecological surgery and with moderate risk for VTE, we recommend prophylaxis with one of the following: low dose unfractionated heparin (LDUH), low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), fondaparinux or intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC). For the same group of patients at high risk of VTE, we recommend pharmacological or combination of pharmacological and mechanical prophylaxis. For patients undergoing major orthopedic surgeries like total hip replacement, total knee replacement and proximal hip fracture surgery, we recommend using one of the following: LMWH, fondaparinux, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban, dabigatran, warfarin or aspirin with IPC. For patients admitted to the hospital with acute medical illness and has moderate risk of VTE, we recommend prophylaxis with LDUH, LMWH or Fondaparinux. For the same group at high risk of VTE, we recommend combination of pharmacological and mechanical prophylaxis.
A survey of contemporary opinions and practices of surgical and intensive care specialists towards peri-operative venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in Asia.	This survey was conducted to determine the opinions and practices of peri-operative venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis among surgical and intensive care specialists in Asia.
Surgical checklists: a systematic review of impacts and implementation.	Surgical complications represent a significant cause of morbidity and mortality with the rate of major complications after inpatient surgery estimated at 3-17% in industrialised countries. The purpose of this review was to summarise experience with surgical checklist use and efficacy for improving patient safety.
POSSUM and P-POSSUM for risk assessment in general surgery in the elderly.	The Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enUmeration of Mortality and morbidity (POSSUM) and Portsmouth POSSUM (P-POSSUM) use preoperative and intraoperative factors to evaluate risk. We examined our surgical results to investigate predictive factors for morbidity and mortality, and evaluate the accuracy of the POSSUM and P-POSSUM.
Outcomes of inpatient mobilization: a literature review.	To review current research evidence on the outcomes of mobilising hospitalised adults.
Correlation of missed doses of enoxaparin with increased incidence of deep vein thrombosis in trauma and general surgery patients.	Enoxaparin sodium is widely used for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis, yet DVT rates remain high in the trauma and general surgery populations. Missed doses during hospitalization are common.
Inadequate venous thromboembolism risk stratification predicts venous thromboembolic events in surgical intensive care unit patients.	Surgical intensive care unit (SICU) patients are known to be at high risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE). The 2005 Caprini Risk Assessment Model (RAM) predicts VTE risk in surgical patients. However, a physician's ability to accurately complete this RAM and the effect that inaccurate RAM completion might have on VTE risk remain unknown.
Modulation of inflammatory reactions by surgical trauma: lack of relationship with corticosteroid secretion.	The effect of surgery on inflammation was studied in male Wistar R/A rats using the carrageenin-induced edema model. Swelling of the paw was measured in standardized arbitrary units 2, 4, and 6 hr after a subcutaneous injection of carrageenin iota in the subplantar region of the right hind limb. It was significantly depressed in rats submitted to laparotomy (5.0 +/- 0.4, 8.0 +/- 1.0, 13.7 +/- 1.9) when compared with controls simply anesthetized with ether (6.2 +/- 0.5, 15.5 +/- 1.2, 23.7 +/- 0.6) (p less than 0.001 at 4 and 6 hr). This inhibition lasted for at least 24 hr and was also observed after amputation, although in these experiments, the difference between operated animals and controls was not significant. Alterations of the inflammatory cellular infiltrate were studied using polyurethane sponges soaked with carrageenin lambda implanted subcutaneously in control animals and rats undergoing laparotomy or amputation. The total number of cells recovered from these sponges 5 hr after implantation was smaller in operated rats (2.9 +/- 0.4 x 10(6) cells after laparotomy, 3.1 +/- 1.0 x 10(6) cells after amputation) when compared with controls (11.1 +/- 1.9 x 10(6) cells and 10.3 +/- 1.3 x 10(6) cells) (p less than 0.001 for laparotomy and p less than 0.005 for amputation). The inhibitory effect of operative trauma was not abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy performed 12 days before laparotomy. In rats, surgical trauma induces a depression of remote inflammatory reactions. This phenomenon is not related to increased corticosterone levels.
Immunosuppression caused by surgery and severe trauma]	The present prospective study was performed to describe physiological immunosuppressive effects dependent on minor surgical interventions and an immunodeficiency syndrome after major surgery and severe trauma. Parameters of cellular and humoral immunity were monitored in 64 patients of the Department of Surgery of the University Hospital Zurich preoperatively and on days 1, 2, 3 and 4 after selective surgery or polytrauma. 22 patients were multiply traumatized (mean ISS 34.7 +/- 13), 14 patients underwent Y-grafting of the abdominal aorta, 11 resection of colorectal carcinoma, 8 cholecystectomy and 9 inguinal herniotomy. There could be seen a decrease of parameters of cellular immunity (absolute lymphocyte count, CD-4-/CD-8-cell-ratio and release of IL2-receptors), a decrease of humoral defense (immunoglobulins and complement factors) and an increase of macrophage activation (serum levels of neopterin).
The effects of anesthesia and surgery on lymphocyte populations and function in infants and children.	A study was designed to test the hypothesis that the lymphopenia caused by surgical stress in children may arise through selective depletion of one or more lymphocyte subsets. Blood samples from 22 children were taken pre- and postoperatively and 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours after surgery. Lymphocyte subsets were identified and counted using monoclonal antibodies and indirect immunofluorescence. By six hours postoperatively, the mean total lymphocyte count had fallen by 1.87 x 10(9)/L (P less than .01); this was largely due to the fall in helper T cells (1.53 x 10(9)/L, P less than .01) and both counts remained depressed for at least 48 hours. The helper:suppressor ratio also fell, from 3.42 to 1.92 (P less than .01), but had recovered by 48 hours. Lymphocyte function as measured by the response to pokeweed mitogen and concanavalin A was also reduced six hours postoperatively. These changes were independent of age. Major surgery in infants and children causes a selective reduction in helper T lymphocyte numbers, helper:suppressor ratio, and lymphocyte function. This suggests that immune competence in the immediate postoperative period in children is reduced, as it is in adults. The duration of this and its relationship to infection are not yet known.
Prognostic factors and complications of vitreous surgery.	Vitrectomy has provided a means for the restoration or amelioration of drastically reduced visual acuity in selected patients. Many patients have, as a consequence of the deleterious natural history of their disease, suffered permanent impairment of vision, but in some cases even a relative therapeutic success is very gratifying. Nonetheless, in its present state, vitreous surgery is not without a significant incidence of complications which are enumerated in this paper.
Femoral neuropathy as a complication of aortic surgery.	In a series of 1006 aortic operations for atherosclerotic occlusive or aneurysmal disease a femoral neuropathy with paresis of the quadriceps femoris muscle and sensory disturbances occurred in 34 patients or 3.4%. The femoral nerve palsy was left-sided 23 times, right-sided 9 times and bilateral twice. Twenty-nine patients had a complete recovery after 1/2 to 1 years. It is suggested that the femoral neuropathy is of ischaemic nature and caused by aortic clamping. The scant blood supply of the intrapelvic section of the femoral nerve is derived from the iliolumbar artery, a branch of the internal iliac artery, and from the deep circumflex iliac artery, a branch of the external iliac artery. On the right side the deep circumflex iliac artery gives more branches to the nerve and there are more anastomoses with the fourth and fifth lumbar arteries, than on the left side. This may be the explanation for the preference of the nerve palsy for the left side.
Intraoperative ureteral trauma: a radiologic approach.	Thirty-two patients with inadvertent intraoperative ureteral trauma or ligation are presented. One-third of the injuries were due to general surgical procedures such as lumbar sympathectomy, aortoiliac bypass and colectomy. Because of postoperative pain, discomfort and sedation, these injuries are frequently unrecognized for long periods. This delay in diagnosis results in significant morbidity and mortality. The usual radiologic approach is an excretory urogram supplemented if necessary by a retrograde pyelogram. Temporary percutaneous or operative nephropyelostomies have been employed in seven of these patients.
Noncardiac surgery in patients with coronary artery disease. Risks, precautions, and perioperative management.	Patients with coronary artery disease face increased risks when they undergo noncardiac surgery. This is attributable to the cardiovascular stress imposed by the surgical procedure and the effects of anesthetic agents on the cardiovascular system. Several approaches to managing patients with coronary artery disease before, during, and after noncardiac surgery include "prophylactic" myocardial revascularization procedures, digitalization, use of propranolol hydrochloride, and insertion of temporary intravenous pacemakers.
Pulmonary complications of general surgery.	1. Patients should be divided preoperatively into low- or high-risk categories, depending on their probability of developing postoperative pulmonary complications. The evaluation should include spirometry as well as an assessment of the previously defined risk factors. 2. Patients in a low-risk category need only instruction in deep breathing pre- and postoperatively. Routine use of supplemented oxygen postoperatively is reasonable until it can be demonstrated whether such is necessary. 3. High-risk patients should be as free as possible of respiratory secretions at the time of surgery. A regimen for this purpose includes cessation of smoking, and administration of inhaled bronchodilators followed by chest percussion and postural drainage. 4. High-risk patients should be carefully instructed in deep breathing and coughing preoperatively. A mechanical device such as an incentive spirometer may be beneficial in this regard. If it is not possible to achieve spontaneous deep breathing, an attempt to accomplish this by IPPB may be undertaken. The tidal volume desired should be ordered. If IPPB does not result in large tidal volumes, it should be discontinued. 5. The deep breathing procedure found to be most successful preoperativelly should be continued postoperatively. 6. The patient should be as mobile as possible while in bed and ambulated as soon as is feasible. 7. Patients with preoperative expiratory flows of less than 20% of predicted values or with chronic hypercapnia should be carefully observed for postoperative ventilatory failure.
Immune disorders after severe injury.	Septic complications are still the major cause of death in patients with severe injuries, whether due to polytrauma, large burns, or difficult surgical operations. The very high incidence of such infectious episodes in spite of the continuous development of new broad spectrum antibiotics and appropriate intensive care managements, may suggest that any kind of severe injury leads to a state of acquired immunologic deficiencies. Thus an intensive relation has been demonstrated between the extend of body burned surfaces and the neutrophil chemotaxis whose dramatic decline could originate either from an intraleukocytic defect, or from inhibitory factors released by the damaged tissues. Furthermore, any important tissular destruction has been shown to stimulate the clonal proliferation of T suppressor lymphocytes which could be considered as a physiological protective mechanism against the development of an autoimmunization towards self-structures released by the wound in the blood stream. Factors able to activate T suppressor lymphocytes after injury are multiple and among them most important are: HLA-bearing cell wall components, histamine released by tissue mast cells, soluble factors produced at the level of the wound, bacterial endotoxins, arachidonic acid metabolites, etc. Finally, it has been mentioned that this state of immune deficiency after injury may still be exacerbated by iatrogenic measured like catheters, antibiotherapy, corticotherapy, and mainly by malnutrition.
Injuries of ureteral lower segment and the bladder during surgery.	The injuries of the lower ureteral segment and the bladder are relatively frequent during gynaecological and surgical interventions in the small pelvis. The cases of 25 ureteral injuries observed in the period between 1976 and 1985 are now evaluated. The majority of them are complications arising due to gynaecological operations. Attention is drawn to the rise in the number of ureteral lesions connected with the progress of colic and vascular surgery. The aim of reconstructive surgical solutions is to restitute function and to attempt to find the organ-saving possibilities. Bladder injuries occur most often during transurethral operations (TUR). The nature of artifactual injuries associated with TUR and the ways they are inflicted were analysed on the basis of a study of about 1000 cases.
Incidence of deep vein thrombosis after major abdominal surgery in Brisbane.	There is some evidence that postoperative deep vein thrombosis (DVT) may be commoner in cool than in warm climates. To determine whether this complication is less common in the subtropical climate of Brisbane than in more temperate locations, the incidence of DVT after major abdominal surgery was assessed by 125I fibrinogen scanning. In order to avoid overestimating the incidence of DVT, abnormal scans were accepted as diagnostic only if the DVT was confirmed by venography or if the abnormality on the scan fulfilled more stringent criteria than have previously been applied. Thirty-six of 152 patients (24 per cent) developed a DVT; this incidence was significantly lower than in one previous study from Melbourne and higher than that found in South-East Asia and East Africa, but was not significantly different from that reported from Sydney, Japan and several centres in North America and Britain. There was no apparent seasonal variation in the incidence of the complication. The geographical variation in incidence of postoperative DVT may have been overestimated in previous reports and may be at least partly due to variations in screening technique.
Injury to the brachial plexus during Putti-Platt and Bristow procedures. A report of eight cases.	Eight patients with documented recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder sustained iatrogenic brachial plexus injuries during either Putti-Platt or Bristow procedures. Two patients also sustained axillary artery injuries. There were six males and two females. Postoperatively, complete paralysis of the musculocutaneous nerve was noted in six cases and incomplete paralysis in one case. Two patients had complete axillary nerve palsies. There were two cases of partial paralysis of the radial, median, and ulnar nerves, respectively. Seven of the patients underwent brachial plexus exploration an average of 16 weeks following their initial operation (range, 4 to 40). Suture material was removed from around or within two musculocutaneous nerves and one ulnar, one median, and one axillary nerve. Two lacerated musculocutaneous nerves were amenable to delayed primary repair. Two musculocutaneous, one median and one axillary nerve required grafting. Injury to the brachial plexus was associated with inadequate knowledge of regional anatomy, blind clamping of axillary artery lacerations, use of axillary incisions which limited exposure, and failure to identify the musculocutaneous nerve during Bristow procedures. If a brachial plexus injury occurs during a Putti-Platt or a Bristow procedure and the lesion does not rapidly, progressively, and completely recover, the brachial plexus should be explored since there is a high likelihood of structural neurologic injury.
Evaluation of current operations for the prevention of gastroesophageal reflux.	A prospective randomized study was done on 45 patients to evaluate the effectiveness of the Hill, Nissen or Belsey anti-reflux procedure. All patients had symptoms of GE reflux unresponsive to medical therapy, a + standard acid reflux test (SART), and esophagitis (38/45) or + Burnstein test (7/45). Esophageal symptomatic, radiographic, manometric and pH (SART and 24-hr monitoring) evaluation was done pre- and 154 days (ave.) postsurgery. All procedures improved the symptoms of pyrosis. The best improvement was seen after the Nissen repair. All procedures increased the distal esophageal sphincter (DES) pressures over preoperative levels. The Nissen and Belsey increased it more than the Hill. Sphincter length and dynamics remained unchanged. The Nissen procedure placed more of the manometric sphincter below the respiratory inversion point in the positive pressure environment of the abdomen. The esophageal length was increased by the Nissen and Hill repairs. This was thought to account for the high incidence of temporary postsurgery dysphagia following the Nissen and Hill repairs and the lower incidence following the Belsey repair. Reflux was most effectively prevented by the Nissen repair, as shown by the SART and the 24-hr esophageal pH monitoring, a sensitive measurement of frequency and duration of reflux. The average length of hospital stay was 20 days for Belsey and 12 days for both Nissen and Hill procedure. Postsurgery complications were more common following the thoracic than the abdominal approach. Ability to vomit postrepair was greatest with the Hill and least with the Belsey and Nissen repair. All procedures temporarily increased amount of flatus. It is concluded that the Nissen repair best controls reflux and its symptoms by providing the greatest increase in DES pressure and placing more of the sphincter in the positive abdominal environment. This is accomplished with the lowest morbidity but at the expense of temporary postoperative dysphagia and a 50% chance of being unable to vomit after the repair.
Long-term clinical course and symptomatic status of patients after operation for hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.	Long-term results of operation for IHSS were reviewed in 124 patients operated upon between 1960 and 1975. Most patients improved symptomatically and manifested marked reduction in LV outflow gradient at rest postoperatively. However, ten (8%) patients died of causes related to operation, 14 (12%) had persistent or recurrent severe functional limitation, and 11 (9%) died up to 13 years postoperatively due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Overall annual mortality rate was 3.5% and was 1.8% for late deaths alone. Of 11 late postoperative deaths, six were sudden and five were due to chronic heart failure. Atrial fibrillation was significantly more common in patients who died late postoperatively than in survivors. Nine of the 11 late deaths had associated medical problems that may have contributed to their outcome. In conclusion, long-lasting clinical improvement occurred in most patients who survived operation for IHSS. However, 12% of patients deteriorated clinically over the 5.2 year average follow-up, and there is continued, small annual mortality.
The spectrum of vitamin K deficiency.	The coagulopathy induced by vitamin K deficiency commonly results from our lack of awareness of the clinical setting associated with vitamin K deficiency. Thirteen cases are reviewed to illustrate the clinical correlates most frequently observed. Dietary deficiency was always present, but concomitant antibiotic therapy was not an absolute requirement. The postoperative patient is at high risk, as is the patient with cancer or renal failure. Abnormal bleeding was common, but significant hemorrhage occurred only in postoperative patients. Factor assays were helpful and occasionally necessary to make the diagnosis, but a therapeutic trial with parenteral vitamin K was often enough to provide the right diagnosis. Greater awareness of this deficiency syndrome is necessary to avoid the serious morbidity that often results.
Association between failure to impregnate after vasovasostomy and sperm agglutinins in semen.	Sperm agglutinins emerging from the reopened part of the vas deferens were found in the seminal fluid of 10 out of 29 men after vasovasostomy. There was a strong association between the presence of these antibodies and the failure to impregnate over a period of 14 to 33 months. Of 20 couples, 11 pregnancies resulted among the 13 women whose men had no sperm agglutinins in the seminal fluid, but only 1 among the 7 whose men had such antibodies, 2p = 0.0044. The presence of sperm agglutinins in the seminal fluid was always associated with their presence in the serum, usually in a higher titre. Preoperative serum levels thus are highly predictive of ability to impregnate after reversal of vasectomy.
Late meningeal effects of myelographic contrast media with special reference to metrizamide.	Two hundred and fifty-six myelograms in 192 patients were following by repeat myelography using a water-soluble contrast medium. The films of these re-examinations were analysed for signs of meningeal changes. Adhesive arachnoiditis had developed in five of 46 cases after methiodal sodium, in 24 of 96 cases after iothalamate meglumine, in seven of 12 cases after iocarmate meglumine, in seven of ten cases after iodophendylate, but in none of 90 cases after metrizamide. Dose of contrast medium, observation time and protein concentration of the CSF were found to be factors of importance for the development of adhesive arachnoiditis.
Ureteral trauma: effects of ureteral ligation with and without deligation--experimental studies and case reports.	Inadvertent ureteral ligation is a well recognized risk during abdominal, retroperitoneal and pelvic operations. The feasibility and the safety of ureteral ligation treated with deligation have been documented. Herein is presented an over-all evaluation of the experience with ureteral ligation treated by deligation in 32 dogs and 4 women.
The role of ureteral stenting in the management of surgical injury of the ureter.	From 1965 through 1976, 35 patients with surgical injury of the ureter were treated by operations requiring ureteral anastomoses. Stenting devices were used in 31 patients with only 2 failures. Stents were omitted in 4 patients with 2 failures. We have been satisfied with and prefer stenting ureteral anastomoses in the management of surgical ureteral injury, particularly when there is delayed recognition of the injury or previous irradiation. Previous objections to stenting are unjustified.
Effects of surgery and epidural or general anaesthesia on testosterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone and cortisol plasma levels in prepubertal boys.	Testosterone (T), 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17P) and cortisol (F) plasma levels have been measured in two groups of prepubertal boys before and during surgery under general anaesthesia (Group 1) and epidural anaesthesia (Group 2) respectively. The mean plasma levels of T, 17P and F increased significantly (P less than 0.05; P less than 0.001; P less than 0.005, respectively) during surgery in Group 1; in Group 2 the plasma levels of T and F did not show any significant variation, whereas 17P significantly increased (P less than 0.05). However the mean level reached by 17P in Group 2 was significantly lower (P less than 0.005) than that observed in Group 1. No significant variation of LH and FSH plasma levels was observed in either group. Our report suggests that the modifications of T and 17P plasma levels observed during surgery under general anaesthesia (GA) are probably due to the stress induced adrenal response. This response can be inhibited or reduced by epidural anaesthesia (EA).
Retinal detachment following phacoemulsification.	In a consecutive series of 1,500 eyes in which phacoemulsification had been performed, the incidence of subsequent retinal detachment was 3.6%. Vitreous loss occurred in 4.2% (63) of the 1,500 cases, and in this group of eyes the incidence of retinal detachment was 14% (9). The characteristics of retinal breaks and the configurations of retinal detachments following phacoemulsification were in general similar to cases following intracapsular surgery. The surgical reattachment rates in these eyes compared favorably to previous reports on the repair of retinal detachments.
Sphincter preservation in rectal cancer: possibilities and limits of anterior resection]	The feasibility of sphincter preservation was studied in surgery of tumours in the upper, middle and lower third of the rectum. All patients operated on for rectal cancer between January 1977 and May 1980 were included in the investigation. Preoperative localization of the tumours was performed with the rigid sigmoidoscope. Every patient was scheduled for post-operative follow up. Altogether 211 patients were operated on for rectal cancer. 111 were treated by anterior resection, 90 by abdominoperineal excision, and 10 by other sphincter-saving methods. All of the 59 tumours located in the upper third of the rectum (12 to 16 cm from the anus) were treated by anterior resection. 62 tumours were located in the middle third (8 to 12 cm). In these cases anterior resection was carried out in 60% of the men and in 82% of the women, whereas the other patients underwent abdominoperineal excision. 80 tumours were located in the lower third (4 to 8 cm). Anterior resection was possible in only 4.4% of the men and in 14% of the women. Irrespective of their localization on sigmoidoscopy, 37% of the tumours which were within reach of the finger on rectal palpation could be removed by anterior resection. Local recurrence after anterior resection occurred in 18.3%, the median follow-up time being 50 months. The cumulative probable survival for all stages was more than 5 years for 60% of the patients.
Vascular complications of surgical procedures.	Vascular complications of surgical procedures can be diagnosed at angiography, and in some cases, transcatheter treatment is possible.
Insulin secretion after surgery: measurements after abdominal operations]	The study includes measurements of glucose and insulin in 30 patients after surgical trauma. The times of measurements were between the 2nd and 6th, 6th and 10th, and 10th and 21st postoperative days. An intravenous glucose load (1 g/kg body weight/60 min) was used. For the exact measurement of secretion of the islet cells we also determined insulin and glucose in portal venous blood. The following conclusions were made: (1) Measurements of insulin in the peripheral venous blood has no exact correlation to insulin secretion in the postoperative period. The insulin concentration in the portal vein blood after a glucose load shows significant variations to the insulin concentration in the cubital vein blood. (2) A greater surgical trauma (abdominal operation) causes a disorder of glucose utilization in the first postoperative week. (3) The insulin secretion after intravenous glucose load is significantly diminished during the first operative week.
Evidence for case-to-case transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.	Three cases of probable iatrogenic transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease by neurosurgery are detailed together with a cluster of three cases in Eastern England possibly connected by dental procedures, and the development of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in a patient who had been in social contact with a familial case.
Natural history of the retained surgical sponge.	Retained surgical sponge is an infrequently reported condition that may be recognized incidentally during the early postoperative period, produce serious complications, or remain dormant for years. Clinical manifestations of the retained surgical sponge are a function of bacterial contamination and of the location of the sponge within the body cavity. Few sequelae follow external extrusion but internal erosion may lead to abscess, fistulas, and intestinal obstruction. Prevention requires constant sensitivity of the surgeon to this potential threat to the safe practice of surgery. The surgeon must account for an incorrect sponge count by adequate examination of the operative field and by roentgenographic studies when the issue remains in doubt. A correct sponge count does not fully preclude a retained sponge, however, and inspection of the operative field should be routine in all patients at risk.
Arterial aneurysms of the petrous portion of the carotid artery]	The authors report on 3 patients with arterial aneurysms of the petrous part of the carotid artery which in 2 of them were manifested by profuse recurrent hemorrhages from the external acoustic meatus. The aneurysm was caused by penetrating injury of the middle ear in one patient and injury inflicted during surgery on the middle ear for purulent otitis and mastoiditis in another. Hemorrhages in the third patient occurred during exacerbation of chronic purulent inflammation of the middle ear. The diagnosis of aneurysm was made by cerebral angiography in combination with the method of substruction of the temporal bone structures. In 2 patients with aneurysms of this localization which is difficult for access were completely excluded from circulation by the endovascular method using a balloon catheter. The third patient was not operated on because of spontaneous thrombosis of the cervical segment of the carotid artery. The authors analyse the pathogenesis, clinical course, diagnosis and methods  for the management of such aneurysms. They claim that the endovascular method with use of a balloon catheter is most effective for arresting the flow of blood through aneurysms of such localization and for arresting profuse hemorrhages from the external acoustic meatus.
Impotence: relevance and assessment in the surgical patient.	Two simple methods of assessing the presence and likely cause of impotence are described. The mechanism of sexual dysfunction is discussed with particular relevance to the surgical patient.
Postoperative deterioration in muscular function.	To clarify the postoperative fatigue state, we analyzed some components of muscular function before and after surgical procedures. Eleven subjects undergoing elective surgery were studied for test periods of up to 35 days. Significant impairment of muscular functioning, particularly muscle endurance, developed postoperatively. Maximum deterioration was noted on postoperative days 8 and 9. Isometric strength was affected more than isokinetic strength. Changes in muscular functioning in two young volunteers undergoing bed rest were surprisingly similar to those observed in postoperative patients.
Incidental splenectomy associated with Nissen fundoplication.	Despite the relative frequency of iatrogenic splenectomy, its effect on postoperative morbidity and mortality remains controversial. This retrospective study compares the postoperative morbidity and mortality among 72 patients who underwent a Nissen fundoplication for esophageal reflux and 25 patients who had iatrogenic splenectomy and Nissen fundoplication. The age range in both groups was comparable. In the Nissen fundoplication (N.F.) group the average postoperative hospital stay was 9.4 days and in the Nissen fundoplication and splenectomy (N.F. + S.) group postoperative hospital stay was 15 days. In the N.F. group nine patients (12.5%) experienced significant postoperative morbidity in comparison to 36% in the N.F. + S. group (statistically significant p less than 0.1%). In the later group the complications were of a more severe nature. No mortality occurred in the N.F. group and one patient died in the N.F. + S. group. Iatrogenic splenectomy in this patient could well have been a prime factor in precipitating his demise. This retrospective study stongly supports the view that iatrogenic splenectomy in association with Nissen fundoplication adds considerably to postoperative morbidity.
Aortoenteric fistulas: a preventable problem?	The results of management in 22 patients with secondary aortoenteric fistula are reviewed to determine whether this condition can be prevented. In 14 patients who had resection of an aneurysm, the fistula developed in spite of adequate coverage of the synthetic graft. Most fistulas occurred at sites of anastomosis (81%). Half the patients presented with sudden massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage; however, in 40% hemorrhage had occurred up to 18 months before admission. Endoscopy is the most useful diagnostic modality, but the condition must first be suspected. The most successful definitive management of this problem was removal of the graft and revasoularization of the lower limbs by insertion of an extra-anatomic bypass graft. The overall mortality in the series was 60% and the operative mortality 47%. The preventive aspects of this complication and technical details of the aortic and duodenal closure are discussed. The authors believe that this serious complication of aortic bypass grafting may be prevented by ensuring that the suture line is adequately separated from the small bowel and duodenum.
Congenital blepharoptosis, anisometropia, and amblyopia.	A review of the records of 65 patients who had surgery for congenital blepharoptosis of the upper eyelid during a three-year period revealed the preoperative presence of anisometropia, strabismus, or amblyopia in 19 patients. Postoperatively, ten of the 65 patients developed or increased their astigmatism in the operated eye. In four of these patients amblyopia attributed to this postoperative astigmatism developed. The results of our study suggest that blepharoptosis surgery done in the first few years of life may contribute to the development of astigmatism and amblyopia in some patients.
Paraplegia from operating position and spinal stenosis in non-spinal surgery: a case report.	A 61-year-old patient with pre-existing but asymptomatic spinal stenosis was placed in the lateral position on the operating table for hip surgery. The lumbar spine was in a position of extension and lateral bend. This position, combined with severe spinal stenosis (proven later at surgery), caused enough compression on the neural elements to produce permanent paraplegia. Similar cases have been reported but remain an infrequent cause of postoperative paraplegia.
The high cost of low-frequency events: the anatomy and economics of surgical mishaps.	We conducted a one-year prospective survey to identify adverse outcomes due to error during care in the field of general surgery. We identified 36 such cases among 5612 surgical admissions to the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, but in 23 cases the initiating mishap had occurred in another hospital before transfer. In two thirds of the cases the mishap was due to an error of commission: an unnecessary, defective or inappropriate operative procedure. Twenty of these patients died in the hospital, and in 11 death was directly attributable to the error. Five of the 16 survivors left the hospital with serious physical impairment. A satisfactory outcome was achieved in only 11 cases (31%). The average hospital stay was 42 days, with the duration ranging from one to 325 days; the total cost for the 36 patients was $1,732,432. We suggest that all hospitals develop comprehensive methods to identify and prevent these costly and unnecessary events.
Creatine kinase alterations after acute malignant hyperthermia episodes and common surgical procedures.	Skeletal muscle may release creatine kinase (CK) during a malignant hyperthermia (MH) episode; however, muscle damaged during surgery may also release CK. This study examined the overlap between peak plasma CK levels in patients suspected of having had a MH episode (data obtained from North American MH Registry) and previously published CK changes occurring after common surgeries. For patients who were subsequently proven to be MH positive by muscle biopsy, there was considerable overlap. This was most significant with surgeries having substantial tissue damage, such as major vascular surgery and abdominal surgery. Overlap was much less with minimally invasive surgery, such as cystoscopy. Approximately 30% of MH positive patients treated with dantrolene had peak CK in the range of most surgical procedures, and approximately 50% of MH positive patients not given succinylcholine had peak CK similar to those of most surgical procedures. Dantrolene did not significantly alter peak CK in MH positive patients; however, succinylcholine was associated with significantly higher peak CK. These data suggest that patients who have had an acute MH episode during a surgical procedure may have peak CK values within the range of CK values expected from the procedure itself.
Suspension of the globe during intraocular surgery.	The unopened eye maintains a relatively stable spherical contour due to the expansile influence of the intraocular pressure. When the eye is opened this expansile pressure is lost and some degree of collapse of the scleral shell ensues. In eyes with a relatively flaccid sclera an anterior segment incision may induce significant reduction in the volume of the posterior segment of the globe. During intracapsular cataract extraction on such eyes, scleral collapse can cause anterior displacement of the lens and iris when the eye is opened and vitreous loss as soon as the lens is extracted. Scleral collapse tends to occur during intraocular surgery on previously aphakic eyes. In this situation it may become difficult to achieve a vitreous-free anterior sement by open sky vitrectomy. Metallic scleral supporters prevent inward collapse of that portion of the sclera  to which they are attached. They do not prevent downward collapse of the posterior sclera shell. Upward traction is required to prevent the downward component of scleral collapse. A system for controlled suspension of the globe during intraocular surgery has been devised and used in a variety of surgical procedures. The apparatus is simple and it does help to minimize downward scleral collapse. It does not prevent scleral identation or distortion by external forces and cannot substitute for inadequate anesthesia and akinesia or faulty surgical technique.
Prophylaxis for postoperative deep-vein thrombosis. Synergistic effect of heparin and dihydroergotamine.	Randomized clinical trials in 300 patients undergoing major abdominal surgery or hip replacement arthroplasty were performed to investigate the efficacy of dihydroergotamine mesylate, heparin calcium, or a combination of dihydroergotamine with heparin in preventing postoperative deep-vein thrombosis (DVT). The diagnosis of DVT was established by an uptake test using fibrinogen labeled with iodine 125; in patients undergoing hip replacement, phlebography was also employed to confirm or refute the presence of isotopic thrombi. The data indicate that the combination of dihydroergotamine and heparin is more effective than heparin or dihydroergotamine alone in preventing DVT.
Immediate and long term effects of instrumental dilation of the sphincter of Oddi.	Large dilators passed through the sphincter of Oddi do not prevent retained or recurrent common bile duct stones. Large dilators are more likely to cause postoperative pancreatitis than are small ones. Pancreatitis resulting from maximal dilation is more likely to be severe, and the patients are more likely to die from it.
Effectiveness of the partial velopalatine++ resection in obstructive apnea syndrome during sleep. Experience with 57 patients]	The aim of this study was to determine the result of partial resection of the soft palate (SPR) as a treatment of the obstructive apnea syndrome during sleep (OASS).
Myocardial ischemia--association with perioperative cardiac morbidity.	The development of ambulatory electrocardiographic recorders and analysers and the application of transesophageal echocardiography in the mid-1980's enabled investigators to quantify and describe the occurrence of silent as well as symptomatic ischemia in the perioperative period. Several technical advances which have recently occurred in ECG monitoring include the use of miniaturized digital computing equipment to store and analyze data. In addition, real time ST-segment analysis has become widely available on multicomponent monitors in both the operating room and intensive care units. The incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia depends on the patient population, the surgical procedure, and the monitoring technique used. Several studies in the early 1990's have shown that cardiac morbidity in patients undergoing major, noncardiac surgery is best predicted by postoperative myocardial ischemia, rather than tradition preoperative clinical predictors. Long duration postoperative ischemia may be the factor most significantly associated with adverse cardiac outcome. Postoperative pain, physiological and emotional stress may all combine to cause tachycardia, hypertension, increase in cardiac output, and fluid shifts which, in high risk patients, might result in subendocardial ischemia and eventual myocardial infarction. If postoperative myocardial ischemia is the cause of late postoperative myocardial infarction in patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery, then treatment of postoperative myocardial ischemia should reduce morbidity. In addition, reducing pain and stress and avoiding postoperative hypoxemia might prevent postoperative myocardial ischemia and minimize the need for extensive preoperative cardiac evaluation.
Preoperative evaluation of the cardiac patient for noncardiac surgery.	Perioperative cardiac events continue to represent a significant cause of morbidity in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. The evaluation of the high risk patient should begin with an assessment of the probability of coronary artery disease and exercise tolerance. Decisions to undergo further evaluation, including noninvasive testing, should be based upon the perioperative morbidity and mortality rate for the planned surgical procedure. In patients with significant coronary artery stenoses and a high probability of perioperative cardiac morbidity, coronary artery bypass grafting, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and preoperative optimization of hemodynamics in an intensive care unit have all been advocated as means of reducing risk.
Lateral femoral condyle fracture after endoscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.	A case is described in which a coronal plane fracture of the lateral femoral condyle propagated through the femoral tunnel 2 months after endoscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.
Situations and procedures with risk of bacterial endocarditis (intracardiac surgery excluded)]	Situations which can be considered at risk for infective endocarditis are those causing a bacteremia, which is necessary for the development of an endocarditis. Such situations can be identified by clinical studies evaluating the rate at which a bacteremia occurs after some procedures or because of lesions, then the risk of endocarditis after such a bacteremia. Without considering preexisting cardiac lesion and age, some situations seem to be at risk of subsequent endocarditis: acute bacterial infection for which antibiotherapy is necessary; procedures involving the mouth with the exception of superficial caries and bloodless supragingival prosthetic preparations; oesophageal dilatation, laser endo-oesophageal procedures, sclerosis of oesophageal varices; colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy for cancer lesions, gastrointestinal procedures on a potentially infected gastrointestinal tract (cholecystectomy, colectomy...); tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy; naso-tracheal intubation; instrumental procedures involving the ureter or kidney, and prostatic or urinary tract biopsies and surgery; procedures performed on infected skin. In cardiac patients at high risk, in addition to the above retrograde cholangiography, colonoscopy and rectosigmoidoscopy, lithotripsy. In these situations the risk of endocarditis is probably linked to the rate of bacteremia, the size of inoculum, and the bacteria, compared with spontaneous bacteremia without any procedure, where the inoculum is low and bacteria is considered as non pathogenic. A prophylaxis has to be discussed in such situations, which are probably involved in less than 10% of endocarditis.
Use of lithium oxybutyrate for improving results in the early post-operative period in lung cancer patients]	Application of antihypoxant drugs in postoperative period has been investigated. Lithium oxybutyrate was administered to 30 lung cancer patients before and shortly after operation. The results were compared with the data on 26 patients in control. Major characteristics, and, primarily, its antihypoxic protective effect have been evaluated. Lithium oxybutyrate administration is recommended in lung cancer patients during and shortly after surgery.
Anesthesia and general surgery in cardiac patients]	Close cooperation is necessary between the cardiologist and anesthesiologist preoperatively in order to identify the risks associated with a surgical procedure. This article reviews the various types of anesthesia and their effects on the cardiovascular system, in particular in relation to the category of cardiovascular disease. Accurate definition of the operative risk involves thorough evaluation of three essential parameters: cardiovascular status, the type of surgery and the type of anesthesia. These high-risk patients require management not only pre- and peroperatively, but also postoperatively, which is the period when the majority of complications occur. Mention is also made of drug interactions between anesthetic and cardiovascular agents.
Evaluation and treatment of iatrogenic ureteral injuries during obstetric and gynecologic operations for nonmalignant conditions.	Twenty-one iatrogenic ureteral injuries (20 patients) as a result of obstetric and gynecologic operations are presented. All injuries occurred during operations for benign conditions, such as Cesarean section and transabdominal hysterectomy. Pelvic adhesions as a result of repeat Cesarean section, markedly enlarging the uterus at the time of abdominal hysterectomy, and massive hemorrhage during surgical treatment were the main causes of ureteral injury. Nine ureters were transected (eight patients) and 12 ureters had postoperative obstruction. Fistulas occurred between the affected ureter and the vagina (five patients), uterus (one patient) and skin (one patient). The existence and the site of such a fistula is clearly demonstrated roentgenographically using intravenous urograms while a urethral catheter filled with contrast media is inserted into the bladder. Only a few ureteric injuries (two patients) were diagnosed and managed during the initial gynecologic operation. The remainder underwent delayed repair procedures. In most patients, the upper urinary tract was protected by percutaneous nephrostomy. The preferred operation for definitive correction was ureteroneocystostomy using the psoas hitch procedure. Direct localization by difficult dissection of the injured ureteral site was unnecessary with ureteroneocystostomy because this procedure bypasses the site of the injury to the ureter. This procedure can be applied in most injuries to the ureter, distal or proximal, which occur during gynecologic and obstetric operations. Renal salvage was achieved in all instances, with no operative or postoperative complications.
Effects of anaesthesia and recent surgery on diastolic function.	The aims were to determine the effects and the extent to which halothane anaesthesia affects diastolic function both immediately after and remote from surgery and to investigate whether the effect is due to alterations in loading conditions.
Conservative and individualized surgery for early squamous carcinoma of the vulva: the treatment of choice for stage I and II (T1-2N0-1M0) disease.	We studied the outcome of patients undergoing radical local excision (modified radical vulvectomy) with inguinal-femoral lymphadenectomy through separate groin incisions for stage I and II invasive squamous carcinoma of the vulva. The purpose was to determine whether less radical and more individualized surgery is consistent with local control and cure. We have reported previously our experience using radical local excision and modified radical vulvectomy in stage I disease (Obstet. Gynecol. 63, 155 (1984)) and with separate groin incisions (Obstet. Gynecol. 58, 574 (1981)). This current report expands our experience with stage I and adds stage II patients treated over the past decade. Seventy-four patients were studied retrospectively over the 5-year period ending in January 1990. Reviews of both patient charts and histopathology reports were correlated with recurrence and survival. Factors analyzed included FIGO stage and grade, histology, lesion size and depth of invasion, surgical procedure, radiotherapy, lymph node status, interval to and site of recurrence, and survival. Thirty-nine patients had stage I disease and 35 had stage II. The primary operation was a radical local excision (modified radical vulvectomy) in 56 patients and radical vulvectomy in 18 patients; 13 underwent ipsilateral inguinal-femoral lymphadenectomy and 58 bilateral lymphadenectomy, each through separate groin incisions. The survival of those treated conservatively (97 and 90% for stages I and II, respectively) is the same as those undergoing a radical vulvectomy (100 and 75% for stages I and II, respectively) with only the presence of inguinal-femoral lymph node metastases impacting negatively on survival. In the entire group, the survival for negative and positive nodes was 98 and 45%, respectively. In conclusion, conservative, modified, and individualized vulvectomy in both stage I and II disease is associated with the same outcome and survival as radical vulvectomy, and lymph node status is the most important prognostic factor.
Daily exercise improved blood pressure homeostasis of rats subjected to surgical stress.	The effect of daily spontaneous running on blood pressure homeostasis (BPH) was evaluated in 19 male and 13 female control rats and 7 male and 13 female daily spontaneous running rats subjected to surgery and subsequent repetitive hemodynamic disturbances. BPH was operationally defined as the ability to maintain mean arterial pressure above 60 mmHg during the experimental protocol. The length of time the rats maintained BPH was compared across males and females and trained and control groups. Significant sex (P = 0.01) and training (P = 0.05) effects were found. Females maintained homeostasis longer than males and trained longer than controls. Sex effects were not due to differences in the body mass. The mechanisms responsible for the higher resistance to deterioration of homeostasis merit further investigation.
The rational use of drains in surgery]	The authors report their clinical experience in 100 cases in which various kinds of drainage were used. They outline the best present techniques, when it is wished to apply this free drainage in the abdominal cavity, at the end of the operation.
Surgical stress and neuroendocrine responses in infants and children.	We studied the stress hormone response to surgery in 42 infants and children. Plasma levels of the stress hormones ACTH, cortisol, beta-endorphin and arginine-vasopressin (AVP) were determined on three occasions, i.e., one day before surgery, 60 to 90 minutes after skin closure and on the day after surgery (anesthesia by halothane and nitrous oxide). We observed an increase in the levels of both ACTH and cortisol in most patients after surgery, although there was no correlation between them. Beta-endorphin levels, on the other hand, rose after surgery and correlated significantly with ACTH in 30 patients. A steep rise in AVP levels was found in 84% of the subjects, a phenomenon that could not have been due only to osmotic or cardiovascular stimuli. The values of all the stress hormones declined and normalized on the day after surgery. We conclude that routine surgery in infancy or childhood induces a dramatic, albeit transient, stimulation of neuroendocrine stress hormones.
Evaluating cardiac risk in noncardiac surgery patients.	The cornerstones of the evaluation of cardiac risk in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery remain a thorough history and physical examination, and a resting electrocardiogram. However, new techniques to assess cardiac function allow more complete evaluation of high-risk patients.
Chylothorax: a complication of Dwyer's anterior instrumentation.	The authors report the development of an extensive right chylothorax several days after Dwyer's anterior instrumentation in a 6-year-old girl with a severe progressing infantile scoliosis. Instrumentation extended from T11 to L4 with removal of the tenth rib and with splitting of the diaphragm. The postoperative course was initially without any problems. However, respiratory distress on the tenth day after surgery was accompanied by mediastinal shift and the symptoms were relieved with aspiration of 600 ml of chyle from the right pleural cavity. The literature on this complication of chylothorax is reviewed; it has been observed in cardiothoracic surgery. The management of the case is reported in detail and methods of detection and treatment are discussed.
Intraocular fibrous proliferation as an incisional complication in pars plana vitrectomy.	We enucleated an eye of a 39-year-old white man four weeks after partial pars plana vitrectomy was carried out for removal of an amagnetic foreign body which failed. Vitreous clouding complicated the perforating injury. Histological findings included massive ingrowth of fibrous tissue into the vitreous space and along preretinal planes, total retinal detachment with degenerations, and localized proliferations of the pigmentary epithelium. All proliferations originated at the site of the sclerotomy incision.
How can pain of surgery be limited?]	Postoperative pain is due to direct stimulation of nociceptors by surgical trauma, and by algogenic substances produced by damaged tissues. Control of surgical pain can be obtained by limiting the extent of damage to tissues as well as the choice of incision. Endoscopic or video-assisted surgery is an effective mean to reduce pain caused by surgical approach. It is widely used in abdominal, thoracic, orthopaedic surgery, and urology. Many studies have shown a reduction of postoperative pain by laparoscopy for gynaecological surgery and cholecystectomy, but for other procedures the potential advantage of laparoscopic surgery has not yet been established. Conventional open surgery is still widely used. It has been suggested that transverse laparotomies are less painful than midline incisions, and that incision by electrocautery was less painful than with scalpel; but this has not been strictly established. Infiltration of wounds or nerves with local anaesthetic agents is a way of clinical research, which merits further investigation. Whether delicacy in surgery is capable of minimising pain by limiting tissue attrition remains to be demonstrated. Finally, drains and catheters, particularly the naso-gastric tube, which are responsible for pain, could be abandoned when not essential.
A cross-validated multifactorial index of perioperative risks in adults undergoing anaesthesia for non-cardiac surgery. Analysis of perioperative events in 26907 anaesthetic procedures.	To develop a severity index of anaesthetic risk that predicts relevant perioperative adverse events in adults.
Underuse of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis for general surgery patients: physician practices in the community hospital setting.	Venous thromboembolism is a common complication of surgery. Although surveys of physician self-reported practices have suggested near universal support for routine use of measures to prevent venous thromboembolism, medical record auditing has demonstrated underuse.
Comparison of 2 cricothyrotomy techniques: standard method versus rapid 4-step technique.	To compare the success rate, complication rate and time required for the rapid 4-step technique versus the standard technique for cricothyrotomy.
Isoflurane and sevoflurane augment norepinephrine responses to surgical noxious stimulation in humans.	Suppression of hypertensive response to noxious stimulation by volatile anesthetics may be a result of suppression of the stimulation-induced norepinephrine response or that of the cardiovascular response to catecholamines, or both. The suppression of the cardiovascular response is established, but that of norepinephrine response has not been confirmed. The authors hypothesized that the suppression of cardiovascular response but not that of norepinephrine response plays a major role in suppressing the noxious stimulation-induced hypertensive response by volatile anesthetics.
The Le Fort I-palatal split approach for skull base tumors: efficacy, complications, and outcome.	The Le Fort I, split-palate approach provides intraoral surgical access to a region of the midline skull base ranging from the upper clivus to the second cervical vertebra. Although this approach provides perhaps the largest exposure of all the intraoral techniques, there is little concerning it in the literature. Furthermore, there are no detailed descriptions of case histories, complications, and outcome. The purpose of this study was to evaluate this procedure's effectiveness and identify associated complications as well as outcome. Seven cases of patients who underwent eight skull base surgeries using the Le Fort I, split-palate approach were evaluated retrospectively. Particular attention was paid to postoperative occlusion, speech, mouth opening, infection, tumor recurrence, postoperative recovery period, and viability of maxillary bone and teeth. Follow-up ranged from 4 months to 7 years with a mean of 3.9 years. Pathologic diagnoses included three chordomas (two recurrent), one recurrent meningioma, one liposarcoma, one chondrosarcoma, and one inflammatory mass. One patient with chordoma underwent a second operation using the same approach. No deaths or major neurologic problems related to the procedure occurred. One patient who had known local metastases at the time of operation died several months after surgery. All other patients are still living. Duration of hospital stay ranged from 5 to 53 days with a mean of 25.4 days. Postoperative complications included one case of meningitis with an associated cerebrospinal fluid leak, three cases of malocclusion, one case of velopharyngeal insufficiency, and one extracranial soft-tissue infection. The case of meningitis was successfully treated by antibiotics. The malocclusions were corrected by conservative treatment. No problems with mouth opening or bone or tooth viability occurred. Tumor recurred in both cases in which malignancy was involved, whereas only one recurrence was noted among the benign cases. It is concluded that the Le Fort I-palatal split technique is a relatively safe and effective means for approaching midline skull base tumors. Several modifications to the surgical protocol and surgical technique are detailed herein.
Critical incident reports.	We describe a retrospective analysis of critical incident reports in two teaching hospitals. We included significant observations, involving unsafe practices during cardio-pulmonary resuscitation intensive care management and during anesthesia. Of the 143 critical incidents reported, 87% did not lead to negative out-come, out of these 13% were reports on deaths of patient resuscitated by CPR team or emergency department, underwent surgery, and or managed in the intensive care unit. Human errors and lack of communications were common factors for the majority of the incidents. Wrong drug labeling and irresponsible behavior were the most frequent among the human errors. The analysis aimed to regularize the method of reporting and also to determine the causes of complications, offer solutions and prevent occurrence of such incidents in the future.
Surgical site infections.	The New CDC-definitions for surveillance of surgical site infections (1992) take into account 3 classes of surgical site infections (SSI): superficial and deep incisional SSI, and organ/space SSI. The most important host-related risk factors for development of SSI are advanced age, morbid obesity, disease severity, an ASA score > 2, prolonged preoperative hospital stay, and infection at distal sites. Microbial contamination of the surgical site occurs mainly during the surgical intervention. Although exogenous contamination may be of concern, especially in clean operations, most surgical site infections are caused by microorganisms of the patient's own commensal flora. SSI rates vary according to the type and duration of the surgical procedure and the skill of the surgeon. Proper surgical technique is the most important factor in the prevention of SSI. Modification of host risk factors should be attempted whenever possible. In addition, adequate protocols for antimicrobial prophylaxis with antibiotics should be followed. Surveillance of surgical site infections is probably beneficial for SSI prevention.
