Differences in breast shape preferences between plastic surgeons and patients seeking breast augmentation.	There has been little discussion in the published literature regarding breast shape preferences. This study was conducted to ascertain previously undocumented differences in breast shape preferences between plastic surgeons and patients seeking breast augmentation, with respect to upper-pole contour. Sixty-six respondents, grouped into three cohort categories (plastic surgeons, breast augmentation patients, and lay people), were asked to evaluate a series of 12 nonptotic breast profiles representing a range of upper-pole contours. Five profiles exhibited convex upper-pole contours, five exhibited concave contours, and two exhibited upper poles with flat slopes. A five-point Likert-type scale was used to rate attractiveness, naturalness, how close the shape was to each respondent's personal ideal, and how close the shape was to what the respondent believed was our society's ideal. Statistical comparisons were made among the three cohorts. The plastic surgeon cohort (n = 11) rated concave upper-pole contours significantly higher than did the patient cohort (n = 13) for attractiveness, naturalness, and personal ideal (p < 0.01). For convex contours, the plastic surgeon cohort gave significantly lower scores than did the patient cohort (p < 0.01). The lay category (n = 42) demonstrated preferences intermediate between those of the other groups. There are no known studies in the literature documenting the breast shape preferences of plastic surgeons and their patients. This study suggests that plastic surgeons and patients seeking breast augmentation may have drastically different images in mind regarding what constitutes an attractive, natural, and ideal breast shape. These findings have potential implications for patient treatment and satisfaction.
Plastic surgery on children with Down syndrome: parents' perceptions of physical, personal, and social functioning.	Plastic facial surgery is being carried out on children with Down syndrome with the objective of improving these children's physical, personal, and social functioning. This study investigated the effect of such surgery on parents' perceptions, both of the current status of their children's functioning and of changes in this functioning. Perceptions of parents of children who had undergone this surgery in Israel in the years 1982 and 1983 were compared with perceptions of parents of children who had not undergone the operation. This comparison produced little evidence for the positive impact of the surgery on parents' perceptions of their children's physical, personal, and social functioning.
Teachers' attitudes towards plastic surgery in children with Down's syndrome.	The problem of whether to improve on the physical appearance of children with Down's syndrome by means of plastic surgery is a much debated question which involves bio-ethical and ideological concepts. In this research, the opinions of a group (n = 132) of Italian elementary and junior school teachers are investigated on the basis of a questionnaire. Data are analysed through the application of log-linear models, and parameter estimates are calculated for each response category and interactions between response categories and types of teachers. Results show a greater acceptance of children with Down's syndrome as they are by people who have daily experience of them and who can get to know them better from all points of view. On the other hand, plastic surgery for children with Down's syndrome is considered with more favour by people who are less psychologically involved with them.
Long-term patient satisfaction following reduction mammoplasty.	This study documents that reduction mammoplasty is a procedure with excellent long-term patient satisfaction. This has not been previously well documented. One hundred nine patients after reduction mammoplasty were surveyed by questionnaire. Results of the questionnaire indicated that the majority of patients were pleased with their breast size and breast shape. The majority had equal-sized breasts. Most were comfortable after surgery and had an easier time buying clothes. Ninety-four percent of patients would have the procedure again. Multiple techniques for reduction mammoplasty were used and there were no significant differences with the exception of a change in nipple sensation. Nipple sensation was best preserved by using the inferior pedicle technique.
What's normal? Influencing women's perceptions of normal genitalia: an experiment involving exposure to modified and nonmodified images.	Examine women's perceptions of what is 'normal' and 'desirable' in female genital appearance.
Effects of sociodemographic factors and maternal anxiety on preoperative anxiety in children.	To investigate the effects of sociodemographic factors and maternal anxiety levels on behaviour in children undergoing surgery.
The psychiatric assessment of the patient requesting facial surgery.	Recent years have witnessed an increasing demand for cosmetic or reconstructive facial surgery. This paper addresses the pre-operative psychiatric assessment of the patient requesting facial surgery. Most patients adjust well to surgery and appreciate and accept the outcome. The psychiatrist who helps to screen difficult cases needs specific skills and must understand the body image issues involved. The psychiatrist needs to evaluate the patient's motivations, expectations and understanding of the risks and implications of surgery. Potential problem patients are described, including the minimal defect patient, the patient with secondary gain from the deformity, the older patient, the patient in crisis, the polysurgical patient, the paranoid patient, the schizophrenic patient, and the male patient. Guidelines for evaluating the patient need to be applied flexibly. The psychiatrist must communicate with the surgeon to appreciate clearly the concerns the surgeon has about each patient.
Patient information and patient preparation in orthognathic surgery. The role of an information brochure a medical audit study.	In a retrospective study on 166 patients who had undergone orthognathic surgery, the influence of an information brochure on patient information, satisfaction and dissatisfaction was investigated. Although the use of an information manual was appreciated by the patients and can be recommended, its influence on patient preparation for surgery was poorer than was expected. Verbal information by effective communication between the surgeon and the patient remains the key to patient preparation.
Assessment and support of sexual functioning in 458 men seeking genitourinary reconstructive surgery.	Horton and associates focused on an aspect of genital reconstructive surgery: restored or improved sexual functioning. The availability a physician skilled in the application of modern sexual counseling has been demonstrated in a group of 458 men to assist in maximizing the benefit of such surgery on patients' sexual and coital success. The sexual therapist was a valued member of the team approach to patient care. The necessity of psychiatric assessment for some was apparent, as it would be in any population of patients seeking plastic or corrective surgery. The association of the sexual therapist with various mental health professionals was important. The recognition of mental and emotional difficulties was primary, but the further skills the sexual therapist brought by application of sexual therapy techniques was also important. Men disadvantaged sexually by genital abnormality gained from a sensitive and educational approach, one that included their partners in the context of open communication and offered specific suggestions for their own specific needs and situations. Sexual therapy techniques and skills instruction added a vital dimension to the complete care of these men seeking correction of genital abnormalities. The techniques and approaches themselves were fairly straightforward and simple, as well as fairly standardized. Described by Masters and Johnson, Jones and others, they were clearly effective in enhancing comfort with sexuality and less pressured approaches to sexual behavior, and ultimately in enhancing sexual functioning itself.
The psychosocial dimensions of oral and maxillofacial surgery: a critical review of the literature.	The validity of the literature on the relationships between psychosocial factors and surgery for facial esthetics is diminished by theoretical bias, changing cultural values, vague measuring criteria, and inadequate experimental designs. Many persons who seek cosmetic surgery have psychiatric diagnoses and may experience postoperative emotional disturbances. Almost all patients report long-term satisfaction postoperatively. Patients who are treated by oral surgeons appear to have fewer emotional problems than those treated by plastic surgeons.
The male aesthetic patient.	Just like their female counterparts, men are increasingly turning to facial plastic surgery, but male patients bring to the surgeon an array of unexplored motivations and expectations along with unresolved emotional conflicts. These feelings of ambivalence, emotional instability, and sometimes even hostility toward the surgeon make the male aesthetic patient more of a psychological risk than the female aesthetic patient. This article focuses on how the surgeon can recognize and control the male patient's emotional disturbances and, consequently, better serve his patient and protect himself.
The psychological contribution of nipple addition in breast reconstruction.	Two groups of consecutive patients from two different plastic surgical practice populations were evaluated to determine psychosocial differences between those who underwent nipple-areola reconstruction in addition to breast reconstruction (N = 33) versus those who did not undergo nipple-areola reconstruction in addition to breast reconstruction (N = 26). Psychological assessment consisted of a standardized symptom inventory (Brief Symptom Inventory) and a specially designed self-report questionnaire investigating reactions unique to surgeries for breast cancer and breast reconstruction. Both groups were equivalent sociodemographically, with the exception of age, where the nipple-added group was significantly younger (P = 0.035) than the nipple-not-added group. The nipple-added group reported significantly greater satisfaction with breast reconstruction with regard to overall satisfaction (P = 0.004), satisfaction with size (P = 0.02), satisfaction with softness (P = 0.0004), sexual sensitivity (P = 0.006), and satisfaction with nude appearance (P = 0.02). Of the nine scales of clinical symptomatology on the Brief Symptom Inventory, the nipple-added group showed more increased symptoms on seven of the nine. The nipple-added group was significantly higher on two of these scales, namely, paranoid ideation (P = 0.009) and anxiety (P = 0.03).
Dissatisfaction among women with "thunder thighs" undergoing closed aspirative lipoplasty.	In our practice, we have uncovered a small series of female patients with "thunder thighs" who were dissatisfied with results of closed aspirative lipoplasty. The common problem appears to be unrealistic expectations. These patients expected a change in body habitus. This article reiterates the need for careful patient selection and preoperative information of what the procedure can and cannot accomplish.
Reduction mammoplasty: some observations and reflections.	The ideal procedure for reduction mammoplasty should: (a) create a breast of desired size with an aesthetically pleasing shape; (b) leave small "invisible" scars; (c) preserve the nursing capacity; (d) leave the erotic sensibility intact; and (e) have no postoperative complications. Most of the unfavorable results can be avoided by careful preoperative planning and restrictive patient selection, with special attention being given to very young patients and to those with unrealistic expectations.
The surgical treatment of microtia: a long-term review of 17 patients.	Fourteen children were reviewed approximately 3 1/2 years after surgical reconstruction of the pinna had been completed. Seven had unilateral microtia and seven bilateral microtia, including four caused by thalidomide. Using objective criteria the cosmetic results were disappointing. Treatment entailed protracted hospitalisation, numerous operations and produced adverse emotional and educational sequelae. Nearly all the children covered their ears by growing their hair long. Attempts by the ENT department to improve hearing in the children with bilateral microtia had been disappointing. Three other children who were not treated although they had been referred for surgery were also reviewed. The problems of reconstructive surgery for microtia and the indications for treatment are discussed. It is suggested that reconstruction may be inadvisable for children who have bilateral anotia or associated deformities and who have an unstable family background.
Psychological effects of breast reconstruction after radical mastectomy]	We describe the effects of the breast reconstruction after radical mastectomy for cancer. The psychological advantages are compared to the post-mastectomy status in 102 patients.
A psychological study of patients seeking augmentation mammaplasty.	Data from interviews with 64 women who were to undergo or already had undergone an augmentation mammaplasty were compared with data from a control group of 28 women. Great differences existed between the groups, mainly with regard to personality test data and childhood milieu. The women operated on were in general less certain of themselves and felt less feminine. These factors seem to be a sufficient basis for the appearance of the problem. Cultural norms are obviously also important but seem to influence all women in the same way.
Self-presentation can be hazardous to your health: impression management and health risk.	People's concerns with how others perceive and evaluate them can lead to behaviors that increase the risk of illness and injury. This article reviews evidence that self-presentation motives play a role in several health problems, including HIV infection; skin cancer; malnutrition and eating disorders; alcohol, tobacco, and drug use; injuries and accidental death; failure to exercise; and acne. The implications of a self-presentational perspective for research in health psychology, the promotion of healthful behaviors, and health care delivery are discussed.
