Fugu rubripes and human survival motor neuron genes: structural and functional similarities in comparative genome studies.	The compactness of the Fugu rubripes (Fugu) genome has supported its use in comparative genome analysis. Nevertheless, as Fugu is distinct evolution-wise from humans, it is essential to determine the similarity between a Fugu gene and its human counterpart to confirm its potential for comparative genome analysis. We cloned and analyzed the Fugu survival motor neuron gene (fsmn) for similarities with human SMN gene (huSMN). The Fugu genome has a single fsmn that is 13.4 times smaller than huSMN. fsmn and huSMN are highly similar in their genome organization and tissue expression patterns. The functional domains of the Fugu smn and human SMN molecules are also highly conserved. In human MCF-7 cells, expression of fsmn protein resulted in the formation of "gems" in the cytoplasm and nucleus, similar to observations reported for huSMN protein. In these cells, fsmn RNA was also processed correctly and produced alternatively spliced transcripts like huSMN2. These findings indicate close structural and functional similarities between fsmn and huSMN, suggesting that regulation of the two genes may also be similar and supporting the use of fsmn in comparative genome studies for the identification of functional regulatory elements of huSMN.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) after conception using gametes from anonymous donors: recommendations for the future.	To discuss the diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy in a child conceived using donor gametes.
Spinal muscular atrophy: a time for screening.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder caused by mutations in the survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene, affecting approximately 1 in 10,000 live births. Even though a specific therapy for SMA is not currently available, a newborn screening test may allow the child to be enrolled in a clinical trial before irreversible neuronal loss occurs and enable patients to obtain more proactive treatments. Until an effective treatment is found to cure or arrest the progression of the disease, prevention of new cases through carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis becomes extremely important.
Intravenous scAAV9 delivery of a codon-optimized SMN1 sequence rescues SMA mice.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is the most common genetic disease leading to infant mortality. This neuromuscular disorder is caused by the loss or mutation of the telomeric copy of the 'survival of motor neuron' (Smn) gene, termed SMN1. Loss of SMN1 leads to reduced SMN protein levels, inducing degeneration of motor neurons (MN) and progressive muscle weakness and atrophy. To date, SMA remains incurable due to the lack of a method to deliver therapeutically active molecules to the spinal cord. Gene therapy, consisting of reintroducing SMN1 in MNs, is an attractive approach for SMA. Here we used postnatal day 1 systemic injection of self-complementary adeno-associated virus (scAAV9) vectors carrying a codon-optimized SMN1 sequence and a chimeric intron placed downstream of the strong phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) promoter (SMNopti) to overexpress the human SMN protein in a mouse model of severe SMA. Survival analysis showed that this treatment rescued 100% of the mice, increasing life expectancy from 27 to over 340 days (median survival of 199 days) in mice that normally survive about 13 days. The systemic scAAV9 therapy mediated complete correction of motor function, prevented MN death and rescued the weight loss phenotype close to normal. This study reports the most efficient rescue of SMA mice to date after a single intravenous injection of an optimized SMN-encoding scAAV9, highlighting the considerable potential of this method for the treatment of human SMA.
Ultrasound evaluation of fetal movements in pregnancies at risk for severe spinal muscular atrophy.	We studied spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) during human development to identify possible delays or alterations in fetal movements detectable by ultrasound. We evaluated 29 pregnancies at risk for severe SMA performing 2D-ultrasound around 11-14 weeks, prior to prenatal molecular testing of the SMN1 gene. We charted the occurrence of generalized body movements, isolated movements of arms and legs, head movements, startle and hiccup. Fetuses were diagnosed as healthy (n=12), carriers (n=10) or affected (n=7) according to the SMN1 molecular testing results obtained. SMN2 copies were also tested in the seven affected fetuses, six of whom showed two SMN2 copies and one a unique SMN2 copy. The movements under study were observed in all recordings, regardless of group and the SMN2 copies. At the gestational age examined, we did not observe a qualitative early limitation of movements in fetuses with SMA, even in cases predicted to develop a severe neonatal form.
Large-scale population screening for spinal muscular atrophy: clinical implications.	To determine the frequency of SMN1 deletion carriers in the Israeli population and to assess the feasibility of population screening for spinal muscular atrophy.
A new model to study spinal muscular atrophy: neurite degeneration and cell death is counteracted by BCL-X(L) Overexpression in motoneurons.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a motoneuron disorder characterized by deletions or specific mutations in the Survival Motor Neuron gene (SMN). SMN is ubiquitously expressed and has a general role in the assembly of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) and pre-mRNA splicing requirements. However, in motoneuron axons SMN deficiency results in inappropriate levels of certain transcripts in the distal axon, suggesting that the specific susceptibility of motoneurons to SMN deficiency is related to a specialized function in these cells. Although mouse models of SMA have been generated and are useful for in vivo and in vitro studies, the limited number of isolated MNs that could be obtained from them makes it difficult to perform biochemical, genetic and pharmacological approaches. We describe here an in vitro model of isolated embryonic mouse motoneurons in which the cellular levels of endogenous SMN are reduced. These cells show neurite degeneration and cell death after several days of SMN knockdown. We found that the over-expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-x(L) into motoneurons rescues these cells from the phenotypic changes observed. This result demonstrates that Bcl-x(L) signaling could be a possible pharmacological target of SMA therapeutics.
Genetic and expression studies of SMN2 gene in Russian patients with spinal muscular atrophy type II and III.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA type I, II and III) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder caused by mutations in the survival motor neuron gene (SMN1). SMN2 is a centromeric copy gene that has been characterized as a major modifier of SMA severity. SMA type I patients have one or two SMN2 copies while most SMA type II patients carry three SMN2 copies and SMA III patients have three or four SMN2 copies. The SMN1 gene produces a full-length transcript (FL-SMN) while SMN2 is only able to produce a small portion of the FL-SMN because of a splice mutation which results in the production of abnormal SMNΔ7 mRNA.
Clinical, electrophysiological and molecular study of 26 chilean patients with spinal muscular atrophy]	Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder affecting the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord resulting in muscle weakness and atrophy, linked to the homozygous disruption of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene. It is the leading genetic cause of infant death. It has been classified into three types based on the severity of symptoms. Type I SMA is the most severe form with death within the first 2 years of life. Type II and III SMA patients show intermediate and mild forms of the disorder.
Of SMN in mice and men: a therapeutic opportunity.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease that predominantly affects motor neurons, resulting in progressive muscular atrophy and weakness. SMA arises due to insufficient survival motor neuron (SMN) protein levels as a result of homozygous disruption of the SMN1 gene. SMN upregulation is a promising and potent treatment strategy for this currently incurable condition. In this issue of the JCI, two independent research groups report novel observations in mouse models of severe SMA that provide hope that this approach will afford meaningful benefit to individuals with SMA.
Postsymptomatic restoration of SMN rescues the disease phenotype in a mouse model of severe spinal muscular atrophy.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common neuromuscular disorder in humans. In fact, it is the most frequently inherited cause of infant mortality, being the result of mutations in the survival of motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene that reduce levels of SMN protein. Restoring levels of SMN protein in individuals with SMA is perceived to be a viable therapeutic option, but the efficacy of such a strategy once symptoms are apparent has not been determined. We have generated mice harboring an inducible Smn rescue allele and used them in a model of SMA to investigate the effects of turning on SMN expression at different time points during the course of the disease. Restoring SMN protein even after disease onset was sufficient to reverse neuromuscular pathology and effect robust rescue of the SMA phenotype. Importantly, our findings also indicated that there was a therapeutic window of opportunity from P4 through P8 defined by the extent of neuromuscular synapse pathology and the ability of motor neurons to respond to SMN induction, following which restoration of the protein to the organism failed to produce therapeutic benefit. Nevertheless, our results suggest that even in severe SMA, timely reinstatement of the SMN protein may halt the progression of the disease and serve as an effective postsymptomatic treatment.
The zinc finger protein ZPR1 is a potential modifier of spinal muscular atrophy.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by mutation of the Survival Motor Neurons 1 (SMN1) gene and is characterized by degeneration of spinal motor neurons. The severity of SMA is primarily influenced by the copy number of the SMN2 gene. Additional modifier genes that lie outside the SMA locus exist and one gene that could modify SMA is the Zinc Finger Protein (ZPR1) gene. To test the significance of ZPR1 downregulation in SMA, we examined the effect of reduced ZPR1 expression in mice with mild and severe SMA. We report that the reduced ZPR1 expression causes increase in the loss of motor neurons, hypermyelination in phrenic nerves, increase in respiratory distress and disease severity and reduces the lifespan of SMA mice. The deficiency of SMN-containing sub-nuclear bodies correlates with the severity of SMA. ZPR1 is required for the accumulation of SMN in sub-nuclear bodies. Further, we report that ZPR1 overexpression increases levels of SMN and promotes accumulation of SMN in sub-nuclear bodies in SMA patient fibroblasts. ZPR1 stimulates neurite growth and rescues axonal growth defects in SMN-deficient spinal cord neurons from SMA mice. These data suggest that the severity of disease correlates negatively with ZPR1 levels and ZPR1 may be a protective modifier of SMA.
PPP4R2 regulates neuronal cell differentiation and survival, functionally cooperating with SMN.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a human disease caused by reduced levels of the Survival of Motor Neuron (SMN) protein, leading to progressive loss of motor neurons and muscular paralysis. However, it is still not very clear why these cells are specifically sensitive to SMN levels. Therefore, understanding which proteins may functionally interact with SMN in a neuronal context is a very important issue. PPP4R2, a regulatory subunit of the protein phosphatase 4 (PPP4C), was previously identified as a functional interactor of the SMN complex, but has never been studied in neuronal cells. In this report, we show that PPP4R2 displays a very dynamic intracellular localization in mouse and rat neuronal cell lines and in rat primary hippocampal neurons, strongly correlating with differentiation. More importantly, we found that PPP4R2 loss of function impairs the differentiation of the mouse motor-neuronal cell line NSC-34, an effect that can be counteracted by SMN overexpression. In addition, we show that PPP4R2 may specifically protect NSC-34 cells from DNA damage-induced apoptosis and that it is capable to functionally cooperate with SMN in this activity. Our data indicate that PPP4R2 is a SMN partner that may modulate the differentiation and survival of neuronal cells.
Spinal muscular atrophy: manifestations and management.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a homozygous deletion in the SMN1 gene and is manifested by loss of the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord. Classifications of the disorder are based on age of onset and the patient's level of function. Scoliosis and hip subluxation or dislocation are two musculoskeletal manifestations associated with SMA. Severity of scoliosis correlates with age at presentation. Bracing has been unsuccessful in halting curve progression and may interfere with respiratory effort. Early onset scoliosis associated with SMA has been successfully treated with growing rod constructs, and posterior spinal fusion can be used in older children. Hip subluxations and dislocations are best treated nonsurgically if the patient reports no pain because a high rate of recurrent dislocation has been reported with surgical intervention.
Homozygous SMN1 exons 1-6 deletion: pitfalls in genetic counseling and general recommendations for spinal muscular atrophy molecular diagnosis.	We report on a rare homozygous intragenic deletion encompassing exons 1-6 of the SMN1 gene in a patient with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) born into a consanguineous family. This exceptional configuration induced misinterpretation of the molecular defect involved in this patient, who was first reported as having a classic SMN1 exon 7 deletion. This case points out the possible pitfalls in molecular diagnosis of SMA in affected patients and their relatives: exploration of the SMN1 exon 7 (c.840C/T alleles) may be disturbed by several non-pathological or pathological variants around the SMN1 exon 7. In order to accurately describe the molecular defect in an SMA-affected patient, we propose to apply the Human Genome Variation Society nomenclature. This widely accepted nomenclature would improve the reporting of the molecular defect observed in SMA patients and thus would avoid the commonly used but imprecise terminology "absence of SMN1 exon 7."
Research on neurodegenerative diseases using induced pluripotent stem cells.	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) are derived from somatic cells. These somatic cells have had their gene expression experimentally reprogrammed to an embryonic stem cell-like pluripotent state, gaining the capacity to differentiate various cell types in the three embryonic germ layers. Thus, iPSC technology makes it possible to obtain neuronal cells from any human cells. iPSC can be generated from various kinds of somatic cells and from patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Disease modelling using iPSC technology would elucidate the pathogenesis of such diseases and contribute to related drug discoveries. In this review, we discuss the recent advances in iPSC technology as well as its potential applications.
A multi-exon-skipping detection assay reveals surprising diversity of splice isoforms of spinal muscular atrophy genes.	Humans have two near identical copies of Survival Motor Neuron gene: SMN1 and SMN2. Loss of SMN1 coupled with the predominant skipping of SMN2 exon 7 causes spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a neurodegenerative disease. SMA patient cells devoid of SMN1 provide a powerful system to examine splicing pattern of various SMN2 exons. Until now, similar system to examine splicing of SMN1 exons was unavailable. We have recently screened several patient cell lines derived from various diseases, including SMA, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Batten disease. Here we report a Batten disease cell line that lacks functional SMN2, as an ideal system to examine pre-mRNA splicing of SMN1. We employ a multiple-exon-skipping detection assay (MESDA) to capture simultaneously skipping of multiple exons. Our results show surprising diversity of splice isoforms and reveal novel splicing events that include skipping of exon 4 and co-skipping of three adjacent exons of SMN. Contrary to the general belief, MESDA captured oxidative-stress induced skipping of SMN1 exon 5 in several cell types, including non-neuronal cells. We further demonstrate that the predominant SMN2 exon 7 skipping induced by oxidative stress is modulated by a combinatorial control that includes promoter sequence, endogenous context, and the weak splice sites. We also show that an 8-mer antisense oligonucleotide blocking a recently described GC-rich sequence prevents SMN2 exon 7 skipping under the conditions of oxidative stress. Our findings bring new insight into splicing regulation of an essential housekeeping gene linked to neurodegeneration and infant mortality.
SMN1 gene duplications are more frequent in patients with progressive muscular atrophy.	Survival Motor Neuron 1 (SMN1) is a causative gene for autosomal recessive infantile and juvenile proximal spinal muscular atrophy. SMN1 duplications have recently been found to increase susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The role of centromeric SMN copy (SMN2) has been postulated in progressive muscular atrophy (PMA). The aim of this study was to analyse the SMN1 and SMN2 copy number variations in patients with PMA. SMN1 and SMN2 genotype was studied in 87 patients with PMA, diagnosed at the Department of Neurology, Medical University of Warsaw, between 1992 and 2012 and in 600 healthy controls. Results demonstrated that three copies of SMN1 were found in 8.1% of PMA patients and in 24% of PMA patients with disease duration above 48 months compared to 4.6% of the general population. Patients with three SMN1 copies had a limb onset, lower median age of onset and longer disease duration compared to patients with two SMN1 copies. There were no significant differences in the SMN2 copy numbers. In conclusion, the increased copy number of SMN1 may be a susceptibility factor to PMA and influence the clinical phenotype.
Celecoxib increases SMN and survival in a severe spinal muscular atrophy mouse model via p38 pathway activation.	The loss of functional Survival Motor Neuron (SMN) protein due to mutations or deletion in the SMN1 gene causes autosomal recessive neurodegenerative spinal muscle atrophy (SMA). A potential treatment strategy for SMA is to upregulate the amount of SMN protein originating from the highly homologous SMN2 gene, compensating in part for the absence of the functional SMN1 gene. We have previously shown that in vitro activation of the p38 pathway stabilizes and increases SMN mRNA levels leading to increased SMN protein levels. In this report, we explore the impact of the p38 activating, FDA-approved, blood brain barrier permeating compound celecoxib on SMN levels in vitro and in a mouse model of SMA. We demonstrate a significant induction of SMN protein levels in human and mouse neuronal cells upon treatment with celecoxib. We show that activation of the p38 pathway by low doses celecoxib increases SMN protein in a HuR protein-dependent manner. Furthermore, celecoxib treatment induces SMN expression in brain and spinal cord samples of wild-type mice in vivo. Critically, celecoxib treatment increased SMN levels, improved motor function and enhanced survival in a severe SMA mouse model. Our results identify low dose celecoxib as a potential new member of the SMA therapeutic armamentarium. 
Detection of homozygous deletions in spinal muscular atrophy with genomic DNA sequencing]	To detect homozygous deletions of survival motor neuron (SMN) gene with genomic DNA sequencing, and to assess the value of genetic testing for the diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).
Solving the puzzle of spinal muscular atrophy: what are the missing pieces?	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive, lower motor neuron disease. Clinical heterogeneity is pervasive: three infantile (type I-III) and one adult-onset (type IV) forms are recognized. Type I SMA is the most common genetic cause of death in infancy and accounts for about 50% of all patients with SMA. Most forms of SMA are caused by mutations of the survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene. A second gene that is 99% identical to SMN1 (SMN2) is located in the same region. The only functionally relevant difference between the two genes identified to date is a C → T transition in exon 7 of SMN2, which determines an alternative spliced isoform that predominantly excludes exon 7. Thus, SMN2 genes do not produce sufficient full length SMN protein to prevent the onset of the disease. Since the identification of the causative mutation, biomedical research of SMA has progressed by leaps and bounds: from clues on the function of SMN protein, to the development of different models of the disease, to the identification of potential treatments, some of which are currently in human trials. The aim of this review is to elucidate the current state of knowledge, emphasizing how close we are to the solution of the puzzle that is SMA, and, more importantly, to highlight the missing pieces of this puzzle. Filling in these gaps in our knowledge will likely accelerate the development and delivery of efficient treatments for SMA patients and be a prerequisite towards achieving our final goal, the cure of SMA.
Deletion of atrophy enhancing genes fails to ameliorate the phenotype in a mouse model of spinal muscular atrophy.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disease causing degeneration of lower motor neurons and muscle atrophy. One therapeutic avenue for SMA is targeting signaling pathways in muscle to ameliorate atrophy. Muscle Atrophy F-box, MAFbx, and Muscle RING Finger 1, MuRF1, are muscle-specific ubiquitin ligases upregulated in skeletal and cardiac muscle during atrophy. Homozygous knock-out of MAFbx or MuRF1 causes muscle sparing in adult mice subjected to atrophy by denervation. We wished to determine whether blockage of the major muscle atrophy pathways by deletion of MAFbx or MuRF1 in a mouse model of SMA would improve the phenotype. Deletion of MAFbx in the Δ7 SMA mouse model had no effect on the weight and the survival of the mice while deletion of MuRF1 was deleterious. MAFbx(-/-)-SMA mice showed a significant alteration in fiber size distribution tending towards larger fibers. In skeletal and cardiac tissue MAFbx and MuRF1 transcripts were upregulated whereas MuRF2 and MuRF3 levels were unchanged in Δ7 SMA mice. We conclude that deletion of the muscle ubiquitin ligases does not improve the phenotype of a Δ7 SMA mouse. Furthermore, it seems unlikely that the beneficial effect of HDAC inhibitors is mediated through inhibition of MAFbx and MuRF1. 
