Survivor guilt in cancer patients: a pastoral perspective.	Defines survivor guilt and relates it to cancer patients' issues of meaning-making, feelings of responsibility, and need for restitution. Notes the spiritual dimension of survivor guilt and indicates ways in which pastoral caregivers might serve as both learners and as spiritual guides in meeting these existential factors implicit in survivor guilt phenomena.
A multimodal support group with Hispanic traumatic brain injury survivors.	(a) To design and pilot a culturally sensitive and neuropsychologically informed support group addressing barriers to emotional, social, and vocational adjustment among high-level functioning Hispanic/Latino TBI survivors. (b) To determine efficacy through outcome measures.
Amnestic state in a Holocaust survivor patient: psychogenic versus neurological basis.	Differentiation between psychogenic and organic amnesia is sometimes quite difficult. This paper focuses on the psychogenic and organic components of a complex case of amnesia rooted in remote and prolonged traumatic stress and manifested under circumstances evoking dissociated memories. The Transient Global Amnesia (TGA) of a concentration camp survivor who developed sudden amnesia during a psychiatric intake interview was clearly triggered by the pressure of repressed Holocaust memories. The importance of distinguishing between TGA and dissociative amnesia is emphasized, and the role of psychological upset as a precipitant in TGA is stressed.
Diagnosis of Holocaust survivors and their children.	Survivors of the Holocaust and their children have tended not to be given formal diagnoses by their therapists. There seem to be a series of reasons: the events themselves were so terrible that it seems inappropriate to focus on the response, diagnosis implies comparing the condition with responses to other more minor traumata, the process of diagnosis is dehumanizing, the evil nature of the perpetrator is neglected, therapists feel it distances them from their patients, and it ignores the extraordinary achievements of many survivors who cope and live full lives. The DSM and its five axes are proposed as a suitable diagnostic vehicle, and Holocaust survivors with serious symptoms will tend to be diagnosed as chronic PTSD, child survivors as complex PTSD often with associated personality disorders, and second generation may well have identity problems and personality disorders. Only by using diagnoses can comparable research be carried out.
Advantages of heterogeneous therapy groups in the psychotherapy of the traumatically abused: treating the problem as well as the person.	The authors combine a social-constructionist perspective with a psychodynamic one in discussing the problem of trauma and its treatment. They argue that effective treatment of traumatic physical, sexual, and psychological abuse must do more than alleviate the pain of the sufferer. Factors that cause and perpetuate abuse must be addressed by the abused person in conjunction with other nontraumatized persons who may have been abusive or passive in the face of abuse. An argument is made for heterogeneous therapy groups as a context for this to occur.
Is resuscitation after traumatic suicide attempt a futile effort? A five-year review at a level I trauma center.	A retrospective analysis of all traumatic suicide attempts at a Level I regional trauma center between 1990 and 1994 was performed. Data were obtained from the trauma registry, charts, computer data, and telephone interviews. Age, gender, mechanism of injury, and prior mental status were noted. Repeat suicide attempts/ideation, postinjury employment status, and subsequent deaths were recorded. Nontraumatic attempts and successful suicides not transported to the hospital were excluded. Ninety-one patients (71 males and 20 females) with attempted suicide were identified. Average patient age was 33.6 years. Method of attempted suicide and deaths by that method were: firearms (n = 55 attempts/36 deaths), sharp instrumentation (n = 22 attempts/0 deaths), and others. Mortality by firearms and all other mechanisms were 65.0 per cent and 8.3 per cent, respectively. Fifty-two patients survived to be discharged from the hospital. Follow-up data were available for 38 patients with a mean follow-up interval of 53.6 months. Three subsequent deaths were confirmed. The mortality from the index attempt was 42.9 per cent. Mortality by firearms was significantly higher than by all other mechanisms. Patients with chronic mental illness had a significantly higher incidence of subsequent suicide attempts/ideation and unemployment. Confirmed mortality at follow-up was only eight per cent (mean, 53.6 months), and all were patients with chronic mental illness.
Stories of illness and trauma survival: liberation or repression?	This paper aims to expand upon recent research addressing the relationship between power and cultural stories of illness. It does this by exploring the stories of 'healing' and 'survival' produced by people who have undergone traumatic experiences such as childhood sexual abuse and a HIV positive diagnosis. The liberating and/or repressive potential of cultural stories of illness are defined in accordance with their capacity to produce 'minimal' or more 'reflective' selves, as characterised by Lasch [Lasch, C., 1985. The Minimal Self. Picador, London.] and Giddens [Giddens, A., 1991. Modernity and Self-identity: Self and Society in the Later Modern Age. Polity Press, Cambridge.], respectively. Two predominant stories of survival are identified in this paper: the 'healing' story and the 'normalising' story. Each of these are explored in an attempt to address the question: How do we distinguish between 'liberating' and 'repressing' technologies of the self with regard to the telling of illness stories? [Frank, A., 1998. Stories of illness as care of the self: a Foucauldian dialogue. Health 2(3), 329-348, forthcoming.]. Through an examination of survivors' attempts to overcome their traumatic experiences via the appropriation of various illness stories, it is concluded that this question can only be answered in the practical and social context of each individual's life.
Surviving cancer: the importance of sexual self-concept.	Sexual self-schemas are cognitive generalizations regarding sexual aspects of the self; they represent a core component of one's sexuality. We contend that individual differences in sexual self-view are an important cognitive diathesis for predicting sexual difficulty or dysfunction. We illustrate the role of sexual self-schemas in sexual behavior and responsiveness in healthy female and male samples. Next, we examine the diathetic properties of sexual self-schemas. Finally, we discuss an empirical test of the proposed diathesis-stress interaction, reviewing the role of women's sexual self-views on sexual morbidity following diagnosis and treatment for gynecologic cancer.
Psychosocial aspects of infertility and decisions about reproduction in young cancer survivors: a review.	Several types of cancer treatment interfere with male and female fertility or can complicate pregnancy. Rates of birth defects and cancer have also been studied in the offspring of cancer survivors. Little is known, however, about the impact of a history of cancer on survivors' attitudes, anxieties, and choices about having children of their own.
Surviving cancer competently intervention program (SCCIP): a cognitive-behavioral and family therapy intervention for adolescent survivors of childhood cancer and their families.	Psychological reactions to having had childhood cancer often continue after treatment ends, for survivors and their parents. Based on our previous research, we developed an intervention program for adolescent survivors of childhood cancer, their parents, and siblings. Surviving Cancer Competently: An Intervention Program--SCCIP--is a one-day family group intervention that combines cognitive-behavioral and family therapy approaches. The goals of SCCIP are to reduce symptoms of distress and to improve family functioning and development. SCCIP is described and data from a pilot study of 19 families are presented. Program evaluation data indicated that all family members found SCCIP helpful. Standardized measures administered before the intervention and again at 6 months after SCCIP showed that symptoms of posttraumatic stress and anxiety decreased. Changes in family functioning were more difficult to discern. Overall, the results were promising with regard to the feasibility of the program and its potential for reducing symptoms of distress for all family members.
Listening psychoanalytically to the Shoah half a century on.	The author discusses the repercussions of the Nazi genocide of the Jews on descendants of victims and survivors, with particular reference to identifications. A typical vampiric form of identification is discussed, in which the subject is stated to be neither alive nor dead, unborn, in an imageless, timeless and spaceless condition, and imprisoned in an earlier generation's traumas. Analysis of such cases must, the author shows, tackle the genocide-induced fantasies of a vampire complex involving infanticide and parricide in addition to the incestuous and parricidal wishes of the Oedipus complex. These ideas are illustrated by a case history in which the female patient concerned, although born after the Shoah, carried the unrepresentable parental traumas within her to the detriment of her affective and professional life. The patient was effectively linked with her mother in a deadly circulation through communicating vessels, which was repeated in the transference countertransference constellation and resulted in a disavowal of both birth and death, mediated by the genocidal project. The author shows how the analysand was gradually released from this vampiric fusion and became able to reappropriate her secondary narcissistic and oedipal identifications, the resulting triangulation opening the way to sublimation and creativity.
Putting into words, putting to rest and putting aside the ancestors. How an analysand who was heir to the Armenian genocide of 1915 worked through mourning.	The author discusses the intergenerational psychic transmission of collective trauma on the basis of her personal experience as a descendant of victims of the Armenian genocide of 1915. She shows how the processes of transmission are encumbered within a diaspora community such as hers by the incorporation of objects in the throes of mourning, the invalidation of prohibitions by murder-become-law, and lack of differentiation between the sexes. A parallel is drawn between the characteristic secrecy of the genocidal project on the part of the perpetrators and the sense of illegitimacy of the victims' descendants, exacerbated in the case of the Armenian catastrophe by the refusal of the state that inherited the genocide to confess to it and consequently its erasure from Western consciousness. The author describes how she was enabled to emerge from confinement in the trauma by her French schooling and her analysis, and subsequently became able to work through mourning and writing, by divulging the secret and in particular the publication of her father's deportation diary. The written text is seen as a shroud in which the dead can finally be interred. Presenting an episode from her schooldays, she demonstrates the importance of her immersion in French culture in allowing her to achieve the necessary linguistic and psychic distance from her heritage.
Responding to children's disclosure of familial abuse: what survivors tell us.	This study is based on the reports of 384 adults who were abused physically, sexually, and/or emotionally in childhood by family members. It describes the survivors' attempts, as children, to get help by disclosing the abuse to someone who might intervene; those who did not disclose explain their reasons. The results indicate that disclosure usually did not bring an end to the abuse, and that little action was taken to control the perpetrator, even after disclosure took place. The responses received by the children to their disclosure are linked to their levels of self-esteem and family functioning as adults.
Gender differences in the historical trauma response among the Lakota.	The historical trauma response is a constellation of characteristics associated with massive cumulative group trauma across generations, similar to those found among Jewish Holocaust survivors and descendants. Trauma response features include elevated mortality rates and health problems emanating from heart disease, hypertension, alcohol abuse, and suicidal behavior. This article explores gender differences in the historical trauma response among the Lakota (Teton Sioux) and the correlation with health and mental health statistics. The theory of a Lakota historical trauma response is first explained. Traditional gender roles are described in combination with modifications engendered by traumatic Lakota history. Then, data from a study on Lakota historical trauma are presented, including gender differences in response to an experimental intervention aimed at facilitating a trauma resolution process. The data revealed significant gender differences. The sample of women presented initially with a greater degree of conscious affective experience of historical trauma. In contrast, the men reported more lifespan trauma associated with boarding school attendance and appeared to be at an earlier stage of grief. However, at the end of the intervention, women's experience of survivor guilt--a significant trauma response feature-decreased while men's consciousness of historical trauma and unresolved grief increased. Degree of traditional presentation-of-self, including phenotype, appeared to interact with gender to place male participants at greater risk for being traumatized over the lifespan and perhaps subsequently utilizing more rigid defenses against the conscious experience of the trauma with the exception of survivor guilt. The article concludes with a discussion of health and mental health implications for prevention and treatment of the trauma response which could positively impact the health status of the Lakota. Recommendations for future research are suggested.
Working with victims of persecution: lessons from Holocaust survivors.	It is estimated that 25 to 30 million people are forced to leave their homes because of human rights violations or threats to their lives. Such massive dislocations at the international level result in significant numbers of diverse, persecuted populations seeking asylum in the United States. It is estimated that as many as 400,000 victims of torture now reside in the United States, with many survivors suffering in silence. The challenge for social workers is to discover this often hidden, vulnerable population and to serve them. Among all the populations experiencing the trauma and stress of persecution, most is know about Holocaust survivors. Through examining the long-term effects of massive psychic trauma gleaned from research on Holocaust survivors and their children, this article addresses the skills, techniques, and insights about current refugee populations that can be incorporated into social work practice and training.
Quality of life one year following bone marrow transplantation: psychometric evaluation of the quality of life in bone marrow transplant survivors tool.	To examine a comprehensive view of quality of life (QOL) post-bone marrow transplant (post-BMT) and to evaluate the psychometric properties of an instrument designed to measure QOL in this population.
A preliminary study to investigate the empowerment factors of survivors who have experienced brain damage in rehabilitation.	This study was an extension of previous studies on the empowering of families caring for a relative who had experienced brain damage. The demand to adopt a similar empowerment concept in the direct rehabilitation of people with brain damage was proposed.
The views of ovarian cancer survivors on its cause, prevention, and recurrence.	Women who had survived ovarian cancer without further treatment, active disease, or recurrence for at least 2 years were surveyed by mail.
Group psychotherapy for adolescent survivors of homicide victims: a pilot study.	To conduct an exploratory study designed to evaluate the effectiveness of a time-limited psychotherapy group model to decrease traumatic symptoms among adolescent survivors of homicide victims.
Transmission of Holocaust trauma--an integrative view.	Much has been written about how children of Holocaust survivors tend to absorb the psychological burdens of their parents. But questions remain regarding such parental transmission of Holocaust trauma. What was in fact passed on from parent to child? How does the transmission occur? Do parents invariably transmit and are children equally susceptible? The purpose of this article is to discuss these issues and present a model in which the process of trauma transmission can be understood more consistently. After a brief description of that which was transmitted, four prevalent theories of trauma transmission are described, including the psychodynamic, sociocultural, family system, and biological points of view. Thereafter, some of the mitigating and aggravating factors are presented that are assumed to decrease or increase the risk of children to absorb the trauma of their parents and to develop specific second-generation psychopathology as a result. In conclusion, an integrative view is suggested that attempts to define the possible influence of biological predisposition, individual developmental history, family system and social situation on transgenerational influence of Holocaust trauma.
Disease-related distress in parents of children with cancer at various stages after the time of diagnosis.	This study evaluates and describes disease-related distress in parents, with particular focus on the association between the time elapsed since the child's cancer diagnosis and a number of indicators of distress. In a cross-sectional design, 264 mothers and fathers of children with various malignancies completed a multidimensional questionnaire focusing on 11 illness-specific and general indicators of distress. Parents were assessed from 4 weeks to 14 years after the child's diagnosis, and age of children at onset of illness ranged from newly born to 21 years (mean approximately 6 years). The levels of distress related to loss of control, self-esteem, anxiety, depression, sleep disturbances, and psychological and physical distress were lower among parents for whom a longer period of time had elapsed from the time of diagnosis. However, the time elapsed could not explain all of the variation in these stress reactions, or any of the variation in uncertainty, disease-related fear and loneliness. The child's age at diagnosis and treatment situation at assessment were surpassed by time elapsed since diagnosis as predictors of variance in parental distress. The pattern observed indicates the presence of disease-related distress even years after the completion of medical treatment. The findings point to the need for research to identify parents at particular risk of suffering long-term harmful consequences from the prolonged stress of parenting a child with cancer. The necessity of longitudinal studies to evaluate the proportion of acute stress in relation to chronic or cumulative parental stress is emphasized.
Surviving breast cancer: the role of complementary therapies.	Early detection and efficacious treatment have prolonged the lives of women diagnosed with breast cancer. Although many of these women have survived more than 5 years, there is minimal knowledge of their use of complementary and alternative medical (CAM) treatments. A qualitative focus group study was conducted with 66 breast cancer survivors, ranging in age from 32 to 85 years, with time since diagnosis 2 to 28 years. This article will discuss specific reasons breast cancer survivors reported for using CAM, the ways in which breast cancer survivors blended these therapies with conventional Western medicine, and health care providers' roles in supporting breast cancer survivors' use of CAM approaches.
From dust to dust: ethical and practical issues involved in the location, exhumation, and identification of bodies from mass graves.	There are many potential purposes served by the investigation of human remains: criminal fact-finding, archaeological exploration, forensic research, and others. This paper focuses on the identification of remains from mass graves to find missing persons. The primary goal of such efforts is to honor the memory of the dead by bringing closure to living family members, thus supporting the human rights of both the living and the deceased. Cultures, customs, political, and interpersonal specifics will vary, but that singular goal should remain the central guiding principle. This article presents ethical and practical issues resulting from efforts to locate, exhume, and identify the remains of mass fatalities.
Child and adolescent survivors of suicide.	Suicide in a family is distressing for each and every member. Children and adolescents bereaved by suicide are known to be more at risk of suffering from a variety of psychiatric problems, especially affective disorders. A group of children and adolescents who experienced a suicidal death in the family were assessed for psychiatric problems as well as for social adjustment. The findings suggest that the bereaved children and adolescents are at elevated risk for major depressive disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder, and impaired social adjustment.
Networking to support suicide survivors.	This paper is the first report on a national program for increasing bereavement support for suicide survivors in the Flemish region in Belgium. A Working Group consisting of representatives of a wide variety of mental health institutions, social programs, and suicide survivor groups in the area determined that a program developing networks between the services seems to hold the greatest promise for both an increase in the number of services available and an improvement in the quality of services offered.
Meaning making in the aftermath of homicide.	Although sense making or finding benefit are well documented examples of meaning making processes, meaning making grounded in action has received less attention. This article adds a specific demonstration of the relevance of performed meanings to homicide survivors and other traumatized populations through a qualitative study of 38 members of 14 families. The central finding of the study points to "the intense pursuit of what matters" as a major avenue for meaning making in the aftermath of homicide, one which is expressed in action. Implications of this mode of meaning reconstruction are discussed relative to the re-establishment of a sense of coherence and self-continuity.
Participation in trauma research: is there evidence of harm?	Few studies have examined the impact of trauma research participation upon trauma survivors. Empirical data regarding reactions to research participation would be very useful to address the question of whether it is harmful for trauma survivors to participate in trauma studies. We examined participant reactions to different trauma assessment procedures in domestic violence (N = 260), rape (N = 108), and physical assault (N = 62) samples. Results indicated that participation was very well tolerated by the vast majority of the trauma survivors. Participants generally found that the assessment experience was not distressing and was, in fact, viewed as an interesting and valuable experience. The findings suggest that trauma survivors are not too fragile to participate in trauma research even in the acute aftermath of a traumatic experience.
Coping with incest: the relationship between recollections of childhood coping and adult functioning in female survivors of incest.	One hundred and one adult female survivors' recollections of coping with childhood incest, abuse characteristics, and current functioning in adulthood were studied. Analyses controlling for characteristics of the trauma indicated that recollections of using avoidance coping and seeking social support were related to poor adult functioning whereas recollections of using distancing coping were related to better functioning. As a set of variables, abuse characteristics also predicted a significant amount of variance in adult functioning. Implications for future research were discussed.
Time does not heal all wounds: quality of life and psychological distress of people who survived the holocaust as children 55 years later.	The present study assessed posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, psychological distress, and subjective quality of life (QoL) in a group of 43 child Holocaust survivors and a community sample of 44 persons who had not personally experienced the Holocaust. The participants were administered the PTSD-Scale, the SCL-90, and the WHOQOL-Bref. Results showed that the child survivors had higher PTSD symptom scores, higher depression, anxiety, somatization, and anger-hostility scores; and lower physical, psychological, and social QoL than did the comparison group. The findings suggest that the psychological consequences of being a child during the Holocaust can be long lasting.
Torture as a medico-psychological and social problem]	To investigate and define the consequences of the torture in civilian survivors of state sponsored violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to point out that torture is not solely medical and psychological problem but also a social problem requiring various interventions of the society at large.
Adult psychosocial functioning following childhood cancer: the different roles of sons' and daughters' relationships with their fathers and mothers.	Adult survivors of childhood cancer have impaired psychosocial functioning, but not much is known about the causes. In this study we examined the role of relationships with parents as a possible mediating factor.
A new approach to eliciting meaning in the context of breast cancer.	A semistructured measure was developed from early descriptive work by Lipowski to elicit the meaning of breast cancer using eight preset categories: challenge, enemy, punishment, weakness, relief, strategy, irreparable loss, and value. This measure was applied in two studies: a cross-sectional survey of 1012 Canadian women at various points after diagnosis and a follow-up study 3 years later of 205 women from the previous study who were close to the time of diagnosis at the first testing. The majority of the 1012 women chose "challenge" (57.4%) or "value" (27.6%) to describe the meaning of breast cancer, whereas fewer chose the more negative "enemy" (7.8%) or "irreparable loss" (3.9%). At the 3-year follow-up assessment, 78.9% of the women who had indicated positive meaning by their choices of "challenge" or "value" did so again. Verbal descriptions provided by the women were congruent with those reported in previous qualitative studies of meaning in breast cancer with respect to the two most prevalent categories: challenge and value. At follow-up assessment, women who ascribed a negative meaning of illness with choices such as "enemy," "loss," or "punishment" had significantly higher levels of depression and anxiety and poorer quality of life than women who indicated a more positive meaning. The meaning-of-illness measure provides an approach that can be applied in large surveys to detect women who ascribe less positive meaning to the breast cancer experience, women who may be difficult to identify in the context of small, qualitative studies.
The aftermath of lung cancer: balancing the good and bad.	Little is known about the experience of surviving lung cancer because of its low survival rate. However, 14% of the people with a diagnosis of lung cancer become long-term survivors. This study describes the experience of surviving lung cancer as told by a subsample of survivors from a larger quantitative investigation of the quality of life among long-term survivors of lung cancer. The Center for Epidemiologic Survey Depression (CES-D) scale was used to evaluate distressed mood. The Short-Form 36 was used to evaluate quality of life. Handheld spirometry was used to evaluate pulmonary function abnormalities. Interviews were conducted with 29 participants. Qualitative analysis showed that survivors express positive and negative aspects differentially when divided into those with distressed mood (CES-D > or = 16; n = 9) and those not distressed (CES-D < 16; n = 20). Those in the not distressed group talked of their experience in more positive terms around the five central themes than those in the distressed mood group. The central themes that emerged were existential issues, health and self-care, physical ability, adjustment, and support. Subscale scores from the SF-36 were used to enhance the experience description. The results of this study highlight the importance of attending to both the physical and emotional needs of lung cancer survivors.
The experience of leukaemia and bone marrow transplant: searching for meaning and agency.	This qualitative study examines the experience of haematological cancer as described by ten people who have been through leukaemia or lymphoma and a bone marrow transplant. The focus is on the interaction of these participants with this challenging experience and the meaning it had for them. The descriptions of their thoughts, feelings and actions as they negotiated the period from diagnosis to treatment and survival reveal that these people brought both the present values in their life, as well as a life-long pattern of dealing with adversity, into their confrontation of a life-threatening illness. Issues of personal meaning and agency (the capacity to act and control valued aspects of one's life) were found to be paramount. These results are then discussed with a view to their implications for patient care.
Rising from the ashes: stories of recovery, adaptation and resiliency in burn survivors.	Burn-injured people are confronted with enormous challenges in their recovery process on a physical, emotional, and spiritual level. Despite the magnitude of trauma, there has been a dearth of research exploring adult burn survivors' perception of their experiences. In this qualitative study, eight burn survivors were interviewed. Influences that impacted their experiences such as perceived memories, time, and age when burned were distinguished from the multiple themes of losses to identity, life style, relationships and physical functioning as well as themes of adaptation, coping and resiliency. Drawing from the burn survivors' stories of recovery can provide insights for social workers and other health care professionals in serving this compelling population more effectively.
Strengths and barriers in conducting research among older adults with HIV.	Interviews and field notes from a qualitative study of older adults with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) were analyzed to identify barriers and strengths to studying this population. Self-selection bias, recruiting people with high HIV-related stigma, and test-savvy individuals were potential barriers to research.
Dimensions of trauma associated with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) caseness, severity and functional impairment: a study of Bosnian refugees resettled in Australia.	Refugee survivors of inter-ethnic warfare vary greatly in the extent and range of their trauma experiences. Discerning which experiences are most salient to generating and perpetuating disorders such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is critical to the mounting rational strategies for targeted psychosocial interventions. In a sample of Bosnian Muslim refugees (n=126) drawn from a community centre and supplemented by a snowball sampling method, PTSD status and associated disability were measured using the clinician-administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) for DSM-IV. A principal components analysis (PCA) based on a pool of trauma items yielded four coherent trauma dimensions: Human Rights Violations, Threat to Life, Traumatic Loss and Dispossession and Eviction. A cluster analysis identified three subgroupings according to extent of trauma exposure. There were no differences in PTSD risk for the group most exposed to human rights violations (internment in concentration camps, torture) compared to the general war-exposed group. Logistic regression analysis using the dimensions derived from the PCA indicated that Threat to Life alone of the four trauma factors predicted PTSD status, a finding that supports the DSM-IV definition of a trauma. Both Threat to Life and Traumatic Loss contributed to symptom severity and disability associated with PTSD. It may be that human rights violations pose a more general threat to the survivor's future psychosocial adaptation in areas of functioning that extend beyond the confines of PTSD.
Somali and Oromo refugees: correlates of torture and trauma history.	This cross-sectional, community-based, epidemiological study characterized Somali and Ethiopian (Oromo) refugees in Minnesota to determine torture prevalence and associated problems.
Correlates of posttraumatic growth in husbands of breast cancer survivors.	Following breast cancer, many survivors and spouses report posttraumatic growth (PTG)-positive life changes. This correlational study identified social context and event-related correlates of PTG among husbands of breast cancer survivors (N=72). Bivariate analyses indicated that husbands' PTG was positively associated with general social support, greater marital support and depth of commitment, greater PTG in wife, shorter time since diagnosis and breast cancer meeting DSM-IV criteria for traumatic stressor. Multiple regression analysis revealed that the significant predictors of husbands' PTG were depth of marital commitment, wife's PTG, and breast cancer meeting DSM-IV traumatic stressor criteria. Psychosocial research and interventions need to acknowledge that couples face the cancer together and share not only the pain but also the potential for gain from the trauma.
FACT-G: reliability and validity of the Malayalam translation.	Emphasis is currently being placed on the need for quality of life in cancer survivors. There is a great need to identify an appropriate tool for quality of life estimation in these linguistically and culturally different settings.
The psychiatric sequelae of human rights violations: a challenge for primary health care.	High rates of psychiatric morbidity have been documented in survivors of gross human rights abuses. Nevertheless, there has been relatively little focus on such patients in the context of primary care medicine. A sample of 134 survivors of gross human rights violations was assessed using a structured interview to determine exposure to violations and psychiatric status. In addition, psychiatric treatment history was probed with an open-ended interview. The study found that of the 95 of 134 (72%) participants who were assessed and found to have a current psychiatric diagnosis, only three were receiving treatment for such a disorder. Many subjects had presented to primary care clinics with somatic symptoms and had been prescribed benzodiazepines. Reasons for not reporting trauma or not seeking treatment included issues revolving around fear and mistrust, privacy and confidentiality, re-experiencing the trauma, and lack of awareness. Misdiagnosis and ineffective treatment of survivors of human rights abuses are likely to pose a significant drain on primary care resources. Accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment are important challenges in primary care settings.
Impact of personality disorders on treatment outcome for female assault survivors with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder.	This study examined the impact of comorbid personality disorders on the outcome of cognitive behavioral treatment for women with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Seventy-five adult women with PTSD resulting from rape or nonsexual assault in adulthood or sexual abuse in childhood were treated with prolonged exposure with or without cognitive restructuring. Assessment of personality disorders found that 39% of participants met DSM-IV criteria for some personality disorder diagnosis. No difference was found between women with and without personality disorders on the prevalence of PTSD at the end of treatment. Participants with a personality disorder were less likely to attain good end-state functioning, but this may be attributable to the fact that they started off slightly worse than those without personality disorders. Finally, the comorbid patients treated by community therapists fared as well or better than those treated by cognitive behavioral treatment experts in posttreatment prevalence of PTSD and end-state functioning.
The longitudinal impact of psychological functioning, medical severity, and family functioning in pediatric heart transplantation.	Few data are available on the longitudinal psychological functioning of patients after pediatric heart transplantation. The objective of this study was to determine whether pre-transplant psychological functioning, post-transplant medical severity, and family functioning relate to the psychological functioning of pediatric patients after heart transplantation.
Health professionals, Jewish religion and community structure in the service of the aging holocaust survivor.	Many holocaust survivors are now reaching old age and this is accompanied by the increased likelihood of physical frailty and deterioration of their cognitive capacities. These changes can be accompanied by exacerbation of traumatic memories, which might once have been effectively suppressed. This, in turn, may manifest itself in fresh anxieties. Their attitudes towards health professionals, Jewish religious ritual and the community are some of the issues discussed. Possible strategies for the more effective medical and social management of the aged holocaust survivors are also considered.
Discordant feelings in the lifeworld of cancer survivors.	This article concerns persons who live in uncertainty following an earlier diagnosis of (and completed treatment for) cancer. Fear of recurrence of the disease underlies the uncertainty and the attendant perception of being profoundly endangered, more 'at risk' than anyone else. Such a reflective assessment engenders a sense of separation from the everyday 'practical consciousness' that seems effortlessly to be shared by 'ordinary' others. The mismatch between the interaction order and individual psychology gives rise to interpersonal emotional dissonance, which forms a significant aspect of the chronic suffering contained in the 'at-risk illness' experience of cancer survivors. The article examines the emotional patterns involved in their situation and seeks to elucidate the pain that accompanies their alienation from the lifeworld in which nonetheless they must continue to dwell.
It could have been me: vicarious victims and disaster-focused distress.	College students who had experienced no personal bereavement in the September 11 terrorist attacks completed questionnaires between 3 and 5 weeks after the attacks and 5 months later. Cross-sectional and longitudinal structural equation model (SEM) analyses revealed that general distress and disaster-focused distress are discernable reactions following a collective loss. Both types of distress were higher among women and by those reporting social strain. General distress was associated with previous stressful events and mental health issues. Perceived similarity to the victims predicted disaster-focused distress and mediated the relationship between attending to media accounts of victims and disaster-focused distress. Only the disaster-focused distress reactions of survivor guilt and grief were associated with collective helping behaviors after the attacks and, for women, these behaviors were associated with greater reductions in these distress reactions over time. Discussion focuses on the importance of examining disaster-focused distress reactions following collective loss.
Physiological responsiveness of motor vehicle accident survivors with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder.	This study sought to replicate past research that has shown differences in physiological responsiveness among survivors of motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and those survivors who do not develop this disorder. Such physiological differences have been found specifically with heart rate (HR) reactivity. This study also attempts to account for differences among those survivors with PTSD who do respond physiologically in laboratory situations and those who do not show a physiological response when presented with audiotaped descriptions of their accidents. Results replicated the significant differences in HR reactivity between diagnostic groups with chronic PTSD versus those with subsyndromal PTSD and non-PTSD. Variables related to the severity of the diagnosis and trauma were found to discriminate between physiological responders and nonresponders with chronic PTSD.
Quality of life of 5-10 year breast cancer survivors diagnosed between age 40 and 49.	The purpose of this report is to examine the correlates of quality of life (QOL) of a well-defined group of long-term breast cancer survivors diagnosed between the ages of 40 and 49.
Quality of life of survivors of testicular germ cell cancer: a review of the literature.	Testicular cancer (TC) affects young men in the prime of life. The excellent prognosis and an increasing incidence have led to a growing number of testicular cancer survivors (TCSs). The aim of this review was to summarize and discuss research findings on the quality of life (QOL) of TCSs in terms of physical, psychological, and social well-being.
Long-term effects of psychological trauma on psychosocial functioning.	Most studies of the effects of trauma on mental health have generally not separately assessed psychosocial functioning, and in those that have key issues have received little attention, such as the relation between the time courses of the two kinds of outcome, and detailed assessment of social functioning in a range of domains. The present study made separate assessments with a view to testing four hypotheses. First, that the experience of trauma itself (independently of effects on mental health) has a negative effect on psychosocial functioning; second, that psychopathology following trauma is associated with poorer psychosocial functioning; third, that psychosocial functioning recovers when psychiatric conditions remit; fourth, that post-traumatic stress and depression have different associations with impairments of psycho-social functioning.
Late neurocognitive sequelae in survivors of brain tumours in childhood.	As survival among children treated for cancer continues to improve, more attention is being focussed on the late effects of cancer treatment. In children treated for brain tumours, chronic neurocognitive effects are especially challenging. Deficits in cognitive development have been described most thoroughly among children treated for posterior-fossa tumours, specifically medulloblastomas and ependymomas, which account for about 30% of all newly diagnosed cases of brain tumours in children. Most children who have survived brain tumours have required surgical resection and focal or craniospinal radiotherapy (irradiation of the entire subarachnoid volume of the brain and spine), with or without systemic chemotherapy. Historically, intelligence quotient (IQ) scores have provided a benchmark against which to measure changes in cognitive development after treatment. Observed declines in IQ are most likely a result of failure to learn at a rate that is appropriate for the age of the child, rather than from a loss of previously acquired knowledge. The rate of IQ decline is associated with a several risk factors, including younger age at time of treatment, longer time since treatment, female sex, as well as clinical variables such as hydrocephalus, use of radiotherapy and radiotherapy dose, and the volume of the brain that received treatment. Loss of cerebral white matter and failure to develop white matter at a rate appropriate to the developmental stage of the child could partly account for changes in IQ score. Technical advances in radiotherapy hold promise for lowering the frequency of neurocognitive sequelae. Further efforts to limit neurocognitive sequelae have included design of clinical trials to test the effectiveness of cognitive, behavioural, and pharmacological interventions.
Understanding those who self-mutilate.	Self-mutilating behavior is a symptom seen in both men and women with various psychiatric disorders, but the majority of those who self-mutilate are women with borderline personality disorder. This complex, maladaptive behavior is used by clients as a means of self-preservation and emotion regulation, and is often associated with childhood trauma. Clients who self-mutilate perceive they receive poor care in hospital emergency departments and are retraumatized by these experiences. Clinicians who understand the complexity and purposes of self-mutilating behavior are better able to provide clients with supportive, empathetic care.
The Minneapolis-Manchester Quality of Life instrument: Reliability and validity of the Youth Form.	Improvements in survival after childhood cancer have increased emphasis on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of survivors. We developed the Minneapolis-Manchester Quality of Life-Youth Form (MMQL-YF) as a standardized patient self-report instrument designed to assess HRQoL in childhood cancer survivors between the ages of 8 and 12 years.
Sexual torture of men in Croatia and other conflict situations: an open secret.	Sexual torture constitutes any act of sexual violence which qualifies as torture. Public awareness of the widespread use of sexual torture as a weapon of war greatly increased after the war in the former Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. Sexual torture has serious mental, physical and sexual health consequences. Attention to date has focused more on the sexual torture of women than of men, partly due to gender stereotypes. This paper describes the circumstances in which sexual torture occurs, its causes and consequences, and the development of international law addressing it. It presents data from a study in 2000 in Croatia, where the number of men who were sexually tortured appears to have been substantial. Based on in-depth interviews with 16 health professionals and data from the medical records of three centres providing care to refugees and victims of torture, the study found evidence of rape and other forced sexual acts, full or partial castration, genital beatings and electroshock. Few men admit being sexually tortured or seek help, and professionals may fail to recognise cases. Few perpetrators have been prosecuted, mainly due to lack of political will. The silence that envelopes sexual torture of men in the aftermath of the war in Croatia stands in strange contrast to the public nature of the crimes themselves.
Sexuality and women's rights in armed conflict in Sri Lanka.	The discourse of human rights in armed conflict situations is well adapted to respond to violence and violation, invoking internationally agreed principles of civil and political rights. However, in areas where the subject or domain of rights discourse is contested or controversial, human rights advocates appear less prepared to promote and defend such rights. Sexuality is one such domain. This paper explores the complex sexual choices women in Sri Lanka have had to negotiate, particularly widows and sex workers, within a context of ethnic conflict, militarisation and war. It argues that sexuality cannot be defined exclusively in terms of violation, even in a context dominated by violence, and that the sexual ordering of society may be subverted in such conditions. Newly widowed women and sex workers have had to negotiate self-determination as well as take responsibility for earning income and heading households, in spite of contrary community pressures. For women, political and economic rights are closely linked with the ability to determine their sexual and reproductive choices. The challenge to women's and human rights advocates is how to articulate sexual autonomy as a necessary right on a par with others, and strategise to secure this right during armed conflict and postwar reconstruction.
Assessing the relationship between locus of control and social competence in pediatric burn survivors attending summer cAMP.	Previous research suggests that children with burn injuries often exhibit psychological and social difficulties. The areas of functioning that are affected most often include level of anxiety, social competence, and self-esteem. Those children having an internal locus of control (LOC) have been shown to react more positively to physical disorders and to have better psychological responding in nonburn populations. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there is a relationship between LOC and social competence in pediatric burn survivors. Participants were children aged 8 to 18 years who had been treated for a burn injury and attended a 1-week summer camp for pediatric burn survivors. Results indicated that the type of LOC was not a predictor of the overall level of social competence, as reported on three different measures of social competence. However, LOC significantly accounted for variability in the child's cooperation level, according to parent report. Other results are discussed, as well as implications for future research and clinical work in this area.
Emotional control in Chinese female cancer survivors.	Chinese persons are not known as strong in expressing emotions, especially negative ones. However, being diagnosed with cancer and going through treatment can be an emotionally traumatic experience and cancer patients are supposed to have a stronger need to express these negative feelings. The control of expression of negative emotions such as anger, anxiety and depression in Chinese female cancer survivors (n=139) was examined in the present study using the Chinese version of the Courtauld Emotional Control Scale (CECS). The reliability, internal consistency and validity of the Chinese CECS were comparable to the original English scale. Correlation analyses suggested that cancer survivors with higher emotional control tended to have higher stress, anxiety and depression levels and to adopt negative coping with cancer. Regression analysis showed that emotional control would positively predict stress level even after the effect of depressed mood was under control. Further investigations are suggested in order to elucidate the causal relationships and specific cultural factors affecting emotional control in Chinese cancer survivors and, most importantly, its effect on health outcomes.
The course of life of survivors of childhood cancer.	The developmental consequences in adulthood of growing up with childhood cancer are not well understood. The Course of life questionnaire was developed to assess the attainment of developmental milestones retrospectively and socio-demographic outcomes in young adulthood. The aim of this study was to assess the course of life and socio-demographic outcomes in young adult survivors of childhood cancer. Knowledge about possible gaps in the course of life could enable health care providers to aim for the most favourable course of life. A total of 353 Dutch survivors and a comparison group of 508 peers without a history of cancer, all aged between 18 and 30, filled in the Course of life questionnaire. The course of life of the survivors was found to be hampered. The young adult survivors of childhood cancer in the Netherlands turned out to have achieved fewer milestones than their peers with respect to autonomy development, social development, and psycho-sexual development, or to have achieved the milestones when they were older than their peers. In addition, survivors displayed less risk behaviour than the comparison group. The survivors and the comparison group also differed on some socio-demographic issues. A considerably lower percentage of survivors than peers in the comparison group were married or living together, and/or employed. Their educational level, on the other hand, was as high as that of their peers.
Quality of life in patients who survive a dire prognosis compared to control cancer survivors.	The primary goal of this study was to describe well-being and its correlates in long-term cancer survivors who had exceeded their life expectancies ('exceptional survivors' (ES)) and to identify ways in which exceptional survivors differed from cancer survivors with much better prognoses ('control survivors' (CS)). Survivors were identified through a population-based tumor registry, and ES (n = 160) were matched to CS (n = 160) on age, ethnicity, site of disease, and time since diagnosis. Data were collected through in person interviews and self-administered questionnaires. Outcomes included quality of life, depression, and stress. Predictors included demographics, clinical variables and psychological predictors (sense of coherence, optimism, and resiliency). The findings led to several clear conclusions: (1) cancer survivors are doing well, in comparison to well-being in control populations; (2) cancer survivors exhibit higher levels of sense of coherence and resilience, but not optimism, than control populations; (3) psychological variables explain considerable variance in well-being; and (4) there are few differences between exceptional and control survivors. We conclude that objective disease state is not as important to cancer survivor well-being as personal attributes, and that a cancer diagnosis has such frightening implications that all survivors consider their recovery to be 'exceptional'.
Quality of life, self-esteem and worries in young adult survivors of childhood cancer.	This study assessed quality of life, self-esteem and worries in young adult survivors of childhood cancer compared to a group of young adults with no history of cancer. The impact of demographic, medical and treatment factors and self-esteem on survivors' quality of life and worries was studied. Participants were 400 long-term survivors (LTS) of childhood cancer (age range 16-49 years, 45% female) who had completed treatment an average of 16 years previously and 560 persons (age range 16-53 years, 55% female) with no history of cancer. All participants completed the MOS-24 (Medical Outcome Study Scale), a Worry questionnaire consisting of three scales (cancer-specific concerns, general health concerns, present and future concerns), and the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale. Small to moderate differences were found in mean MOS-24 scores between the LTS group and controls (range effect sizes -0.36-0.22). No significant difference was found in the mean self-esteem scores between LTS and controls. Female LTS had more cancer-specific concerns than male LTS. In several related areas of general health, self-image and dying, the LTS group reported less worries than controls, but LTS worried significantly more about their fertility, getting/changing a job and obtaining insurance's. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that female gender, unemployment, severe late effects/health problems and a low self-esteem were predictors of worse quality of life in survivors. In addition, age at follow-up, unemployment, years since completion of therapy and a low self-esteem were associated with a higher degree of survivors' worries. Quality of life and the level of self-esteem in LTS of childhood cancer is not different from their peers. Although many LTS worried not more or even less about health issues than their peers, they often are concerned about some present and future concerns. The investigated factors could explain poor quality of life and worries only to a limited extent. Further research exploring determinants and indices of quality of life and worries in LTS is warranted.
Function and quality-of-life of survivors of pelvic and lower extremity osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma: the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study.	Limb-sparing surgeries have been performed more frequently than amputation based on the belief that limb-sparing surgeries provide improved function and quality-of-life (QOL). However, this has not been extensively studied in the paediatric population, which has unique characteristics that have implications for function and QOL. Using the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study, 528 adult long-term survivors of pediatric lower extremity bone tumours, diagnosed between 1970 and 1986, were contacted and completed questionnaries assessing function and QOL. Survivors were an average of 21 years from diagnosis with an average age of 35 years. Overall they reported excellent function and QOL. Compared to those who had a limb-sparing procedure, amputees were not more likely to have lower function and QOL scores and self-perception of disability included general health status, lower educational attainment, older age and female gender. Findings from this study suggest that, over time, amputees do as well as those who underwent limb-sparing surgeries between 1970 and 1986. However, female gender, lower educational attainment and older current age appear to influence function, QOL and disability.
Family of origin environments in two clinical samples of survivors of intra-familial, extra-familial, and both types of sexual abuse.	It has been suggested that survivors of ongoing childhood sexual abuse (CSA) tend to have been reared in ineffective family environments that render them particularly vulnerable to maltreatment and which foster psychological difficulties beyond those accounted for solely by their abuse. If this conjecture is valid, one would expect that the family of origin environments of CSA survivors would be disturbed whether their abuser was intra-familial or extra-familial. To assess this hypothesis, two studies compared the childhood family of origin environments and supportive parenting characteristics of a clinical sample of women sexually abused by family members only (the intra-familial group), by non-family members only (the extra-familial group), and by both family and non-family members (the "both" group).
Holocaust survivors coping with open heart surgery decades later: posttraumatic symptoms and quality of life.	History of prolonged traumatization has been associated with reduced quality of life (QoL) and difficulties in coping with major life-threatening conditions. We assessed the association between the impact of Holocaust experience (posttraumatic symptoms) and QoL of patients before and after an open heart surgery.
Hippocampal volume and first major depressive episode after cancer diagnosis in breast cancer survivors.	Patients experiencing their first major depressive episode after receiving a diagnosis of cancer are frequently seen in clinical oncology settings; however, little is known about the neurobiological basis of the first episode. In previous studies, a smaller hippocampus than in healthy comparison subjects has been observed in patients with a history of recurrent and prolonged major depressive episodes. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether there is an association between hippocampal volume and a first major depressive episode after cancer diagnosis in cancer survivors.
The transition to widowhood and the social regulation of health: consequences for health and health risk behavior.	This study estimates the effects of the transition to widowhood on changes in the social regulation of health and examines the consequences of this association for health and health risk behavior following spousal death.
Interventions for suicide survivors: a review of the literature.	Mourning after suicide is frequently a difficult experience. Research suggests that suicide survivors may be at elevated risk for several psychiatric and somatic complications. Despite this, very little research has focused on developing and empirically evaluating clinical interventions for this population. This paper attempts to stimulate interest in intervention research by reviewing three relevant areas: (a) studies of the perceived needs of survivors; (b) implications of the research on general bereavement interventions for work with survivors; and (c) research documenting the efficacy of specific interventions for adult survivors. Recommendations for future studies are discussed.
Substance use, suicidal ideation and attempts in children and adolescents.	Using data from a community sample of youth ( N = 1,458; ages 9-17), this study assessed the association between adolescent substance use/abuse and suicidal behaviors. Suicide attempts were strongly associated with alcohol abuse and dependence, followed by frequent cigarette smoking. The associations remained significant even after controlling for depression. The associations between substance use/abuse and suicidal ideation were no longer significant after controlling for depression. These findings highlight the important role that substance use plays in adolescent suicidal behaviors.
Influence of stroke survivor characteristics and family conflict surrounding recovery on caregivers' mental and physical health.	Stroke recovery is a dynamic process for stroke survivors, and shorter lengths of stay in healthcare settings shift the care of the survivors to family caregivers. The physical and mental sequelae after stroke and the family's response to this catastrophic event may have deleterious effects on caregivers.
Surviving sudden loss: when life, death, and technology collide.	Patients who survive sudden cardiac arrest are at risk for anxiety, depression, and other psychosocial difficulties. By exploring the impact of surviving sudden cardiac arrest as it relates to the expectations and emotions of patients and their families, nurses can promote realistic and readily usable processes for facilitation of healthy grieving, adaptive coping, and reinvestment in life.
Evidence-based interventions for survivors of childhood cancer and their families.	To summarize existing empirical reports of psychological interventions for children with cancer and their families and to outline directions for future work.
Targets of partner violence: the importance of understanding coping trajectories.	Partner violence causes many negative outcomes for the target of the violence. Preventing negative outcomes in part hinges on altogether preventing the violence from occurring. There have been advances in violence prevention that the authors briefly review. However, some of the most notable advances focus on dealing with partner violence once it occurs. We now have a better understanding of different types of violence, and this has led to better interventions for perpetrators. But preventing the negative consequences of partner violence involves more than ending the violence itself; it also involves helping the targets of violence heal. The authors propose that the next decade of research on partner violence should focus on developing precise models of target coping and appropriate interventions for targets. The authors describe key variables that characterize the coping process but highlight limitations in knowledge of how these variables are related. The authors also outline several benefits of focusing on helping targets.
Empirically enhanced reflections on 20 years of rape research.	Using PsychInfo review of rape and sexual assault publications, the period of greatest fertility coincided with the establishment (1975) and demise (1987) of the National Center for the Prevention and Control of Rape. To document what has been learned and when, the era in which new rape concepts entered the literature is summarized and important developments highlighted. Then, new investigations that are urgently needed are elaborated. The author expresses concern that current federal investment is insufficient to sustain and expand a science workforce adequate to the tasks ahead. Since 1995, more than 1 billion US dollars have been awarded to prosecutors, law enforcement, and community agencies to assist victims of violence. In contrast, between 1996 and 2003, only 14 of 178 (7%) of investigator-initiated grants funded by the Department of Justice and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for violence against women had titles pairing the word sexual with assault, violence, abuse, or rape.
The most important things learned about violence and trauma in the past 20 years.	In the past 2 decades, important insights have been gained regarding violence and trauma. Complications occur in how violence and trauma, their causes, and their effects on victims should be defined. Violence and abuse to women--physical, sexual, and emotional--are not rare events and are most often perpetrated by partners or acquaintances rather than strangers and occur in nonmarital as well as marital relationships, including same-sex relationships. A promising methodological innovation in the study of violence and trauma is the use of longitudinal designs. Innovations in treatments for victims such as evidence-based interventions have been slow to emerge; they include eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) and the Seeking Safety group intervention for drug-abusing women with trauma histories. Future research should address increased understanding of variation in individual responses to violence and trauma, matching of treatment to different types of male offenders, better understanding of how culture affects violence perpetration and victimization, and evaluation of domestic violence interventions.
Understanding rape and sexual assault: 20 years of progress and future directions.	During the past 20 years, researchers have documented the widespread problem of rape in American society. Approximately one in four women are raped in their adult lifetime, which causes severe psychological distress and long-term physical health problems. The impact of sexual assault extends far beyond rape survivors as their family, friends, and significant others are also negatively affected. Moreover, those who help rape victims, such as rape victim advocates, therapists, as well as sexual assault researchers, can experience vicarious trauma. Future research and advocacy should focus on improving the community response to rape and the prevention of sexual assault.
Preventing violence and trauma in the next generation.	Research in recent times has clearly demonstrated that violence is predictable and preventable; however, the primary prevention of abusive and violent behavior will not occur without personal, interpersonal, and social change. This article reviews the empirical research supporting hypotheses for primary prevention of many risks associated with children becoming abusive.
The effects of trauma recall on smoking topography in posttraumatic stress disorder and non-posttraumatic stress disorder trauma survivors.	Smoking topography was measured in trauma survivors with and without posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after recalling trauma-related and neutral experiences. Analysis of covariance was performed on puff topography and mood measures using nicotine dependence scores and current major depressive disorder as covariates. Puff volumes were higher in the PTSD group than in the non-PTSD group. The PTSD group exhibited stable puff onset intervals while the non-PTSD group exhibited significantly shorter intervals following trauma recall. These findings support a "ceiling effect" hypothesis in which individuals with PTSD perpetually smoke in such a way as to maximize nicotine delivery, possibly reducing the potentially reinforcing effects of increased smoke delivery in negative affect-inducing situations.
Long-term health-related quality of life, growth, and spiritual well-being after hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation.	To examine health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and growth, and spiritual well-being in adult survivors of hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) for a malignant disease.
Fear of recurrence, sense of coherence and posttraumatic stress disorder in haematological cancer survivors.	The diagnosis and treatment of cancer has been shown to precipitate posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in some cancer survivors. However few studies have considered the links between cancer-related PTSD and theoretical models of PTSD. This study considers a cognitive model of PTSD by examining the relationship between sense of coherence, and fear of recurrence to posttraumatic stress symptomatology (PTSS) in haematological cancer survivors. Thirty-six participants completed the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version (PCL-C), the Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R), the sense of coherence scale and two measures of fear of recurrence. Two measures of fear of recurrence were included as no fear of recurrence measures had previously been assessed for reliability and validity on British populations. Seventeen percent of the sample met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for PTSD. Statistically significant relationships were found between sense of coherence and fear of recurrence and PTSS, raising questions about the possibility of using this construct as a screening measure for vulnerability to PTSD. A relationship was also found between fear of recurrence and PTSS suggesting that cancer-related PTSS may fit within the theoretical model of PTSD considered. Further examination of factors affecting the onset, maintenance and treatment of PTSD in this population is required.
Narrative Exposure Therapy as a treatment for child war survivors with posttraumatic stress disorder: two case reports and a pilot study in an African refugee settlement.	Little data exists on the effectiveness of psychological interventions for children with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) that has resulted from exposure to war or conflict-related violence, especially in non-industrialized countries. We created and evaluated the efficacy of KIDNET, a child-friendly version of Narrative Exposure Therapy (NET), as a short-term treatment for children.
Does a history of childhood sexual abuse affect sexual outcomes in breast cancer survivors?	Little is known about a history of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) in breast cancer survivors and its relationship to sexual functioning after cancer. As part of a larger survey study examining sexuality and intimacy in breast cancer survivors, we conducted in-person interviews with a subsample of participants.
Intervention studies for caregivers of stroke survivors: a critical review.	The objective of this review was to evaluate the effectiveness of different types of intervention programs for caregivers of stroke patients. A systematic search using Medline, PsychINFO, AMED and CINAHL till March 2003 was carried out and 22 studies were identified. Four types of support programs could be studied: providing specialist services, (psycho)education, counselling and social support by peers. Many different outcome domains and a variety of measures were used. Ten studies reported positive results on one or more outcome domains: reduction of depression (two studies) and burden (one), improvement of knowledge on stroke (five), satisfaction with care (one), family functioning (one), quality of life (three), problem solving skills (two), social activities (two), and social support (one). Three studies reported a negative result on caregiver outcome. We could not identify sufficient evidence to confirm the efficacy of interventions but counselling programs (3 out of 4) appear to have the most positive outcome.
Beyond PTSD: an evolving relationship between trauma theory and family violence research.	During the past 20 years, we have learned how similarly harmful are experiences of terror, violence, and abuse, whether they occur on the combat field or at home. The field of family violence has gained much from the field of traumatic stress, and collaborations between these two previously separate fields have yielded important new answers, as well as new research questions. The field of traumatic stress is poised to integrate, more fully than in the past, a variety of aspects of trauma such as social betrayal, as well as outcomes of trauma such as depression, criminality, and physiological harm that go beyond posttraumatic stress. The field of family violence has much to offer in this process. We look forward to improved research designs that will further our knowledge of how trauma affects aspects of people's lives, including productivity, relationships, cognition, and emotions, in negative and positive ways.
Trauma and violence research: taking stock in the 21st century.	Thirty years after the first national estimates of intimate partner violence were published, the field has reached such a level of maturity that complex questions can be posed and sophisticated research studies can be designed to answer them. Out of this body of research, one of the most important things that researchers have learned is that violence and trauma are experienced in different ways by different individuals and as a result, require different types of prevention and intervention approaches. With this greater understanding of the problems of violence and trauma, together with a commitment to inclusive and practical research, the field is poised to move forward toward the ultimate goal of violence prevention.
Twenty years of progress in addressing domestic violence: an agenda for the next 10.	The past 20 years have seen great strides in addressing violence against women by their male partners. Although the author cannot point to one single intervention or set of interventions as being the most effective, institutional reforms that have included coordinated community responses have had a positive impact. During the next 10 years, researchers must learn how to address the obstacles that prevent institutional responses from being more effective in addressing the needs of victims.
Domestic violence research: what have we learned and where do we go from here?	Domestic violence has been an intense area of study in recent decades. Early studies helped with the understanding of the nature of perpetration, the cycle of violence, and the effect of family violence on children. More recently, studies have focused on beginning to evaluate domestic violence interventions and their effects on recidivism. This article acknowledges the importance of what we have learned about the prevalence and impact of domestic violence and explores the need for more focused effort to pinpoint interventions that are effective with perpetrators and victims. Methodological issues relevant to past intervention studies are also discussed and future research directions are outlined.
Twenty years of progress in the study of trauma.	In this article, the authors argue that studies investigating the nature of traumatic memory have made the greatest contribution to trauma research in the past 20 years. Neuroimaging studies provide empirical support for the diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder and have important implications for the treatment of trauma survivors. In the future, the authors hope to see an empirically derived model of trauma that incorporates both mediating and moderating factors to predict outcome.
The effects of expressive writing on pain, depression and posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms in survivors of intimate partner violence.	This study examined the effects of expressive writing on depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and pain symptoms among women who have survived intimate partner violence (IPV). Forty-seven women completed baseline and four-month follow-up assessments and were randomly assigned to four writing sessions of either expressive writing focused on traumatic life events or writing about a neutral topic. Main effects were not significant for changes in depression, pain or PTSD symptoms. However, among depressed women, those assigned to expressive writing showed a significantly greater drop in depression. For depressed women with IPV histories, expressive writing may lead to reduced depression.
To have or to be: ways of caregiving identified during recovery from the earthquake disaster in Taiwan.	The aim of this article is to report the results of therapy sessions conducted with survivors of an earthquake that struck Luku Township in Nantou County, central Taiwan, in September 1999. The sessions explored survivors' feelings, interactions, and interpretations of the crisis, as well as their roles in post-earthquake relief efforts. The participants were teachers and administrators from four primary schools. The results indicated three distinct forms of caring, namely: encumbered caring, connected caring, and reflected caring. The findings were used to construct a framework for caregiver self-monitoring. They also suggest that therapy groups provide an inner space that self-regulates the frustrations arising from this type of experience, for both caregivers and survivors. The intrasubjective and intersubjective dialogues within the groups are essentially reflective practices for improving services and generating new knowledge about medical ethics.
Induced arousal and reexperiencing in acute stress disorder.	This study investigated the relationship of hyperarousal and intrusive symptoms in acute stress disorder (ASD). Civilian trauma survivors with ASD (n = 18) and without ASD (n = 14) completed a hyperventilation provocation test (HVPT) and then completed the Physical Reactions Scale. All participants provided a narrative describing their hyperventilation experience that was audiotaped and independently coded. Individuals with ASD reported greater numbers of intrusive memories and reported greater distress than non-ASD participants. More ASD than non-ASD participants experienced a flashback-type reaction during the hyperventilation. Intrusive symptoms were significantly correlated with elevated arousal following the HVPT. The findings provide evidence that reexperiencing is directly associated with elevated states of arousal.
Meeting the challenge of epidemic infectious disease outbreaks: an agenda for research.	Challenges arising from epidemic infectious disease outbreaks can be more effectively met if traditional public health is enhanced by sociology. The focus is normally on biomedical aspects, the surveillance and sentinel systems for infectious diseases, and what needs to be done to bring outbreaks under control quickly. Social factors associated with infectious disease outbreaks are often neglected and the aftermath is ignored. These factors can affect outbreak severity, its rate and extent of spread, influencing the welfare of victims, their families, and their communities. We propose an agenda for research to meet the challenges of infectious disease outbreaks. What social factors led to the outbreak? What social factors affected its severity and rate and extent of spread? How did individuals, social groups, and the state react to it? What are the short- and long-term effects on individuals, social groups, and the larger society? What programs can be put in place to help victims, their families, and affected communities to cope with the consequences--impaired mental and physical health, economic losses, and disrupted communities? Although current research on infectious disease outbreaks pays attention to social factors related to causation, severity, rate and extent of spread, those dealing with the "social chaos" arising from outbreaks are usually neglected. Inclusion, by combining traditional public health with sociological analysis, will enrich public health theory and understanding of infectious disease outbreaks. Our approach will help develop better programs to combat outbreaks and equally important, to help survivors, their families, and their communities cope better with the aftermath.
Holocaust child survivors and child sexual abuse.	This study utilized a qualitative analysis of child survivors of the Holocaust who were sexually abused during World War II. The research study aimed to give this specific group of survivors a voice and to explore the impact of multiple extreme traumas, the Holocaust and childhood sexual abuse, on the survivors. Twenty-two child survivors of the Holocaust who were sexually abused during the war completed open-ended interviews. The data was qualitatively analyzed according to Tutty, Rothery, and Grinnell's (1996) guidelines. Three major themes were found: issues relating to the sexual abuse trauma, survivors' perceptions of the abuse, and survivors' general perspectives towards life. The identity of the offenders, Jewish or non-Jewish, determined the survivors' feelings towards themselves, the perpetrators, and about the worth of life.
Understanding cancer-understanding the stories of life and living.	Storytelling is an effective and efficient educational methodology for American Indians/Alaska Natives (AIs/ANs). It has been used for hundreds of years, is well respected, and has significant implications in the oncology setting. Storytelling not only values the individual sharing the story but also offers educational information and emotional support to those who hear it.
American Indian cancer survivors: exploring social network topology and perceived social supports.	The literature on social networks and social supports attests to the powerful influence of social relationships on health; there is a dearth of such studies with American Indians/Alaska Natives.
Long-term follow-up of psychological distress following earthquake experiences among working Italian males: a cross-sectional analysis.	This report details relationships between earthquake exposures in 1980 and 1983 to 1984 and psychological distress reported in 1994. Participants are 555 Italian male factory workers from Naples, Italy. Those men who experienced damage from the 1980 quake reported higher levels of psychological distress (across several dimensions of the Symptom Checklist) than those without damage; additionally, 30% of these men reported symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). While men evacuated as a result of the 1983 to 1984 Bradyseism earthquakes did not report higher distress levels (Symptom Checklist) than their nonevacuated colleagues, they did report more PTSD-like symptoms than those not evacuated. Financial loss from the Bradyseism quakes was associated with higher distress across all measures (seven Symptom Checklist dimensions and presence of PTSD symptoms). Additionally, social network disruptions following 1983 to 1984 evacuation were associated with greater distress (not all measures). These findings suggest that psychological distress from natural disasters may be very long lasting.
Correlates of nursing staff survivor responses to hospital restructuring and downsizing.	This study examines correlates of 4 archetypal survivor responses to organizational restructuring and downsizing proposed by Mishra and Spreitzer: hopeful, obliging, cynical, and fearful. Data were collected from 744 long-term nursing staff survivors of hospital restructuring and downsizing using questionnaires. Three types of correlates were considered: work outcomes, indicators of psychologic well-being, and perceptions of hospital functioning. Greater endorsement of cynical and fearful restructuring responses was associated with more negative work outcomes and lower psychologic well-being. Greater endorsement of both cynical and fearful responses was also found to be associated with more negative perceptions of hospital functioning and effectiveness.
Comparison of post-disaster psychiatric disorders after terrorist bombings in Nairobi and Oklahoma City.	African disaster-affected populations are poorly represented in disaster mental health literature.
PTSD following terrorist attacks: a prospective evaluation.	This study evaluated the prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and the longitudinal course of early PTSD symptoms in survivors of terrorist attacks. It additionally assessed the effect of continuous terrorism on the course of early symptoms of PTSD.
Enhanced cortisol suppression following dexamethasone administration in domestic violence survivors.	The authors compared responses of female domestic violence survivors and a matched group of nontraumatized participants to a low-dose (0.5 mg) dexamethasone suppression test (DST).
Erikson's "components of a healthy personality" among Holocaust survivors immediately and 40 years after the war.	This study assessed the degree to which Holocaust survivors have dealt successfully with the eight psychosocial crises thought by Erikson (1959) to mark important stages in life-span development. In Study 1, 50 autobiographical interviews of survivors videotaped 30-50 years after the war were subjected to thematic content analysis. Relevant passages were coded as representing either a favorable or an unfavorable outcome as defined by Erikson. Survivors described significantly more favorable than unfavorable outcomes for seven of the crises; the exception was Trust vs. Mistrust. In Study 2, audiotaped Holocaust survivor interviews conducted in 1946 were scored in the same way and compared with the results of Study 1. There were several significant differences as well as similarities between the two data sets, the later interviews mostly showing changes in the positive direction.
Neuropsychological performance and quality of life of 10 year survivors of childhood medulloblastoma.	Survivors of medulloblastoma, the most frequently occurring malignant brain tumor of childhood, suffer neuropsychological damage in the first decade after diagnosis. Cognitive performance, psychosocial functioning and quality of life were assessed in medulloblastoma survivors in the second decade after diagnosis.
Three-year follow-up study of the relationship between posttraumatic stress symptoms and quality of life among earthquake survivors in Yu-Chi, Taiwan.	To prospectively evaluate the relationship between the clinical course of posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) and quality of life (QOL) among Taiwan earthquake survivors for 3 years.
The organisation and content of trauma memories in survivors of road traffic accidents.	We investigated the trauma narratives of 131 road traffic accident survivors prospectively, at 1 week, 6 weeks, and 3 months post-trauma. At 1 and 6 weeks, narratives of survivors with acute stress disorder (ASD) or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) were less coherent and included more dissociation content. By 3 months, their narratives also contained more repetition, more non-consecutive chunks, and more sensory words. Traumatic brain injury was associated with a separate characteristic, confusion, at all three time points. Three aspects of narrative organisation at 1 week--repetition, non-consecutive chunks, and coherence--predicted PTSD severity at 3 months after controlling for initial symptoms. The results suggest both a strong concurrent and predictive relationship between narrative disorganisation and ASD/PTSD but that as people recover from ASD, their narratives do not necessarily become less disorganised.
Social class, race, and ethnicity: career interventions for women domestic violence survivors.	This story describes a community intervention study conducted with women domestic violence survivors and a research dilemma related to the complex interrelationships between women's social class, race and ethnicity, and career development needs and experiences. The author presents diversity and research dilemmas related to facilitating women's critical consciousness of power dynamics at work in their lives. The influence of community context, career intervention curricula, and research team members' values on research decisions are described. This story highlights the importance of researchers examining their values and how those values impact the communities that they serve.
Psychosocial care for adult and child survivors of the 2004 tsunami disaster in India.	The tsunami disaster in South Asia affected the mental health of thousands of survivors, but psychological aspects of rehabilitation are frequently overlooked in public health initiatives. From January to March 2005, teams from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bangalore, India, traveled to south India and implemented a "train the trainer" community-based mental health program of psychosocial care to facilitate the recovery of child and adult survivors. Psychosocial care has applications to natural and man-made disasters in developing countries.
Spirituality and coping with life stress among adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse.	The purpose of this study was to explore the role of spiritual coping in adult survivors' responses to current life stressors. Although there has been research on general coping and adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse (CSA), there has been no work done on spiritual coping behaviour and survivors' current adjustment.
Factor structure of the Tonic Immobility Scale in female sexual assault survivors: an exploratory and Confirmatory Factor Analysis.	Tonic immobility (TI) is an involuntary component of the fear response that is characterized by freezing or immobility in situations involving extreme fear coupled with physical restraint. The present investigation evaluated the factor structure of the Tonic Immobility Scale (TIS; Forsyth, J. P., Marx, B., Fus, T. M. K., Heidt, J., & Gallup, G. G., Jr. (2000). The Tonic Immobility Scale. Albany, NY: Authors)--a newly developed measure to assess components of TI in female sexual assault survivors. Study 1 (N=88) consisted of an Exploratory Factor Analysis of sexual assault survivors' responses on the TIS, whereas Study 2 (N=191) involved a Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) with a second independent sample of female sexual assault survivors. Findings from both studies suggest that the TIS is comprised of two independent factors: physical immobility and fear. Findings are discussed in terms of the theoretical and practical implications of the factor solution obtained, particularly with regard to evaluating TI in adult survivors of sexual assault.
Breast surgery: minimally invasive diagnosis and treatment.	The increasingly large proportion of elderly women in the United States population carries a disproportionate burden of breast cancer. The advent of minimally invasive surgical techniques applicable to breast disease has brought new opportunities to diagnose and treat breast cancer in the older population. This article reviews issues important to the evolving field of breast cancer management in older women: cancer risk and screening considerations, diagnosis and biopsy approaches, and surgical treatment options based on current studies and recommendations.
Adaptive sampling: recruiting a diverse community sample of survivors of sexual violence.	Accessing vulnerable and hard-to-reach populations is a significant challenge for nurse researchers. Adaptive sampling is a procedure that has been used effectively in community-based research to recruit rare or hidden populations. Structured community assessment, as practiced by community health nurses, can be used to enhance adaptive sampling procedures to recruit research participants. This article(1) describes adaptive sampling techniques, discusses how the techniques can be enhanced with a structured nursing community assessment, and describes how adaptive sampling was used successfully by nurse researchers to obtain a diverse and vulnerable community sample for a grounded-theory study of women's and men's responses to sexual violence.
Psychometric properties of an African symptoms check list scale: the Ndetei-Othieno-Kathuku scale.	To profile and quantify the psychometric properties of the NOK (Ndetei-Othieno-Kathuku) scale against internationally used Gold-standards and benchmarks for mild psychiatric disorders and post-traumatic stress disorders and to provide a potential easy to administer culture sensitive instrument for screening and assessing those with possible psychiatric disorders for the Kenyan and similar social-cultural situations.
Risk factors for psychological and physical health problems after a man-made disaster. Prospective study.	There are few prospective studies on risk factors for health problems after disasters in which actual pre-disaster health data are available.
A qualitative study of anterior resection syndrome: the experiences of cancer survivors who have undergone resection surgery.	This study aimed to explore how individuals recovered and adapted following surgical resection of their rectal cancer and the syndrome that occurs as a consequence of this operation. This syndrome, 'anterior resection syndrome', consists of frequency, urgency, fragmentation and incontinence of faeces, and is thought to occur in 90% of patients who have received this type of surgery. Little qualitative research has been undertaken in this area, and this study adds to current quality of life data and explores supportive care strategies that nurses could use to assist patients. This study uses a grounded theory approach and in-depth interviews to explore patient's experiences. Participants were recruited from a cancer unit within the UK. Participants were recruited from a total population sample of 27 patients who had received surgery from 2001 to 2002. Following eligibility criteria to exclude those who had disease progression, seven patients were identified 1 year following surgery. Interviews were used to explore the experience of the syndrome. Three categories were identified: adapting to the physical changes, psychological adaptation and stigma. A secondary theme, running throughout all these categories, was the feeling of confidence and normality. Although the physical changes were expected as a consequence of surgery, most participants described the difficulty in controlling and managing symptoms in their period of recovery. Developing a philosophical stance was important in managing the lack of control and returning to perceived normality, despite the social stigma of bowel problems. Information on a range of strategies to manage physical symptoms is helpful in providing supportive care. Understanding that patients often rely on inappropriate strategies for management and are reluctant to discuss symptoms is important. The specialist nurse has a role in providing supportive care in managing chronic symptoms following cancer treatment.
Predictors of psychological distress in survivors of the 1999 earthquakes in Turkey: effects of relocation after the disaster.	Relocations after disasters are known to cause added distress in survivors. This study examined the effects of migration and other factors on psychological status of survivors 4 years after the two severe earthquakes in Turkey.
Memory performance in older trauma survivors: implications for the longitudinal course of PTSD.	Impaired declarative memory performance and smaller hippocampal volume have been observed in young and middle-aged adults with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). These alterations may put trauma survivors with PTSD at greater risk for cognitive decline in later life. This article focuses on the emerging literature on neuropsychological impairment in aging trauma survivors, in particular, elderly combat veterans and survivors of the Holocaust. In veterans and in Holocaust survivors, PTSD was associated with substantial impairments in learning, free and cued recall, and recognition memory compared to the respective nonexposed subjects; however, in neither group was PTSD associated with impaired retention or "rapid forgetting." Additionally, PTSD was not associated with smaller right or left hippocampal volume in either cohort. PTSD is associated with considerable cognitive burden with age. Longitudinal studies of older subjects are warranted to examine whether PTSD is associated with accelerated aging or progressive memory loss.
Longitudinal assessment of dissociation in Holocaust survivors with and without PTSD and nonexposed aged Jewish adults.	The trajectory of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and PTSD-related symptoms in relation to aging is not well understood. We previously observed higher levels of dissociation as measured by the Dissociative Experiences Scale (DES) among older Holocaust survivors with, compared to those without, PTSD, though scores on the DES in Holocaust survivors were markedly lower than those that had been reported for younger cohorts. We undertook a longitudinal evaluation of dissociation in Holocaust survivors. Twenty-six Holocaust survivors with current PTSD, 30 Holocaust survivors without current PTSD, and 19 nonexposed were evaluated at the initial evaluation and subsequently 8.11 years later. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) on the DES scores from these times demonstrated a significant main effect for time and a significant group by time interaction, reflecting a marked decline in Holocaust survivors, particularly those with PTSD. Controlling for age obliterated the effect of time, but not the group by time interaction. A similar pattern was shown with The Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) scores. Different symptoms related to PTSD show different trajectories of change with age, with dissociation appearing to be less prominent with age.
Are adult offspring reliable informants about parental PTSD? A validation study.	We developed a short questionnaire--Parental PTSD Questionnaire--(PPQ), designed to assess the presence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms in parents. Fifty-eight adult offspring of Holocaust survivors (23 men and 35 women) completed the questionnaire about a parent who was independently evaluated by a trained clinician using the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS). Only 5.2% of the offspring reported, "not knowing" if their parent had experienced 10 or fewer symptoms, while 56.9% provided estimates for all 17 items. There were no significant differences between lifetime frequencies of the individual symptoms as endorsed on the PPQ compared to the CAPS when subjects with completed PPQs were compared with CAPS. Interrater reliability between offspring and clinician was highly significant for each of the items when evaluated separately so as to include data for subjects who endorsed not knowing if a certain symptom had been present. Further studies are warranted to examine the psychometric properties of this measure.
The neurobiology of stress and development.	Stress is a part of every life to varying degrees, but individuals differ in their stress vulnerability. Stress is usefully viewed from a biological perspective; accordingly, it involves activation of neurobiological systems that preserve viability through change or allostasis. Although they are necessary for survival, frequent neurobiological stress responses increase the risk of physical and mental health problems, perhaps particularly when experienced during periods of rapid brain development. Recently, advances in noninvasive measurement techniques have resulted in a burgeoning of human developmental stress research. Here we review the anatomy and physiology of stress responding, discuss the relevant animal literature, and briefly outline what is currently known about the psychobiology of stress in human development, the critical role of social regulation of stress neurobiology, and the importance of individual differences as a lens through which to approach questions about stress experiences during development and child outcomes.
Understanding physical activity in adolescent cancer survivors: an application of the theory of planned behavior.	Notwithstanding the remarkable achievements in survival, there is a growing recognition that pediatric cancer survivors are faced with a variety of chronic health problems that may be exacerbated by maladaptive health behaviors. The purpose of the present study was to examine the utility of the theory of planned behavior (TPB) in understanding adolescent survivors' motivation to engage in physical activity. A group of adolescent cancer survivors recalled their beliefs, attitudes, norms, perceptions of control, intentions and post-treatment physical activity behaviors using a self-administered, mailed questionnaire in a retrospective design. Multiple regression analyses revealed that the TPB explained 29.1% of the variance in physical activity behavior, with the significant independent correlates being intention (beta=0.31,p=0.023) and self-efficacy (beta=0.42,p=0.04). For intention, 33.7% of the variance was explained by the TPB, with affective attitude (beta=0.32,p=0.016) and instrumental attitude (beta=0.31, p=0.037) making significant unique contributions. The present study has provided some of the first data toward understanding physical activity behavior in adolescent cancer survivors. Specifically, the results suggest that interventions designed to promote physical activity in this population should focus on the development of a positive attitude as well as fostering an enhanced sense of self-efficacy.
The role of social cognitive processing theory and optimism in positive psychosocial and physical behavior change after cancer diagnosis and treatment.	The physical and psychosocial 'health' behaviors of cancer patients have become a more pressing issue as 5-year survival rates continue to rise. This study investigated: (a) the extent of positive change in four psychosocial behaviors and two physical health behaviors, (b) the role of psychosocial predictors (drawn from theories of Social Cognitive Processing and optimism) in positive behavior change after cancer diagnosis and treatment, and (c) the possible influence of social desirability in reports of positive psychosocial and physical behavior change. The behavior showing the greatest positive change was time spent reflecting on life priorities; the behavior that was least likely to change after diagnosis and treatment was exercise. Optimism, social support, and cancer-related intrusions were positively associated with increases in physical health behaviors. Only optimism was positively associated with increases in psychosocial behaviors. Reports of positive change in physical and psychosocial behaviors were only modestly correlated. Social desirability was unrelated to reports of positive behavior change. Results are interpreted in light of theories of adaptation to cancer diagnosis and treatment.
Social support and adolescent cancer survivors: A review of the literature.	With survival rates increasing dramatically in pediatric cancer, concern has increasingly focused on the psychosocial aspects of the cancer experience. Clearly, the experience of a cancer diagnosis and treatment of cancer places high demands on the coping of adolescents. Research has shown social support to be effective in decreasing stress and enhancing coping in adolescents facing such demands. A review and critical analysis of studies of social support in adolescent cancer survivors was conducted. The seventeen studies were mainly descriptive and exploratory in nature with social support examined for a number of outcome variables in eight of the studies. Findings from this review indicate that support from parents (especially the mother) and friends were extremely important and that the adolescents were satisfied with family support. Support from friends was described as less satisfactory. Methodological concerns of the reviewed studies include small samples and a lack of consistency in the instruments used to assess social support. Future studies of social support for adolescent cancer survivors should include larger samples to determine gender, age group, and ethnic differences and to allow the examination of social support theoretical models specific to the developmental and chronic illness situation of these adolescents.
Physical impairment and social adaptation in adult survivors of childhood and adolescent rhabdomyosarcoma: A report from the Childhood Cancer Survivors Study.	Despite interest in the well-being of adult survivors of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), few studies have examined their health-related quality of life (HRQOL). This study evaluated physical and social aspects of HRQOL among long-term childhood RMS survivors relative to a sibling comparison group, and assessed whether physical impairment among RMS survivors adversely affected their ability to achieve adult life goals.
Screening childhood cancer survivors with the brief symptom inventory-18: classification agreement with the symptom checklist-90-revised.	The Brief Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18) is an 18-item symptom checklist used as a brief distress screening in cancer and other medical patients. This study evaluated the validity of the BSI-18 in a sample of 221 adult survivors of childhood cancers ages 18-55 (median = 26). Validity of the BSI-18 was compared to the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R). Results indicated the BSI-18 scales had acceptable internal consistency (alpha >0.80) and were highly correlated with the corresponding SCL-90-R subscales (correlations from 0.88 to 0.94). When subjects were classified as case positive (significantly distressed) using the BSI-18 manual case-rule, classification agreement with the SCL-90-R was poor as evidenced by low sensitivity (41.78%). An alternative BSI-18 case-rule previously developed for cancer patients using the General Severity Index (GSI; GSI t-score >or=57) demonstrated better sensitivity (83.54%). ROC analysis indicated the BSI-18 had strong diagnostic utility relative to the SCL-90-R (AUC = 0.98) and several possible GSI cut-off scores were evaluated. The optimal cut-of score was a t-score >or=50 which had a sensitivity of 97.47% and a specificity of 85.21%. Results support use of the BSI-18 with adult survivors of childhood cancer but indicate an alternative case-rule must be used.
Developing a health-related quality of life instrument for childhood brain tumor survivors.	With improved treatment, many childhood brain tumor survivors live through adulthood. A psychometrically sound instrument, which can capture their unique experiences through the lifetime, is needed. This paper documents the development of the Pediatric Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Childhood Brain Tumor Survivor (PedsFACT-BrS) for use with survivors for at least 1 year posttreatment.
Quality of life of nasopharyngeal carcinoma survivors in Mainland China.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the quality of life (QoL) of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) survivors. 192 NPC survivors treated in 1999 and 2000 were enrolled in this study. Median follow up was 3.6 years (range 2.4-4.6 years). The Chinese SF-36 questionnaire and a self-reported symptom checklist consisting of 14 items were completed at clinics. Sociodemographic factors and clinical information were also collected. Most functional domains of the Chinese SF-36 were significantly worse in NPC survivors compared to the normal population. Xerostomia, hearing loss, hypomnesia, dysphagia, and trismus were frequently reported symptoms. Sociodemographic variables including gender, age, dialect, educational level, monthly income, economic status, and number of comorbidities were univariate predictors of different SF-36 domains and symptoms. Patients with earlier T and N stage, irradiated by linear accelerator, with lower dose and weekly dose to nasopharynx and neck, and those who had anterior nasal radiation field reported better QoL. Multiple stepwise regression analysis showed that the number of comorbidities, monthly income, age, and T stage were independent factors affecting global QoL. We concluded that NPC survivors had worse QoL than the normal population and improving radiotherapy might increase physical and functional domain of QoL.
Impact of early lifetime trauma in later life: depression among Holocaust survivors 60 years after the liberation of Auschwitz.	Holocaust survivors, who experienced trauma 60 years ago, provide an opportunity to explore the impact of early lifetime trauma in later life and, in particular, the interplay of depression and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In this study, the authors contrast depressed Holocaust survivors (HD), nondepressed Holocaust survivors (HND), and older depressed persons (CD).
Pilot evaluation of hypnosis for the treatment of hot flashes in breast cancer survivors.	This single arm, pilot study investigated the use of hypnosis to reduce hot flashes in 16 breast cancer survivors. Each patient provided baseline data and received 4 weekly sessions of hypnosis that followed a standardized transcript. Patients were also instructed in self-hypnosis. Throughout the clinical care, patients completed daily diaries of the frequency and severity of their hot flashes. Patients also completed baseline and post-treatment ratings of the degree to which hot flashes interfered with daily activities and quality of life. Results indicated a 59% decrease in total daily hot flashes and a 70% decrease in weekly hot flash scores from their baselines. There was also a significant decrease in the degree to which hot flashes interfered with daily activities for all measures including work, social activities, leisure activities, sleep, mood, concentration, relations with others, sexuality, enjoyment of life, and overall quality of life. This pilot study suggests that clinical hypnosis may be an effective non-hormonal and non-pharmacological treatment for hot flashes. A randomized, controlled clinical trial is planned to more definitively elucidate the efficacy and applicability of hypnosis for reducing hot flashes.
Vitality, mental health, and satisfaction with information after breast cancer.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between satisfaction with information about treatment-related and survivorship issues and mental health outcomes, including vitality, in long-term breast cancer survivors.
Classifying the torture experiences of refugees living in the United States.	Few research studies have systematically categorized the types of torture experienced around the world. The purpose of this study is to categorize the diverse traumatic events that are defined as torture, and determine how these torture types relate to demographics and symptom presentation. Data for 325 individuals were obtained through a retrospective review of records from the Bellevue/NYU for Survivors of Torture. A factor analysis generated a model with five factors corresponding to witnessing torture of others, torture of family members, physical beating, rape/sexual assault, and deprivation/passive torture. These factors were significantly correlated with a number of demographic variables (sex, education, and region of origin). Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, anxiety, and depression symptoms were significantly correlated with the rape factor but no other factors were uniquely associated with psychological distress. The results offer insight into the nature of torture and differences in responses.
Effects of parental PTSD on the cortisol response to dexamethasone administration in their adult offspring.	The authors used a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test to examine the effect of a PTSD risk factor, parental PTSD, on cortisol negative feedback inhibition in adult offspring of Holocaust survivors with PTSD (N=13) versus without PTSD (N=12) as well as a comparison group of offspring whose parents had no Holocaust exposure (N=16).
The OVIS study: health related quality of life measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 and -BR23 in German female patients with breast cancer from Schleswig-Holstein.	The OVIS study is a population-based study that aims at evaluating medical care in Schleswig-Holstein (Germany). In this paper, the health related quality of life (QoL, EORTC QLQ-C30 and -BR23) of 1,927 women with breast cancer is reported. The global health status/QoL score was comparable to reference data of the age-adjusted German general population, but clinical meaningful differences (> or = 10 points) were found for all functioning scales (with the exception of physical functioning) and for three of the symptom scales/items (fatigue, dyspnoe, insomnia) with OVIS patients showing more deficits. Furthermore, OVIS patients scored higher on the item financial difficulties. Logistic regression analyses revealed that coming from an urban surrounding, having a higher social status and attendance to a regular aftercare predicted a good overall QoL, while factors that were related to perceived complications in the course of the therapy raised the risk for a low QoL rating. It is of interest, that attendance to a rehabilitation and interest in self-help groups independently predicted an increased risk for a low quality of life. Overall, we assume the global QoL is rating slightly too optimistic since major deficits were reported on the specific physical and functional scales/items.
Psychological assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of torture survivors: a review.	While reliable estimates of the worldwide prevalence of torture are difficult to obtain, reports from human rights groups such as Amnesty International suggest that instances of torture are reaching near epidemic levels. Torture is a human behavioral phenomenon that is critically understudied, and the effects of torture may trickle down into future generations of the victim. The current paper discusses the psychological assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of torture victims, reasons for studying the sequelae of torture, and attempts to address how psychologists can become more involved.
Long-term prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms in patients after secondary peritonitis.	The aim of this study was to determine the long-term prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptomology in patients following secondary peritonitis and to determine whether the prevalence of PTSD-related symptoms differed between patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and patients admitted only to the surgical ward.
The association between neuropsychological impairment, self-perceived cognitive deficits, fatigue and health related quality of life in breast cancer survivors following standard adjuvant versus high-dose chemotherapy.	The possible association between neuropsychological impairment, self-perceived cognitive deficits, fatigue and health related quality of life has been studied in high-risk breast cancer survivors 5 years following standard adjuvant (n=23) versus high-dose chemotherapy (n=24) and in early-stage breast cancer patients (n=29) (comparison group) following radiation therapy.
Quality of life among long-term non-Hodgkin lymphoma survivors: a population-based study.	The objective of this population-based study was to document the long-term effects (5-15 years postdiagnosis) of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and its treatment on health-related quality of life (HRQL) and social problems.
Care-planning meetings with stroke survivors: nurses as moderators of the communication.	Stroke survivors often have communicative disabilities. They should, however, be involved when decisions are made about their care treatment.
Assessment of Survivor Concerns (ASC): a newly proposed brief questionnaire.	The purpose of this study was to design a brief questionnaire to measure fears about recurrence and health in cancer survivors. Research involving fear of recurrence has been increasing, indicating that it is an important concern among cancer survivors.
Post-traumatic stress disorder among survivors of Bam earthquake 40 days after the event.	To investigate the point prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in a group of survivors of the Barn 2003 earthquake, 145 participants (83 females and 62 males) were studied using structured interviews according to PTSD Symptom Scale (PSS) and Revised Impact of Event Scale (R-IES) items. The mean number of first and second order family members who had died in the disaster was 75.7, range 0 to 350 persons. About 81% of the participants were eligible for PTSD diagnosis according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV or DSM IV-TR) criteria. No significant correlation was found between demographic variables or history of psychiatric illness and measures of psychological distress.
Adverse late effects of childhood cancer and its treatment on health and performance.	More than 12,000 newly diagnosed cases of cancer occur each year in the United States among children ages 20 years or younger, and the current 5-year survival rate is near 80%. An estimated 228,000 among adults 47 years or younger and currently living in the United States had a diagnosis of cancer during childhood or adolescence. Here, we review long-term adverse effects of childhood cancer and its treatment with an emphasis on physical performance and health. We also briefly review existing guidelines that may be used to develop appropriate exercise and diet interventions for childhood cancer survivors. We suggest that there is a need for development of evidence-based, risk-based guidelines and interventions for health promotion among long-term childhood cancer survivors, particularly for those whose physical activity limitations interfere with chances for optimizing their bodies' potential in today's society.
Providing services to survivors of domestic violence: a comparison of rural and urban service provider perceptions.	Although there is a considerable body of knowledge about domestic violence, a limited proportion focuses on domestic violence in rural settings. Using a nonprobability purposive sampling technique, 93 providers of domestic violence services from rural and urban localities in North Carolina and Virginia were located and asked to complete a self-administered survey soliciting provider perceptions about service consumers, the general public, themselves, and inter- and intra-agency issues. Significant differences were observed between rural and urban providers about service consumer needs and experiences, perceptions about the general public, area resource availability, agency funding, provider training, and worker safety. Implications of these differences are discussed.
Implications of parental suicide and violent death for promotion of resilience of parentally-bereaved children.	This article considers the implications of suicide and violent deaths (including suicide, homicide, and accidents) for the development of interventions for parentally bereaved children. Analyses of data from the Family Bereavement Program find minimal differences in children's mental health problems, grief or risk and protective factors based on cause of parental death. In addition, cause of death did not substantially affect the relations between risk and protective factors and bereaved children's outcomes. It is concluded that cause of death from violence or suicide is not a very useful indicator of bereaved children's need for or likelihood of benefiting from an intervention.
Recurrent trauma: Holocaust survivors cope with aging and cancer.	The current study aims to determine whether elderly Holocaust survivors are affected differently from non-survivors by the adversity of aging and cancer.
Trends in complementary/alternative medicine use by breast cancer survivors: comparing survey data from 1998 and 2005.	Use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) by women with breast cancer is often said to be increasing, yet few data exist to confirm this commonly held belief. The purpose of this paper is to compare overall patterns of CAM use, as well as use of specific products and therapies at two different points in time (1998 vs 2005) by women diagnosed with breast cancer.
Perceptions of victims and perpetrators in a depicted child sexual abuse case: gender and age factors.	This study investigated the roles of respondent, perpetrator, and victim gender on attributions toward a 10- or 15-year-old victim and an adult perpetrator in a hypothetical sexual abuse case. It was predicted (a) that female respondents would be more provictim and antiperpetrator than men, (b) that 10-year-old victims would be deemed more credible than 15-year-olds, and (c) that men would deem a 15-year-old male victim more culpable when child sexual abuse is perpetrated by a female abuser. Three hundred thirty-seven respondents read a 350-word sexual abuse depiction in which victim age, victim gender, and perpetrator gender were varied between respondents. Respondents then completed a 14-item attribution scale, relating to victim blame, perpetrator blame, assault severity, and victim credibility. A series of ANOVAs revealed support for all predictions. Results are discussed in relation to gender role attitudes. Suggestions for future work also considered.
Exploring the feasibility of email-mediated interaction in survivors of abuse.	There is a growing use of email-based provision of information, development of health-related skills and interventions; however, use of email to assist women and children experiencing abuse after receiving Protection from Abuse (PFA) court order has not been explored. The specific aim of this research was to test the feasibility of an email device called MIVO for use in interacting with women and children after receiving PFA. This qualitative design used a three-step recruitment, screening and email interaction with mothers and their adolescent child after obtaining informed consent and training in the use of an email device. Sample included six pairs of mother and child (n = 12) who have received a PFA within the past 6 months. Demographic data were gathered using the sociodemographic questionnaire. Qualitative data were gathered using email messages from mother and child pairs. Results showed that email interaction is a feasible and acceptable way of providing support and information to survivors of abuse after their PFA. The following themes in their order and rank of appearance were found in the email interaction between the nurse and survivors: (1) safety issues; (2) job-related issues; (3) school-related issues; (4) parenting-related issues; and (5) health-related issues. Themes identified for the children were school work and friends. Privacy, confidentiality and respect for individual rights are paramount in email interactions. Email interaction is useful in education, screening, safety instructions and follow-up care. Technological devices such as MIVO may have usefulness as an email interaction device among women, their child and a nurse to reduce their risk for further interpersonal violence/abuse and to increase disclosure of abuse. Healthcare providers need to identify technological developments, and through evidence-based research examine their feasibility and adaptability for translation into practice specifically, in caring for survivors of abuse.
Problem-solving early intervention: a pilot study of stroke caregivers.	Caregivers (CGs) of stroke survivors assume their role suddenly and with little preparation. Negative emotions are common, persist over time, and are related to other negative outcomes. This pilot study, guided by a coping model, examined the efficacy and durability of a caregiver problem-solving intervention (CPSI) on CG and stroke survivor outcomes. Additional aims included assessment of feasibility issues and reliability and sensitivity of the study measures. The nonrandom sample of 15 stroke CGs was matched on depression and demographics with a comparison group. The CPSI started during acute rehabilitation and continued through 2 months after discharge. Parametric and nonparametric tests were used to assess achievement of the aims. CG depression, anxiety, preparedness, and survivor motor function improved significantly in the intervention group over time. Burden, life changes, and taking care of CG's own needs did not change significantly. CPSI group CG depression significantly improved compared with the matched group. The improvement in outcomes for the CPSI group supports further testing of the intervention with a large sample.
Late-onset schizophrenia in child survivors of the holocaust.	According to the stress diathesis model, the probability of psychosis is increased in high-risk groups, a vulnerable one being the Holocaust child survivors. This study was conducted to inquire into the long-term effects of their Holocaust experience. We concentrated on a possible association between the onset of schizophrenia and the degree of persecution. Ninety-three medical files of Holocaust child survivors were recruited from sociomedical expert reports of the Restitution Office in Germany. The onset of schizophrenia was used as dependent variable in a categorical regression model. Regarding schizophrenia, exclusively late-onset schizophrenia could be diagnosed in our sample. Schizophrenia was significantly associated with the highest category of persecution (Fisher exact test, p < 0.001). In the categorical regression model, the category of persecution was a significant coefficient, only (F = 23.9, p < 0.001). The strong association between late onset of schizophrenia and the degree of persecution suggest an influence of stress exposure.
Psychopathological syndromes and the problem of youth sexual orientation]	The objective of the paper is to present of ideas on relationships between sexual orientation and sanity of individuals.
Long-term psychological outcome of 1999 Taiwan earthquake survivors: a survey of a high-risk sample with property damage.	Severe natural disasters can cause long-term psychological impact on the survivors. This study aimed to examine the prevalence and risk factors of posttraumatic stress symptoms and psychiatric morbidity among survivors of the severe earthquake that occurred in Chi-Chi, Taiwan, in September 21, 1999.
Social and romantic outcomes in emerging adulthood among survivors of childhood cancer.	To examine social and romantic outcomes among survivors of childhood cancer and comparison peers during the transition from adolescence to emerging adulthood.
The impact of resource loss on Holocaust survivors facing war and terrorism in Israel.	We examined the distress level of 102 Holocaust survivors in Israel during a recent period of continuous exposure of the Israeli population to terror and the threat of missile attack. Based on the Conservation of Resources (COR) theory, we explored the contribution of losses suffered during the Holocaust and of current loss of resources due to terror attacks on their distress level. Twenty one percent of the sample had probable PTSD and high psychological distress levels in general. Current loss of psychosocial resources contributed significantly to survivors' current PTSD symptomatology and general psychological distress, above the contribution of the previous Holocaust-related loss. Our findings support COR theory, which states that traumatic events are associated with ongoing and often rapid loss of resources. Resource loss, in turn, is associated with higher distress levels. Moreover, current loss of resources compounds the impact of earlier resource losses incurred during the Holocaust.
Overgeneral memory and suppression of trauma memories in post-traumatic stress disorder.	The study investigated the relationship between the suppression of trauma memories and overgeneral memory in 42 assault survivors with and without PTSD. Overgeneral memory (OGM) was assessed with a standard autobiographical memory test (AMT). Participants completed two further AMTs under the instructions to either suppress or not suppress assault memories, in counterbalanced order. Participants with PTSD retrieved fewer and more general memories when following the suppression instruction than participants without PTSD, but not under the control instruction. OGM correlated with PTSD symptom severity, and measures of cognitive avoidance. The results are discussed with reference to current theories of overgeneral memory and its possible relationship with PTSD.
Escaping the triple trap: coping strategies of pregnant adolescent survivors of domestic violence in Mulago hospital, Uganda.	Why domestic violence survivors develop adverse outcomes following domestic violence during pregnancy is unclear, but may depend on how survivors cope with the stress of violence. The objective was to describe strategies pregnant adolescents employ in coping with domestic violence.
The staying power of pain. A comparison of torture survivors from Bosnia and Colombia and their rates of anxiety, depression and PTSD.	The article describes symptoms of anxiety, depression and PTSD among Bosnian (n=17) and Colombian (n=17) torture survivors served by the Florida Center for Survivors of Torture, a programme of Gulf Coast Jewish Family Services, Inc. Information from clients enrolled in the programme for six months or more was collated over a 14 month period in order to better prioritize and design services for the two distinct populations. On average, the Bosnians in this sample experienced torture approximately 14 years ago while the Colombians'experience was approximately six years ago. Types of torture experienced by clients are documented using HURIDOCS and the number of family and friends affected by extreme trauma are counted. Employment and education levels attained are also identified. Findings show that 100% of Bosnians are symptomatic for depression and over half possess symptoms of PTSD compared to 35% of Colombians for depression and 18% for PTSD, despite the differences in years since trauma occurred. High incidences of torture experienced by Bosnian clients and high numbers of family and friends affected support the high rates of symptoms. For the Colombian clients, high rates of employment and years of education, as well as earlier intervention, may contribute to their lower rates of symptoms. The two client groups are distinguished by the unique circumstances experienced by each, including punctuated wartime versus a prolonged insurgency, as well as the refugee versus asylum seeker experience. This exploratory project informs the torture treatment model while recognizing the importance of ethnic, political and cultural perspectives affecting the healing process.
Consequences among protest survivors of 2006 in Nepal.	This study is based on the secondary data gathered from various health institutions, human right organizations, a political party and news agencies in Nepal. The Centre for Victims of Torture (CVICT) has its own primary data of traumatized victims from the mobile medical rescue team and from observing for human rights violations. There have been gross human rights abuses. Even the rescue team was not found to be safe from the incident. Moreover, the head and neck along with the vital organs of the body were made the target. The injured people were managed in different hospitals. Many victims suffer from the aftermath of this brutality through combat fatigue, also called acute crisis reaction. They are in need of comprehensive rehabilitation in the form of medical, psychological and social assistance.
Long-term effects of trauma: psychosocial functioning of the second and third generation of Holocaust survivors.	The long-term effects of extreme war-related trauma on the second and the third generation of Holocaust survivors (HS) were examined in 88 middle-class families. Differences in functioning between adult offspring of HS (HSO) and a comparison group, as well as the psychosocial functioning of adolescent grandchildren of HS, were studied. Degree of presence of Holocaust in the family was examined in families in which both parents were HSO, either mother or father was HSO, and neither parent was HSO. Mothers' Holocaust background was associated with higher levels of psychological distress and less positive parenting representations. In line with synergic (multiplicative) models of risk, adolescents in families where both parents were HSO perceived their mothers as less accepting and less encouraging independence, and reported less positive self-perceptions than their counterparts. They also perceived their fathers as less accepting and less encouraging independence, showed higher levels of ambivalent attachment style, and according to their peers, demonstrated poorer adjustment during military basic training than their fellow recruits from the one-parent HSO group. Parents and adolescents in the one-parent HSO group functioned similarly to others with no Holocaust background. Parenting variables mediated the association across generations between degree of Holocaust experience in the family of origin of the parents and ambivalent attachment style and self-perception of the adolescents. It is recommended that researchers and clinicians develop awareness of the possible traces of trauma in the second and the third generation despite their sound functioning in their daily lives.
From "invincibility" to "normalcy": coping strategies of young adults during the cancer journey.	Little research has been undertaken regarding the psychological impact of cancer on those stricken during the young adult years. Specifically, research on the coping strategies of young adults with cancer is limited.
Post-traumatic stress disorder and comorbid depression among survivors of the 1999 earthquake in Turkey.	This study examined the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and comorbid depression some three years after the August 1999 earthquake in Turkey among a sample of 769 survivors relocated to a permanent housing site built for homeless survivors in the epicentre region. Time since trauma was 3.1 years for 81 per cent of the participants and 3.9 years for the remainder. Survivors were assessed using the Screening Instrument for Traumatic Stress in Earthquake Survivors, an easily administered self-rating scale with demonstrated validity. The estimated rates of PTSD and comorbid depression were 40 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively. Linear regression analyses showed that PTSD strongly related to fear during the earthquake, while depression related to loss of family members. These results suggest that catastrophic earthquakes have long-term psychological consequences and highlight the need for a cost-effective mental health care model for earthquake survivors.
Gender and Hurricane Mitch: reconstructing subjectivities after disaster.	Much of the gender and disaster literature calls for more gender-sensitive disaster relief and research by focusing on the ways in which women are more vulnerable in a disaster or on their unique capabilities as community leaders or natural resource managers, which are often overlooked or underutilised in emergency management strategies. As well as seeking to overcome the (strategic) essentialism that is part of these calls and debates, this paper pays closer attention to gender identity and subjectivity as these are constructed and reworked through the disaster process to highlight the complexities and contradictions associated with women's responses to a disaster. This focus, while crucial to gaining a deeper understanding of the gendered dimensions of disaster, also complicates attempts to create more gender-sensitive frameworks for disaster response. It draws on qualitative research conducted with a number of women in the wake of Hurricane Mitch (1998) in Nicaragua.
Artworks, collective experience and claims for social justice: the case of women living with breast cancer.	This article discusses the role of 'artworks' produced by women with breast cancer in the context of breast cancer activism. We argue that such works play a key role in making visible and collective the ideological issues surrounding this disease. They do this through their potential for anchoring social practices relating to its treatment and what might be done about it (Klawiter 2004, Swidler 2001). The article focuses upon the work of two women artists diagnosed with breast cancer--the British photographer Jo Spence, and Martha Hall, an American who made artist's books. We examine specific works from these collections, and the context of their production. In this way we show how and why artworks are important in establishing visual and discursive space related to social practices associated with disease regimes, and how they provide emancipatory potential for women living with breast cancer. We argue that artworks work through and on bodies to enable a redemptive and emancipatory potential. As mediators of representations of illness, they deserve attention from sociologists researching social movements, the sharing of illness experience and strategies for survival.
Spousal caregiving for stroke survivors.	Caregiving for a spouse who has survived a stroke has multidimensional implications for both the partner and the spousal caregiver. A phenomenological study was conducted to examine the experiences of spousal caregivers for stroke survivors. Eight spouses who met the inclusion criteria participated in the study. van Manen's (1997) approach was used to examine the spousal caregivers' experiences. Data were collected through audiotapes from semistructured interviews. The interviews were transcribed to form textual descriptions of the caregivers' experiences. Six interrelated themes emerged through data analysis: experiencing a profound sense of loss, adjusting to a new relationship with a spouse, taking on new responsibilities, feeling the demands of caregiving, having to depend on the support of others, and maintaining hope and optimism. This study contributes to healthcare providers' understanding and knowledge of spousal caregivers for stroke survivors, and supports the need for continued research in this area.
Performance characteristics of depression screening instruments in survivors of acute myocardial infarction: review of the evidence.	Authors conducted a systematic review to assess performance characteristics of depression screening instruments after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Among the seven studies identified, the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the depression subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-D) were used most frequently. Studies were generally of low quality, and no screening instrument performed notably better than others. Future research should compare the BDI and the HADS-D with instruments such as the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9 and PHQ-2) in post-AMI patients, should attend to important elements of the screening process, including when, where, and how often to screen patients, and should evaluate serial screening.
Wading in the waters: spirituality and older black Katrina survivors.	Hurricane Katrina has drawn increased interest in coping strategies, spirituality, and mental health among low-income Blacks. Given the paucity of information available regarding the role of spirituality in surviving Hurricane Katrina, this qualitative study explores active coping strategies of older Blacks. Older respondents who were evacuated to a Texas retirement apartment complex participated in a series of three in-depth interviews (starting approximately three weeks after their arrival in the host state and continuing weekly). Without exception, the findings indicate that this population coped with Katrina and its aftermath through reliance on a Higher Power. The relationship to a Higher Power did not necessarily translate into church membership. The conclusions of the respondents' spiritual coping mechanisms revealed the following themes: 1) regular communication with a supernatural power; 2) miracles of faith through this source of guidance and protection; 3) daily reading of the Bible and various spiritual and devotional materials; and 4) helping others as a consequence of faith and devotion to a supreme being. This study indicates that spirituality promotes emotional resilience in the aftermath of traumatic events such as Hurricane Katrina. These findings also point to the need for researchers to reconsider expressions of spirituality based solely on church membership/attendance and prayer, and to consider redefining spiritual coping as a form of cultural capital.
Katrina-related health concerns of Latino survivors and evacuees.	This article examines health concerns identified by Latinos who resided in the path of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans and Mississippi. Data were collected for this qualitative descriptive study through individual, open-ended interviews with 93 Latino survivors and evacuees in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Georgia. Findings describe health concerns and experiences, including hunger, environmental health risks, sleep disturbances, and access to health care for acute and chronic conditions. Health and illness factored into personal and family decisions on whether or not to stay, evacuate, or return home following the storm. Problems accessing health care were compounded for the undocumented and uninsured. The findings have implications for further disaster research and may inform emergency preparedness policy development and the planning and implementation of disaster-related health care services for Latinos and other minority and underserved groups.
Current aspects of oncological rehabilitation]	On completion of acute medical treatment oncological rehabilitation serves the purpose of re-integrating the patient into the everyday situation, family and working life, while at the same time improving his/her quality of life. The aims of outpatient or inpatient rehabilitation are based on an individual analysis of both physical and psychosocial problems and are implemented within the framework of an interdisciplinary therapeutic program. Not the least of the positive effects of rehabilitation is the saving of costs achieved by shortening the patient's time in hospital and reducing the number of working days lost.
Change in self-efficacy partially mediates the effects of the FRESH START intervention on cancer survivors' dietary outcomes.	This study examined change in self-efficacy as a mediator of the effects of a mailed print intervention on the dietary and exercise practices of newly diagnosed breast and prostate cancer survivors.
Integrative review of spirituality in African American breast cancer survivors.	This paper reports findings of an integrative review of the literature on spirituality in AA breast cancer survivors, isolates key spiritual themes, and recommends future research. Inclusion criteria are 1994 to 2004 research studies that included AA breast cancer survivors 18 years old and older. Content analysis was used to isolate spiritual themes and spiritual domains/dimensions. Seven studies resulted that used qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods. Themes identified were spirituality provided the strength to cope; the need to care for others and receive care; beliefs that God is the healer and in control; God assists in decision-making; and closeness to God. Spiritual domains were beliefs, functions, and social support. Future research should explore the domains/dimensions and meanings of spirituality experienced by diverse groups ofAA breast cancer survivors. Culturally appropriate, evidence-based nursing care should include spiritually based interventions that acknowledge the significance of God.
Prevalence and correlates of sleep paralysis in adults reporting childhood sexual abuse.	Sleep paralysis (SP) occurs when rapid eye movement (REM) activity and concomitant paralysis of the skeletal muscles persist as an individual awakens and becomes conscious of his/her surroundings. SP is often accompanied by frightening hallucinations that some researchers suggest may be confounded with memories of childhood sexual abuse (CSA; [McNally, R. J., & Clancy, S. A. (2005). Sleep paralysis in adults reporting repressed, recovered, or continuous memories of childhood sexual abuse. Journal of Anxiety Disorders, 19, 595-602]). The purpose of this study was to evaluate relationships between CSA and SP. Based on self-report, participants (n=263) were categorized into three CSA groups: confirmed, unconfirmed, or no history of CSA. Relative to participants reporting no CSA history, those reporting CSA reported more frequent and more distressing episodes of SP. Post hoc analyses revealed that participants with clinically significant post-traumatic symptoms (irrespective of CSA history) also reported more frequent and more distressing episodes of SP. Significant correlations were found among SP indices and measures of post-traumatic symptoms, depression, dissociation, and absorption. Implications and future research directions are discussed.
The adaptive value of tool-aided defense against wild animal attacks.	Throughout history humans have faced the persistent threat of attacks by wild animals, and how humans respond to this problem can make the difference between survival and death. In theory, the use of tools to fend off animal attacks would be more effective than resisting bare-handed, yet evidence for the advantage of tool-aided defense is scarce and equivocal. Two studies of news accounts of wild animal attacks against humans were conducted to test the hypothesis that tool-aided defense is indeed associated with reductions in injuries and deaths. Results of both Study 1 (N=172) and Study 2 (N=370) supported the hypothesis. The observed survival advantage of tool-aided defense for modern humans suggests that this tactic also would have worked for human ancestors who lived more closely to dangerous wild animals.
Acute disaster exposure and mental health complaints of Norwegian tsunami survivors six months post disaster.	The objective was to investigate the relationship between possible disaster stressors and subsequent health problems among tourists experiencing the 2004 South-East Asia tsunami. A cross-sectional study was performed as a postal survey concerning the experiences of the disaster exposure in retrospect and the presence of psychological symptoms (GHQ-28) in Norwegian tsunami victims 6 months post disaster. The strongest predictors of health complaints were danger of death, witness impressions, and bereavements. Aggravated outcomes were also seen in those who helped others in the acute phase or had sole responsibility for children when the tsunami struck. Having a family member or close friend who was injured was reversely associated with health problems. Women reported more psychological distress than men, but the difference disappeared with increasing degree of danger exposure. Dose-response relationships to psychological distress were found for single exposure factors as well as for the cumulative effects of being exposed to several exposure variables.
Internet support groups for suicide survivors: a new mode for gaining bereavement assistance.	Taken among parents who sustained the loss of a child to suicide this study explores the participation of parents in Internet support groups, comparing their demographic and loss-related characteristics (N = 104) to other parent survivors participating in face-to-face support groups (N = 297). Contrary to expectations that Internet affiliates would be concentrated in under-served rural areas, we found similar levels of urban, suburban, small city and rural residents in both Internet and face-to-face subsamples. Bivariate and multivariate analyses suggested several important factors contributing to interest in Internet grief support including: 24/7 availability and opportunities to invest more time into this type of support group experience. Compared to their face-to-face group counterparts, Internet affiliates experienced greater suicide stigmatization from their families and other associates. Unable to find ready comfort and support from their personal communities, Internet users-and especially highly depressed survivors-sought and obtained valuable help from the Internet support resource.
Frequency and perceived effectiveness of strategies to survive abuse employed by battered Mexican-origin women.	This study documented the frequency and perceived effectiveness of battered Mexican-origin women's usage of formal and informal help and personal strategies to survive abuse. Semistructured interviews were conducted with 75 battered Mexican-origin women. Consistent with survivor theory, results indicated that participants sought help multiple times from several formal and informal help sources; some (i.e., shelter, family) were perceived more effective than others (i.e., lawyer, in-laws). Participants engaged in various personal strategies to survive abuse; some (i.e., using faith/religion) were rated more effective than others (i.e., placating the batterer). Responses to open-ended questions suggest why specific help sources and strategies were/were not effective and provide socioculturally specific suggestions for improving services. This study illuminates battered Mexican-origin women's strengths and barriers that impede their survival efforts. Contributions include focusing on a subset of battered Latinas and documenting the frequency and perceived effectiveness of a wide array of help sources and strategies.
Psychological wellbeing of survivors of the tsunami: empowerment and quality of life.	To compare the empowerment and the quality of life of individuals before and after receiving the psychological services and support interventions.
Frequent search for sense by long-term breast cancer survivors associated with reduced HRQOL.	This study examined breast cancer survivors' reports of continuing efforts to make sense of their breast cancer experience and associations of such efforts with post-traumatic stress symptomology (PTSS) and long-term health related quality of life (HRQOL). A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 636 women in 2002-2003 two, five and ten years after their diagnosis of breast cancer. Only a minority of women with breast cancer reported frequently searching for sense in their cancer experience, or wondering "why did this happen to me?" two or more years after diagnosis. Controlling for key demographic and disease variables, greater involvement in search two, five and ten years post-diagnosis was associated with higher levels of PTSS (R2 = 0.26; p < 0.001) and with reduced HRQOL as measured using the SF-36 scale (p < 0.01 for all scales). It appears that continued efforts to search for sense in the cancer experience two or more years after cancer diagnosis are associated with PTSS and lower levels of HRQOL in long-term survivors of breast cancer.
Diurnal cortisol patterns and stress reactivity in child Holocaust survivors reaching old age.	Late-life implications of early traumatic stress for the adreno-cortical system were examined in a sample of 133 child survivors of the Holocaust, who were subjected to Nazi persecution during infancy.
Psychosocial support of the pediatric cancer patient: lessons learned over the past 50 years.	Advances in pediatric cancer treatment over the past 50 years have dramatically improved survival rates. Once considered almost uniformly fatal, pediatric cancer's overall survival rates now approach 85%. Formerly, little psychosocial support existed for the child with cancer other than that provided by nurses and family. The prospect for long-term survival was so remote that plans for the future (eg, school, social relationships, late effects of treatment, and emotional adjustment) were abandoned. As the survival rate for children with cancer improved, so did the need for and quality of psychosocial care, largely because of hope for a cure. Today children with cancer benefit from comprehensive behavioral pediatric psychosocial support programs in psychiatry, psychology, neuropsychology, child life, education (school), creative arts, chaplaincy, social work, and career and vocational counseling. Pediatric psycho-oncology research has provided insights into clinical care and the psychosocial adaptation of children and families to cancer treatment and survivorship.
Message retrieval for survivors of traumatic brain injury.	Survivors of traumatic brain injury often lose their ability to use natural speech to communicate and then rely on augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) devices. Survivors may also have concomitant cognitive communication disorders that negatively impact memory and organization skills. AAC devices need to incorporate a word retrieval organization strategy that is fast and effective. The current study compared the conditions of topic, place, and alphabet for message recognition. The participants were asked a delayed recall question to elicit a communicative response. Results showed that alphabet is significantly more accurate than place and significantly faster than place and topic. However, participants chose to retrieve words using all three strategies.
Addressing sexual violence in humanitarian emergencies.	Sexual violence is a by-product of conflict commonly seen, but poorly addressed, in humanitarian emergencies. Reports reveal that extraordinary numbers of women and girls suffer physical, psychological, and social consequences of sexual violence during conflict, when fleeing conflict, and during displacement. All sectors of the humanitarian community have a role to play in the prevention of and response to sexual violence. Improvements are needed: in the short-term to meet the needs of survivors of sexual violence; in collecting data related to sexual violence in humanitarian emergencies; and, perhaps most importantly, to address the widespread tolerance for high rates of sexual violence in humanitarian settings.
What do predict anxiety and depression in breast cancer patients? A follow-up study.	Psychological adjustment following cancer occurrence remains a key issue among the survivors. This study aimed to investigate psychological distress in patients with breast cancer following completion of breast cancer treatments and to determine its associated factors.
Predicting methylphenidate response in long-term survivors of childhood cancer: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial.	To investigate the methylphenidate (MPH) response rate among childhood survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and brain tumors (BTs) and to identify predictors of positive MPH response.
Religiousness/spirituality and health behaviors in younger adult cancer survivors: does faith promote a healthier lifestyle?	Positive health behaviors are crucial to cancer survivors' well-being, yet little is known about the personal factors that may facilitate positive health behaviors. The current study focuses on the association of religion/spirituality (R/S) and health behaviors, examining links between health behaviors and religious attendance, daily spiritual experiences, and religious struggle in a sample of 167 younger adult survivors of a variety of cancers. The extent to which positive affect (self-assurance) and negative affect (guilt/shame) mediate these links was also investigated. Results revealed that religious attendance had little impact on health behaviors, but that daily spiritual experiences were related to greater performance of health behaviors,while religious struggle was related to less. Self-assurance partially mediated the effects of daily spiritual experiences, while guilt/shame partially mediated the effects of religious struggle. The findings suggest that aspects of R/S may play important and different roles in the lifestyle choices of cancer survivors.
Factors affecting quality of life in Taiwanese survivors of childhood cancer.	This paper is a report of a pilot study to examine the significance, direction, and magnitude of the relationship of risk factors, protective factors, and resilience to quality of life in survivors of childhood cancer, and to explore what these variables meant to participants in order to better understand the quantitative findings and to assess the validity of the instruments with this population.
To foster healing among adolescents and young adults with cancer: what helps? What hurts?	The physical and emotional well-being of adolescents and young adults with cancer (AYA) rests on the ability of all concerned to promote helpful forms of care and reduce hurtful forms. The purpose of this study was to identify aspects of behavior that may promote or inhibit healthy psychosocial adjustment for this age-defined population.
Managing post-therapy fatigue for cancer survivors using energy conservation training.	This pilot study evaluated the effectiveness of energy conservation training to help post-therapy cancer survivors manage their fatigue. Twelve post-therapy cancer survivors were randomly assigned to an energy conservation training or usual care control (6 in each group). Participants in the intervention group received 1 to 2 hours of individual, face-to-face energy conservation training from an occupational therapist followed by once-a-week telephone monitoring sessions in the subsequent three weeks. Participants in the control group received standard care from their oncologist. Analysis of pre- and post-training data from the Piper Fatigue Scale (PFS) revealed significant reduction only in the sensory subscale of the PFS (Z = 2.21; p = 0.027) for the intervention group; but no significant reduction in the four subscale or total scores of the PFS for the control group. Findings demonstrate partial support for the effectiveness of energy conservation training in helping post-therapy cancer survivors manage their fatigue. Energy conservation training seems to be a viable strategy for managing cancer-related fatigue, though its efficacy is modest. Incorporating specific energy restoration strategies such as relaxation and meditation for future research may help advance the growing body of knowledge in symptom management for post-therapy cancer survivors.
Battles on women's bodies: war, rape and traumatisation in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.	Rape has been used as a weapon in the conflict in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in unprecedented ways. Research into the phenomenon of war-rape is limited, particularly in this context. The aim of this study was to explore perceptions of local leaders in eastern DRC concerning rape and raped women in the war context. Local leaders were chosen for their ability to both reflect and influence their constituencies. Interviews were conducted with 10 local leaders and transcripts subjected to qualitative content analysis. The study suggests that mass raping and the methods of perpetration created a chaos effectively destroying communities and the entire society and that humanitarian aid was often inappropriate. Furthermore, an exclusive focus on raped women missed the extent of traumatisation entire communities suffered. More significantly, the lack of political will, corruption, greed and inappropriate aid creates a tangled web serving to intensify the war. This complexity has implications for humanitarian interventions including public health.
The new adult orphan: issues and considerations for health care professionals.	The death of the last parent has a profound effect on survivors. Health care workers are often the first source of anticipatory guidance for newly orphaned adults as they cope with grief, loss, and awareness that their lives are forever changed. It is estimated that more than 80 million Americans were born between 1946 and 1964. As this Baby Boomer generation, often defined as seeing themselves as culturally special, becomes "orphaned," they may be less aware, less prepared, and less supported than any previous group of Americans regarding this life event. For a number of adults, the loss creates many unexpected results that can destabilize life in profound ways. This article describes the unique new realities of helping adult orphans as they relate to health care providers and discusses the problems associated with prolonged and complicated grief. Implications for geriatric caregivers, mental health providers, health educators, and others are proposed.
The psychological aspects of polio survivors through their life experience.	After several decades of stability, polio survivors often experience new signs and symptoms of their condition, characterized by global and muscular fatigue, decreased muscular strength and pain. The hypothesis of a potential underlying psychological component has been suggested.
Cancer survivorship in children and young adults: a concept analysis.	Survivorship has been described in a variety of ways. Understanding how survivorship is applied in the context of childhood cancer survivors is important to the practice of pediatric nursing because it will offer nurses new possibilities for providing guidance, support, and assistance in enhancing outcomes for childhood cancer survivors and their families. Accordingly, the purpose of this article is to provide a conceptual framework that will assist nurses in their efforts to attain the common goal of successful survivorship in childhood cancer survivors. The method of concept analysis developed by Walker and Avant is used. The result is a definition of survivorship that is relevant and useful for research and clinical practice in pediatric oncology.
Exercise, tea consumption, and depression among breast cancer survivors.	PURPOSE To examine the association of lifestyle factors and supplement use with depression among breast cancer survivors. PATIENTS AND METHODS In a population-based cohort study conducted between April 2002 and December 2006 in Shanghai, China, a total of 1,399 women who were diagnosed with stage 0 to III breast cancer completed 6-month and 18-month postdiagnosis, in-person interviews. Information on sociodemographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors were collected through the interviews and through review of medical charts at approximately 6 months postdiagnosis. A metabolic equivalent (MET) score was calculated from reported exercise activities. Quality of life (QOL) was evaluated by the Medical Outcomes Short Form-36 Health Survey at 6 months postdiagnosis. Depressive symptoms were measured by using a 20-item Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale at approximately 18 months postdiagnosis. Results Overall, 26% of women reported depressive symptoms and 13% met the criteria of clinical depression at 18 months postdiagnosis. Women with a higher exercise level (ie, >/= 8.3 MET h/wk) were less likely to have depression than nonexercisers; the multivariate adjusted odds ratios (ORs) were 0.71 (95% CI, 0.47 to 1.07) for mild depression and 0.56 (95% CI, 0.35 to 0.88) for clinical depression in analyses controlled for sociodemographic and clinical factors and baseline QOL. Women who increased their exercise level had lower risk for depression. Regular tea consumption (ie, > 100 g dried tea leaves/mo) was inversely associated with overall depression (OR, 0.39; 95% CI, 0.19 to 0.84). No associations were found for dietary intake or supplement use with depression. CONCLUSION Regular exercise participation and tea consumption may play an important role in the prevention of depression among breast cancer survivors.
Stroke survivors who score below threshold on standard depression measures may still have negative cognitions of concern.	There has been an increase in screening for depression in the physically ill. We explored whether important negative cognitions may be missed by conventional approaches to screening for depression in 2 independently conducted stroke studies with similar methods.
Women with lung cancer: quality of life after thoracotomy: a 6-month prospective study.	Data about health-related quality of life (QOL) after surgical treatment for lung cancer are limited. Such information can be valuable in developing appropriate nursing interventions for follow-up care for survivors.
Quality of life in cancer survivorship: 20 years later.	To discuss the unique quality-of-life (QOL) issues for cancer survivors and provide guidance for the selection of measures to assess them.
The role of nursing in the rehabilitation of stroke survivors: an extended theoretical account.	This article provides a critique and theoretical extension of a work that sought to describe the contribution of nurses to stroke rehabilitation. At the time, the role of nursing was considered important but therapeutically nonspecific. Stroke nursing research has increased significantly and so has research focusing on the patient experiences of the adjustment and rehabilitation processes following a stroke. These developments provide significant new insights that may refine and extend the original understanding of the role of nursing in stroke rehabilitation. This article proposes an extended theoretical framework of the role of nursing in stroke recovery and rehabilitation.
Consumer participation: ensuring suicide postvention research counts for end users.	Primary health-care research is about working with those who have a vested interest in the outcomes of that research, including consumers, service providers and service organizations. This article describes how consumers were included in the research processes of a South Australian study into suicide postvention services, and illustrates important principles to consider when including consumers in research. A concurrent mixed-method approach facilitated the collection of mixed data through the application of questionnaires. The study was conducted in an Australian metropolitan area. Because of media releases, a large number of people rang to enquire and volunteer their participation. From over 200 expressions of interest, 161 individuals participated. The participation of consumers in the research process ensured the findings were relevant for end users. A number of recommendations for the care and support of those bereaved through suicide were developed as a result.
Effectiveness of behavioral techniques and physical exercise on psychosocial functioning and health-related quality of life in breast cancer patients and survivors--a meta-analysis.	To evaluate the effect of behavioral techniques and physical exercise on psychosocial functioning and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) outcomes in breast cancer patients and survivors.
Quality of life in patients with spinal cord injury.	The primary objective of this study was to assess the quality of life (QoL) in spinal cord injury (SCI) survivors. Secondary objectives were to determine the effects of various sociodemographic and clinical characteristics on QoL. This cross-sectional study included 54 patients with SCI. The Turkish version of the Short-Form-36 Health Survey was used to assess health-related QoL. Functional status was measured with Functional Independence Measure. Higher values were obtained in younger individuals for bodily pain, in paraplegic patients for physical functioning, role-physical, social functioning, and role-emotional. Moreover, it was observed that functional status correlated well with physical functioning, role-physical, social functioning, and role-emotional. Among the complications investigated, bladder incontinence is related to low health-related QoL in most domains. SCI may interfere with some health domains of QoL according to the patient's age, neurologic levels, functional status and presence of complications, mainly bladder incontinence.
Perceptions and experiences of post-irradiation swallowing difficulties in nasopharyngeal cancer survivors.	This study aimed to explore the perceptions and experiences of swallowing difficulties in irradiated survivors of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Qualitative semi-structured interviews were conducted with 60 post-irradiation NPC patients after they had answered a set of self-report questions. The interviews were transcribed verbatim for analysis. Results of the self-report data showed that in response to a global question 'Do you have any swallowing difficulties?' eight-five per cent of the respondents reported a certain degree of difficulty. The qualitative interview findings, however, suggested that this figure might have been underestimated. Patient interpretations of swallowing difficulties had excluded part of the symptoms. Some respondents who claimed to have no difficulty swallowing, in fact, were suffering from oral retention of food bolus, regurgitation of food or liquids through the nose, and/or even choking. The risk of aspiration was generally neglected. Informants' concerns focused more on the threat of cancer recurrence, thus paid less attention to the radiation-induced swallowing complication. Respondents did not possess sufficient knowledge to judge their swallowing abilities at a general level. This study suggests ways to enhance patient-provider communication and health education to improve patient knowledge.
Posttraumatic stress disorder 1 month after 2008 earthquake in China: Wenchuan earthquake survey.	The objective of the study was to understand the rate of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and to explore the effects of sociodemographic characteristics and the disaster losses on the development of PTSD 1 month after the 2008 earthquake in China. A random sample of 430 survivors were investigated for PTSD with a self-report questionnaire including the Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Self-rating Scale and Survivor Information Questionnaire between June 15 and June 20, 2008. Chi-square analysis and multivariate logistic regression analysis, were used to evaluate PTSD morbidity and risk factors of survivors. A total of 257 (62.8%) subjects met the criteria for PTSD 1 month after the earthquake. Married status (odds ratio (OR) =2.22, 95%confidence interval (CI): 1.06-4.65), female gender (OR=2.36, 95%CI: 1.51-3.70), having deaths or injury of family members (OR=1.67, 95%CI: 1.07-2.57), low education level (OR=1.39, 95%CI: 1.07-1.80), and losses of possessions (OR=1.82, 95%CI: 1.05-3.16) all had a significant effect on survivors' PTSD. PTSD was as prevalent in disaster victims in China as in those elsewhere. In the early stage of disasters, those victims who were female, not well educated, and suffered considerable losses in their possessions or family members should be closely attended to during the early psychological intervention.
Intimate partner violence and cardiovascular risk: is there a link?	This paper is a report of a study of the relationship between stress associated with intimate partner violence and smoking and cardiovascular risk.
Outcome of children cured of acute lymphoblastic leukemia]	More than 80% of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia can now be cured. Relapses are rare after five years of remission. The most frequent sites of relapse are bone marrow, the central nervous system, and the testicles. Long-term follow-up is needed to detect late adverse effects of treatment. This includes regular cardiac examination, owing to the cumulative-dose-dependent cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines. Endocrine disorders (early puberty, growth hormone deficiency, gonad and thyroid dysfunction) are mainly due to irradiation of the brain or testicles, which is now less widely used. Growth must be monitored closely to detect early obesity. Bone mineral density can also be altered. Cognitive function, school performance and socialization are usually normal in non irradiated patients. Secondary neoplasms are rare, but some are related to previous treatments. Currently, post-cure quality of life is a major concern when choosing the treatment strategy.
Range and specificity of war-related trauma to posttraumatic stress; depression and general health perception: displaced former World War II children in late life.	Dose-response relation of war experiences and posttraumatic stress, depression and poor health functioning in late life is well documented in war-affected populations. The influence of differing trauma types experienced by war-affected population in the study of dose-response relation of war trauma and psychological maladaptation in late life has not been investigated. We examined a subgroup of displaced elders and investigated whether specific trauma types were associated with differential health outcomes.
The impact of illness on the emotional life of women united in "the amazons" clubs after breast cancer surgery]	Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant tumor diagnosed among women in Poland and in the world. Among the consequences of the disease are disorders in the woman's physical, mental, and social sphere of functioning.
Simple strategies for vaginal health promotion in cancer survivors.	With the population of cancer survivors nearing 12 million, an ever-increasing number of women will face vaginal health issues related to their disease and/or treatment. Abrupt menopause triggered by cancer treatment, for example, can cause intense and prolonged estrogen deprivation symptoms, including vaginal dryness and discomfort. Simple strategies to promote vaginal health are available.
Psychometric properties of the Fatigue Severity Scale in polio survivors.	The objective of this study was to evaluate by means of classical test theory and Rasch analysis the scaling characteristics and psychometric properties of the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) in polio survivors. A questionnaire,consisting of five general questions (sex, age, age at time of acute polio, sequelae of polio, and new symptoms), the FSS, and three questions from the Visual Analog Scale questions on fatigue was sent to all 196 polio survivors at the Institute for Rehabilitation in Ljubljana. Responses were assessed in terms of Cronbach's a, item-to-total correlation, factor analysis, and Rasch analysis. Of the128 (65.3%) valid questionnaires returned, those presenting no missing values were used for subsequent analyses (n = 117). The FSS showed good internal consistency: Cronbach's a was greater than 0.95,item-to-total correlation ranged from 0.68 to 0.88. A reduction from seven to three rating categories was necessary to comply with criteria for correct category function. Item difficulty estimates spanned from  0.91to + 1.09 logits. No item bias was found for sex and age.The internal consistency of FSS was high and its item separation reliability good, indicating a satisfactory replicability of item placement in other samples. In conclusion, Rasch analysis enabled us to confirm the validity of FSS (in its 8-item version, without item 1) as a measure of the severity and impact of physical symptoms of fatigue in polio survivors, so providing a useful starting point for further studies aimed at examining additional psychometric aspects and confirming the appropriateness of the simplification of its rating categories.
Satisfaction with follow-up consultations among younger adults treated for cancer: the role of quality of life and psychological variables.	Given increased survival rates and treatment-related late effects, follow-up for cancer survivors is increasingly recommended. However, information about adverse events (e.g. possibility of late effects) may be distressing for the cancer survivor and lead to poor clinic attendance. Survivor satisfaction with appointments and the information provided are important. The Monitoring Process Model provides a theoretical framework to understand how survivors cope with threatening information, and consequences for follow-up care. Our aims were to describe satisfaction with routine follow-up and association between monitoring/blunting and satisfaction with care.
Exercise interventions for cancer survivors: a meta-analysis of quality of life outcomes.	Exercise improves quality of life (QOL) in cancer survivors, although characteristics of efficacious exercise interventions for this population have not been identified.
Development and validation of the health competence beliefs inventory in young adults with and without a history of childhood cancer.	Adolescent and young adult survivors of childhood cancer are a vulnerable population. Health beliefs may be related to necessary follow-up care.
Gender differences in PTSD symptoms: an exploration of peritraumatic mechanisms.	Females are at higher risk than males for developing posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms (PTSS) following exposure to trauma, which may stem from gender differences in initial physiological and psychological responses to trauma. The present study aimed to examine a number of peri- and initial posttraumatic reactions to motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) to determine the extent to which they contributed to gender differences in PTSS. 356 adult MVA survivors (211 males and 145 females) reported on peritraumatic dissociation, perception of life threat and initial PTSS. In addition, heart rate and urinary cortisol levels were collected in-hospital. 6 weeks and 6 months later, PTSS were assessed via clinical interviews. Results suggested that initial PTSS and peritraumatic dissociation were marginally significant mediators at 6-week follow-up and significant mediators at 6-month follow-up, providing partial support for the hypothesis that initial responses to trauma may account for observed gender differences in PTSS development.
Cognitive limitations associated with tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors in employed breast cancer survivors.	Previous research has suggested that endocrine therapy is associated with cognitive limitations in breast cancer survivors (BCS); this study examined the relationship in employed BCS, an average of three years post-primary treatment.
Sexual function and experience among long-term survivors of childhood cancer.	The objective was to compare sexual function, sexual experience and quality of partner relationship by gender in a cohort of long-term survivors of childhood cancer with a sample from the general population.
Extant health behaviors and uptake of standardized vs tailored health messages among cancer survivors enrolled in the FRESH START trial: a comparison of fighting-spirits vs fatalists.	Cancer coping styles have been associated with several cancer-related outcomes. We examined whether baseline lifestyle behaviors differed between cancer survivors with fatalistic vs fighting-spirit coping styles, and whether there was differential response to two diet-exercise mailed-print interventions, one standardized and another individually tailored.
Requiring both avoidance and emotional numbing in DSM-V PTSD: will it help?	The proposed DSM-V criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) specifically require both active avoidance and emotional numbing symptoms for a diagnosis. In DSM-IV, since both are included in the same cluster, active avoidance is not essential. Numbing symptoms overlap with depression, which may result in spurious comorbidity or overdiagnosis of PTSD. This paper investigated the impact of requiring both active avoidance and emotional numbing on the rates of PTSD diagnosis and comorbidity with depression.
A longitudinal qualitative study of the experience of working following treatment for gynaecological cancer.	There are an increasing number of gynaecological cancer survivors for whom returning to work is a realistic outcome. There is little research to date specifically examining the return to work experience of survivors of gynaecological cancers. The aim of this study was to explore gynaecological cancer survivors' experience of work over a 1-year period post-treatment.
The prognostic role of cancer-specific beliefs among prostate cancer survivors.	The objective of this study is to evaluate the association between cancer-specific beliefs and survival among men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer.
Distress trajectories at the first year diagnosis of breast cancer in relation to 6 years survivorship.	To explore how initial trajectories of distress experienced during the first year following diagnosis with early-stage breast cancer (ESBC) relate to subsequent long-term(6 years) psychosocial outcomes.
Exploring and comparing the experience and coping behaviour of men and women with colorectal cancer after chemotherapy treatment: a qualitative longitudinal study.	Men have higher incidence and mortality rates for nearly all cancers. They are less likely than women to utilise cancer information services and other social support services. The aim of this study was to explore and compare the experience and coping behaviour of men and women after treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC).
Decrease in depression symptoms is associated with longer survival in patients with metastatic breast cancer: a secondary analysis.	Numerous studies have examined the comorbidity of depression with cancer, and some have indicated that depression may be associated with cancer progression or survival. However, few studies have assessed whether changes in depression symptoms are associated with survival.
Stroke survivor depressive symptoms are associated with family caregiver depression during the first 2 years poststroke.	Behavioral and psychological symptoms associated with stroke are gaining increasing attention in a field in which recovery of physical function has dominated. A small body of research has begun to suggest that stroke survivors' (SSs') behavioral and psychological symptoms contribute to family caregivers' experiences of emotional distress. The objective of this research was to determine the unique contribution of SS behavioral and psychological symptoms on caregiver emotional distress during the first 2 years poststroke. Method- A longitudinal cohort study was conducted of individuals who have survived their first stroke and their caregivers. Participants completed standardized measures by telephone interviews at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months poststroke. A subsample completed additional assessments 18 and 24 months poststroke. These longitudinal data were analyzed using mixed effects modeling.
Quality of life after breast cancer diagnosis and survival.	To examine the association of quality of life (QOL) after diagnosis of breast cancer with mortality and recurrence.
Internet-based self-assessment after the Tsunami: lessons learned.	In the aftermath of the Tsunami disaster in 2004, an online psychological self-assessment (ONSET) was developed and made available by the University of Zurich in order to provide an online screening instrument for Tsunami victims to test if they were traumatized and in need of mental health care. The objective of the study was to report the lessons learnt that were made using an Internet-based, self-screening instrument after a large-scale disaster and to discuss its outreach and usefulness.
How I remember my parents' divorce: a phenomenological investigation.	In order to examine the experience of parental divorce for adult women, a phenomenological method was used. Ten women were interviewed and the interviews were transcribed verbatim and thematized. The themes that came from the texts of the interviews transcripts and the researchers' reflections on the phenomenological research group analysis were: Before the Divorce, During the Divorce, and After the Divorce. These themes were centered on a contextual ground of Time Frame of the Divorce. The results of this study can provide individuals with a context for understanding their own experiences of parental divorce. These results could also be helpful for mental health clinicians in anticipating the themes that clients will discuss relative to the stages of their parents' divorce.
Symptom management of affective and cognitive disturbance with a group of cancer survivors.	Cancer survivors 65 years of age and older experience treatment-induced memory impairments. However, clinicians do not intervene for these cognitive problems. This article describes the findings from a pilot study of a memory versus health training intervention and its adaptability for cancer survivors for symptom management.
Clinical profile of the adolescent/adult Fontan survivor.	The study aims to describe the clinical profile of the adult Fontan survivor and identify the worries, symptoms, and the impact of cardiac surveillance most commonly experienced.
Resilience among Japanese atomic bomb survivors.	The purpose of the study was to explore the experience of atomic bomb survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Health-related quality of life in survivors with breast cancer 1 year after diagnosis compared with the general population: a prospective cohort study.	To compare the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of disease-free breast cancer survivors at the time of diagnosis and 1 year later with that of the general population (GP) and to examine the predictors of HRQOL change.
Untreated psychotic illness in the survivors of violent suicide attempts.	Recent studies suggest that violence is more common in the first episode of psychosis than after treatment.
Associations among musculoskeletal impairments, depression, body image and fatigue in breast cancer survivors within the first year after treatment.	The aim of the current study was to investigate the relationship between pressure pain thresholds, shoulder movement, mood state, pain perception, muscle endurance, quality of life and fatigue in breast cancer survivors (BCS). Fifty-nine BCS reporting fatigue were examined at 6 months post-treatment. Women completed the Piper Fatigue Scale, the Breast Cancer-Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire, the Profile of Mood State, and neck-shoulder visual analogue scale. Additionally, shoulder flexion range of motion, the McQuade test (trunk flexor endurance) and pressure pain thresholds over the C5-C6 joint, the deltoid muscle, the second metacarpal and tibialis anterior muscle were assessed. Fatigue was greater in those patients with higher depression (r= 0.45, P < 0.05), higher shoulder pain (r= 0.39, P < 0.05), higher neck pain (r= 0.46, P < 0.01), lower body image (r=-0.34, P < 0.05) and reduced shoulder movement (r=-0.32, P < 0.05). Regression analyses demonstrated that depression, cervical pain intensity, body image and shoulder mobility were associated with fatigue (r= 0.55, P < 0.001). A psychological state characterised with higher depression and reduced body image and a physical impairment with higher cervical pain intensity and reduced shoulder mobility confirm multidimensional character of fatigue in BCS.
Families with burn injury: application in the clinically relevant continuum model.	This article incorporates the findings from a predominantly qualitative, mixed-method study examining sibling survivors' experiences of a major childhood burn injury into the clinically relevant continuum model as a means of promoting culturally competent and family-centered care.
Genetic markers for PTSD risk and resilience among survivors of the World Trade Center attacks.	We have previously reported the differential expression of 17 probe sets in survivors of the 9/11 attacks with current posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) compared to similarly exposed survivors with no lifetime PTSD. The current study presents an expanded analysis of these subjects, including genotype at FKBP5, a modulator of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) sensitivity. It includes data from additional subjects who developed PTSD following 9/11 but then recovered, distinguishing expression profiles associated with risk for developing PTSD, resilience, and symptom recovery. 40 Caucasians (20 with and 20 without PTSD, matched for exposure, age, and gender) were selected from a population-representative sample of persons exposed to the 9/11 attacks from which longitudinal data had been collected in four previous waves. Whole blood gene expression and cortisol levels were obtained and genome-wide gene expression was analyzed. 25 probe sets were differentially expressed in PTSD. Identified genes were generally involved in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, signal transduction, or in brain and immune cell function. STAT5B, a direct inhibitor of GR, and nuclear factor I/A, both showed reduced expression in PTSD. Comparison of lifetime versus current PTSD identified overlapping genes with altered expression suggesting enduring markers, while some markers present only in current PTSD may reflect state measures. As a follow-up, direct comparisons of expression in current PTSD, lifetime-only PTSD, and control groups identified FKBP5 and MHC Class II as state markers, and also identified several trait markers. An analysis of indirect effects revealed that homozygosity for any of 4 PTSD risk-related polymorphisms at FKBP5 predicted FKBP5 expression, which mediated indirect effects of genotype on plasma cortisol and PTSD severity.
Maternal exposure to the holocaust and health complaints in offspring.	Although the link between chronic stress and the development of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases of adulthood has been known for some time, there is growing recognition that early environmental influences may result in developmental programming via epigenetic mechanisms, thereby affecting the developmental trajectory of disease progression. Previous studies support the idea that offspring of Holocaust survivors may have been subjected to early developmental programming. We evaluated the relationship between parental exposure to the Holocaust and self-reported health ratings and disorders made by their adult offspring (i.e., second generation Holocaust survivors). A total of 137 subjects were evaluated. Regression analyses demonstrated that maternal but not paternal exposure to the Holocaust was related to poorer subjective impressions of emotional and physical health. This relationship was diminished when the offspring's own level of trait anxiety was considered. Offspring with maternal, but not paternal, Holocaust exposure also reported greater use of psychotropic and other medications, including medications for the treatment of hypertension and lipid disorders. The mechanism linking these health outcomes and maternal exposure deserves further investigation, including the possibility that fetal or early developmental programming is involved.
Cancer-related chronic pain: examining quality of life in diverse cancer survivors.	Disparities in cancer survival and pain rates negatively impact quality of life (QOL). This study examines cancer-related chronic pain (CP) and its impact on QOL in diverse cancer survivors.
Illness perceptions among carer-survivor dyads are related to psychological distress among Oesophageal cancer survivors.	To examine the extent to which the illness perceptions of Oesophageal cancer survivors and the illness perceptions of their carers explain the survivors' levels of psychological distress (in terms of anxiety and depression symptoms) relative to demographic and biomedical variables and patients' coping strategies.
Sexual functioning in obese adults enrolling in a weight loss study.	The authors assessed sexual functioning among treatment-seeking obese men (n = 91) and women (n = 134) using the comprehensive validated Sexual Functioning Questionnaire. Scores were lower for women than for men, indicating reduced sexual functioning. Men's scores fell between those of a group of cancer survivors and a general population group, whereas women generally had lower scores than both of these groups. Increasing body mass index was associated with decreasing sexual functioning only for arousal and behavior. Sexual functioning was also reduced on most subscales for individuals who reported sexual inactivity in the past month.
Physical activity and women with breast cancer: insights from expert patients.	Physical activity participation amongst cancer survivors is low. This potent modifiable host factor has been disregarded in the cancer treatment plan for decades, despite its role in cancer control. The purpose of this study was to explore perception of physical activity among women with breast cancer.
Determinants of altered life perspectives among older-adult long-term cancer survivors.	In the recent literature on cancer survivorship, positive changes are emphasized in the aftermath of trauma. However, there is insufficient research on older-adult survivors and more complex transformations.
Providing developmentally appropriate psychosocial care to adolescent and young adult cancer survivors.	To deliver developmentally appropriate psychosocial care, the key developmental tasks facing adolescents and young adults (AYA) need to be taken into consideration. These include establishing autonomy from parents; a personal set of values and identity; strong peer relationships, including intimate and sexual relationships; and obtaining adequate preparation to join the workforce. To minimize the amount of disruption caused by the cancer experience and to maximize the health-related quality of life of AYA patients, young individuals with cancer need opportunities to participate as much as possible in typical AYA activities and to master the developmental tasks of this life stage. Promoting a sense of normalcy is essential. To achieve this, the health care environment must be flexible and recognize the important role of peers. Informational and practical supports also are necessary for AYA to stay on track developmentally in the context of coping with cancer. Critical elements of effective AYA psychosocial services should include access to AYA-specific information and support resources, fertility and sexuality counseling, programs to maximize academic and vocational functioning, and financial support.
Is psychological distress in people living with cancer related to the fact of diagnosis, current treatment or level of disability? Findings from a large Australian study.	To investigate whether the observed elevated levels of psychological distress in cancer survivors relate specifically to aspects of cancer diagnosis, to treatment or to disability.
A randomised controlled trial to evaluate the effects of a self-help workbook intervention on distress, coping and quality of life after breast cancer diagnosis.	To evaluate the efficacy of an interactive self-help workbook in reducing distress, and improving quality of life (QOL) and coping for women recently diagnosed with breast cancer.
A nurse-assisted screening and referral program for depression among survivors of colorectal cancer: feasibility study.	To test the feasibility and acceptability of a telephone-based program to screen survivors of colorectal cancer (CRC) for distress, and to refer distressed patients to their treating health service.
"I'm still who I was" creating meaning through engagement in art: The experiences of two breast cancer survivors.	The aim of this feasibility study was two-fold: i) develop lifelike torsos of two breast cancer survivors using innovative sculpting material and; ii) shed light on the meaning women give to the experience of breast cancer after viewing their sculpted torsos.
I-CAN SLEEP: rationale and design of a non-inferiority RCT of Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for the treatment of Insomnia in CANcer survivors.	Individuals with cancer are disproportionately affected by sleep disturbances, relative to the general population. These problems can be a consequence of the psychological, behavioral and physical effects of a cancer diagnosis and treatment. Sleep disturbances often persist for years and, when combined with already high levels of cancer-related distress, may place cancer survivors at a higher risk of future psychopathology, health problems and poorer quality of life. It is important to develop and evaluate treatments that comprehensively address the common symptom profiles experienced by cancer survivors.
Quality insights of university students on dying, death, and death education--a preliminary study in Hong Kong.	Death is a subject seldom studied in school and often misunderstood and feared by many people. Children often learn about death from their family and mass media. From the literature review on dying, death, and death education, it may be concluded that people are generally ignorant about the issues of death and dying. There is a need to investigate what young people, such as university students, know about death and dying, and their attitudes toward them. Eight university students were recruited for this study. Most participants have had death experiences. They seldom talked about death and loss. Some of these experiences were quite pleasant but some of them were not. Most participants addressed the need to have "life and death" education in schools at their young age. Such a need is further supported by the incidents of two participants who attempted suicide unsuccessfully when they encountered a life problem which they could not solve.
Improving the recognition and treatment of cancer-related posttraumatic stress disorder.	Life-threatening illness has been identified as a stressor that can precipitate posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Major advances in cancer treatment have led to increased survival periods. At the same time, there is a growing awareness of the psychological impact of cancer diagnosis and treatment on the patient. Cancer survivors report that cancer can elicit symptoms of traumatic stress. When cancer-related PTSD is untreated, medical and psychiatric morbidity increase. Despite the prevalence, impact, and morbidity of cancer-related PTSD, access to mental health care in cancer patients remains limited. It is important to increase mental health providers' awareness of cancer-related PTSD, given rising cancer rates and the potential for enhancing quality of life. This article presents an overview of the recognition, diagnosis, management, and follow-up of cancer-related PTSD for the mental health clinician.
The contribution of childhood family violence on later intimate partner violence among robbery victims.	This study examined the relative contributions of the three forms of childhood family violence exposure on physical intimate partner violence (IPV) victimization among recent robbery victims and tested a gender-matching modeling prediction for IPV risk. Data from a sample of 103 male and 93 female victims of a robbery were analyzed to investigate the effects of exposure to childhood physical abuse (CPA), childhood sexual abuse (CSA), and witnessing parental violence on the likelihood of IPV in adulthood. As expected, witnessing parental violence was associated with a 2.4-fold increase in IPV for both men and women. Neither CPA nor CSA was significantly associated with IPV after accounting for the effect of witnessing parental violence. There was support for the gender-matching hypothesis with men more likely to report IPV if they had witnessed mother-to-father violence and women more likely to report IPV if they had witnessed father-to-mother violence. Witnessing parental violence is strongly associated with risk for IPV victimization, particularly when the victim is the same-gender parent. Future directions and clinical implications are discussed.
Survivorship navigation outcome measures: a report from the ACS patient navigation working group on survivorship navigation.	Survivorship navigation is a relatively new concept in the field of patient navigation but an important one. This article highlights the essential functions of the survivorship navigator and defines core outcomes and measures for navigation in the survivorship period. Barriers to access to care experienced by patients during active cancer treatment can continue into the post-treatment period, affecting quality follow-up care for survivors. These barriers to care can be particularly acute for non-English speakers, immigrants, the uninsured, the underinsured, and other vulnerable populations. The survivorship navigator can help reduce barriers and facilitate access to survivorship care and services through communication and information exchange for patients. Survivorship navigation may improve appropriate health care utilization through education and care coordination, potentially improving health outcomes and quality of life of survivors while reducing cost to the health care system. Survivorship navigators can also educate survivors on how to improve their overall wellness, thereby directly impacting the health of a growing population of cancer survivors.
Skin care behaviors among melanoma survivors.	Clinical recommendations for survivors of melanoma generally include skin care behaviors, including regular physician and skin self-examination to identify any recurrences or second primary disease early, as well as sun protection. We measured skin care behaviors in a population-based sample of melanoma survivors.
Clinical update: psychosocial responses in breast cancer survivors.	To present an update of the evidence on psychosocial responses and factors that contribute to psychosocial functioning and quality of life (QOL) in breast cancer survivors.
Risk factors of posttraumatic stress disorder among survivors after the 512 Wenchuan earthquake in China.	This study investigated the psychological reactions of survivors of the 512 Wenchuan earthquake in China and the risk factors associated with those reactions. The Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), Type D Scale-14 (DS14), a self-developed trauma experience questionniare, and a demographic questionnaire were administered to 956 earthquake survivors (389 males and 567 females) in Mianzhu, one of the cities most affected by the earthquake. The results showed that postraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms affected 84.8% of survivors one to two months after the earthquake. Significant risk factors associated with PTSD symptoms included: (1) being female; (2) older age; (3) higher exposure to traumatic events during the earthquake; and (4) negative affect in Type-D personality.
Physiological reactivity in children of Oklahoma City bombing survivors 7 years postdisaster: a pilot study.	Relatively few studies of children exposed to trauma have used objective indicators such as heart rate and blood pressure measurements to assess physiological reactivity.
Have a little faith: measuring the impact of illness on positive and negative aspects of faith.	The importance of faith and its associations with health are well documented. As part of the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System, items tapping positive and negative impact of illness (PII and NII) were developed across four content domains: Coping/Stress Response, Self-Concept, Social Connection/Isolation, and Meaning and Spirituality. Faith items were included within the concept of meaning and spirituality.
Health locus of control beliefs and healthy survival with AIDS.	Health Locus of Control (HLOC) has been related to a number of psychosocial and medical variables in previous research in HIV. However, there is little information about its relationship to disease status, or about the Doctors subscale (DHLOC), in this population.
Prevalence and correlates of major depressive disorder in breast cancer survivors in Shanghai, China.	Our objective is to measure the prevalence and correlates of major depressive disorder (MDD) among Chinese breast cancer patients after surgery, which is essential for analyzing the service needs and allocating mental health resources.
Breast cancer survivors' views of factors that influence the return-to-work process--a qualitative study.	Accumulating evidence suggests that most employed breast cancer survivors are able to return to         work but often experience difficulties in the process. The objective of this study was to identify: (i) factors         experienced as barriers to and facilitators of the return-to-work (RTW) process, (ii) which factors were important         during initial and post RTW, and (iii) possible solutions to RTW problems.
The association between reality-based beliefs and indirectly experienced traumatization.	The purpose of the study was to examine the association between belief types and the magnitude of indirect traumatization. Specific types of beliefs were defined in terms of the cognitive orientation theory, which is a cognitive-motivational approach to the understanding, predicting, and changing of behaviors. Belief types that were analyzed included beliefs about self, general beliefs, beliefs about norms, and goal beliefs as they relate to personal growth. Study participants included 38 rescuers (body handlers), 37 nurses, and 31 rehabilitation workers who treated injured civilians that had been exposed to politically motivated violence. The Cognitive Orientation for Posttraumatic Growth Scale was used to assess beliefs about personal growth. The Revised Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Inventory was administered to evaluate indirect traumatization. The results indicate that three of the four belief types related to personal growth were associated with the level of indirect traumatization. Optimistic and positive beliefs about self and general beliefs were associated with a lower level of indirect traumatization symptomatology, suggesting that these types of beliefs may counteract indirect traumatization. On the other hand, stronger goal beliefs were associated with greater indirect traumatization. The negative association between positive goal beliefs and indirect trauma may be related to the gap the individual perceives between the hoped-for ideals and the trauma-stricken reality. These results indicate the importance of cognitive beliefs and their possible role in determining the response to indirect traumatization.
Posttraumatic growth in long term breast cancer survivors: relation to coping, social support and cognitive processing.	Post-traumatic growth (PTG) has rarely been studied in long term breast cancer survivors using open interviews. In order to address the issue of how women integrate PTG in their overall cancer experience, 28 open interviews concerning changes after cancer were carried out with 5- to 15-year survivors. The analysis of results, performed using Alceste software, revealed one thematic class of PTG which was specific to women with high coping and social support and active cognitive processing. PTG theme appeared most often as a conclusion of interviews rather than in response to the question about changes after cancer.
Colorectal cancer survivors' interest in genetic testing for hereditary cancer: implications for universal tumor screening.	Benefits of universal tumor screening for Lynch syndrome (LS), the most common form of hereditary colorectal cancer (CRC), will be realized only if patients are interested in genetic counseling and testing. This study explores interest in genetic testing for hereditary CRC among CRC patients who have never received genetic counseling or testing.
Exploring the experience of post-stroke fatigue in community dwelling stroke survivors: a prospective qualitative study.	To explore the experience of post-stroke fatigue in community-dwelling stroke survivors with and without post-stroke mood disturbance within one year of stroke.
Symptomatic and palliative care for stroke survivors.	Stroke is the leading cause of disability and one of the most common causes of death worldwide. Outside the setting of acute management, secondary prevention and stroke rehabilitation, little has been written to address the ongoing symptomatic and palliative needs of these patients and their families. In this literature review, we look beyond secondary prevention with the aim of providing evidence-informed management guidelines for the myriad and often under-recognized symptomatic and palliative care needs of stroke survivors. Some of the most common and disabling post-stroke symptoms that are reviewed here include central post-stroke pain, hemiplegic shoulder pain, painful spasticity, fatigue, incontinence, post-stroke seizures, sexual dysfunction, sleep-disordered breathing, depression and emotionalism. We review the role of caregivers and explore ways to support them and, lastly, remind the reader to be perceptive to the patient's spiritual needs. The literature is most robust, including controlled trials, for central post-stroke pain and depression. Synthesis and discussion outside these areas are frequently limited to smaller studies, case reports and expert opinion. While some data exists to guide informed decision-making, there is an urgent need to document best practice and identify appropriate clinical standards for the full spectrum of symptoms experienced by stroke survivors. We present the current and established data to aid health care providers in symptomatic and palliative management of stroke survivors.
Factors associated with long-term functional outcomes and psychological sequelae in women after breast cancer.	The objective of this study was to examine factors impacting long-term functional outcomes and psychological sequelae in survivors of breast cancer (BC). A clinical assessment and structured interview assessed the impact of BC on participants' (n=85) current activity and restriction in participation, using validated questionnaires: Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Perceived Impact Problem Profile (PIPP) and Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS). Participants showed good functional recovery (median motor FIM score=78). Three-quarters (74%) reported pain, 32% reported upper limb weakness, 31% pain limiting shoulder movement and 29% lymphoedema. One third (32%) reported greatest impact on psychological wellbeing. A substantial number of participants reported high levels of depression (22%), anxiety and stress (19% each). Factors associated with poorer current level of functioning and wellbeing included: younger participants, recent diagnoses, aggressive tumour types, receiving chemotherapy, shoulder limitation due to pain, and lymphoedema. BC survivors require long-term management of psychological sequelae impacting activity and participation.
Shared traumatic reality in communal disasters: toward a conceptualization.	The phenomenon variously termed "shared reality," "shared trauma," or "shared traumatic reality" refers to situations in which helper and helpee, psychotherapist and client, are exposed to the same communal disaster. This article has two aims. One, pursued in the first part of the article, is to trace the development of the concept; analyze the conditions under which it was acknowledged, articulated, and labeled; and review the changes in the term over time. The other, pursued in the second part, is to offer a conceptualization of the phenomenon based on analysis of the literature. Here, the article shows that the phenomenon is characterized by two distinct dynamics, one pertaining to professionals providing help in the emergency phase, the other to professionals conducting ongoing psychotherapy; to offer a preliminary definition of the phenomenon which covers the shared features of the two dynamics; and to present the distinct features of each.
Anxiety and depression in breast cancer survivors of different sexual orientations.	We conducted a study comparing anxiety and depression by sexual orientation in long-term breast cancer survivors, testing the hypothesis that sexual minority women (e.g., lesbian and bisexual women) have greater levels of anxiety and depression.
Temporal analysis of heart rate variability as a predictor of post traumatic stress disorder in road traffic accidents survivors.	Road Traffic Accidents (RTA) are most probably the leading cause of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in developed countries. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) disturbances, due to psychological trauma, are part of the pathophysiology of PTSD. The aim of the present study was to determine whether early heart rate variability (HRV) measurement, a biomarker of the ANS function, could act as a predictor of PTSD development after a RTA.
Risky health behavior among adolescents in the childhood cancer survivor study cohort.	To report the prevalence and comparison of cancer-linked health behaviors and identify risk factors associated with unhealthy behavior among adolescent siblings and cancer survivors.
Type D personality is associated with increased comorbidity burden and health care utilization among 3080 cancer survivors.	Cancer survivors often report comorbid diseases, but there are individual differences in risk. Type D personality is a general propensity to psychological distress that is related to poor cardiovascular outcomes. In this study, we examined whether type D was also related to comorbidity burden and health care utilization among cancer survivors.
A cohort study of the recovery of health and wellbeing following colorectal cancer (CREW study): protocol paper.	The number of people surviving colorectal cancer has doubled in recent years. While much of the literature suggests that most people return to near pre-diagnosis status following surgery for colorectal cancer, this literature has largely focused on physical side effects. Longitudinal studies in colorectal cancer have either been small scale or taken a narrow focus on recovery after surgery. There is a need for a comprehensive, long-term study exploring all aspects of health and wellbeing in colorectal cancer patients. The aim of this study is to establish the natural history of health and wellbeing in people who have been treated for colorectal cancer. People have different dispositions, supports and resources, likely resulting in individual differences in restoration of health and wellbeing. The protocol described in this paper is of a study which will identify who is most at risk of problems, assess how quickly people return to a state of subjective health and wellbeing, and will measure factors which influence the course of recovery.
Impact of psychological problems in chemical warfare survivors with severe ophthalmologic complication, a cross sectional study.	Sulfur mustard (SM) has been used as a chemical warfare agent since the early twentieth century. Despite the large number of studies that have investigated SM induced ocular injuries, few of those studies have also focused on the psychological health status of victims. This study has evaluated the most prominent influences on the psychological health status of patients with severe SM induced ocular injuries.
Altruism in survivors of sexual violence: the typology of helping others.	Sexual violence is a significant and prevalent problem that affects many people in the United States. Helping others is one way people cope with, or heal from, sexual violence.
The effect of mindfulness-based therapy on symptoms of anxiety and depression in adult cancer patients and survivors: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	The use of mindfulness-based therapy (MBT) in oncology settings has become increasingly popular, and research in the field has rapidly expanded. The objective was by means of a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the current evidence for the effect of MBT on symptoms of anxiety and depression in adult cancer patients and survivors.
Children and young people who are refugees, internally displaced persons or survivors or perpetrators of war, mass violence and terrorism.	This article draws upon articles published since 2009 to identify research evidence about the psychosocial aspects of children and young people's responses to their exposure to war, collective violence and terrorism.
PKC is genetically linked to memory capacity in healthy subjects and to risk for posttraumatic stress disorder in genocide survivors.	Strong memory of a traumatic event is thought to contribute to the development and symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Therefore, a genetic predisposition to build strong memories could lead to increased risk for PTSD after a traumatic event. Here we show that genetic variability of the gene encoding PKC (PRKCA) was associated with memory capacity--including aversive memory--in nontraumatized subjects of European descent. This finding was replicated in an independent sample of nontraumatized subjects, who additionally underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). fMRI analysis revealed PRKCA genotype-dependent brain activation differences during successful encoding of aversive information. Further, the identified genetic variant was also related to traumatic memory and to the risk for PTSD in heavily traumatized survivors of the Rwandan genocide. Our results indicate a role for PKC in memory and suggest a genetic link between memory and the risk for PTSD.
Social support and physical activity engagement by cancer survivors.	Less than 20% of adult cancer survivors participate in physical activity and, as a result of such inactivity, cancer survivors are at increased risk for developing chronic diseases. Studies have linked social support as a predictor of physical activity participation in healthy adults. The primary goal of this systematic review is to examine the relationship between social support and physical activity engagement in adult cancer survivors and determine whether additional research is needed in this area. Several databases were searched and articles were systematically extracted according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. That search yielded 69 articles, 22 of which were identified and included in this review. Fifty percent of the studies showed a significant relationship between social support and physical activity engagement; however, 59% of the participants were breast cancer survivors. The findings suggest that additional research is needed to develop social support strategies that will increase physical activity engagement in adult survivors of cancers other than breast cancer.
Coping strategies in female survivors of childhood sexual abuse from two Canadian and two New Zealand cultural groups.	Individuals from some minority cultures are at greater risk of experiencing childhood sexual abuse (CSA) and are also at heightened risk of negative outcomes from abuse. Coping strategies, which may mediate the relationship between CSA and outcomes, are also impacted by culture. This study examined the use of coping strategies in female survivors of CSA across 4 cultural groupings from 2 countries-86 European Canadians, 40 Native Canadians, 129 European New Zealanders, and 35 Mori New Zealanders-who all completed the Coping Responses Inventory. The 4 groups differed significantly on 7 of the 8 Coping Responses Inventory scales (Logical Analysis, Positive Reappraisal, Problem Solving, Cognitive Avoidance, Acceptance or Resignation, Seeking Alternative Rewards, Emotional Discharge). Whereas New Zealanders differed significantly from Canadians (p<.001), Europeans did not differ significantly from indigenous cultural groups, nor did nationality and culture grouping interact (p>.05). The profile of coping in New Zealand Europeans was relatively flat, with average scores across coping types close to the mean of the t-score distribution. Mori New Zealanders produced a similar profile, with only slight increases on 2 scales of avoidant coping. The findings raise questions about the extent to which generalizations can be made about there being either a "Western/European" culture or a particular "indigenous" culture. This in turn also raises the issue of whether cross-validation and replication of findings are needed if the findings are to be applied outside of the country in which the data were gathered.
The effect of aging and cancer on the symptom experience and physical function of elderly breast cancer survivors.	The majority of cancer survivors are aged  65 years, yet, historically, cancer research has focused infrequently on older patients. The objective of this study was to examine predictors of physical function within a framework that integrates the gerontologic and oncologic needs of older cancer survivors.
What can multiwave studies teach us about disaster research: an analysis of low-income Hurricane Katrina survivors.	Previous research on natural disasters has been limited by a lack of predisaster data and statistical analyses that do not adequately predict change in psychological symptoms. In the current study, we addressed these limitations through analysis of 3 waves of data from a longitudinal investigation of 313 low-income, African American mothers who were exposed to Hurricane Katrina. Although postdisaster cross-sectional estimates of the impact of traumatic stress exposure and postdisaster social support on postdisaster psychological distress were somewhat inflated, the general trends persisted when controlling for predisaster data (B = 0.88 and -0.33, vs. B = 0.81 and -0.27, respectively). Hierarchical linear modeling of the 3 waves of data revealed that lower predisaster social support was associated with higher psychological distress at the time of the disaster ( = -.16), and that higher traumatic stress exposure was associated with greater increases in psychological distress after the storm ( = .86). Based on the results, we suggest that the impact of traumatic stress on psychological trajectories cannot be accounted for solely by preexisting risk, and recommend more complex research designs to further illuminate the complex, dynamic relationships between psychological distress, traumatic stress exposure, and social support.
Peritraumatic distress: its relationship to posttraumatic stress and complicated grief symptoms in sudden death survivors.	Although sudden death has been linked to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), its role in complicated grief (CG) and sudden death survivors is unknown. This questionnaire study investigated the role of peritraumatic distress in PTSD and CG symptoms in adults (n = 125) an average of 28.37 months (SD = 3.12) after a loved one's sudden death. The Peritraumatic Distress Inventory, Impact of Event Scale-Revised, and Inventory of Complicated Grief were administered to assess symptoms of peritraumatic distress, PTSD, and CG, respectively. Peritraumatic distress was the strongest correlate of both PTSD ( = .42, p < .001) and CG ( = .39, p < .001) symptoms, in a model containing current distress (Hopkins Symptom Checklist-21). Peritraumatic distress may be a key mechanism in the development of both PTSD and CG, therefore suddenly bereaved individuals reporting higher peritraumatic distress may be at risk of both adverse trauma and grief reactions.
Mindful movement program for older breast cancer survivors: a pilot study.	Older breast cancer survivors (BCSs) are at risk for late and long-term treatment effects on quality of life (QOL), including lower physical functioning and fear of recurrence. Two promising approaches to address this include dance/movement therapy and mindfulness.
Trauma: memories of childhood sexual abuse.	Childhood sexual abuse can have big implications for a woman both physically and psychologically during childbearing. There are aspects of midwifery practice such as vaginal examinations which can have devastating effects for survivors of childhood abuse because of their similarities to sexual abuse. There are steps which can be taken by student midwives and midwives alike to not only prevent the re-traumatisation of the survivors of childhood sexual abuse but empower them through their pregnancy and birthing experience. This article is based on a presentation to fellow students in which Stephanie Marriott examined the issues.
Helping survivors to adjust after cancer.	The concept of "cancer survivorship" has received considerable attention over the past three years as increasing numbers of people live with and beyond cancer. Previously, attention may have focused more on treatments for cancer and the likelihood of their success. In recent years, interest has moved to the after-effects of treatment, and how people can return to their lives while recovering. This article discusses the various ways in which cancer and its treatment may affect survivors, and how nurses, in both hospital and the community, can help them to adjust and recover.
Differences in fatigue experiences among patients with advanced cancer, cancer survivors, and the general population.	Fatigue is a multidimensional symptom experienced physically, cognitively, and emotionally. Research on fatigue experiences in various stages of cancer might help to elucidate the nature of cancer-related fatigue.
Stigma of Suicide Attempt (STOSA) scale and Stigma of Suicide and Suicide Survivor (STOSASS) scale: two new assessment tools.	This study aimed at validating two new assessment tools, the Stigma of Suicide Attempt (STOSA) scale and the Stigma of Suicide and Suicide Survivor (STOSASS) scale. The Devaluation-Discrimination scale of Link et al. was translated into Italian and adapted to measure stigma towards suicidal behavior. Both scales were administered to a mixed sample including members of the general population (n=282), patients with a mental disorder (n=113), suicide attempters (n=57) and people who had lost a significant other to suicide (n=75). Reliability of the scales was good in terms of both internal coherence and test-retest stability. Factor analysis produced an acceptable solution for the STOSA-scale. Items were distributed into two factors, one grouping items to measure supportive, respectful and caring attitudes, the other factor grouping items oriented towards stigmatizing attitudes and beliefs. The clinical populations were more inclined towards stigmatization of suicide than were people from the general population, who might be less aware of the stigma attached to suicide. The two scales may be helpful to quantify stigma at individual level in order to provide targeted supportive interventions, and at population level to measure changes in the beliefs and attitudes of the general population.
Is family functioning and communication associated with health-related quality of life for Chinese- and Korean-American breast cancer survivors?	This study aims to investigate direct and indirect pathways of family flexibility, social support, and family communication on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) for Chinese- and Korean-American breast cancer survivors (BCS).
Multilevel socioeconomic effects on quality of life in adolescent and young adult survivors of leukemia and lymphoma.	Cancer registry survival analyses have shown that adolescent and young adult patients with low socioeconomic status (SES) have reduced survival compared to those with higher SES. The objective of this study was to determine whether neighborhood- (nSES) and/or individual-level SES (iSES) also predicted current quality of life in adolescent and young adult survivors.
Pain and other symptoms and their relationship to quality of life in cancer patients on opioids.	The purpose of this study was to assess pain, other symptoms and QOL, and the relationship between these variables, among cancer patients on strong opioids.
Psychological assessment of torture survivors: essential steps, avoidable errors, and helpful resources.	This article provides ideas, information, and resources that may be helpful in conducting psychological evaluations of people who have been tortured. The first section discusses essential steps, including achieving competence; clarifying the purpose; selecting methods appropriate to the individual, the purpose, and the situation; addressing issues of culture and language; maintaining awareness of ways in which the presence of third parties and recording can affect the assessment; attending carefully to similarities, echoes, and triggers; and actively searching for ways to transcend our own limited experiences and misleading expectations. The second section discusses avoiding five common errors that undermine these evaluations: mismatched validity; confirmation bias; confusing retrospective and prospective accuracy (switching conditional probabilities); ignoring the effects of low base rates; and misinterpreting dual high base rates. The third section identifies resources on the web (e.g., major centers, legal services, online courses, information about asylum and refuge, networks of torture survivors, human rights organizations providing information and services, guides to assessment) that people working with torture survivors, refugees, and asylum-seekers may find helpful.
A unique interactive cognitive behavioral training program for front-line cancer care professionals.	For between one third and one half of all cancer survivors, disturbances in mood and cognition do not end with the conclusion of treatment. Recognizing this problem, the Institute of Medicine emphasized in its 2008 report, the importance of addressing psychosocial issues, such as distress, to providing quality cancer care. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) has recognized that there is a severe lack of trained professionals who can address these needs. In response to this need, an interactive training program was developed and implemented to teach frontline cancer care professionals Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) skills. This training includes a structured curriculum, centered around a 3-day training workshop that includes didactic discussion, small group interactive sessions, role playing, post course support, and follow-up evaluation. Four of the planned eight workshops have been conducted thus far and indicate successful recruitment and implementation of a unique training model related to the CBT skills learned.
In their own words: displaced children's educational recovery needs after Hurricane Katrina.	Children may experience psychological, physical, and educational vulnerability as the result of a disaster. Of these 3 vulnerability types, educational vulnerability has received the most limited scholarly attention. The 2 primary objectives of this research are to describe what forms of educational support displaced children said that they needed after Hurricane Katrina and to identify who or what facilitated children's educational recovery.
Exploring resilience: strengths of trafficking survivors in Cambodia.	Western literature provides an array of information regarding resilience within at-risk youth. Resilience research within non-Western contexts, and more specifically with exploited youth, is more limited. Despite exploitation, some youth develop a hardy ability to overcome adversity, allowing them more mastery over their environments and even increased psychological steadfastness. This project involved exploring the protective factors of resilience and psychological functioning in Cambodian youth, specifically a group of 24 survivors of sexual trafficking and another group of 24 rural youth without reported exploitation. The ages of participants ranged from 13 to 22 years, with the average age being 15.62 years [standard deviation (SD=2.68)]. Results indicated resilience constructs (mastery and relatedness) correlated with psychological functioning (anxiety and depression), as expected. The sense of relatedness was moderately associated with age. Also, as predicted, the trafficked young women demonstrated more resilience and less pathology. Consistent with previous research, earlier trauma is believed to inoculate survivors of trauma against further stress, mobilize them to better confront adversity and reduce psychological disruptions. Understanding these issues can help in understanding the relationship between resilience factors and psychological functioning as well as the strengths of many trauma survivors. Their strengths are particularly useful for developing effective treatment protocols for traumatized youth from non-Western backgrounds.
The present level of post-traumatic stress symptoms in a sample of child survivors of World War II]	The aim of the study was to estimate the prevalence of PTSD and level of symptoms more broadly considered as post-traumatic e.g. depression among Polish child survivors of World War II.
Comprehensive care and pregnancy: the unmet care needs of pregnant women with a history of rape.	This paper proposes a framework for assessing the unmet needs of rape survivors during pregnancy based on the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) practice level theory and an empirical exploration of rape survivors' health status in pregnancy via a secondary analysis. Our findings indicate that there may be unmet needs in pregnancy related to all five post-assault comprehensive care components: (1) physical care, (2) pregnancy prevention, (3) sexually transmitted infection screening, (4) psychological care, and (5) legal care. Rape history and its current impact on the survivor predicted somatic disorders, substance use, unwanted pregnancy, infections, posttraumatic stress disorder, and recent abuse.
Malnutrition in early life and adult mental health: evidence from a natural experiment.	As natural experiments, famines provide a unique opportunity to test the health consequences of nutritional deprivation during the critical period of early life. Using data on 4972 Chinese born between 1956 and 1963 who participated in a large mental health epidemiology survey conducted between 2001 and 2005, we investigated the potential impact of exposure to the 1959-1961 Chinese Famine in utero and during the early postnatal life on adult mental illness. The risk of mental illness was assessed with the 12-item General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12) and eight other risk factors, and the famine impact on adult mental illness was estimated by difference-in-difference models. Results show that compared with unexposed women born in 1963, women born during the famine years (1959-1961) had higher GHQ scores (increased by 0.95 points; CI: 0.26, 1.65) and increased risk of mental illness (OR = 2.80; CI: 1.23, 6.39); those born in 1959 were the most affected and had GHQ scores 1.52 points higher (CI: 0.42, 2.63) and an OR for mental illness of 4.99 (CI: 1.68, 14.84). Compared to men in the 1963 birth cohort, men born during the famine had lower GHQ scores (decreased by 0.89 points; CI: -1.59, -0.20) and a nonsignificant decrease in the risk of mental illness (OR = 0.60; CI: 0.26, 1.40). We speculate that the long-term consequences of early-life famine exposure include both the selection of the hardiest and the enduring deleterious effects of famine on those who survive. The greater biological vulnerability and stronger natural selection in utero of male versus female fetuses during severe famine may result in a stronger selection effect among men than women, obscuring the deleterious impact of famine exposure on the risk of mental illness in men later in life.
Emergency mental health and psychosocial support for survivors of post-election violence in Eldoret, Kenya.	To describe the design and delivery of emergency mental health and psychosocial support services for the survivors of Post-Election Violence in Eldoret, Kenya.
Are survivorship care plans responsive to African-American breast cancer survivors?: voices of survivors and advocates.	African-American breast cancer survivors (AABCS) suffer the greatest from cancer recurrence, morbidity, and mortality in part due to the lack of cancer follow-up care and surveillance. To improve survival and survivorship, the Institute of Medicine advises that cancer survivors be provided a survivorship care plan (SCP). The current study investigated AABCS' understanding of SCP and gathered preliminary feedback on infusing cultural and socioecological responsiveness.
Family physician preferences and knowledge gaps regarding the care of adolescent and young adult survivors of childhood cancer.	Childhood cancer survivors are at risk for long-term morbidity and early mortality. Since most adult and some adolescent survivors of childhood cancer will receive their long-term care from a primary care physician, we sought to determine family physicians' comfort with caring for this population.
Fear of cancer recurrence in adult cancer survivors: a systematic review of quantitative studies.	Fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) is among the most commonly reported problems and one of the most prevalent areas of unmet needs for cancer survivors and their carers. This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of current scientific knowledge on FCR and to formulate recommendations for future research.
A randomized trial of a Facebook-based physical activity intervention for young adult cancer survivors.	Over half of young adult cancer survivors do not meet physical activity (PA) guidelines. PA interventions can enhance health and quality of life among young adult cancer survivors. However, few exercise interventions have been designed and tested in this population. This study evaluated the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of a 12-week, Facebook-based intervention (FITNET) aimed at increasing moderate-to-vigorous intensity PA compared with a Facebook-based self-help comparison (SC) condition.
Dose-response relationships between physical activity, social participation, and health-related quality of life in colorectal cancer survivors.	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between physical activity (PA), social participation, and health-related quality of life (HQOL) in older, long-term colorectal cancer survivors.
Symptoms of depression in survivors of severe sepsis: a prospective cohort study of older Americans.	To examine if incident severe sepsis is associated with increased risk of subsequent depressive symptoms and to assess which patient characteristics are associated with increased risk of depressive symptoms.
Potential gonadotoxicity of treatment in relation to quality of life and mental well-being of male survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Results of earlier studies concerning quality of life (QOL) and psychosocial coping of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survivors have been inconsistent. Some treatments for ALL affect testicular function and we hypothesized that this may influence the QOL and psychosocial coping of male survivors. Our aims were to assess the QOL and psychosocial coping of male long-term ALL survivors and to evaluate the effect of both testosterone level and the potential gonadotoxicity of various treatment modalities on them.
Military and civilian disaster response and resilience: from gene to policy.	Disasters, such as war, terrorism, and natural disasters, affect individuals, groups, and communities. Although the focus is often on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), it is only one of many potential responses to traumatic experiences. Fostering community and individual resilience can help mitigate the effects of disaster. Research, education, and early intervention are integral tools to inform an effective response. The Center for the Study of Traumatic Stress (CSTS) at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences ascribes to such a model in its approach. Recent studies confirm that appreciation of biology and its relation to trauma response are necessary to our understanding of trauma's effects on humans, including trauma-associated disorders, resiliency, and recovery.
Depressive symptoms are a risk factor for all-cause mortality: results from a prospective population-based study among 3,080 cancer survivors from the PROFILES registry.	The goal of this large prospective population-based study was to examine the association between depressive symptoms and all-cause mortality among cancer survivors up to 10years post-diagnosis.
Cancer survivors with self-reported late effects: their health status, care needs and service utilisation.	Cancer survivors (CSs) are at risk of developing late effects (LEs) associated with the disease and its treatment. This paper compares the health status, care needs and use of health services by CSs with LEs and CSs without LEs.
Sexual function in childhood cancer survivors: a report from Project REACH.	Of the approximately 12,000 children and adolescents that will be diagnosed with cancer in 2013, it is expected that over 80% of them will become long-term adult survivors of childhood cancer. Although it has been well established that cancer treatment often has profound negative impact on sexual functioning, sexual functioning in adult survivors of childhood cancer is not well understood.
Surviving depressive ill-health: a qualitative systematic review of older persons' narratives.	The aim of this qualitative systematic review was to report a comprehensive literature synthesis of older persons' narratives about what they need in order to survive when suffering from depression. Their survival strategies seem to be a state rarely outlined in the literature. A systematic search of EBSCOhost/Academic Search Premier, ProQuest and PubMed was conducted for the period January 2000 to April 2012. Data were analyzed by means of thematic analysis. Thirteen studies were selected and three themes emerged from synthesis: the need for courage, strength, and self-reliance; the meaning of responsibility; and wearing a mask of normalcy to hide the shame. The first comprised two subthemes: the value of faith and distraction and activity; the second had no subtheme; and the third had one subtheme: reaching out of loneliness towards aloneness and connectivity. Further research should be focused on how community projects can improve health services such as enhancing the safety of health care and disseminating health information. 
Factors related to decision making and substance use in adolescent survivors of childhood cancer: a presenting clinical profile.	Adolescent survivors of childhood cancer are more vulnerable to the consequences of health risk behaviors because of the late effects of their disease and its treatment. Decision making related to risk behaviors is important as they have reached an age during which initiation of substance use risk behavior is common.
Low socioeconomic status and mental health outcomes in colorectal cancer survivors: disadvantage? advantage?... or both?	The goal of this study is to examine the relationship between socioeconomic status (SES) and both positive and negative mental health (MH) outcomes in a population-based sample of colorectal cancer survivors. On the basis of theoretical conceptualizations of trauma and posttraumatic growth, low SES was hypothesized to be positively associated with both greater negative MH outcomes (e.g., distress) and greater positive MH outcomes (e.g., growth).
Effectiveness of an integrated adventure-based training and health education program in promoting regular physical activity among childhood cancer survivors.	There is growing concern about declining levels of physical activity in childhood cancer survivors. This study aimed to examine the effectiveness of an integrated adventure-based training and health education program in promoting changes in exercise behavior and enhancing the physical activity levels, self-efficacy, and quality of life of Hong Kong Chinese childhood cancer survivors.
Spiritual well-being in long-term colorectal cancer survivors with ostomies.	Spiritual well-being (SpWB) is integral to health-related quality of life. The challenges of colorectal cancer (CRC) and subsequent bodily changes can affect SpWB. We analyzed the SpWB of CRC survivors with ostomies.
A literature review of the social and psychological needs of ovarian cancer survivors.	To identify and comprehensively present the psychosocial needs of ovarian cancer (OvCa) survivors, including young survivors <45 years of age.
A qualitative exploration of barriers and motivators to physical activity participation in women treated for breast cancer.	The adoption and maintenance of a physically active lifestyle among women after breast cancer is an important priority for public health and rehabilitation science. The purpose of this qualitative study was to explore breast cancer survivors' perceptions of the factors influencing their ability to maintain a self-directed physical activity program.
The prevalence and correlates of supportive care needs in testicular cancer survivors: a cross-sectional study.	This cross-sectional study aimed to identify the prevalence and correlates of supportive care needs in testicular cancer (TC) survivors.
'Someone to hold the hand over me': the significance of transpersonal 'attachment' relationships of Danish cancer survivors.	The aim of this article is to present findings about self-reported spirituality of a group of Danish cancer survivors. The findings derive from a qualitative study that was carried out during rehabilitation week courses at a Danish rehabilitation centre. Methods comprised participant observation, semi-structured interviews and focus group interviews. Employing interpretative phenomenological analysis as analytical strategy, a prominent part of the informants' self-reported spirituality was found to centre around a perceived sense of relatedness to a transpersonal entity that transcends the self and extends beyond spatial-temporal boundaries. Three transpersonal entities were identified: 'God', a 'guardian angel' and a 'deceased family member'. The key findings of the study demonstrate that the transpersonal entities were experienced as empowering and supportive resources during cancer treatment and rehabilitation and that they were furthermore perceived as responsible for the informants' healing and survival. These findings are interpreted through the lenses of two interrelated theoretical frameworks: Hay and Nye's approach to spirituality as 'relational consciousness' and Kirkpatrick and colleagues' understanding of religion and/or spirituality as attachment relationships. These two theoretical understandings are suggested as useful frameworks for capturing spiritual dimensions of cancer survivors' meaning making and coping in a secular society. 
Startle reactivity in the long-term after severe accidental injury: preliminary data.	An exaggerated startle response is one of the core hyperarousal symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Heightened startle eye-blink magnitude and reduced habituation of this response in PTSD patients have been reported in several studies. However, it is unclear whether this is an enduring characteristic of individuals vulnerable for PTSD or to which degree trauma-exposed individuals who do not develop PTSD also show exaggerated startle. Thirteen accident survivors with remitted PTSD, 12 trauma controls, and 16 non-trauma controls were examined. Four measures of startle reactivity were analyzed in response to 15 bursts of white noise (95 dB, 50 ms): eye-blink magnitude, eye-blink onset latency, skin conductance response, and heart rate response. The eye-blink reflex was measured over the left musculus orbicularis oculi. Reactivity and habituation were analyzed using linear mixed models. Remitted PTSD subjects did not differ from non-trauma controls regarding any of the startle reactivity or habituation measures. Unexpectedly, trauma controls showed larger eye-blink magnitude than non-trauma controls. These results suggest that the exaggerated startle response disappears after remission from PTSD. Further, they suggest that psychologically resilient trauma survivors might show a PTSD-like pattern of exaggerated physiological startle even many years after a traumatic event.
Depression among stroke survivors: a community-based, prospective study from Kolkata, India.	Post-stroke depression (PSD) is a disabling entity among stroke survivors (SS). Longitudinal studies on PSD, essential to determine its prognosis, are lacking from developing countries. This prospective study was undertaken to assess the prevalence, natural history, and correlates of depression among SS in an Indian community.
Exposure to suicide and identification as survivor. Results from a random-digit dial survey.	There is little empirical evidence regarding lifetime exposure to suicide or identification of those impacted by suicide deaths. Studies previously conducted used only convenience samples.
Designing a multifaceted survivorship care plan to meet the information and communication needs of breast cancer patients and their family physicians: results of a qualitative pilot study.	Following the completion of treatment and as they enter the follow-up phase, breast cancer patients (BCPs) often recount feeling 'lost in transition', and are left with many questions concerning how their ongoing care and monitoring for recurrence will be managed. Family physicians (FPs) also frequently report feeling ill-equipped to provide follow-up care to BCPs. In this three-phase qualitative pilot study we designed, implemented and evaluated a multi-faceted survivorship care plan (SCP) to address the information needs of BCPs at our facility and of their FPs.
Influence of physical inactivity in psychophysiological state of breast cancer survivors.	Physical inactivity has been postulated as mediator of the relationship between cancer-related symptoms and psychoneurobiological alterations. The aim of the study was to evaluate the influence of physical inactivity level on mood state, fitness level as well as on salivary markers of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (cortisol) and the SNS (-amylase) in breast cancer survivors. One hundred and eight breast cancer survivors (stages I-IIIa) participated in this cross-sectional study. Data were gathered on the following: Minnesota Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire, profile of mood state, 6-min walk test, force handgrip, blood pressure, salivary cortisol concentration and salivary -amylase activity. For our analysis, two groups were formed based on physical activity level measured as energy expenditure during diary leisure activities of the participants at the moment of the study, a physical inactivity level group (<3 METs  h/week) and an adequate physical activity level group (>3 METs  h/week). Fitness level was significantly higher in the active than the inactive group, while anger, fatigue, depression, confusion, mood disturbance, diastolic blood pressure and salivary -amylase activity were significantly greater in the inactive than the active group. These results suggest that physical inactivity induces a worse psychoneurobiological state in inactive than in active breast cancer survivors. 
Is the Holocaust implicated in posttraumatic growth in second-generation Holocaust survivors? A prospective study.	With the growing interest in posttraumatic growth (PTG), and the ongoing debate on the implications of transgenerational transmission of trauma, this longitudinal study examined PTG among Holocaust survivor offspring following their own exposure to trauma. Using self-report questionnaires, we assessed PTG over time in middle aged (age: M = 53 years) Israeli male combat veterans of the 1973 Yom Kippur War whose parents were (n = 43) and were not (n = 156) second-generation survivors of the Nazi Holocaust at 2 time points: 30 and 35 years following the war (in 2003 and 2008). Posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms and trauma exposure were also assessed in 1991. We hypothesized that second-generation survivors would report more PTG than controls. However, repeated measures design revealed that the second-generation veterans reported less PTG than veterans who were not second generation, which was evident in the PTG domains of relations to others, personal strength, and appreciation of life. Our findings suggest that transmission of trauma from one generation to the next is possibly implicated in the offspring's propensity for growth following subsequent trauma. Future research is warranted to examine the link between transmission of trauma and positive outcomes following trauma. 
Translating research findings to promote peace: moving from "field to forum" with verbatim theatre.	Peace, both personal and global, resides in understanding. Verbatim theatre is introduced as a vehicle for translating research findings to promote understanding and thereby, promote health. By shifting our translation lens from "bench to bedside" to "field to forum," new opportunities arise for moving nursing research-findings to an engaged audience. Stories from Pearl Harbor and Hiroshima survivors were woven into the verbatim performance, With Their Voices Raised. Analysis of audience members' reflections after the performance suggests that verbatim theatre created a connection based in openness, engagement, and trust that informed understanding and raised awareness about peace processes. 
Considering quality of life for children with cancer: a systematic review of patient-reported outcome measures and the development of a conceptual model.	An appraisal of pediatric cancer-specific quality-of-life (QOL) instruments revealed a lack of clarity about what constitutes QOL in this population. This study addresses this concern by identifying the concepts that underpin the construct of QOL as determined by a content analysis of all patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments used in childhood cancer research.
Risk factors for mental disorders in women survivors of human trafficking: a historical cohort study.	Previous studies have found high levels of symptoms of depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder among women survivors of human trafficking. No previous research has described risk factors for diagnosed mental disorders in this population.
Health care and female survivors of childhood sexual abuse: health professionals' perspectives.	The present study explored health professionals' experiences with adult survivors of child sexual abuse in New Zealand. Face-to-face, semistructured interviews of up to an hour took place with 13 health professionals. The participants were asked about training, screening practices, their response to disclosures, and advice to other health professionals. A model-transition to ethical practice-emerged from the data, where delivering more sensitive health care to child sexual abuse survivors sits on a continuum from lack of awareness of child sexual abuse to delivery of care where all patients are comfortable. We recommend making sensitive care for all as the standard care of practice and providing training for health professionals on how to deal with disclosures. 
Effects of an online support group for prostate cancer survivors: a randomized trial.	This longitudinal study evaluated the effect a prostate cancer-specific online support group had for self-assessed quality of life. Participants (N = 40) were randomly assigned to an online support group or the control group. Data consisted of four previously validated quality-of-life measurements. Analysis determined that over time, quality of life improved for those in the online group and decreased for those in the control group, but returned to baseline at eight weeks. Providing support using online methods is effective; the length of time this intervention should be provided to patients will require further research.
In-hospital acute stress symptoms are associated with impairment in cognition 1 year after intensive care unit admission.	Prior studies have found that cognitive dysfunction is common in intensive care unit (ICU) survivors. Yet, relatively little is known about potentially modifiable risk factors for longer-term post-ICU cognitive impairment.
Posttraumatic growth among men with histories of child sexual abuse.	Despite an increased risk of long-term mental health problems, many survivors of child sexual abuse (CSA) experience positive changes in areas such as appreciation for life, personal strength, and interpersonal relationships. Drawing on life course theory, this study examined factors related to posttraumatic growth among a sample of men with CSA histories (N = 487). Using multiple linear regression (i.e., ordinary least squares), we found that men who had a better understanding of the sexual abuse experience, who ascribed to less traditional masculine norms, and who experienced a turning point reported greater growth. To promote growth, practitioners can help survivors understand the meaning and impact of the abuse on their lives and deconstruct rigid gender norms. More research on growth is needed with male survivors, especially on the nature of turning points in the recovery process. 
Event centrality and posttraumatic outcomes in the context of pervasive violence: a study of teachers in El Salvador.	It is well established that the importance assigned to a trauma can affect one's recovery and psychological health in numerous ways. Event centrality is an increasingly popular construct that captures the tendency among survivors to reevaluate and possibly accommodate their worldviews posttrauma. The centrality given to trauma appears to serve as a "double-edged sword" in that this construct might factor prominently in both posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and posttraumatic growth (PTG). Focusing on 257 violence-exposed teachers from educational departments throughout El Salvador, we examined whether the centrality assigned by the teachers to stressful life events uniquely predicted both PTSD symptomatology and PTG. Results revealed that event centrality was positively related to both PTSD and PTG, even when controlling for demographic factors, violence exposure, and depression. In addition, PTSD symptomatology and PTG were not associated with one another in this sample. In summary, these findings support the role of event centrality as a contributing factor for PTSD and PTG among persons exposed to pervasive trauma. 
Patient-physician communication about health-related quality-of-life problems: are non-Hodgkin lymphoma survivors willing to talk?	To investigate non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) survivors' willingness to discuss health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) problems with their follow-up care physician.
Neuropsychological functions and quality of life in survived patients with intracranial germ cell tumors after treatment.	The notable survival chances of intracranial germ cell tumors (icGCTs) lead to a rising concern over long-term neurocognitive outcome. Yet, prior evidence related to this issue fails to provide a comprehensive examination of the effects of tumor location and radiotherapy. We attempt to explore their impacts on the neuropsychological functions and life quality in children with icGCT after multimodality treatments.
Clinical significance in self-rated HRQoL among survivors after childhood cancer - demonstrated by anchor-based thresholds.	There is a need to establish clinically relevant thresholds (anchors) for identification of differences in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and thereby provide stronger evidence regarding the HRQoL of childhood cancer survivors.
Survivorship after prostate cancer treatment: spouses' quality of life at 36 months.	To determine the long-term effects of prostate cancer treatment on spouse quality of life (QOL) at 36 months following treatment.
Barriers and facilitators to implementing cancer survivorship care plans.	To evaluate the process of survivorship care plan (SCP) completion and to survey oncology staff and primary care physicians (PCPs) regarding challenges of implementing SCPs.
It's the "good" cancer, so who cares? Perceived lack of support among young thyroid cancer survivors.	To describe the survivorship experience of young adult patients with thyroid cancer.
Development and psychometric testing of a breast cancer survivor self-efficacy scale.	To describe the development of a self-efficacy instrument that measures perceived ability to manage symptoms and quality-of-life problems resulting from the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer.
The effect of psychosocial interventions delivered by telephone and videophone on quality of life in early-stage breast cancer survivors and their supportive partners.	We examined the effectiveness of two psychosocial interventions for improving QOL in recently diagnosed breast cancer survivors and their partners. The interventions were telephone health education (THE) and interpersonal counselling. The latter was delivered by telephone (TC) or by videophone (VC) in 8 weekly one-to-one sessions. Fifty two dyads composed of a woman with breast cancer and her supportive partner were randomly assigned to THE, TC or VC. The average age of the survivors was 53 years (range 40-66), and they were mainly white, married, with a college education, and employed. Approximately half of the supportive partners were spouses. Surveys of quality of life (QOL) were made at three points in the study, each separated by 8 weeks. There was significantly higher attrition in the THE group compared to the videophone or telephone counselling groups among both survivors (44% vs. 10% and 8%) and partners (44% vs. 10% and 15%). Regardless of group, participants showed increased QOL over time. Survivors' and partners' social well-being improved in the telephone and videophone interpersonal counselling treatment groups, but not in the health education group. Telephone-delivered psychosocial interventions can be effective for managing QOL in breast cancer survivors and their supportive partners. There was no evidence of superior outcomes associated with using videophones over the conventional telephone. 
Psychosocial challenges and resource needs of young adult cancer survivors: implications for program development.	Young adult (YA) cancer survivors have specific needs because of their age and life stage. The authors investigated the challenges and resource needs of YA survivors, exploring the influence of age at diagnosis (i.e., diagnosis during childhood vs. young adulthood) and the diagnosis of a brain tumor. The authors conducted four focus groups with YA survivors (N = 22, age 18-35), treated for brain tumors or other cancers in childhood (mean age at diagnosis  SD: brain, 10.7  2.86; other cancers, 10.5  3.51) or as YAs (brain, 23.5  4.04; other cancers, 25.6  4.10). Transcripts of audiotaped sessions were coded using thematic analysis. Common challenges across the groups included physical appearance, fertility, late effects, social relationships, and changing priorities. Childhood cancer survivors struggled with identity formation, social isolation, and health care transitions. Concerns specific to survivors diagnosed as YAs included financial independence and protecting parents. Childhood brain tumor survivors struggled with cognitive deficits, limited career options, and poor social skills, whereas brain tumor survivors diagnosed as YAs emphasized cognitive decline, loss of autonomy, and living with an incurable disease. Despite the unique challenges identified, all groups described similar resource needs including peer support, age-specific information, and having health care providers proactively raise salient issues. Young adult cancer survivors have many similar psychosocial and information needs regardless of age at or type of diagnosis that differ from those of pediatric and older adult survivors. With improved survival rates, the small number of YA in any one institution will grow. It will become increasingly important to create comprehensive, age-appropriate YA programs that address overlapping and unique needs of survivors at this life stage. 
Screening for psychological well-being in childhood cancer survivors: a preliminary assessment of the feasibility of the strength and difficulties questionnaire as a parent-proxy report.	This article describes the feasibility of utilizing the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) as a brief psychosocial screener among survivors of pediatric cancer. Participants were parents of a child/adolescent diagnosed with cancer who were off treatment (n = 35) and a subset of adolescents (n = 14). Parent-proxy report using the SDQ was significantly associated with the Child Health Questionnaire. Parents who self-reported long-term uncertainty about their child's illness were more likely to report child psychosocial difficulties. A trend for concordance between patient and parent-proxy report of the SDQ was observed. These preliminary results highlight the potential utility of the SDQ as a screening tool for detection of child/adolescent psychosocial well-being. Further research, with larger samples, is needed to support these results. 
The impact of immigration detention on the mental health of torture survivors is poorly documented--a systematic review.	Torture has enduring mental and physical health consequences for survivors. Detention of asylum seekers is an integrated part of the immigration systems in many countries. Among the asylum seekers are vulnerable groups such as survivors of torture and severely traumatized refugees. The aim of the present study is to review the scientific evidence on the mental health consequences of immigration detention for adult survivors of torture.
The desire for children and fertility issues among young German cancer survivors.	For young cancer patients, family planning is not always completed at the time of cancer diagnosis. This study investigated young cancer patients' desire to have children, its intensity, and their discussion with oncologists and fertility specialists about fertility. Furthermore, gender differences, differences between childless patients and patients with children, and correlations with psychological distress were analyzed.
Socioeconomic and clinical characteristics associated with repeat suicide attempts among young people.	Repeat suicidal behaviors in young people are a critical public health concern. The study investigates individual socioeconomic and episode-dependent clinical factors predicting repeat suicide attempts among youth by gender.
Survivors of childhood cancer in South Australia attending a late-effects clinic: a descriptive report of psychological, cognitive, and academic late-effects.	This study provides a description of psychological late effects among a heterogeneous cohort of pediatric cancer survivors (N = 70) attending the South Australian Late-effects Clinic. Survivors reported more problems on the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire and the Child Behavior Checklist compared to normative data but no differences in Sluggish Cognitive Tempo scores. Forty-six percent of the sample reported school difficulties, and 12% of the sample age older than 15 reported smoking. Late-effects clinics should continue to monitor psychological well-being and health behaviors. Further research is recommended to determine whether sluggish cognitive tempo is a useful concept for the assessment of survivors. 
Relations among optimism, perceived health vulnerability, and academic, self-regulatory, and social self-efficacy in adolescent survivors of childhood cancer.	This study investigated relations among optimism, perceived health vulnerability, treatment intensity, and academic, self-regulatory, and social self-efficacy in adolescent survivors of childhood cancer. Fifty-six adolescent survivors (Mage = 16.19years, SD = 2.48) completed questionnaires. Compared to a previously published sample of adolescents without a history of cancer, survivors reported similar academic, higher self-regulatory, and lower social self-efficacy. Optimism and health vulnerability were associated with changes in academic, self-regulatory, and social self-efficacy. Cancer-specific variables (e.g., treatment intensity, time since treatment ended) were unrelated to self-efficacy. Interventions aimed at enhancing self-efficacy may benefit from exploring optimism and health vulnerabilities as mechanisms for change. 
Population-level trends in posttreatment cancer survivors' concerns and associated receipt of care: results from the 2006 and 2010 LIVESTRONG surveys.	There is a need to better understand the posttreatment concerns of the nearly 14 million survivors of cancer alive in the United States today and their receipt of care. Using data from 2,910 posttreatment survivors of cancer from the 2006 or 2010 LIVESTRONG Surveys, the authors examined physical, emotional, and practical concerns, receipt of care, and trends in these outcomes at the population level.
Cardiac arrest and hypothermia treatment--function and life satisfaction among survivors in the first 6 months.	To describe differences over time in outcome, physical and cognitive function among survivors of cardiac arrest treated with hypothermia and to examine survivors' life satisfaction 6 months after cardiac arrest as well as gender differences.
Prevalence and correlates of sexual morbidity in long-term breast cancer survivors.	Breast cancer survivors report adverse sexual effects (sexual morbidity) such as disrupted sexual function, sexual distress and body dissatisfaction. However, most studies have failed to evaluate the persistence of these effects in long-term survivors. The present study comprehensively assessed the prevalence and predictors of sexual/body image problems among survivors three or more years post diagnosis.
The impact of motherhood on perceived stress, illness intrusiveness and fear of cancer recurrence in young breast cancer survivors over time.	Parenting while coping with breast cancer can be challenging for many young women, yet little is known about the impact of motherhood on their well-being over time.
Neuropsychology reports for childhood brain tumor survivors: implementation of recommendations at home and school.	As pediatric brain tumor survivors may experience cognitive decline post-treatment, a neuropsychology assessment is often conducted. The assessment evaluates the child's cognitive functioning and highlights potential challenges. Whilst neuropsychology reports provide recommendations for the home and school, how this translates in practice is under researched. This study explored parent and teacher understanding of neuropsychology reports, implementation rates for recommendations and their perceived effectiveness. Barriers to implementation were also investigated.
Effect of age and race on quality of life in young breast cancer survivors.	Given their early age at diagnosis, young breast cancer survivors (YBCSs) face issues that differ widely from their older counterparts.
Prognostic factors that increase the risk for reduced white matter volumes and deficits in attention and learning for survivors of childhood cancers.	In children, CNS-directed cancer therapy is thought to result in decreased cerebral white matter volumes (WMV) and subsequent neurocognitive deficits. This study was designed as a prospective validation of the purported reduction in WMV, associated influential factors, and its relationship to neurocognitive deficits in a very large cohort of both acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and malignant brain tumors (BT) survivors in comparison to an age similar cohort of healthy sibling controls.
Predictors of complicated grief after a natural disaster: a population study two years after the 2004 South-East Asian tsunami.	The authors examined predictors of complicated grief (CG) in Norwegians 2 years after bereavement in the 2004 South-East Asian tsunami. A cross-sectional postal survey retrospectively covering disaster experiences and assessing CG according to the Inventory of Complicated Grief yielded 130 respondents (35 directly disaster-exposed and 95 not directly exposed), with 47.7% screening CG positive. They identified positive associations between CG and being female, losing a child or spouse, and time to death confirmation, and negative associations with previous losses, being employed, and receiving social support. Direct exposure did not increase CG risk. Support service providers should be aware of this high prevalence of severe, persistent grief.
The support needs and experiences of suicidally bereaved family and friends.	This study aimed to identify what suicidally bereaved persons', particularly close relatives' and loved ones' perceptions of their need for support were and their experiences of support directed at meeting those needs. A total of 166 persons who were bereaved by suicide completed a questionnaire consisting of both closed and open-ended questions. Overall, 94% of participants indicated a need for help to manage their grief but only 44% received help. Most participants indicated a great or significant need for help. In addition, only 40% of those who received professional support felt satisfied with it. The authors concluded that there is a significant gap between need for support and the quality and provision of professional support services.
Suicide postvention as suicide prevention: improvement and expansion in the United States.	The authors asserted the need for increased postvention efforts for suicide survivors, individuals left behind to grieve the loss of a loved one by suicide, because they have an increased risk for suicide. Indeed, Shneidman (1972) asserted that suicide postvention efforts serve the dual purpose of assisting survivors through the grief process and preventing suicide for future generations. First, the authors briefly discussed the increased risk for suicide among survivors. Second, the authors overviewed the potential benefits of postvention programs and current strategies for suicide postvention in the United States. Finally, they recommended plans for suicide postvention program development such as states should include efforts to create or expand traditional postvention services as well as active survivor outreach to link survivors to these services.
The effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for stroke family caregivers and stroke survivors: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	To evaluate the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for family caregivers on their psychosocial and physical wellbeing, quality of life, and the use of healthcare resources by stroke survivors.
The long-term effect of perioperative myocardial infarction on health-related quality-of-life after coronary artery bypass grafting.	To evaluate the long-term effect of perioperative myocardial infarction (PMI) on outcomes and health-related quality-of-life (QOL) after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Children of terrorism survivors: physiological reactions seven years following a terrorist incident.	The aim of this study was to examine psychiatric illness and physiological indicators in the children of Oklahoma City bombing survivors seven years after the event.
Strategies used by breast cancer survivors to address work-related limitations during and after treatment.	The primary objective of this exploratory study was to delineate the broad range of adjustments women breast cancer survivors draw upon to minimize cancer-related limitations at the workplace. The study also analyzed whether survivors used strategies to address work-related limitations in isolation or in combination with other strategies, and whether they used formal or informal strategies.
Social support sources, types, and generativity: a focus group study of cancer survivors and their caregivers.	Various research studies have identified the sources and types of support that people with cancer receive; however, few have focused on identifying the specific characteristics of emotional, instrumental, and informational support. In this study, focus groups consisting of Gilda's Club members explored the types of support that people with cancer and their caregivers experienced and valued. Results showed that although men and women with cancer and caregivers identify similar sources of support, they experience different types of support. Results also indicated a desire among participants to help and support others, a concept referred to as generativity. Implications for social workers and health care providers are explored. 
The presence of post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms in earthquake survivors one month after a mudslide in southwest China.	The psychological impact of a mudslide on survivors of the Wenchuan earthquake in China and the risk factors for development of disaster-related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) were investigated. The study design was cross-sectional and included 1321 survivors who had endured both an earthquake and a mudslide. Participants filled out a self-report questionnaire. One month after the mudslide, the rate of PTSD symptoms was 18.7%. Females, the elderly, those with lower educational levels, those that lacked social support, those who did not take precautionary measures, those living with children below 6 years of age, and those who had higher exposure to traumatic events experienced a higher level of PTSD symptoms. Results indicated that timely rescue, abundant material help, and mental rehabilitation after a disaster play important roles in recovery, and that there are still some high-risk groups that need attention, care, and effective intervention from healthcare professionals and society. 
What we can learn about recovery: lessons from the Fukushima survivors.	Recovery from disaster can take a lifetime, and people looking in from outside might not appreciate the stages of recovery. Little talked about is the stigma, which might attach to the survivors of a disaster, especially if it is a man-made disaster. This paper documents the account of a Japanese nursing student who visited the area 18 months after the Great East Japan earthquake and tsunami, talked to the people there, and shared her reflections. The experiences of the Fukushima survivors are linked to those of victims of other disasters, whose recovery was impeded by being discriminated against and stigmatized. 
How differently we should prepare for the next disaster?	Following the Great East Japan earthquake (the Big Quake) that hit the northeastern parts of Japan on March 11, 2011, aid was dispatched from multiple levels of organizations including the Japanese Nurses Association (JNA). Evidence indicates that the JNA did not play an effective role in the aid efforts, since the professional organization had pulled out and stopped sending nursing personnel from the end of April 2011. In view of the way that things were handled in terms of aid efforts immediately, a year, or two years after the Big Quake occurred, the authors of this paper have identified issues related to nurse's role at the time of the disaster. By looking back at what happened, we have gained insights into how to prepare for future disasters. 
Social support, nutrition intake, and physical activity in cancer survivors.	To examine depressive symptoms, hope, social support, and quality of life in relation to fruit and vegetable (FV) intake and physical activity (PA) among cancer survivors diagnosed within the past 4 years.
Social support predicts inflammation, pain, and depressive symptoms: longitudinal relationships among breast cancer survivors.	Pain and depressive symptoms are commonly experienced by cancer survivors. Lower social support is linked to a variety of negative mental and physical health outcomes among survivors. Immune dysregulation may be one mechanism linking low social support to the development of pain and depressive symptoms over time. Accordingly, the goal of the present study was to examine the relationships among survivors' social support, pain, depressive symptoms, and inflammation.
Late effects, social adjustment, and quality of life in adolescent survivors of childhood leukemia]	This study was conducted to examine the late effects, social adjustment, and quality of life in adolescents who had been completely treated for childhood leukemia and their parents.
Psychiatric diagnoses and psychoactive medication use among nonsurgical critically ill patients receiving mechanical ventilation.	The relationship between critical illness and psychiatric illness is unclear.
Addressing domestic violence in primary care: what the physician needs to know.	Domestic violence (DV) is quite prevalent and negatively impacts the health and mental wellbeing of those affected. Victims of DV are frequent users of health service, yet they are infrequently recognized. Physicians tend to treat the presenting complaints without addressing the root cause of the problem. Lack of knowledge on adequately managing cases of DV and on appropriate ways to help survivors is commonly presented as a barrier. This article presents the magnitude of the problem of DV in the Arab world, highlights the role of the primary care physician in addressing this problem, and provides practical steps that can guide the clinician in the Arab world in giving a comprehensive and culturally sensitive service to the survivors of DV. 
Rasch analysis of the Beck Depression Inventory-II in stroke survivors: a cross-sectional study.	The Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) is often used to assess depressive symptoms among stroke patients, but more evidence is needed regarding its psychometric properties in this population. The purpose of this study was to assess the BDI-IIs psychometric properties using a Rasch model application in a sample of patients 6 months after a first clinical stroke.
The status and correlates of depression and anxiety among breast-cancer survivors in Eastern China: a population-based, cross-sectional case-control study.	Breast cancer presents specific challenges both physiologically and psychologically to women, and consequently affect the patients' mental health. Psychosocial factors may play important roles in the symptoms and development of mental disorders among breast-cancer survivors. This study assesses the depression and anxiety status of breast-cancer survivors and further identifies the risk factors.
Behavioural profile and human adaptation of survivors after radical cystectomy and ileal conduit.	There is a lack of good data in the literature evaluating the Health-Related Quality of Life (HR- QoL) in patients with urinary diversions. The aim of this study was to examine the changes in expectation and needs in terms of human adaptation and behavioural profiles in patients with ileal conduit (IC) after radical cystectomy (RC) for bladder cancer (BC).
Posttraumatic stress disorder and prolonged grief in refugees exposed to trauma and loss.	While a large proportion of conflict-affected populations have been dually exposed to trauma and loss, there is inadequate research identifying differential symptom profiles related to bereavement and trauma exposure in these groups. The objective of this study were to (1) determine whether there are distinct classes of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and prolonged grief disorder (PGD) symptoms in bereaved trauma survivors exposed to conflict and persecution, and (2) examine whether particular types of refugee experiences and stressors differentially predict symptom profiles.
Predictors of post-traumatic psychological growth in the late years after lung transplantation.	Although lung transplantation improves quality of life, most psychosocial research focuses on adverse psychological and social functioning outcomes. Positive effects, particularly in the late-term years as physical morbidities increase, have received little attention. We provide the first data on a psychological benefit - post-traumatic growth (PTG) - and we focused on long-term (>5yr) survivors.
Two perspectives on the needs of individuals bereaved by suicide.	To qualitatively explore the needs of suicidally bereaved individuals, researchers interviewed 11 suicide bereaved individuals and 4 mental health workers. Common themes of bereaved persons included the suicide grief experience, coping, interpersonal domain, struggle with meaning, self-reflection, and moving forward. Mental health workers emphasized the nature of the helping relationship, the need to emotionally process the grief, the centrality of meaning making, importance of support groups, and the role of individual counseling. These 2 perspectives informed "best practices" for postvention (e.g., understanding the need for meaning-making while recognizing when to move on). 
Grieving online: newcomers' constructions of grief in an online support group.	Research into peer conversations in online grief support groups remains scarce. The authors used discourse analysis to examine 107 initial posts to one such group to examine how newcomers constructed their initial posts to display their eligibility for membership. The authors identified three discursive features: formulating unusual stories of loss, describing uncontrollable emotional and physical states, and engaging in "troubles telling." These discursive patterns illustrate how grief is constructed in ways that may simultaneously conform to and resist norms around grief that exist offline. Implications for practitioners include the need to support individuals through validation of their "nonnormal" grief. 
Let me hear of your mercy in the mourning: forgiveness, grief, and continuing bonds.	Clarity about the utility of continuing bonds (CB) continues to be evasive in the research. In 2 different correlational studies, the authors explored the relationship between CB and 2 other variables: 1 representing mental health (forgiveness of the deceased) and the other representing psychological distress (prolonged grief). Although researchers have addressed the latter relationship in the literature, assessing the relationship between CB and forgiveness has not been undertaken. Results suggest that forgiveness in general, and affective aspects of forgiveness in particular, predict psychological forms of CB. Results related to grief depended on how CB was assessed. These findings provide evidence of the relative health of certain types of relationship with deceased persons and also suggest that forgiveness interventions may be a way of promoting such healthy bonds. 
Prolonged grief disorder and depression in a German community sample.	The aims of this study were to examine rates and risk factors for prolonged grief and to investigate the association between prolonged grief and depression. The authors interviewed a heterogeneous bereaved sample of 61 Germans, 6 of whom had prolonged grief and depression, respectively. The 2 syndromes were strongly linked to one another. Risk factors for prolonged grief were being a woman and having high levels of religious beliefs and low levels of satisfaction with one's religious beliefs, emotional closeness to the deceased, and unanticipated loss. Symptoms of prolonged grief may endure years post-loss and often overlap with depression. 
Lived experiences of women who developed uterine rupture following severe obstructed labor in Mulago hospital, Uganda.	Maternal mortality is a major public health challenge in Uganda. Whereas uterine rupture remains a major cause of maternal morbidity and mortality, there is limited research into what happens to women who survive such severe obstetric complications. Understanding their experiences might delineate strategies to support survivors.
Identifying and treating adult survivors of sexual assault.	About 18% of women and 3% of men report being a victim of sexual assault, but fewer than one-third of victims seek immediate medical attention or psychological counseling. Over time, victims may experience physical and emotional reactions and turn to primary care providers, who should be prepared to identify survivors of sexual assault and provide thoughtful referrals for long-term follow-up. 
Leg extension power is a pre-disaster modifiable risk factor for post-traumatic stress disorder among survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake: a retrospective cohort study.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common psychological problem following natural disasters. Although pre-disaster risk factors are important for early detection and proactive support, the examination of such has been limited to sociodemographic factors, which were largely unaffected by the disasters. We examined the association between pre-disaster physical functioning and lifestyle and PTSD symptoms five months after the earthquake in the Great East Japan Earthquake survivors who were participating in a pre-existing cohort study.
MAMBRA's impact on IPV symptoms of incarcerated and formerly incarcerated women.	This repeated measures, descriptive study investigated the effect of Music and Account-Making for Behavioral-Related Adaptation (MAMBRA), a group psychoeducation music intervention, on symptoms reported by 41 incarcerated and community women survivors of intimate partner violence (IPV). Psychosocial measurements included: the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale; Speilberger State Anxiety Inventory; Rosenberg's Self Esteem Scale; the UCLA Loneliness Scale, version 3; and the Index of Spouse Abuse. MAMBRA was administered over four sessions for five groups of women. Through descriptive and univariate statistics, psychosocial measures positively changed across the MAMBRA sessions. These findings suggest MAMBRA impacted IPV symptoms and may be an efficacious intervention. Future longitudinal studies with diverse samples are warranted. 
The personification of cancer.	Facilitating a session recently at the C4YW conference in Orlando, FL, moved me in ways that I am still processing. This conference is for women who were diagnosed with breast cancer prior to the age of 45, and these survivors are encouraged to return to the conference for education, support, and fellowship for as long as they want. They can bring family members or friends with them and the meeting rooms and hallways are filled with laughter and tears. 
Supportive care needs after gynecologic cancer: where does sexual health fit in?	Descriptive, cross-sectional study.
A meta-analysis of the relationship among impaired taste and treatment, treatment type, and tumor site in head and neck cancer treatment survivors.	To understand how taste impairment caused by head and neck cancer treatment changes over time or varies with treatment site or type.
Psychological effects of bone marrow transplantation on children and adolescents: preliminary report of a longitudinal study.	The number of pediatric bone marrow transplantation (BMT) survivors is growing rapidly, yet little is known about the long-term neuropsychologic and psychosocial sequelae of this procedure. Using a prospective, longitudinal design, 64 pediatric patients undergoing BMT were evaluated with standardized measures of global intelligence, academic achievement and selected tests of neuropsychologic function. In addition, adjustment was assessed with parent and patient report measures of social competence, behavior problems and self-esteem. Patients were evaluated prior to admission for BMT, and again in the period 6-12 months after BMT. Longitudinal findings are reported on an initial cohort of 25 survivors. Cognitive and neuropsychologic function remained stable during the study period. The few significant changes from baseline which were observed were in the direction of improvement, and may be attributed to practice effects. In contrast, declines were observed in patient social competence, self-esteem and general emotional well-being. BMT conditioning regimens appear not to be associated with significant neuropsychologic impairment in the first year after transplant. However, a longer period of follow-up is necessary before neuropsychologic late-effects can be ruled out. The first year after BMT is characterized by significant psychosocial difficulties for survivors. Adjustment issues may provide a more salient focus of study during this time frame.
Physical and psychosocial status of adults one-year after bone marrow transplantation: a prospective study.	Assessment of the impact of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) on long-term physical and psychosocial functioning has been hampered by a paucity of prospective research. While evidence suggests that many adult BMT recipients experience deficits in physical and psychosocial functioning > or = 1 year following BMT, whether these deficits existed prior to BMT is not known. Observed post-BMT deficits could be attributable to conventional treatments received prior to BMT and thus could have antedated BMT. The physical and psychosocial status of 28 adult BMT recipients was assessed prior to BMT and 12-16 months after BMT. Analysis of group means indicated few significant differences between pre- and post-BMT assessments. However, inspection of residual change scores suggested that physical and psychosocial status improved following BMT for some individuals, while that of others declined. Analysis of residual change scores indicated that males and older patients at time of BMT reported the largest declines in physical and psychosocial status. Longer follow-up is necessary to determine whether decrements observed 12-16 months after BMT reflect a slower process of post-BMT recovery or whether they constitute fairly permanent deficits.
Symptoms of female survivors of child sexual abuse.	Women who suffered sexual abuse as children often experience a variety of physical and psychosocial symptoms as adults. Identifying this pattern of symptoms might assist health professionals in recognizing and treating nonreporting survivors of child sexual abuse. In this study, the Adult Survivors of Incest (ASI) Questionnaire (Brown & Garrison, 1990) was used to determine the symptoms and contributing factors for 22 adult survivors of child sexual abuse. Six physical symptoms were experienced by 50% of the subjects, and over 75% of the subjects experienced 11 psychosocial symptoms. The number of physical symptoms correlated significantly with other victimizations (r = .59) and number of psychosocial symptoms (r = .56). The findings suggest that the ASI Questionnaire was effective in identifying patterns of symptoms and contributing factors of adult survivors of child abuse. Additional study is needed to determine the usefulness of this questionnaire in identifying nonreporting survivors in clinical situations.
Beyond cancer: changes, problems and needs expressed by adult lymphoma survivors attending an out-patients clinic.	Little is known about the impact of the cancer experience on people following the completion of treatment. Work has begun to outline such experiences primarily in the United States. The purpose of this study was to explore the 'survival' experience within a British context of care, outlining the changes, problems and needs expressed by adult cancer survivors. A convenience sample of 10 adult lymphoma patients from one large teaching hospital was interviewed a minimum of 18 months following the completion of successful treatment. Data were collected by means of tape-recorded semi-structured interviews, using a schedule based on the Cancer Survivorship Questionnaire (Loescher et al., 1990). Data were analysed using content analysis and this indicated that, whilst survival itself may be reward enough for some, others seek to improve or adjust their current status, physically, psychologically or socially. It was concluded that the British cancer survivors were affected in many ways, some having to adjust more than others to the consequences of cure. The preliminary findings pointed towards a notion of 'subtle survivorship' in the British survivors. While they reported many changes in their lives after treatment, many were typically accepting of these and successfully adjusted to their new lives.
Psycho-oncology and breast cancer: a paradigm for research and intervention.	The recent award to the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of a National Cancer Institute funded Specialized Program of Research Excellence (or SPORE) grant in Breast Cancer has created a unique opportunity to develop and apply a comprehensive psycho-oncology research model that can serve as a paradigm for studies in this area across disease sites. In the following article, the rationale for and design of the psycho-oncology research program at Georgetown is presented. Areas of research are outlined, specific topics of concern within these are delineated and progress towards addressing these is briefly reviewed.
The experience of childbirth for survivors of incest.	The purpose of this research was to discover what experiences, including feelings, women who are survivors of incest have during childbirth. The recognition that the childbirth experience may trigger memories of incest that will then alter the course of childbirth was the framework for the study. This exploratory research was undertaken using a phenomenological approach. The six participants were obtained through networking and issues surrounding confidentiality and consent were of a high priority. The data consists of transcripts of taped, one to two hour, in-depth interviews. During interviews each woman recalled her experiences and feelings during and surrounding childbirth. Qualitative analysis was undertaken, the findings indicating that memories of previous abuse may be provoked by childbirth but that it is a very individualised response. The effect of these memories on the childbirth experience is also variable but does occur. Privacy, control and touch are important aspects of these women's childbirth experiences. The results and interpretation of findings presented in this report centre around the labour and delivery experiences of the women. The variety of women's needs demonstrated in this project emphasise the importance of individualised care by midwives and doctors involved in the care of childbearing women.
Preservation of the umbilical cord at the primary fascial closure in infants with gastroschisis.	Recently, the survival of patients with gastroschisis has been dramatically improved and it has reached more than 90%. Over the last 10 years, 20 of 21 cases (95%) survived in our hospital. We have been using the primary fascial closure of the abdominal wall as a standard operative procedure. The umbilical cord was usually excised at the operation in order to secure the suture line and prevent wound infection. The survivors sometimes complained of the absence of the umbilicus. However, it was somewhat difficult to create a new umbilicus later by use of the surrounding skin. In the last five cases, we tried to carry out the primary fascial closure with preservation of the umbilical cord. All patients could obtain good cosmetic results with near-normal appearance. Omphalitis or cellulitis was never observed, but a small umbilical hernia occurred in one case.
Breastfeeding and the sexual abuse survivor.	In this paper, the possible effects of child sexual abuse on a mother's breastfeeding experience are described. The long-term effects of sexual abuse are divided into seven domains that may impact breastfeeding behavior: posttraumatic stress disorder, cognitive distortions, emotional distress, impaired sense of self, avoidance, interpersonal difficulties, and health problems. In each section, the potential impact of past sexual abuse on current breastfeeding behavior and the mother-infant relationship is described. Finally, specific suggestions and strategies for lactation consultants are offered.
Phenomenological study of the North Dakota flood experience and its impact on survivors' health.	Grand Forks, North Dakota, was devastated by an unprecedented flood, forcing the evacuation of an entire community of 50,000 residents in 72 hours. A qualitative descriptive study with use of phenomenological methods was conducted 6 months after the flooding. Its purpose was to gain a deeper understanding of the meaning of a traumatic flood experience and its influence on the health of the residents of Grand Forks. Data were generated through interviews, observations, and media reports. The sample included 3 female and 3 male residents of the city of Grand Forks, North Dakota, who ranged in age from 26 to 77 years. Five essential themes were identified: (1) shock and disbelief, (2) uncertainty, (3) grief and loss, (4) emotional exhaustion, and (5) hope and meaning. The participants' descriptions of emotional exhaustion were similar to those found with survivors of posttraumatic stress disorder. Older adults appeared to be especially vulnerable. Nurses who are aware of the effects of natural disasters, particularly flooding, may be better able to identify vulnerable populations and understand the health needs of other survivors.
Long-term outcomes and life satisfaction of adults who had pediatric spinal cord injuries.	To determine long-term outcomes and life satisfaction of adults who sustained pediatric spinal cord injury (SCI).
Trauma and identity through two generations of the Holocaust.	In summary, these four second generation women were/are in search of an equilibrium which includes integrating approach-avoidance feelings about their upbringing. They have struggled in various ways, through their own personal styles, with issues of enmeshment with their parents' ordeals, and this has helped to shape their identities. The approach-avoidance dilemma around the suffering of their parents involves finding a way to separate from, yet to include in the meaning of their lives, the suffering of their parents. In these women, empathy preserves the "good" aspect of the parent and in the end allows for separateness to be achieved. An evolution of their approach to the Holocaust occurs throughout their lives and is enhanced by their having children. Creativity and knowledge play an important role in the expression of tormented feelings in both second and third generations. The issues grappled with by the second generation reverberate in their children. This is a group of resolute, serious people who believe in the preciousness of life. They are also thoughtful, empathic youngsters, aware of social and political inequities. These third-generation members feel somewhat burdened by the legacy of the Holocaust, inasmuch as they feel obligated to stand up for Jewish identity and be successful in their own lives. Placing the suffering in a larger group context helps the second generation confront the suffering of their parents. This diminishes individual liability so that the suffering does not have to be taken on personally. The cause goes beyond the self and the family. When, as in Sylvia's case, this outlook is not achieved, the struggle against family enmeshment continues. Seeing the suffering in a group context creates a different set of responsibilities, that of allegiance and closeness to the group. It promotes a need to find meaning in the suffering, a need to cope with the sense of identification with group loss. This urge for empathy is accompanied by its opposite, a wish to dissociate, and the need consequently to negotiate boundaries. The struggle for integration of various feelings becomes a part of their identity in both generations. This paper points to the possibility that, as the Holocaust becomes part of a story, a myth, it becomes a guide (albeit perhaps of a demanding one) by which to live life rather than simply a recall of death. The work of memory has been completed, at times embellished. It also includes, however, a continuous wake up call to vulnerability, a sense of burden, a "chronic" sense of the seriousness and preciousness of life. This paper therefore reflects the fact that suffering can be channeled into identity formation, integrated into an articulation of the meaning of life and a philosophy of life. As the third generation's identity becomes intimately intertwined with its origins, a feeling of continuity is developed which provides a sense of affirmation of the group and of the self. It does, however, also include an awareness of the suffering of that group and in the world at large.
Trauma and resilience during war: a look at the children and humanitarian aid workers of Bosnia.	In summary, resilience in both the children and the workers had key aspects which were definable and similar. Both groups required support and connectedness to others, as well as a need to distance themselves from the impact of the suffering. Both groups required the use of similar mechanisms, such as cognitive restructuring, relaxation, and thought-stopping. The activities of "healthy" individuals in both populations were parallel. In both populations, some actions occurred spontaneously and could be bolstered through circumscribed interventions. In other cases, actions and activities to promote resilience of both populations needed to be created. These actions would affect not only the stress experienced by the workers in the field, improving their quality of life and longevity of service, and reducing costs for the agency involved, but also the children who were being serviced by those workers. Truly working on these strategies seemed to make the difference between short-term coping and longer-term resilience. Those individuals who were not able to incorporate the resilience-promoting factors may have been able to cope in the short term with the immediate threat, but then had difficulties following the cessation of the armed conflict. Over the course of my subsequent visits to Bosnia I found a higher rate of alcoholism and suicide among teenagers than anticipated. They had apparently survived the most imminent threat and then succumbed to the long-term stress. Some of these problems were due to demobilization from the army of those teenagers who had been in the military. They were now left with no defined role after having had an important one, which had given them considerable power. The demobilization of their fathers caused problems as well. Friction between the parents arose as the father took authority back from the mother who had been in charge of the family in the father's absence. I also found considerable turnover among the humanitarian aid workers. Those who had been able to stay on the job and be effective in the long run were those who had truly internalized resilience strategies.
