Glycoprotein structural genomics: solving the glycosylation problem.	Glycoproteins present special problems for structural genomic analysis because they often require glycosylation in order to fold correctly, whereas their chemical and conformational heterogeneity generally inhibits crystallization. We show that the "glycosylation problem" can be solved by expressing glycoproteins transiently in mammalian cells in the presence of the N-glycosylation processing inhibitors, kifunensine or swainsonine. This allows the correct folding of the glycoproteins, but leaves them sensitive to enzymes, such as endoglycosidase H, that reduce the N-glycans to single residues, enhancing crystallization. Since the scalability of transient mammalian expression is now comparable to that of bacterial systems, this approach should relieve one of the major bottlenecks in structural genomic analysis.
Alpha-mannosidase activity in goats fed with Sida carpinifolia.	Human alpha-mannosidosis results from alpha-mannosidase deficiency and progressive accumulation of mannose-rich oligosaccharides in lysosomes. Two days before Saanen goats were fed with Sida carpinifolia, alpha-mannosidase activity in leukocytes was 128+/-28 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein (first trial) and 104+/-6 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein (second trial). At day 5, after the introduction of S. carpinifolia diet, the alpha-mannosidase activity in leukocytes was significantly increased, both in the first (288+/-13 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein) and in the second trial (303+/-45 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein), and it returned to normal levels 2 days after the withdrawal of the plant from the diet (114+/-7 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein in first trial, and 108+/-25 nmoles4-MU/h/mgprotein in the second one). Plasma alpha-mannosidase activity decreased significantly 4 days after animal exposure to the S. carpinifolia diet (769+/-167 nmoles4-MU/h/ml) and returned to normal values 10 days after the withdrawal of the plant from the diet (1289+/-163 nmoles4-MU/h/ml). Thin-layer chromatography showed an abnormal excretion of oligosaccharides in urine as of day 2 after diet exposure, which persisted until one day after the withdrawal of the plant. Animals presented neurological clinical signs beginning at day 37 (in the first trial) and at day 25 (in the second trial) after being fed with the plant. The results obtained herein suggest that oligosaccharides observed in urine are a result of a decrease in alpha-mannosidase activity in plasma. S. carpinifolia seems to have other compounds that act on alpha-mannosidase enzyme in leukocytes in a competitive manner with swainsonine. The increase in alpha-mannosidase enzyme in leukocytes could be attributed to one of these compounds present in S. carpinifolia.
A long-wavelength fluorescent substrate for continuous fluorometric determination of alpha-mannosidase activity: resorufin alpha-D-mannopyranoside.	A simple and reliable continuous assay for measurement of alpha-mannosidase activity is described and demonstrated for analysis with two recombinant human enzymes using the new substrate resorufin alpha-d-mannopyranoside (Res-Man). The product of enzyme reaction, resorufin, exhibits fluorescence emission at 585 nm with excitation at 571 nm and has a pK(a) of 5.8, allowing continuous measurement of fluorescence turnover at or near physiological pH values for human lysosomal and Drosophila Golgi alpha-mannosidases. The assay performed using recombinant Drosophila Golgi alpha-mannosidase (dGMII) has been shown to give the kinetic parameters K(m) of 200 microM and V(max) of 11 nmol/min per nmol dGMII. Methods for performing the assay using several concentrations of the known alpha-mannosidase inhibitor swainsonine are also presented, demonstrating a potential for use of the assay as a simple method for high-throughput screening of inhibitors potentially useful in cancer treatment.
