State anxiety dependent on perspiration during mental stress and deep inspiration.	In this study, we focused on two types of perspiration, one triggered by anticipatory anxiety and the other by voluntary deep inspiration. We have previously found that the anticipation of anxiety causes increases of respiratory frequency, and that these increases are related to an activation of the temporal pole and amygdala in humans. Our interest is in the difference between the two natures of perspiration, both of which are closely related to respiratory responses. The level of sweating responses did not differ between deep and active inspiration or between three trials. This means that there was no habituation with repetitive trials for voluntary breathing. On the other hand, sweating responses during anticipation of anxiety showed habituation with repetitive trials. Habituation and nonhabituation differences with respect to these two characteristics of perspiration could be the result of differences in the related central networks. The former might be involved cortical structures associated with conscious changes of respiration. The latter was induced unconsciously, and this unconscious response is similar to the respiratory response during anticipatory anxiety, which may be related to the activation of the limbic system. Further, there was a positive correlation found between the amount of perspiration response and the state anxiety scores in deep inspiration, and also in trial 1 of the anticipatory anxiety experiment. Both types of responses were related to the individual state anxiety scores, and this may contribute to the defense mechanism with regard to adjustments to changes in the outer environment and situations.
Management of palmoplantar pustulosis: do we need to change?	Palmoplantar pustulosis (PPP) is difficult to treat. There is little hard evidence for the efficacy of any treatment and no published guidelines for its management. A number of exacerbating factors are well documented and there is some evidence for the importance of others. Smoking is the most recognized environmental trigger and recent research has concentrated on the role of eccrine sweat glands in this regard. Other factors, including tonsillar streptococcal infection and gluten sensitivity, may be important in selected cases. The aim of this review is to challenge dermatologists to consider alternative management strategies for PPP and design clinical trials that will enable the development of useful therapeutic guidelines.
Invited review: Are adaptations present to support dairy cattle productivity in warm climates?	Environmental heat stress, present during warm seasons and warm episodes, severely impairs dairy cattle performance, particularly in warmer climates. It is widely viewed that warm climate breeds (Zebu and Sanga cattle) are adapted to the climate in which they evolved. Such adaptations might be exploited for increasing cattle productivity in warm climates and decrease the effect of warm periods in cooler climates. The literature was reviewed for presence of such adaptations. Evidence is clear for resistance to ticks and tick-transmitted diseases in Zebu and Sanga breeds as well as for a possible development of resistance to ticks in additional breeds. Development of resistance to ticks demands time; hence, it needs to be balanced with potential use of insecticides or vaccination. The presumption of higher sweating rates in Zebu-derived breeds, based upon morphological differences in sweat glands between breeds, has not been substantiated. Relatively few studies have examined hair coat characteristics and their responses to seasonal heat, particularly in temperate climate breeds. Recently, a gene for slick hair coat has been observed that improved heat tolerance when introduced into temperate climate breeds. No solid evidence exists that hair coat in these lines is lighter than in well-fed warm climate-adapted Holsteins. Warm climate breeds and their F1 crosses share as dominant characteristics lower maintenance requirements and milk yields, and limited response to improved feeding and management. These characteristics are not adaptations to a feed-limited environment but are constitutive and useful in serving survival when feed is scarce and seasonal and high temperatures prevail. The negative relationship between milk yield and fertility present in temperate climates breeds also prevails in Zebu cattle. Fertility impairment by warm conditions might be counteracted in advanced farming systems by extra corporeal early embryo culture. In general, adaptations found in warm climate cattle breeds did not increase heat dissipation capacity, but rather diminished climate-induced strain by decreasing milk production. The negative relationship between reproductive efficiency and milk yield, although relatively low, also appears in Zebu cattle. This association, coupled with limited feed intake, acting over millennia, probably created the selection pressure for a low milk production in these breeds.
The effects of caffeine ingestion before passive heat loading on serum leptin levels in humans.	We assessed the effects of ingesting caffeine before passive heat loading (PHL) on serum leptin and sweating response, which are both physiological responses associated with energy expenditure. The subjects were nine male university students (age, 24.1 ± 3.5 years; height, 173.4 ± 7.6 cm; weight, 69.2 ± 5.7 kg; maximal oxygen consumption, 48.6 ± 4.7 ml [Symbol: see text] kg⁻¹ [Symbol: see text] min⁻¹). This study used a within-subject, random, crossover design. Tests were performed twice at the same time (2-5 p.m.) at a 1-week interval following 3 mg[Symbol: see text]kg(-1) caffeine ingestion (Caff-I) or not (No-Caff). PHL included a half bath in hot water (42 ± 0.5 °C for 30 min) in a thermoneutral climate chamber (25 ± 0.5 °C, 60 ± 3 % relative humidity, <1 m/s air velocity). After PHL, blood levels of leptin and free fatty acids were significantly higher in the Caff-I compared to those in the No-Caff after PHL (P < 0.01). Waist circumference and whole-body sweat loss volume were significantly higher in the Caff-I compared to those in the No-Caff (P < 0.001). Mean active sweat gland density was significantly higher in the Caff-I compared to those in the No-Caff at 10 min during PHL (P < 0.001). The results suggest that ingesting caffeine before PHL is more energy efficient than that of a single PHL.
Effect of age on heat-activated sweat gland density and flow during exercise in dry heat.	Physiological responses of eight postmenopausal older women (age 52-62 yr) and eight younger women (age 20-30 yr) were compared during moderate intensity exercise in a hot dry environment (48 degrees C dry bulb, 25 degrees C wet bulb). The age groups were matched on the basis of maximal O2 consumption (VO2max), body surface area, and body fatness. After heat acclimation the women walked at 40% VO2max for up to 2 h in the hot dry environment while heart rate (HR), rectal temperature (Tre), mean skin temperature (Tsk), whole-body sweating rate (Msw), and local sweating rates (msw; forearm, chest, and scapula) were measured. Additionally, the density of heat-activated sweat glands (HASG) was determined and average sweat gland flow (SGF) was calculated for the scapular area. Although no differences between age groups were found in HR response (when analyzed as percent of maximal HR) or Tsk, the older women had a significantly higher Tre throughout the heat-exercise session. The greater heat storage of the older women may be explained by their significantly lower Msw and msw. There were no differences between the younger and older women in the density of HASG after 30 min; therefore, the lower msw reflects a diminished output per HASG rather than a decrease in the number of sweat glands recruited. The diminished thermoregulatory ability of the older women, unrelated to differences in VO2max, appears to reflect either 1) a diminished response of the sweat glands to central and/or peripheral stimuli, or 2) an age-related structural alteration in the eccrine glands or surrounding skin cells.
Electrophysiological and dye-coupling studies on secretory, myoepithelial and duct cells in human eccrine sweat glands.	1. Electrophysiological properties and dye-coupling status of secretory, myoepithelial and coiled duct cells in isolated human eccrine sweat glands have been assessed by single-micro-electrode studies and intracellular micro-iontophoresis of the fluorescent naphthalimide dye Lucifer Yellow CH (molecular weight 457). Treated glands were embedded in LKB HistoResin and examined by transmission fluorescence microscopy, first as wholemounts and then as 5 microns serial sections. Sections positive for Lucifer Yellow were photographed and then stained with Toluidine Blue for observation by conventional microscopy to confirm the site of penetration. 2. Out of forty-five successful micro-iontophoreses, three were confirmed in secretory cells, twelve in myoepithelial cells and thirty in cells of the coiled duct wall. The latter were identified as the most penetrable in the coiled part of the isolated human eccrine sweat gland. 3. Of the three secretory cells labelled (resting potentials -40, -52 and -63 mV), all demonstrated dye coupling to neighbouring secretory cells although in one case this was found to be selective. Not every secretory cell was involved in coupling. No fluorescent label spread to the myoepithelial cells which form a network on the basal surface of the secretory tubule. 4. When myoepithelial cells were penetrated, they demonstrated dye coupling to neighbouring myoepithelial cells but not to secretory cells with which they also made contact. Basal resting potentials of -35 to -65 mV were recorded (mean = -52 mV, S.E. of mean = +/- 2.4 mV, n = 12) and, in eight out of the twelve cells penetrated and labelled, spontaneous depolarizing transients were also observed whose amplitude but not frequency increased with increasing membrane polarization. Administration of acetylcholine to produce a final concentration of 10(-6) to 10(-7) M produced either depolarization or micro-electrode dislodgement. 5. Of the thirty cells labelled in the coiled duct, twenty-six showed obvious dye spread to neighbouring cells in both layers of the wall. There was no relation between dye-coupling status and basal resting potential which lay in the range -40 to -82 mV (mean = -60 mV, S.E. of mean = +/- 2.4 mV, n = 30). Repeated doses of acetylcholine produced either no response from cells in this range or depolarization in cells with resting potentials more negative than -70 mV and hyperpolarization in cells with resting potentials more positive than -70 mV. In addition, there was a biphasic response, depolarization followed by hyperpolarization in a cell of resting potential -67 mV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Modifications of glass microelectrodes: a self-filling and a semifloating glass microelectrode.	A simple and inexpensive method for constructing a double capillary was developed for preparing a self-filling glass microelectrode. The modified method uses a thin capillary instead of a bundle of glass fibers and fuses it to the outer capillary wall with flame before pulling the latter with a puller. The validity of the new electrode was proven by measuring the proximal cell PD of the rat kidney slices (mean of the stable cell PDs lasting longer than 30 min,--69 mV). A semifloating electrode was modified from the original floating electrode to be applicable to the in vivo kidney preparation whose pulsatile and respiratory movements had hindered yielding a stable cell PD. This electrode is constructed simply by replacing the shaft of the Ling-Gerard glass microelectrode with a length of flexible silcone-rubber tubing. The cell PD recorded by this electrode is found to be more stable and can withstand minor tissue distortion in mammalian kidney cells in vivo and also in such a contractile tissue as the secretory coil of the eccrine sweat gland.
Pharmacology and function of the myoepithelial cell in the eccrine sweat gland.	Both acetylcholine and a Ca-ionophore, A23187, are comparatively strong stimulants of eccrine sweat secretion in vitro. Nevertheless, the contraction of the secretory coil was seen only after stimulation with acetylcholine but not with alpha or beta adrenergic drugs or with A23187. It was thus inferred that the myoepithelial contraction may not be playing an indispensable role in the overall process of eccrine sweat secretion.
Skin potential level: age and epidermal hydration effects.	Age differences in skin potential level (SPL) of young adult and aged men were investigated using basal skin potential level (BSPL) procedures at three levels of epidermal hydration. A glycol medium was used at a site of least hydration. A distilled water and agar solution was the medium at two other more hydrated sites which also received either 0 min or 15 min pretreatment in distilled water. A 0.5% KCl electrolyte concentration was used at all sites. Significant effects for age and hydration were dependent on the point in the recording session comparisons were made. The major findings were: (1) the old men had significantly lower SPLs than did the young men at the start of recording with the glycol electrolyte medium; there were no significant age differences at the start of recording with the agar mediums, or at BSPL with any hydration condition. (2) Hydration significantly affected SPL magnitude at the start of recording, but not at BSPL. SPL recorded with the glycol medium at certain points in the recording was significantly related to outdoor activity among the aged men. This effect was independent of differences in cardiovascular status, and cardiovascular status was not significantly correlated with glycol SPL. It is concluded that there is a reduced sweat gland potential in old age which can only be observed when recording conditions produce high epidermal resistance. This reduced sweat gland potential is related to low levels of outdoor activity.
Index for the assessment of heat tolerance.	Heat tolerance was assessed by magnitude of strain induced in the body as a whole by heat load. The strain was represented by a combination of relative water loss, relative rise in rectal temperature and relative salt loss, using those critical values of the three factors which cause heat stroke (40.6 degrees C), water depletion heat exhaustion (7% of body weight) and salt depletion heat exhaustion (0.75 g per kg of body weight). As this numerical heat tolerance index is defined as the degree of disturbance induced by heat exposure concerning thermal regulation, water and electrolyte metabolism, the magnitude of the index is inversely proportional to that of heat tolerance. Our studies showed that adaptive changes in heat tolerance of unacclimatized subjects during short-term heat acclimatization could be followed up by this heat tolerance index and that superior heat tolerance of residents in subtropical zone and athletes could by reasonably evaluated by the index. Thus, it might be said that this numerical heat tolerance index is a reliable index for the assessment of heat tolerance.
Generation and transit pathway of H+ is critical for inhibition of palmar sweating by iontophoresis in water.	Passing galvanic current across the skin (known as "tap water iontophoresis" or TWI) inhibits sweating; however, its mechanism of action is unclear. Using improved methods, we confirmed that anodal current has more of an inhibitory effect than cathodal current, water is superior to saline, and the inhibitory effect is a function of the amperage used. To address the importance of current flowing through the pores, a layer of silicone grease was placed on the skin to reduce the shunt pathway across the epidermis. With silicone, total skin conductance decreased 60% without the sweat pores being occluded, swelling of the stratum corneum and collapse of the poral lumen was prevented, and current-induced inhibition of sweating was enhanced, most likely because of an increase in current density in the pores. The pH of anodal water, but not of saline, dropped to 3, whereas that of cathodal water increased to 10 during passage of current through the skin. Acidified anodal water was superior to alkaline water. Sweat glands isolated from TWI-induced anhidrotic palmar skin responded to methacholine in vitro, but the sweat rate and pharmacological sensitivity were slightly lowered. Thus the strong acidity generated by hydrolysis of water in the anodal bath and the further accumulation of H+ in the sweat duct by anodal current may be responsible for TWI-induced inhibition of sweating due to an unknown lesion(s) in the duct or sweat pore. The secretory coil function may also be altered because of exposure to intense acidity during TWI. The importance of H+ movement into the sweat pore for inhibition of sweating could be further exploited to develop new strategies for the control of sweating.
Evaluation of congenital dysautonomia other than Riley-Day syndrome.	We report on four children, from different families, who suffer from a congenital autonomic disorder, presumably inherited. Three of them have a sensory neuropathy but do not fit any described hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy. All four were examined along with some of their immediate family members. We assessed the cardiovagal, sympathetic adrenergic and sympathetic cholinergic functions with a battery of non-invasive tests. Results demonstrated that sudomotor and cardiovascular orthostatic regulation exhibited the greatest abnormalities, pointing to a predominant impairment of sympathetic components, both cholinergic and adrenergic. The overall examination showed a heterogeneous group of congenital dysautonomia, exclusive of Riley-Day or other recognized hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies. We emphasize the importance of studying whole family groups to diagnose subclinical impairment and to provide correct genetic counselling.
Cytosolic pH regulates GCl through control of phosphorylation states of CFTR.	Our objective in this study was to determine the effect of changes in luminal and cytoplasmic pH on cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) Cl- conductance (GCl). We monitored CFTR GCl in the apical membranes of sweat ducts as reflected by Cl- diffusion potentials (VCl) and transepithelial conductance (GCl). We found that luminal pH (5.0-8.5) had little effect on the cAMP/ATP-activated CFTR GCl, showing that CFTR GCl is maintained over a broad range of extracellular pH in which it functions physiologically. However, we found that phosphorylation activation of CFTR GCl is sensitive to intracellular pH. That is, in the presence of cAMP and ATP [adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate)], CFTR could be phosphorylated at physiological pH (6.8) but not at low pH (approximately 5.5). On the other hand, basic pH prevented endogenous phosphatase(s) from dephosphorylating CFTR. After phosphorylation of CFTR with cAMP and ATP, CFTR GCl is normally deactivated within 1 min after cAMP is removed, even in the presence of 5 mM ATP. This deactivation was due to an increase in endogenous phosphatase activity relative to kinase activity, since it was reversed by the reapplication of ATP and cAMP. However, increasing cytoplasmic pH significantly delayed the deactivation of CFTR GCl in a dose-dependent manner, indicating inhibition of dephosphorylation. We conclude that CFTR GCl may be regulated via shifts in cytoplasmic pH that mediate reciprocal control of endogenous kinase and phosphatase activities. Luminal pH probably has little direct effect on these mechanisms. This regulation of CFTR may be important in shifting electrolyte transport in the duct from conductive to nonconductive modes.
