Postnatal expression and denervation induced up-regulation of aquaporin-5 protein in rat sweat gland.	The evolution of aquaporin-5 (AQP5) expression during postnatal development has not been defined in the sweat gland. Previous studies have suggested that AQP isoforms in several peripheral targets are regulated by a neural mechanism. We have examined, in rat sweat glands, the expression of AQP5 during postnatal development and the effects of denervation on AQP5 expression. Both AQP5 mRNA and protein begin to be expressed at postnatal day 10, before sweat-secretory responsiveness first appears; this expression coincides with the occurrence of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactivity. Early noradrenergic and later cholinergic interaction between sweat glands and their innervation are disrupted by neonatal chemical sympathectomy or postnatal severance of the sciatic nerve. Examination of such denervated developing rats has shown that secretory responsiveness fails to arise later in the adults, and AQP5 immunostaining increases in the denervated glands, whereas gland morphogenesis and the occurrence of AQP5 expression proceed normally. Immunobloting has revealed an increase of AQP5 abundance after the denervated mature glands lose their secretory ability. These findings suggest that AQP5 protein is necessary for sweat secretion, and that the expression of AQP5 in rat sweat glands is independent of sympathetic innervation. Our data also indicate that factor(s) regulating the normal morphological development of sweat gland might be responsible for controlling AQP5 expression.
Developmental expression of muscarinic cholinergic receptors and coupling to phospholipase C in rat sweat glands are independent of innervation.	During development, the innervation of rat sweat glands undergoes a striking change from noradrenergic to cholinergic function. The acquisition of secretory responsiveness by the glands is temporally correlated with the appearance of cholinergic properties. In addition, responsiveness fails to appear in the absence of innervation. To investigate the basis of the onset of functional transmission and secretory responsiveness and its possible relationship to innervation, we analyzed the development of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in sweat glands, examined their expression in the glands of adult rats sympathectomized at birth, and assayed the ability of muscarinic agonists to increase phosphoinositide (PI) turnover. Autoradiographic and in situ hybridization analysis revealed that muscarinic ligand binding sites were first detectable as glands begin to form on postnatal day 4 (P4). Between P4 and P14, receptor concentration increased in parallel with mRNA for the m3 receptor subtype. On P14, the concentration of ligand binding sites approached adult levels, although only a small proportion of glands at this age secrete in response to nerve stimulation or cholinergic agonists. When the pharmacological properties of muscarinic receptors in sweat glands of adult rats sympathectomized at birth were compared to those of normal glands, the concentration and affinity determined with [N-methyl-3H]-scopolamine and the Ki values determined with the subtype-selective muscarinic antagonists 4-DAMP, pirenzepine, and AF DX-116 were similar. In addition, the molecular subtype was unchanged as was the level of m3 message. Studies of PI turnover in response to muscarinic stimulation indicated that the receptors expressed in sweat glands isolated from sympathectomized and acutely denervated, as well as control, rats were functionally coupled to phospholipase C. The absence of sympathetic innervation therefore does not appear to influence either the development of muscarinic receptors or their coupling to PI turnover. Our results suggest that functional sympathetic cholinergic innervation plays a central role in the development and maintenance of secretory function at a step distal to signal transduction across the cell membrane.
Destruction by anti-NGF of autonomic, sudomotor neurones and subsequent hyperinnervation of the foot pad by sensory fibres.	Treatment of newborn rats with antiserum to nerve growth factor (NGF) for the first 6 postnatal days produced a loss of the sympathetic neurones that normally project to the sweat glands of the hind paws of the rat, indicating that cholinergic sympathetic neurones require NGF postnatally for their survival. Following this immunosympathectomy, there was an increase in the proportion of glands containing sensory fibres having substance-P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI). This sensory sprouting was not as extensive as that after sympathectomy using 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). During normal development, fibres showing SP-LI are associated with the glands, particularly during the first and second postnatal weeks. Prolongation of the antibody treatment until the third postnatal week reduced the sensory fibre ingrowth from the region of the glands, suggesting that the basis of this growth is the increased availability of NGF following sympathetic denervation. Retrograde cell labelling using the fluorescent dye, fast blue, indicated that the anti-NGF treatment did not significantly decrease the number of sensory neurones projecting to an individual foot pad. These results support the hypothesis that sympathetic and sensory neurones compete for NGF produced by target tissues.
