Successful adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for estrogen receptor-positive metastasizing sweat gland adenocarcinoma: need for a clinical trial?	We report on successful adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for a metastasizing sweat gland adenocarcinoma of the scalp in a 64-year-old woman. Before the antihormonal therapy, the patient had undergone repeated surgery for ipsilateral intraparotid, soft tissue, and lymph node metastases and had had disease-free intervals of less than 5 months. As the immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor tissue revealed a 100% nuclear reactivity to estrogen and progesterone receptors, we started empirical tamoxifen citrate therapy, which dramatically changed the course of the disease. The patient has been in complete remission for 3 years. This is the third report in the literature of substantial therapeutic benefit of antiestrogen therapy in metastasizing eccrine gland adenocarcinoma with positive hormone receptor immunohistochemistry. We suggest examining the hormone receptor expression in these neoplasms regularly. A prospective study should be commenced to assess the benefit of adjuvant antihormonal therapy in eccrine gland adenocarcinomas.
Metastatic apocrine adenocarcinoma of the penis: cytostatic therapy]	Metastatic carcinoma of the genital apocrine sweat glands is a rare clinical entity. A cytostatic treatment with MTX and bleomycin was performed empirically but did not show any satisfactory efficacy. The conversion of the chemotherapeutic regime to a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (sunitinib) showed a morphologically visible and clinically proven success in terms of a significant slowing down of the previous rapid progression of the disease.
Metastatic sweat gland carcinoma: response to 5-fluorouracil infusion.	A 78-year-old white male presented with metastatic sweat gland carcinoma involving regional lymph nodes, pleura, pericardium, and chest wall. A complete response of three months duration was achieved by using a 96-hour infusion of 5-fluorouracil. This is the first report of a complete response to systemic chemotherapy in metastatic sweat gland carcinoma.
