Sweet's syndrome as an initial presentation in systemic lupus erythematosus: a case report and review of the literature.	Malar or discoid rash is the most frequent specific cutaneous lesion for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Neutrophilic dermatosis as an initial presentation in SLE is unusual. We describe a 38-year old female patient who primarily suffered from erythematous tender plaques and fever. Examination of skin biopsy of the plaques showed dense neutrophilic infiltration in the dermis. Polyarthritis, heavy proteinuria, photosensitivity and positive antinuclear antibodies (ANA > 1:1280) concluded the diagnosis of SLE. The plaques disappeared completely after treatment with systemic corticosteroids. To our knowledge, this is the first reported SLE patient with Sweet's syndrome as the initial presentation in literature review.
Atypical neutrophilic dermatosis on the upper extremity affected by postmastectomy lymphedema: report of 2 cases.	We describe 2 female patients, both with a history of radical mastectomy for breast cancer, in whom several indurated erythematous plaques developed on the upper extremity affected by postmastectomy lymphedema. There were no general symptoms or leukocytosis. Histopathological examination showed a dense neutrophilic infiltrate without a feature of vasculitis in the dermis and subcutis. Dramatic therapeutic response was observed to treatment with potassium iodide. These findings resemble Sweet's syndrome, but such cases have not been previously reported. Possible pathogenic mechanisms for these unique cutaneous eruptions are discussed.
Original presentation of relapsing polychondritis: four cases]	The diagnosis of relapsing polychondritis is difficult as various manifestations may be encountered aside the characteristic episodes of recurrent chondritis.
Sweet syndrome in an infant with chronic granulomatous disease.	Sweet syndrome is characterized by painful, erythematous cutaneous lesions containing neutrophilic infiltrates. Although more commonly seen in adults, Sweet syndrome has also been recognized in several pediatric cases. Two previous cases of pediatric Sweet syndrome and 1 adult case have been described in chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients. We report the case of an infant with known CGD who was presented with methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus lymphadenitis and subsequently developed Sweet syndrome. CGD patients are prone to several disorders of inflammation. This case illustrates that Sweet syndrome may be part of the spectrum of inflammatory conditions to which CGD patients are predisposed.
Sweet's syndrome associated with systemic lupus erythematosus: a case report and review of the literature.	A 35-year-old Japanese female patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presented with fever, erythematous papules and nodules, and polyarthralgia. Skin biopsy of a nodule was compatible with Sweet's syndrome. The papules/nodules were well treated with an oral glucocorticoid. Thirty cases of Sweet's syndrome associated with lupus erythematosus (LE) have been reported in the published work. The mean age was 34.2 years. They showed a higher male ratio (male : female, 1:2) compared with patients with SLE (1:9) and Sweet's syndrome (1:3.7). Sweet's syndrome may occur as a manifestation of LE, and a moderate dose of an oral glucocorticoid will result in a good response. 
Azathioprine hypersensitivity syndrome: a case report.	We report here the case of a 51-year-old man presenting to the Emergency Department with a febrile cutaneous eruption with diffuse arthralgia 10 days after the onset of azathioprine therapy. The clinical examination did not reveal any inflammatory syndrome and the results of all bacteriological tests were negative. A skin biopsy was performed, which revealed a granulocytary pustula with superficial dermal oedema and a neutrophil infiltration without sign of vasculitis. A side effect of azathioprine was suspected, and treatment was discontinued. Fortunately, the patient recovered within a few days. Azathioprine hypersensitivity syndrome is a rare side effect of azathioprine. Hypersensitivity syndrome is an idiosyncratic, non-IgE-mediated reaction that appears to be unrelated to thiopurine methyltransferase levels. Diagnosis is mainly clinical and requires an exclusion of other processes. The only treatment option available is to stop azathioprine intake.
