Power laws and athletic performance.	In a previous study, we showed that the 1992 men's world record running times in the 100 m to 200 km could be represented accurately by the equation T = cDn, where T is the calculated record time for distance D, and c and n are positive constants. Here, we extend that to cover the years 1925-65 at 10-year intervals and 1970-95 in 5-year intervals for distances of 100 m to 10 km. Values of n for all years lie along a straight line with a small negative slope. A regression analysis yields an equation for values of n covering the period 1925-95. Values of c from 1925 to 1995 were fitted by a quadratic equation. These two equations define a surface in three-dimensional space (log(T), log(D), data) for all men's world record runs over the 70-year period for distances of 100 m to 10 km. We also demonstrated previously that event times, t, do not scatter randomly with respect to the values of T but form a consistent pattern about the straight lines in log(T) versus log(D) plots. In this study, we show that the pattern of (t-T)/t as a function of date has remained constant for the past 70 years.
Use of NSAIDs in triathletes: prevalence, level of awareness and reasons for use.	to determine the level of awareness regarding nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the prevalence and reasons for their consumption among athletes competing at the 2008 Brazil Ironman Triathlon (3.8 km swim, 180 km cycle and 42.2 km run).
The status of mineralized dental tissues in young competitive swimmers]	The aim of this study was to analyze the prevalence of caries and dental erosions in young competitive swimmers.
Water related otitis externa.	Water influences skin inflammation of the external auditory canal. The common term for this illness is "swimmer's ear". Contributory factors are length of exposure to water, type of water and water pollution. The aim of the study was to compare risks for contracting the disease between patients with different exposure to swimming pool water. A retrospective case-control analysis of patients at the ENT-clinic was performed. Swimmers and water polo players swam in a swimming pool chlorinated by an automatic swimming pool cleaning system. Water sport players had a higher risk for ear skin inflammation than football players. Senior football players compared with players younger than 13 were not at increased risk. Swimmers and water polo players older than 13 were at higher risk. Swimmers were at higher risk than football players as well as water polo players. There was no difference for the risk of otitis externa between swimmers and water polo players. Swimmers and water polo players compared with other patients of the ENT-clinic were at higher risk than football players. Frequent and longer exposure to water has been proved to increase the risk of external auditory canal inflammation.
Epidemiology of molluscum contagiosum in children: a systematic review.	Molluscum contagiosum (MC) is a common skin condition that primarily affects children, a common reason for presenting in primary care and is commonly seen in children presenting with other conditions in primary and secondary care. It is usually asymptomatic but can present with pain, pruritus, erythema and bacterial superinfection. Aim. To synthesize the current epidemiology of MC. Design and setting. A systematic literature review of bibliographical databases on the prevalence, incidence, risk factors, age distribution and association with other conditions for MC in children.
Gender and performance in athletics.	A comparison of women's and men's performance in swimming, running, and skating is made based on available world record data. The ratio of women's to men's record times is analyzed as a time series, and the asymptotic value of this ratio is discussed in the context of a model. "Rate of improvement curves" are defined over time and by event in a given sport and are compared across gender. The relationship of record time to event distance is estimated and also analyzed across event and gender boundaries. We make three conclusions: 1. The rate of improvement for women has been extraordinary and is larger for longer distance vents. 2. Law-like relations emerge for record times and event lengths. These relations have interesting physical interpretations when examined for various sports. 3. The male physiology is more suited to anaerobic strength events while, given increased access and participation, women can be expected to be more on a par with men in some long-distance aerobic events.
