Aggregation and species coexistence of ectoparasites of marine fishes.	Interspecific interaction may lead to species exclusion but there are several ways in which species can coexist. One way is by reducing the overall intensity of competition via aggregated utilisation of fragmented resources. Known as the 'aggregation model of coexistence', this system assumes saturation and an equilibrium number of species per community. In this study we tested the effects of interspecific aggregation on the level of intraspecific aggregation among ectoparasites of marine fishes (36 communities of gill and head ectoparasite species). If parasite species are distributed in a way that interspecific aggregation is reduced relative to intraspecific aggregation then species coexistence is facilitated. We found a positive relationship between parasite species richness and fish body size, controlling for host phylogeny. A positive relationship between infracommunity species richness and total parasite species richness was also found, providing no evidence for saturation. This result supports the view that infracommunities of parasites are not saturated by local parasite residents. The observed lack of saturation implies that we are far from a full exploitation of the fish resource by parasites. Ectoparasites were aggregated at both population and species levels. However, only half of the ectoparasite communities were dominated by negative interspecific aggregation. We found that infracommunity parasite species richness was positively correlated with the level of intraspecific aggregation versus interspecific aggregation. This means that intraspecific aggregation increases compared with interspecific aggregation when total parasite species richness increases, controlling fish size and phylogeny. This supports one assumption of the 'aggregation model of coexistence', which predicts that interspecific interactions are reduced relative to intraspecific interactions, facilitating species coexistence.
Refined analysis of early symbiotic steps of the Rhizobium-Medicago interaction in relationship with microtubular cytoskeleton rearrangements.	In situ immunolocalization of tubulin revealed that important rearrangements occur during all the early symbiotic steps in the Medicago/R. meliloti symbiotic interaction. Microtubular cytoskeleton (MtC) reorganizations were observed in inner tissues, first in the pericycle and then in the inner cortex where the nodule primordium forms. Subsequently, major MtC changes occurred in outer tissues, associated with root hair activation and curling, the formation of preinfection threads (PITs) and the initiation and the growth of an infection network. From the observed sequence of MtC changes, we propose a model which aims to better define, at the histological level, the timing of the early symbiotic stages. This model suggests the existence of two opposite gradients of cell differentiation controlling respectively the formation of division centers in the inner cortex and plant preparation for infection. It implies that (i) MtC rearrangements occur in pericycle and inner cortex earlier than in the root hair, (ii) the infection process proceeds prior to the formation of the nodule meristem, (iii) the initial primordium prefigures the future zone II of the mature nodule and (iv) the nodule meristem derives from the nodule primordium. Finally, our data also strongly suggest that in alfalfa PIT differentiation, a stage essential for successful infection, requires complementary signaling additional to Nod factors.
Assignment of fatty acid-beta-oxidizing syntrophic bacteria to Syntrophomonadaceae fam. nov. on the basis of 16S rRNA sequence analyses.	After enrichment from Chinese rural anaerobic digestor sludge, anaerobic, sporing and nonsporing, saturated fatty acid-beta-oxidizing syntrophic bacteria were isolated as cocultures with H2- and formate-utilizing Methanospirillum hungatei or Desulfovibrio sp. strain G-11.  The syntrophs degraded C4 to C8 saturated fatty acids, including isobutyrate and 2-methylbutyrate.  They were adapted to grow on crotonate and were isolated as pure cultures.  The crotonate-grown pure cultures alone did not grow on butyrate in either the presence or the absence of some common electron acceptors.  However, when they were reconstituted with M. hungatei, growth on butyrate again occurred.  In contrast, crotonate-grown Clostridium kluyveri and Clostridium sticklandii, as well as Clostridium sporogenes, failed to grow on butyrate when these organisms were cocultured with M. hungatei.  The crotonate-grown pure subcultures of the syntrophs described above were subjected to 16S rRNA sequence analysis.  Several previously documented fatty acid-beta-oxidizing syntrophs grown in pure cultures with crotonate were also subjected to comparative sequence analyses.  The sequence analyses revealed that the new sporing and nonsporing isolates and other syntrophs that we sequenced, which had either gram-negative or gram-positive cell wall ultrastructure, all belonged to the phylogenetically gram-positive phylum.  They were not closely related to any of the previously known subdivisions in the gram-positive phylum with which they were compared, but were closely related to each other, forming a new subdivision in the phylum.  We recommend that this group be designated Syntrophomonadaceae fam. nov.; a description is given.
Population density-dependent regulation of the Bradyrhizobium japonicum nodulation genes.	The nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum are essential for infection and establishment of a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. Here, we demonstrate that plant-produced isoflavones induce nodulation gene expression in a population density-dependent fashion. Nodulation gene induction is highest at a low population density and significantly reduced in more dense cultures. A quorum signal molecule in the conditioned medium of B. japonicum cultures mediates this repression. Repression in response to the quorum signal results from the induction of NolA which, in turn, induces NodD2 leading to inhibition of nod gene expression. Consistent with this, nolA-lacZ and nodD2-lacZ expression increased with increasing population density. Unlike the wild type, the ability to induce nodY-lacZ expression did not decline with population density in a NolA mutant. Normally, nod gene expression is repressed in planta (i.e. within nodules). However, expression of a nodY-GUS fusion was not repressed in a NolA mutant, suggesting that quorum-sensing control may mediate in planta repression of the nod genes. Addition of conditioned medium to cultures significantly reduced nod gene expression. Treatment of inoculant cultures with conditioned medium also reduced the ability of B. japonicum to nodulate soybean plants.
Compatible intracellular ion composition of the host improves carbon assimilation by zooxanthellae in mutualistic symbioses.	Cytosymbiotic algae within the host's plasma are exposed to completely different ionic conditions than microalgae living in the sea. The altered ionic gradients, in particular, could be the reason for higher in hospite carbon assimilation levels. To study the effect of varying extracellular ionic conditions on isolated zooxanthellae, their photosynthetic capacity in pure seawater was compared to that in a test medium in which the concentrations of the major inorganic ions, the pH and the osmolality were adjusted to the conditions measured in the host cytoplasm. In this test medium the ratio between oxygen evolution and carbon fixation was 1.2:1.0; in contrast, zooxanthellae in the hyperionic seawater medium showed a comparatively higher oxygen production (2.6:1.0). These results are attributed to a higher energy demand for ion regulation of the isolated algae in the hyperionic medium. Isolated cytosymbionts in seawater need more energy both for the readjustment to the original intracellular ion concentration within the host cell and also for the maintenance of a much steeper gradient during incubation under hyperionic conditions outside the host. The particular intracellular ion concentration of the host cells could have been a decisive evolutionary factor for the very successful establishment of the mutualistic symbioses between anthozoans and dinoflagellates more than 200 million years ago.
Trade-off between chemical and biotic antiherbivore defense in the South East Asian plant genus Macaranga.	The plant genus Macaranga is known for its manifold mutualistic associations with ants. The plants provide food for the ants and in turn get protection from herbivores. Depending on the strength of the plant-ant interaction, the plant's investment in ants and the biotic defense derived from them is more or less effective. We conducted a comparative study on tannin content in 12 Macaranga species that were selected based on their associations with ants (three nonmyrmecophytes and nine myrmecophytes, three of which start their ontogeny as nonmyrmecophytes). Different developmental stages were investigated in three Macaranga species. Extracts of every individual plant analyzed for tannins were also tested for their effects on larval growth employing larvae of the common cutworm (Spodoptera littoralis). The studied Macaranga species differed significantly in their tannin contents as well as in the effects of their leaf extracts on the growth of S. littoralis larvae. A correlation analysis shows a connection between tannin contents and larval growth. High tannin contents and, thus more effective chemical defense, were observed in nonmyrmecophytic Macaranga species associated only facultatively with ants as compared to obligate myrmecophytes. Our study supports the hypothesis of a trade-off between chemical and biotic defense in the genus Macaranga.
Chemical recognition of partner plant species by foundress ant queens in Macaranga-Crematogaster myrmecophytism.	The partnership in the Crematogaster-Macaranga ant-plant interaction is highly species-specific. Because a mutualistic relationship on a Macaranga plant starts with colonization by a foundress queen of a partner Crematogaster species, we hypothesized that the foundress queens select their partner plant species by chemical recognition. We tested this hypothesis with four sympatric Macaranga species and their Crematogaster plant-ant species. We demonstrated that foundress Crematogaster queens can recognize their partner Macaranga species by contact with the surface of the seedlings, that they can recognize compounds from the stem surface of seedlings of their partner plant species, and that the gas chromatographic profiles are characteristic of the plant species. These findings support the hypothesis that foundress queens of the Crematogaster plant-ant species select their partner Macaranga species by recognizing nonvolatile chemical characteristics of the stem surfaces of seedlings.
Sugar uptake and proton release by protoplasts from the infected zone of Vicia faba L. nodules: evidence against apoplastic sugar supply of infected cells.	Symbiotic dinitrogen fixation of legume nodules is fuelled by phloem-imported carbohydrates. These have to pass several cell layers to reach cells infected with Rhizobium bacteroids. It is unclear whether apoplastic steps are involved in carbohyd-rate translocation within the nodule. Protoplasts were isolated from the infected and uninfected cells of the central tissue of Vicia faba nodules using a recently developed protocol. These protoplasts were used to elucidate pathways for sugar transport in this tissue. Both types of protoplasts released protons into the medium. Acidification was inhibited by vanadate and erythrosin B. However, it was stimulated by fusicoccin only in uninfected cells. A symport of sugars with protons can therefore be energized in both cell types. Uptake of 14C-labelled sugars was determined using a phthalate centrifugation technique. Uninfected protoplasts accumulated glucose through high-affinity H+/glucose-symport that was not competitively inhibited by fructose or sucrose. Uninfected protoplasts also absorbed sucrose with biphasic kinetics. At 0.1, 1, and 10 mM sucrose, uptake was inhibited by CCCP. Fusicoccin did not stimulate the linear phase of sucrose uptake. Glucose inhibited sucrose uptake nearly completely. This was not related to sucrose cleavage in the medium because sucrose was absorbed at a much higher rate than glucose, and glucose concentration did not increase in sucrose-containing protoplast suspensions. By contrast with uninfected protoplasts, infected cells did not show transporter-mediated glucose or sucrose uptake. The findings underline a role of uninfected cells in sugar translocation. Infected cells are not apoplastically supplied with sugars and possibly depend on uninfected cells for carbon supply.
Localization and quantification of carbonic anhydrase activity in the symbiotic Scyphozoan Cassiopea xamachana.	The relationship between density and location of zooxanthellae and levels of carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity was examined in Cassiopea xamachana. In freshly collected symbiotic animals, high densities of zooxanthellae corresponded with high levels of CA activity in host bell and oral arm tissues. Bleaching resulted in a significant loss of zooxanthellae and CA activity. Recolonization resulted in full restoration of zooxanthellar densities but only partial restoration of CA activity. High levels of CA activity were also seen in structures with inherently higher zooxanthellar densities, such as oral arm tissues. Similarly, the oral epidermal layer of bell tissue had significantly higher zooxanthellar densities and levels of CA activity than did aboral bell tissues. Fluorescent labeling, using 5-dimethylaminonapthalene-1-sulfonamide (DNSA) also reflected this tight-knit relationship between the presence and density of zooxanthellae, as DNSA-CA fluorescence intensity was greatest in host oral epithelial cells directly overlying zooxanthellae. However, the presence and density of zooxanthellae did not always correspond with enzyme activity levels. A transect of bell tissue from the margin to the manubrium revealed a gradient of CA activity, with the highest values at the bell margin and the lowest at the manubrium, despite an even distribution of zooxanthellae. Thus, abiotic factors may also influence the distribution of CA and the levels of CA activity.
Non-pathogenic bacteria modulate colonic epithelial gene expression in germ-free mice.	We established a bacterial reconstitution model to investigate epithelial cell-luminal bacteria interaction. The aim of the study was to identify the known genes directly or indirectly modulated by non-pathologic bacterial flora in the colonic epithelia of germ-free mice.
Differential accumulation of heavy metals in the sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima as a function of symbiotic state.	The accumulation of metals by the North American Pacific Coast temperate sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, and its dinoflagellate-algal symbiont Symbiodinium muscatinei was examined following laboratory metal exposures. Both, naturally occurring symbiotic and symbiont-free (aposymbiotic) anemones were used in this study to investigate differences in metal uptake due to the symbiotic state of the animal. The effects of metal exposures on the anemone-algal symbiosis were determined using measures of algal cell density and mitotic index (MI). Anemones were exposed to either cadmium, copper, nickel or zinc chloride (0, 10, 100 microg l(-1) for Cd, Cu and Ni; 0, 100, 1000 microg l(-1) for Zn) for 42 days followed by a 42-day recovery period in ambient seawater. Anemones were analyzed for metal content using inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) at various time points during the study. Symbiotic anemones accumulated Cd, Ni and Zn to a greater extent than aposymbiotic anemones. A dramatically different pattern of Cu accumulation was observed, with aposymbiotic anemones accumulating higher levels than symbiotic anemones. Following recovery in ambient seawater, all tissue metal levels were reduced to near pre-exposure control levels in most cases. No changes in algal cell density or MI were observed in symbiotic anemone tentacle clips at any dose or time point in the Cd and Cu exposures. However, significant reductions in algal cell densities were observed in the Ni-exposed and some Zn-exposed animals, although levels returned to control values following recovery. There were no changes in mitotic index (MI) following Ni or Zn exposures. These results demonstrate that the extent of heavy metal accumulation depends upon cnidarian symbiotic state and the heavy metal in question.
cg12 expression is specifically linked to infection of root hairs and cortical cells during Casuarina glauca and Allocasuarina verticillata actinorhizal nodule development.	cg12 is an early actinorhizal nodulin gene from Casuarina glauca encoding a subtilisin-like serine protease. Using transgenic Casuarinaceae plants carrying cg12-gus and cg12-gfp fusions, we have studied the expression pattern conferred by the cg12 promoter region after inoculation with Frankia. cg12 was found to be expressed in root hairs and in root and nodule cortical cells containing Frankia infection threads. cg12 expression was also monitored after inoculation with ineffective Frankia strains, during mycorrhizae formation, and after diverse hormonal treatments. None of these treatments was able to induce its expression, therefore suggesting that cg12 expression is linked to plant cell infection by Frankia strains. Possible roles of cg12 in actinorhizal symbiosis are discussed.
Proteomic analysis on symbiotic differentiation of mitochondria in soybean nodules.	Symbiotic interactions between legume plants and rhizobia induce specific metabolisms and intracellular organelles in nodules. For surveying symbiotic differentiation of a key organelle, mitochondria, protein constituents of soybean nodule and root mitochondria were compared after two-dimensional (2-D) electrophoresis, and the proteins were characterized in combination with matrix-assisted desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and N-terminal amino acid sequencing. Of the proteins that were detected only in nodule mitochondria, phosphoserine aminotransferase, flavanone 3-hydroxylase, coproporphyrinogen III oxidase, one ribonucleoprotein and three unknown proteins were identified. Seven up-regulated, eight down-regulated and two strongly suppressed protein spots in nodule mitochondria were also assigned protein identities. The physiological roles of these differential expressions were discussed in relation to nodule-specific metabolisms in soybean nodules.
Organogenesis of legume root nodules.	The N(2)-fixing nodules elicited by rhizobia on legume roots represent a useful model for studying plant development. Nodule formation implies a complex progression of temporally and spatially regulated events of cell differentiation/dedifferentiation involving several root tissues. In this review we describe the morphogenetic events leading to the development of these histologically well-structured organs. These events include (1) root hair deformation, (2) development and growth of infection threads, (3) induction of the nodule primordium, and (4) induction, activity, and persistence of the nodular meristem and/or of foci of meristematic activities. Particular attention is given to specific aspects of the symbiosis, such as the early stages of intracellular invasion and to differentiation of the intracellular form of rhizobia, called symbiosomes. These developmental aspects were correlated with (1) the regulatory signals exchanged, (2) the plant genes expressed in specific cell types, and (3) the staining procedures that allow the recognition of some cell types. When strictly linked with morphogenesis, the nodulation phenotypes of plant and bacterial mutants such as the developmental consequence of the treatment with metabolic inhibitors, metabolic intermediates, or the variation of physical parameters are described. Finally, some aspects of nodule senescence and of regulation of nodulation are discussed.
Oxygen-controlled bacterial growth in the sponge Suberites domuncula: toward a molecular understanding of the symbiotic relationships between sponge and bacteria.	Sponges (phylum Porifera), known to be the richest producers among the metazoans of bioactive secondary metabolites, are assumed to live in a symbiotic relationship with microorganisms, especially bacteria. Until now, the molecular basis of the mutual symbiosis, the exchange of metabolites for the benefit of the other partner, has not been understood. We show with the demosponge Suberites domuncula as a model that the sponge expresses under optimal aeration conditions the enzyme tyrosinase, which synthesizes diphenols from monophenolic compounds. The cDNA isolated was used as a probe to determine the steady-state level of gene expression. The gene expression level parallels the level of specific activity in sponge tissue, indicating that without aeration the tyrosinase level drops drastically; this effect is reversible. The SB2 bacterium isolated from the sponge surface grew well in M9 minimal salt medium supplemented with the dihydroxylated aromatic compound protocatechuate; this carbon source supported growth more than did glucose. From the SB2 bacterium the protocatechuate gene cluster was cloned and sequenced. This cluster comprises all genes coding for enzymes involved in the conversion of protocatechuate to acetyl coenzyme A. Expression is strongly induced if the bacteria are cultivated on M9-protocatechuate medium; the genes pcaQ (encoding the putative transcriptional activator of the pca operon) and pcaDC were used for quantitative PCR analyses. We conclude that metabolites, in this case diphenols, which might be produced by the sponge S. domuncula are utilized by the sponge surface-associated bacterium for energy generation. This rationale will help to further uncover the symbiotic pathways between sponges and their associated "nonculturable" microorganisms; our approach is flanked by the establishment of an EST (expressed sequence tags) database in our laboratory.
Further root colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in already mycorrhizal plants is suppressed after a critical level of root colonization.	An established arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis suppresses further mycorrhization. It is not clear whether the observed suppressional effect is linked with the level of root colonization or not. In the present work we studied the effect of the degree of root colonization by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae on further root colonization by G. mosseae. At different time points barley plants grown in split-root compartments were pre-inoculated on one half of the split-root system with G. mosseae. Sequential inoculation resulted in different colonization levels. Thereafter, the second half of the split root system was inoculated. The results indicate an enhanced suppression of root colonization on the second side of the split-root system when colonization levels increased on the first side.
Cytokinins play opposite roles in lateral root formation, and nematode and Rhizobial symbioses.	We used the cytokinin-responsive Arabidopsis response regulator (ARR)5 gene promoter fused to a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, and cytokinin oxidase (CKX) genes from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtCKX3) and maize (ZmCKX1) to investigate the roles of cytokinins in lateral root formation and symbiosis in Lotus japonicus. ARR5 expression was undetectable in the dividing initial cells at early stages of lateral root formation, but later we observed high expression in the base of the lateral root primordium. The root tip continues to express ARR5 during subsequent development of the lateral root. These results suggest a dynamic role for cytokinin in lateral root development. We observed ARR5 expression in curled/deformed root hairs, and also in nodule primordia in response to Rhizobial inoculation. This expression declined once the nodule emerged from the parent root. Root penetration and migration of root-knot nematode (RKN) second-stage larvae (L2) did not elevate ARR5 expression, but a high level of expression was induced when L2 reached the differentiating vascular bundle and during early stages of the nematode-plant interaction. ARR5 expression was specifically absent in mature giant cells (GCs), although dividing cells around the GCs continued to express this reporter. The same pattern was observed using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter driven by the ARR5 promoter in tomato. Overexpression of CKX genes rendered the transgenic hairy roots resistant to exogenous application of the cytokinin [N6-(Delta2 isopentenyl) adenine riboside] (iPR). CKX roots have significantly more lateral roots, but fewer nodules and nematode-induced root galls per plant, than control hairy roots.
Lotus japonicus LjKUP is induced late during nodule development and encodes a potassium transporter of the plasma membrane.	The KUP family of potassium transporters in plants is large but poorly characterized. We isolated and characterized the first KUP transporter from a legume, LjKUP of Lotus japonicus. Although expressed throughout plants, LjKUP transcript levels were highest in nodules. Induction of LjKUP expression occurred late during nodule development, at a time of rapid organ expansion. A high level of LjKUP expression was maintained in mature, full-sized nodules. However, induction of LjKUP expression was independent of symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF), and occurred in ineffective nodules resulting from mutations in either the plant or its microsymbiont, Mesorhizobium loti. Heterologous expression of LjKUP in Escherichia coli showed that the protein is able to transport potassium. Transient expression of a GFP-LjKUP fusion protein in Arabidopsis cells indicated a plasma membrane location for the transporter. Taken together, the results indicate that LjKUP is a potassium transporter of the plasma membrane, which may play roles in cell expansion during nodule development and in ion homeostasis during SNF.
Accumulation of lipochitin oligosaccharides and NodD-activating compounds in an efficient plant--Rhizobium nodulation assay.	During legume plant--Rhizobium spp. interactions, leading to the formation of nitrogen-fixing root nodules, the two major determinants of host plant-specificity are plant-produced nod gene inducers (NodD protein activating compounds) and bacterial lipochitin oligosaccharides (LCOs or Nod factors). In a time course, we describe the accumulation of LCOs in an efficient nodulation assay with Vicia sativa subsp. nigra and Rhizobium leguminosarum, in connection with the presence of NodD-activating compounds in the exudate of V. sativa roots. Relatively small amounts of both LCOs and NodD-activating compounds were found to be required for initiation of nodulation during the first days after inoculation. A strong increase in the amount of NodRlv-V[18:4,Ac] LCOs preceded root infection and nodule primordium formation. In contrast to the situation with non-nodulating rhizobia and nonmitogenic LCOs, the amount of NodD-activating compounds in the culture medium remained small after addition of nodulating rhizobia or mitogenic LCOs. Furthermore, addition of nodulating rhizobia or mitogenic LCOs resulted in nearly complete inhibition of root hair formation and elongation, whereas nonmitogenic LCOs stimulated root hair growth. Retention of NodD-activating compounds in the root may inhibit root hair growth.
Colored-noise-induced discontinuous transitions in symbiotic ecosystems.	A symbiotic ecosystem is studied by means of the Lotka-Volterra stochastic model, using the generalized Verhulst self-regulation. The effect of fluctuating environment on the carrying capacity of a population is taken into account as dichotomous noise. The study is a follow-up of our investigation of symbiotic ecosystems subjected to three-level (trichotomous) noise [Phys. Rev. E 65, 051108 (2002)]]. Relying on the mean-field theory, an exact self-consistency equation for stationary states is derived. In some cases the mean field exhibits hysteresis as a function of noise parameters. It is established that random interactions with the environment can cause discontinuous transitions. The dependence of the critical coupling strengths on the noise parameters is found and illustrated by phase diagrams. Predictions from the mean-field theory are compared with the results of numerical simulations. Our results provide a possible scenario for catastrophic shifts of population sizes observed in nature.
Two genes encoding different truncated hemoglobins are regulated during root nodule and arbuscular mycorrhiza symbioses of Medicago truncatula.	The MtTrHb1 and MtTrHb2 genes of the model legume Medicago truncatula Gaertn. encode proteins homologous to truncated hemoglobins (TrHb) from plants and a range of different microorganisms. Induction of MtTrHb1 in root nodules and expression of MtTrHb2 in root nodules, as well as in mycorrhizal roots, were shown by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The promoters of both genes were PCR-amplified and fused to the gusAint coding region. By analysing these gusAint-fusions in transgenic root tissues, we were able to localize their activity in root nodules and in roots colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. Whereas the promoter of MtTrHb1 was activated in the infected cells of the nitrogen-fixing zone of root nodules, the MtTrHb2 promoter was predominantly active in the nodule vascular tissue. This expression pattern correlates with the presence of an 'organ-specific element' (OSE)-like sequence in the MtTrHb1 promoter, which is not present in the MtTrHb2 regulatory unit. Concerning the AM symbiosis, only the MtTrHb2 promoter mediated an expression in arbuscule-containing cells and in the root vascular tissue of mycorrhizal root segments colonized by the fungus Glomus intraradices.
Role of nutrient level and defoliation on symbiotic function: experimental evidence by tracing 14C/15N exchange in mycorrhizal birch seedlings.	High nutrient availability and defoliation generally reduce ectomycorrhizal colonization levels in trees, but it is not known how this affects the functional aspects of mycorrhizal symbiosis. It was therefore investigated whether (1) defoliation or increasing substrate N availability reduce C allocation from the plant to the fungus and N allocation from the fungus to the plant (symbiotic resource exchange), (2) symbiotic resource exchange depends on relative N and P availability, and (3) fungal N translocation to plant and plant C allocation to fungus are interdependent. Birch (Betula pendula) seedlings were grown in symbiosis with the ectomycorrhizal fungus Paxillus involutus at five times excess N, or at five times excess N and P for 6 weeks. One-half of the plants were defoliated and the plant shoots were allowed to photosynthesize 14CO2 while the fungal compartment was exposed to 14NH4. After 3 days, the 14C of plant origin in fungal tissues and 15N of fungal origin in plant tissues were quantified. Nutrient availability had no observable effect on symbiotic resource exchange in non-defoliated systems. Defoliation reduced symbiotic N acquisition by plants at all levels of nutrient availability, with the reduction being most marked at higher N availability, indicating an increased tendency in the symbiotic system to discontinue resource exchange after defoliation at higher fertility levels. The concentration of 14C in extramatrical mycelium correlated significantly with the concentration of 15N in birch shoots. The results support the assumption that N delivery to the host by the mycorrhizal fungus is dependent on C flow from the plant to the fungus, and that exchanges between the partners are reciprocal. No significant reductions in root 14C content as a response to defoliation were observed, indicating that defoliation specifically reduced allocation to fungus, but not markedly to roots.
The symbiotic defect in a Sinorhizobium meliloti lipopolysaccharide mutant can be overcome by expression of other surface polysaccharides.	In this work we have examined the extent of functional complementation in symbiosis among different Sinorhizobium meliloti surface polysaccharides including lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We show that a symbiotic deficiency associated with an LPS defect can be reversed by appropriate expression of other surface polysaccharides such as galactoglucan (EPSII) and a particular form of capsular polysaccharide (KdoPS). It is noteworthy that, while succinoglycan EPSI and LPS cannot functionally substitute for each other, they can both be replaced by the same common set of polysaccharides (i.e., EPSII/KdoPS). The complex pattern of functional complementation in symbiosis among S. meliloti surface polysaccharides was shown to be different in Medicago truncatula compared to that previously reported for M. sativa.
Insect cellular and chemical limitations to pathogen development: the Colorado potato beetle, the nematode Heterorhabditis marelatus, and its symbiotic bacteria.	This research examines possible factors limiting pathogen development and reproduction in a novel host insect. The nematode Heterorhabditis marelatus and its symbiotic bacterium, Photorhabdus luminescens, kill 98% of nematode-treated Colorado potato beetle (CPB) prepupae, but the nematode reproduces in only 1-6% of beetles. We examined nematode/bacterial inhibition at each step of the normal developmental pathway to determine host feature(s) limiting nematode reproduction. We found that in vivo encapsulation of nematodes occurred in only 1.6% of CPB, and in 5% of in vitro hanging drops of hemolymph. Thus, the cellular defense system did not strongly limit nematode reproduction in the CPB. The symbiotic bacterium was negatively affected by a heat-labile factor found in the CPB's hemolymph which often caused the bacterium to switch from the primary form that produces antibiotics and nutrients necessary for the nematodes' development, to a secondary form that provides only limited nutrients. A 58 kDa protein was isolated and bioassayed for activity against P. luminescens, but caused a delay in bacterial growth rather than the primary-secondary form switch. Thus, the identity of the heat-labile factor could not be confirmed as being the 58 kDa protein. The heat-labile factor did not directly affect the nematode. The addition of lipids in the form of olive oil to heated CPB hemolymph allowed nematodes to reproduce in 17% of hanging drops, in contrast to zero reproduction in hemolymph without oil. Reproductive nematodes were smaller when grown in CPB hemolymph than in hemolymph of the highly susceptible Galleria mellonella. These data suggest that both the toxic heat-labile factor and a lack of appropriate nutrients alter the CPB-bacterium-nematode interaction. These factors preclude the use of this otherwise highly effective nematode-bacterial complex in the longterm control of the CPB.
Differential susceptibility to oxidative stress of two scleractinian corals: antioxidant functioning of mycosporine-glycine.	This study examined the importance of mycosporine-glycine (Myc-Gly) as a functional antioxidant in the thermal-stress susceptibility of two scleractinian corals, Platygyra ryukyuensis and Stylophora pistillata. Photochemical efficiency of PSII (F(v)/F(m)), activity of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and composition and abundance of mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs) in the coral tissue and in symbiotic zooxanthellae were analyzed during 12-h exposure to high temperature (33 degrees C). After 6- and 12-h exposures at 33 degrees C, S. pistillata showed a significantly more pronounced decline in F(v)/F(m) compared to P. ryukyuensis. A 6-h exposure at 33 degrees C induced a significant increase in the activities of SOD and CAT in both host and zooxanthellae components of S. pistillata while in P. ryukyuensis a significant increase was observed only in the CAT activity of zooxanthellae. After 12-h exposure, the SOD activity of P. ryukyuensis was unaffected in the coral tissue but slightly increased in zooxanthellae, whereas the CAT activity in the coral tissue showed a 2.5-fold increase. The total activity of antioxidant enzymes was significantly higher in S. pistillata than in P. ryukyuensis, suggesting that P. ryukyuensis is less sensitive to oxidative stress than S. pistillata. This differential susceptibility of the corals is consistent with a 20-fold higher initial concentration of Myc-Gly in P. ryukyuensis compared to S. pistillata. In the coral tissue and zooxanthellae of both species investigated, the first 6 h of exposure to thermal stress induced a pronounced reduction in the abundance of Myc-Gly but not in other MAAs. When exposure was prolonged to 12 h, the Myc-Gly pool continued to decrease in P. ryukyuensis and was completely depleted in S. pistillata. The delay in the onset of oxidative stress in P. ryukyuensis and the dramatic increase in the activities of the antioxidant enzymes in S. pistillata, which contains low concentrations of Myc-Gly suggest that Myc-Gly provides rapid protection against oxidative stress before the antioxidant enzymes are induced. These findings strongly suggest that Myc-Gly is functioning as a biological antioxidant in the coral tissue and zooxanthellae and demonstrate its importance in the survival of reef-building corals under thermal stress.
Metabolic interdependence of obligate intracellular bacteria and their insect hosts.	Mutualistic associations of obligate intracellular bacteria and insects have attracted much interest in the past few years due to the evolutionary consequences for their genome structure. However, much less attention has been paid to the metabolic ramifications for these endosymbiotic microorganisms, which have to compete with but also to adapt to another metabolism--that of the host cell. This review attempts to provide insights into the complex physiological interactions and the evolution of metabolic pathways of several mutualistic bacteria of aphids, ants, and tsetse flies and their insect hosts.
Environment: early ant plagues in the New World.	The identity and origin of the West Indian plague ants of the early sixteenth and late eighteenth centuries have long been a mystery. By reviewing historic accounts with an analysis of the present-day Caribbean ant fauna, I have narrowed the list of suspects to two species and their insect symbionts.
Symbiotic phosphate transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas.	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonize the root systems of most land plants and modulate plant growth by enhancing the availability of nutrients, mainly phosphorus, for plant nutrition. Recently identified genes encoding mycorrhiza-specific plant phosphate transporters have enabled fundamental problems in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis research to be addressed. Because phosphate transport is a key feature of this symbiosis, the study of phosphate transport mechanisms and their gene regulation will further our understanding of the intimate interaction between the two symbiotic partners.
Pseudomonas-Saccharomyces interactions: influence of fungal metabolism on bacterial physiology and survival.	Fungal-bacterial interactions are ubiquitous, yet their molecular basis is only poorly understood. In this study, a novel beneficial interaction between a strain of Pseudomonas putida and the fungus Saccharomyces cerevisiae was identified. When the bacteria were incubated alone in grape juice or in synthetic medium containing various concentrations of glucose, they lost viability rapidly during stationary phase. However, when the bacteria were incubated in these media in the presence of the fungus, their stationary phase survival improved dramatically. On agar plates containing glucose, the beneficial effects of the fungus were manifested in robust bacterial growth and exopolysaccharide production that led to visible mucoidy. In contrast, bacteria grew poorly and were nonmucoid in such media in the absence of the fungus. By using the available S. cerevisiae deletion library, yeast mutants that were unable to mediate this beneficial interaction were identified. These mutants revealed that the beneficial effect on bacterial physiology and survival was mediated by the ability of the fungus to metabolize the available glucose and consequent effects on the medium's pH. In natural environments where the concentration of glucose is high, it is likely that the presence of fungi has had profound beneficial effects on the physiology and survival of certain P. putida strains throughout their natural history.
Endolithic growth of two Lecidea lichens in granite from continental Antarctica detected by molecular and microscopy techniques.	Through the combined use of molecular and microscopy techniques, the endolithic lichens Lecidea cancriformis and Lecidea sp. were identified, even in the absence of fruiting bodies, and positioned under epilithic lichens. Cells of both algal and fungal symbionts were observed in fissures and cracks of the lithic substrate with no clear heteromerous structure. At the ultrastructural level, the two lichens differed in terms of their algal-fungal relationships. Only one genotype of Trebouxia ITS sequence was identified from specimens of Lecidea sp., Umbilicaria aprina and Buellia frigida from the same zone, which could be mainly determined by low availability of alga in these extreme environments. These lichens showed features typical of both chasmoendolithic and euendolithic microorganisms. Signs of biogeophysical and biogeochemical action on the substrate were detected close to fungal cells. This action seemed to be mainly conditioned by the local physico-chemical features of the substrate. Evidence for the biomobilization of elements by these endolithic lichens was found. L. cancriformis was observed to accumulate substantial amounts of calcium-rich biominerals. The combined approach proposed is useful for mapping the distribution of endolithic lichens and analysing the processes that occur in their microscopic environment.
Ectomycorrhizal symbiosis affects functional diversity of rhizosphere fluorescent pseudomonads.	Here we characterized the effect of the ectomycorrhizal symbiosis on the genotypic and functional diversity of soil Pseudomonas fluorescens populations and analysed its possible consequences in terms of plant nutrition, development and health. Sixty strains of P. fluorescens were isolated from the bulk soil of a forest nursery, the ectomycorrhizosphere and the ectomycorrhizas of the Douglas fir (Pseudostuga menziesii) seedlings-Laccaria bicolor S238N. They were characterized in vitro with the following criteria: ARDRA, phosphate solubilization, siderophore, HCN and AIA production, genes of N2-fixation and antibiotic synthesis, in vitro confrontation with a range of phytopathogenic and ectomycorrhizal fungi, effect on the Douglas fir-L. bicolor symbiosis. For most of these criteria, we demonstrated that the ectomycorrhizosphere significantly structures the P. fluorescens populations and selects strains potentially beneficial to the symbiosis and to the plant. This prompts us to propose the ectomycorrhizal symbiosis as a true microbial complex where multitrophic interactions take place. Moreover it underlines the fact that this symbiosis has an indirect positive effect on plant growth, via its selective pressure on bacterial communities, in addition to its known direct positive effect.
The Lipid A substructure of the Sinorhizobium meliloti lipopolysaccharides is sufficient to suppress the oxidative burst in host plants.	Medicago sativa (alfalfa), Medicago truncatula and Nicotiana tabacum cell suspension cultures, responding to elicitation with the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), were used to analyse the suppressor (and elicitor) activity of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of the symbiotic soil bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti. In order to identify the epitopes of the LPS molecule recognized by the plant, S. meliloti mutants defective in LPS biosynthesis and hydrolytically obtained Lipid A were analysed for biological activity. Lipopolysaccharides isolated from Sinorhizobium meliloti mutants 6963 (altered core region) and L994 (no long-chain fatty acid) showed the same ability to suppress the oxidative burst in host plant cell cultures as the wild-type LPS. Lipid A also displayed the same suppressor activity. By contrast, rhizobial LPS, but not Lipid A, was active as an inducer of the oxidative burst reaction in cell cultures of the nonhost Nicotiana tabacum. In host plants of Sinorhizobium meliloti the Lipid A part is sufficient to suppress the oxidative burst, but in non-host plants at least some sugars of the LPS core region are required to induce defence reactions.
The liverwort Marchantia foliacea forms a specialized symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in the genus Glomus.	Microscopic evidence suggests that fungi forming endosymbioses with liverworts in the Marchantiales are arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi from the Glomeromycota. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of ribosomal sequences confirmed that endophytes of the New Zealand liverwort, Marchantia foliacea, were members of the genus Glomus. Endophytes from two Glomus rDNA phylotypes were repeatedly isolated from geographically separated liverwort samples. Multiple phylotypes were present in the same liverwort patch. The colonizing Glomus species exhibited substantial internal transcribed spacer sequence variation within phylotypes. This work suggests that certain liverwort species may serve as a model for studying DNA sequence variation in colonizing AM phylotypes and specificity in AM-host relationships.
Effects of four species of endophytic fungi on the growth and polysaccharide and alkaloid contents of Dendrobium nobile]	To study the effects of four species of endophytic fungi on the growth and polysaccharide and alkaloid contents of cultured Dendrobium nobile.
Is Giardia a living fossil?	Despite enormous efforts, the patterns of the rise of eukaryotic life on Earth are not clearly defined. The ability of eukaryotes to produce energy using oxygen and sugars was a key factor in advancing life on Earth towards complex multicellular organisms. However, this was not the only way to produce energy and survive. Mitochondria probably appeared soon after the oxygen increase in the Earth's atmosphere but many microaerophilic protists require little or no oxygen to survive. New ultrastructural, biochemical and molecular phylogeny data about structures and processes involved in the generation of energy by currently known protists have forced the revision of understanding of the "tree of life".
Application of Aspergillus niger-treated agrowaste residue and Glomus mosseae for improving growth and nutrition of Trifolium repens in a Cd-contaminated soil.	The microbial transformation of sugar beet (SB) agrowaste with or without rock-phosphate (RP) has utility for the improvement of plant growth in a Cd (5 microg g-1) artificially contaminated soil, particularly when the soil is co-inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Glomus mosseae isolated from a Cd-polluted area. Under such Cd-polluted conditions, the limited growth, mineral nutrition, symbiotic developments (nodulation and AM-colonization) and soil enzymatic activities were stimulated using SB or SB+RP as soil amendments and G. mosseae as inoculant. G. mosseae enhanced plant establishment in a higher extent in amended soil; it is probably due to the interactive effect increasing the potential fertility of such compounds and its ability for decreasing Cd transfer from soil to plant. The amount of Cd transferred from soil solution to biomass of AM-colonized plants ranged from 0.09 microg Cd g-1 (in SB+RP-amended soil) to 0.6 microg Cd g-1 (in non-amended soil). Nodule formation was more sensitive to Cd than AM-colonization, and both symbioses were stimulated in amended soils. Not only AM-colonization but also amendments were critical for plant growth and nutrition in Cd-polluted soil. The high effectiveness of AM inoculum increasing nutrients and decreasing Cd in amended soil indicated the positive interaction of these treatments in increasing plant tolerance to Cd contamination.
Microtubule dynamics in living root hairs: transient slowing by lipochitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals.	The incorporation of a fusion of green fluorescent protein and tubulin-alpha 6 from Arabidopsis thaliana in root hairs of Lotus japonicus has allowed us to visualize and quantify the dynamic parameters of the cortical microtubules in living root hairs. Analysis of individual microtubule turnover in real time showed that only plus polymer ends contributed to overall microtubule dynamicity, exhibiting dynamic instability as the main type of microtubule behavior in Lotus root hairs. Comparison of the four standard parameters of in vivo dynamic instability--the growth rate, the disassembly rate, and the frequency of transitions from disassembly to growth (rescue) and from growth to disassembly (catastrophe)--revealed that microtubules in young root hairs were more dynamic than those in mature root hairs. Either inoculation with Mesorhizobium loti or purified M. loti lipochitin oligosaccharide signal molecules (Nod factors) significantly affected the growth rate and transition frequencies in emerging and growing root hairs, making microtubules less dynamic at a specific window after symbiotic inoculation. This response of root hair cells to rhizobial Nod factors is discussed in terms of the possible biological significance of microtubule dynamics in the early signaling events leading to the establishment and progression of the globally important Rhizobium/legume symbiosis.
Suppression of Meloidogyne javanica by antagonistic and plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria.	Four rhizobacteria selected out of over 500 isolates from rhizosphere of the vegetables in China were further studied for suppression of the root-knot nematode and soil-borne fungal pathogens in laboratory and greenhouse in Belgium. They were identified as Brevibacillus brevis or Bacillus subtilis by Biolog test and partial 16s rDNA sequence comparison. They not only inhibited the radial growth of the root-infecting fungi Rhizoctonia solani SX-6, Pythium aphanidermatum ZJP-1 and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum ZJF-2 in vitro, but also exhibited strong nematicidal activity by killing the second stage larvae of Meloidogyne javanica to varying degrees in the greenhouse. The toxic principles of bacterium B7 that showed the highest juvenile mortality were partially characterized. The active factors were heat stability and resistance to extreme pH values. B7 used either as seed dressing or soil drench significantly reduced the nematode populations in the rhizosphere and enhanced the growth of mungbean plants over the controls in the presence or absence of R. solani.
Detection and separation of Rhizobium and Bradyrhizobium Nod metabolites using thin-layer chromatography.	Using radioactive acetate as a precursor, it was shown that the common nodABC genes of Rhizobium and Bradyrhizobium strains are involved in the production of one or more metabolites that are excreted into the growth medium. A rapid thin-layer chromatography (TLC) system has been developed to separate these so-called Nod metabolites that can then be visualized by autoradiography. Different patterns of Nod metabolites were observed in the tested strains of the cross-inoculation groups of R. leguminosarum bv. viceae, R. l. bv. trifolii, R. meliloti, and B. japonicum. Only Nod metabolites of R. meliloti became labeled when radioactive sulphate was present in the medium. The role of the other nodulation genes of R. l. bv. viceae in the production of the detected Nod metabolites was tested in further detail. In addition to the common nodABC genes, the nodFE and nodL genes are involved in the production of Nod metabolites. In contrast, the chromosomal background did not influence the number of detected Nod metabolites or their mobilities on TLC plates. Nod metabolites could also be produced and excreted in Escherichia coli cells in which the appropriate nodulation genes were expressed.
Uric acid recycling in the shield bug, Parastrachia japonensis (Hemiptera: Parastrachiidae), during diapause.	Nymphs of the univoltine shield bug, Parastrachia japonensis grow by feeding on the drupes of their sole food plant, which are available for only 2 weeks a year. The new adults soon enter a reproductive diapause and survive without feeding for at least 10 months up to 2 years. Uric acid was found to be the predominant component among four waste nitrogenous compounds, i.e., uric acid, allantoin, allantoic acid and urea in the body of both nymphs and adults in all stages, and to be predominantly excreted by the nymphs and reproductive adults. However, adults in diapause excreted negligible amounts of these compounds. Erwinia-like bacteria were found exclusively in the cecum of midgut, in which three uricolytic enzymes, i.e., uricase, allantoinase and allantoicase were detected. Ninety % of adults in diapause could survive on water for 9 months, but those given 0.02% rifampicin aqueous solution all died within this period, with significant reduction of the bacteria and uricase activity in the cecum. Rifampicin treatment resulted in a considerable reduction of free amino acids, especially proline in the hemolymph. These results suggest that uric acid is recycled as an amino acid source with the aid of Erwinia-like bacteria, and uricase functions as a key enzyme for this process.
Leeches and their microbiota: naturally simple symbiosis models.	Strictly blood-feeding leeches and their limited microbiota provide natural and powerful model systems to examine symbiosis. Blood is devoid of essential nutrients and it is thought that symbiotic bacteria synthesize these for the host. In this review, three distinct leech-microbe associations are described: (i) the mycetome, which is the large symbiont-containing organ associated with the esophagus; (ii) the nephridia and bladders that form the excretory system; and (iii) the digestive tract, where two bacterial species dominate the microbiota. The current knowledge and features of leech biology that promote the investigation of interspecific interactions (host-microbe and microbe-microbe) and their evolution are highlighted.
Infectivity of soilborne Frankia and mycorrhizae in Discaria trinervis along a vegetation gradient in Patagonian soil.	The infective capacities of the nitrogen fixing Actinomycete Frankia and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from soils near watercourses, along a vegetation gradient, were studied using plant bioassays. Frankia and arbuscular mycorrhizas capable of infecting Discaria trinervis were found at seventeen sites sampled. More specific enumeration of the infective capacities of both microorganisms in relation to environmental factors was performed in seven representative soils of the analysed vegetation zones (rainforest, xeric forest and steppe) using the most probable number method. The highest nodulation capacities ranged from 340 infective units g(-1 )soil, in a steppe marsh devoid of actinorhizas, to 61 in a coastal actinorhizal scrub (in xeric forest). The highest number of infective mycorrhizal units--also found in marsh--was 145. In general, rainforest soils had the lowest values for both microorganisms. Infective units of Frankia and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in soil were positively correlated (r = 0.89, P < 0.05). Both soilborne symbionts showed the highest infective capacity in semi-arid conditions nearby watercourse and at the valley bottom location. Tripartite symbiosis was effective in plants inoculated with steppe and xeric forest soils and plants inoculated with Frankia BCU110501 and Glomus mosseae. Interaction between both symbionts and influence of environmental conditions, in general, would contribute to define comparable trends of their infective capacities.
Mutualistic mycorrhiza in orchids: evidence from plant-fungus carbon and nitrogen transfers in the green-leaved terrestrial orchid Goodyera repens.	The roles of mycorrhiza in facilitating the acquisition and transfer of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) to adult orchids are poorly understood. Here, we employed isotopically labelled sources of C and N to investigate these processes in the green forest orchid, Goodyera repens. Fungus-to-orchid transfers of C and N were measured using mass spectrometry after supplying extraradical mycelial systems with double-labelled [13C-15N]glycine. Orchid-to-fungus C transfer was revealed and quantified by radioisotope imaging and liquid scintillation counting of extraradical mycelium following 14CO2 fixation by shoots. Both 13C and 15N were assimilated by the fungus and transferred to the roots and shoots of the orchid. Contrary to previous reports, considerable quantities (2.6% over 72 h) of fixed C were shown to be allocated to the extraradical mycelium of the fungus. This study demonstrates, for the first time, mutualism in orchid mycorrhiza, bidirectional transfer of C between a green orchid and its fungal symbiont, and a fungus-dependent pathway for organic N acquisition by an orchid.
Negotiation of mutualism: rhizobia and legumes.	The evolution and persistence of biological cooperation have been an important puzzle in evolutionary theory. Here, we suggest a new approach based on bargaining theory to tackle the question. We present a mechanistic model for negotiation of benefits between a nitrogen-fixing nodule and a legume plant. To that end, we first derive growth rates for the nodule and plant from metabolic models of each as a function of material fluxes between them. We use these growth rates as pay-off functions in the negotiation process, which is analogous to collective bargaining between a firm and a workers' union. Our model predicts that negotiations lead to the Nash bargaining solution, maximizing the product of players' pay-offs. This work introduces elements of cooperative game theory into the field of mutualistic interactions. In the discussion of the paper, we argue for the benefits of such an approach in studying the question of biological cooperation.
Salt-tolerant rhizobia isolated from a Tunisian oasis that are highly effective for symbiotic N2-fixation with Phaseolus vulgaris constitute a novel biovar (bv. mediterranense) of Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Nodulation of common bean was explored in six oases in the south of Tunisia. Nineteen isolates were characterized by PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA. Three species of rhizobia were identified, Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium gallicum and Sinorhizobium meliloti. The diversity of the symbiotic genes was then assessed by PCR-RFLP of nodC and nifH genes. The majority of the symbiotic genotypes were conserved between oases and other soils of the north of the country. Sinorhizobia isolated from bean were then compared with isolates from Medicago truncatula plants grown in the oases soils. All the nodC types except for nodC type p that was specific to common bean isolates were shared by both hosts. The four isolates with nodC type p induced N(2)-fixing effective nodules on common bean but did not nodulate M. truncatula and Medicago sativa. The phylogenetic analysis of nifH and nodC genes showed that these isolates carry symbiotic genes different from those previously characterized among Medicago and bean symbionts, but closely related to those of S. fredii Spanish and Tunisian isolates effective in symbiosis with common bean but unable to nodulate soybean. The creation of a novel biovar shared by S. meliloti and S. fredii, bv. mediterranense, was proposed.
Interactions between parasites of the cockle Austrovenus stutchburyi: hitch-hikers, resident-cleaners, and habitat-facilitators.	The patterns of association between parasites within a particular host are determined by a number of factors. One of these factors is whether or not infection by one parasite influences the probability of acquiring other parasite species. This study investigates the pattern of association between various parasites of the New Zealand cockle Austrovenus stutchburyi. Hundreds of cockles were collected from one locality within Otago Harbour, New Zealand and examined for trematode metacercariae and other symbionts. Two interspecific associations emerged from the study. First, the presence of the myicolid copepod Pseudomyicola spinosus was positively associated with higher infection intensity by echinostomes. The side-effect of the copepod's activities within the cockle is suggested as the proximate mechanism that facilitates infection by echinostome cercariae, leading to a greater rate of accumulation of metacercariae in cockles harbouring the copepod. Second, a positive association was also found between infection intensity of the metacercariae of foot-encysting echinostomes and that of gymnophallid metacercariae. This supports earlier findings and suggests that the gymnophallid is a hitch-hiker parasite because, in addition to the pattern of positive association, it (a) shares the same transmission route as the echinostomes, and (b) unlike the echinostomes, it is not capable of increasing the host's susceptibility to avian predation. Thus, both active hitch-hiking and incidental facilitation lead to non-random infection patterns in this parasite community.
Alpha-proteobacterial symbionts of marine bryozoans in the genus Watersipora.	Bacterial symbionts that resembled mollicutes were discovered in the marine bryozoan Watersipora arcuata in the 1980s. In this study, we used PCR and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes, specific fluorescence in situ hybridization, and phylogenetic analysis to determine that the bacterial symbionts of "W. subtorquata" and "W. arcuata" from several locations along the California coast are actually closely related alpha-Proteobacteria, not mollicutes. We propose the names "Candidatus Endowatersipora palomitas" and "Candidatus Endowatersipora rubus" for the symbionts of "W. subtorquata" and "W. arcuata," respectively.
Sugar for my honey: carbohydrate partitioning in ectomycorrhizal symbiosis.	Simple, readily utilizable carbohydrates, necessary for growth and maintenance of large numbers of microbes are rare in forest soils. Among other types of mutualistic interactions, the formation of ectomycorrhizas, a symbiosis between tree roots and certain soil fungi, is a way to overcome nutrient and carbohydrate limitations typical for many forest ecosystems. Ectomycorrhiza formation is typical for trees in boreal and temperate forests of the northern hemisphere and alpine regions world-wide. The main function of this symbiosis is the exchange of fungus-derived nutrients for plant-derived carbohydrates, enabling the colonization of mineral nutrient-poor environments. In ectomycorrhizal symbiosis up to 1/3 of plant photoassimilates could be transferred toward the fungal partner. The creation of such a strong sink is directly related to the efficiency of fungal hexose uptake at the plant/fungus interface, a modulated fungal carbohydrate metabolism in the ectomycorrhiza, and the export of carbohydrates towards soil growing hyphae. However, not only the fungus but also the plant partner increase its expression of hexose importer genes at the plant/fungus interface. This increase in hexose uptake capacity of plant roots in combination with an increase in photosynthesis may explain how the plant deals with the growing fungal carbohydrate demand in symbiosis and how it can restrict this loss of carbohydrates under certain conditions to avoid fungal parasitism.
Identification and expression regulation of symbiotically activated legume genes.	Legume plants are able to enter two different endosymbioses with soil prokaryotes and soil fungi, leading to nitrogen-fixing root nodules and to arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM), respectively. We applied in silico and microarray-based transcriptome profiling approaches to uncover the transcriptome of developing root nodules and AM roots of the model legume Medicago truncatula. Several hundred genes were found to be activated in different stages of either symbiosis, with almost 100 genes being co-induced during nodulation and in arbuscular mycorrhiza. These co-induced genes can be associated with different cellular functions required for symbiotic efficiency, such as the facilitation of transport processes across the perisymbiotic membranes that surround the endosymbiotic bacteroids in root nodules and the arbuscules in AM roots. To specify promoter elements required for gene expression in arbuscule-containing cells, reporter gene fusions of the promoter of the Vicia faba leghemoglobin gene VfLb29 were studied by loss-of-function and gain-of-function approaches in transgenic hairy roots. These analyses specified a 85-bp fragment that was necessary for gene expression in arbuscule-containing cells but was dispensible for gene activation in root nodules. In contrast to promoters mediating gene expression in the infected cells of root nodules, the activation of genes in AM appears to be governed by more complex regulatory systems requiring different promoter modules.
Proteases in plant root symbiosis.	Proteases catalyze the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in proteins/peptides inside or outside of cells. They play important roles in development and responses to environmental stresses. In arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM), symbiosis-induced protease genes were found by large-scale transcriptome analyses in different plant species, suggesting that proteolytic processes are implicated in AM. In legumes, some of these were also transcriptionally activated during the root nodule symbiosis. However, the precise function of these symbiosis-induced proteases remains unknown. Here we present a compilation of the symbiosis-induced proteases identified so far and discuss their possible roles in symbiosis.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and plant aquaporin expression.	Almost all land plants have developed a symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Establishment of the association is accompanied by structural changes in the plant root. During arbuscule formation fungal hyphae penetrate the root apoplast and install highly specialized interfaces for solute transport between plant and fungus. The periarbuscular membrane which is part of the plant plasma membrane surrounding arbuscular structures was shown to harbour a high density of different transport systems. Among these also expression of aquaporins was described, which potentially can act as a low affinity transport system for ammonia or ammonium. The present study provides data for expression, localization and function of plant aquaporins in the periarbuscular membrane of mycorrhizal Medicago truncatula plants.
Biology and evolution of adelgidae.	The Adelgidae form a small clade of insects within the Aphidoidea (Hemiptera) that includes some of the most destructive introduced pest species threatening North American forest ecosystems. Despite their importance, little is known about their evolutionary history and their taxonomy remains unresolved. Adelgids are cyclically parthenogenetic and exhibit multigeneration complex life cycles. They can be holocyclic, with a sexual generation and host alternation, or anholocyclic, entirely asexual and without host alternation. We discuss adelgid behavior and ecology, emphasizing plant-insect interactions, and we explore ways that the biogeographic history of their host plants may have affected adelgid phylogeny and evolution of adelgid life cycles. Finally, we highlight several areas in which additional research into speciation, population genetics, multitrophic interactions, and life-history evolution would improve our understanding of adelgid biology and evolution.
Symbiotic nitrogen fixation in a tropical rainforest: 15N natural abundance measurements supported by experimental isotopic enrichment.	* Leguminous trees are very common in the tropical rainforests of Guyana. Here, species-specific differences in N(2) fixation capability among nodulating legumes growing on different soils and a possible limitation of N(2) fixation by a relatively high nitrogen (N) and low phosphorus (P) availability in the forest were investigated. * Leaves of 17 nodulating species and 17 non-nodulating reference trees were sampled and their delta(15)N values measured. Estimates of N(2) fixation rates were calculated using the (15)N natural abundance method. Pot experiments were conducted on the effect of N and P availability on N(2) fixation using the (15)N-enriched isotope dilution method. * Nine species showed estimates of > 33% leaf N derived from N(2) fixation, while the others had low or undetectable N(2) fixation rates. High N and low P availability reduced N(2) fixation substantially. * The results suggest that a high N and low P availability in the forest limit N(2) fixation. At the forest ecosystem level, N(2) fixation was estimated at c. 6% of total N uptake by the tree community. We conclude that symbiotic N(2) fixation plays an important role in maintaining high amounts of soil available N in undisturbed forest.
The macroecology of marine cleaning mutualisms.	1. Marine cleaning mutualisms generally involve small fish or shrimps removing ectoparasites and other material from cooperating 'client' fish. We evaluate the role of fish abundance, body size and behaviour as determinants of interactions with cleaning mutualists. 2. Data come from eight reef locations in Brazil, the Caribbean, the Mediterranean and Australia. 3. We conducted a meta-analysis of client-cleaner interactions involving 11 cleaner and 221 client species. 4. There was a strong, positive effect of client abundance on cleaning frequency, but only a weak, negative effect of client body size. These effects were modulated by client trophic group and social behaviour. 5. This study adds to a growing body of evidence suggesting a central role of species abundance in structuring species interactions.
Catalase characterization and implication in bleaching of a symbiotic sea anemone.	Symbiotic cnidarians are marine invertebrates harboring photosynthesizing microalgae (named zooxanthellae), which produce great amounts of oxygen and free radicals upon illumination. Studying antioxidative balance is then crucial to understanding how symbiotic cnidarians cope with ROS production. In particular, it is suspected that oxidative stress triggers cnidarian bleaching, i.e., the expulsion of zooxanthellae from the animal host, responsible for symbiotic cnidarian mass mortality worldwide. This study therefore investigates catalase antioxidant enzymes and their role in bleaching of the temperate symbiotic sea anemone Anemonia viridis. Using specific separation of animal tissues (ectoderm and endoderm) from the symbionts (zooxanthellae), spectrophotometric assays and native PAGE revealed both tissue-specific and activity pattern distribution of two catalase electrophoretypes, E1 and E2. E1, expressed in all three tissues, presents high sensitivity to the catalase inhibitor aminotriazole (ATZ) and elevated temperatures. The ectodermal E1 form is responsible for 67% of total catalase activity. The E2 form, expressed only within zooxanthellae and their host endodermal cells, displays low sensitivity to ATZ and relative thermostability. We further cloned an ectodermal catalase, which shares 68% identity with mammalian monofunctional catalases. Last, 6 days of exposure of whole sea anemones to ATZ (0.5 mM) led to effective catalase inhibition and initiated symbiont expulsion. This demonstrates the crucial role of this enzyme in cnidarian bleaching, a phenomenon responsible for worldwide climate-change-induced mass mortalities, with catastrophic consequences for marine biodiversity.
Myrmecophilic food body production in the understorey tree, Ryparosa kurrangii (Achariaceae), a rare Australian rainforest taxon.	Plant food bodies are rarely observed in the field, because of continual harvesting, and are often first documented on isolated glasshouse plants. Little is known about the genus Ryparosa (Achariaceae), and the appearance of outgrowths on leaves and stems of glasshouse-raised R. kurrangii seedlings suggested that the species may produce food bodies. Detailed macroimaging and histological techniques were used to characterize chemomorphological variation in food body material gathered from glasshouse plants. Two distinct types of food body were observed. Multicellular pearl bodies derived from epidermal and mesophyll tissue were produced on young leaves and stems, and contained lipids and glycogen-like carbohydrates. A unique form of lipid-rich multicellular food body that 'opens' during development was found exclusively on mature plant tissue. A filament network was associated with food body lipid droplets. This is the first detailed documentation of food body production in an understorey genus adapted to low light conditions. We suggest that the distinctive spatial deployment of Ryparosa food rewards, and the ants attracted to them, may be invaluable for keeping long-lived leaves free from epiphyllous communities.
First report on polysaccharides of Asterochloris and their potential role in the lichen symbiosis.	A structural study of the carbohydrates from the aposymbiotically cultured Asterochloris sp., the algal symbiont of the lichen Cladina confusa was carried out for the first time. A xylorhamnogalactofuranan was purified and was predominated by (1-->3)-linked galactofuranosyl units with sidechains in position 6 on approximately 6.4% of the units. The sidechains have galactofuranosyl units 5-O and 6-O-substituted, as well rhamnopyranosyl units 2-O, 3-O and 2,3-di-O-substituted. Xylose was detected only as nonreducing end units, together with galactofuranosyl units. Amylose and a beta-(1-->4)-xylan were also present. These polysaccharides have not been found in the symbiotic thallus of C. confusa, which contained only glucans, galactomannoglucan and galactoglucomannan. A potential role of these carbohydrates in lichen recognition proccess is also discussed.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis is accompanied by local and systemic alterations in gene expression and an increase in disease resistance in the shoots.	In natural ecosystems, the roots of many plants exist in association with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, and the resulting symbiosis has profound effects on the plant. The most frequently documented response is an increase in phosphorus nutrition; however, other effects have been noted, including increased resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses. Here we used a 16,000-feature oligonucleotide array and real-time quantitative RT-PCR to explore transcriptional changes triggered in Medicago truncatula roots and shoots as a result of AM symbiosis. By controlling the experimental conditions, phosphorus-related effects were minimized, and both local and systemic transcriptional responses to the AM fungus were revealed. The transcriptional response of the roots and shoots differed in both the magnitude of gene induction and the predicted functional categories of the mycorrhiza-regulated genes. In the roots, genes regulated in response to three different AM fungi were identified, and, through split-root experiments, an additional layer of regulation, in the colonized or non-colonized sections of the mycorrhizal root system, was uncovered. Transcript profiles of the shoots of mycorrhizal plants indicated the systemic induction of many genes predicted to be involved in stress or defense responses, and suggested that mycorrhizal plants might display enhanced disease resistance. Experimental evidence supports this prediction, and mycorrhizal M. truncatula plants showed increased resistance to a virulent bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas campestris. Thus, the symbiosis is accompanied by a complex pattern of local and systemic changes in gene expression, including the induction of a functional defense response.
Molecular and morphological characterization of the association between bacterial endosymbionts and the marine nematode Astomonema sp. from the Bahamas.	Marine nematode worms without a mouth or functional gut are found worldwide in intertidal sandflats, deep-sea muds and methane-rich pock marks, and morphological studies show that they are associated with endosymbiotic bacteria. While it has been hypothesized that the symbionts are chemoautotrophic sulfur oxidizers, to date nothing is known about the phylogeny or function of endosymbionts from marine nematodes. In this study, we characterized the association between bacterial endosymbionts and the marine nematode Astomonema sp. from coral reef sediments in the Bahamas. Phylogenetic analysis of the host based on its 18S rRNA gene showed that Astomonema sp. is most closely related to non-symbiotic nematodes of the families Linhomoeidae and Axonolaimidae and is not closely related to marine stilbonematinid nematodes with ectosymbiotic sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. In contrast, phylogenetic analyses of the symbionts of Astomonema sp. using comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis revealed that these are closely related to the stilbonematinid ectosymbionts (95-96% sequence similarity) as well as to the sulfur-oxidizing endosymbionts from gutless marine oligochaetes. The closest free-living relatives of these gammaproteobacterial symbionts are sulfur-oxidizing bacteria from the family Chromatiaceae. Transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that the bacterial symbionts completely fill the gut lumen of Astomonema sp., suggesting that these are their main source of nutrition. The close phylogenetic relationship of the Astomonema sp. symbionts to known sulfur-oxidizing bacteria as well as the presence of the aprA gene, typically found in sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, indicates that the Astomonema sp. symbionts use reduced sulfur compounds as an energy source to provide their hosts with nutrition.
Variations in organic acid exudation and aluminum resistance among arbuscular mycorrhizal species colonizing Liriodendron tulipifera.	Aluminum (Al) in acidic soils is toxic to plants, affecting growth, water uptake and nutrient assimilation. Aluminum resistance in some plant species and genotypes has been ascribed to organic acid exudation from roots and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal symbiosis. We investigated variation among several AM species in altering Al resistance of Liriodendron tulipifera L. and evaluated AM influence on organic acid production as a potential Al resistance mechanism. Growth, nutritional responses and rhizosphere organic acid profiles were assessed for seedlings in association with Acaulospora morrowiae Spain & Schenck, Glomus claroideum Schenck & Smith, G. clarum Nicol. & Schenck or Paraglomus brasilianum (Spain & Miranda) Morton & Redecker and non-mycorrhizal seedlings exposed to 0, 50 or 200 microM Al. Plants colonized by G. clarum had the greatest biomass, least Al and most phosphorus (P) in leaf tissues and exuded malate and citrate into the rhizosphere at rates that complexed 99% of delivered Al in all treatments. Other AM fungi did not confer significant Al resistance on L. tulipifera and did not maintain citrate and malate exudation in response to Al exposure. This study illustrates functional diversity among AM fungal species in conferred Al resistance to plants and highlights the potential importance of fungal diversity in ecosystem responses to environmental stresses.
Forest succession suppressed by an introduced plant-fungal symbiosis.	Microbial symbionts can affect plant nutrition, defensive chemistry, and biodiversity. Here we test the hypothesis that symbionts alter the speed and direction of plant succession in communities that are shifting from grasslands to forests. A widespread C3 grass introduced to the United States, Lolium arundinaceum (tall fescue), hosts a fungal endophyte that is toxic to herbivores. In replicated experimental grasslands, the presence of the endophyte in tall fescue reduced tree abundance and size, altered tree composition, and slowed plant species turnover. In addition, consumption of tree seedlings by voles (Microtus spp.) was 65% higher in plots with the endophyte at the one grassland site where these data were collected. Despite its negligible contribution to community biomass, a microbial symbiont suppressed tree establishment, posing an important constraint on the natural transition from grasslands to forests.
A simple model of host-parasite evolutionary relationships. Parasitism: compromise or conflict?	The evolutionary biology of host-parasite relationships are considered here using a simple game-theory model in which hosts play against parasite and vice versa. In this model, the players can choose between two strategies (aggressive or not aggressive) and the utility of the game is envisaged in terms of fitness and selective costs. The game solutions suggest that the two types of confrontation are encountered in symbiotic relationships and thus constitute two Evolutionary Stable Strategies (ESS). These observations lead us to discuss: (i) the status of different kinds of symbiotic relationships (i.e. parasitoidism; parasitism, commensalism and mutualism) related to selective costs and (ii) the position of coevolution in this game theory context.
Novel plant and fungal AGP-like proteins in the Medicago truncatula-Glomus intraradices arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis.	The ability of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi to colonise the root apoplast, and in coordination with the plant develop specialised plant-fungal interfaces, is key to successful symbioses. The availability of expressed sequence tags (EST) of the model legume, Medicago truncatula, and AM fungus, Glomus intraradices, permits identification of genes required for development of symbiotic interfaces. The M. truncatula EST database was searched to identify cell surface arabinogalactan-proteins (AGPs) expressed in mycorrhizal roots. Candidate genes were characterised and gene expression tested using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and promoter:reporter gene fusions. Genes encoding one plant AGP and three AGP-like (AGL) proteins (from G. intraradices) were identified. AGL proteins encoded by two AGL genes from G. intraradices (GiAGLs) represent a new structural class of AGPs not found in non-AM fungi or plants. Two GiAGLs differ from plant AGPs by containing charged repeats. Structural modelling shows that GiAGL1 can form a polyproline II helix with separate positively and negatively charged faces, whereas GiAGL3 is charged on all three faces. The unique structural properties of the newly discovered AGLs suggests that they could assist the formation of symbiotic interfaces through self-assembly and interactions with plant cell surfaces.
Pollination biology of Jacaranda oxyphylla with an emphasis on staminode function.	Bignoniaceae is a Neotropical family with >100 genera, only two of which, Jacaranda and Digomphia, have a developed staminode. Jacaranda oxyphylla, whose flowers possess a conspicuous glandular staminode, is a zoophilous cerrado species. Here, the composition of the secretion of the glandular trichome and the influence of the staminode on the pollination biology and reproductive success of J. oxyphylla were studied.
Glomus intraradices induces changes in root system architecture of rice independently of common symbiosis signaling.	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonize the roots of most monocotyledons and dicotyledons despite their different root architecture and cell patterning. Among the cereal hosts of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Oryza sativa (rice) possesses a peculiar root system composed of three different types of roots: crown roots; large lateral roots; and fine lateral roots. Characteristic is the constitutive formation of aerenchyma in crown roots and large lateral roots and the absence of cortex from fine lateral roots. Here, we assessed the distribution of colonization by Glomus intraradices within this root system and determined its effect on root system architecture. Large lateral roots are preferentially colonized, and fine lateral roots are immune to arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization. Fungal preference for large lateral roots also occurred in sym mutants that block colonization of the root beyond rhizodermal penetration. Initiation of large lateral roots is significantly induced by G. intraradices colonization and does not require a functional common symbiosis signaling pathway from which some components are known to be needed for symbiosis-mediated lateral root induction in Medicago truncatula. Our results suggest variation of symbiotic properties among the different rice root-types and induction of the preferred tissue by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Furthermore, signaling for arbuscular mycorrhizal-elicited alterations of the root system differs between rice and M. truncatula.
Coordinated regulation of the metabolome and lipidome at the host-microbial interface.	The creative use of gnotobiotic animals, coupled with the development of modern metagenomic sequencing platforms and metabolomic profiling of biospecimens, has bestowed new insight into the remarkably intricate interface between the host mammal and its resident microbiota. As mutual benefactors, each partner exhibits evidence of adaptation: the host provides a hospitable habitat, giving consideration to its own species of origin, diet, genotype, geographical location, presence or absence of disease, and use of medications; the microbiota, in turn, configures its constituency, collective genome (microbiome), transcriptome, and metabolome to optimally suit its ecological niche. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms through which the gut microbiota and its host collaborate to regulate lipid metabolism, thereby influencing the metabolic response to nutrient intake and ultimately, the development of obesity and associated diseases such as lipotoxicity. These studies therefore demonstrate that the gut microbiota is an "environmental" influence whose synergistic interdependence with its host strongly suggests that we are in fact "supraorganisms."
Characterizing variation in mycorrhiza effect among diverse plant varieties.	Exploitation of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi may be an important approach for development of reduced-input agriculture. We discuss the use of linear models to analyze variation in mycorrhiza response among diverse plant varieties in order to assess the value of mycorrhizas. Our approach allows elimination of variation linked to differences in plant performance in the absence of mycorrhizas and the selection of plant lines that might harbor genetic variation of use to improve the mycorrhizal symbiosis in agriculture. We illustrate our approach by applying it to previously published and to novel data. We suggest that in dealing with a relative trait such as mycorrhiza effect, the choice of measure used to quantify the trait greatly affects interpretation. In the plant populations under consideration, we find evidence for a greater potential to increase mycorrhiza benefit than previously suggested.
Phenotypic variance predicts symbiont population densities in corals: a modeling approach.	We test whether the phenotypic variance of symbionts (Symbiodinium) in corals is closely related with the capacity of corals to acclimatize to increasing seawater temperatures. Moreover, we assess whether more specialist symbionts will increase within coral hosts under ocean warming. The present study is only applicable to those corals that naturally have the capacity to support more than one type of Symbiodinium within the lifetime of a colony; for example, Montastraea annularis and Montastraea faveolata.
Early recognition in the Rhizobium meliloti-alfalfa symbiosis: root exudate factor stimulates root adsorption of homologous rhizobia.	Adsorption of Rhizobium meliloti to alfalfa roots before their infection and nodule formation shows the specificity of the symbiotic association (G. Caetano-Anolls and G. Favelukes, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 52:377-382, 1986). The time course of specific adsorption of R. meliloti (10(3) to 10(4) cells per ml) to roots shows an initial lag period of 3 h, suggesting that either or both symbionts must become conditioned for the adsorption process. Preincubation of R. meliloti L5-30 for 3 h with dialyzed alfalfa root exudate (RE) markedly increased early adsorption of rhizobia to alfalfa roots. The activity in RE was linked to a nondialyzable, thermolabile, trypsin-sensitive factor(s), very different from the root-exuded flavonoid compounds also involved in early Rhizobium-legume interactions. The lack of activity in the RE from plants grown in 5 mM NO3- suggested its negative regulation by the nitrogen nutritional status of the plant. Preincubation of R. meliloti with heterologous clover RE did not stimulate adsorption of rhizobial cells to roots. A short pretreatment of RE with homologous (but not heterologous) strains eliminated the stimulatory activity from solution. The stimulation of adsorption of R. meliloti to alfalfa roots was strongly dependent on the growth phase of the rhizobia, being greater at the late exponential stage. Nevertheless, the capacity of R. meliloti L5-30 to eliminate from solution the stimulatory activity in RE appeared to be constitutive in the rhizobia. The low concentration of rhizobial cells used in these experiments was critical to detect the stimulation of adsorption. The early interaction of spontaneously released alfalfa root macromolecular factor(s) and free-living R. meliloti, which shows the specificity and regulatory properties characteristic of infection and nodulation, would be an initial recognition event in the rhizosphere which triggers the process of symbiotic association.
Missing and forbidden links in mutualistic networks.	Ecological networks are complexes of interacting species, but not all potential links among species are realized. Unobserved links are either missing or forbidden. Missing links exist, but require more sampling or alternative ways of detection to be verified. Forbidden links remain unobservable, irrespective of sampling effort. They are caused by linkage constraints. We studied one Arctic pollination network and two Mediterranean seed-dispersal networks. In the first, for example, we recorded flower-visit links for one full season, arranged data in an interaction matrix and got a connectance C of 15 per cent. Interaction accumulation curves documented our sampling of interactions through observation of visits to be robust. Then, we included data on pollen from the body surface of flower visitors as an additional link 'currency'. This resulted in 98 new links, missing from the visitation data. Thus, the combined visit-pollen matrix got an increased C of 20 per cent. For the three networks, C ranged from 20 to 52 per cent, and thus the percentage of unobserved links (100 - C) was 48 to 80 per cent; these were assumed forbidden because of linkage constraints and not missing because of under-sampling. Phenological uncoupling (i.e. non-overlapping phenophases between interacting mutualists) is one kind of constraint, and it explained 22 to 28 per cent of all possible, but unobserved links. Increasing phenophase overlap between species increased link probability, but extensive overlaps were required to achieve a high probability. Other kinds of constraint, such as size mismatch and accessibility limitations, are briefly addressed.
Mutualism between tree shrews and pitcher plants: perspectives and avenues for future research.	Three species of Nepenthes pitcher plants from Borneo engage in a mutualistic interaction with mountain tree shrews, the basis of which is the exchange of nutritional resources. The plants produce modified "toilet pitchers" that produce copious amounts of exudates, the latter serving as a food source for tree shrews. The exudates are only accessible to the tree shrews when they position their hindquarters over the pitcher orifice. Tree shrews mark valuable resources with faeces and regularly defecate into the pitchers when they visit them to feed. Faeces represent a valuable source of nitrogen for these Nepenthes species, but there are many facets of the mutualism that are yet to be investigated. These include, but are not limited to, seasonal variation in exudate production rates by the plants, behavioral ecology of visiting tree shrews, and the mechanism by which the plants signal to tree shrews that their pitchers represent a food source. Further research into this extraordinary animal-plant interaction is required to gain a better understanding of the benefits to the participating species.
Mechanisms promoting the long-term persistence of a Wolbachia infection in a laboratory-adapted population of Drosophila melanogaster.	Intracellular bacteria of the genus Wolbachia are widespread endosymbionts across diverse insect taxa. Despite this prevalence, our understanding of how Wolbachia persists within populations is not well understood. Cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI) appears to be an important phenotype maintaining Wolbachia in many insects, but it is believed to be too weak to maintain Wolbachia in Drosophila melanogaster, suggesting that Wolbachia must also have other effects on this species. Here we estimate the net selective effect of Wolbachia on its host in a laboratory-adapted population of D. melanogaster, to determine the mechanisms leading to its persistence in the laboratory environment. We found i) no significant effects of Wolbachia infection on female egg-to-adult survival or adult fitness, ii) no reduced juvenile survival in males, iii) substantial levels of CI, and iv) a vertical transmission rate of Wolbachia higher than 99%. The fitness of cured females was, however, severely reduced (a decline of 37%) due to CI in offspring. Taken together these findings indicate that Wolbachia is maintained in our laboratory environment due to a combination of a nearly perfect transmission rate and substantial CI. Our results show that there would be strong selection against females losing their infection and producing progeny free from Wolbachia.
Measurement of 13C and 15N isotope labeling by gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry to study amino acid fluxes in a plant-microbe symbiotic association.	We have developed a method based on a double labeling with stable isotopes and gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/C/IRMS) analyses to study amino acid exchange in a symbiotic plant-microbe association. Isotopic precision was studied for 21 standards including 15 amino acid derivatives, three N-protected amino acid methyl esters, three amines and one international standard. High correlations were observed between the (13)C and (15)N values obtained by GC/C/IRMS and those obtained by an elemental analyzer (EA) coupled to an isotope ratio mass spectrometer (R(2) = 0.9868 and 0.9992, respectively). The mean precision measured was 0.04 for (13)C and 0.28 for (15)N (n = 15). This method was applied in vivo to the symbiotic relationship between alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) and N(2)-fixing bacteria. Plants were simultaneously labeled over 10 days with (13)C-depleted CO(2) ((12)CO(2)), which was assimilated through photosynthesis by leaves, and (15)N(2) fixed via nodules. Subsequently, the C and N isotope compositions (i.e. (13)C and (15)N) of free amino acids were analyzed in leaves and nodules by GC/C/IRMS. The method revealed the pattern of C and N exchange between leaves and nodules, highlighting that -aminobutanoic acid and glycine may represent an important form of C transport from leaves to the nodules. The results confirmed the validity, reliability and accuracy of the method for assessing C and N fluxes between plants and symbiotic bacteria and support the use of this technique in a broad range of metabolic and fluxomic studies.
Intracellular invasion of green algae in a salamander host.	The association between embryos of the spotted salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) and green algae ("Oophila amblystomatis" Lamber ex Printz) has been considered an ectosymbiotic mutualism. We show here, however, that this symbiosis is more intimate than previously reported. A combination of imaging and algal 18S rDNA amplification reveals algal invasion of embryonic salamander tissues and cells during development. Algal cells are detectable from embryonic and larval Stages 26-44 through chlorophyll autofluorescence and algal 18S rDNA amplification. Algal cell ultrastructure indicates both degradation and putative encystment during the process of tissue and cellular invasion. Fewer algal cells were detected in later-stage larvae through FISH, suggesting that the decline in autofluorescent cells is primarily due to algal cell death within the host. However, early embryonic egg capsules also contained encysted algal cells on the inner capsule wall, and algal 18S rDNA was amplified from adult reproductive tracts, consistent with oviductal transmission of algae from one salamander generation to the next. The invasion of algae into salamander host tissues and cells represents a unique association between a vertebrate and a eukaryotic alga, with implications for research into cell-cell recognition, possible exchange of metabolites or DNA, and potential congruence between host and symbiont population structures.
LBP/BPI proteins and their relatives: conservation over evolution and roles in mutualism.	LBP [LPS (lipopolysaccharide)-binding protein] and BPI (bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein) are components of the immune system that have been principally studied in mammals for their involvement in defence against bacterial pathogens. These proteins share a basic architecture and residues involved in LPS binding. Putative orthologues, i.e. proteins encoded by similar genes that diverged from a common ancestor, have been found in a number of non-mammalian vertebrate species and several non-vertebrates. Similar to other aspects of immunity, such as the activity of Toll-like receptors and NOD (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain) proteins, analysis of the conservation of LBPs and BPIs in the invertebrates promises to provide insight into features essential to the form and function of these molecules. This review considers state-of-the-art knowledge in the diversity of the LBP/BPI proteins across the eukaryotes and also considers their role in mutualistic symbioses. Recent studies of the LBPs and BPIs in an invertebrate model of beneficial associations, the Hawaiian bobtail squid Euprymna scolopes' alliance with the marine luminous bacterium Vibrio fischeri, are discussed as an example of the use of non-vertebrate models for the study of LBPs and BPIs.
Cellular tropism, population dynamics, host range and taxonomic status of an aphid secondary symbiont, SMLS (Sitobion miscanthi L type symbiont).	SMLS (Sitobion miscanthi L type symbiont) is a newly reported aphid secondary symbiont. Phylogenetic evidence from molecular markers indicates that SMLS belongs to the Rickettsiaceae and has a sibling relationship with Orientia tsutsugamushi. A comparative analysis of coxA nucleotide sequences further supports recognition of SMLS as a new genus in the Rickettsiaceae. In situ hybridization reveals that SMLS is housed in both sheath cells and secondary bacteriocytes and it is also detected in aphid hemolymph. The population dynamics of SMLS differ from those of Buchnera aphidicola and titer levels of SMLS increase in older aphids. A survey of 13 other aphids reveals that SMLS only occurs in wheat-associated species.
Specificity is rarely absolute in coral-algal symbiosis: implications for coral response to climate change.	Some reef-building corals have been shown to respond to environmental change by shifting the composition of their algal symbiont (genus Symbiodinium) communities. These shifts have been proposed as a potential mechanism by which corals might survive climate stressors, such as increased temperatures. Conventional molecular methods suggest this adaptive capacity may not be widespread because few (25%) coral species have been found to associate with multiple Symbiodinium clades. However, these methods can fail to detect low abundance symbionts (typically less than 10-20% of the total algal symbiont community). To determine whether additional Symbiodinium clades are present, but are not detected using conventional techniques, we applied a high-resolution, real-time PCR assay to survey Symbiodinium (in clades A-D) from 39 species of phylogenetically and geographically diverse scleractinian corals. This survey included 26 coral species thought to be restricted to hosting a single Symbiodinium clade ('symbiotic specialists'). We detected at least two Symbiodinium clades (C and D) in at least one sample of all 39 coral species tested; all four Symbiodinium clades were detected in over half (54%) of the 26 symbiotic specialist coral species. Furthermore, on average, 68 per cent of all sampled colonies within a given coral species hosted two or more symbiont clades. We conclude that the ability to associate with multiple symbiont clades is common in scleractinian (stony) corals, and that, in coral-algal symbiosis, 'specificity' and 'flexibility' are relative terms: specificity is rarely absolute. The potential for reef corals to adapt or acclimatize to environmental change via symbiont community shifts may therefore be more phylogenetically widespread than has previously been assumed.
Rhizobium-legume symbiosis shares an exocytotic pathway required for arbuscule formation.	Endosymbiotic interactions are characterized by the formation of specialized membrane compartments, by the host in which the microbes are hosted, in an intracellular manner. Two well-studied examples, which are of major agricultural and ecological importance, are the widespread arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis. In both symbioses, the specialized host membrane that surrounds the microbes forms a symbiotic interface, which facilitates the exchange of, for example, nutrients in a controlled manner and, therefore, forms the heart of endosymbiosis. Despite their key importance, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the formation of these membrane interfaces are largely unknown. Recent studies strongly suggest that the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis coopted a signaling pathway, including receptor, from the more ancient arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis to form a symbiotic interface. Here, we show that two highly homologous exocytotic vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs) are required for formation of the symbiotic membrane interface in both interactions. Silencing of these Medicago VAMP72 genes has a minor effect on nonsymbiotic plant development and nodule formation. However, it blocks symbiosome as well as arbuscule formation, whereas root colonization by the microbes is not affected. Identification of these VAMP72s as common symbiotic regulators in exocytotic vesicle trafficking suggests that the ancient exocytotic pathway forming the periarbuscular membrane compartment has also been coopted in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.
There are many ways to be a mutualist: endophytic fungus reduces plant survival but increases population growth.	One of the challenges to quantifying the costs and benefits of symbiosis is that symbionts can influence different components of host fitness. To improve understanding of the ecology of inherited symbionts, we developed general theory for a perennial host-hereditary symbiont interaction, in which symbionts can have independent and potentially opposing effects on host regeneration and survival. The model showed that negative effects on one component of fitness may be outweighed by positive effects on another, leading to a net positive impact of symbiosis on population growth. Model predictions depended on the availability of suitable patches, which influenced the relative contributions of survival vs. regeneration to host fitness. We then used experimental symbiont removal to quantify effects of a hereditary, fungal endophyte on a grass host. Endophyte presence strongly reduced host survival but increased regeneration. Application of the model revealed that negative effects on plant survival were overwhelmed by beneficial effects on regeneration, resulting in stable endophyte persistence at 100% frequency, consistent with field observations. Our work demonstrates the utility of a demographic perspective for predicting the dynamics of symbioses and supports the hypothesis that symbionts function as mutualists when host and symbiont fitness are coupled through vertical transmission.
PGRP-LB is a maternally transmitted immune milk protein that influences symbiosis and parasitism in tsetse's offspring.	Beneficial microbe functions range from host dietary supplementation to development and maintenance of host immune system. In mammals, newborn progeny are quickly colonized with a symbiotic fauna that is provisioned in mother's milk and that closely resembles that of the parent. Tsetse fly (Diptera: Glossinidae) also depends on the obligate symbiont Wigglesworthia for nutritional supplementation, optimal fecundity, and immune system development. Tsetse progeny develop one at a time in an intrauterine environment and receive nourishment and symbionts in mother's milk. We show that the host Peptidoglycan Recognition Protein (PGRP-LB) is expressed only in adults and is a major component of the milk that nourishes the developing progeny. The amidase activity associated with PGRP-LB may scavenge the symbiotic peptidoglycan and prevent the induction of tsetse's Immune Deficiency pathway that otherwise can damage the symbionts. Reduction of PGRP-LB experimentally diminishes female fecundity and damages Wigglesworthia in the milk through induction of antimicrobial peptides, including Attacin. Larvae that receive less maternal PGRP-LB give rise to adults with fewer Wigglesworthia and hyperimmune responses. Such adults also suffer dysregulated immunity, as indicated by the presence of higher trypanosome densities in parasitized adults. We show that recPGRP-LB has antimicrobial and antitrypanosomal activities that may regulate symbiosis and impact immunity. Thus, PGRP-LB plays a pivotal role in tsetse's fitness by protecting symbiosis against host-inflicted damage during development and by controlling parasite infections in adults that can otherwise reduce host fecundity.
The relationship between endophyte transition and plant species coexistence.	The survival possibilities of terrestrial plant species are determined by their competitive abilities. One factor that affects competitive ability is the community of microorganisms that lives in association with the plants. Microorganisms affect the competitive dominance among plants by means of their metabolites. In this paper, we study the multiple plant species coexistence mediated by interactions with endophytes (fungi). The population dynamics are described by a revised lottery competition model for multiple plant species, each of which is divided into two classes: plants with endophytes (denoted EP) and plants without endophytes (NEP). The model includes the transition of seeds from EP to NEP. We show multiple species of plants cannot coexist in a steady state if this transition is density independent, but can coexist in a steady state if this transition is an increasing function of population density.
Ecology and evolution of symbiosis in metapopulations.	We present a model for symbionts in plant host metapopulation. Symbionts are assumed not only to form a systemic infection throughout the host and pass into the host seeds, but also to reproduce and infect new plants by spores. Thus, we study a metapopulation of qualitatively identical patches coupled through seeds and spores dispersal. Symbionts that are only vertically inherited cannot persist in such a uniform environment if they lower the host's fitness. They have to be beneficial in order to coexist with the host if they are not perfectly transmitted to the seeds; but evolution selects for 100% fidelity of infection inheritance. In this model we want to see how mixed strategies (both vertical and horizontal infection) affect the coexistence of uninfected and infected plants at equilibrium; also, what would evolution do for the host, for the symbionts and for their association. We present a detailed classification of the possible equilibria with examples. The stability of the steady states is rigorously proved for the first time in a metapopulation set-up.
Fire ants protect mealybugs against their natural enemies by utilizing the leaf shelters constructed by the leaf roller Sylepta derogata.	The importance of mutualism is receiving more attention in community ecology. In this study, the fire ant Solenopsis invicta was found to take advantage of the shelters constructed by the leaf roller Sylepta derogata to protect mealybugs (Phenacoccus solenopsis) against their natural enemies. This protective effect of fire ant tending on the survival of mealybugs in shelters was observed when enemies and leaf rollers were simultaneously present. Specifically, fire ants moved the mealybugs inside the shelters produced by S. derogata on enemy-infested plants. Compared with that in plants without ants, the survival of mealybugs in shelters in the presence of natural enemies in plants with ants markedly improved. Both the protection of ants and the shelters provided by leaf rollers did not affect the survival of mealybugs in the absence of enemies in plants. Ants and leaf rollers significantly improved the survival of mealybugs in predator-infested plants, whereas no such improvement was observed in parasitoid-infested ones.
Mycorrhizal symbiosis: ancient signalling mechanisms co-opted.	Mycorrhizal root endosymbiosis is an ancient property of land plants. Two parallel studies now provide novel insight into the mechanism driving this interaction and how it is used by other filamentous microbes like pathogenic oomycetes.
High temporal variability in commensal Escherichia coli strain communities of a herbivorous marsupial.	Although Escherichia coli is an important model organism for bacterial research, few studies have explored the nature of temporal variation in E.coli strains within the intestinal tracts of host individuals. In this study the E.coli strains of 54 mountain brushtail possums were sampled on four occasions during a year. This allowed temporal changes to be quantified both at the host population level and within individuals. Escherichia coli strains were identified using a combination of rep-PCR profiles from two primers (CGG and ERIC) and phylogenetic group assigned by quadruplex PCR. The study revealed considerable changes in community structure within individuals among all time periods. In fact, temporal variation within individuals accounted for more of the variation in E.coli community structure than differences between animals. In contrast to the within-host dynamics, there were no significant differences among the time periods at the host population level. It was also found that there was no effect of host age or sex on strain community structure within host individuals. These findings highlight the importance of temporal variation in the ecology of E.coli, while the methods applied in this study may serve as a foundation for further work in this area. 
Ploidy-specific symbiotic interactions: divergence of mycorrhizal fungi between cytotypes of the Gymnadenia conopsea group (Orchidaceae).	Polyploidy is widely recognized as a major mechanism of sympatric speciation in plants, yet little is known about its effects on interactions with other organisms. Mycorrhizal fungi are among the most common plant symbionts and play an important role in plant nutrient supply. It remains to be understood whether mycorrhizal associations of ploidy-variable plants can be ploidy-specific. We examined mycorrhizal associations in three cytotypes (2x, 3x, 4x) of the Gymnadenia conopsea group (Orchidaceae), involving G.conopsea s.s. and G.densiflora, at different spatial scales and during different ontogenetic stages. We analysed: adults from mixed- and single-ploidy populations at a regional scale; closely spaced adults within a mixed-ploidy site; and mycorrhizal seedlings. All Gymnadenia cytotypes associated mainly with saprotrophic Tulasnellaceae (Basidiomycota). Nonetheless, both adults and seedlings of diploids and their autotetraploid derivatives significantly differed in the identity of their mycorrhizal symbionts. Interploidy segregation of mycorrhizal symbionts was most pronounced within a site with closely spaced adults. This study provides the first evidence that polyploidization of a plant species can be associated with a shift in mycorrhizal symbionts. This divergence may contribute to niche partitioning and facilitate establishment and co-existence of different cytotypes. 
Ectopic expression of miR160 results in auxin hypersensitivity, cytokinin hyposensitivity, and inhibition of symbiotic nodule development in soybean.	Symbiotic root nodules in leguminous plants result from interaction between the plant and nitrogen-fixing rhizobia bacteria. There are two major types of legume nodules, determinate and indeterminate. Determinate nodules do not have a persistent meristem, while indeterminate nodules have a persistent meristem. Auxin is thought to play a role in the development of both these types of nodules. However, inhibition of rootward auxin transport at the site of nodule initiation is crucial for the development of indeterminate nodules but not determinate nodules. Using the synthetic auxin-responsive DR5 promoter in soybean (Glycine max), we show that there is relatively low auxin activity during determinate nodule initiation and that it is restricted to the nodule periphery subsequently during development. To examine if and what role auxin plays in determinate nodule development, we generated soybean composite plants with altered sensitivity to auxin. We overexpressed microRNA393 to silence the auxin receptor gene family, and these roots were hyposensitive to auxin. These roots nodulated normally, suggesting that only minimal/reduced auxin signaling is required for determinate nodule development. We overexpressed microRNA160 to silence a set of repressor auxin response factor transcription factors, and these roots were hypersensitive to auxin. These roots were not impaired in epidermal responses to rhizobia but had significantly reduced nodule primordium formation, suggesting that auxin hypersensitivity inhibits nodule development. These roots were also hyposensitive to cytokinin and had attenuated expression of key nodulation-associated transcription factors known to be regulated by cytokinin. We propose a regulatory feedback loop involving auxin and cytokinin during nodulation. 
Thermal threshold and sensitivity of the only symbiotic Mediterranean gorgonian Eunicella singularis by morphometric and genotypic analyses.	The only symbiotic Mediterranean gorgonian, Eunicella singularis, has faced several mortality events connected to abnormal high temperatures. Since thermotolerance data remain scarce, heat-induced necrosis was monitored in aquarium by morphometric analysis. Gorgonian tips were sampled at two sites: Medes (Spain) and Riou (France) Islands, and at two depths: -15 m and-35 m. Although coming from contrasting thermal regimes, seawater above 28 C led to rapid and complete tissue necrosis for all four populations. However, at 27 C, the time length leading to 50% tissue necrosis allowed us to classify samples within three classes of thermal sensitivity. Irrespectively of the depth, Medes specimens were either very sensitive or resistant, while Riou fragments presented a medium sensitivity. Microsatellite analysis revealed that host and symbiont were genetically differentiated between sites, but not between depths. Finally, these genetic differentiations were not directly correlated to a specific thermal sensitivity whose molecular bases remain to be discovered.
Repeated evolution of fungal cultivar specificity in independently evolved ant-plant-fungus symbioses.	Some tropical plant species possess hollow structures (domatia) occupied by ants that protect the plant and in some cases also provide it with nutrients. Most plant-ants tend patches of chaetothyrialean fungi within domatia. In a few systems it has been shown that the ants manure the fungal patches and use them as a food source, indicating agricultural practices. However, the identity of these fungi has been investigated only in a few samples. To examine the specificity and constancy of ant-plant-fungus interactions we characterised the content of fungal patches in an extensive sampling of three ant-plant symbioses (Petalomyrmex phylax/Leonardoxa africana subsp. africana, Aphomomyrmex afer/Leonardoxa africana subsp. letouzeyi and Tetraponera aethiops/Barteria fistulosa) by sequencing the Internal Transcribed Spacers of ribosomal DNA. For each system the content of fungal patches was constant over individuals and populations. Each symbiosis was associated with a specific, dominant, primary fungal taxon, and to a lesser extent, with one or two specific secondary taxa, all of the order Chaetothyriales. A single fungal patch sometimes contained both a primary and a secondary taxon. In one system, two founding queens were found with the primary fungal taxon only, one that was shown in a previous study to be consumed preferentially. Because the different ant-plant symbioses studied have evolved independently, the high specificity and constancy we observed in the composition of the fungal patches have evolved repeatedly. Specificity and constancy also characterize other cases of agriculture by insects. 
From cooperation to combat: adverse effect of thermal stress in a symbiotic coral-crustacean community.	Although mutualisms are ubiquitous in nature, our understanding of the potential impacts of climate change on these important ecological interactions is deficient. Here, we report on a thermal stress-related shift from cooperation to antagonism between members of a mutualistic coral-dwelling community. Increased mortality of coral-defending crustacean symbionts Trapezia cymodoce (coral crab) and Alpheus lottini (snapping shrimp) was observed in response to experimentally elevated temperatures and reduced coral-host (Pocillopora damicornis) condition. However, strong differential numerical effects occurred among crustaceans as a function of species and sex, with shrimp (75%), and female crabs (55%), exhibiting the fastest and greatest declines in numbers. These declines were due to forceful eviction from the coral-host by male crabs. Furthermore, surviving female crabs were impacted by a dramatic decline (85%) in egg production, which could have deleterious consequences for population sustainability. Our results suggest that elevated temperature switches the fundamental nature of this interaction from cooperation to competition, leading to asymmetrical effects on species and/or sexes. Our study illustrates the importance of evaluating not only individual responses to climate change, but also potentially fragile interactions within and among susceptible species.
Genome-wide investigation and expression analysis suggest diverse roles and genetic redundancy of Pht1 family genes in response to Pi deficiency in tomato.	Phosphorus (P) deficiency is one of the major nutrient stresses limiting plant growth. The uptake of P by plants is well considered to be mediated by a number of high-affinity phosphate (Pi) transporters belonging to the Pht1 family. Although the Pht1 genes have been extensively identified in several plant species, there is a lack of systematic analysis of the Pht1 gene family in any solanaceous species thus far.
Specialization-generalization trade-off in a Bradyrhizobium symbiosis with wild legume hosts.	Specialized interactions help structure communities, but persistence of specialized organisms is puzzling because a generalist can occupy more environments and partake in more beneficial interactions. The "Jack-of-all-trades is a master of none" hypothesis asserts that specialists persist because the fitness of a generalist utilizing a particular habitat is lower than that of a specialist adapted to that habitat. Yet, there are many reasons to expect that mutualists will generalize on partners.Plant-soil feedbacks help to structure plant and microbial communities, but how frequently are soil-based symbiotic mutualistic interactions sufficiently specialized to influence species distributions and community composition? To address this question, we quantified realized partner richness and phylogenetic breadth of four wild-grown native legumes (Lupinus bicolor, L. arboreus, Acmispon strigosus and A. heermannii) and performed inoculation trials to test the ability of two hosts (L. bicolor and A. strigosus) to nodulate (fundamental partner richness), benefit from (response specificity), and provide benefit to (effect specificity) 31 Bradyrhizobium genotypes.
Insect mutualisms buffer warming effects on multiple trophic levels.	Insect mutualisms can have disproportionately large impacts on local arthropod and plant communities and their responses to climatic change. The objective of this study was to determine if the presence of insect mutualisms affects host plant and herbivore responses to warming. Using open-top warming chambers at Harvard Forest, Massachusetts, USA, we manipulated temperature and presence of ants and Chaitophorus populicola aphids on Populus tremuloides host plants and monitored ant attendance and persistence of C. populicola, predator abundance, plant stress, and abundance of Myzus persicae, a pest aphid that colonized plants during the experiment. We found that, regardless of warming, C. populicola persistence was higher when tended by ants, and some ant species increased aphid persistence more than others. Warming had negligible direct but strong indirect effects on plant stress. Plant stress decreased with warming only when both ants and C. populicola aphids were present and engaged in mutualism. Plant stress was increased by warming-induced reductions in predator abundance and increases in M. persicae aphid abundance. Altogether, these findings suggest that insect mutualisms could buffer the effects of warming on specialist herbivores and plants, but when mutualisms are not intact, the direct effects of warming on predators and generalist herbivores yield strong indirect effects of warming on plants.
Shedding light onto nutrient responses of arbuscular mycorrhizal plants: nutrient interactions may lead to unpredicted outcomes of the symbiosis.	The role and importance of arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) in plant nitrogen (N) nutrition is uncertain. We propose that this be clarified by using more integrative experimental designs, with the use of a gradient of N supply and the quantification of an extensive array of plant nutrient contents. Using such an experimental design, we investigated AM effects on plant N nutrition, whether the mycorrhizal N response (MNR) determines the mycorrhizal growth response (MGR), and how MNR influences plants' C economy. Oryza sativa plants were inoculated with Rhizophagus irregularis or Funneliformis mossae. AM effects were studied along a gradient of N supplies. Biomass, photosynthesis, nutrient and starch contents, mycorrhizal colonization and OsPT11 gene expression were measured. C investment in fungal growth was estimated. Results showed that, in rice, MGR was dependent on AM nutrient uptake effects, namely on the synergy between N and Zn, and not on C expenditure. The supply of C to the fungus was dependent on the plant's nutrient demand, indicated by high shoot C/N or low %N. We conclude that one of the real reasons for the negative MGR of rice, Zn deficiency of AMF plants, would have remained hidden without an experimental design allowing the observation of plants' response to AM along gradients of nutrient concentrations. Adopting more integrative and comprehensive experimental approaches in mycorrhizal studies seems therefore essential if we are to achieve a true understanding of AM function, namely of the mechanisms of C/N exchange regulation in AM. 
Acetic acid bacteria genomes reveal functional traits for adaptation to life in insect guts.	Acetic acid bacteria (AAB) live in sugar rich environments, including food matrices, plant tissues, and the gut of sugar-feeding insects. By comparing the newly sequenced genomes of Asaia platycodi and Saccharibacter sp., symbionts of Anopheles stephensi and Apis mellifera, respectively, with those of 14 other AAB, we provide a genomic view of the evolutionary pattern of this bacterial group and clues on traits that explain the success of AAB as insect symbionts. A specific pre-adaptive trait, cytochrome bo3 ubiquinol oxidase, appears ancestral in AAB and shows a phylogeny that is congruent with that of the genomes. The functional properties of this terminal oxidase might have allowed AAB to adapt to the diverse oxygen levels of arthropod guts.
Long-term morphological stasis maintained by a plant-pollinator mutualism.	Many major branches in the Tree of Life are marked by stereotyped body plans that have been maintained over long periods of time. One possible explanation for this stasis is that there are genetic or developmental constraints that restrict the origin of novel body plans. An alternative is that basic body plans are potentially quite labile, but are actively maintained by natural selection. We present evidence that the conserved floral morphology of a species-rich flowering plant clade, Malpighiaceae, has been actively maintained for tens of millions of years via stabilizing selection imposed by their specialist New World oil-bee pollinators. Nine clades that have lost their primary oil-bee pollinators show major evolutionary shifts in specific floral traits associated with oil-bee pollination, demonstrating that developmental constraint is not the primary cause of morphological stasis in Malpighiaceae. Interestingly, Malpighiaceae show a burst in species diversification coinciding with the origin of this plant-pollinator mutualism. One hypothesis to account for radiation despite morphological stasis is that although selection on pollinator efficiency explains the origin of this unique and conserved floral morphology, tight pollinator specificity subsequently permitted greatly enhanced diversification in this system. 
Transcriptional regulators of legume-rhizobia symbiosis: nuclear factors Ys and GRAS are two for tango.	Transcription factors are DNA binding proteins that regulate gene expression. The nitrogen fixing symbiosis established between legume plants and soil bacteria is a complex interaction, in which plants need to integrate signals derived from the symbiont and the surrounding environment to initiate the developmental program of nodule organogenesis and the infection process. Several transcription factors that play critical roles in these processes have been reported in the past decade, including proteins of the GRAS and NF-Y families. Recently, we reported the characterization of a new GRAS domain containing-protein that interacts with a member of the C subunit of the NF-Y family, which plays an important role in nodule development and the progression of bacterial infection during the symbiotic interaction. The connection between transcription factors of these families highlights the significance of multimeric complexes in the fabulous capacity of plants to integrate and respond to multiple environmental stimuli. 
Symbiosomes: temporary moonlighting organelles.	Symbiosomes are a unique structural entity that performs the role of biological nitrogen fixation, an energy-demanding process that is the primary entryway of fixed nitrogen into the biosphere. Symbiosomes result from the infection of specific rhizobial strains into the roots of an appropriate leguminous host plant forming an organ referred to as a nodule. Within the infected plant cells of the nodule, the rhizobia are encased within membrane-bounded structures that develop into symbiosomes. Mature symbiosomes create an environment that allows the rhizobia to differentiate into a nitrogen-fixing form called bacteroids. The bacteroids are surrounded by the symbiosome space, which is populated by proteins from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic symbionts, suggesting this space is the quintessential component of symbiosis: an inter-kingdom environment with the single purpose of symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Proteins associated with the symbiosome membrane are largely plant-derived proteins and are non-metabolic in nature. The proteins of the symbiosome space are mostly derived from the bacteroid with annotated functions of carbon metabolism, whereas relatively few are involved in nitrogen metabolism. An appreciable portion of both the eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteins in the symbiosome are also 'moonlighting' proteins, which are defined as proteins that perform roles unrelated to their annotated activities when found in an unexpected physiological environment. The essential functions of symbiotic nitrogen fixation of the symbiosome are performed by co-operative interactions of proteins from both symbionts some of which may be performing unexpected roles. 
Succinoglycan is required for initiation and elongation of infection threads during nodulation of alfalfa by Rhizobium meliloti.	Rhizobium meliloti Rm1021 must be able to synthesize succinoglycan in order to invade successfully the nodules which it elicits on alfalfa and to establish an effective nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. Using R. meliloti cells that express green fluorescent protein (GFP), we have examined the nature of the symbiotic deficiency of exo mutants that are defective or altered in succinoglycan production. Our observations indicate that an exoY mutant, which does not produce succinoglycan, is symbiotically defective because it cannot initiate the formation of infection threads. An exoZ mutant, which produces succinoglycan without the acetyl modification, forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on plants, but it exhibits a reduced efficiency in the initiation and elongation of infection threads. An exoH mutant, which produces symbiotically nonfunctional high-molecular-weight succinoglycan that lacks the succinyl modification, cannot form extended infection threads. Infection threads initiate at a reduced rate and then abort before they reach the base of the root hairs. Overproduction of succinoglycan by the exoS96::Tn5 mutant does not reduce the efficiency of infection thread initiation and elongation, but it does significantly reduce the ability of this mutant to colonize the curled root hairs, which is the first step of the invasion process. The exoR95::Tn5 mutant, which overproduces succinoglycan to an even greater extent than the exoS96::Tn5 mutant, has completely lost its ability to colonize the curled root hairs. These new observations lead us to propose that succinoglycan is required for both the initiation and elongation of infection threads during nodule invasion and that excess production of succinoglycan interferes with the ability of the rhizobia to colonize curled root hairs.
Symbioses in Amphipholis squamata (Echinodermata, Ophiuroidea, Amphiuridae): geographical variation of infestation and effect of symbionts on the host's light production.	Populations of the polychromatic and bioluminescent species Amphipholis squamata from eight locations were examined for internal and external symbionts. At three locations (two in the United Kingdom and one in Papua New Guinea), no symbionts were present, while four species were recovered from the remaining locations: Cancerilla tubulata and Parachordeumium amphiurae (copepods), Rhopalura ophiocomae (orthonectid) and an undescribed species of rhabdocoel turbellarian. No ophiuroid individual hosted more than one symbiont species, despite the presence of two or more within a population. Symbiont presence and prevalence varied with location, and with colour variety, but with no apparent pattern or trends. Light-production characteristics of the host were affected by the presence of all symbionts except C. tubulata. These effects, however, did not vary between colour varieties or between geographical locations, but were specific to the symbiont species: the presence of P. amphiurae resulted in enhanced intensity of light production, while that of R. ophiocomae and the turbellarian species resulted in reduced intensity. The kinetics of light production (time until maximum output) were altered only by the presence of the turbellarian. Changes in the light-production characteristics are discussed in relation to morphological, energetical and physiological effects of the symbioses.
Active resistance of entomophagous rhabditid Heterorhabditis bacteriophora to insect immunity.	A specific extracellular proteinase, degrading selectively the cecropin-based defence system of insects, is secreted into the larval body during parasitism of the greater wax moth by the Heterorhabditis bacteriophora/Photorhabdus luminescens complex and by phase 1 of P. luminescens. The proteolytic digestion of insect inducible cecropin-like immune molecules was demonstrated by the disappearance of the Galleria mellonella cecropins and purified Hyalophora cecropin B peptide PAGE bands upon exposure to infected extracts, and a similar abrogation of antibacterial activity using an agar diffusion assay. Proteolytic activity of infected extracts produced by nematode/bacterial complex and phase 1 variant of P. luminescens was shown to be correlated with cecropin-inhibitory activity, suggesting that this anti-cecropin agent may be responsible for the ability of bacteria to establish infection and the insecticidal nature of H. bacteriophora. Antibacterial activity of Galleria lysozyme and that of chicken egg-white lysozyme to which P. luminescens is insensitive, was unaffected by H. bacteriophora proteinase.
