Last three days of life in the hospital: a comparison of symptoms, signs and treatments in the young old and the oldest old patients using the Resident assessment instrument for palliative care.	Knowledge concerning the provision of end of life care to the oldest old hospitalised patients is deficient.
Symptom index P-value and symptom sensitivity index P-value to determine symptom association between apnea and reflux in premature infants at term.	The current method to determine temporal association (TA) between reflux and symptoms is the symptom association probability (SAP), but this method has limitations due to the constraints of binning and the violation of statistical principles of the Fisher's exact test that lead to an invalid estimation of TA. The aim of this study is to develop improved methods of computing the TA between apneic and reflux events using simulation and permutation methods and to compare these to the SAP. TA was analyzed between polysomnographic obstructive apneas and multichannel intraluminal impedance (MII) reflux events. Three new numerical methods were compared to the SAP in four former premature infants with persistent apneas at term. The experimentally found association was compared to the association observed in simulated or permuted data consistent with the lack of association beyond what is expected by chance alone. Temporal association was computed based on symptom and symptom sensitivity indices, SI and SSI, with varying window of association (WA) times from 15 to 300 s. The three new methods estimated P-values at varying WA that generally followed the same pattern of the SAP which had a more erratic pattern. The WA that gave the lowest P-value was approximately 120 s. Each of the novel methods produced P-value results consistent with each other and the SAP yet not subject to its limitations. The variation of WA gave a temporal profile of TA providing clues to its etiology. These new metrics are called Symptom Index (SIP) and Symptom Sensitivity Index (SSIP) P-values.
Clinical features of sickle cell anaemia in northern nigerian children.	Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a more common and severe disease in Africa. Nigeria the most populous black nation in Africa has the largest number of sickle cell anaemia (SCA) patients in the world.  Borno and Yobe State has the largest number of sickle cell trait in Nigeria with prevalence of 27.9% and 32.6% respectively. Sickle cell anaemia survival to adulthood in Africa was reported to be 10-15% in the first decade of life, with the death rate of about 5% during subsequent decades. Large portion that died have shown no overt chronic organ failure but died during acute episodes of pain, infections, acute chest syndrome, stroke and anaemic crises.
Living with advanced but stable multiple myeloma: a study of the symptom burden and cumulative effects of disease and intensive (hematopoietic stem cell transplant-based) treatment on health-related quality of life.	The cumulative impact of disease and treatment-related factors on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in long-term survivors of multiple myeloma is poorly characterized.
Changes in symptom intensity among cancer patients receiving outpatient palliative care.	Symptom changes are usually reported using summary statistics such as mean and/or median, which may obscure the treatment effect.
