Spinal interneurons play a minor role in generating ongoing renal sympathetic nerve activity in spinally intact rats.	The purpose of the present study was to determine whether spinal interneurons play a role in the regulation of sympathetic activity in spinally intact rats. In acutely spinally transected rats, we have described a population of spinal interneurons that, by virtue of correlations between their ongoing firing rates and the magnitude of ongoing renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), are candidates for generators of sympathetic activity. Further evidence for a sympathetic role for these neurons comes from our observation that cervical spinal stimulation that reduces RSNA also reduces their discharge rates. In chloralose-anesthetized, spinally intact and spinally transected rats, we recorded ongoing RSNA and the ongoing activities of T(10) dorsal horn and intermediate zone interneurons, and we determined the incidence of sympathetically related neurons in these rats by cross-correlating their activities with RSNA. The incidence of correlated neurons was much smaller in spinally intact than in spinally transected rats. We stimulated the dorsolateral, C(2-3) spinal cord before and after acute C(1) spinal transection. Dorsolateral cervical stimulation in spinally transected rats reduced both RSNA and the activities of most T(10) interneurons, but stimulation in spinally intact rats increased RSNA while still reducing the activities of most T(10) interneurons. Both the low incidence of sympathetically correlated spinal neurons in intact rats and the dissociation between the effects of cervical stimulation on RSNA and the discharge rates of spinal interneurons argue against these neurons playing a major role in regulating sympathetic activity in intact rats.
Global expression of NGF promotes sympathetic axonal growth in CNS white matter but does not alter its parallel orientation.	Axonal regeneration is normally limited after injuries to CNS white matter. Infusion of neurotrophins has been successful in promoting regenerative growth through injured white matter but this growth generally fails to extend beyond the infusion site. These observations are consistent with a chemotropic effect of these factors on axonal growth and support the prevailing view that neurotrophin-induced axonal regeneration requires the use of gradients, i.e., gradually increasing neurotrophin levels along the target fiber tract. To examine the potential of global overexpression of neurotrophins to promote, and/or modify the orientation of, regenerative axonal growth within white matter, we grafted nerve growth factor (NGF) responsive neurons into the corpus callosum of transgenic mice overexpressing NGF throughout the CNS under control of the promoter for glial fibrillary acidic protein. One week later, glial fibrillary acidic protein and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan immunoreactivity increased within injured white matter around the grafts. NGF levels were significantly higher in the brains of transgenic compared with non-transgenic mice and further elevated within injury sites compared with the homotypic region of the non-injured side. Although there was minimal outgrowth from neurons grafted into non-transgenic mice, extensive parallel axonal regeneration had occurred within the corpus callosum up to 1.5 mm beyond the astrogliotic scar (the site of maximum NGF expression) in transgenic mice. These results demonstrate that global overexpression of neurotrophins does not override the constraints limiting regenerative growth to parallel orientations and suggest that such factors need not be presented as positive gradients to promote axonal regeneration within white matter.
Experimental study to localize the neurons projecting to the lamb retractor penis muscle.	Aim of the present study was to locate the neurons projecting to the lamb retractor penis muscle, a smooth muscle associated to the penis. The retrograde neuronal tracer Fast Blue was injected into the bulbopenile portion of the left retractor penis muscle. Labelled cells were found bilaterally in the S2-S4 spinal ganglia, from the last two lumbar (L5-L6 or L6-L7) to S4 sympathetic trunk ganglia and in the hypogastric and pelvic plexuses. Fast blue-positive (FB+) neurons were also found in the intermediate gray substance in the S1-S4 segments of the spinal cord. Our research enables us to describe the organization of the innervation of the lamb retractor penis muscle, highlighting the site of the primary afferent, postganglionic efferent and presumably preganglionic parasympathetic neurons projecting to the muscle.
