Effects of acute administration of DA agonists on locomotor activity: MPTP versus neonatal intracerebroventricular 6-OHDA treatment.	The effects of several dopamine (DA) receptor agonists upon locomotor activity on adult MPTP-treated mice and postnatal 6-hydroxydopamine- (6-OHDA-) treated rats were assessed in ten experiments. C57 BL/6 mice were administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 2 x 40 mg/kg, s.c., 24-hr interval between injections) at 5-months-age, while 1-day-old male Wistar rat pups were given intracisternal 6-OHDA (50 mg, once following desipramine, 25 mg/kg). MPTP-treated mice were tested 4-5 weeks following MPTP injections whereas neonatal 6-OHDA rats were tested at 3-months-age. Locomotor activity was measured in respective activity test chambers following acute administration of DA receptor agonists. In MPTP-treated mice, apomorphine failed to elevate locomotor activity but instead further exacerbated (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) the hypokinesia of these animals while inducing marked increases in control mice. Cabergoline (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) and bromocriptine (3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) caused dose-specific elevations of locomotion in MPTP and control mice but suppressed activity at the highest doses. Quinpirole (0.2 mg/kg) and 7-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT; 300 nmole/kg) increased locomotion in hypokinesic MPTP-treated mice; in control mice, activity was elevated by quinpirole (0.2 and 0.7 mg/kg) and 7-OH-DPAT (100 and 300 nmole/kg), while higher doses suppressed activity. Neither SKF 38393 (1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol) nor FCE 23884 [4-(9,10-didehydro-6-methylergolin-8 beta-yl) methyl-piperazine-2,6-dione] affected locomotor activity. Apomorphine (0.3, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg), bromocriptine (3.0 mg/kg) and cabergoline (1.0 mg/kg) stimulated locomotion in sham-operated rats, and to a greater extent in the 6-OHDA-treated rats. Higher dose cabergoline (3.0 mg/kg) induced increased activity of similar extent in sham controls and 6-OHDA treated rats. Activity-enhancing effects of quinpirole (0.2, 0.7 and 2.1 mg/kg) in sham rats were attenuated in 6-OHDA treated rats. Both SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg) and FCE 23884 (0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg) induced locomotor activity increases in 6-OHDA, but not sham, rats. Finally, 7-OH-DPAT (1200 mg/kg) enhanced activity in 6-OHDA rats vs. shams. The effects of the DA agonists are discussed with regard to the putative antihypokinesic effects in MPTP mice and DA-receptor supersensitivity effects in neonatal 6-OHDA rats, pertaining to their more-or-less selective subreceptor profiles.
Neurotrophic factors for the investigation and treatment of movement disorders.	Neurotrophic factors (NFs) are proteins that enhance neuronal survival, differentiation, neurotransmitter function and resistance to neurotoxins and lesions. For these reasons the NFs are considered as a new potential therapeutic tool for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, a group of diseases that produce the most important cause for disability in the Western world. Some NFs prevent or even reverse the behavioral, biochemical, pharmacological and histological abnormalities observed in several in vitro and in vivo models of neurodegenerative disorders, namely Parkinson's disease. Several NFs have been investigated in primate models of neurological disorders and some of them have been used for patients with these diseases. The results so far obtained in humans have been disappointing for several reasons, including technical problems for delivery, unbearable side effects or lack of efficacy. Future approaches for the use of NFs in humans should include the following: (1) Investigation of the putative compounds in animal models more related to the pathophysiology of each disease, such as in genetic models of neurodegenerative diseases; (2) New methods of delivery including genetic engineering by viral vectors and administration through implantable devices; (3) More precise methods of continuous response evaluation, including the novel neuroimaging techniques; (4) Investigation of the effects of behavioral stimulation and conventional pharmacotherapy on the metabolism of NFs.
N-terminal tripeptide of IGF-1 improves functional deficits after 6-OHDA lesion in rats.	Central administration of N-terminal tripeptide of IGF-1 (GPE) prevents the loss of dopamine neurons. We now examine effects of GPE administered peripherally, on long-term functional recovery after 6-OHDA lesion in rats. GPE treatment (3 mg/kg, i.p.), 3 days after the lesion reduced the number of rotations (p<0.005) and the time over meter (p<0.005) compared to vehicle treatment. Step length and number of adjusting steps were increased in the GPE group (p<0.005), particularly at 12 weeks post lesion. However, GPE treatment did not prevent the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the striatum. The study suggests that peripheral administration of GPE after onset of nigrostriatal dopamine depletion improves long-term Parkinsonian motor deficits, independent of neuronal outcome.
Quantitative analyses of GFRalpha-1 and GFRalpha-2 mRNAs and tyrosine hydroxylase protein in the nigrostriatal system reveal bilateral compensatory changes following unilateral 6-OHDA lesions in the rat.	Copy numbers of mRNAs for GFRalpha-1 and GFRalpha-2, the preferred receptors for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NTN) were determined by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (QRT-PCR). Receptor expression was assessed in striatum (ST) and substantia nigra (SN) of normal rats and rats acutely or progressively lesioned by 6-OHDA injected into the medial forebrain bundle or ST, respectively. GFRalpha-1 mRNA was clearly detected in normal ST. In normal SN, significantly higher expression of both receptors was observed. At 4 weeks after acute lesion, GFRalpha-2 mRNA was markedly decreased in SN bilaterally, whereas GFRalpha-1 mRNA in SN and ST was not affected. A progressive lesion resulted in a progressive decrease of GFRalpha1 mRNA in ST bilaterally. In SN, levels of GFRalpha-1 mRNA were not significantly affected by a progressive lesion, whereas GFRalpha-2 mRNA was markedly decreased bilaterally. Quantitative western blotting standardized against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein from PC12 cells revealed the expected decrease in TH protein in lesioned SN, but also significant increases in TH protein in contralateral, unlesioned SNs at 4 weeks after both acute and progressive lesions. These data suggest that previously unrecognized compensatory changes in the nigrostriatal system occur in response to unilateral dopamine depletion. Since the changes observed in receptor expression did not always parallel loss of dopamine neurons, cells in addition to the nigral dopamine neurons appear to be affected by a 6-OHDA insult and are potential targets for the neurotrophic factors, GDNF and NTN.
AMPA receptor blockade potentiates the stimulatory effect of L-DOPA on dopamine release in dopamine-deficient corticostriatal slice preparation.	The release of [3H]dopamine was measured in rat corticostriatal slice preparations that contained the striatum and the adjacent prefrontal cortex to maintained glutamatergic corticostriatal afferentation. These slices were prepared from either nontreated or 6-hydroxydopamine-pretreated rats. The slices were loaded with [3H]dopamine, submerged in a two-compartment bath so that the cortical region was contained in one compartment, the corpus callosum was passed through a silicone greased slot, and the striatal region was contained in the other compartment. The cortical and the striatal parts were superfused with Krebs-bicarbonate buffer independently. The release of [3H]dopamine was determined from the striatal part at rest and in response to electrical stimulation of the cortical area. Electrical stimulation of the cortical part increased the release of [3H]dopamine from the striatal part of the slices, and this release was found to be higher after lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine. Cortically evoked [3H]dopamine release was even higher in the presence of the dopamine precursor L-DOPA after 6-hydroxdopamine lesion. Perfusion of GYKI-53405, a noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonist, in combination with L-DOPA further increased both basal and stimulation-evoked [3H]dopamine release, whereas GYKI-53405 by itself did not influence basal [3H]dopamine outflow from striatum. These findings indicate that, in parkinsonian striatum, the stimulatory effect of L-DOPA on dopamine release is potentiated by AMPA receptor blockade, and the antiparkinsonian effect of GYKI-53405 may be due to its L-DOPA sparing effect.
Neuroprotective properties of cultured neural progenitor cells are associated with the production of sonic hedgehog.	Numerous studies have shown that abnormal motor behavior improves when neural progenitor cells (NPCs) are transplanted into animal models of neurodegeneration. The mechanisms responsible for this improvement are not fully understood. Indirect anatomical evidence suggests that attention of abnormal motor behavior is attributed, at least in part, to the secretion of trophic factors from the transplanted NPCs. However, there is little direct evidence supporting this hypothesis. Here we show that NPCs isolated from the subventricular zone (SVZ) of neonatal mice are highly teratogenic when transplanted into the neural tube of developing chick embryos and are neuroprotective for fetal dopaminergic neurons in culture because they release sonic hedgehog (Shh). In addition, the neuroprotective properties of NPCs can be exploited to promote better long-term survival of transplanted fetal neurons in an animal model of Parkinson's disease. Thus, cultured NPCs isolated from the SVZ can secrete at least one potent mitogen (Shh) that dramatically affects the fate of neighboring cells. This trait may account for some of the improvement in motor behavior often reported in animal models of neurodegeneration after transplantation of cultured NPCs that were isolated from the SVZ.
Apoptosis and nestin expression in the cortex and cultured astrocytes following 6-OHDA administration.	We used the dopaminergic neurotoxicant, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), as a tool to characterize the origins of the astrocytic response to injury. Reactive astrocytes were examined by immunocyto- and histo-chemical visualization of nestin protein in the brain and cultivated cells. Following 6-OHDA (dose-dependent) treatment, the expression of nestin-like immunoreactive cells in the corpus callosum and cerebral cortex was increased compared with that of the control animals, indicating that a significant up-regulation of nestin protein occurred in these regions. In the corpus callosum and cerebral cortex, the majority of the nestin-like immunoreactive cells showed a distribution and pattern similar to those of the glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-immunoreactive cells. Double immunofluorescence measurements showed that 100% of the nestin-like immunoreactive cells expressed GFAP-immunoreactive cells, indicating that these nestin-like immunoreactive cells belong to a reactive population of the astrocytes. In this study, we observed the morphological changes in the astrocytes following 6-OHDA administration, demonstrating that 6-OHDA induced injury leads to a rapid and transient up-regulation of nestin-like immunoreactivity in activated astrocytes.
Neonatal dopamine depletion induces changes in morphogenesis and gene expression in the developing cortex.	The mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system is implicated in mental health disorders affecting attention, impulse inhibition and other cognitive functions. It has also been involved in the regulation of cortical morphogenesis. The present study uses focal injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle of BALB/c mice to examine morphological, behavioral and transcriptional responses to selective DA deficit in the fronto-parietal cortex. Mice that received injections of 6-OHDA on postnatal day 1 (PND1) showed reduction in DA levels in their cortices at PND7. Histological analysis at PND120 revealed increased fronto-cortical width, but decreased width of somatosensory parietal cortex. Open field object recognition suggested impaired response inhibition in adult mice after 6-OHDA treatment. Transcriptional analyses using 17K mouse microarrays showed that such lesions caused up-regulation of 100 genes in the cortex at PND7. Notably, among these genes are Sema3A which plays a repulsive role in axonal guidance, RhoD which inhibits dendritic growth and tubulin beta-5 microtubule subunit. In contrast, 127 genes were down-regulated, including CCT-epsilon and CCT-zeta that play roles in actin and tubulin folding. Thus, neonatal DA depletion affects transcripts involved in control of cytoskeletal formation and pathway finding, instrumental for normal differentiation and synaptogenesis. The observed gene expression changes are consistent with histological cortical and behavioral impairments in the adult mice treated with 6-OHDA on PND1. Our results point towards specific molecular targets that might be involved in disease process mediated by altered developmental DA regulation.
Amphetamine and mCPP effects on dopamine and serotonin striatal in vivo microdialysates in an animal model of hyperactivity.	In the neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat hyperlocomotor activity, first described in the 1970s, was subsequently found to be increased by an additional lesion with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) (i.c.v.) in adulthood. The latter animal model (i.e., 134 microg 6-OHDA at 3 d postbirth plus 71 microg 5,7-DHT at 10 weeks; desipramine pretreatments) was used in this study, in an attempt to attribute hyperlocomotor attenuation by D,L-amphetamine sulfate (AMPH) and m-chlorophenylpiperazine di HCl (mCPP), to specific changes in extraneuronal (i.e., in vivo microdialysate) levels of dopamine (DA) and/or serotonin (5-HT). Despite the 98-99% reduction in striatal tissue content of DA, the baseline striatal microdialysate level of DA was reduced by 50% or less at 14 weeks, versus the intact control group. When challenged with AMPH (0.5 mg/kg), the microdialysate level of DA went either unchanged or was slightly reduced over the next 180 min (i.e., 20 min sampling), while in the vehicle group and 5,7-DHT (alone) lesioned group, the microdialysate level was maximally elevated by approximately 225% and approximately 450%, respectively--and over a span of nearly 2 h. Acute challenge with mCPP (1 mg/kg salt form) had little effect on microdialysate levels of DA, DOPAC and 5-HT. Moreover, there was no consistent change in the microdialysate levels of DA, DOPAC, and 5-HT between intact, 5-HT-lesioned rats, and DA-lesioned rats which might reasonably account for an attenuation of hyperlocomotor activity. These findings indicate that there are other important neurochemical changes produced by AMPH- and mCPP-attenuated hyperlocomotor activity, or perhaps a different brain region or multiple brain regional effects are involved in AMPH and mCPP behavioral actions.
Apomorphine-induced differences in cortical and striatal EEG and their glutamatergic mediation in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats.	In the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD), the frequency spectra of EEG in the cortex and the striatum were studied following injection of the dopamine agonist, apomorphine (APO) alone or in combination with the NMDA antagonist, MK-801. In control rats, APO produced long-lasting (1 h) suppression of alpha activity, significantly greater in the cortex than in the striatum. In 6-OHDA rats, an even larger suppressive effect was observed in the beta frequency range, again significantly more pronounced in the cortex than in the striatum. In these animals, alpha suppression was similar in cortex and striatum in the first hour after APO injection, but alpha activity level was significantly higher in the striatum than in the cortex in the second hour. Pretreatment with MK-801 in 6-OHDA rats eliminated the APO-induced difference between cortex and striatum in the beta range, inversed the effect in the alpha range, and intensified delta activity stronger in the striatum than in the cortex. Thus, frequency-dependent differences in EEG power between cortex and striatum may be involved in dopaminergic treatment of PD and, at least in part, be mediated through NMDA receptors.
C-terminal mechano-growth factor induces heme oxygenase-1-mediated neuroprotection of SH-SY5Y cells via the protein kinase Cϵ/Nrf2 pathway.	Recently, a variant of insulin-like growth factor-1, mechano-growth factor (MGF), has been discovered whose 24-amino-acid carboxy end is protective in models of stroke, nerve injury, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, suggesting broad-spectrum neuroprotective properties. Moreover, we recently demonstrated in vitro and in vivo that a modified protease-resistant 24-amino-acid MGF derivative (MGF24) protects dopaminergic neurons from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis via induction of the stress response protein heme oxygenase-1. However, the underlying mechanism by which MGF24 up-regulates heme oxygenase-1 expression is unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that MGF24-induced heme oxygenase-1 up-regulation is dependent on activation of protein kinase Cϵ and NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2). MGF24 induces nuclear translocation of Nrf2, and siRNA knockdown of Nrf2 or of heme oxygenase-1 prevents MGF24-induced heme oxygenase-1 up-regulation and neuroprotection of SH-SY5Y cells against 6-hydroxydopamine-induced cell death. Pharmacological inhibition of ERK, p38 MAPK, PI3K/Akt, or PKC signaling revealed that only PKC inhibition by GF109203X prevents MGF24's ability to protect against 6-hydroxydopamine-induced cell death. GF109203X also prevented MGF24-induced Nrf2 nuclear translocation and heme oxygenase-1 up-regulation. siRNA knockdown of protein kinase Cϵ blocks MGF24-induced Nfr2 nuclear translocation, heme oxygenase-1 expression, and neuroprotection. Taken together, these results demonstrate that PKC activity is needed for MGF24's activation of Nrf2, which in turn increases heme oxygenase-1 expression, a critical event in mediating MGF24's neuroprotection against 6-hydroxydopamine-induced apoptosis.
A role for the dopaminergic nigrostriatal bundle in the pathogenesis of altered brain glucose consumption after lateral hypothalamic lesions. Evidence using the 14C-labeled deoxyglucose technique.	The pattern of altered brain glucose consumption which results from unilateral electrolytic lesions of the lateral hypothalamic area in albino rats is first described. Glucose consumption was estimated using the 2-deoxy-D-[14C]glucose tracer technique, which allows for the in vivo determination of the rates of glucose consumption of individual structures within the brain. Unilateral lesions resulted in a decrease of the glucose consumption of a number of structures rostral and ipsilateral to the lesion compared with that of the corresponding structures on the contralateral side. The lesion-associated depression of glucose consumption was greatest in sulcal prefrontal cortex, frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and caudatoputamen. No structure caudal to the lesion was affected. The deficit appeared acutely (2 h postoperatively) and persisted virtually unchanged for at least 14 days after the lesions had been made. Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra resulted in a decrease of the glucose consumption of a few of the ipsilateral structures which had been affected after the lateral hypothalamic lesions, most significantly in the ipsilateral caudatoputamen. In addition, the decreased glucose consumption of the ipsilateral caudatoputamen which had occurred after the lateral hypothalamic lesions disappeared when 1 mg/kg apomorphine hydrochloride was intravenously administered to the lesioned animals 14 days postoperatively. Thus, the decrease of ipsilateral caudatoputamen glucose consumption observed after unilateral electrolytic lateral hypothalamic lesions was (1) reproduced by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra and (2) reversed by intravenous apomorphine. Destruction of the ascending dopaminergic nigrostriatal bundle at the level of the lateral hypothalamus may have accounted for the reduced caudatoputamen glucose consumption which had been observed after lateral hypothalamic lesions.
Effects of chronic, systemic treatment with the dopamine receptor agonist R-apomorphine in partially lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease: an electrophysiological study of substantia nigra dopamine neurons.	Previous studies have suggested that R-apomorphine (R-APO), a non-selective dopamine (DA) receptor agonist, has neuroprotective effects in the experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we investigated the effects of chronic, systemic treatment with R-APO in the firing activity of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) DA neurons in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) partially lesioned rats. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rats treated with vehicle, injection of 6-OHDA (20.1 microg) into the striatum produced a partial lesion causing 41% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in the SNc. In the partially lesioned rats, chronic, systemic treatment of R-APO (10 mg/kg/day, s.c., 11 days) attenuated loss of TH-ir neurons in the SNc. The partial lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway and R-APO treatment did not change the firing rate and firing pattern of DA neurons in the SNc of rats. In contrast, the R-APO treatment increased the number of spontaneously active DA neurons of the SNc in the partially lesioned rats, while the lesion decreased the number of spontaneously active DA neurons. In addition, the chronic R-APO treatment decreased the responsiveness of the DA neurons to intravenously administrated R-APO in the partially lesioned rats. These results indicate that chronic, systemic R-APO treatment has the neuroprotective effect, and reverses the decrease in the number of spontaneously active DA neurons in the SNc whereas the treatment induces a reduction in the sensitivity of DA receptors in the SNc to R-APO stimulation in this model.
Mechanisms underlying the impairment of hippocampal long-term potentiation and memory in experimental Parkinson's disease.	Although patients with Parkinson's disease show impairments in cognitive performance even at the early stage of the disease, the synaptic mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment in this pathology are unknown. Hippocampal long-term potentiation represents the major experimental model for the synaptic changes underlying learning and memory and is controlled by endogenous dopamine. We found that hippocampal long-term potentiation is altered in both a neurotoxic and transgenic model of Parkinson's disease and this plastic alteration is associated with an impaired dopaminergic transmission and a decrease of NR2A/NR2B subunit ratio in synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptors. Deficits in hippocampal-dependent learning were also found in hemiparkinsonian and mutant animals. Interestingly, the dopamine precursor l-DOPA was able to restore hippocampal synaptic potentiation via D1/D5 receptors and to ameliorate the cognitive deficit in parkinsonian animals suggesting that dopamine-dependent impairment of hippocampal long-term potentiation may contribute to cognitive deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Alternative splicing of AMPA receptor subunits in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.	Abnormal corticostriatal plasticity is a key mechanism of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). Antagonists at glutamatergic α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, such as IEM 1460, reduce induction and expression of dyskinesia in rat and non-human primate models of PD. AMPA receptor function is regulated by post-transcriptional splicing of subunit mRNA to produce flip and flop isoforms, which may therefore influence corticostriatal plasticity. The aim of this work was to evaluate alterations in alternative splicing of striatal AMPA receptor subunits in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model of LID and PD. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received 12.5 μg 6-OHDA injections into the right medial forebrain bundle. In experiment 1, to assess acute dyskinesia, rats received L-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle for 21 days. In experiment 2, to assess dyskinesia priming, rats received vehicle, L-DOPA+vehicle or L-DOPA+IEM 1460 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) for 21 days. Animals were humanely killed 1h following final treatment in experiment 1, and 48 h following final treatment in experiment 2. Coronal sections of rostral striatum were processed for in situ hybridisation histochemistry, using oligonucleotide probes specific for the GluR1 and GluR2 subunits and their flip and flop isoforms. L-DOPA treatment increased GluR2-flip mRNA expression in the lesioned striatum of both groups; this was blocked by the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor antagonist IEM 1460. GluR1-flip expression was increased after 48 h drug washout but not in acute LID. There were no changes in expression of flop isoforms. Alternative splicing of AMPAR subunits contributes to abnormal striatal plasticity in the induction and expression of LID. Increases in GluR2-flip expression depend on activation of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors, which are a potential target of anti-dyskinetic therapies.
Dopamine-rich grafts alleviate deficits in contralateral response space induced by extensive dopamine depletion in rats.	Unilateral infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine into the nigro-striatal pathway in the rat is the most common dopamine lesion model of Parkinson's disease. In the present study, we explore the impact of near complete unilateral loss of dopamine along the nigro-striatal pathway and subsequent cell replacement therapy in a choice reaction time task in rats, with assessment of spatial responding towards either side of the body (ipsilateral or contralateral to the lesion) on alternate days. Results indicated a stable contralateral deficit in response accuracy, reaction times and motor function for 50 consecutive days of testing, with no signs of recovery or compensation. All lesioned rats developed a near-hole bias and displayed prolonged movement and reaction times when responses had to be directed towards a distal response location on the side of the body contralateral to the lesion, as well as a smaller ipsilateral impairment in response accuracy and movement times. Grafts of dopamine-rich tissue into the denervated striatum improved some, but not all, of the deficits induced by the lesion. Specifically, grafted rats performed at a similar level to control animals when assessed on the ipsilateral side, they demonstrated a partial restitution of their ability to respond to far contralateral stimuli, and they exhibited a marked reduction in the time to complete all lateralised responses on both sides. The present characterisation of the task and the effects of cell replacement via primary fetal mesencephalic tissue demonstrate restorative properties in alleviating the marked spatial response bias induced by unilateral loss of dopamine. 
Pharmacologically controlled, discontinuous GDNF gene therapy restores motor function in a rat model of Parkinson's disease.	Neurotrophic factors have raised hopes to be able to cure symptoms and to prevent progressive neurodegeneration in devastating neurological diseases. Gene therapy by means of viral vectors can overcome the hurdle of targeted delivery, but its current configuration is irreversible and thus much less controllable than that of classical pharmacotherapies. We thus aimed at developing a strategy allowing for both curative and controllable neurotrophic factor expression. Therefore, the short-term, intermittent and reversible expression of a neutrophic factor was evaluated for therapeutic efficacy in a slowly progressive animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD). We demonstrate that short-term induced expression of glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is sufficient to provide i) substantial protection of nigral dopaminergic neurons from degeneration and ii) restoration of dopamine supply and motor behaviour in the partial striatal 6-OHDA model PD. These neurorestorative effects of GDNF lasted several weeks beyond the time of its expression. Later on, therapeutic efficacy ceased, but was restored by a second short induction of GDNF expression, demonstrating that monthly application of the inducing drug mifepristone was sufficient to maintain neuroprotective and neurorestorative GDNF levels. These findings suggest that forthcoming gene therapies for PD or other neurodegenerative disorders can be designed in a way that low frequency application of an approved drug can provide controllable and therapeutically efficient levels of GDNF or other neurotrophic factors. Neurotrophic factor expression can be withdrawn in case of off-target effects or sufficient clinical benefit, a feature that may eventually increase the acceptance of gene therapy for less advanced patients, which may profit better from such approaches. 
Contributions of signaling by dopamine neurons in dorsal striatum to cognitive behaviors corresponding to those observed in Parkinson's disease.	Although the cardinal features of Parkinson's disease (PD) are motor symptoms, PD also causes cognitive deficits including cognitive flexibility and working memory, which are strongly associated with prefrontal cortex (PFC) functions. Yet, early stage PD is not characterized by pathology in the PFC but by a loss of dopaminergic (DA) projections from the substantia nigra to the dorsal striatum. Moreover, the degree to which PD symptoms can be ascribed to the loss of DA alone or to the loss of DA neurons is unknown. We addressed these issues by comparing mouse models of either chronic DA depletion or loss of DA projections to the dorsal striatum. We achieved equal levels of striatal DA reduction in both models which ranged from mild (~25%) to moderate (~60%). Both models displayed DA concentration-dependent reductions of motor function as well as mild deficits of cognitive flexibility and working memory. Interestingly, whereas both motor function and cognitive flexibility were more severely impaired after mild ablation of DA neurons as compared to mild loss of DA alone, both models had equal deficits after moderate loss of DA. Our results confirm contributions of nigro-striatal dopamine signaling to cognitive behaviors that are affected in early stage PD. Furthermore, our findings suggest that the phenotype after ablation of DA neurons accrues from factors beyond the mere loss of DA. 
Simvastatin reverses the downregulation of M1/4 receptor binding in 6-hydroxydopamine-induced parkinsonian rats: the association with improvements in long-term memory.	It is believed that muscarinic M1/4 receptors are closely correlated to the dopaminergic system and are strongly involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition to regulating lipid metabolism and protection from stroke, statins have been used to regulate the declined cognition. We aimed to explore the regional changes in M1/4 receptors in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat brain.
Neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions lead to opposing changes in the levels of dopamine receptors and their messenger RNAs.	Previous studies have established that selective damage to the early-developing components of the mesostriatal dopamine system produces profound changes in dopamine D1 receptor-mediated behaviors, while decreasing D1 receptor density. In order to better understand the effects of early intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, we studied the ontogenetic expression (postnatal days 7, 14, 35 and 90) of D1 and D2 receptors, and their corresponding messenger RNAs, in rats that had received intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine or vehicle lesions on postnatal day 1. Using receptor autoradiography, significant (P < 0.05) decreases in [3H]SCH 23390 binding to D1 receptors in the rostral and caudal dorsomedial and ventromedial caudate of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals were evident by postnatal day 7, and remained depressed at all future time points. A significant decrease in D1 receptor concentration occurred in the dorsolateral caudate at later time points (postnatal days 35 and 90). [3H]Spiperone binding to D2 receptor sites was unchanged throughout the entire study. In situ hybridization for D1 and D2 messenger RNA expression showed contrasting results. 6-Hydroxydopamine induced significant decreases of D1 messenger RNA levels in the dorsolateral and dorsomedial caudate by postnatal day 7. By postnatal day 14, messenger RNA expression was significantly elevated in the dorsomedial and ventromedial caudate of the 6-hydroxydopamine group, and remained elevated thereafter. D1 messenger RNA levels became elevated in the lateral caudate at later time points (postnatal days 35 and 90). The opposing changes in D1 receptor concentrations and the messenger RNA encoding the protein did not occur as a consequence of increased transport of D1 receptors to striatonigral terminals. D2 messenger RNA levels in the dorsal caudate were significantly decreased on postnatal day 7, and became higher than controls at postnatal day 14, but were unchanged from controls at later time points. Together, the D1 receptor and D1 messenger RNA findings suggest that the normal relationship between levels of D1 receptor transcript and D1 receptor protein is permanently altered following the early loss of dopamine. In contrast, the results indicate that dopamine plays a minor role in the early postnatal development of the D2 receptor protein and transcript. These findings suggest that dopamine may be involved in the coordinated expression of some dopamine receptors and their corresponding messenger RNAs during development.
Dopamine and 5-HT receptor sensitivity does not correlate with neostriatal dopamine or 5-HT content.	To explore associations of neostriatal (NST) endogenous levels of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) with sensitivity of their receptors, graded doses of 6-hydroxydopamine HBr (0 to 400 micrograms, ICV; 6-OHDA; desipramine pretreatment, 20 mg/kg IP) were given to rats between birth (P 0) and P 42. Numbers of vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) induced by SKF 38393 or m-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP), respective DA D1 and 5-HT2 agonists, were subsequently determined. Enhanced SKF 38393-induced VCMs occurred when NST DA was reduced 97%-98% by high dose 6-OHDA (100-134 micrograms) at P 0 or P 3, but not in rats with 95%-97% loss in DA produced by 6-OHDA at P7 (134 micrograms) or P3 (67 micrograms). Enhanced m-CPP-induced VCMs occurred even when NST 5-HT content was not elevated after 6-OHDA (134 micrograms at P 10). Accordingly, D1 and 5-HT receptor sensitivity is not correlated with respective NST DA and 5-HT contents. The stage of ontogeny at the time of DA denervation may be the governing influence on receptor sensitivity.
Schedule-induced polydipsia and the nucleus accumbens: electrochemical measurements of dopamine efflux and effects of excitotoxic lesions in the core.	The efflux of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) core during the acquisition of schedule-induced polydipsia (drinking in response to intermittent food presentation) was measured using rapid scan voltammetry. DA efflux increased throughout the SIP sessions, always reaching a peak after the session had terminated. There was, however, no relationship between the acquisition of the drinking response to intermittent food presentation and DA efflux. When water was absent from the test chamber, DA efflux still increased and reached a peak after food delivery was terminated, dissociating drinking and increased DA efflux. Taken in conjunction with previously presented data, these results suggest that the presence of DA in the NAcc core might be necessary for the development of SIP but that its efflux does not bear a systematic relationship to the acquisition of adjunctive behaviour. In a second experiment the effects of NMDA-induced lesions of the NAcc core on the acquisition and performance of SIP were examined. Lesioned rats did not differ to controls in terms of water intake, mean drinking bout length, latency to panel press for food or to begin drinking. The number of drinking bouts/min was reduced in lesioned rats, but did not reach statistical significance; the number of panel presses/min was significantly reduced in lesioned rats. These data demonstrate that the NAcc core is not necessary for the development of SIP but that elements of performance are affected. This suggests that the development of SIP can be fractionated and that different neural elements control different aspects of its expression. These data are used to support the hypothesis that the NAcc core is involved in focusing behaviour and regulating switching between response options.
