Ionic mechanisms of GABA-induced long-term potentiation in the rat superior colliculus.	GABA-induced excitation and long-term potentiation (LTPG) have been demonstrated recently in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus (SC). In other regions of the nervous system, GABA elicits excitatory responses via ionotropic GABA receptors under certain conditions. This excitation is proposed to be due to either a high neuronal chloride concentration favouring a depolarising chloride efflux, or to a bicarbonate efflux coupled to a chloride influx. The aim of this study was to characterise the mechanisms underlying excitation and prolonged increase in synaptic transmission induced by GABA in the SC. Extracellular field potentials were recorded from 1-month-old rat SC slices, and LTPG of these responses was evoked by application of 3 mM GABA. GABA-induced excitation and LTPG were significantly reduced by lowering the extracellular calcium concentration, but not by a decreased potassium concentration. Replacing the extracellular bicarbonate-buffered perfusion medium with a HEPES-buffered solution had no effect on LTPG but blocking the bicarbonate-generating enzyme carbonic anhydrase both intra- and extracellularly with ethoxyzolamide (50 microM) prevented LTPG. The chloride transport inhibitor bumetanide (50 microM) reduced but did not block LTPG. We therefore suggest that the contribution of the chloride equilibrium to LTPG is only of minor importance. The intracellular bicarbonate pool and related efflux provides the basis for the excitatory action of GABA, leading to a subsequent depolarisation and calcium influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels, thus causing long-lasting changes in synaptic transmission.
Selective impairment in sympathetic vasomotor control with norepinephrine transporter inhibition.	Norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibition increases the responsiveness to vasoactive medications and attenuates the response to sympathetic stimuli. The phenomenon may be a result of impaired regulation of sympathetic vasomotor tone.
Treatment of recurrent chronic hyperplastic sinusitis with nasal polyposis.	To demonstrate the long-term efficacy of intranasal furosemide, an inhibitor of the sodium chloride cotransporter channel at the basolateral surface of the respiratory epithelial cell, vs no therapeutic intervention vs intranasal mometasone furoate, a corticosteroid, in preventing relapses of chronic hyperplastic sinusitis with nasal polyposis.
Neurochemical and psychotropic effects of bupropion in healthy male subjects.	Bupropion is a weak inhibitor of noradrenaline (NE) and dopamine (DA) reuptake and has no direct action on serotonin (5-HT) neuronal elements. In the rat brain, bupropion suppresses NE neuron firing activity via the activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and increases that of 5-HT neurons through an indirect action on NE neurons. Twenty-five healthy young male volunteers, with no previous history of psychiatric disorders, were randomized to one of four 7-day regimens: placebo, bupropion (150 mg) once daily, bupropion (150 mg) twice a day, and methylphenidate SR (20 mg daily). To assess the activity of the NE reuptake process, the blood pressure response to intravenous tyramine was determined. A decrease in the systolic pressure response to tyramine was considered evidence of NE reuptake inhibition. Effects on 5-HT reuptake were assessed by measuring whole blood 5-HT concentration, with a decrease serving as an index of 5-HT reuptake blockade. The Profile of Mood States (POMS) scale was used to assess behavioral and psychological changes. Neither bupropion nor methylphenidate altered the tyramine pressor response, in contrast to previous data that demonstrated decreases were obtained with NE reuptake inhibitors. Neither drug modified 5-HT concentrations. However, POMS scores revealed that bupropion at a dosage of 150 mg/day increased composedness, agreeability, and energy, whereas 300 mg/day improved only attention. In contrast, methylphenidate improved only energy. These data provide no evidence that bupropion acts as an inhibitor of NE or 5-HT reuptake in healthy humans. Presumably it enhances synaptic availability of NE by increasing release. Yet, because its behavioral profile is different from that of methylphenidate, it may not share all the biochemical properties of psychostimulants.
pH and energy dependent transport of ketoprofen across rat jejunum in vitro.	The aim of this study was to elucidate transport mechanisms of ketoprofen (monocarboxylic acid with pK(a) 4.6) across rat jejunum in vitro using side-by-side diffusion cells. When the tissue was incubated on the mucosal and serosal sides with buffer of pH 7.51 (pH of the mucosal surface was 7.08), ketoprofen permeated faster in the mucosal-to-serosal than in the opposite direction. No asymmetry in transport was observed when 2 mM mucus disrupting agent 1,4-dithio-DL-threitol (pH of the mucosal surface increased to 7.21) was added to the mucosal side. Mucosal-to-serosal permeability of ketoprofen increased three times when the pH of the incubation medium was changed from 8.06 (pH of the mucosal surface was 7.34) to 6.07 (pH of the mucosal surface was 5.95), while no pH dependence was found under ATP-depletion caused by sodium azide. In the ketoprofen concentration range from 0.125 to 5 mM no saturation of transport was observed. Moreover, ketoprofen transport was not changed in the presence of 2 mM benzoate, 10 and 20 mM acetate, 20 mM L-lactate (substrates for monocarboxylate transporter 1, MCT1) and 1 mM alpha-cyano-4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid (an inhibitor of MCT1). These results indicate that ketoprofen is transported across rat jejunum in vitro by pH and energy dependent transport mechanisms, and most probably not by MCT1.
Phenotypical evidence for a gender difference in cardiac norepinephrine transporter function.	Norepinephrine transporter (NET) function has a central role in the regulation of synaptic norepinephrine concentrations. Clinical observations in orthostatic intolerance patients suggest a gender difference in NET function. We compared the cardiovascular response to selective NET inhibition with reboxetine between 12 healthy men and 12 age-matched women. Finger blood pressure, brachial blood pressure, and heart rate were measured. The subjects underwent cardiovascular autonomic reflex testing and a graded head-up tilt test. In a separate study, we applied incremental concentrations of tyramine and isoproterenol through subcutaneous microdialysis catheters in eight men and in eight women. NET inhibition elicited a threefold greater increase in supine blood pressure in men than women (P < 0.05). The pressor response was driven by an increased cardiac output. The orthostatic heart rate increase during NET inhibition was greater in men than women (56 +/- 5 beats/min in men, 42 +/- 4 beats/min in women, P < 0.001). In contrast, NET inhibition resulted in a similar suppression in the cold pressor and handgrip response, low-frequency blood pressure oscillations, and venous norepinephrine in the supine position. Men and women were similarly sensitive to the lipolytic effect of isoproterenol and tyramine. We conclude that NET inhibition results in more pronounced changes in cardiac regulation in men than women. Our observations suggest that the NET contribution to cardiac norepinephrine turnover may be decreased in women. The gender difference in NET function may not be expressed in tissues that are less NET dependent than the heart.
Characterization of novel L-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate derivatives, potent blockers of the glutamate transporters.	Nontransportable blockers of the glutamate transporters are important tools for investigating mechanisms of synaptic transmission. DL-threo-beta-Benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA) is a potent blocker of all subtypes of the excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). We characterized novel L-TBOA analogs possessing a substituent on their respective benzene rings. The analogs significantly inhibited labeled glutamate uptake, the most potent of which was (2S,3S)-3-[3-[4-(trifluoromethyl)benzoylamino]benzyloxy]aspartate (TFB-TBOA). In an uptake assay using cells transiently expressing EAATs, the IC(50) values of TFB-TBOA for EAAT1, EAAT2, and EAAT3 were 22, 17, and 300 nM, respectively. TFB-TBOA was significantly more potent at inhibiting EAAT1 and EAAT2 compared with L-TBOA (IC(50) values for EAAT1-3 were 33, 6.2, and 15 microM, respectively). Electrophysiological analyses revealed that TBOA analogs block the transport-associated currents in all five EAAT subtypes and also block leak currents in EAAT5. The rank order of the analogs for potencies at inhibiting substrate-induced currents was identical to that observed in the uptake assay. However, the kinetics of TFBTBOA differed from the kinetics of L-TBOA, probably because of the strong binding affinity. Notably, TFB-TBOA did not affect other representative neurotransmitter transporters or receptors, including ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors, indicating that it is highly selective for EAATs. Moreover, intracerebroventricular administration of the TBOA analogs induced severe convulsive behaviors in mice, probably because of the accumulation of glutamate. Taken together, these findings indicate that novel TBOA analogs, especially TFB-TBOA, should serve as useful tools for elucidating the physiological roles of the glutamate transporters.
Clinical assessment of norepinephrine transporter blockade through biochemical and pharmacological profiles.	To assess the sensitivity of biochemical, physiological, and pharmacological markers of peripheral norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET) function, we chronically antagonized NET by a range of doses of duloxetine [(+)-N-methyl-3-(1-naphthalenyloxy)-2 thiophenepropanamine], which blocks the NE reuptake process.
Once-daily atomoxetine treatment for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, including an assessment of evening and morning behavior: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.	Atomoxetine seems to be as effective for treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) when the daily dose is administered once in the morning as when the dose is divided and administered in the morning and evening. In the present study, the efficacy of atomoxetine administered once daily among children with ADHD was assessed throughout the day, including the evening and early morning. Another goal was to determine how early in treatment it was possible to discern a specific effect of the drug on ADHD symptoms.
Cardiac reporter gene imaging using the human sodium/iodide symporter gene.	Imaging of reporter gene expression holds promise for noninvasive monitoring of cardiovascular molecular therapy. We investigated the feasibility of myocardial gene expression imaging in living rats using the human sodium/iodide symporter gene (hNIS) and widely available scintigraphic techniques.
Selective serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors: a step forward in the treatment of depression?]	With the tricyclics, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other substances, we now have available a range of medications for the treatment of depression and other psychological disorders (e.g. anxiety, panic). Nevertheless, only some of the patients experience a remission of their depressive symptoms. The occurrence of side effects and the only modest level of effectiveness result in inadequate compliance on the part of the patient. With venlafaxine and duloxetine two representatives of the selective serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SSNRI) class of antidepressants are now available. SSNRIs have a dual effect coupled with high selectivity. The present article the extent to which this particular action mechanism results in an improved clinical efficacy and tolerability profile of the SSNRIs, in particular in comparison with SSRIs.
Pertussis toxin-sensitive modulation of glutamate transport by endothelin-1 type A receptors in glioma cells.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a 21 amino acids peptide that exerts several biological activities through interaction with specific G-protein coupled receptors. Increased ET-1 expression is frequently associated with pathological situations involving alterations in glutamate levels. In the present study, a brief exposure to ET-1 was found to increase aspartate uptake in C6 glioma cells, which endogenously express the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1 (pEC50 of 9.89). The stimulatory effect of ET-1 mediated by ETA receptors corresponds to a 62% increase in the Vmax with no modification of the affinity for the substrate. While protein kinase C activity is known to participate in the regulation of EAAC1, the effect of ET-1 on the glutamate uptake was found to be independent of this kinase activation. In contrast, the inactivation of Go/i type G-protein dependent signaling with pertussis toxin was found to impair ET-1-mediated regulation of EAAC1. An examination of the cell surface expression of EAAC1 by protein biotinylation studies or by confocal analysis of immuno-fluorescence staining demonstrated that ET-1 stimulates EAAC1 translocation to the cell surface. Hence, the disruption of the cytoskeleton with cytochalasin D prevented ET-1-stimulated aspartate uptake. Together, the data presented in the current study suggest that ET-1 participates in the acute regulation of glutamate transport in glioma cells. Considering the documented role of glutamate excitotoxicity in the development of brain tumors, endothelinergic system constitutes a putative target for the pharmacological control of glutamate transmission at the vicinity of glioma cells.
Indirect regulation of the intestinal H+-coupled amino acid transporter hPAT1 (SLC36A1).	A H(+)-coupled amino acid transporter has been characterised functionally at the brush border membrane of the human intestinal cell line Caco-2. This carrier, hPAT1 (human Proton-coupled Amino acid Transporter 1) or SLC36A1, has been identified recently at the molecular level and hPAT1 protein is localised to the brush border membrane of human small intestine. hPAT1 transports both amino acids (e.g., beta-alanine) and therapeutic agents (e.g., D-cycloserine). In human Caco-2 cells, hPAT1 function (H(+)/amino acid symport) is associated with a decrease in intracellular pH (pH(i)), which selectively activates the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger NHE3, and thus maintains pH(i) and the driving force for hPAT1 function (the H(+) electrochemical gradient). This study provides the first evidence for regulation of hPAT1 function. Activation of the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway in Caco-2 cell monolayers either using pharmacological tools (forskolin, 8-br-cAMP, [(11,22,28)Ala]VIP) or physiological activators (the neuropeptides VIP and PACAP) inhibited hPAT1 function (beta-alanine uptake) at the apical membrane. Under conditions where NHE3 is inactive (the absence of Na(+), apical pH 5.5, the presence of the NHE3 inhibitor S1611) no regulation of beta-alanine uptake is observed. Forskolin and VIP inhibit pH(i) recovery (NHE3 function) from beta-alanine-induced intracellular acidification. Immunocytochemistry localises NHERF1 (NHE3 regulatory factor 1) to the apical portion of Caco-2 cells where it will interact with NHE3 and allow PKA-mediated phosphorylation of NHE3. In conclusion, we have shown that amino acid uptake via hPAT1 is inhibited by activators of the cAMP pathway indirectly through inhibition of NHE3 activity.
Vinylogous amide analogs of methylphenidate.	In an effort to produce compounds with longer durations of action, we attempted to synthesize ketone analogs of methylphenidate which, however, appear to be highly unstable due to a highly acidic proton alpha to the ketone and phenyl groups. Nevertheless, vinylogous amide by products have been synthesized and tested for activity at dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin transporters. The compounds were found to be weak inhibitors of monoamine reuptake despite rigid three dimensional structures that are quite similar to the global minimum of threo-(R,R)-methylphenidate. The structures were confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
Interhelical packing modulates conformational flexibility in the lactose permease of Escherichia coli.	A key to obtaining an X-ray structure of the lactose permease of Escherichia coli (LacY) (Abramson, J., Smirnova, I., Kasho, V., Verner, G., Kaback, H. R., and Iwata, S. (2003) Science 301, 549-716) was the use of a mutant in which Cys154 (helix V) is replaced with Gly. LacY containing this mutation strongly favors an inward-facing conformation, which binds ligand with high affinity, but catalyzes little transport and exhibits few if any of the ligand-dependent conformational changes observed with wild-type LacY. The X-ray structure demonstrates that helix V crosses helix I in the approximate middle of the membrane in such a manner that Cys154 lies close to Gly24 (helix I). Therefore, it seems likely that replacing Cys154 with Gly may lead to tighter packing between helices I and V, thereby resulting in the phenotype observed. Consistently, replacement of Gly24 with Cys in the C154G mutant rescues significant transport activity, and the mutant exhibits properties similar to wild-type LacY with respect to substrate binding and thermostability. However, the only other replacements that rescue transport to any extent whatsoever are Val and Asp, both of which are much less effective than Cys. The results suggest that, although helix packing probably plays an important role with respect to the properties of the C154G mutant, the ability of Cys at position 24 to rescue transport activity of C154G is more complicated than simple replacement of bulk between positions 24 and 154. Rather, activity is dependent on more subtle interactions between the helices, and mutations that disrupt interactions between helix IV and loop 6-7 or between helices II and IV also rescue transport in the C154G mutant.
Novel 2-N,N-dimethylaminomethyl-2,3,3a,12b-tetrahydrodibenzo[b,f]furo[2,3-d]oxepin derivatives displaying combined norepinephrine reuptake inhibition and 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonism.	A novel series of cis-fused 2-N,N-dimethylaminomethyl-2,3,3a,12b-tetrahydrodibenzo[b,f]furo[2,3-d]oxepin derivatives modified at position C-11 was prepared and evaluated for its potential antidepressant/anxiolytic properties. In vitro affinities for the norepinephrine transporter and for 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors, as well as the ED(50) values obtained in some in vivo assays predictive for antidepressant and anxiolytic potential are reported.
Treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: overview of the evidence.	The American Academy of Pediatrics' Committee on Quality Improvement, Subcommittee on Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, reviewed and analyzed the current literature for the purpose of developing an evidence-based clinical practice guideline for the treatment of the school-aged child with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This review included several key reports, including an evidence review from the McMaster Evidence-Based Practice Center (supported by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality), a report from the Canadian Coordinating Office for Health Technology Assessment, the Multimodal Treatment for ADHD comparative clinical trial (supported by the National Institute of Mental Health), and supplemental reviews conducted by the subcommittee. These reviews provided substantial information about different treatments for ADHD and their efficacy in improving certain characteristics or outcomes for children with ADHD as well as adverse effects and benefits of multiple modes of treatment compared with single modes (eg, medication or behavior therapies alone). The reviews also compared the effects of different medications. Other evidence documents the long-term nature of ADHD in children and its classification as a chronic condition, meriting the application of general concepts of chronic-condition management, including an individual treatment plan with a focus on ongoing parent and child education, management, and monitoring. The evidence strongly supports the use of stimulant medications for treating the core symptoms of children with ADHD and, to a lesser degree, for improving functioning. Behavior therapy alone has only limited effect on symptoms or functioning of children with ADHD, although combining behavior therapy with medication seems to improve functioning and may decrease the amount of (stimulant) medication needed. Comparison among stimulants (mainly methylphenidate and amphetamines) did not indicate that 1 class outperformed the other.
Activation of vagal afferents in the rat duodenum by protein digests requires PepT1.	Intestinal infusion of protein digests activates a vago-vagal reflex inhibition of gastric motility. Protein digests release cholecystokinin (CCK) from enteroendocrine cells; however, the precise cellular mechanisms leading to vagal afferent activation is unclear. The hypothesis that the oligopeptide transporter PepT1 plays a major role in the initiation of this vago-vagal reflex was tested by recording activation of duodenal vagal afferent activity and inhibition of gastric motility in response to protein hydrolysates in the presence of 4-aminomethylbenzoic acid (4-AMBA), a competitive inhibitor of PepT1, or 4-aminophenylacetic acid (4-APAA), an inactive 4-AMBA analog. Duodenal infusion of the protein hydrolysate increased vagal afferent discharge and inhibited gastric motility; these responses were abolished by concomitant infusion of 4-AMBA, but not 4-APAA. Duodenal infusion with Cefaclor, a substrate of PepT1, increased duodenal vagal afferent activity; Cefaclor and protein hydrolysates selectively activated CCK-responsive vagal afferents. This study demonstrates that products of protein digestion increase spontaneous activity of CCK-sensitive duodenal vagal afferents via a mechanism involving the oligopeptide transporter PepT1.
Clinical trials of new therapeutic pharmacology for sickle cell disease]	Following the generation of transgenic mouse models of sickle cell disease, pre-clinical trials have shown the beneficial effects of various potential therapeutic molecules for the acute or chronic manifestations of the disease. Several molecules are upon evaluation in phase I to phase III clinical trials. These therapeutic approaches target: 1) membrane cation transport systems and channels involved in sickle cell dehydration; 2) adherence of erythrocytes to endothelium; 3) activation of circulating and endothelial cells participating in the vasoocclusive events and local ischemia. The Gardos channel (calcium activated potassium channel KCNN4) is inhibited by the clotrimazole metabolite ICA17043, in phase III trial. The K-Cl co-transport (KCC1/3/4) activated by the depletion of erythrocyte magnesium is inhibited by Magnesium pidolate; dipyridamole inhibits ion transports upon deoxygenation. Sulfasalazyne (inhibitor of the NF-jB pathway) inhibits the abnormal activation of endothelial cells. Nitric oxide (NO) is the most potent vasodilator. It prevents the activation of leucocytes, platelets and endothelial cells in patients with sickle cell disease and vascular remodelling. The L-arginine, the NO precursor, provides could be beneficial in sickle cell patients.
The sodium-iodine symporter and the proton-pump inhibitors in - related to the side effects of- the treatment of thyroid cancer with iodine-131.	Iodine-131 ((131)I) administered to patients for imaging or treatment, concentrates in the gastrointestinal tract, including the salivary glands, stomach and bowel. In Nuclear Medicine practice this biological property of iodine causes side effects when the therapeutic dose of (131)I is large. This occurs during the treatment of patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC). During this clinical application, the dose of (131)I is higher than 3.7 GBq. Side effects of this treatment with respect to the stomach, include gastritis as an inflammatory reaction to radiation, anorexia due to gastric atrophy and rarely megaloblastic anemia due to lack of the endogenous factor. Side effects can also include xerostomia. We have recently tried to prevent gastric side effects by prescribing proton pump inhibitors (PPI) for patients with DTC prior to treatment with (131)I. PPI block the excretion of hydrochloric acid from the gastric mucosa and are utilized for the prevention and treatment of gastritis, gastric ulcers and gastroesophageal reflux. Whole body scans before or after the administration of PPI, showed that PPI do not interfere with the biologic distribution of (131)I. These findings were not surprising. Recent studies in animals and humans have shown that the accumulation and concentration of iodine by the thyroid gland is the result of the selective action of sodium iodine symporter (Na+I+symporter, NIS). Furthermore, it was shown that the accumulation and concentration of (131)I in the parietal cells of the gastric mucosa, the ductal cells of the salivary glands and the alveolar epithelial cells of the mammary glands, is analogous to the biologic action of NIS in the thyroid cells. The gastric mucosa accumulates iodine from the capillaries via the extracellular/extravascular space and finally excretes it into the lumen of the stomach, from where it is passively transferred into the bowel, where it is partially reabsorbed to once again enter its metabolic cycle. On the contrary, as it is now known, the PPI have an entirely different metabolic action, which is unrelated to that of the NIS, although both mechanisms coexist in the parietal cells of the gastric mucosa. Thus, during the application of (131)I for imaging or for the treatment of DTC patients, except for the short period of time immediately after the oral administration, when the radionuclide passes through the stomach, the concentration of (131)I in the gastrointestinal tract is due to its active accumulation and excretion by the gastric mucosa. PPI act only on the hydrochloric acid secretion not affecting the biologic properties of iodine.
Colesevelam improves insulin resistance in a diet-induced obesity (F-DIO) rat model by increasing the release of GLP-1.	Bile acid sequestrants have been shown to lower glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes. To investigate how colesevelam (CL) HCl improves hyperglycemia, studies were conducted in diet-induced obesity (F-DIO) rats, which develop insulin resistance when fed a high-energy (high fat/high sucrose) diet (HE). The rats were fed HE; HE + 2% CL; HE + 0.02% SC-435 (SC), an apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter inhibitor; and regular chow (controls). After 4 wk of treatment, both in the HE group and the SC + HE group, plasma glucose and insulin levels remained elevated compared with baseline values throughout an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). In contrast, in the CL + HE group, plasma glucose levels returned to baseline by the end of the test, and insulin peaked in 15-30 min and then returned to baseline. CL induced release of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) because the area under the curve of plasma total GLP-1 in the CL + HE group was significantly greater than in the HE group during the OGTT. Bile acid concentrations in the portal blood did not decrease in the HE group but declined significantly both in the CL + HE and SC + HE groups with reduced farnesoid X receptor activation compared with controls. We concluded that CL reduces plasma glucose levels by improving insulin resistance in this rat model. It is unlikely that the improvement is attributable to decreased bile acid flux to the liver but is likely secondary to induced GLP-1 secretion, which improves insulin release.
Downregulation of potassium chloride cotransporter KCC2 after transient focal cerebral ischemia.	The potassium chloride cotransporter 2 (KCC2) is the main neuronal chloride extruder in the adult nervous system. Therefore, KCC2 is responsible for an inwardly directed electrochemical gradient of chloride that leads to hyperpolarizing GABA-mediated responses. Under some pathophysiological conditions, GABA has been reported to be depolarizing because of a downregulation of KCC2. This is the first study to our knowledge analyzing the expression of KCC2 after a focal cerebral ischemia.
Green tea catechin EGCG inhibits ileal apical sodium bile acid transporter ASBT.	Green tea catechins exhibit hypocholesterolemic effects probably via their inhibitory effects on intestinal bile acid absorption. Ileal apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (ASBT) is responsible for reabsorption of bile acids. The present studies were, therefore, designed to investigate the modulation of ASBT function and membrane expression by green tea catechins in human embryonic kidney HEK-293 cells stably transfected with ASBT-V5 fusion protein and intestinal Caco-2 monolayers. Our data showed that ASBT activity was significantly decreased by (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) but not other green tea catechins. Inhibition of PKC, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and MAPK-dependent pathways failed to block the reduction in ASBT activity by EGCG. Kinetics studies showed a significant decrease in the V(max) of the transporter, whereas total ASBT content on the plasma membrane was unaltered by EGCG. Concomitant with the decrease in ASBT function, EGCG significantly reduced ASBT pool in the detergent-insoluble fraction, while increasing its presence in the detergent-soluble fraction of plasma membrane. Furthermore, EGCG decreased the association of ASBT with floating lipid raft fractions of cellular membrane on Optiprep density gradient. In conclusion, our data demonstrate a novel role of lipid rafts in the modulation of ASBT function by the dietary component EGCG, which may underlie the hypocholesterolemic effects of green tea.
Perchlorate, iodine and the thyroid.	In pharmacologic doses, perchlorate inhibits thyroidal iodine uptake and subsequently decreases thyroid hormone production. Although pharmacologic doses may be used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism, recent literature has focussed on the detection of low levels of perchlorate in the environment, groundwater and foodstuffs and their potential adverse effects on human thyroid function. This is of particular concern to the developing foetus and infant, whose normal neurodevelopment depends on adequate iodine intake for the production of thyroid hormones. Further research is needed to clarify the potential health effects of low-level chronic environmental perchlorate exposure. The health impact of environmental perchlorate may be dependent upon adequate iodine intake and should be interpreted in combination with other environmental exposures that are also potential thyroidal endocrine disruptors.
Synthesis and in vitro evaluation of gabapentin prodrugs that target the human apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (hASBT).	Gabapentin is a zwitterionic drug that exhibits low and variable oral absorption at therapeutic doses. The human apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (hASBT; SLC10A2) is a potential prodrug target to increase oral drug absorption. The objective was to evaluate several bile acid conjugates of gabapentin as potential prodrugs that target hASBT. Five analogues were synthesized and varied in ionic nature and the presence or absence of glutamic acid linker between the bile acid and drug. Analogues were evaluated for their inhibition and uptake properties using stably transfected hASBT-MDCK cells. The two monoanionic conjugates were potent hASBT substrates, with high affinity (K(m) of 16.3 and 5.99 μM) and high capacity (V(max) of 0.656 and 0.842 pmol/cm(2) /s). The dianionic conjugate inhibited hASBT with moderate potency but was not a substrate. The two monoanionic conjugates were catalytically degraded in Caco-2 homogenate and rat liver microsomes. Each yielded gabapentin from prodrug. These two conjugates are novel prodrugs of gabapentin and illustrate prodrugs that can be designed to target hASBT.
Nitric oxide-mediated inhibition of taurocholate uptake involves S-nitrosylation of NTCP.	The sodium-taurocholate (TC) cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP) facilitates bile formation by mediating sinusoidal Na(+)-TC cotransport. During sepsis-induced cholestasis, there is a decrease in NTCP-dependent uptake of bile acids and an increase in nitric oxide (NO) levels in hepatocytes. In rat hepatocytes NO inhibits Na(+)-dependent uptake of taurocholate. The aim of this study was to extend these findings to human NTCP and to further investigate the mechanism by which NO inhibits TC uptake. Using a human hepatoma cell line stably expressing NTCP (HuH-NTCP), we performed experiments with the NO donors sodium nitroprusside and S-nitrosocysteine and demonstrated that NO inhibits TC uptake in these cells. Kinetic analyses revealed that NO significantly decreased the V(max) but not the K(m) of TC uptake by NTCP, indicating noncompetitive inhibition. NO decreased the amount of NTCP in the plasma membrane, providing a molecular mechanism for the noncompetitive inhibition of TC uptake. One way that NO can modify protein function is through a posttranslational modification known as S-nitrosylation: the binding of NO to cysteine thiols. Using a biotin switch technique we observed that NTCP is S-nitrosylated under conditions in which NO inhibits TC uptake. Moreover, dithiothreitol reversed NO-mediated inhibition of TC uptake and S-nitrosylation of NTCP, indicating that NO inhibits TC uptake via modification of cysteine thiols. In addition, NO treatment led to a decrease in Ntcp phosphorylation. Taken together these results indicate that the inhibition of TC uptake by NO involves S-nitrosylation of NTCP.
Enrichment of nuclear red blood cells by membrane KCC transporter with urea intervention.	Intervention by membrane KCC transporter interfering selectively could promote about 5 times enrichment of nuclear red blood cells.
Protein hydrolysate-induced cholecystokinin secretion from enteroendocrine cells is indirectly mediated by the intestinal oligopeptide transporter PepT1.	Dietary protein is a major stimulant for cholecystokinin (CCK) secretion by the intestinal I cell, however, the mechanism by which protein is detected is unknown. Indirect functional evidence suggests that PepT1 may play a role in CCK-mediated changes in gastric motor function. However, it is unclear whether this oligopeptide transporter directly or indirectly activates the I cell. Using both the CCK-expressing enteroendocrine STC-1 cell and acutely isolated native I cells from CCK-enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) mice, we aimed to determine whether PepT1 directly activates the enteroendocrine cell to elicit CCK secretion in response to oligopeptides. Both STC-1 cells and isolated CCK-eGFP cells expressed PepT1 transcripts. STC-1 cells were activated, as measured by ERK(1/2) phosphorylation, by both peptone and the PepT1 substrate Cefaclor; however, the PepT1 inhibitor 4-aminomethyl benzoic acid (AMBA) had no effect on STC-1 cell activity. The PepT1-transportable substrate glycyl-sarcosine dose-dependently decreased gastric motility in anesthetized rats but had no affect on activation of STC-1 cells or on CCK secretion by CCK-eGFP cells. CCK secretion was significantly increased in response to peptone but not to Cefaclor, cephalexin, or Phe-Ala in CCK-eGFP cells. Taken together, the data suggest that PepT1 does not directly mediate CCK secretion in response to PepT1 specific substrates. PepT1, instead, may have an indirect role in protein sensing in the intestine.
Towards a KCC2 blocker pharmacophore model.	A multi-disciplinary approach was used to identify the first pharmacophore model for KCC2 blockers: several physico-chemical studies such as XRD and NMR were combined to molecular modelling techniques, SAR analysis and synthesis of constrained analogues in order to determine a minimal conformational space regrouping few potential bioactive conformations. These conformations were further compared to the conformational space of a different series of KCC2 blockers in order to identify the common pharmacophoric features. The synthesis of more potent analogues in this second series confirmed the usefulness of this KCC2 blocker pharmacophore model.
Calcium-sensing receptor mediates dietary peptide-induced CCK secretion in enteroendocrine STC-1 cells.	Dietary peptides are potent stimulators of cholecystokinin (CCK) secretion, but the sensing mechanism in CCK-producing cells is poorly understood. Recently, it has been demonstrated that the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) mediates CCK secretion induced by amino acids. We investigated the role of CaSR in CCK secretions induced by various protein hydrolysates (egg albumin, meat, casein, azuki bean, soybean ß-conglycinin, and potato) in the enteroendocrine cell line STC-1.
Cyclosporin A inhibits hepatitis B and hepatitis D virus entry by cyclophilin-independent interference with the NTCP receptor.	Chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis D are global health problems caused by the human hepatitis B and hepatitis D virus. The myristoylated preS1 domain of the large envelope protein mediates specific binding to hepatocytes by sodium taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP). NTCP is a bile salt transporter known to be inhibited by cyclosporin A. This study aimed to characterize the effect of cyclosporin A on HBV/HDV infection.
Cyclosporin A and its analogs inhibit hepatitis B virus entry into cultured hepatocytes through targeting a membrane transporter, sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP).	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major public health problem worldwide. Although nucleos(t)ide analogs inhibiting viral reverse transcriptase are clinically available as anti-HBV agents, emergence of drug-resistant viruses highlights the need for new anti-HBV agents interfering with other targets. Here we report that cyclosporin A (CsA) can inhibit HBV entry into cultured hepatocytes. The anti-HBV effect of CsA was independent of binding to cyclophilin and calcineurin. Rather, blockade of HBV infection correlated with the ability to inhibit the transporter activity of sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP). We also found that HBV infection-susceptible cells, differentiated HepaRG cells and primary human hepatocytes expressed NTCP, while nonsusceptible cell lines did not. A series of compounds targeting NTCP could inhibit HBV infection. CsA inhibited the binding between NTCP and large envelope protein in vitro. Evaluation of CsA analogs identified a compound with higher anti-HBV potency, having a median inhibitory concentration <0.2 μM.
