Peripheral effects of morphine in neuropathic rats: role of sympathetic postganglionic nerve fibers.	We studied the contribution of peripheral opioid receptors to the morphine-induced antinociception in rats with a spinal nerve ligation-induced neuropathy. Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of morphine produced a stronger suppression of nociceptive reflex responses of the neuropathic limb following ipsilateral, than contralateral, administration, whereas the morphine-induced effect on the control limb was independent of the injection side. Antinociception induced by systemically administered morphine was significantly attenuated by i.pl. injection of a peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonist in neuropathic but not in sham-operated rats. Following chemical sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine, antinociception was achieved at a lower dose ipsilaterally, than contralaterally, following i.pl. administration of morphine, and the morphine-induced antinociception was attenuated by a peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonist. These results indicate that peripheral opioid receptors may contribute to the morphine-induced antinociception in the spinal nerve ligation-induced model of neuropathy. Sympathectomy of the neuropathic limb may underlie, at least partly, the increased peripheral efficacy of morphine in neuropathy.
Effect of chemical sympathectomy on myoelectric activity of the small bowel]	Central and peripheral noradrenergic system modulates myoelectric activity of the small bowel. Aim of this study was to evaluate the role of peripheral noradrenergic system in modulation of slow waves activity. Recordings of slow waves were performed on 20 conscious rats chronically fitted with 2 unipolar electrodes. After controls recording the animals were injected i.p. with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA--Sigma H8523) and the recording were performed on daily basis through the period of one month.
Effects of GDNF on 6-OHDA-induced death in a dopaminergic cell line: modulation by inhibitors of PI3 kinase and MEK.	Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with the selective death of dopaminergic neurons. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) can protect dopaminergic neurons in several parkinsonian models. We used the dopaminergic cell line MN9D to explore the mechanisms underlying GDNF-mediated protection against the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). MN9D cell viability was decreased 24 hr after a 15-min exposure to 6-OHDA (50-1000 microM) as revealed by staining with Hoechst reagent and Trypan blue. The addition of GDNF (10 ng/ml) before, during, and after exposure to 6-OHDA significantly increased the number of viable cells as assessed by Hoechst staining. In contrast, 6-OHDA-induced cell membrane damage was unaffected as measured by Trypan blue exclusion. The PI3K specific inhibitor LY294002 (10-50 microM) blocked GDNF-mediated protection against nuclear condensation, as did the MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126 (5- 20 microM). These studies suggest that GDNF can protect dopaminergic cells against some but not all aspects of 6-OHDA-induced toxicity by acting through both PI3K and MAPK signaling pathways.
Firing regulation in dopaminergic cells: effect of the partial degeneration of nigrostriatal system in surviving neurons.	Two mechanisms for firing rate regulation were identified in dopaminergic nigrostriatal cells (DA cells), one of a renewal nature which prevents short and long interspike intervals (ISIs) and the other of a no-renewal nature which compensates long ISIs with short ISIs and vice versa. Renewal regulation was found in 96% of DA cells and less frequently in nigrocollicular (63%), nigrothalamic (61%) and nigropeduncular (50%) nigral GABA cells. No-renewal regulation was found in 77% of DA cells, and was only observed in 8% of GABA cells. Thus, most DA cells showed both regulatory mechanisms, which justifies the low variability in their firing rate and the low oscillation of extracellular striatal dopamine previously reported. DA cells surviving a partial degeneration of the nigrostriatal system did not show alterations in their firing rate and burst firing but presented a marked disturbance for no-renewal regulation. Under these conditions, small fluctuations in firing rate are not compensated for in time, which could be one of the factors responsible for the motor fluctuations often observed in advanced Parkinson's disease.
Implantation of human amniotic epithelial cells prevents the degeneration of nigral dopamine neurons in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions.	We recently found that human amniotic epithelial (HAE) cells secrete biologically active neurotrophins such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3, both of which exhibit trophic activities on dopamine (DA) neurons. The present study explored whether implantation of HAE cells can be a possible means to deliver trophic factors into the brain to prevent the death of DA neurons in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. We first investigated the ability of HAE cells to produce factors capable of promoting DA cell survival in vitro, and then tested whether HAE cell grafts survive and prevent the death of nigral DA neurons in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. A treatment with conditioned medium derived from HAE cell cultures enhanced the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunopositive DA cells in serum-free cultures. The conditioned medium also protected the morphological integrity of TH-positive neurons against toxic insult with 6-hydroxydopamine. HAE cells were grafted into the midbrain of immunosuppressed rats. The rats were then subjected to a unilateral nigrostriatal lesion induced by intrastriatal infusions of 6-hydroxydopamine. HAE cell transplants were found to survive without evidence for overgrowth 2 weeks postgrafting. The number of nigral DA cells, detected with either TH-immunohistochemistry or retrograde labelling with fluorogold, was significantly increased in rats given the grafts as compared to that in control animals without the grafts. The results indicate that HAE cells produce diffusible molecules that can enhance the survival of DA neurons. Although the factors that contribute to the currently observed effects remain to be fully determined, implantation of HAE cells could be a viable strategy to counteract the loss of DA neurons in Parkinson's disease.
DISTRIBUTION OF (2-BROMOETHYL)ETHYL(NAPHTH-1-YMETHYL-(14C))AMINE HYDROBROMIDE IN THE RAT.	(2-Bromoethyl)ethyl(naphth-1-ylmethyl)amine hydrobromide (SY28) is a halogenoalkylamine related to dibenamine. A dose of 10 mg/kg injected intravenously into rats antagonizes the pressor response to adrenaline for 36 hr. If this amount of SY28 labelled with (14)C in the 1-methyl position is administered, specific radioactivity is present in blood and tissues many days after the antagonism of adrenaline is relieved. The (14)C is excreted in bile and in urine, but not in expired air. It is present in fat but not to a greater extent than it is in other tissues. It does not cross the placental barrier. There is no evidence that slow release from a lipid depot accounts for the long duration of action.
INHIBITION OF SYMPATHOMIMETIC EFFECTS ON THE HEART.	The adrenaline beta-receptor blocking drug, pronethalol, and the sympathomimetic amines, (-)-ephedrine, (-)-amphetamine, dexamphetamine, (-)-Psi-ephedrine and tyramine, inhibited the sympathomimetic effects of butyrylcholine and tyramine on the guinea-pig isolated atrium. Being reversible and noncompetitive, this antagonism was unspecific and not due to blockade of adrenaline receptors, although pronethalol inhibited the effect of noradrenaline competitively.
THE EFFECTS OF DRUGS ON THE UPTAKE OF AMINES BY MAST CELLS.	Neoplastic mast cells, taken from an ascitic tumour in mice and incubated in vitro, took up (14)C-labelled 5-hydroxytryptamine and histamine from the medium. Uptake during the first hour gave an approximate measure of the initial rate. The amount of each amine taken up in this time was determined by bioassay and by radioactivity, the two methods giving similar results. The curves obtained by plotting initial rate of uptake against concentration in the medium suggested that the uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine was by an active process and also by diffusion, whereas uptake of histamine was by diffusion only. The cells also took up (14)C-labelled (+/-)-noradrenaline and tryptamine, apparently by diffusion. The active uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine was inhibited by lowering the temperature to 25 degrees C or by increasing the pH to 8.9, procedures which had little effect on histamine uptake. The effects of cocaine, imipramine, chlorpromazine, mepyramine, promethazine, phenoxybenzamine, lysergic acid diethylamide, bromolysergic acid diethylamide, methysergide, guanethidine, dichloroisoprenaline and pronethalol on the uptake of amines were examined. In general, any antagonist which inhibited uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine had little effect on uptake of histamine, and vice versa. Possible ways in which these antagonists produce their effects on amine uptake are discussed. A high concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine, of tryptamine or of noradrenaline inhibited uptake of histamine, but only tryptamine decreased uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine. These results, together with those from experiments with antagonists, suggest that there are specific binding sites for 5-hydroxtryptamine in these cells.
Upregulation of striatal adenosine A2A receptor mRNA in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats intermittently treated with L-DOPA.	To determine whether the adenosine A2A receptor might play a role in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease, we analyzed changes in the expression of A2A receptor mRNA in response to intermittent treatment with L-DOPA in rats with dopaminergic denervation by 6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA) infusion into the medial forebrain bundle. Intermittent treatment with L-DOPA increased A2A receptor mRNA levels in the dopamine-depleted striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibiting behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA. These results suggest that A2A receptor activation is associated with the development of motor complications induced by L-DOPA treatment.
Evaluation of metaiodobenzylguanidine heart and lung extraction fraction by first-pass analysis in pigs.	Metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) is a norepinephrine analog that can be used to study cardiac sympathetic innervation. Most of the kinetic data on MIBG, however, have been obtained in vitro from adrenal chromaffin cells. To elucidate MIBG cardiac kinetics in vivo, we measured the first-pass extraction fraction (EF) of MIBG in pig heart and lungs and determined the relationship between the cardiac EF and myocardial blood flow (MBF) before and after dipyridamole, cocaine and imipramine. The first-pass lung EF was 24% +/- 0.80% (mean +/- s.e.). The baseline cardiac EF of MIBG was 79% +/- 1.6%. With dipyridamole, MBF increase significantly and the EF fell (82% +/- 2.5% to 71% +/- 3.5% baseline compared to 0.03 mg/kg/min dipyridamole, p less than 0.001), indicating that the cardiac EF of MIBG is dependent on MBF. Cocaine infusion had no effect on MBF or EF. Imipramine caused a significant increase in the EF (72% +/- 3.5% versus 77% +/- 2.5%, baseline versus imipramine p = 0.032) without a change in MBF. In adrenal chromaffin cells, cocaine and imipramine decrease MIBG uptake, suggesting that adrenal chromaffin cells may be an inappropriate model for studying MIBG kinetics in cardiac sympathetic neurons.
Chronic treatment with the mGlu5R antagonist MPEP reduces the functional effects of the mGlu5R agonist CHPG in the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats: possible relevance to the effects of mGlu5R blockade in Parkinson's disease.	This study was designed to test whether chronic treatment with the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5R) antagonist MPEP showed antiparkinsonian effects in rats unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) (a "classic" model of Parkinson's disease, PD), and to evaluate whether chronic MPEP influenced the functional properties and/or the expression of striatal mGlu5Rs. Wistar rats were lesioned with 6-OHDA and then treated with MPEP (3 mg/kg/day, i.p.) or its vehicle over 2 weeks. Chronic MPEP did not induce measurable antiparkinsonian effects, since no differences were found between MPEP- and vehicle-treated animals in the pattern of L-DOPA-induced contralateral rotations. In corticostriatal slices taken from animals chronically treated with MPEP, the functional effects of the mGlu5R agonist CHPG were significantly reduced in the lesioned vs. the intact side, while no changes were found in slices taken from vehicle-treated rats. The binding of [3H]MPEP to striatal membranes showed that neither the maximal number of binding sites (Bmax) nor the dissociation constant (Kd) were changed by the lesion and/or by chronic MPEP. While chronic MPEP did not potentiate L-DOPA-induced turning in a classical model of PD, its ability to reduce mGlu5R-associated signal could help to explain the neuroprotective/antiparkinsonian effects observed in other models of PD.
Simvastatin reverses the downregulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor expression in the prefrontal cortex of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced Parkinsonian rats.	Sprague-Dawley rats with unilateral lesion of the medial forebrain bundle by 6-hydroxydopamine showed marked decrease in the expression of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the prefrontal cortex. Simvastatin (10 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks) restored receptor expression to control levels. Given the association of dopaminergic dysfunction in the prefrontal cortex and cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease, these findings may have implication in the treatment of cognitive decline in advanced Parkinson's disease.
Use of the narrow beam test in the rat, 6-hydroxydopamine model of Parkinson's disease.	Batteries of behavioural tests provide a method by which researchers may examine specific functional pathways. The narrow beam test examines the ability of a rat to cross a narrow, elevated beam of wood or other material. In order to determine the utility of the narrow beam test in the study of Parkinsonism, it was of interest to characterise the performance of animals at this task. Rats were placed at one end of a 105 cm long, elevated beam and both the time it took to begin crossing the beam, as well as the total time taken to cross the beam, were measured. The effects of training, time of day and 6-hydroxydopamine lesion on beam performance were examined. Rats reached maximal performance at the task within a single test session and time of day had no effect on beam performance. Parkinsonian rats demonstrated a four-fold increase in both the latency to initiate the task and the total time to cross the beam (p < 0.05).
Metabolic activity of cerebellar and basal ganglia-thalamic neurons is reduced in parkinsonism.	We have examined whether degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons causes dysfunction of both the basal ganglia-thalamic and cerebello-thalamic pathways. Changes in the activity of thalamic neurons receiving input from the basal ganglia or the cerebellum were examined in two models of Parkinson's disease, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys. Metabolic activity of the neurons was evaluated at the cellular level by quantitative in situ hybridization, using the expression of messenger RNA for subunit I of cytochrome oxidase (COI), encoded by the mitochondrial genome, as the marker. COI mRNA expression decreased significantly in thalamocortical neurons receiving input from the substantia nigra (-50.6%) or the cerebellum (-45%) in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats compared with controls. The decrease was observed in all thalamic neurons whether or not they were retrogradely labelled with a tracer injected into the motor cortex. Similarly, COI mRNA expression decreased in projection neurons and interneurons of the thalamus receiving input from the substantia nigra (-39 and -38%, respectively), the internal pallidum (-20 and -42.4%, respectively) and the cerebellum (-36.2 and -50%, respectively) of MPTP-treated monkeys compared with controls. These decreases in COI mRNA levels show that nigrostriatal denervation results in a decrease in the metabolic activity of thalamic neurons in the territories innervated by the substantia nigra, pallidum and cerebellum, which in turn is indicative of a decrease in their neuronal activity. The decrease did not concern the entire thalamus, however, since metabolic activity was unchanged in two thalamic nuclei considered to be limbic structures, the laterodorsal nucleus in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats and the anterior nucleus in MPTP-treated monkeys. Hypoactivity of both the basal ganglia-thalamic and cerebellar-thalamic pathways might therefore be implicated in the development of parkinsonian symptoms.
Congenital myocardial sympathetic dysinnervation (CMSD)--a structural defect of idiopathic long QT syndrome.	Concerning the pathogenetic mechanism of idiopathic long QT syndrome (LQTS), the hypothesis of a specific sympathetic imbalance has gained general acceptance, but its validity has never been proven. To test this hypothesis I-123-MIBG, an analogue of norepinephrine and guanethidine, was used to provide scintigraphic display of the efferent cardiac sympathetic innervation. Twelve members of four LQTS families (mean age 38.2 +/- 17.2 years, eight males) and eight healthy volunteers (mean age 48.2 +/- 13.3 years, five males) were studied by means of I-123-MIBG single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). A quantitative analysis of all scans was performed. All scans of the healthy volunteers show a uniform tracer uptake with sometimes slightly decreased activity in the apex. (1) All patients with QTc greater than 440 msec (n = 5); (2) all, who had suffered from at least one episode of torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation (VF) or syncope (n = 5); and (3) all symptomatic patients with QTc prolongation (n = 4) have reduced or abolished (P less than 0.02) MIBG uptakes in the inferior and inferior septal parts of the left ventricle (congenital myocardial sympathetic dysinnervation [CMSD]). Additionally, one female without symptoms or QTc prolongation (LQT) shows an abnormal MIBG SPECT similar to the one of her daughter, who has LQT and symptoms. One male without LQT, who had suffered from VF shows CMSD similar to his father, who has LQT, but no symptoms. All members of the families with normal MIBG SPECTs have neither LQT nor symptoms. In all families CMSD fulfills the criteria of autosomal-dominant inheritance. Normal QTc-interval predicted only in 57% normal cardiac sympathetic innervation in the present LQTS families. Therefore, quantitative I-123-MIBG SPECT enables to identify myocardial sympathetic dysinnervation as structural defect in LQTS. CMSD is associated with and without LQT and presents a pattern of autosomal-dominant inheritance. LQT at rest or during exercise was specific (100%), but less sensitive (63%) in the assessment of CMSD than I-123-MIBG SPECT.
Electroconvulsive shock enhances striatal dopamine D1 and D3 receptor binding and improves motor performance in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.	Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a widely used and effective treatment for mood disorders and appears to have positive effects on the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), improving motor function for several weeks. Because repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS) in normal animals enhances striatal dopamine (DA) D(1) and D(3) receptor binding, we hypothesized that upregulation of D(1) and D(3) receptors may also be occurring in the parkinsonian brain after repeated ECS treatment.
Comparison of iodine scintigraphy and computerized tomography in the localization of pheochromocytoma]	A comparison is made of the results of CT scanning and MIBG scintigraphy in the localization of phaeochromocytoma. In 21 out of 24 patients with clinically diagnosed phaeochromocytoma in the University Medical Hospital, Groningen in 1983-1990, MIBG scintigraphy provided accurate localization, while in 16 out of 18 patients with phaeochromocytoma who underwent CT scanning a correct localization was obtained. False negative results were mainly present when lesions were smaller than 2 cm. There were no false positive results. It is concluded that the sensitivity of the two methods in the localization of phaeochromocytoma is about equal. The use of one of the methods rather than of both is advised.
Intracellular signaling pathways involved in post-mitotic dopaminergic PC12 cell death induced by 6-hydroxydopamine.	Oxidative stress has been shown to mediate neuron damage in Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present report, we intend to clarify the intracellular pathways mediating dopaminergic neuron death after oxidative stress production using post-mitotic PC12 cells treated with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). The use of post-mitotic cells is crucial, because one of the suggested intracellular pathways implicated in neuron death relates to the re-entry of neurons (post-mitotic cells) in the cell cycle. We find that 6-OHDA sequentially increases intracellular oxidants, functional cell damage and caspase-3 activation, leading to cell death after 12 h of incubation. Prevention of cell damage by different antioxidants supports the implication of oxidative stress in the observed neurotoxicity. Oxidative stress-dependent phosphorylation of the MAPK JNK and oxidative stress-independent PKB/Akt dephosphorylation are involved in 6-OHDA neurotoxicity. Decrease in p21(WAF1/CIP1) and cyclin-D1 expression, disappearance of the non-phosphorylated band of retinoblastoma protein (pRb), and expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, not present in PC12 post-mitotic cells, suggest a re-entry of differentiated cells into cell cycle. Our results indicate that such a re-entry is mediated by oxidative stress and is involved in 6-OHDA-induced cell death. We conclude that at least three intracellular pathways are involved in 6-OHDA-induced cell death in differentiated PC12 cells: JNK activation, cell cycle progression (both oxidative stress-dependent), and Akt dephosphorylation (not related to the increase of oxidants); the three pathways are necessary for the cells to die, since blocking one of them is sufficient to keep the cells alive.
Lowered cAMP and cGMP signalling in the brain during levodopa-induced dyskinesias in hemiparkinsonian rats: new aspects in the pathogenetic mechanisms.	Dysregulation of dopamine receptors is thought to underlie levodopa-induced dyskinesias in experimental models of Parkinson's disease. It is unknown whether an imbalance of the second messengers, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), is involved in the alterations of levodopa/dopamine signal transduction. We examined cAMP and cGMP signalling in the interconnected cortico-striatal-pallidal loop at the peak of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions in the substantia nigra. In addition, we examined the role of phosphodiesterase (PDE) and the rate of cAMP and cGMP degradation on the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in animals pretreated with PDE inhibitor, zaprinast. Unilateral lesion of substantia nigra led to an increase in cAMP but a decrease in cGMP levels in the ipsilateral basal ganglia. After chronic levodopa treatment, cAMP and cGMP were differentially regulated in eukinetic animals: the cAMP level increased in the cortex and striatum but decreased in the globus pallidus of both hemispheres, whereas the cGMP decreased below baseline levels in the contralateral cortico-striatal-pallidal regions. In dyskinetic animals chronic levodopa treatment led to an absolute decrease in cAMP and cGMP levels in cortico-striatal-pallidal regions of both hemispheres. Pretreatment with zaprinast reduced the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and partly prevented the decrease in cyclic nucleotides compared with pretreatment with saline-levodopa. In conclusion, using a rat model of hemiparkinsonism, we observed a significant reduction in the levels of cyclic nucleotides in both hemispheres at the peak of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. We propose that such a decrease in cyclic nucleotides may partly result from increased catabolism through PDE overactivity.
Chemical sympathetic denervation, suppression of myocardial transient outward potassium current, and ventricular fibrillation in the rat.	Sympathetic denervation is frequently observed in heart disease. To investigate the linkage of sympathetic denervation and cardiac arrhythmia, we developed a rat model of chemical sympathectomy by subcutaneous injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Cardiac sympathetic innervation was visualized by means of a glyoxylic catecholaminergic histofluorescence method. Transient outward current (Ito) of ventricular myocytes was recorded with the whole-cell configuration of the patch clamp technique. We observed that sympathectomy (i) decreased cardiac sympathetic nerve density and norepinephrine level, (ii) reduced the protein expression of Kv4.2, Kv1.4, and Kv channel-interacting protein 2 (KChIP2), (iii) decreased current densities and delayed activation of Ito channels, (iv) reduced the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), and (v) increased the severity of ventricular fibrillation induced by rapid pacing. Three weeks after 6-OHDA injections, which allowed time for sympathetic regeneration, we found cardiac sympathetic nerve density, norepinephrine levels, expression levels of Kv4.2 and KChIP2 proteins, and I(to) densities were partially normalized and ventricular fibrillation severity was decreased. We conclude that chemical sympathectomy downregulates the expression of selective Kv channel subunits and decreases myocardial I(to) channel activities, contributing to the elevated susceptibility to ventricular fibrillation.
Complex regional pain syndrome after dermatological surgery.	We report a case of complex regional pain syndrome developing in a 57-year-old woman after minor skin surgery in the sole of her right foot. This was diagnosed and treated in its early phase with sympathetic blockade using guanethedine with complete recovery of symptoms.
Long term behavioral effects of functional dopaminergic neurons generated from human neural stem cells in the rat 6-OH-DA Parkinson's disease model. Effects of the forced expression of BCL-X(L).	Parkinson's disease (PD) motor symptoms are caused by the progressive degeneration of ventral mesencephalic (VM) dopaminergic neurons (DAn) in the Substantia Nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Cell replacement therapy for PD is based on the concept that the implantation of DAn in the striatum can functionally restore the dopamine levels lost in the disease. In the current study we have used an immortalized human VM neural stem cell line (hVM1) that generates DAn with the A9 phenotype. We have previously found that the forced expression of Bcl-X(L) in these cells enhances DAn generation and improves, short-term, d-amphetamine-induced rotation after transplantation in the 6-OH-DA rat model of PD 2-month post-grafting. Since functional maturation of human A9 DAn in vivo requires long survival times, in the present study we investigated the behavioral amelioration induced by the transplantation of these precursors (naïve and Bcl-X(L)-modified) in the striatum of Parkinsonian rats for up to 5 months. The main findings observed are an improvement on drug-induced behaviour and importantly, in spontaneous behavior tests for both cell-transplanted groups. Finally, we have also tested whether the grafts could ameliorate cognitive performance in PD, in addition to motor deficits. Significant difference was observed for T-maze alternation test in the cell-transplanted animals as compared to sham operated ones. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing an amelioration in spontaneous motor behavior and in cognitive performance in Parkinsonian animals after receiving human VM neural stem cell grafts. Histological studies confirmed that the grafts generated mature dopaminergic cells.
Sympathetic block after plexus anesthesia. Comparison with stellate ganglion block]	Plethysmographic measurements of the upper extremity were performed in ten patients after axillary plexus block and in eight patients after stellate ganglion block. Axillary plexus block was followed by a mean increase of 396% in arterial blood flow. After stellate ganglion block, the arterial blood flow increased by 232% (P less than or equal to 0.001) compared to the pre-block value. There was no change in venous capacity after either method. The results indicate that both blocks can alternatively be used, as they have the same effects regarding increased arterial flow and stable venous capacity.
Metaiodobenzylguanidine [131I] scintigraphy detects impaired myocardial sympathetic neuronal transport function of canine mechanical-overload heart failure.	In heart failure secondary to chronic mechanical overload, cardiac sympathetic neurons demonstrate depressed catecholamine synthetic and transport function. To assess the potential of sympathetic neuronal imaging for detection of depressed transport function, serial scintigrams were acquired after the intravenous administration of metaiodobenzylguanidine [131I] to 13 normal dogs, 3 autotransplanted (denervated) dogs, 5 dogs with left ventricular failure, and 5 dogs with compensated left ventricular hypertrophy due to a surgical arteriovenous shunt. Nine dogs were killed at 14 hours postinjection for determination of metaiodobenzylguanidine [131I] and endogenous norepinephrine content in left atrium, left ventricle, liver, and spleen. By 4 hours postinjection, autotransplanted dogs had a 39% reduction in mean left ventricular tracer accumulation, reflecting an absent intraneuronal tracer pool. Failure dogs demonstrated an accelerated early mean left ventricular tracer efflux rate (26.0%/hour versus 13.7%/hour in normals), reflecting a disproportionately increased extraneuronal tracer pool. They also showed reduced late left ventricular and left atrial concentrations of tracer, consistent with a reduced intraneuronal tracer pool. By contrast, compensated hypertrophy dogs demonstrated a normal early mean left ventricular tracer efflux rate (16.4%/hour) and essentially normal late left ventricular and left atrial concentrations of tracer. Metaiodobenzylguanidine [131I] scintigraphic findings reflect the integrity of the cardiac sympathetic neuronal transport system in canine mechanical-overload heart failure. Metaiodobenzylguanidine [123I] scintigraphy should be explored as a means of early detection of mechanical-overload heart failure in patients.
Quantitative structure-activity relationships. V. A simple simple algorithm for Fujita-Ban and Free-Wilson analyses.	For quantitative structure-activity analyses a simple algorithm for the calculation of de novo group contributions by Fujita-Ban analysis is given. This algorithm corresponds in all details to a computer program for linear multiple regression analysis. However, the transformation of the original matrix to the normal equations matrix is easily achieved without a computer. The normal equations matrix can be solved with a modern desk calculator being equipped with a matrix ROM. Two examples are given to explain the algorithm; the calculation of all important statistical parameters is illustrated. As for quantitative structure-activity analyses this algorithm can be applied as well for the calculation of other additive parameters, such as pi from log P-values or omega from equilibrium constants.
Central sympathoinhibitory action of a direct-acting vasodilator, budralazine, in anesthetized rats.	Previous data on budralazine, 1-[2-(1,3-dimethyl-2-butenylidene)-hydrazino]-phthalazine, has indicated that it is a direct-acting vasodilating agent that does not produce marked tachycardia. The present study was undertaken to elucidate what effects may be seen on the central sympathetic nerve activity when budralazine is given systemically to rats. Budralazine (0.5, 1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg, i.v.) produced a dose-dependent reduction of mean arterial pressure. At doses of 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg, budralazine induced bradycardia accompanied with a decrease in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity. Preganglionic adrenal sympathetic nerve activity was also reduced by budralazine (1.0 mg/kg, i.v.). A dose of 0.5 mg/kg of budralazine neither influenced carotid sinus nerve activity nor augmented aortic depressor nerve activity. On the contrary, a high dose of budralazine (5.0 mg/kg) produced simultaneous increases in the heart rate and cardiac sympathetic nerve activity along with a marked suppression of aortic depressor nerve activity. Plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations were also increased at a dose of 5.0 mg/kg. These findings suggest that budralazine doses of 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg may reduce the sympathetic outflow that is mediated via central sympathoinhibitory action. Baroreceptor-mediated tachycardia occurred after high dose budralazine (5.0 mg/kg) administration in anesthetized rats.
Inhibitory effect on gastric motility of chloroquine and mepacrine.	Measured on isolated rat-stomach fundus strips, the isolated cervical sympathetic trunk, and on the superior cervical ganglion, chloroquine and mepacrine have parasympatholytic, spasmolytic, ganglionic blocking and local anaesthetic effects. On rising the doses these manifest themselves in a given sequence. On the basis of this fact it is concluded that the inhibition of gastric motility by chloroquine and mepacrine in the rat, is based on the parasympatholytic property of the drugs in question.
Nature of the antiadrenergic properties of an indolizine.	Inhibition by 2-ethyl-3-(4-y-di-n-butylaminopropoxybenzoyl)-indolizine hydrochloride (L 9394) and by propranolol of the positive chronotropic effect of isoproterenol on spontaneously beating rabbit right atria has been studied in vitro. Propranolol behaved like a typical competitive beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with a pA2 value of 8.33. L 9394 acted as a non-competitive inhibitor with a pD'2 value of about 4.98. Inhibition by L 9394 and phentolamine of the norepinephrine-induced contractions of isolated rat aortic strips has been studied likewise. Phentolamine inhibited the adrenergic alpha-adrenoceptor competitively with a pA2 value of 8.69 while L 9394 behaved like a dual inhibitor, with a competitive component (pA2 value of 6.35) and a non-competitive component (pD'2 value of about 4.72).
The uptake and release of [3-H]-2-amino-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthlane (ADTN) by striatal nerve terminals.	A study has been made of the uptake and release of [G-3H]-2-amino 6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (ADTN) by crude striatal synaptosomes of the rat. 2 Uptake was rapid, temperature-dependent and could be suppressed by a variety of metabolic inhibitors. 3 The Michaelis-Menten kinetincs indicated the presence of two distinct transport systems in the striatum which were of much higher capacity than those found in the cerebellum, which lacks dopaminergic innervation. 4 Uptake of [3-H]ADTN was strongly inhibited by dopamine and the two potent dopamine-uptake inhibitors, benztropine and nomifensine, but only weakly by imipramine and amphetamine (the latter in non-reserpine-treated animals). 5 Accumulated [3-H]ADTN could be released from striatal slices by elevated K+. A similar release was evoked upon the addition of the ionophore, A23187. 6 The most potent releaser of [3-H]ADTN was (+)-amphetamine. This effect occurred at concentrations inactive against ADTN uptake. The neuroleptic cis-flupenthixol produced an inhibition of the spontaneous release. 7 It is concluded that [3-H]ADTN is accumulated preferentially into areas of the rat brain rich in dopamine. The pharmacological specificity of the uptake suggests that it is a good substrate for the dopamine carrier. Following uptake, [3-H]-ADTN may be released by K+ and a calcium ioniphore, which raises the possibility that ADTN might act as a false transmitter.
Cardiovascular effects of urapidil]	The cardiovascular effects of urapidil have been investigated in the anesthetized rat. The mechanism of the hypotensive action of this drug has been tested in vitro on the isolated rat aorta and in vivo by intracerebroventricular injections. The peripheral vasoconstrictor effect has been studied in the pithed rat. In the pithed rat, the thoracic part of the spinal cord was electrically stimulated in order to induce a tachycardia. The reduction of this tachycardia by a drug is due to its inhibitory effect on cardiac sympathetic nerves endings. Intravenous urapidil produces a significant hypotension without change in heart rate. Directly injected into the brain cavities, urapidil produces a hypotensive effect only at very high doses (1 mg/kg). This hypotensive action of urapidil appears therefore to be mainly of peripheral origin. Urapidil antagonizes competitively the contraction of the aorta induced by norepinephrine. The drug has alpha-blocking properties which explain its hypotensive action. On the other hand, urapidil provokes a weak vasoconstrictor effect in the pithed rat and induces a presynaptic inhibition in the heart which may explain the lack of heart rate change during the hypotensive effect of the drug. Urapidil may therefore also stimulate post or presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
The mechanisms by which hyperbaric oxygen and carbogen improve tumour oxygenation.	Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) has been proposed to reduce tumour hypoxia by increasing the amount of dissolved oxygen in the plasma. That this actually occurs has not been verified experimentally. This study was performed to explore changes in tumour oxygenation induced by treatment with normobaric and hyperbaric oxygen and carbogen. R3230Ac mammary adenocarcinomas were implanted into Fisher 344 rats. Arterial blood gases, blood pressure and heart rate were monitored. Tumour oxygenation was measured polarographically in five sets of animals. They received either normobaric 100% oxygen, hyperbaric (3 atmospheres; atm) 100% oxygen, normobaric carbogen or hyperbaric (3 atm) carbogen (HBC) +/- bretylium. HBO reduced the mean level of low pO2 values (< 5 mmHg) from 0.49 to 0.07 (P = 0.0003) and increased the average median pO2 from 8 mmHg to 55 mmHg (P = 0.001). HBC reduced the level of low pO2 values from 0.82 to 0.51 (P = 0.002) an increased median pO2 from 2 mmHg to 6 mmHg (P = 0.05). Normobaric oxygen and carbogen did not change tumour oxygenation significantly. Sympathetic blockade with bretylium before HBC exposure improved oxygenation significantly more than HBC alone (low pO2 0.55-0.17, median pO2 4-17 mmHg). HBO and hyperbaric carbogen improved tumour oxygenation in this model, while normobaric oxygen or carbogen had no effect. Sympathetic-mediated vasoconstriction during hyperbaric carbogen caused it to be less effective than HBO. This mechanism also appeared to operate during normobaric carbogen breathing.
Prospects of using non-narcotic analgesics in present-day methods of general anesthesia]	Efficacies of several relatively new methods of anesthesia are compared. The data of electroencephalographic monitoring, early components of somatosensory evoked potentials, parameters of the central and peripheral hemodynamics (pulsometry supplemented with estimation of photoplethysmography coefficient, among other things), acid-base balance, were used as criteria of the adequacy of analgesia. A total of 369 anesthesiologic modalities are analyzed, which were compared with traditional and modified neuroleptanalgesia (NLA) with inhalation of fluothane vapors. A high efficacy of NLA carried out in parallel with inhalation of gaseous anesthetics (fluothane) was confirmed. If traditional NLA is used in long traumatic operations, fentanyl in dose at least 10 mcg/(kg.h) should be infused during the main stage of the intervention to provide effective anesthesia; during cardiopulmonary bypass surgery fentanyl dose should be at least 15 mcg/(kg.h). Use of moradol as the principal analgesic in surgery on the open heart and aorta and in long traumatic interventions on the thoracic and abdominal organs was found unjustified. Combined total anesthesia with fentanyl, droperidol, seduxen, dalargin, and clofelin may be effectively used for intraoperative protection in interventions of any kind. Clinical significance of the phenomena detected is discussed.
Intraoperative monitoring of abdominal organs under combined general anesthesia]	The authors analyse the early components of somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) during anesthesia in prolonged and traumatic operations on the abdominal organs (gastrectomy, hemihepatectomy, pancreatoduodenal resection, etc.). A total of 69 patients were examined, among them 32 underwent operations under conditions of classical NLA, 16 with the narcotic analgetics replaced by moradol, and 21 under modified NLA with dalargin. The results of the study and analysis of literature data allow monitoring of the early components of somatosensory evoked potentials to be considered a highly sensitive test for appraising the depth and adequacy of the modern methods of general anesthesia and to be recommended for use, at least in particularly difficult and venturesome operations. It is shown that most significant in the discussed plan is not the absolute value, but changes of the N19-P23 amplitude in the stages of the operation. Increase of the studied SSEP component by 20% and more in relation to the basal level (SSEP amplitude in the patient after adequate preanesthesia) is evidence of insufficient analgesia. Change of N19-P23 latency is less demonstrative. Monitoring of the early components (N19-P23) of SSEP showed that to ensure effective analgesia in prolonged concurrent and combined operations, if the NLA method is chosen, administration of fentanyl in a dose of no less than 12 micrograms/kg/hour is necessary. It is shown that replacement of narcotic analgesics, within the limits of the conducted NLA, by moradol, an agent of the group of agonists-antagonists is poorly effective.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anesthesia and infusion-transfusion therapy in extensive combined surgeries]	The article discusses 434 one-stage concurrent and combined surgical interventions in the cavities. The type of anesthesia and the volume of infusion-transfusion therapy were determined for each type of combinations. A concurrent-combined method, i. e. combined endotracheal (NLA with Kalipsol) and epidural anaesthesia is advisable in supertraumatic interventions (evisceration of the organs of the true pelvis, hemicorporectomy). The method of dissociative total intravenous anesthesia must be used for patients with heart diseases, especially in patients with various disorders of the conduction system. The specific features of this method is exclusion of nitrous oxide and reduction of the doses of Phentanyl, (which produce a negative effect on the conduction system of the heart) and increase of the doses of Kalipsol and droperidol, which allows the operation to be conducted in full volume in these patients. Agents for NLA with Dalargin are preferable for general anesthesia in patients undergoing operations on the hepatopancreatoduodenal zone. In other concurrent and combined operations on patients without concomitant heart diseases, NLA and NLA in combination with Kalipsol may be used; the last-named is particularly valuable in massive blood loss, when the hemodynamics are insufficiently stable. Particular attention is given to extensive, traumatic interventions attended by massive blood loss. The performance of hypervolemic hemodilution to the main stage of the operation is suggested, which makes it possible to stabilize hemodynamics at the peak of the hemorrhage. With the chosen tactics of anesthesia and infusion-transfusion therapy the incidence of complications and the lethality rate in such extensive operations were significantly reduced.
Pancreatic spasmolytic polypeptide: first three-dimensional structure of a member of the mammalian trefoil family of peptides.	The trefoil peptides are a rapidly growing family of peptides, mainly found in the gastrointestinal tract. There is circumstantial evidence that they stabilize the mucus layer, and may affect the rate of healing of the mucosal epithelium.
Evaluation of cardiac sympathetic nervous function by 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy in insulin-treated non-insulin dependent diabetics with hypoglycemia unawareness.	The association between the lack of adrenergic symptoms during hypoglycemia and myocardial 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) accumulation was investigated in 12 insulin-treated non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients who had no evidence of heart disease. These patients were divided into 2 groups according to the presence (group A) or absence (group B) of adrenergic symptoms during hypoglycemia. Autonomic function tests revealed significantly severe autonomic dysfunction in group B compared to that in group A. Insulin infusion test indicated no significant difference in the catecholamine response between the two groups. 123I-MIBG scintigraphy showed that the heart/mediastinum ratio of MIBG uptake was significantly lower, and scintigraphic defect was greater in group B than in group A. There were no significant differences in the washout rate between the two groups. These results suggested that the lack of adrenergic symptoms during hypoglycemia may be associated with cardiac sympathetic nervous dysfunction in insulin-treated NIDDM patients, and this dysfunction is mainly due to cardiac sympathetic denervation.
Extradural analgesia with clonidine and fentanyl compared with 0.25% bupivacaine in the first stage of labour.	Conventional extradural analgesia during labour with 0.25-0.375% bupivacaine may induce motor weakness and subjective sensory deficit, reducing maternal satisfaction. Even in a regimen for ambulatory extradural analgesia (0.1% bupivacaine-fentanyl 2 micrograms ml-1), a potential for proprioreception impairment exists, which may impair safe ambulation. We have combined fentanyl with clonidine for extradural analgesia in labour, and compared its effects with 0.25% bupivacaine, in a randomized, double-blind study. We studied 28 women requesting extradural analgesia for labour; they were allocated randomly to either group 1, who received clonidine 120 micrograms with fentanyl 50 micrograms, or group 2, who received bupivacaine 25 mg. Detailed clinical neurological examination was undertaken 30 min later. Pain was assessed subjectively using a 10-cm visual analogue scale (VAS). There were no significant differences in VAS between the groups at any time. Median onset of analgesia was longer in group 1 (24.3 (interquartile range 20-35) compared with 17.5 (15-25) min) (P < 0.05) and 79% of group 1 vs 86% of group 2 patients reported a high degree of satisfaction with extradural analgesia. Patients in group 2 had a much higher incidence of motor weakness (P < 0.01), impaired perception of pinprick (P < 0.01) and impaired distal joint proprioception (P < 0.05) than group 1. We conclude that clonidine 120 micrograms-fentanyl 50 micrograms provided comparable extradural analgesic efficacy as 0.25% bupivacaine for the first stage of labour. Furthermore, unwanted neurological effects were significantly less.
Rat epididymal sperm quantity, quality, and transit time after guanethidine-induced sympathectomy.	Guanethidine, a chemical that selectively abolishes peripheral noradrenergic nerves, was used to investigate the role of sympathetic innervation in the maintenance of epididymal sperm quantity and quality. Four groups of 10 adult male rats each were treated daily for 21 days, by i.p. injections, with either 0 (saline vehicle), 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg/kg guanethidine. Norepinephrine content was reduced to undetectable levels in the cauda epididymidis in all guanethidine groups after 3 wk of treatment and was reduced to 7.4% of the control values after 1 wk of 6.25 mg/kg treatment. While body weight gain was significantly decreased at 12.5 and 25 mg/kg compared to that in controls, there was a significant increase in the weights of the seminal vesicles/coagulating glands in all treated groups. The number of homogenization-resistant spermatids per testis and the daily sperm production per testis remained unchanged. The weight of the epididymis was significantly increased at 6.25 and 12.5 mg/kg. Moreover, the number of cauda epididymal sperm and the transit time were increased significantly at 6.25 mg/kg (10.2 days) compared to values in the control cauda (6.3 days). Neither serum testosterone levels nor LH was affected in a dosage-related manner. There were no effects of guanethidine treatment on cauda epididymal sperm motility or morphology. A quantitative analysis of detergent-extracted cauda epididymal sperm proteins by SDS-PAGE revealed no differences, but there were diminutions in seven proteins in homogenates of caput/corpus tissue. Histologic analysis of testis and epididymis sections revealed no differences between control and denervated animals. In a subsequent experiment the lowest effective dosage (6.25 mg/kg) was given to rats for 1 wk, and an increased number of cauda epididymal sperm and a delay in sperm transit were observed. Our results indicate that low-dosage guanethidine exposure denervates the epididymis within 1 wk, thereby delaying epididymal transit; however, neither 1- nor 3-wk exposure produces qualitative changes in the sperm.
Fertility of rat epididymal sperm after chemically and surgically induced sympathectomy.	Guanethidine, a chemical that selectively blocks sympathetic noradrenergic neurons, was used to investigate the role of sympathetic innervation in the fertility of rat epididymal sperm, using both natural mating and in utero insemination protocols. This animal model correlates, at least in part, with spinal cord injury (SCI) in men. Adult male rats were treated daily by i.p. injections, for 21 or 42 days, with 0 or 6.25 mg/kg guanethidine. To compare the effects of guanethidine-induced sympathectomy with those following surgically induced sympathectomy, the inferior mesenteric ganglion and the proximal hypogastric nerves were removed in another group of rats. Both chemically and surgically induced sympathectomy increased the weight of the epididymis and seminal vesicles/coagulating glands as well as the number and the transit time of cauda epididymal sperm. Neither serum testosterone levels nor LH was affected by treatment with guanethidine. Using natural mating, no litters were produced by guanethidine-treated rats. Chemically denervated rats failed to produce copulatory plugs or ejaculate into the uterus. However, distal cauda epididymal sperm from chemically or surgically denervated rats displayed normal fertilization ability (80%) using in utero inseminations. In addition, the sperm of denervated rats did not show abnormal sperm chromatin structure using an assay that detects DNA damage. We conclude that sympathectomy delays the transit of sperm through the cauda epididymidis and produces ejaculatory dysfunction but does not compromise sperm quality in the distal cauda epididymidis. Moreover, these data provide compelling evidence that there is no association between the prolonged transit time of sperm within the epididymis, i.e., pre-ejaculatory sperm aging, and the fertility of those sperm, which has important implications for artificial insemination using sperm from men with SCI.
Long-term protection of the rat nigrostriatal dopaminergic system by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor against 6-hydroxydopamine in vivo.	Glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to enhance the survival of dopaminergic neurones both in vitro and in vivo, and to protect the rodent dopaminergic system from neurotoxic damage. However, most previous studies have only examined the short-term protective effects of GDNF. We have investigated the long-term effects of GDNF on a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesion of the rat medial forebrain bundle (MFB), which results in complete and irreversible destruction of the nigrostriatal pathway, and is a robust model of Parkinson's disease. GDNF was administered ipsilaterally above the substantia nigra and into the lateral ventricle immediately before a unilateral 6-OHDA injection into the MFB. The effects of GDNF were examined in vivo by behavioural testing and positron emission tomography (PET) at weekly intervals, for 12 weeks. GDNF prevented the development of amphetamine-induced rotations at all time-points. PET studies, using [11C]-RTI-121 as a tracer for the dopamine transporter, indicated that GDNF prevented 6-OHDA-induced reduction of dopamine reuptake sites in the ipsilateral striatum. Post-mortem neurochemical analysis at 13 weeks after surgery found that GDNF significantly inhibited 6-OHDA-induced loss of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the ipsilateral striatum. Immunocytochemistry showed that GDNF reduced 6-OHDA-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurones in both the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area. We have shown that a single treatment with GDNF can confer long-term protective effects against a 6-OHDA lesion, which suggests that this factor may be useful for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Extrinsic denervation increases myenteric nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons and inhibitory neuromuscular transmission in guinea pig.	Enteric nerves can function normally without connections with the central nervous system. A contributing component of the functional autonomy exhibited by enteric nerves is their plasticity. In the present study, the number of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive (NOS-ir) myenteric neurons and inhibitory neuromuscular transmission were studied in extrinsically denervated ileal segments. Segments of ileum were extrinsically denervated by crushing the mesenteric blood vessels supplying a loop of ileum in anesthetized guinea pigs. Some unoperated animals were treated with capsaicin or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to disrupt primary afferent and sympathetic nerves, respectively. NOS-ir was localized using indirect immunofluorescence. Nerve-mediated relaxations of longitudinal muscle were studied in vitro using standard methods. At 7 weeks after extrinsic denervation there was a 93% increase in the number of NOS-ir myenteric neurons. The number of neurons containing detectable vasoactive intestinal peptide-ir neurons was not changed after extrinsic denervation. Neurogenic relaxations caused by 10, 20 and 50 Hz transmural stimulation were larger in extrinsically-denervated tissues compared to control tissues. The NOS antagonist, nitro-L-arginine (300 microM) inhibited neurogenic relaxations in control and extrinsically-denervated tissues. Capsaicin- but not 6-OHDA-treatment mimicked the effects of extrinsic denervation on NOS-ir and neurogenic relaxations of the longitudinal muscle. Active or passive properties of the longitudinal muscle were unaffected by extrinsic denervation. These data indicate that extrinsic denervation is associated with an increase in the number of myenteric neurons expressing detectable NOS-ir and potentiation of inhibitory transmission to longitudinal muscle. This effect is due to loss of extrinsic sensory nerves.
CCK-8 inhibits ingestive behavior in rats with lateral hypothalamic 6-OHDA lesions.	Male rats were injected with 6-hydroxydopamine in the lateral hypothalamus and tested for ingestive behavior starting on the day after the injection. The rats did not eat food pellets but readily ingested an intraorally infused nutritive solution. If given three daily intraoral infusions, 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats defended their body weight and were as sensitive to the inhibitory effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide on intake as controls. Dopamine was reduced by 94% in the dorsal striatum five days after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection. Noradrenaline and serotonin were less markedly affected. Thus, while appetitive ingestive behavior is disrupted, consummatory ingestive behavior and body weight regulatory competence are only marginally affected by massive damage to forebrain dopamine neural networks.
Sympathectomy-induced immune changes are not abrogated by the glucocorticoid receptor blocker RU-486.	Removal of sympathetic noradrenergic input to the immune system by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) triggers increases in antigen-specific in vitro splenocyte proliferation and cytokine production in BALB/cJ and C57B1/6J mice. This examines the possible role of glucocorticoids in these previously reported changes. In both strains, chemical sympathectomy triggers an elevation of glucocorticoid levels immediately following injection of 6-OHDA, returning to normal within one to two days. In the BALB/cJ strain, glucocorticoid elevation is seen only after the initial 6-OHDA injection; levels in chronically denervated animals are not different from controls. In the C57B1/6J strain, the increase is seen even with chronically denervated animals. Prior implantation of mice with pellets containing the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU-486 does not abrogate denervation-induced increases in cytokine production or proliferation in either strain. In addition to the previously reported increased interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-4 production, there is an increase in IFN-gamma production in the C57B1/6J strain following either acute or chronic denervation. The persistence of denervation-induced changes even when the effect of corticosterone is blocked with RU-486 or diminished with chronic denervation indicates that the changes are driven mainly by a glucocorticoid-independent mechanism.
Central nervous system activation following peripheral chemical sympathectomy: implications for neural-immune interactions.	Many studies have demonstrated that ablation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) alters subsequent immune responses. Researchers have presumed that the altered immune responses are predominantly the result of the peripheral phenomenon of denervation. We, however, hypothesized that chemical sympathectomy will signal and activate the central nervous system (CNS). Activation of the CNS was determined by immunocytochemical visualization of Fos protein in brains from male C57BL/6 mice at 8, 24, and 48 h following denervation. A dramatic induction of Fos protein was found in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and other specific brain regions at 8 and 24 h compared to vehicle control mice. Dual-antigen labeling demonstrates that corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF)-containing neurons in the PVN are activated by chemical sympathectomy; however, neurons containing neurotransmitters which may modulate CRF neurons, such as vasopressin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and adrenocorticotropin, do not coexpress Fos. Our findings suggest an involvement of the CNS in sympathectomy-induced alterations of immunity.
Muscarinic agonists exhibit functional dopamine antagonism in unilaterally 6-OHDA lesioned rats.	(5R,6R) 6-(3-propylthio-1,2,5-thiadiazol-4-yl)-1-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oc tane (PTAC) is a selective muscarinic ligand with high affinity for central muscarinic receptors, agonist mode of action at the muscarinic M2 and M4 receptor subtypes and substantially less or no affinity for central dopamine receptors. In the present study PTAC, as well as the muscarinic agonists oxotremorine, RS86 and pilocarpine, inhibited dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonist induced contralateral rotation in unilaterally 6-OHDA lesioned rats. The dose of SKF 38393 used to induce contralateral rotation also caused an intense Fos protein immunoreactivity in the rat dorsolateral striatum on the lesioned site which was inhibited by PTAC indicating that the inhibition of rotation by PTAC was not due to non-specific peripheral side effects.
6-OHDA denervation substantially decreases DCC mRNA levels in rat substantia nigra compacta.	The function of deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) protein, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules, in the adult CNS is unknown. Recently the transcript encoding DCC has been shown to be expressed in a variety of rat brain regions, including the substantia nigra pars compacta and the striatum, which encompasses the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. In the present study DCC mRNA expression in substantia nigra, striatum, dentate gyrus and piriform cortex was investigated in adult rats using in situ hybridization histochemistry following unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the median forebrain bundle. DCC mRNA levels were greatly reduced in the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA lesion compared to those on the contralateral side while there was no apparent effect on DCC mRNA levels in the other regions analysed. These data indicate expression of DCC mRNA in dopamine neurones of the substantia nigra pars compacta and support a role for DCC in the adult CNS, with potential involvement in the function of central dopamine neurones.
Differential alterations in basal and D-amphetamine-induced behavioural pattern following 6-OHDA or ibotenic acid lesions into the dorsal striatum.	It is well known that the corpus striatum is related to the sterotyped activation induced by several psychostimulants. In this study we analyzed the effects of 6-OHDA, in comparison with those of ibotenic acid lesions, into the dorsal striatum, on the behavioural pattern induced by saline or D-amphetamine treatment. A computerized technique for recording the animal motor activity was developed in order to define in a detailed way the behavioural profile in lesioned and sham-operated rats induced by the saline or D-amphetamine treatment. A 6-OHDA lesion into the dorsal striatum modified the basal behavioural pattern which was mainly characterized by reduced motor activation while ibotenic acid lesion affected the structure of the basal behavioral pattern. D-Amphetamine administration in 6-OHDA lesioned rats induced a behavioural stimulation, but a decreased motor and stereotyped activation was observed compared to the sham-operated animals treated with D-amphetamine. In contrast, D-amphetamine administration in the ibotenic acid-lesioned rats induced a motor and stereotyped activity which was not reduced compared to that seen after D-amphetamine treatment in sham-operated rats. These results suggest that these two types of lesion induced differential effects on the behavioural pattern either after saline or after D-amphetamine administration. Dopaminergic neurotransmission in the dorsal striatum plays a permissive role on the emergence of the behavioural responses, while the dorsal striatum circuitry plays a crucial role on the organization of the behavioural pattern. In addition, dopaminergic activity in this structure serves a primary control in the D-amphetamine-elicited motor activation or stereotypy, while the striatal structure is involved in the shaping of the D-amphetamine behavioural pattern.
