Associations between psychological factors and nighttime/daytime symptomatology in insomnia.	The aim of this study was to examine psychological factors in insomnia and the association between psychological mechanisms and nighttime and daytime symptoms.
In vivo evaluation of acid-induced changes in oesophageal mucosa integrity and sensitivity in non-erosive reflux disease.	Patients with non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) have impaired oesophageal mucosal integrity (dilated intercellular spaces). Oesophageal mucosal integrity reflects the balance between repeated reflux damage and mucosal recovery. The relationship between mucosal integrity and acid sensitivity is unclear. Oesophageal impedance may be used for in vivo mucosal integrity measurement. We studied acid-induced changes in oesophageal mucosal integrity and acid perception in patients with heartburn.
Proxy-reported questionnaires for young children with asthma: a structured review.	Which proxy-reported outcome measures have been developed for use with children aged 6 years and younger to assess asthma symptoms, asthma control, and asthma-specific health-related quality of life, and do these questionnaires' measurement properties support their use as end-points in clinical trials? A two-phase literature search was conducted: 1) studies describing relevant questionnaires were identified, and the questionnaires were assessed against predefined criteria; 2) studies providing information on the measurement properties of questionnaires meeting the predefined inclusion criteria were identified. Literature sources included PubMed and EMBASE databases, scientific conference proceedings, a clinical trial registry, and a quality of life instrument database. The initial search of literature databases and conference abstracts identified 631 records. 20 paediatric asthma proxy-reported outcome instruments were identified; seven met the inclusion criteria: Childhood Asthma Control Test, Control de Asma en Niños Questionnaire, Pediatric Asthma Caregiver Diary, Pediatric Asthma Control Tool, PedsQL 3.0 Short-Form 22 Asthma Module, PedsQL Asthma Symptoms Scale, and Test for Respiratory and Asthma Control in Kids. Three proxy-reported outcome instruments were considered suitable for use as end-points in paediatric asthma clinical trials; the Pediatric Asthma Caregiver Diary possesses the strongest measurement properties of the three. 
Assessment of joint laxity in children and adolescents: a review of methods.	Joint laxity is diagnosed when the mobility of small and large joints is increased in relation to standard mobility for any given age, gender and race, and after excluding systemic diseases. Many of authors noted the co-occurrence of joint laxity with the following symptoms: back and joints pain, as well as disturbance of body posture. Clinicians apply various methods to assess joint laxity. Beighton scale is the most frequent method used in clinical screening. It consists of assessing: extension of the fifth MPC joint to 90°, thumb abduction to front forearm, hyperextension of elbow and knee joint above 10°, as well as capability to stand bend and place one`s palms flat on the ground. Carter and Wilkinson method is similar to this scale. The difference concerns the assessment of passive hyperextension of all four II-V fingers, instead of the assessment of the fifth finger only. The second difference involves assessing the range of ankle dorsiflexion, instead of assessing the ability to touch the ground with one`s palms. Marshall test is another method for assessing joint laxity. This test is based on the thumb motion range measured in the forearm direction. Hakim and Grahame suggests that the diagnosis of joint laxity may be done with a 5-point questionnaire. It would allow a fast overview as its questions refer to symptoms observed both at present and in the past. Taken into account the common occurrence of joint laxity as well as common use the flexibility exercises in the physiotherapeutic process, the joint laxity should be systematically assessed by both physicians and physiotherapists.
Mood instability and functional recovery in bipolar disorders.	The aim of this study was to identify psychopathological factors associated with long-term functional outcome in euthymic bipolar disorder patients and to test new measures of mood instability and symptoms intensity.
Limited utility of number needed to treat and the polarity index for bipolar disorder to characterize treatment response.	The medical community increasingly supports the use of simplifying constructs or ratios to facilitate incorporation of evidence-based medicine into clinical practice such as number needed to treat (NNT) and polarity index (PI). Clinicians and teachers find them to be an appealing, easy-to remember integer that can be readily translated into clinical practice. However, serious questions have been raised with respect to the validity, reliability and value of these descriptors of response. This commentary identifies some of the specific limitations of the NNT and PI constructs when applied to treatments of bipolar disorder. 
Comparison of questionnaires used for the evaluation of patients with chronic pelvic pain.	Comparison of questionnaires for the evaluation of symptoms and QoL in patients with CPPS.
Comparison of the 1987 ACR and 2010 ACR/EULAR classification criteria for rheumatoid arthritis in clinical practice: a prospective cohort study.	To compare application of the 1987 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and 2010 ACR/European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) classification criteria for diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in clinical practice.
Equivalence and measurement properties of an electronic version of the Psoriasis Symptom Inventory.	To evaluate the equivalence of electronic and paper versions of the Psoriasis Symptom Inventory and to examine measurement properties of the electronic version.
Congestive heart failure and decongestion ability of two different treatments: continuous renal replacement and diuretic therapy: experience of a cardiac step down unit.	The rehospitalization rate for decompensated heart failure (HF) is high and can be ascribed also to a suboptimal decongestion before discharge. Congestion can be treated with diuretics or continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Aim of this study was to evaluate if diuretics and CRRT, used in agreement to international guidelines, may have a dissimilar decongestion ability in patients with decompensated HF with different baseline characteristics.
Predictors of high symptom burden in gynecologic oncology outpatients: who should be referred to outpatient palliative care?	To characterize symptom prevalence in gynecologic oncology outpatients and identify predictors of high symptom burden.
Clinical evaluation of the anterior translation of glenohumeral joint using ultrasonography: an intra- and inter-rater reliability study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the intra- and inter-rater reliability of ultrasonography (US) to measure anterior translation of the humeral head (ATHH) among healthy subjects and patients with sacroiliac joint dysfunction.
