Immunological profile of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients and their cell-mediated immune responses to viral and CNS antigens.	The 'immunological profile' of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients was established from standard tests for B- and T-cell function. This showed no significant difference from age and sex-matched other neurological (CNS) disease controls and normal subjects. Immune complex (IC) levels in ALS serum differed significantly from normal controls but not from CNS controls. There was no relation between the various indices of immune activity of IC levels and the clinical disability of the ALS patient or progression of the disease. Distribution of complement-fixing antibodies to poliovirus was similar to sera of ALS and control groups. The in vitro cell-mediated immune responses to poliovirus, however, were significantly greater in ALS patients than in CNS controls and were inversely related to the ALS disability score. Poliovirus has not been demonstrated in the CNS or extra-CNS tissues of ALS patients by conventional means but, if latent or defective poliovirus or related virus were present, this could account for sensitization and a possible autoimmune mechanism. ALS patients exhibited in vitro cellular immunity to ALS and normal CNS subfractions. These responses were not related to the ALS disability score or progression of the disease and probably represent epiphenomena.
Monoclonal antibodies against noxiustoxin.	Noxiustoxin, a 39-amino acid residue peptide isolated from the venom of the Mexican scorpion Centruroides noxius, has previously been shown to affect voltage-dependent K+ channels. Here we describe the isolation and characterization of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against this toxin and their use in structure-function relationship studies. Six hybridoma clones (BNTX4, -12, -14, -16, -18, and -21) producing MAbs against noxiustoxin were isolated. The epitopes defined by the MAbs are overlapping or in close proximity because no MAb pair could bind simultaneously to the toxin. All the MAbs inhibited to various degrees the binding of the toxin to its receptor sites on rat brain synaptosomal membranes. The venom from other Centruroides species was shown to contain components cross-reacting with the MAbs, suggesting the existence of other NTX-like toxins.
