Reversibility of alcohol-related brain damage: clinical and experimental observations.	Chronic alcoholics who maintain abstinence often demonstrate remarkable improvement of neurological and mental dysfunction. This paper presents an overview of the clinical and laboratory work of our group. Reversible clinical manifestations include psychometric scores, ataxia, tremor, Parkinsonism, dyskinesia, cerebral atrophy, EEG parameters, and a CSF acidosis. Electrophysiological investigations showed that in the in vitro hippocampus of rats fed ethanol for several months there was evidence for diminished long-term potentiation, impaired neuronal inhibitory mechanisms (diminished inhibitory post-synaptic potentials and post-spike after hyperpolarisations), decreased neuronal specific membrane capacitance and increased specific membrane resistance. Golgi stains showed attenuation of hippocampal CA1 neuronal dendrites in rats fed ethanol for five months, which reverted to control size in rats permitted two months of alcohol withdrawal.
Spasticity.	Spasticity has been defined as velocity-dependent hyperactivity of stretch reflexes; it is therefore only one aspect of the complex syndrome produced by a lesion of the upper motoneuron. Although spasticity may be partially responsible for joint contractures, it does not produce most of the functional disability experienced by patients with upper motoneuron lesions. Paresis, fatigability, lack of dexterity, etc., account for most of these patients' complaints. The pathophysiology of spasticity is poorly understood but appears to be related to an increased excitatory state at the segmental spinal level; there is no evidence for increased sensitivity of muscle spindles in spastic patients. Several mechanisms for this increased excitability within the spinal cord have been proposed. There are different types as well as degrees of spasticity. Clinical neurophysiologic recordings of reflex activity in patients with spasticity provide the means to differentiate among the various types of spasticity, to select the therapy most likely to be effective in a particular patient, and to see the results of its employment objectively. The latter will prove whether a specific therapy is useful or not. Ablative treatment at the level of the peripheral nerve or dorsal root may be useful, particularly when spasticity is severe. Drugs such as baclofen or diazepam relieve flexor spasms but are not particularly effective against spasticity itself. Dantrolene acts to weaken muscles, but that is not often helpful. Rarely do any of these therapies increase function; there are no effective cures for paresis or related negative manifestations of chronic spasticity.
