Modulation of neurotransmitter release by the second messenger-activated protein kinases: implications for presynaptic plasticity.	Activity-dependent modulation of synaptic function and structure is emerging as one of the key mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity. Whereas over the past decade considerable progress has been made in identifying postsynaptic mechanisms for synaptic plasticity, the presynaptic mechanisms involved have remained largely elusive. Recent evidence implicates that second messenger regulation of the protein interactions in synaptic vesicle release machinery is one mechanism by which cellular events modulate synaptic transmission. Thus, identifying protein kinases and their targets in nerve terminals, particularly those functionally regulated by synaptic activity or intracellular [Ca2+], is critical to the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying modulation of neurotransmitter release and presynaptic plasticity. The phosphorylation and dephosphorylation states of synaptic proteins that mediate vesicle exocytosis could regulate the biochemical pathways leading from synaptic vesicle docking to fusion. However, functional evaluation of the activity-dependent phosphorylation events for modulating presynaptic functions still represents a considerable challenge. Here, we present a brief overview of the data on the newly identified candidate targets of the second messenger-activated protein kinases in the presynaptic release machinery and discuss the potential impact of these phosphorylation events in synaptic strength and presynaptic plasticity.
Fluorescence approaches to the study of the actin-nucleating and bundling activities of synapsin I.	Synapsin I is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein which binds to small synaptic vesicles and actin in a phosphorylation-dependent fashion. We have analyzed the ability of synapsin I to interact with actin monomers and filaments using purified proteins derivatized with fluorescent probes. Synapsin I accelerates the initial rate of actin polymerization and increases the final steady-state levels of polymerized actin. The fraction of total actin polymerized by synapsin I strongly depends on the synapsin I-actin ratio. We have visualized the actin-bundling activity of synapsin I using a non-perturbing method, video-enhanced microscopy of fluoresceinated synapsin I and actin filaments. Our findings suggest that synapsin I exerts a control on the physical characteristics of the cytoskeletal network of the nerve terminal and are consistent with the proposed role of synapsin I in mediating the interaction of synaptic vesicles with actin.
