Effects of perioperative synbiotic treatment on infectious complications, intestinal integrity, and fecal flora and organic acids in hepatic surgery with or without cirrhosis.	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of preoperative and postoperative synbiotic treatment in hepatectomy patients with or without liver cirrhosis.
Synbiotic preparation in men suffering from functional constipation: a randomised controlled trial.	Evaluating the effects of a commercially available synbiotic preparation (contains both prebiotic and probiotic elements) on functional constipation in males.
Effects of synbiotic fermentation products on primary chemoprevention in human colon cells.	The consumption of synbiotics, a mixture of probiotics and indigestible food constituents such as dietary fiber, has been reported to reduce colon cancer risk. We investigated the effects of fermented wheat aleurone enriched with the probiotics Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG/Bifidobacterium animalis supsp. lactis on the gene expression and functional end points related to cellular defence in HT29 and primary human colon cells. Aleurone was digested and fermented in vitro with/without probiotics. The resulting fermentation supernatants (fs) were analyzed for concentrations of deoxycholic acid and ammonia. The cells were treated with the fs, and effects on gene expression of catalase, GSTP1 and SULT2B1, enzyme activity of catalase and glutathione S-transferase as well as H₂O₂-induced DNA damage were examined. Fermentation of aleurone reduced deoxycholic acid concentration by 84%, while the probiotics enhanced this effect. Ammonia was increased by fs aleurone, whereas a reduction occurred by the addition of L. rhamnosus GG/B. animalis supsp. lactis 12. GSTP1 expression tended to result in an increase by the fs aleurone in both cell types, whereas the probiotics could not additionally increase the effect. Catalase was not modulated by fs aleurone enriched with probiotics. Only in HT29 cells, expression of SULT2B1 was enhanced by fs aleurone. Enzyme activity of catalase and glutathione S-transferase was induced (2-3.6 fold, 72 h) in HT29 cells only. Addition of probiotics had no influence on this effect. In HT29 cells, a reduced H₂O₂-induced DNA damage by the fs aleurone after 48 h, enhanced by the addition of probiotics, was detected. The observed effects could improve detoxification of xenobiotics and therefore may lower colon cancer risk.
Synbiotic effects of lactitol and Lactobacillus acidophilus NCFM™ in a semi-continuous colon fermentation model.	The effects of Lactobacillus acidophilus NCFM™, lactitol, and the combination of lactitol and L. acidophilus NCFM™ were studied with a semi-continuous colon fermentation simulation; consisting of compartments mimicking, ascending, transverse, descending and sigmoid colon and their conditions with faecal inoculation. L. acidophilus NCFM™ was detected throughout the colon simulator. Lactitol was utilised early on by the microbes in the proximal part of the simulator. Lactitol increased the total numbers of microbes and bifidobacteria, and decreased clostridia cluster IV, while L. acidophilus NCFM™ alone decreased the numbers of clostridia cluster XIV. Combination treatment increased the numbers of bifidobacteria. Furthermore, concentrations of acetic acid, butyric acid and the sum of total short-chain fatty acids were increased by both lactitol-including treatments. The treatment with L. acidophilus NCFM™ alone increased the concentration of propionic acid and butyric acid. L. acidophilus NCFM™ tended to increase the total concentrations of biogenic amines, while lactitol suppressed production of biogenic amines also in the presence of L. acidophilus NCFM™. True synergistic effects are suggested in stimulation of the production of butyrate, an important microbial metabolite for colon health. In conclusion, lactitol as well as the combination of lactitol and L. acidophilus NCFM™ were found to exhibit complementary beneficial effects on the colon microbial composition and activity.
Functional oligosaccharides: application and manufacture.	Oligosaccharides are attracting increasing interest as prebiotic functional food ingredients. They can be extracted or obtained by enzymatic hydrolysis from a variety of biomass sources or synthesized from simple oligosaccharides by enzymatic transfer reactions. The major prebiotic oligosaccharides on the market are inulin, fructo-oligosaccharides, and galacto-oligosaccharides. They have been evaluated using a range of in vitro and in vivo methods, although there is a need for more large-scale human trials using modern microbiological methods. Prebiotics are being studied for their effects on gut health and well being and specific clinical conditions, including colon cancer, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), acute infections, and mineral absorption. Developing understanding of the functional ecology of the human gut is influencing current thinking on what a prebiotic might achieve and is providing new targets for prebiotic intervention.
Yacon flour and Bifidobacterium longum modulate bone health in rats.	Yacon flour has been considered a food with prebiotic potential because of the high levels of fructooligosaccharides, which allows for its use in formulating synbiotic foods. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of yacon flour and probiotic (Bifidobacterium longum) on the modulation of variables related to bone health. Thirty-two Wistar rats were divided into 4 groups: control, yacon flour, diet+B. longum, and yacon flour+B. longum. After euthanasia, the bones were removed for analysis of biomechanical properties (thickness, length, and strength of fracture) and mineral content (Ca, Mg, and P); the cecum was removed for analysis of the microbiota and short-chain fatty acids. Tibia Ca, P, and Mg content was significantly (P<.05) higher in groups fed diet+B. longum, yacon flour+B. longum than in the control group. An increase in fracture strength was observed in the yacon flour (8.1%), diet+B. longum (8.6%), and yacon flour+B. longum (14.6%) in comparison to the control group. Total anaerobe and weight of the cecum were higher (P<.05) in rats consuming the yacon flour diet compared with the other groups. Cecal concentration of propionate was higher in all experimental groups compared with the control (P<.05). Yacon flour in combination with B. longum helped increase the concentration of minerals in bones, an important factor in the prevention of diseases such as osteoporosis.
Galacto-oligosaccharides have prebiotic activity in a dynamic in vitro colon model using a (13)C-labeling technique.	Galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) are considered to be prebiotic, although the contribution of specific members of the microbiota to GOS fermentation and the exact microbial metabolites that are produced upon GOS fermentation are largely unknown. We aimed to determine this using uniformly (13)C-labeled GOS. The normal (control) medium and unlabeled or (13)C-labeled GOS was added to a dynamic, validated, in vitro model of the large-intestine containing an adult-type microbiota. Liquid-chromatography MS was used to measure the incorporation of (13)C label into metabolites. 16S-rRNA stable isotope probing coupled to a phylogenetic micro-array was used to determine label incorporation in microbial biomass. The primary members within the complex microbiota that were directly involved in GOS fermentation were shown to be Bifidobacterium longum, B. bifidum, B. catenulatum, Lactobacillus gasseri, and L. salivarius, in line with the prebiotic effect of GOS, although some other species incorporated (13)C label also. GOS fermentation led to an increase in acetate (+49%) and lactate (+23%) compared with the control. Total organic acid production was 8.50 and 7.52 mmol/g of carbohydrate fed for the GOS and control experiments, respectively. At the same time, the cumulative production of putrefactive metabolites (branched-chain fatty acids and ammonia) was reduced by 55%. Cross-feeding of metabolites from primary GOS fermenters to other members of the microbiota was observed. Our findings support a prebiotic role for GOS and its potential to act as a synbiotic in combination with certain probiotic strains.
Effects of synbiotic supplementation on lactating mothers' energy intake and BMI, and infants' growth.	In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 80 lactating mothers were randomly divided into two groups to receive daily supplement of synbiotic (n = 40) or a placebo (n = 40) for 30 days. Information on dietary intake was collected and anthropometric measurements were taken using standard calibrated instruments. Data analysis was carried out using nutritionist IV, SPSS and Epi Info software. Synbiotic supplementation resulted in a slight increase in mean energy intake while, in the placebo group, maternal energy intake decreased significantly (p < 0.023). Although maternal weight and BMI increased slightly in the supplemented group, these two parameters decreased significantly in the placebo group (p < 0.01). Also, infants' weight gain in the synbiotic group was significantly higher than the placebo group after the intervention (p < 0.044). Synbiotics may prevent weight loss in lactating mothers and result in weight gain in infants. Further experiments are required to study these effects in undernourished lactating mothers and their infants.
Effect of prebiotic carbohydrates on growth, bile survival and cholesterol uptake abilities of dairy-related bacteria.	Three strains of lactic acid bacteria and one probiotic Bifidobacterium strain sourced from milk origin were considered to select for the best synbiotic-like combination for cholesterol uptake ability. For that purpose, fermentative characteristics, bile salt hydrolase activity, bile survival and cholesterol removal were assessed in the presence of different carbohydrates.
Effect of buckwheat flour and oat bran on growth and cell viability of the probiotic strains Lactobacillus rhamnosus IMC 501®, Lactobacillus paracasei IMC 502® and their combination SYNBIO®, in synbiotic fermented milk.	Fermented foods have a great significance since they provide and preserve large quantities of nutritious foods in a wide diversity of flavors, aromas and texture, which enrich the human diet. Originally fermented milks were developed as a means of preserving nutrients and are the most representatives of the category. The first aim of this study was to screen the effect of buckwheat flour and oat bran as prebiotics on the production of probiotic fiber-enriched fermented milks, by investigating the kinetics of acidification of buckwheat flour- and oat bran-supplemented milk fermented by Lactobacillus rhamnosus IMC 501®, Lactobacillus paracasei IMC 502® and their 1:1 combination named SYNBIO®. The probiotic strains viability, pH and sensory characteristics of the fermented fiber-enriched milk products, stored at 4 °C for 28 days were also monitored. The results showed that supplementation of whole milk with the tested probiotic strains and the two vegetable substrates results in a significant faster lowering of the pH. Also, the stability of L. rhamnosus IMC 501®, L. paracasei IMC 502® and SYNBIO® during storage at 4 °C for 28 days in buckwheat flour- and oat bran-supplemented samples was remarkably enhanced. The second aim of the study was to develop a new synbiotic product using the best combination of probiotics and prebiotics by promoting better growth and survival and be acceptable to the consumers with high concentration of probiotic strain. This new product was used to conduct a human feeding trial to validate the fermented milk as a carrier for transporting bacterial cells into the human gastrointestinal tract. The probiotic strains were recovered from fecal samples in 40 out of 40 volunteers fed for 4 weeks one portion per day of synbiotic fermented milk carrying about 10(9) viable cells.
Microencapsulation of a synbiotic into PLGA/alginate multiparticulate gels.	Probiotic bacteria have gained popularity as a defence against disorders of the bowel. However, the acid sensitivity of these cells results in a loss of viability during gastric passage and, consequently, a loss of efficacy. Probiotic treatment can be supplemented using 'prebiotics', which are carbohydrates fermented specifically by probiotic cells in the body. This combination of probiotic and prebiotic is termed a 'synbiotic'. Within this article a multiparticulate dosage form has been developed, consisting of poly(d,l-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microcapsules containing prebiotic Bimuno™ incorporated into an alginate-chitosan matrix containing probiotic Bifidobacterium breve. The aim of this multiparticulate was that, in vivo, the probiotic would be protected against gastric acid and the release of the prebiotic would occur in the distal colon. After microscopic investigation, this synbiotic multiparticulate was shown to control the release of the prebiotic during in vitro gastrointestinal transit, with the release of galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) initially occurred over 6h, but with a triphasic release pattern giving further release over 288 h. Encapsulation of B. breve in multiparticulates resulted in a survival of 8.0 ± 0.3 logCFU/mL cells in acid, an improvement over alginate-chitosan microencapsulation of 1.4 logCFU/mL. This was attributed to increased hydrophobicity by the incorporation of PLGA particles.
