Increased hydration alone does not improve orthostatic tolerance in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope.	In patients with neurocardiogenic syncope, the beneficial effects of increased daily fluid intake, without an accompanying high dose of salt, are unknown. Our aim was to (1) determine whether plasma volume was low in patients with recurrent neurocardiogenic syncope, and (2) determine how recommendation about increased daily fluid intake, without an accompanying high dose of sodium, effects plasma volume and if this potential therapy improves orthostatic tolerance. Eighty-six patients with neurocardiogenic syncope were recruited in a prospective randomized open study. After an initial head-up tilt test, patients were randomly assigned to either the hydration supplementation group (1500 ml of water + 1500 mg of NaCl/day) or the no treatment (control) group. After ten days a second head-up tilt test was performed. Plasma volume, osmolality, and total body water were measured at baseline, and heart rate, arterial blood pressure, and cardiac transthoracic impedance were monitored during tilting. Hydration treatment did not affect the number of positive tilt tests (52% initial day, 54% after treatment, NS). In both groups, the overall number of positive tilt tests decreased between the initial and final head-up tilt test. There was no association between low plasma volume and positive tilt test. Patients with the lowest plasma volume were equally distributed in both positive and negative tilt response groups. An increased daily intake of fluid, without an accompanying high dose of salt, had no measurable beneficial effect on tolerance to head-up tilting in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope. Moreover in this patient group there was no association between a low plasma volume and a reduced tolerance to orthostatic stress.
Basic autonomic nervous function in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope.	Basic autonomic nervous function was evaluated in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope (NCS). Atropine, isoproterenol, propranolol, phenylephrine, and phentolamine were administered successively, and parasympathetic nerve activity and beta- (and alpha-) activity, sensitivity, and secretion of the sympathetic nerve were determined in patients with NCS and control subjects. In patients with NCS, beta- and alpha- sensitivity were higher and beta-activity and beta- and alpha-secretion lower than in control subjects. In patients with NCS, the increased basic beta-sensitivity may contribute to induce strong cardiac contractions and augment ventricular mechanoreceptor response, and a compensatory state against diminished neuronal sympathetic activity is suggested by the increased alpha-sensitivity.
Differences in autonomic balance in patients with cardioinhibitory and vasodepressor type of reflex syncope during head-up tilt test and active standing.	To improve the pathophysiological understanding of cardioinhibitory and vasodepressor reflex syncope, by evaluating orthostatic effects on electrical and hemodynamic variables. To unravel the pathogeneses further, we studied these effects during both the passive head-up tilt test and the active standing test.
