Beta-adrenergic activities of octopamine and synephrine stereoisomers on guinea-pig atria and trachea.	The activities of the (-)- and (+)-forms of m- and p-octopamine and m- and p-synephrine on beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptors in guinea-pig atria and trachea have been compared with that of noradrenaline. The rank order of potency of the (-)-forms on beta 1-adrenoceptors was noradrenaline greater than m-synephrine greater than m-octopamine = p-octopamine greater than p-synephrine. m-Synephrine was 100-fold, m- and p-octopamine about 6000-fold, and p-synephrine about 40,000-fold less active than noradrenaline. The (+)-forms were 1-2 orders of magnitude less active than their (-)-counterparts. The four (-)-compounds were more than four orders of magnitude less active than noradrenaline on beta 2-adrenoceptors, and the (+)-forms had no detectable activity in concentrations as high as 10(-4) M. If m- and p-octopamine are co-released with noradrenaline in amounts proportional to their concentration, their activities at these structures are too low to be physiologically significant.
A role for alternative pathway catecholamines in the regulation of steroidogenesis in cow luteal cells.	Incubation of bovine luteal cells with the alternative pathway catecholamines octopamine, synephrine and deoxyadrenaline at concentrations of 10(-6) to 10(-3) M enhanced the production of progesterone (P less than 0.05). Tryamine did not alter basal progesterone production (P greater than 0.05). Addition of noradrenaline and adrenaline at concentrations of 10(-4) to 10(-7) M significantly elevated the production of progesterone (P less than 0.05). The steroidogenic response to noradrenaline and adrenaline was greater than that for octopamine, synephrine and deoxyadrenaline (P less than 0.05). Response to both primary (10(-6) M) and alternative (10(-4) M) pathway catecholamines was inhibited by propranolol (10(-5) M, P less than 0.05) but not phentolamine (10(-5) M, P greater than 0.05). These results demonstrate that octopamine, synephrine and deoxyadrenaline can affect steroidogenesis by bovine luteal cells, and their action is mediated by beta-adrenergic receptors.
Mechanism of potentiation of contractor responses to catecholamines by methylxanthines in aortic strips.	1. Caffeine and theophylline increased the amplitude of contractor esponses of untreated and reserpine pretreated rabbit aortic strips to catecholamines (adrenaline, alpha-methylnoradrenaline, noradrenaline). Responses to amines without both the 3- and 4-OH groups in the benzene ring (methoxamine, phenylephrine, Synephrine) were not increased by theophylline and only those to Synephrine were slightly enhanced by caffeine.2. Compounds which inhibit catechol-O-methyltransferase (pyrogallol, tropolone, U-0521) potentiated responses to catecholamines and abolished the enhancing effect of theophylline and caffeine. Also, the potentiation produced by inhibitors of O-methylation was significantly reduced in the presence of the methylxanthines.3. Experiments done with the aid of the technique of oil immersion, to eliminate the diffusion of drug from the tissue into the bathing medium, showed that theophylline and caffeine decreased the rate of inactivation of adrenaline by O-methylation.4. These findings indicate that methylxanthines potentiate the contractor responses to catecholamines in aortic strips by inhibiting their extraneuronal inactivation.
