Light-induced conformational changes of cyanobacterial phytochrome Cph1 probed by limited proteolysis and autophosphorylation.	Photoreceptor chromoproteins undergo light-induced conformational changes that result in a modulation of protein interaction and enzymatic activity. Bacterial phytochromes such as Cph1 from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803 are light-regulated histidine kinases in which the light signal is transferred from the N-terminal chromophore module to the C-terminal kinase module. In this study, purified recombinant Cph1 was subjected to limited proteolysis using trypsin and endoproteinase Glu-C (V8). Cleavage sites of chromopeptide fragments were determined by MALDI-TOF and micro-HPLC on-line with tandem mass spectrometry in an ion trap mass spectrometer. Trypsin produced three major chromopeptides, termed F1 (S56 to R520), F2 (T64 to R472), and F3 (L81 to R472). F1 was produced only in the far-red absorbing form Pfr within 15 min and remained stable up to >1 h; F2 and F3 were obtained in the red-light absorbing form Pr within ca. 5-10 min. When F1 was photoconverted to Pr in the presence of trypsin, this fragment degraded to F2 and F3 within 1-2 min. On size exclusion chromatography, F1 eluted as a dimer in the Pfr and as a monomer in the Pr form, whereas F2 and F3 behaved always as monomers, irrespective of the light conditions. These and other results are discussed in the context of light-dependent subunit interactions, in which amino acids 473-520 within the PHY domain are required for chromophore-module subunit interaction within the homodimer. V8 proteolysis yielded five major chromopeptides, F4 (T17 to N449), F5 (T17 to E335), F6 (T17 to E323), F7 (unknown sequence), and F8 (tentatively L121 to E323). F6 and F8 were formed in the Pr form, whereas F4, F5, and F7 were preferentially formed in the Pfr form. Three amino acids next to specific cleavage sites, R520, R472, and E323, were altered by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutants were analyzed by UV-vis spectroscopy, size exclusion chromatography, and autophosphorylation. Histidine kinase activity was low in R472A, R520P, and R520A; in all mutants, the ratio of phosphorylation intensity between Pr and Pfr was reduced. Thus, light regulation of autophosphorylation is negatively affected in all mutants. In R472P, E323P, and E323D, the phosphorylation intensity of the Pfr form exceeded that of the wild-type control. This result shows that the histidine kinase activity of Cph1 is actively inhibited by photoconversion into Pfr.
Structural and biochemical characterization of Gun4 suggests a mechanism for its role in chlorophyll biosynthesis.	Gun4 has been implicated in a developmental signaling pathway between the chloroplast and the nucleus involving magnesium protoporphyrin IX (MgP(IX)), the first dedicated intermediate in the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway. Here we present the crystal structure of Thermosynechococcus elongatus Gun4 at 1.5 A, describe the binding affinities of Gun4 for substrate and product porphyrin molecules, and identify a likely (Mg)P(IX) binding site on the protein. Kinetic analyses show that Gun4 dramatically increases the efficiency of transformation of porphyrin substrate to metalloporphyrin product and that it also reduces the threshold Mg2+ concentration required for activity at low porphyrin concentration. Gun4 therefore controls magnesium chelatase at physiologically significant Mg2+ concentrations and likely acts as a molecular switch in vivo so that in its absence magnesium chelatase is inactive. This mechanism could allow Gun4 to mediate magnesium protoporphyrin levels both for chlorophyll biosynthesis and for signaling to the nucleus.
No evidence from FTIR difference spectroscopy that aspartate-342 of the D1 polypeptide ligates a Mn ion that undergoes oxidation during the S0 to S1, S1 to S2, or S2 to S3 transitions in photosystem II.	In the recent X-ray crystallographic structural models of photosystem II, Asp342 of the D1 polypeptide is assigned as a ligand of the oxygen-evolving Mn4 cluster. To determine if D1-Asp342 ligates a Mn ion that undergoes oxidation during one or more of the S0 --> S1, S1 --> S2, and S2 --> S3 transitions, the FTIR difference spectra of the individual S state transitions in D1-D342N mutant PSII particles from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 were compared with those in wild-type PSII particles. Remarkably, the data show that the mid-frequency (1800-1200 cm-1) FTIR difference spectra of wild-type and D1-D342N PSII particles are essentially identical. Importantly, the mutation alters none of the carboxylate vibrational modes that are present in the wild-type spectra. The absence of significant mutation-induced spectral alterations in D1-D342N PSII particles shows that the oxidation of the Mn4 cluster does not alter the frequencies of the carboxylate stretching modes of D1-Asp342 during the S0 --> S1, S1 --> S2, or S2 --> S3 transitions. One explanation of these data is that D1-Asp342 ligates a Mn ion that does not increase its charge or oxidation state during any of these S state transitions. However, because the same conclusion was reached previously for D1-Asp170, and because the recent X-ray crystallographic structural models assign D1-Asp170 and D1-Asp342 as ligating different Mn ions, this explanation requires that (1) the extra positive charge that develops on the Mn4 cluster during the S1 --> S2 transition be localized on the Mn ion that is ligated by the alpha-COO- group of D1-Ala344 and (2) any increase in positive charge that develops on the Mn4 cluster during the S0 --> S1 and S2 --> S3 transitions be localized on the one Mn ion that is not ligated by D1-Asp170, D1-Asp342, or D1-Ala344. In separate experiments that were conducted with l-[1-13C]alanine, we found no evidence that D1-Asp342 ligates the same Mn ion that is ligated by the alpha-COO- group of D1-Ala344.
PIC1, an ancient permease in Arabidopsis chloroplasts, mediates iron transport.	In chloroplasts, the transition metals iron and copper play an essential role in photosynthetic electron transport and act as cofactors for superoxide dismutases. Iron is essential for chlorophyll biosynthesis, and ferritin clusters in plastids store iron during germination, development, and iron stress. Thus, plastidic homeostasis of transition metals, in particular of iron, is crucial for chloroplast as well as plant development. However, very little is known about iron uptake by chloroplasts. Arabidopsis thaliana PERMEASE IN CHLOROPLASTS1 (PIC1), identified in a screen for metal transporters in plastids, contains four predicted alpha-helices, is targeted to the inner envelope, and displays homology with cyanobacterial permease-like proteins. Knockout mutants of PIC1 grew only heterotrophically and were characterized by a chlorotic and dwarfish phenotype reminiscent of iron-deficient plants. Ultrastructural analysis of plastids revealed severely impaired chloroplast development and a striking increase in ferritin clusters. Besides upregulation of ferritin, pic1 mutants showed differential regulation of genes and proteins related to iron stress or transport, photosynthesis, and Fe-S cluster biogenesis. Furthermore, PIC1 and its cyanobacterial homolog mediated iron accumulation in an iron uptake-defective yeast mutant. These observations suggest that PIC1 functions in iron transport across the inner envelope of chloroplasts and hence in cellular metal homeostasis.
