Matrix metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases in joint fluid of the patients with loose artificial hip joints.	The pseudojoint cavity formed in patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) is later remodeled to synovial membrane-like tissue, which produces pseudosynovial fluid. This pseudosynovium also is an important source of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). As it is widely speculated that synovial fluid MMPs may contribute to local tissue degradation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA), we hypothesize that locally produced MMPs are found in the pseudosynovial fluid, via which they have access to the implant-host interface, and that if they retain their proteolytic potential, they might contribute to aseptic loosening. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunoblotting, and zymography were used to analyze MMPs and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) in synovial fluid in aseptic loosening, which was compared to RA and OA. Pseudosynovial THA fluid was characterized using low levels of MMP-1 but moderate levels of MMP-13 and MT1-MMP (MMP-14). Due to the lack of an appropriate assay, MMP-13 and MT1-MMP were not similarly assessed, but the immunoblotting indicated that they were in the 56 kD intermediate proteolytically processed forms. The MMP-9 level was intermediate between RA and OA. MMP-2 was on a significant level, but there were no differences among study groups. The THA group also was characterized using relatively high levels of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2. Accordingly, MMP-9 and MMP-2 were found to occur in the 92 kD and 72 kD proenzyme form, respectively, with full activity retained in all study groups. The data suggest that proMMP-2-TIMP-2 and proMMP-9-TIMP-1 complexes are formed in the pseudosynovial fluid due to the excess of TIMPs over MMPs in aseptic loosening of THA. TIMP-complexed MMPs are resistant to MMP-mediated proteolytic activation, which may explain their latency and proenzyme zymogen form. Thus, formation of stabilizing proMMP-TIMP complexes enable transportation of proMMPs far from their original site of production. Due to motion-associated cyclic changes of the intra-articular pressure, fluid-phase MMPs stabilized by TIMPs might be absorbed to implant surfaces and interface tissues and help to dissect the implant/cement-to-bone interface in situ. Consequently, they may contribute to local proteolytic/tissue destructive events and aseptic loosening.
Changes in the acid-base status of the synovial fluid in rheumatoid arthritis patients]	The study of changes in joint fluid (JF) acid-base balance in RA patients to evaluate severity of joint lesions, efficacy of on-going therapy and to predict appearance and persistence of RA remission.
Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP): the role of a non-collagen cartilage matrix protein as a marker of disease activity and joint destruction in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis]	Today, we can assess criteria to predict the tissue destruction and progression of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Osteoarthritis (OA) only in a late stage of the disease. It would be an advantage to have biochemical markers of disease activity and joint destruction to optimize therapy.
The comparative arthropathy of fluoroquinolones in dogs.	1. Fluoroquinolone antibiotics are generally only prescribed to paediatric patients on compassionate grounds. This is because they are known to cause lesions in the cartilage of the major diarthroidal joints in immature experimental animals. As dogs are considered to be the most sensitive species, a series of studies was performed to compare the potential for grepafloxacin (a new fluoroquinolone) to cause arthropathy to that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin in juvenile (3 month old) beagles. 2. Grepafloxacin was administered once daily to male juvenile dogs at dosages of up to 100 mg/kg/day (intravenously), 60 mg/kg/day (orally) or 30 mg/kg/day (subcutaneously) for 1 week. Blister formation was observed on the surface of the joints in one of the three animals treated with grepafloxacin intravenously at 100 mg/kg/day. No abnormalities were observed at lower dosages or when grepafloxacin was administered orally or subcutaneously, regardless of dose. In animals treated with ofloxacin or ciprofloxacin at dosages of 10-30 mg/kg/day, blister formation or erosion was observed on the surface of joints regardless of dose or route of administration. 3. Histopathological examination of the joint surfaces of affected animals revealed the loss of cartilaginous matrix and chondrocytes, cavitation within the intermediate zone of cartilage accompanied by cartilage fibrillation or chondrocyte clustering, or loss of the surface layer which covers the cavitation (or loss of outer wall of the cavity). These findings were not present in the absence of grossly observed lesions. 4. Absorption following oral administration of grepafloxacin was low. Examination of plasma concentrations of drug following intravenous administration showed that joint toxicity was seen with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at maximum concentrations as low as 3.80 and 4.24 mg/l, respectively, while plasma levels of grepafloxacin of up to 11.95 mg/l failed to cause such lesions. When the concentration of grepafloxacin was 18.69 mg/l a single joint lesion was seen. Following subcutaneous administration of grepafloxacin, systemic exposure (area under the curve) of approximately 1.5 times that seen in man was not associated with joint lesions. However, lesions were noted for ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin treated animals at exposures equal to or below those seen in man. Therefore grepafloxacin appeared to have a relatively low potential for joint toxicity; this was not due to lack of penetration into the synovial fluid.
Endocrine end-points in rheumatoid arthritis.	Our previous studies are reviewed and at the same time preliminary experimental observation to the topic of endocrine end-points in autoimmune disease is introduced. To this end, we have used rheumatoid arthritis (RA), including synovial fluids and primary cultures of synovial macrophages, as a model system in order to investigate (a) expression and subcellular localization of high-affinity sites of steroid binding in immune effector cells; (b) steroid metabolic profiles in both male and female RA patients, as compared to healthy subjects; and (c) activities of key steroid enzymes that govern intratissue accumulation of sex hormones. In RA tissues and cells, the concurrent evidence for (1) androgen and/or estrogen receptors, (2) high concentrations of biologically active steroids, (3) key enzymes of steroid metabolism, and (4) significant changes of estrogen to androgen ratio, all strongly suggests that individual immune cells, including synovial macrophages, may behave as steroid-sensitive cells, namely, they may represent a target for sex steroids, supporting the hypothesis of a potential endocrine regulation of the immune response also in RA disease. In this respect, definition of several endocrine end-points may have important implications for the treatment of rheumatic disease and other immunological disorders.
Rules of chemokine receptor association with T cell polarization in vivo.	Current concepts of chemokine receptor (CKR) association with Th1 and Th2 cell polarization and effector function have largely ignored the diverse nature of effector and memory T cells in vivo. Here, we systematically investigated the association of 11 CKRs, singly or in combination, with CD4 T cell polarization. We show that Th1, Th2, Th0, and nonpolarized T cells in blood and tissue can express any of the CKRs studied but that each CKR defines a characteristic pool of polarized and nonpolarized CD4 T cells. Certain combinations of CKRs define populations that are markedly enriched in major subsets of Th1 versus Th2 cells. For example, although Th0, Th1, and Th2 cells are each found among blood CD4 T cells coordinately expressing CXCR3 and CCR4, Th1 but not Th2 cells can be CXCR3(+)CCR4(-), and Th2 but only rare Th1 cells are CCR4(+)CXCR3(-). Contrary to recent reports, although CCR7(-) cells contain a higher frequency of polarized CD4 T cells, most Th1 and Th2 effector cells are CCR7(+) and thus may be capable of lymphoid organ homing. Interestingly, Th1-associated CKRs show little or no preference for Th1 cells except when they are coexpressed with CXCR3. We conclude that the combinatorial expression of CKRs, which allow tissue- and subset-dependent targeting of effector cells during chemotactic navigation, defines physiologically significant subsets of polarized and nonpolarized T cells.
Synovial fluid cytokines and eicosanoids as markers of joint disease in horses.	To evaluate the value of various synovial fluid cytokines and eicosanoids to diagnose joint disease or categories of joint disease.
Relationships of matrix metalloproteinases and their inhibitors to cartilage proteoglycan and collagen turnover and inflammation as revealed by analyses of synovial fluids from patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	To determine interrelationships in matrix turnover in articular cartilage and joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Age-related decrease in susceptibility of human articular cartilage to matrix metalloproteinase-mediated degradation: the role of advanced glycation end products.	Progressive destruction of articular cartilage is a hallmark of osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Age-related changes in cartilage may influence tissue destruction and thus progression of the disease. Therefore, the effect of age-related accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) on cartilage susceptibility to proteolytic degradation by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) present in synovial fluid (SF) of OA and RA patients was studied.
Regulation of hyaluronan secretion into rabbit synovial joints in vivo by protein kinase C.	Hyaluronan (HA) is important for joint cavitation, lubrication, volume regulation and synovial fluid drainage but little is known about the regulation of joint HA synthesis/secretion in vivo. We investigated whether HA secretion into joints in vivo can be regulated by protein kinase C (PKC). Secretion into the knee joint cavity of anaesthetised rabbits was measured over 6 h by washout and chromatography. Joints received intra-articular injections of Ringer vehicle (control) or an activator of classical PKC isoforms, phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), at 20-2000 ng ml(-1). The effects of PKC inhibition by bisindolylmaleimide (BIM) and protein synthesis inhibition by cycloheximide (CX) on basal and stimulated HA secretion were also studied. The endogenous HA mass, 181+/-8 microg (n=26, mean +/- S.E.M.), and basal secretion rate, 4.4+/-0.4 microg h(-1), indicated a turnover time of 41 h. Secretion rate showed a dose-dependent response to PMA (n=30), rising 5-fold to 21.7+/-5.0 microg h(-1) (n=5) at 2000 ng ml(-1) PMA (P<0.0001, one-way ANOVA). PMA-induced stimulation was partially suppressed by CX (HA secretion: 5.8+/-1.7 microg h(-1), n=8, P<0.01) and totally blocked by BIM (HA secretion: 3.2+/-0.6 microg h(-1), n=9, P<0.001). Basal HA secretion was unaffected by CX over 6 h (4.2+/-0.7 microg h(-1), n=8) but was reduced by 29 % by BIM (3.1+/-0.6 microg h(-1), n=10, P=0.03). It is concluded that: (1) PKC can stimulate HA secretion into joints in vivo through mechanisms involving protein synthesis de novo as well as phosphorylation; (2) basal HA secretion is only partially PKC dependent; and (3) hyaluronan synthase turnover time is >6 h in vivo, which is slower than in vitro (<2-3 h).
Increased perivascular synovial membrane expression of myeloid-related proteins in psoriatic arthritis.	To analyze S-100 protein expression, in the form of myeloid-related protein 8 (MRP8), MRP14, and the heterodimer MRP8/MRP14, in psoriatic arthritis (PsA) patients compared with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and spondylarthropathy (SpA) patients, and to determine the effect of methotrexate (MTX) on the MRP antigen expression in PsA patients.
Growth plate damage, a feature of juvenile idiopathic arthritis, can be induced by adenoviral gene transfer of oncostatin M: a comparative study in gene-deficient mice.	To investigate the involvement of proinflammatory and destructive mediators in oncostatin M (OSM)-induced joint pathology, using gene-deficient mice.
Histamine releasing peptide (HRP) has proinflammatory effects and is present at sites of inflammation.	Albumin, the most abundant plasma protein, readily enters sites of inflammation during the period of increased vascular permeability. There it encounters proteases released from mast cells and invading leukocytes which earlier work has shown can act on albumin to liberate the peptide, histamine releasing peptide (HRP), first identified and named by its ability to stimulate histamine release from isolated mast cells. In this report we show that HRP releases histamine from cutaneous mast cells in vivo resulting in increased vascular permeability and persistent edema while in vitro, HRP promotes chemotaxis of leukocytes and enhances macrophage phagocytosis. Moreover, we show that the level of HRP is increased with the induction of an acute cutaneous inflammatory response in rats, that HRP is present at sites of acute and chronic inflammation in humans and that HRP is rapidly degraded by proteases thereby limiting its action to the area of its generation. We suggest that HRP is a pro-inflammatory peptide that helps amplify and perpetuate the inflammatory response. Inhibitors of inflammatory proteases or antagonists that block the action of peptides like HRP may, therefore, be useful in breaking the cycle of inflammation.
Cleavage of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (thrombospondin-5) by matrix metalloproteinases and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs.	Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) is a pentameric glycoprotein present in cartilage, tendon and ligament. Fragments of the molecule are present in the diseased cartilage, synovial fluid and serum of patients with knee injuries, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Although COMP is a substrate for several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), the enzymes responsible for COMP degradation in vivo have yet to be identified. In this study we utilised well-established bovine cartilage culture models to examine IL-1alpha-stimulated COMP proteolysis in the presence and absence of MMP inhibitors. COMP was released from bovine nasal cartilage, in response to IL-1alpha, at an intermediate time between proteoglycans and type II collagen, when soluble MMP levels in the culture medium were undetectable. The major fragment of COMP released following IL-1alpha-stimulation migrated with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 110 kDa (Fragment-110) and co-migrated with both the major fragment present in human arthritic synovial fluid samples and the product of COMP cleavage by purified MMP-9. However, the broad-spectrum MMP and ADAM inhibitor BB94 only partially inhibited the formation of Fragment-110 and failed to inhibit COMP release significantly. Therefore the results of these studies indicate a role for proteinases other than MMPs in the degradation of COMP in bovine cartilage. It was further demonstrated that purified COMP was cleaved by ADAMTS-4, but not ADAMTS-1 or -5, to yield a fragment which co-migrated with Fragment-110. Therefore this is the first demonstration of COMP as a substrate for ADAMTS-4, although it remains to be determined whether this enzyme plays a role in COMP degradation in vivo.
Radiation synovectomy with holmium-166 ferric hydroxide macroaggregate in equine metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints.	To evaluate the effects of radiation synovectomy (RSYN) with holmium-166 ferric hydroxide macroaggregate (Ho-166 FHMA) on synovium and synovial fluid in normal metacarpo- and metatarsophalangeal joints of horses and to determine intraarticular distribution of radioactivity after Ho-166 FHMA treatment.
Synovial fluid analysis of two groups of proteoglycan epitopes distinguishes early and late cartilage lesions.	To investigate whether fragmentation of proteoglycans in arthritis results in domains that have different levels of release from cartilage at different stages of the disease.
Intra-articular injection pentosanpolysulphate results in increased hyaluronan molecular weight in joint fluid.	The influence of an oversulphated glycosaminoglycan, pentosanpolysulphate, on hyaluronan metabolism of the synovial lining cell was studied in vivo in human volunteers. Significant increases in the mean degree of polymerisation of the hyaluronan chains were observed after a series of four to six intra-articular injections of this glycosaminoglycan. No increases in hyaluronan synthesis rates were observed. Repeated administration of the drug did not cause any inflammation or bleeding in the joint cavity.
Elevation of activated protein C in synovial joints in rheumatoid arthritis and its correlation with matrix metalloproteinase 2.	To investigate the involvement of the anticoagulant serine protease activated protein C (APC) in tissue remodeling in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Yersinia enterocolitica activates a T helper type 1-like T cell subset in reactive arthritis.	The profile of lymphokines secreted by 14 T cell clones and 24 T cell lines reactive with Yersinia Ag isolated from the synovial fluid cells of two HLA-B27+ patients with Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis was characterized. In response to Ag-specific or -nonspecific stimulation, all of the Yersinia-reactive T cell clones and lines had a pattern of lymphokine secretion resembling that of murine (Th1) cells. A total of 50% of T cell lines and clones randomly isolated from a reactive arthritis patient, without prior in vitro stimulation with Yersinia Ag, also exhibited a Th1-like profile of cytokine secretion upon nonspecific activation. This indicates that the selective expansion of this subset of T cells had already occurred in vivo. The possibility that the predominance of Th1-like T cells was an artefact generated by the T cell cloning procedure was excluded; 50% of the randomly isolated T cell clones and lines produced IL-4, IL-5, or both cytokines upon nonspecific activation. These results indicate that Yersinia Ag selectively activate a Th1-like subset of T cells in patients with Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis. Accumulation of such cells in the synovial tissue of patients with reactive arthritis may play a key role in the pathogenesis of this disease.
DNA microarray allows molecular profiling of rheumatoid arthritis and identification of pathophysiological targets.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the possibility to obtain a molecular signature of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) comparatively osteoarthritis (OA), and to lay the bases to develop new diagnostic tools and identify new targets. Microarray technology was used for such an analysis. The gene expression profiles of synovial tissues from patients with confirmed RA, and patients with OA were established and compared. A set of 63 genes was selected, based, more specifically, on their overexpression or underexpression in RA samples compared to OA. Results for six of these genes have been verified by quantitative PCR using both samples identical to those used in the microarray experiments and entirely separate samples. Expression profile of the 48 known genes allowed the correct classification of additional RA and OA patients. Furthermore, the distinct expression of three of the selected genes was also studied by quantitative RT-PCR in cultured synovial cells. Detailed analysis of the expression profile of the selected genes provided evidence for dysregulated biological pathways, pointed out to chromosomal location and revealed novel genes potentially involved in RA. It is proposed that such an approach allows valuable diagnosis/prognostics tools in RA to be established and potential targets for combating the disease to be identified.
Cartilage glycosaminoglycan loss in the acute phase after an anterior cruciate ligament injury: delayed gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of cartilage and synovial fluid analysis.	To examine the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content in cartilage and that in synovial fluid and determine whether they are associated, in patients with an acute anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury.
Synovial fluid levels and serum pharmacokinetics in a large animal model following treatment with oral glucosamine at clinically relevant doses.	To examine the concentration of glucosamine in the synovial fluid and its pharmacokinetics in serum in a large animal model following dosing with glucosamine HCl at clinically relevant levels.
The role of T-cell interleukin-17 in conducting destructive arthritis: lessons from animal models.	Interleukin-17 (IL-17) is a T cell cytokine spontaneously produced by cultures of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial membranes. High levels have been detected in the synovial fluid of patients with RA. The trigger for IL-17 is not fully identified; however, IL-23 promotes the production of IL-17 and a strong correlation between IL-15 and IL-17 levels in synovial fluid has been observed. IL-17 is a potent inducer of various cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-1, and receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL). Additive or even synergistic effects with IL-1 and TNF-alpha in inducing cytokine expression and joint damage have been shown in vitro and in vivo. This review describes the role of IL-17 in the pathogenesis of destructive arthritis with a major focus on studies in vivo in arthritis models. From these studies in vivo it can be concluded that IL-17 becomes significant when T cells are a major element of the arthritis process. Moreover, IL-17 has the capacity to induce joint destruction in an IL-1-independent manner and can bypass TNF-dependent arthritis. Anti-IL-17 cytokine therapy is of interest as an additional new anti-rheumatic strategy for RA, in particular in situations in which elevated IL-17 might attenuate the response to anti-TNF/anti-IL-1 therapy.
Increased production of endothelin-1 in patients with inflammatory arthritides.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictive peptide, but its precise mechanism of action in vivo has remained unknown.
The structure of aggrecan fragments in human synovial fluid. Evidence for the involvement in osteoarthritis of a novel proteinase which cleaves the Glu 373-Ala 374 bond of the interglobular domain.	Synovial fluid was collected from patients with recent knee injury and from patients with early or late stage osteoarthritis. Chondroitin sulfate-substituted aggrecan fragments present in these fluids, and in normal bovine synovial fluid, were purified by cesium chloride gradient centrifugation, enzymically deglycosylated and fractionated by gel filtration on Superose-12. Each sample contained two major aggrecan core protein populations with apparent molecular masses of approximately 90 kD and 150 kD. For all samples, NH2-terminal analysis of both populations gave a single major sequence beginning ARGSV. This NH2 terminus results from cleavage of the human aggrecan core protein at the Glu 373-Ala 374 bond within the interglobular domain between the G1 and G2 domains. Cleavage at this site also occurs during control and interleukin-1 stimulated aggrecan catabolism in bovine cartilage explant cultures (Sandy, J., P. Neame, R. Boynton, and C. Flannery. 1991. J. Biol. Chem. 266:8683-8685). These results indicate that the major aggrecan fragments present in both osteoarthritic human synovial fluid and in normal bovine synovial fluid are large, being composed of a short NH2-terminal stretch of the interglobular domain, the G2 domain, the keratan sulfate domain, and variable lengths of the chondroitin sulfate domain(s). We conclude that the release of aggrecan fragments from articular cartilage into the synovial fluid seen at all stages of human osteoarthritis (Lohmander, L. S. 1991. Acta Orthop. Scand. 62:623-632) is promoted by the action of a normal cartilage proteinase which cleaves the Glu 373-Ala 374 bond of the interglobular domain.
Pharmacokinetics and synovial fluid concentrations of flurbiprofen enantiomers in horses: chiral inversion.	Flurbirpofen (FBP), a member of the 2-aryl propionate nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug class, has potent anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. The commercial preparation is a racemic mixture of the R(-) and S(+) enantiomers of FBP. In this study, R(-) and S(+) FBP were used to investigate the metabolic chiral inversion. Each enantiomer was administered separately (0.25 mg/kg) and in a racemic mixture (0.5 mg/kg) intravenously to horses. Plasma and synovial concentration of each enantiomer was determined and the disposition of each was analyzed. After intravenous administration of R(-) FBP and S(+) FBP to horses no chiral inversion was detected. After the administration of the FBP racemate and individual enantiomers no differences were observed between pharmacokinetic parameters [t(1/2beta) (h), Cl (L/h.kg), AUC (microg.h/mL), Vss (L/kg) and MRT (h)] for R(-) and S(+) FBF. Synovial fluid concentrations of both FBP enantiomers were lower than plasma concentrations and no stereoselective differences were detected. These data indicate that the disposition of FBF in horses is not enantioselective and demonstrate a difference in the pharmacokinetic behavior of the enantiomers as compared with other 2-aryl-propionic acids, such as carprofen, ketoprofen and vedaprofen in the horse.
Measurements of C-reactive protein in serum and lactate dehydrogenase in serum and synovial fluid of patients with osteoarthritis.	Diagnosis of osteoarthritis (OA) is based upon the clinical orthopaedic examination and the radiographic assessment, both of which can be non-specific and insensitive in early joint disease. The aim of our study was to investigate if there is an increase in serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) in degenerative joint disease (DJD) and if CRP could be used to help diagnose OA. We also wished to investigate whether it was possible to distinguish a joint with clinically and radiographically confirmed OA from a healthy joint by comparing lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels within the synovial fluid and the serum. We have shown a difference in synovial LDH levels between diseased and healthy joints (P<0.0001). There was also a significant difference between LDH in arthritic synovial fluid and serum, with no correlation between the values. Despite the fact that the values of our clinical patients tended to be higher than the values of our control group (P=0.05) all measured values were within the normal limits of previous publications. From these data, we conclude that single measurements of serum CRP do not permit detection of OA in clinical patients and that serum LDH is not a reliable marker for osteoarthritis. LDH levels in the synovial fluid could be of diagnostic value for identifying osteoarthritis.
Inhibition of antithrombin by hyaluronic acid may be involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis.	Thrombin is a key factor in the stimulation of fibrin deposition, angiogenesis, proinflammatory processes, and proliferation of fibroblast-like cells. Abnormalities in these processes are primary features of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in synovial tissues. Tissue destruction in joints causes the accumulation of large quantities of free hyaluronic acid (HA) in RA synovial fluid. The present study was conducted to investigate the effects of HA and several other glycosaminoglycans on antithrombin, a plasma inhibitor of thrombin. Various glycosaminoglycans, including HA, chondroitin sulfate, keratan sulfate, heparin, and heparan, were incubated with human antithrombin III in vitro. The residual activity of antithrombin was determined using a thrombin-specific chromogenic assay. HA concentrations ranging from 250 to 1000 mug/ml significantly blocked the ability of antithrombin to inhibit thrombin in the presence of Ca2+ or Fe3+, and chondroitin A, B and C also reduced this ability under the same conditions but to a lesser extent. Our study suggests that the high concentration of free HA in RA synovium may block antithrombin locally, thereby deregulating thrombin activity to drive the pathogenic process of RA under physiological conditions. The study also helps to explain why RA occurs and develops in joint tissue, because the inflamed RA synovium is uniquely rich in free HA along with extracellular matrix degeneration. Our findings are consistent with those of others regarding increased coagulation activity in RA synovium.
Balance between survivin, a key member of the apoptosis inhibitor family, and its specific antibodies determines erosivity in rheumatoid arthritis.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a highly heterogeneous disease with respect to its joint destructivity. The reasons underlying this heterogeneity are unknown. Deficient apoptosis in rheumatoid synovial tissue has been recently demonstrated. We have therefore decided to study the synovial expression of survivin, a key member of the apoptosis inhibitor family. The levels of survivin and antibodies against survivin were assessed by an ELISA in matched blood and synovial fluid samples collected from 131 RA patients. Results were related to joint erosivity at the time of sampling. Monocytes were transfected with survivin anti-sense oligonucleotides and were assessed for their ability to produce inflammatory cytokines. Survivin levels were significantly higher in patients with destructive disease as compared with in RA patients displaying a non-erosive disease. High survivin levels were an independent prognostic parameter for erosive RA. In contrast, high levels of antibodies against survivin were found in patients with non-erosive RA, and were negatively related to erosivity. Survivin levels in RA patients were influenced by treatment, being significantly lower among patients treated with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Specific suppression of survivin mRNA resulted in downregulation of IL-6 production. We conclude that survivin determines the erosive course of RA, whereas survivin antibodies lead to a less aggressive course of the disease. These findings together with decreased survivin levels upon disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug treatment, and the downregulation of inflammatory response using survivin anti-sense oligonucleotides, suggest that extracellular survivin expression mediates the erosive course of joint disease whereas autoimmune responses to the same molecule, manifested as survivin targeting antibodies, mediate protection.
Effect of synovial fluid, phosphate-buffered saline solution, and water on the dissolution and corrosion properties of CoCrMo alloys as used in orthopedic implants.	The corrosion and dissolution of high- and low-carbon CoCrMo alloys, as used in orthopedic joint replacements, were studied by immersing samples in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), water, and synovial fluid at 37 degrees C for up to 35 days. Bulk properties were analyzed with a fine ion beam microscope. Surface analyses by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and Auger electron spectroscopy showed surprisingly that synovial fluid produced a thin oxide/hydroxide layer. Release of ions into solution from the alloy also followed an unexpected pattern where synovial fluid, of all the samples, had the highest Cr concentration but the lowest Co concentration. The presence of carbide inclusions in the alloy did not affect the corrosion or the dissolution mechanisms, although the carbides were a significant feature on the metal surface. Only one mechanism was recognized as controlling the thickness of the oxide/hydroxide interface. The analysis of the dissolved metal showed two mechanisms at work: (1) a protein film caused ligand-induced dissolution, increasing the Cr concentration in synovial fluid, and was explained by the equilibrium constants; (2) corrosion at the interface increased the Co in PBS. The effect of prepassivating the samples (ASTM F-86-01) did not always have the desired effect of reducing dissolution. The release of Cr into PBS increased after prepassivation. The metal-synovial fluid interface did not contain calcium phosphate as a deposit, typically found where samples are exposed to calcium rich bodily fluids.
In vivo effects of carprofen, deracoxib, and etodolac on prostanoid production in blood, gastric mucosa, and synovial fluid in dogs with chronic osteoarthritis.	To evaluate in vivo activity of carprofen, deracoxib, and etodolac on prostanoid production in several target tissues in dogs with chronic osteoarthritis.
Lactate dehydrogenase activity and its isoenzymes in serum and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.	By determining the total activity of total lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-T) and its isoenzymes in serum and synovial fluid (SF) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteo-arthritis (OA) we demonstrated in RA serum increased (p less than 0.02) activity of hepatic LDH (LDH-H) and a shift of the LDH isoenzymatic profile towards the M forms; in rheumatoid SF increased (p less than 0.001) activity of the total LDH-T and LDH-H which makes possible the use of these markers of inflammation in assessing RA activity. Values for LDH-T and LDH-H of 400-700 U/l and 300-500 U/l, respectively, correspond to moderate disease activity, while values exceeding 750 U/l and 550 U/l, respectively, correspond to high RA activity. The anaerobic isoenzymatic distribution of LDH in rheumatoid SF results in a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in LDH1 and LDH2 and an increase (p less than 0.001) in LDH4 and LDH5.
Serum, knee synovial fluid and joint tissue cefuroxime concentration in perioperative use before orthopedic interventions after tourniquet or in the bloodless field]	A requirement to be met when administering perioperative prophylactic antibiotics as a standard with many orthopedic surgeons in artificial joint replacement is the achievement of sufficient concentrations of substance in the operative field. Following the i.v. short-infusion of 1.5 mg Cefuroxime-Sodium in 65 cases of knee joint surgery using a mid-thigh tourniquet substance levels were measured in samples of blood serum, synovial fluid and knee joint capsule. The Cefuroxime concentration in synovial fluids was found to be an average of 25.3 +/- 15.4 mcg/ml at the beginning and 14.9 +/- 10.7 mcg/ml at the end of the operations. Samples of joint capsule that had been taken during the operation showed substance levels of 20.6 +/- 11.1 mcg/ml. 13% of these samples showed substance levels below 4.0 mcg/ml which is the estimated breakpoint of full sensitivity of potentially infective bacteria. The relation of Cefuroxime concentrations in the synovial fluid to the length of time between the end of the infusion and the application of the tourniquet proved to be statistically nonsignificant (covariance analysis; p = 0.05). Nevertheless the determined differences showed a tendency which agrees with the findings of other authors who conclude, that a minimum exposure time of ten minutes is essential.
Catabolism of hyaluronan in the knee joint of the rabbit.	Catabolism of hyaluronan was studied by injecting hyaluronan labelled with [125I]-tyramine cellobiose ([125I]-TC) into knee joints of rabbits. After endocytosis [125I]-TC remains intracellularly allowing localization of the site of catabolism. At 6 hours after injection 63% could be recovered in and around the joint, while at 48 hours 32% remained locally. Chromatography showed that 12% of the injected tracer was degraded in joint tissues at 6 hours, increasing to 33% at 24 hours. There was no apparent degradation within the joint fluid. No tracer was found in the regional lymph glands, but 16% of the injected tracer was detected in the liver at 24 hours. This investigation demonstrates that hyaluronan in the joint can be degraded both locally and in the liver.
Studies on matrix components relevant to structure and function of the temporomandibular joint]	Proteoglycans (PGs), or their component glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains, have long been recognized as small in quantity but as significant components for many connective tissues. The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disc and synovial fluid were rarely investigated in this regard. This research was aimed at the biochemical analysis of the composition of collagen, GAGs and PGs in the normal human and porcine TMJ discs, and of PGs in the synovial fluid. 1. The collagen type analysis by gel electrophoresis revealed that the human and porcine TMJ discs were composed only of type I collagen. 2. The human TMJ disc contained 69.9% chondroitin sulfate, 24.5% dermatan sulfate, 5.6% hyaluronic acid and a trace amount of keratan sulfate, and the porcine TMJ disc, 5.8%, 91.4%, 2.8% and a trace amount, respectively. Immunohistochemical staining of the functional parts of the TMJ disc showed a universal distribution of these GAGs. 3. PGs were extracted from the TMJ disc with 4 M guanidine chloride and separated by ion-exchange and gel-filtration chromatography. A high molecular weight PG resembling the cartilage PG and two low molecular weight PGs having a core protein of Mr 40 K were isolated. 4. PGs suggested to be derived from the matrix of other tissues were found in the abnormal human synovial fluid. From these results it was suggested that the TMJ disc was thought not to be fibrocartilage but a fibrous tissue adapted against to the compressive and tensile force.
The effect of cyclic deformation and solute binding on solute transport in cartilage.	Diffusive transport must play an important role in transporting nutrients into cartilage due to its avascular nature. Recent theoretical studies generally support the idea that cyclic loading enhances large molecule transport through advection. However, to date, reactive transport, i.e. the effects of solute binding, has not yet been taken into consideration in cyclically deformed cartilage. In the present study, we develop a reactive transport model to describe the potential role of binding of solute within cyclically deformed cartilage. Our results show that binding does have a significant effect on transport, particularly for the low IGF-I concentrations typical of synovial fluid. A dynamic loading regime of high strain magnitudes (up to 10%) in combination with high frequencies (e.g. 1 Hz) was seen to produce the most dramatic results with enhanced total uptake ratio as high as 25% averaged over the first 5h of cyclic loading.
Hepatocyte growth factor induction of macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 and osteophyte-inducing factors in osteoarthritis.	In osteoarthritis (OA), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is supposed to play a role in cartilage repair. Because the development of osteophytes is a major characteristic of OA and thought to be part of an attempted repair process, the purpose of this study was to determine whether HGF may be involved in osteophyte formation. HGF levels in synovial fluids from 41 patients assessed by enzyme immunosorbant assay were correlated with disease severity and osteophyte formation, evaluated by anteroposterior weight-bearing radiographs. Detection of HGF, c-Met, and CD68 in cartilage and synovial tissues was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Effects of HGF on the secretion of TGF-beta1 and BMP-2 by chondrocytes, fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLS), and macrophages as well as HGF-induced secretion of MCP-1 by FLS and chondrocytes were determined by ELISA. HGF was detected in all synovial fluids and concentrations correlated highly with disease severity and osteophyte formation (p < 0.001). Immunohistochemistry revealed weak synovial staining for HGF, whereas increasing numbers of HGF expressing chondrocytes were detected depending on disease severity. In addition, an increased number of macrophages in synovial specimens was observed, which was likewise severity dependent. In a series of subsequent in vitro studies, HGF remarkable induced MCP-1 secretion by FLS in a dose-dependent manner. No effect on TGF-beta1 and BMP-2 secretion by FLS and chondrocytes was evident upon HGF stimulation, whereas secretion of these growth factors by PMA-differentiated THP-1 cells was significantly increased by HGF. The results indicate that HGF may facilitate osteophyte development by promoting MCP-1-mediated entry of monocytes/macrophages into the OA-affected joint and/or by stimulating macrophage-derived growth factors.
Expression of large tenascin-C splice variants in synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Tenascin-C (TN-C) is a hexameric glycoprotein component of extracellular matrix, and alternative RNA splicing creates two major TN-C size variants (the small and large variants). The large TN-C variants play key roles in many pathologic conditions in adults, including tumorigenesis, regeneration, and inflammation. This cross-sectional study compared levels of large TN-C variants in synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). Synovial fluid samples were obtained from knees of 26 patients with advanced RA and 79 with advanced OA. Expression of TN-C splice variants was examined using Western blotting. The levels of large TN-C variants in synovial fluid were determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Synovium were analyzed for TN-C by immunohistochemistry. Immunoblotting showed the presence of large TN-C variants in synovial fluid from patients with RA and OA. However, levels of large TN-C variants were fourfold higher in RA samples compared with OA samples (p < 0.01). Synovial fluid levels of TN-C in RA did not correlate with C-reactive protein levels. Immunohistochemistry of the synovium showed stronger reactivity in RA samples than in OA samples. These results indicate that local synthesis of TN-C is increased during rheumatic disease.
Preparation of rat synovial membrane for studies of cytokine secretion.	The objective of this work was to devise an in vitro system for studies on cytokine secretion by synovial membrane treated as a whole organ with various synoviocyte populations. Synovial membrane from knee joints of WAG rats was dissected and incubated in culture medium without serum for 4 - 48 h. The level of IL-1alpha was determined in synovial lysates and IL-6 in culture medium. The synovial membrane from left and right knee joint of the same rat produced similar amount of cytokines both in lysates and in the medium. Synovial membrane stimulated by LPS for 4 or 24 h gave significantly stronger cytokine response than the membrane from the opposite (control) knee. After 48 h incubation of synovial membrane drastic drop in cytokine level was noted, which indicated on deterioration of the membranes. The test may be useful in studies on factors affecting cytokine secretion by synoviocytes.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha in temporomandibular joint synovial fluid predicts treatment effects on pain by intra-articular glucocorticoid treatment.	The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in temporomandibular joint (TMJ) synovial fluid and blood on the treatment effect on TMJ pain by intra-articular injection of glucocorticoid in patients with chronic inflammatory TMJ disorders. High pretreatment level of TNF-alpha in the synovial fluid was associated with a decrease of TNF-alpha and elimination of pain upon maximal mouth opening. Elimination of this TMJ pain was accordingly associated with decrease in synovial fluid level of TNF-alpha. There was also a significant decrease of C-reactive protein and TMJ resting pain after treatment. In conclusion, this study indicates that presence of TNF-alpha in the synovial fluid predicts a treatment effect of intra-articular injection of glucocorticoid on TMJ movement pain in patients with chronic TMJ inflammatory disorders.
High levels of inflammatory chemokines and cytokines in joint fluid and synovial tissue throughout the course of antibiotic-refractory lyme arthritis.	To investigate the possible role of chemokines and cytokines in the pathogenesis of Lyme arthritis.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor upregulates angiogenic factors and correlates with clinical measures in rheumatoid arthritis.	To investigate the relationship between macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) levels and clinical measures in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and the potential for regulation of angiogenesis in RA.
Chronic nondestructive arthritis associated with cutaneous polyarteritis.	Two patients with arthritis of the knee joints associated with cutaneous polyarteritis have been followed for 20 and 5 years. The arthritis is characterized by mild to moderate pain and stiffness and inflammatory joint effusions with predominantly polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Despite its chronicity, there has been no clinical or radiologic evidence of joint destruction. Necrotizing inflammation was seen in arteries of the deep skin but not in the small vessels observed in the synovial biopsy specimens.
Relationship between synovial fluid and plasma manganese, arginase, and nitric oxide in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Nitric oxide (NO) participates in the pathogenesis of inflammatory reactions in many autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). There is a reciprocal pathway between arginase and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) for NO production, and Mn is required for arginase activity and stability. To investigate whether NO production related with the arginine-nitric oxide pathway in patients with RA, we measured synovial fluid and plasma nitrite (NOx) levels, arginase activities, and its cofactor manganese (Mn) concentrations in 21 RA patients and 13 healthy control subjects. Plasma albumin levels were measured as an index of nutritional status. NOx levels were determined after the reduction of nitrates to nitrites using the Griess reaction. Whereas, synovial fluid arginase activities and Mn levels were found to be significantly lower (p<0.001, p<0.001, respectively), plasma arginase activities and Mn levels were similar in patients with RA when compared to the control subjects. Plasma and synovial fluid NO levels were similar in patients with RA and in healthy subjects (p>0.05, p>0.05, respectively). There were significantly positive correlations between synovial fluid and plasma arginase activities vs Mn content (r=0.543, p=0.011; r=0.516, p=0.017, respectively) and significantly negative correlations between synovial fluid and plasma NO levels vs arginase activities (r=-0.497, p=0.022; r=-0.508, p=0.019 respectively) in the patients group. Our results indicate that the lower concentration of synovial fluid Mn could cause lower arginase activity and this could also upregulate NO production by increasing L-arginine content in patients with RA.
Recruitment of CD16+ monocytes into synovial tissues is mediated by fractalkine and CX3CR1 in rheumatoid arthritis patients.	CD16+ monocytes, identified as a minor population of monocytes in human peripheral blood, have been implicated in several inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Fractalkine (FKN, CX3CL1), a member of the CX3 C subfamily, is induced by pro-inflammatory cytokines, while a receptor for FKN, CX3CR1, is capable of mediating both leukocyte migration and firm adhesion. Here, we investigated the role of FKN and CX3CR1 in activation of CD16+ monocytes and their recruitment into synovial tissues in RA patients. High levels of soluble FKN were detected in the synovial fluid and sera of RA patients. Circulating CD16+ monocytes showed a higher level of CX3CR1 expression than CD16- monocytes in both RA patients and healthy subjects. High level expression of CX3CR1 was also seen in CD16+ monocytes localized to the lining layer in RA synovial tissue. In the in vitro culture experiments, IL-10 induced CX3CR1 expression on the surface of monocytes, and TNFalpha induced membrane-bound FKN as well as soluble FKN expression in synovial fibroblasts. Moreover, soluble FKN was capable of inducing IL-1beta and IL-6 by activated monocytes. These results suggest that FKN might preferentially mediate migration and recruitment of CD16+ monocytes, and might contribute to synovial tissue inflammation.
Pharmacokinetics of oral doxycycline and concentrations in body fluids and bronchoalveolar cells of foals.	The objective of this study was to determine the disposition of orally administered doxycycline in foals. Six healthy 4- to 8-week-old foals were used. Doxycycline was administered to each foal via the intragastric (IG) route at dosages of 10 and 20 mg/kg, in a cross-over design. After the first 10 mg/kg dose, five additional doses were administered at 12-h intervals. A microbiological assay was used to measure doxycycline activity in serum, urine, peritoneal fluid, synovial fluid, cerebrospinal (CSF), pulmonary epithelial lining fluid (PELF), and bronchoalveolar (BAL) cells. Following administration at 10 mg/kg, mean+/-SD time to peak serum doxycycline activity (tmax) was 3.0+/-1.2 h, maximum serum activity (Cmax) was 2.54+/-0.27 microg/mL, and terminal half-life (t1/2) was 8.5+/-2.8 h. Administration at a dose of 20 mg/kg resulted in a significantly longer tmax (5.5+/-1.8 h) as well as a tendency toward higher Cmax (2.89+/-0.33 microg/mL) and longer t1/2 (11.9+/-2.6 h). After multiple IG doses, doxycycline activity in CSF was significantly lower than concurrent serum activity, whereas peritoneal fluid, synovial fluid, and BAL cell doxycycline activity was similar to concurrent serum activity. Doxycycline activity in urine and PELF was significantly higher than that found at other sites. Oral administration at a dosage of 10 mg/kg every 12 h would maintain serum, PELF, and BAL cell activity above the minimum inhibitory concentrations of Rhodococcus equi, beta-hemolytic streptococci, and other susceptible bacterial pathogens for the entire dosing interval.
A preliminary study of magnetic resonance relaxation times (T1 and T2) in inflammatory and degenerative synovial fluids.	Multiple synovial fluid samples from 21 patients were analysed using standard synovial analysis techniques and by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Significant negative correlations were noted between both T1 (P less than 0.01) and T2 (P less than 0.0006) relaxation times and synovial fluid total protein. No differences in T1 or T2 relaxation times were noted in synovial fluid between 16 patients with inflammatory forms of arthritis and five patients with degenerative arthritis. In a single rheumatoid arthritis patient with concurrent staphylococcal arthritis, T1 and T2 relaxation times did not vary between the active phase and the recovery phase. The lack of any significant differences in the measured relaxation times as a function of joint condition suggest that in vivo magnetic resonance measurements of T1 or T2 for joint analysis may not reveal information of either a diagnostic or pathophysiological nature.
The effect of synovial fluid from injured knee joints on in vitro chondrogenesis.	Various in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that joint homeostasis may have a crucial effect on the quality of regeneration tissue resulting from cartilage tissue engineering techniques. The goal of the current study was to evaluate the effect of synovial fluid (SF) from injured knee joints on in vitro chondrogenesis. Chondrocytes were isolated from a healthy human femoral condyle (post-mortem) and expanded in monolayer for 2 passages. Subsequently, the chondrocytes were redifferentiated for 14 days on collagencoated filters, cultured either in the presence or absence of 10% SF. SF was obtained from 12 injured human knee joints. After 14 days of culture, SF supplementation resulted in a significant downregulation of final proteoglycan (PG) content (7.3 +/- 1.8 mg versus 15.6 +/- 1.3 mg; p = 0.0001), PG content normalized to DNA (0.7 +/- 0.5 mg/microg versus 3.0 +/- 0.6 mg/microg; p < 0.05), relative collagen type II mRNA levels normalized to GAPDH mRNA levels (0.2 +/- 0.3 versus 7.0 +/- 5.6; p < 0.001), and differentiation index (collagen type II/I mRNA ratio; 0.1 +/- 0.2 versus 6.0 +/- 2.9; p < 0.001) as compared to control culture conditions. Additionally, SF-supplemented media resulted in significantly increased cellularity, as reflected by DNA content, compared with control media (1,369 +/- 683 microg versus 514 +/- 72 microg; p < 0.0001). Morphology, and collagen type I, X, and aggrecan mRNA levels were not significantly affected. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that SF from injured human knee joints significantly affects in vitro chondrogenesis and therefore may provide a viable target for future improvement of ACT by refinement of culture techniques, patient selection, or pretreatment of affected joints to restore joint homeostasis.
Familial chondrocalcinosis due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition in English families.	Familial predisposition to chondrocalcinosis (CC) due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition is described in five English kindreds. Two families were characterized by premature-onset polyarticular CC with little associated structural arthropathy. In one of these families, recurrent childhood fits were strongly associated with subsequent development of CC. Affected members of the other three families resembled sporadic disease in showing predominantly late-onset, oligoarticular CC with mild arthritis and destructive change in only one case. Knee synovial fluid levels of inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and nucleoside triphosphate pyrophosphate (NTPP) did not differ from those of 59 sporadic cases of CC due to CPPD, although PPi and NTPP levels in both groups were higher than in normal knee synovial fluid (P less than 0.0001). Urinary PPi levels were not different from normal controls. Screening for other metabolic abnormality was negative in all cases. This is the first report of familial CC in the UK, and the first to associate this condition with childhood fits. Absence of overt primary abnormality of PPi metabolism suggests that other factors relating to crystal nucleation/growth may be more relevant to predisposition in these cases.
Inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase product formation and polymorphonuclear cell degranulation by tenidap sodium in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	We studied the effect of tenidap sodium, a new antiinflammatory/antirheumatic drug (120 mg/day for 7 days), on eicosanoid production and neutrophil degranulation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Endogenous prostaglandin E2 levels and ex vivo production of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) were measured in synovial fluid samples obtained at baseline and 1 week later. We measured peripheral blood polymorphonuclear cell (PMN) degranulation following surface-bound IgG stimulation, a possible 5-lipoxygenase product-mediated event, by determining lactoferrin and elastase release into the culture fluid. We found decreased levels of endogenous prostaglandin E2 as measured by radioimmunoassay, and decreased ex vivo production of LTB4 by PMN as measured by high performance liquid chromatography, in synovial fluid samples from patients who took tenidap. Release of the granule proteins lactoferrin and elastase was decreased in PMN obtained from patients receiving tenidap, as well as in the PMN incubated in vitro with tenidap. Improvement in clinical measures paralleled the biochemical changes. The unique 5-lipoxygenase inhibitory property of tenidap, as measured by LTB4 production and degranulation, suggests that it may have clinical activity which differentiates it from nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs.
Clinical proteomics and new biomarkers in biological fluids]	Protein analysis in biological fluids has been used for many years for diagnosis and monitoring of diseases. First it was quantification of total protein, afterwards the electrophoretic separation of proteins and later the quantification of specific proteins using immunoassays. These proteins are used as biological markers (biomarkers) of disease. Since a few years, proteomics allows the simultaneous analysis of hundreds of proteins, as well as the analysis of their structural modifications. In this review the current situation of clinical proteomics for the discovery of new biomarkers in biological fluids is presented.
Evidence for nonrenal synthesis of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in patients with inflammatory arthritis.	The extrarenal synthesis of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25-(OH)2D] is a characteristic of activated macrophages and has been demonstrated to occur in vitro in synovial fluid macrophages from patients with inflammatory arthritis. To examine whether such synthesis occurs in vivo, 19 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, 5 patient controls, and 5 healthy controls received a challenge oral dose of 250 micrograms 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OHD3) and the serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 response was measured. The median rise in serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 was significantly greater (22 pg/ml) in the rheumatoid patients compared to either of the control groups (8 pg/ml), although the increase in precursor 25-OHD3 was similar in all groups. The serum 1,25-(OH)2D concentration did not rise above the normal upper limit in any of the control subjects but exceeded the normal range in 8 of the rheumatoid patients. Extrarenal 1,25-(OH)2D synthesis is substrate dependent, unlike renal 1 alpha-hydroxylation, which is homeostatically controlled. Excessive 1,25-(OH)2D3 synthesis in the rheumatoid group on raising the 25-OHD3 concentration is indicative of nonrenal production of the hormonal metabolite. Further evidence for substrate-dependent extrarenal synthesis came from measurements of 25-OHD and 1,25-(OH)2D in paired serum and synovial fluid samples from 19 patients with inflammatory arthritis, including 15 with rheumatoid arthritis. Synovial fluid 1,25-(OH)2D was usually present at a lower concentration than serum 1,25(OH)2D, with which it was strongly correlated (Kendall's R = 0.46, P less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oxidative damage to hyaluronate and glucose in synovial fluid during exercise of the inflamed rheumatoid joint. Detection of abnormal low-molecular-mass metabolites by proton-n.m.r. spectroscopy.	Proton Hahn spin-echo n.m.r. spectroscopy was employed to detect abnormal metabolites present in rheumatoid synovial fluid that are derived from the deleterious generation of reactive oxygen radical species during exercise of the inflamed rheumatoid joint. A resonance attributable to a low-molecular-mass N-acetylglucosamine-containing oligosaccharide formed by the oxygen-radical-mediated depolymerization of synovial-fluid hyaluronate was clearly demonstrable when subjects with inflammatory joint disease were exercised. Moreover, formate, which may be derived from the attack of OH.radical on synovial-fluid carbohydrates, was also readily detectable in these samples. gamma-Radiolysis of rheumatoid synovial fluid samples and aqueous solutions of hyaluronate also gave rise to the production of the low-molecular-mass hyaluronate-derived oligosaccharide species and markedly elevated concentrations of (non-protein-bound) formate in the biological fluids. As expected, corresponding spectra of gamma-irradiated blood serum samples obtained from normal volunteers did not contain the signal attributable to the low-molecular-mass oligosaccharide species, but the formate resonance (barely detectable in non-irradiated normal serum samples) became clearly visible. Additionally, a curious increase in the effective concentration of non-protein-bound low-molecular-mass metabolites such as acetate, citrate, lactate and glutamine was observed after gamma-radiolysis of all biological fluids studied. The hyaluronate-derived low-molecular-mass oligosaccharide species and formate are suggested as novel markers of reactive oxygen radical activity in the inflamed rheumatoid joint during exercise-induced hypoxic/reperfusion injury.
Degradation of human cartilage by synovial fluid but not cytokines in vitro.	Synovial fluids from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and from patients with osteoarthritis degraded the matrix of living, but not killed, normal human cartilage as judged by loss of glycosaminoglycans. Normal human serum did not degrade living cartilage and neither, unexpectedly, did recombinant human cytokines.
Clinical correlations with serum C1q levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Previous studies have suggested that serum C1q levels measured during the first 5 years of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may be predictive of the extent of subsequent joint damage. To further evaluate the clinical significance of this marker in RA, levels of C1q were measured by radial immunodiffusion in serum samples from 107 well-characterized patients with RA. Mean levels of C1q were higher in patients with a disease duration less than or equal to 5 years (173 micrograms/ml) than in patients with a disease duration greater than 5 years (148 micrograms/ml) (P = 0.032). Serum C1q levels were correlated with total joint counts and activities of daily living scores, but no correlation was observed with erythrocyte sedimentation rates or with radiographic scores. The results suggest that C1q may be a useful early marker of disease activity in patients with RA.
Cartilage shear dynamics during tibio-femoral articulation: effect of acute joint injury and tribosupplementation on synovial fluid lubrication.	To determine the effects of acute injury and tribosupplementation by hyaluronan (HA) on synovial fluid (SF) modulation of cartilage shear during tibio-femoral articulation.
On the role of diffusible binding partners in modulating the transport and concentration of proteins in tissues.	Here a reactive-diffusion transport model is used to demonstrate two previously undescribed functional roles for diffusible binding partners in the transport of molecules into tissues. The uptake of the insulin-like growth (IGF) and its binding partner the IGF binding protein (IGFBP3) into cartilage is used a specific tissue example to demonstrate a general principal. First, we show that reversible binding between free protein (IGF) and its diffusible binding partner (free IGFBPs) increases the rate of protein uptake into the tissue. Second, selective degradation of the binding partner can increase the transient and steady state free protein in tissues, well above the concentration at the source boundary, with the maximum free concentration occurring distant from the source boundary, deep within the tissue. This finding is very much at odds with expectations based on a traditional diffusion analysis. In cartilage, using realistic parameters, these new mechanisms raise the free IGF concentration by an order of magnitude deep within the tissue. As the increase in free protein is 'tunable' by cells, our analyses are postulated to demonstrate a general regulatory principle that may operate in any tissues throughout the body.
Effect of interleukin-32gamma on differentiation of osteoclasts from CD14+ monocytes.	Interleukin-32 (IL-32) induces various inflammatory molecules in human monocytes and differentiation of monocytes into macrophage-like cells. This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of IL-32gamma, the most biologically active isoform, on the differentiation and activation of osteoclasts.
Clinical and biochemical characteristics after intra-articular injection for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: prospective randomized study of sodium hyaluronate and corticosteroid.	Intra-articular injections of sodium hyaluronate (Na-HA) and corticosteroid (CS) are often used for the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA), and the clinical usefulness of such treatment has been reported. Some studies have discussed the effectiveness of intra-articular drug injection therapy in terms of the clinical results, but no cohort studies have performed evaluations of effectiveness based on changes in joint biomarkers. This prospective randomized study compared the efficacy of Na-HA and CS injections based on clinical scores and levels of biochemical markers for osteoarthritis.
Pharmacokinetics of the R(-) and S(+) enantiomers of ibuprofen in the serum and synovial fluid of arthritis patients.	Eight patients with arthritis and knee effusions received 13 doses of a single 800-mg ibuprofen tablet every 8 hours. Serum and synovial fluid samples were obtained after the first and last doses and assayed for the R(-) and S(+) enantiomers of ibuprofen by a stereospecific assay. Since only S(+)-ibuprofen inhibits cyclo-oxygenase, a description of the time course of this isomer in synovial fluid is needed for the development of suitable pharmacodynamic models. The isomers were significantly different with respect to peak concentrations and areas under the concentration-time curves (AUC) in synovial fluid levels. No significant accumulation of either isomer was observed in serum or synovial fluid levels between the first and the last doses. The steady-state concentration of both isomers fluctuated less in synovial fluid than in plasma, and the synovial fluid concentrations of the S(+) isomer were about twice that of the R(-) isomer. The mean synovial albumin concentration was about 60% of the serum albumin concentration, and the steady-state isomer AUC values in synovial fluid were significantly correlated with the corresponding serum values after the differences between the two fluids with respect to albumin concentration were corrected. The authors conclude that binding of the isomers to albumin and the serum-synovial fluid albumin ratio controls the steady-state distribution of the ibuprofen isomers into synovial fluid. The ramifications of these findings in the development of satisfactory concentration-response relationships are discussed.
Correlation of changes in pain intensity with synovial fluid adenosine triphosphate levels after treatment of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee with high-molecular-weight hyaluronic acid.	We sought to determine whether a clinical association exists between osteoarthritis (OA)-associated knee pain and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in synovial fluid (SF). A total of 28 patients with 28 primary OA knees were included. They routinely received intra-articular injection of high-molecular-weight hyaluronic acid (HA) once weekly for 5 weeks (treated group). Eight patients without knee pain who had undergone an operation for anterior or posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction 2 years ago were also examined (control group). SF and blood ATP concentrations, total amount of ATP, total SF volume, and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores in all patients were measured and we compared pre-treatment values with those 1 week after the final treatment. We evaluated the correlation of change in total ATP (ATP) and change in VAS score (VAS), VAS and change in SF volume (SF), and ATP concentration in SF and blood. In the treated group, SF ATP concentration, total amount of ATP, SF volume, and VAS score were all significantly lower post-treatment than pre-treatment (p = 0.0005, 0.0003, 0.0022, and < 0.0001, respectively). In treated group, VAS was significantly associated with ATP (r = 0.56, p = 0.0032), SF was significantly associated with VAS (r = 0.78, p < 0.0001), and total amount of SF ATP and SF volume at pre-treatment were significantly higher than the control group (p < 0.0001, p < 0.0001) We demonstrated an association between SF ATP level changes and OA knee pain, which should facilitate a further understanding of OA pain mechanisms.
A bifunctional role for group IIA secreted phospholipase A2 in human rheumatoid fibroblast-like synoviocyte arachidonic acid metabolism.	Human group IIA-secreted phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)-IIA) is an important regulator of cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses in both in vitro and in vivo models of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, treatment of RA patients with sPLA(2)-IIA inhibitors shows only transient benefit. Using an activity-impaired sPLA(2)-IIA mutant protein (H48Q), we show that up-regulation of TNF-dependent PGE(2) production and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) induction by exogenous sPLA(2)-IIA in RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) is independent of its enzyme function. Selective cytosolic phospholipase A(2)- (cPLA(2)-) inhibitors abrogate TNF/sPLA(2)-IIA-mediated PGE(2) production without affecting COX-2 levels, indicating arachidonic acid (AA) flux to COX-2 occurs exclusively through TNF-mediated activation of cPLA(2)-. Nonetheless, exogenous sPLA(2)-IIA, but not H48Q, stimulates both AA mobilization from FLSs and microparticle-derived AA release that is not used for COX-2-dependent PGE(2) production. sPLA(2)-IIA-mediated AA production is inhibited by pharmacological blockade of sPLA(2)-IIA but not cPLA(2)-. Exogenous H48Q alone, like sPLA(2)-IIA, increases COX-2 protein levels without inducing PGE(2) production. Unlike TNF, sPLA(2)-IIA alone does not rapidly mobilize NF-B or activate phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, two key regulators of COX-2 protein expression, but does activate the ERK1/2 pathway. Thus, sPLA(2)-IIA regulates AA flux through the cPLA(2)-/COX-2 pathway in RA FLSs by up-regulating steady state levels of these biosynthetic enzymes through an indirect mechanism, rather than direct provision of substrate to the pathway. Inhibitors that have been optimized for their potency in enzyme activity inhibition alone may not adequately block the activity-independent function of sPLA(2)-IIA.
HLA-G and HLA-E in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis.	To investigate the expression and release of HLA-G and HLA-E in JIA.
Effect of resveratrol on cartilage protection and apoptosis inhibition in experimental osteoarthritis of rabbit.	To observe the effect of resveratol on cartilage, chondrocyte apoptosis, and nitric oxide in experimental osteoarthritis (OA) of rabbit and to study the mechanism of resveratol in the treatment of osteoarthritis. Thirty New Zealand rabbits were randomly divided into 5 groups: group A (normal control group), group B (model control group), group C (resveratrol intervention high-dosage group), group D (resveratrol intervention middle dosage group), and group E (resveratrol intervention low-dosage group). The model of OA of the knee was established using Hulth technique in groups B, C, D, and E. After 4 weeks, group A and group B rabbits were administered daily a knees injection of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), whereas groups C, D, and E were administered daily a knees injection of resveratrol in DMSO in different dosages for 2 weeks. Daily dosage for rabbits of groups C, D, and E was fixed at 50, 20, and 10 mol/kg, respectively. Then, the rabbits were killed, and the lateral cartilage sections of right femoral medial condyle were evaluated using a histological scoring system (H&E and safranin-O staining) and analyzed by TUNEL for apoptosis. Nitric oxide (NO) in synovial fluid was measured by nitrate reduction method. Histological evaluation of cartilage tissue revealed a significantly reduced cartilage destruction; the evaluation also revealed the loss of matrix proteoglycan content in cartilage in resveratrol intervention groups compared to the model control. Resveratrol reduced the apoptosis rate of chondrocyte and level of NO in the synovial fluid. In the above experiments of OA rabbits, the protective effects of resveratrol were enhanced with increased resveratrol dosage. Resveratrol controls the progression of experimental OA. One of the mechanism(s) responsible for this effect would include lowering of the apoptosis rate of chondrocyte and reducing the production of NO in experimental OA.
Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand serum and synovial fluid level. A comparative study between rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.	To assess the levels of receptor activator of NF-B ligand (RANKL) in serum and synovial fluid (SF) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) and to correlate its levels with disease activity and severity. Serum and SF levels of RANKL were measured in 24 patients with RA (Group I) and 20 patients with OA (Group II); patients were selected according to the ACR criteria, and serum RANKL was measured in 13 healthy controls. All patients were subjected to full rheumatological assessment. In RA group, serum level of RANKL was significantly higher than control group (P=0.01), but not correlated with disease activity and severity parameters apart from number of tender joints (P=0.03). SF level of RANKL was significantly correlated with disease duration (P=0.02), number of tender (P=0.002) and swollen joints (P=003), ESR (P=0.01), CRP (P=0.000), DAS-28 (P=0.004), and SENS (P=0.03). In patients with OA, serum level of RANKL was significantly higher than the control group (P<0.001), and it was statistically insignificant with clinical, laboratory, or radiological data, while SF level of RANKL was statistically significantly higher in patients with Heberden and Bouchard nodes (P=0.007), Kellgren-Lawrence score (P=0.002), and with the erosive changes of hands (P=0.006). The mean serum RANKL in RA group was insignificant with that of total OA group. SF level of RANKL was significantly higher in RA than erosive OA patients and in erosive than non-erosive OA with (P=0.001, in each one). The SF level of RANKL is an important marker of both disease activity and severity in RA patients; while in OA patients, it is an important marker of disease severity especially in erosive than non-erosive types. Serum level of RANKL may be of low benefit in disease activity and severity of both rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
Hypoxia induces mitochondrial mutagenesis and dysfunction in inflammatory arthritis.	To assess the levels and spectrum of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) point mutations in synovial tissue from patients with inflammatory arthritis in relation to in vivo hypoxia and oxidative stress levels.
Topology of calculating pressure and friction coefficients for time-dependent human hip joint lubrication.	The paper deals with the calculations of the unsteady, impulsive pressure distributions, carrying capacities and friction forces under unsteady conditions in a super-thin layer of biological synovial fluid inside the slide biobearing gap limited by a spherical bone head. Unsteady and random flow conditions for the biobearing lubrication are given. Moreover, the numerical topology of pressure calculation for a difference method is applied. From a mathematical viewpoint the present method for the solution of the modified Reynolds equation allows this problem to be resolved by the partial recurrence nonhomogeneous equation of the second order with variable coefficients. To the best of the author knowledge, an adaptation of the known numerical difference method to the spherical boundary conditions applied during the pressure calculations for a human hip bonehead seems to be decisive.
Spontaneous resolution of acute gouty arthritis is associated with rapid induction of the anti-inflammatory factors TGF1, IL-10 and soluble TNF receptors and the intracellular cytokine negative regulators CIS and SOCS3.	The molecular basis for spontaneous resolution of acute gouty arthritis (GA) remains unclear. The hypothesis that extracellular and intracellular mechanisms play roles in resolving acute GA was tested.
Associations between proinflammatory cytokines in the synovial fluid and radiographic grading and pain-related scores in 47 consecutive patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.	One of the sources of knee pain in osteoarthritis (OA) is believed to be related to local chronic inflammation of the knee joints, which involves the production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), interleukin (IL)-6, and nerve growth factor (NGF) in the synovial membrane, and these cytokines are believed to promote pathological OA. In the present study, correlations between proinflammatory cytokines in knee synovial fluid and radiographic changes and functional scores and pain scores among OA patients were examined.
Tenascin-C induces inflammatory mediators and matrix degradation in osteoarthritic cartilage.	Tenascin-C (TN-C) is an extracellular matrix glycoprotein that is involved in tissue injury and repair processes. We analyzed TN-C expression in normal and osteoarthritic (OA) human cartilage, and evaluated its capacity to induce inflammatory and catabolic mediators in chondrocytes in vitro. The effect of TN-C on proteoglycan loss from articular cartilage in culture was also assessed.
Relationship between placenta growth factor 1 and vascularization, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate to dehydroepiandrosterone conversion, or aromatase expression in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with osteoarthritis.	Proliferating pannus is in many aspects similar to placental tissue. Both fibroblast-rich tissues have high vascularity, and tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and patients with osteoarthritis (OA) demonstrates conversion of androgenic prehormones to downstream estrogens. We undertook this study to investigate similarities between proliferating pannus and placental tissue by focusing on angiogenic placenta growth factor 1 (PlGF-1) in patients with OA and patients with RA.
Plasma and synovial fluid connective tissue growth factor levels are correlated with disease severity in patients with knee osteoarthritis.	Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) has been implicated in development of osteoarthritis (OA).
Association of MIF in serum and synovial fluid with severity of knee osteoarthritis.	Recent evidences suggest that inflammation contributes to the development and progression of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aims to determine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) levels in serum and synovial fluid (SF) of patients with knee OA and to analyze the association of MIF levels with the radiographic severity of OA.
Local versus systemic anti-tumour necrosis factor- effects of adalimumab in rheumatoid arthritis: pharmacokinetic modelling analysis of interaction between a soluble target and a drug.	The pharmacokinetic models that are applied to describe the disposition of therapeutic antibodies assume that the interaction between an antibody and its target takes place in the central compartment. However, an increasing number of therapeutic antibodies are directed towards soluble/mobile targets. A flawed conclusion can be reached if the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis assumes that the interaction between the therapeutic antibody and its target takes place in the central compartment. The objective of this study was to assess the relative importance of local versus systemic interactions between adalimumab and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)- in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), identify localization of the site of adalimumab action and assess the efficacy of local (intra-articular) versus systemic adalimumab administration for treatment of RA.
Some biochemical parameters of the synovial liquid for estimation of effectiveness of the treatment of the knee joint osteoarthrosis]	The knee joint osteoarthrosis is accompanied by activation of the oxidative stress in the synovial liquid. Specific treatment decreased or even normalized such biochemical parameters of the synovial liquid as the carbonyl groups, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and total protein content. The most demonstrative changes were found for early and late markers of the oxidative modification of proteins. These parameters may be used in laboratory diagnostics of the depth of the degenerative-dystrophic process in the knee joint and for the estimation of the effectiveness of the treatment.
Aggrecanase cleavage in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients is minimally detected in the aggrecan interglobular domain but robust at the aggrecan C-terminus.	To investigate aggrecan degradation in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).
Intra-articular delivery of purified mesenchymal stem cells from C57BL/6 or MRL/MpJ superhealer mice prevents posttraumatic arthritis.	Joint injury dramatically enhances the onset of osteoarthritis (OA) and is responsible for an estimated 12% of OA. Posttraumatic arthritis (PTA) is especially common after intra-articular fracture, and no disease-modifying therapies are currently available. We hypothesized that the delivery of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) would prevent PTA by altering the balance of inflammation and regeneration after fracture of the mouse knee. Additionally, we examined the hypothesis that MSCs from the MRL/MpJ (MRL) "superhealer" mouse strain would show increased multilineage and therapeutic potentials as compared to those from C57BL/6 (B6) mice, as MRL mice have shown exceptional in vivo regenerative abilities. A highly purified population of MSCs was prospectively isolated from bone marrow using cell surface markers (CD45-/TER119-/PDGFR+/Sca-1+). B6 MSCs expanded greater than 100,000-fold in 3 weeks when cultured at 2% oxygen and displayed greater adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic differentiation as compared to MRL MSCs. Mice receiving only a control saline injection after fracture demonstrated PTA after 8 weeks, but the delivery of 10,000 B6 or MRL MSCs to the joint prevented the development of PTA. Cytokine levels in serum and synovial fluid were affected by treatment with stem cells, including elevated systemic interleukin-10 at several time points. The delivery of MSCs did not reduce the degree of synovial inflammation but did show increased bone volume during repair. This study provides evidence that intra-articular stem cell therapy can prevent the development of PTA after fracture and has implications for possible clinical interventions after joint injury before evidence of significant OA.
The biophysical mechanisms of altered hyaluronan concentration in synovial fluid after anterior cruciate ligament transection.	The residence time of hyaluronan (HA) in knee joint synovial fluid (SF) was investigated using a rabbit anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) model. The aims of this study were to assess, at 7 and 28 days after surgery, the 1) HA concentration and molecular mass (M(r) ) distribution in the SF, 2) endogenous replenishment of HA after saline washout, 3) HA residence times in the SF, and 4) synovium and subsynovium cellularity of the knee joints of rabbits subjected to ACLT, compared to sham-operated and nonoperated control joints.
Expression of synovial fluid and articular cartilage VIP in human osteoarthritic knee: a new indicator of disease severity?	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a molecule shared by the neuroendocrine immune network and is considered to be a potential candidate for treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Although some recent studies demonstrate that VIP has a protective role in animal RA models, its variant in different disease grade of OA remains uncertain.
Improved flow cytometric assessment reveals distinct microvesicle (cell-derived microparticle) signatures in joint diseases.	Microvesicles (MVs), earlier referred to as microparticles, represent a major type of extracellular vesicles currently considered as novel biomarkers in various clinical settings such as autoimmune disorders. However, the analysis of MVs in body fluids has not been fully standardized yet, and there are numerous pitfalls that hinder the correct assessment of these structures.
Ampicillin alone and in combination with riboflavin modulates Staphylococcus aureus infection induced septic arthritis in mice.	Effects of ampicillin (Amp) in combination with riboflavin on septic arthritis in mice infected with Staphylococcus aureus have been reported. Ampicillin was given at 100 mg/kg after 24 h of infection, followed by riboflavin (Ribo) at 20 mg/kg body wt, after 2 h of Amp treatment. Mice were sacrificed at 3, 9, 15 days post infection (dpi). Combined treatment of infected mice with ampicillin and riboflavin eradicated the bacteria from blood, spleen and synovial tissue and showed a significant gross reduction in arthritis, reduced serum levels of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. S. aureus infected mice exhibited higher synovial TNF-alpha and IL-6, which was also reduced by ampicillin and riboflavin treatment. S. aureus infected mice showed a disturbed antioxidant status measured in terms of cellular anti-oxidants like reduced glutathione and anti-oxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase and catalase and were ameliorated when the animals were co-treated with ampicillin along with riboflavin. Results of the study showed that combined treatment with anti-oxidant and antibiotic may protect from staphylococcal arthritis and may ameliorate oxidative stress caused by S. aureus infection.
The liver X receptor pathway is highly upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis synovial macrophages and potentiates TLR-driven cytokine release.	Macrophages are central to the inflammatory processes driving rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovitis. The molecular pathways that are induced in synovial macrophages and thereby promote RA disease pathology remain poorly understood.
Resistin in inflammatory and degenerative rheumatologic diseases. Relationship between resistin and rheumatoid arthritis disease progression.	To assess and compare resistin levels in the serum and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA; an inflammatory rheumatologic disease) and osteoarthritis (OA; a degenerative rheumatologic disease) and to study the relationship between resistin levels and prognostic factors of RA disease progression.
Effect of perioperative parecoxib on postoperative pain and local inflammation factors PGE2 and IL-6 for total knee arthroplasty: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	To assess the efficacy of postoperative pain management and the concentration change of PGE-2 and IL-6 of joint fluid with parecoxib after postoperative total knee arthroplasty. In the study, 100 patients experiencing primary TKA were randomly divided into study group, receiving parecoxib sodium (40mg) intravenously (IV) at the completion of surgery and once every 12h for totally 6 times postoperatively, and placebo group, receiving normal saline 2mL IV at the same time points. Efficacy was assessed by total amount of morphine consumed, pain intensity, range of motion (ROM), the concentration change of PGE-2 and IL-6 of joint fluid, and postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) postoperatively. Patients in study group consumed significantly less morphine, experienced significant less pain scores, and obtained significantly more ROM (P<0.01) compared with that in placebo group during 3days postoperatively. The concentration of PGE-2 and IL-6 of joint fluid in study group are significantly lower than that in placebo group (P<0.01) during 24h postoperatively. The overall incidence of PONV was low and was not significantly different between the two groups. The present study demonstrated that the perioperative administration of parecoxib after primary TKA resulted in significantly improved postoperative analgesic management as defined by reduction in opioid requirement, lower pain scores and ROM, and significantly lowered local inflammation factors PGE2 and IL-6. 
Intraarticular and systemic inflammatory profiles may identify patients with osteoarthritis.	To determine whether cytokine/chemokine profiles from synovial fluid and sera discriminate mild/moderate osteoarthritis (OA) from normal and severe OA cohorts.
Identification of a specific haptoglobin C-terminal fragment in arthritic synovial fluid and its effect on interleukin-6 expression.	Haptoglobin (Hp), a major acute-phase plasma protein, has been found in arthritic synovial fluid (SF). However, the function and structural modifications of Hp in arthritic SF are unknown. To investigate in vivo generation of modified Hp associated with inflammatory disease, we examined a new Hp isoform in SF from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Specific Hp fragments of 28000 and 15000 molecular weight were identified in SF of patients with RA, and the two polypeptides were presumed to be fragments of the Hp -chain (43000 MW) produced by cleavage with plasmin. The 15000 MW fragment, which is a C-terminal region of Hp, was observed at higher frequency and levels in RA than in osteoarthritis. Plasmin activity was also higher in SF of RA patients. A recombinant 15000 MW Hp fragment up-regulated interlukin-6 expression in monocytic cells. These findings indicate that the C-terminal Hp fragment is generated by plasmin in local inflammatory environments and acts as an inflammatory mediator. They further suggest that a specific Hp fragment might be applied as a novel biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of inflammatory diseases such as RA. 
Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and local tolerance at injection site of marbofloxacin administered by regional intravenous limb perfusion in standing horses.	To evaluate pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic variables and local tolerance at injection-site of marbofloxacin administered via regional intravenous limb perfusion (RIVLP) in standing horses.
Lipoma arborescens: comparison of typical and atypical disease presentations.	To determine whether the aetiology differed between typical cases of lipoma arborescens with unilateral knee involvement and atypical cases involving joints other than the knee, polyarticular disease, and disease outside of the knee joint.
Increased levels of interleukin 34 in serum and synovial fluid are associated with rheumatoid factor and anticyclic citrullinated peptide antibody titers in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Interleukin 34 (IL-34) is a recently discovered cytokine that binds macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) receptor. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by increased osteoclastogenesis. To identify the significance of IL-34 in RA, the IL-34 concentration was measured in serum and synovial fluid (SF).
Immune-mediated pore-forming pathways induce cellular hypercitrullination and generate citrullinated autoantigens in rheumatoid arthritis.	Autoantibodies to citrullinated protein antigens are specific markers of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Although protein citrullination can be activated by numerous stimuli in cells, it remains unclear which of these produce the prominent citrullinated autoantigens targeted in RA. In these studies, we show that RA synovial fluid cells have an unusual pattern of citrullination with marked citrullination of proteins across the broad range of molecular weights, which we term cellular hypercitrullination. Although histone citrullination is a common event during neutrophil activation and death induced by different pathways including apoptosis, NETosis, and necroptosis/autophagy, hypercitrullination is not induced by these stimuli. However, marked hypercitrullination is induced by two immune-mediated membranolytic pathways, mediated by perforin and the membrane attack complex (MAC), which are active in the RA joint and of importance in RA pathogenesis. We further demonstrate that perforin and MAC activity on neutrophils generate the profile of citrullinated autoantigens characteristic of RA. These data suggest that activation of peptidylarginine deiminases during complement and perforin activity may be at the core of citrullinated autoantigen production in RA. These pathways may be amenable to monitoring and therapeutic modulation. 
On the matter of synovial fluid lubrication: implications for Metal-on-Metal hip tribology.	Artificial articular joints present an interesting, and difficult, tribological problem. These bearing contacts undergo complex transient loading and multi axes kinematic cycles, over extremely long periods of time (>10 years). Despite extensive research, wear of the bearing surfaces, particularly metal-metal hips, remains a major problem. Comparatively little is known about the prevailing lubrication mechanism in artificial joints which is a serious gap in our knowledge as this determines film formation and hence wear. In this paper we review the accepted lubrication models for artificial hips and present a new concept to explain film formation with synovial fluid. This model, recently proposed by the authors, suggests that interfacial film formation is determined by rheological changes local to the contact and is driven by aggregation of synovial fluid proteins. The implications of this new mechanism for the tribological performance of new implant designs and the effect of patient synovial fluid properties are discussed. 
Binding of haptoglobin, inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor, and alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor to synovial fluid hyaluronate and the influence of these proteins on its degradation by oxygen derived free radicals.	Synovial fluid from 201 normal and pathological knee joints was subjected to gel filtration by Sepharose CL-2B chromatography to separate hyaluronic acid (HA) from unbound proteins, which were retarded on this column. HA from all normal fluids was excluded from the gel and contained 1% or less bound protein. Synovial fluids taken from joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) contained considerably more protein bound to HA. In 46% of RA samples the level of protein was greater than 4%, whereas only one fluid examined from osteoarthritic joints contained this amount. The proteins bound to HA from RA joints were identified by sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunodiffusion techniques as the acute phase proteins alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor, inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor, and haptoglobin. The average relative percentages of these proteins bound to HA were 17.6%, 32.6%, and 29.2% respectively. These HA-protein complexes could be generated in vitro by mixing normal (low protein) HA with any one of the three acute phase proteins. The HA-protein complexes formed in vitro with inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor or haptoglobin, and those isolated from RA synovial fluids, were more resistant to degradation by oxygen derived free radicals (ODFR) than HA from normal fluids. From these findings we conclude that certain acute phase proteins diffusing into synovial fluid during inflammatory episodes may play an important part in protecting HA from depolymerisation by activated phagocytes.
The effect of transient conditions on synovial fluid protein aggregation lubrication.	Little is known about the prevailing lubrication mechanisms in artificial articular joints and the way in which these mechanisms determine implant performance. The authors propose that interfacial film formation is determined by rheological changes local to the contact and is driven by aggregation of synovial fluid proteins within the contact inlet region. A direct relationship between contact film thickness and size of the protein aggregation within the inlet region has been observed. In this paper the latest experimental observations of the protein aggregation mechanism are presented for conditions which more closely mimic joint kinematics and loading. Lubricant films were measured for a series of bovine calf serum solutions for CoCrMo femoral component sliding against a glass disc. An optical interferometric apparatus was employed to study the effects of transient motion on lubricant film formation. Central film thickness was measured as a function of time for a series of transient entrainment conditions; start-up motion, steady-state and non-steady-state uni-directional sliding, and bi-directional sliding. The size of the inlet aggregations was found to be dependent upon the type of transient condition. Thick protective protein films were observed to build up within the main contact region for all uni-directional tests. In contrast the inlet aggregation was not observed for bi-directional tests. Contact film thickness and wear was found to be directly proportional to the presence of the inlet protein phase. The inlet phase and contact films were found to be fragile when disrupted by surface scratches or subjected to reversal of the sliding direction. 
Arthritogenic alphaviral infection perturbs osteoblast function and triggers pathologic bone loss.	Arthritogenic alphaviruses including Ross River virus (RRV), Sindbis virus, and chikungunya virus cause worldwide outbreaks of musculoskeletal disease. The ability of alphaviruses to induce bone pathologies remains poorly defined. Here we show that primary human osteoblasts (hOBs) can be productively infected by RRV. RRV-infected hOBs produced high levels of inflammatory cytokine including IL-6. The RANKL/OPG ratio was disrupted in the synovial fluid of RRV patients, and this was accompanied by an increase in serum Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b (TRAP5b) levels. Infection of bone cells with RRV was validated using an established RRV murine model. In wild-type mice, infectious virus was detected in the femur, tibia, patella, and foot, together with reduced bone volume in the tibial epiphysis and vertebrae detected by microcomputed tomographic (CT) analysis. The RANKL/OPG ratio was also disrupted in mice infected with RRV; both this effect and the bone loss were blocked by treatment with an IL-6 neutralizing antibody. Collectively, these findings provide previously unidentified evidence that alphavirus infection induces bone loss and that OBs are capable of producing proinflammatory mediators during alphavirus-induced arthralgia. The perturbed RANKL/OPG ratio in RRV-infected OBs may therefore contribute to bone loss in alphavirus infection. 
TLR2 elicits IL-17-mediated RANKL expression, IL-17, and OPG production in neutrophils from arthritic mice.	We investigated the ability of neutrophils to express receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL), to secrete osteoprotegerin (OPG), and to produce IL-17. Arthritis was induced by intra-articular injection of zymosan, a ligand for Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Frequencies of neutrophils in bone marrow (BM), blood and synovial fluid (SF), receptor expression, and cytokine production were evaluated by flow cytometry. 1A8 antibody (1A8 Ab) was used to deplete neutrophils in zymosan-injected SCID mice. IL-17, RANKL, and OPG amounts in SF, serum, or cell cultures were determined by ELISA. The development of arthritis was associated with increased secretion of IL-17, RANKL, and OPG in serum and SF, elevated frequencies of Ly6G(+)CD11b(+) cells in BM, blood, and SF and upregulated RANKL expression. Both IL-17 and OPG were absent in serum and SF after neutrophil depletion; therefore we assume that they were released by neutrophils. In vitro blood Ly6G(+)CD11b(+) cells from arthritic mice produced spontaneously IL-17, IFN-, and OPG and expressed RANKL. This phenotype was sustained by IL-17. TLR2 engagement increased IL-17 and IFN- production, potentiated IL-17-mediated RANKL expression, and inhibited OPG secretion. We conclude that TLR2 regulates the destructive potential of neutrophils and its targeting might limit joint alterations in arthritis. 
Correlation study between interleukin-17 and ESR and CRP in serum and the synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis patients of accumulated dampness-heat obstruction in joints syndrome]	To probe the function of interleukin-17 (IL-17) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients of accumulated dampness-heat obstruction in joints syndrome (ADOJS) by detecting levels of IL-17 in serum and the synovial fluid and analyzing its correlation with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C reactive protein (CRP).
Synthesis of arachidonate oxidation products by synovial joint tissues during the development of chronic erosive arthritis.	An animal model, antigen-induced arthritis in the rabbit, was used to investigate the synthesis of arachidonic acid oxidation products (eicosanoids) by tissues of the knee joints during the initiation and early phase of this developing chronic destructive lesion. High concentrations of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 and immunoreactive leukotriene B4 were found to be present in the synovial fluid in the early lesion. These levels rapidly declined, as did the ability of the infiltrating cells of the arthritic joint fluids to synthesize leukotriene B4. Articular cartilage and synovial lining were maintained for 24 hours in nonproliferative organ culture, and the synthesis of eicosanoids was measured by assay of the culture fluids. The synovial lining was the major source of eicosanoids. Synthesis of prostaglandin E2, prostacyclin, thromboxane A2, and leukotriene B4 by the arthritic synovial lining was low during the first few days, but reached maximal values between day 5 and day 15 of disease duration. Maximal eicosanoid production occurred around the time that damage to articular cartilage and bone has been reported to occur, though it is not certain that these two events are linked. It was demonstrated that, in chronic lesions, the arthritic synovial lining was still producing elevated levels of eicosanoids compared with levels in the control tissue.
Specific interleukin-1 inhibitor in serum and urine of children with systemic juvenile chronic arthritis.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) activity and inhibition were studied in serum and urine from nine patients with systemic juvenile chronic arthritis (S-JCA). In afebrile patients IL-1 activity was normal or high. Serum from two afebrile S-JCA patients taken during a period of severe disease activity had an enhancing effect on the activity of exogenous IL-1. Secondary amyloidosis subsequently developed in one of these patients. In contrast, in febrile patients' serum and urine IL-1 activity was low, apparently reflecting the presence of a strong inhibitor of IL-1 activity measured by the inhibition of prostaglandin E2 production by synovial cells. This inhibition was greatest at the time of peak temperature, suggesting the possibility of feedback regulation during fever. This novel identification in S-JCA of a specific IL-1 inhibitor that competes at the IL-1 receptor level may be an important step in the understanding of the pattern of fever and the evaluation of disease in patients with S-JCA.
Comparative efficacy of ciprofloxacin and ceftriaxone in experimental arthritis caused by Escherichia coli.	Ciprofloxacin was compared with ceftriaxone in a rabbit model of septic arthritis caused by Escherichia coli. Both agents significantly reduced mean E. coli counts in septic joint fluid (P less than 0.0005 versus untreated controls) and also within infected synovial tissue (P less than 0.01 versus controls). Ciprofloxacin regimens caused a higher frequency (P less than 0.05) of synovial tissue sterilization (53%) than did ceftriaxone (25%).
Elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels in the sera and synovial fluids of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	In a previous study, we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure soluble human interleukin-2 receptors (IL-2R), and found that when activated lymphocytes produce cell-associated IL-2R, they also release a soluble form of IL-2R into culture supernatants in vitro. Soluble IL-2R have also been detected circulating in vivo at low levels in the serum of healthy individuals, and at abnormal levels in a variety of diseases, particularly those where immune dysfunction is thought to play an important role. We therefore evaluated serum IL-2R levels in 77 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and compared them with levels in 46 age-matched healthy controls. Nineteen additional RA patients with concurrently obtained sera and synovial fluid (SF) samples were compared with 14 patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. The serum IL-2R levels were significantly elevated in RA patients, compared with the control groups (P less than 0.0001). Serum IL-2R levels in the RA patients did not correlate with disease activity as determined by a variety of clinical and laboratory parameters. RA SF IL-2R levels were significantly higher than corresponding RA serum IL-2R levels (P = 0.0001). No such difference was noted in the osteoarthritis group, where serum and SF IL-2R levels were comparable with serum levels in healthy controls. These findings support the hypothesis that in vivo lymphocyte activation plays an important role in RA; moreover, soluble IL-2R measurement in serum and SF may be a very useful way to identify patients at risk for, or manifesting, a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory arthropathy.
Interleukin-6 in synovial fluid and serum of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthritides.	Interleukin-6 (IL-6), also called 26-kd protein, hybridoma plasmacytoma growth factor, beta 2-interferon, or B cell stimulatory factor 2, is a recently described human cytokine with multiple growth and differentiation activities. Using a very sensitive bioassay based on the growth factor activity of this protein for B cell hybridomas, we found that IL-6 activity was significantly elevated in synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or other inflammatory arthritides, as compared with that in a group of patients with osteoarthritis. Moreover, IL-6 was detected in about one-third of the serum samples from patients with RA. In the latter group, we found a significant correlation between serum IL-6 activity and serum levels of C-reactive protein, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, alpha 1-antitrypsin, fibrinogen, and haptoglobin, which indicates that IL-6 is related to disease activity in patients with RA.
Serum, synovial and intra-articular pharmacokinetics of naproxen after one-gram oral administration in patients with rheumatoid polyarthritis]	After a reminder of the major points of the pharmacokinetics of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, the authors report the results of a multicentric study of the kinetics of naproxen after oral intake of one single dose of 1 gram in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The half-life is longer in the synovial fluid than in the serum, 23 hours versus 17 hours. The balance point is obtained at the 24th hour and, at that time, the naproxen level in the synovium and the joint fluid are 32 and 60 p. cent, respectively, of the corresponding maximum concentrations.
Quantitative and qualitative changes in the fibronectin level in rheumatoid arthritis]	Blood plasma and synovial fluid (SF) of 48 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were studied. Plasma fibronectin (FN) concentration measured by rocket immunoelectrophoresis was found to be almost the same in patients and in healthy donors (348.6 +/- 16.4 micrograms/ml and 354.3 +/- 10.2 micrograms/ml, respectively. The level of SL FN was shown to rise in RA patients up to 1069.7 +/- 157.2 micrograms/ml, whereas in healthy persons and in posttraumatic synovitis it was equal to 420.0 +/- 112.6 micrograms/ml (p less than 0.05). Using cross-immunoelectrophoresis, the heterogeneity of synovial FN was revealed which was determined by complex formation with hyaluronic acid. It was found that both plasma and synovial fluid possessed higher gelatin-binding activity when compared with control samples as studied by the ability to agglutinate gelatinized particles. Direct correlation was shown between disease development rate and bioassayable plasma and synovial fibronectin.
Complex-formation with hyaluronic acid as a cause of fibronectin heterogeneity in the synovial fluid]	Heterogeneity of synovial fluid fibronectin was studied by means of Laurell cross-immunoelectrophoresis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, posttraumatic synovitis and other arthropathies. Prior to hyaluronidase treatment all the synovial fluid samples exhibited the fibronectin heterogeneity, which disappeared after the action of hyaluronidase. The data obtained suggest that complexes of fibronectin and hyaluronic acid are responsible for physico-chemical heterogeneity of fibronectin in synovial fluid.
Influence of concomitant aspirin or prednisone on methotrexate synovial fluid concentration.	Methotrexate (MTX) is currently being used in the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of two classes of drugs, steroids and salicylates, on MTX synovial fluid concentrations. A novel canine model of monoarticular inflammation was used, in which each animal served as its own control with both inflamed and normal knees in the same animal. After the 6-week immunization process, animals in each group received either no drug (control), prednisone or aspirin (low dose and high dose) for 1 week before MTX. On the day of the study, each animal was given i.v. MTX, and serial serum and synovial fluid samples were obtained. Laboratory, histologic and clinical observations supported the presence of monoarticular inflammation. The end-of-infusion synovial MTX concentration in inflamed knees was significantly greater than in normal knees (P less than .05), but, 2 hr after the end of infusion, they were not different. The end-of-infusion ratio of synovial fluid MTX concentration to serum MTX concentration (both total and unbound) was significantly lower in the prednisone group than in the other treatment groups (P less than .05). The end-of-infusion ratio of the MTX synovial concentration in the inflamed knee compared with the normal knee at 2 hr was significantly lower in the prednisone group than in the other three treatment groups (P less than .05). These results have therapeutic implications for the use of MTX in treating rheumatoid arthritis.
Pharmacokinetics and body fluid and endometrial concentrations of cefoxitin in mares.	Four healthy adult mares were each given a single injection of sodium cefoxitin (20 mg/kg of body weight, IV), and serum cefoxitin concentrations were measured serially during a 6-hour period. The mean elimination rate constant was 1.08/hour and the elimination half-life was 0.82 hour. The apparent volume of distribution (at steady state) and the clearance of the drug were estimated at 0.12 L/kg and 259 ml/hr/kg, respectively. Each mare and 2 additional mares were then given 4 consecutive IM injections of sodium cefoxitin (400 mg/ml) at a dosage of 20 mg/kg. Cefoxitin concentrations in serum, synovial fluid, peritoneal fluid, CSF, urine, and endometrium were measured serially. After IM administration, the highest mean serum concentration was 23.1 micrograms/ml 30 minutes after the 2nd injection. The highest mean synovial concentration was 11.4 micrograms/ml 1 hour after the 4th injection. The highest mean peritoneal concentration was 10.4 micrograms/ml 2 hours after the 4th injection. The highest mean endometrial concentration was 4.5 micrograms/g 4 hours after the 4th injection. Mean urine concentrations reached 11,645 micrograms/ml. Cefoxitin did not readily penetrate the CSF. Bioavailability of cefoxitin given IM was 65% to 89% (mean +/- SEM = 77% +/- 5.9%). One of the 6 mares developed acute laminitis during the IM experiment.
Angiogenic factor from synovial fluid resembling that from tumours.	Synovial fluids from 2 of 2 patients with osteoarthritis, 2 of 8 with rheumatoid arthritis, and 2 of 2 with ankylosing spondylitis contained a low-molecular-weight angiogenesis factor apparently identical with that derived from tumours. The amount of factor present was highest in patients with osteoarthritis, 2 patients with psoriatic arthropathy gave negative results. It is suggested that angiogenesis factor is involved, directly or indirectly, in the production of synovial exudate.
The production of superoxide anion (O2-) by polymorphonuclear cells in patients with rheumatoid arthritis]	Superoxide anion production has been determined in controls and RA patients PMNs stimulated with zymosan, rheumatoid synovial membrane, nodule and synovial fluid, rheumatoid factor, aggregated gamma-globulins, Mycoplasma and Epstein-Barr virus. Patients with RA showed an increased production of O2- after incubation with zymosan and rheumatoid tissue extracts or synovial fluid in comparison to normal controls. The findings indicate that rheumatoid PMNs become activated by different stimuli to produce an excess of O2- which can contribute to chronic inflammatory process.
Synovial cell activation. Studies on the mechanism of action of synovial activator activity.	Synovial activator (SA) from peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulates the plasminogen activator (PA) levels of human synovial fibroblasts. Using the sensitive technique of transcriptional inhibition followed by a prolonged translation period, data suggested that the first synthesis of mRNA needed for the increase in PA activity began within 40-60 min; this increase in protease activity was reversible on removal of SA from the cultures and also declined after about 3 days even if SA was not withdrawn. The RNA dependent events necessary for the synovial cell activation were to a large extent completed by about 4-8 h while those dependent on protein synthesis lasted for about 12 h. The effectiveness of suboptimal concentrations of SA could be potentiated by all-trans retinoic acid. A similar potentiation was effected by phosphodiesterase inhibitors, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and theophylline, by 8-bromo-cAMP, and by prostaglandins of the E and F series; these last observations suggest cyclic nucleotide involvement in the SA-mediated elevation of synovial fibroblast PA activity.
Rheumatoid synovial cells in culture produce a growth inhibitor.	Cultures of synovial cells obtained at surgery from patients with rheumatoid arthritis produced a protein which inhibits the mitosis of normal rabbit and human synovial cells, and of human lung fibroblasts. This mitotic inhibitory effect can be transferred to rabbit synovial cells by intra-articular injection of the animals with rheumatoid synovial cell cultures.
Cefazolin concentrations in bone and synovial fluid.	A single intravenous dose of one gram of cefazolin was administered prophylactically to forty-eight patients undergoing total joint replacement. The serum half-life of the antibiotic was 1.8 hours, the same value found in normal volunteers. The mean concentration in bone during surgery was 5.7 micrograms per gram of bone. The mean concentration in synovial fluid during surgery was 24.4 micrograms per milliliter of fluid.
Kinetics of salicylates from the blood to the articular fluid]	A study was made of the salicylate concentrations in samples of blood and articular fluid from 30 patients treated with acetylsalicylic acid. The data were divided in groups according to the diagnosis of the articular diseases and showed no significant differences as regards the salicylate kinetics in the blood. A concentration of 0.3 mg/1 was reached in 6 minutes on the average and the "near maximum" concentration was 23.0 mg/1 on the average. In the articular fluid a concentration of 0.3 mg/1 the salicylates was reached in 10 to 31 minutes. The average maximum concentration as 14.8 mg/1. The findings support the hypothesis that diffusion was the dominant factor in the passage of salicylates from the blood to the articular fluid. The transport varied with the characteristics of the articular diseases. Histopathological changes in the various types of synovitis would alter the biophysical properties of the internal part of the articularcapsule and would thus alter the kinetics of salicylates.
Body fluid concentrations of ampicillin trihydrate in 6 horses after a single intramuscular dose.	Six adult mares were given a single dose of ampicillin trihydrate (250 mg/ml) intramuscularly at a dosage of 20 mg/kg body weight. Serum, synovial fluid, peritoneal fluid and urine ampicillin concentrations were measured serially over a 48 h period. The mean peak serum ampicillin concentration was 2.49 micrograms/ml at 6 h. Ampicillin was found in synovial fluid and peritoneal fluid, which obtained mean peak ampicillin concentrations of 1.65 micrograms/ml and 1.81 micrograms/ml at 6 h and 4 h respectively. These concentrations declined in parallel with serum concentrations and were still detectable at 48 h. Urine concentration of ampicillin was relatively high, with a mean peak concentration of 1364.9 micrograms/ml at 4 h.
The penetration of metronidazole into synovial fluid.	Six patients with non-infected synovial effusions, associated either with inflammatory or degenerative arthropathy and requiring diagnostic or therapeutic aspiration, were given a short course of 400 mg metronidazole (Flagyl) 8-hourly for 3 doses. Serum and synovial fluid (SF) were sampled frequently during this time, and assayed for metronidazole by a specific high pressure liquid-chromatographic method. It was found that concentrations of metronidazole in SF reached those in serum after a short time-lag, and thereafter approximated to the serum concentration. With this regimen, metronidazole concentrations were readily achieved in synovial fluid, above the minimum inhibitory concentrations for most susceptible anaerobes. These results indicate that the drug freely enters the synovial fluid and suggests that metronidazole would prove effective in the treatment of septic arthritis due to anaerobic bacteria.
Calcium oxalate microcrystalline-associated arthritis in end-stage renal disease.	Chronic renal failure is known to be associated with secondary hyperoxalemia and the deposition of calcium oxalate in visceral organs, bones, and cartilage. We report the identification of calcium oxalate crystals in the synovial fluid of three patients with chronic renal failure. In one patient, calcium oxalate crystals were also identified within synovium and cartilage. Crystals were pleomorphic and bipyramidal. Some crystals were rod-like and had positive birefringence, thus tending to be confused with calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate when observed with only compensated polarized light microscopy. In one patients asymptomatic effusions were associated with joint capsule calcification, but otherwise normal knee radiographs. The other two patients had bilateral knee pain, one having coexistent features of osteoarthritis and the other chondrocalcinosis. Samples of proliferative synovium, joint capsule, and cartilage from the patient with chondrocalcinosis showed abundant calcium oxalate crystals, and not calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate or calcium hydroxyapatite. Thus, radiographically typical chondrocalcinosis may be due to calcium oxalate. Joint disease in chronic renal failure may be associated with calcium oxalate as well as the previously recognized apatite deposition.
Modes of lubrication in human hip joints.	Cadaveric hip joints were tested in a hip function simulator which subjected the femoral head to a cycle of loading and oscillation similar to that experienced during walking and measured the frictional torque transmitted to the acetabulum. Silicone fluids with viscosities from 10-2 Pa s (pascal second) to 30 Pa s were used as lubricants and the transition from mixed to full fluid film lubrication was observed around 5 x 10(-2) Pa s. Sodium carboxymethylcellulose solutions were also tested at the lower viscosities. Hyaluronidase digestion of samples of synovial fluid caused a significant increase in friction over the control samples. Trypsin digestion had no significant effect. No correlation between compliance of the cartilage and the frictional values was observed.
Psoriatic arthropathy and crystal-induced synovitis.	We demonstrated the simultaneous occurrence of psoriatic arthropathy and the 2 major types of crystalline arthritis--pseudogout and gout. The crystals found within aspirated synovial fluid and exudative leukocytes were unequivocally identified using the compensating polarizing microscope as calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate in one case and sodium monourate in the other. The surface topography of the intracellular sodium monourate crystals were also displayed.
High concentrations of immunoreactive gliostatin/platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in synovial fluid and serum of rheumatoid arthritis.	Since neovascularization plays an important role in the propagation of rheumatoid synovitis, we analyzed the concentration of gliostatin/platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (GLS/PD-ECGF), a potent angiogenic and chemotactic factor, in the synovial fluid and serum of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. The immunoreactive GLS/PD-ECGF concentrations (mean value +/- S.D.) in synovial fluid, measured by a sandwich enzyme immunoassay, were significantly higher in RA patients than in osteoarthritis (OA) patients (233.02 +/- 219.40 vs. 9.09 +/- 14.86 ng/g, P < 0.001), and the serum concentrations were also higher in RA patients than in age-matched controls (8.77 +/- 7.60 vs. 3.74 +/- 2.61 ng/ml, P < 0.005). These results suggest that GLS/PD-ECGF may participate in the endothelial proliferation resulting in initiation of the extensive emigration of mononuclear cells and proliferation of the synovial tissues in rheumatoid arthritis, and that the immunoreactive GLS/PD-ECGF in serum as well as synovial fluids may be a useful diagnostic marker of RA.
Substance P-, neurokinin A-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity (-LI) in rat knee joint synovial fluid during acute monoarthritis is not correlated with concentrations of neuropeptide-LI in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma.	In a recent study we have shown a bilateral release of substance P (SP)-, neurokinin A (NKA)-, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like immunoreactivity (-LI) in rat synovial fluid during acute monoarthritis. In order to elucidate the mechanisms underlying these phenomena, we examined the correlation between neuropeptide-LI in rat cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and synovial fluid and between plasma and synovial fluid following the intra-articular injection of equal volumes (0.05 ml) of either Freund's adjuvans, carrageenan 2%, substance P 10(-5) M or human recombinant interleukin-1 alpha. Control rats were given saline intra-articularly. CSF, plasma and synovial fluid from the knee joints were obtained at 2, 6 and 24 h after injection and were analysed by specific radioimmunoassays. The intra-articular injection of pro-inflammatory substances induced changes in neuropeptide-LI in synovial fluid, CSF and plasma. However, there was no correlation between neuropeptide-LI in synovial fluid and plasma or between synovial fluid and CSF. The results of the present study does not support the hypothesis that the bilateral changes in neuropeptide-LI in synovial fluid were due to a release of neuropeptides from the inflamed joint into the systemic circulation. However, in carrageenan induced inflammation there was a tendency towards a correlation in SP-LI between CSF and synovial fluid suggesting that central neurogenic mechanisms should be studied in order to explain the bilateral changes seen.
NK1 receptors mediate tachykinin-induced plasma extravasation in the rat knee joint.	The tachykinin receptor type that mediates tachykinin-induced plasma extravasation in the rat knee joint was identified by using selective antagonists as well as natural or synthetic agonists. Substance P (SP) and neurokinin (NK) A induced plasma extravasation with almost the same potency and the maximum response was obtained at 5 nmol/knee. NKB was about ten times less potent than SP or NKA. The NK1 selective agonist, [Sar9, Met(O2)11]-SP, was about ten times more potent than SP, and the NK2 selective agonist, [Nle10]-NKA4-10, was about fifty times less potent than NK1 agonist. The NK3 agonist, Senktide, was totally ineffective at 0.5-50 nmol/knee. All responses induced by SP (5 nmol/knee), NKA (5 nmol/knee), NKB (50 nmol/knee), NK1 agonist (0.5 nmol/knee) or NK2 agonist (25 nmol/knee) were significantly and profoundly inhibited by the NK1 selective antagonist, RP67580, but not by the NK2 selective antagonist, SR48968. Taken together, we conclude that tachykinin-induced plasma extravasation in the rat knee joint is mediated via NK1 receptors.
Mechanism of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation in the rat knee joint.	1. We have investigated the mechanism of bradykinin (BK)-induced plasma extravasation into the knee joint of the anaesthetized rat. Accumulation of [125I]-human serum albumin within the synovial cavity was used as a marker of increased vascular permeability. 2. Perfusion with BK (1 microM) produced significant plasma extravasation into the knee which was inhibited by co-perfusion of the selective bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8]-bradykinin (Hoe 140, 200 nM). 3. The bradykinin B1 receptor agonist, [des-Arg9]-BK (up to 100 mM), did not induce plasma extravasation into the knee joint, over this time period. 4. Chemical sympathectomy by chronically administered 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) did not inhibit bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation. Acute intra-articular perfusion with 6-OHDA (to stimulate transmitter release from sympathetic nerve terminals) at concentrations up to 50 mM did not induce significant plasma extravasation. Intra-articular perfusion of 100 mM 6-OHDA induced significant plasma extravasation but produced severe systemic toxicity. 5. The selective neurokinin1 (NK1) receptor antagonist, RP67580 (230 nmol kg-1), or receptor antagonists for the mast cell products histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine did not significantly inhibit BK-induced plasma extravasation. 6. Co-perfusion of the NO synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (1 mM) did not significantly inhibit the response to BK. 133Xe clearance from L-NAME (1 mM)-injected joints was significantly (P < 0.05) reduced compared to D-NAME injected joints, suggesting a reduction in blood flow as a result of decreased basal NO production. Systemic administration of L-NAME at doses sufficient to produce significant and sustained elevation of blood pressure (5 or 30 mg kg-1, i.v. 15 min prior to BK perfusion) also failed to significantly inhibit the BK-induced response.7 We conclude that, in normal joints, BK induces plasma extravasation by acting on bradykinin B2 receptors and that this response is not dependent on secondary release of mediators from sympathetic nerve terminals, sensory nerves, mast cells or on generation of NO.
Microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in patients with clinically active and clinically nonactive osteoarthritis.	Microheterogeneity of two acute phase glycoproteins, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) and alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACT), concentrations of AGP, ACT, and C-reactive protein (CRP), and levels of three cytokines: interleukin 1 beta (IL-1-beta), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) were determined in 61 serum samples and 7 synovial fluids (SFs) obtained from patients (n = 61) with osteoarthritis. Using affinity immunoelectrophoresis with concanavalin A (conA), a significant decrease in the reactivity of AGP and ACT with this lectin was found in patients with clinically active osteoarthritis when compared to those with clinically nonactive disease (p < 0.001 and p < 0.05, respectively). There was no increase in the concentration of AGP, ACT, and C-reactive protein (CRP) in the sera examined. In particular, no increase in the serum level of these proteins was found in the patients with clinically active disease. Low concentrations of IL-6 and TNF-alpha were found in most sera and SFs examined. In 6 out of 7 SFs available, IL-6 concentrations were higher than in the respective serum samples but for TNF-alpha the same could be shown in one case only. Low concentrations of IL-1-beta were found in 4 serum samples obtained from patients with clinically active osteoarthritis and in no SF specimen studied. In the entire group, serum level of TNF-alpha correlated weakly with the AGP and ACT reactivity coefficients with conA (r = 0.3634, p < 0.005 and r = 0.3324, p < 0.02, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cytokine levels in serum and synovial fluid of patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.	Cytokines play an important role in mediating inflammation and in regulating the immune response of many rheumatological diseases. In patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), levels of 6 cytokines, interleukin 1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), IL-1 beta (IL-1 beta), IL-2, IL-2 receptor (IL-2R), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) were measured in serum and synovial fluid (SF) in an effort to evaluate their significance.
Thrombomodulin levels in the plasma and joint fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	The hemostatic mechanism is thought to contribute to the inflammatory process of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Thrombomodulin (TM), an inhibitor of blood coagulation, is synthesized by various cells which are recognized in the inflammatory lesions of RA. To elucidate a possible relation of TM with the process of RA, therefore, we measured soluble forms of TM in the plasma and joint fluid (JF) from RA patients by a recently developed sandwich enzyme immunoassay using monoclonal antibodies. TM levels in the plasma and JF were not significantly elevated in RA patients, although TM levels in plasma were positively correlated with those in JF. The plasma TM levels were related to renal functions (serum creatinine levels), but the levels showed no connection with systemic inflammatory indices of RA such as erythrocyte sedimentation rates, serum C-reactive protein levels and Lansbury's activity index. In the JF, TM levels were not correlated with the numbers of neutrophils or monocytes/macrophages associated with articular inflammations. Our results indicate that TM levels in the plasma and JF do not reflect systemic and articular inflammations of RA, and suggest that TM molecules in JF are mainly recruited from circulating TM.
Tumor necrosis factor in synovial fluids of temporomandibular joint dysfunction syndrome]	With the MTT tetrazolium WEHI 164 clone 13 cell cytotoxicity assay, we measured TNF alpha (tumor necrosis factor) activity in synovial fluids of TMJDS (Temporomandibular joint dysfunction syndrome). We found no detected TNF alpha level from 5 patients with muscle dysfunction, raised TNF alpha levels from 5 of 11 patients with internal derangement and from 9 of 11 patients with organic destruction (osteoarthritis). The findings of biologically active TNF alpha in synovial fluids of TMJDS suggest that TNF alpha may play a role in the pathogenesis of TMJDS.
Growth factor activity of IL-6 in the synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	We set out to determine whether the ability of synovial fluids (SF) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to facilitate the proliferation of synovial tissue-derived fibroblastic cell lines was related to the presence of growth factors and/or cytokines.
Group II phospholipase A2 in synovial fluid and serum in acute arthritis.	Increased catalytic activity of synovial-type (group II) phospholipase A2 (syn-PLA2), has been associated with cartilage erosions in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. The catalytic activity of phospholipase A2 and the concentration of syn-PLA2 were measured in a prospective study in synovial fluid (SF) samples from 66 patients with acute knee joint effusion. The median (range) of the concentration of syn-PLA2 in SF was 210 micrograms/l (80-1480 micrograms/l) in culture-positive septic arthritis, 460 micrograms/l (270-1040 micrograms/l) in reactive arthritis, 780 micrograms/l (120-2710 micrograms/l) in osteoarthritis and 230 micrograms/l (80-1400 micrograms/l) in traumatic joint effusions. High concentrations of syn-PLA2 are found also in SF of patients with arthritides not expected to lead to permanent destruction of cartilage.
Aberrant production of gliostatin/platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in rheumatoid synovium.	To purify a protein inhibitor from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fluids which suppresses the apparent incorporation of 3H-thymidine into fibroblasts and synovial cells, and to define its biochemical features that have clinical relevance to the pathogenesis of RA.
Relation between intra-articular temperature of the arthritic temporomandibular joint and presence of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the joint fluid. A clinical study.	Arthritic temporomandibular joints were investigated for intra-articular temperature and joint fluid content of calcitonin gene-related peptide. Eleven patients (16 joints) with rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, or chronic unspecific polyarthritis or monarthritis participated in the study. The intra-articular temperature varied between 35.5 and 37.5 degrees C, with a mean of 36.5 degrees C. The concentration of calcitonin gene-related peptide varied between 7.5 and 749.0 pmol/l, with a mean of 108.6 pmol/l. There was a positive correlation between the intra-articular temperature and the joint fluid concentration of calcitonin gene-related peptide. The plasma level of the peptide was on an average 5% of the joint fluid level.
Pharmacokinetics of tiaprofenic acid in normal rabbits and rabbits subjected to joint immobilisation.	In a previous study, tiaprofenic acid (TA) was administered daily over a 30-day period at 5 and 10 mg/kg of body weight subcutaneously (s.c.) to animals with arthritis induced by immobilisation. The 10 mg/kg dose exacerbated the loss of proteoglycan from joint cartilage but the 5 mg/kg dose showed protective effects on articular cartilage. These results led us to investigate the concentration of TA achieved in synovial fluid of both the immobilised and non-immobilised rabbit joints after single s.c. doses of 5 or 10 mg/kg. The half-lives of elimination of TA from the synovial fluids of the immobilised joints were 1.27 and 1.07 h after the 5 and 10 mg doses, respectively, and 0.66 and 0.39 h in the non-immobilised contralateral joints. Clearances from synovial fluid to plasma were found to be 0.41 and 0.55 ml/h/kg from the immobilised joints after the 5 and 10 mg doses, respectively, and 0.11 and 0.25 ml/h/kg from the non-immobilised contralateral joints. The peak concentration of TA achieved in synovial fluid of immobilised knee joints after a single s.c. injection of 10 mg/kg was approximately two times greater than the concentrations achieved after administration of 5 mg/kg by the same route and two to six times greater than the levels achieved after oral administration of TA at 600 mg/day in humans.
The C1q binding activity of IgG is modified in vitro by reactive oxygen species: implications for rheumatoid arthritis.	IgG can be denatured in vitro by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Native IgG activates the complement cascade through C1q. Using a modified ELISA, C1q binding activity of rheumatoid IgG has been compared to IgG denatured by neutrophil-derived ROS. The C1q binding activity of rheumatoid synovial fluid IgG is greater than the corresponding serum IgG (P < 0.01). Denaturation of IgG by activated polymorphs or the Fenton reaction decreased its C1q binding activity (P < 0.01). In vitro exposure of IgG to OH. and ROO. increased its interaction with C1q (P < 0.01). Hypochlorous acid had no effect. ROS-induced alteration to IgG-C1q binding activity may promote the inflammatory response in rheumatoid arthritis.
Decreased levels of a soluble form of the human adhesion receptor CD58 (LFA-3) in sera and synovial fluids of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Soluble forms of adhesion molecules (sAM) can block cellular interactions and potentially prevent the adhesion of mononuclear cells to inflammatory tissue. We therefore wondered whether levels of a soluble form of the CD2-ligand CD58 (sCD58) are decreased in patients with different types of joint disease.
Quantitation and distribution of vitronectin in synovial fluid and tissue of patients with rheumatic disease.	Our study was undertaken to determine the quantity and pattern of distribution of vitronectin (Vn) in the synovial fluid and tissue of patients with rheumatic disease.
Inorganic pyrophosphate generation from adenosine triphosphate by cell-free human synovial fluid.	To quantify inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) production from extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by human synovial fluids (SF).
Metalloprotease activity, phospholipase A2 activity and cytokine concentration in osteoarthritis synovial fluids.	Collagenase, stromelysin and phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity as well as interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) concentration were determined in the knee joint synovial fluid (SF) of 26 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) and with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Collagenase and stromelysin were detected in 80.7 and 69.2% of OA SF, respectively. When present, the mean activity of both enzymes was approximately two times lower in OA than in RA SF. PLA2 activity was present in all SF with no significant difference between OA and RA SF. IL-1 beta, TNF alpha and IL-6 were found in 0, 96.1 and 84.6% of OA SF, respectively. Mean TNF alpha and IL-6 concentration was also lower in OA than in RA SF. Metalloprotease activity correlated weakly with IL-6 level and enzymatic activities were unrelated with TNF alpha in OA SF.
Joint fluid carboxy-terminal type II procollagen peptide as a marker of cartilage collagen biosynthesis.	Joint fluid levels of carboxy-terminal type II procollagen peptide (pCOL II-C) were measured in osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and traumatic arthritis by a newly developed one-step enzyme immunoassay (EIA). The detection limit of the new method was as low as 0.2 ng/ml. The levels of pCOL II-C were significantly (P < 0.001) higher in osteoarthritis and traumatic arthritis than in rheumatoid arthritis. In osteoarthritis, pCOL II-C levels were higher in moderately afflicted patients. Since type II collagen is a unique component of cartilage, pCOL II-C levels in joint fluids could reflect the synthetic activity of type II collagen of chondrocytes in the diseased joint and therefore could be utilized as a simple marker of type II collagen synthesis in articular cartilage in joint diseases.
Pharmacokinetics of cefoperazone in horses.	The pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of cefoperazone (CPZ) were studied following intravenous (IV) and intramuscular (IM) administration of single doses (30 mg/kg) to horses. Concentrations in serum, urine and synovial fluid samples were measured following IV administration. CPZ concentrations in serum, synovial fluid and spongy bone samples were measured following IM administration. After IV administration a rapid distribution phase (t1/2 (alpha): 4.22 +/- 2.73 min) was followed by a slower elimination phase (t1/2(beta) 0.77 +/- 0.19 h). The apparent volume of distribution was 0.68 +/- 0.10 L/kg. Mean synovial fluid peak concentration was 5.76 +/- 0.74 microgram/mliter. After IM administration a bioavailability of 42.00 +/- 5.33% was obtained. Half-life of absorption was 2.51 +/- 0.72 min and t1/2(beta) was 1.52 +/- 0.15 h. The mean synovial fluid and spongy bone peak concentrations at 2 h after IM administration were 2.91 +/- 0.85 microgram/mliter and 5.56 +/- 0.70 microgram/mliter, respectively.
A method for estimating macromolecular reflection by human synovium, using measurements of intra-articular half lives.	Recent studies show that very large macromolecules in synovial fluid, such as hyaluronan and large proteoglycans, are partially reflected by the synovial lining during fluid drainage, and thus selectively retained within the cavity. Size selective molecular reflection is a fundamental property of membranes, and a method for quantifying the reflective behaviour of human synovium could be of value in several pathophysiological areas. The method proposed here is based on the intra-articular half lives of the macromolecule of interest and of a smaller, easily cleared protein such as albumin. The key relation is derived from the law of conservation of mass, using simple algebra. It is found that, when the intra-articular half lives of albumin and a macromolecular test solute are determined simultaneously, the reflected fraction of the test solute is given by the complement of the half life ratio. Examples are given. Intra-articular half lives can thus be used to consider such questions as whether immune complexes are significantly reflected by the synovial surface, how the reflective property changes in arthritides or with treatment, and how significantly reflection might influence the intra-articular concentration of large "markers" of joint disease activity.
Study of pro-inflammatory (TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, IL-6) and T-cell-derived (IL-2, IL-4) cytokines in plasma and synovial fluid of patients with juvenile chronic arthritis: correlations with clinical and laboratory parameters.	Acute phase proteins, synovial fluid (SF) cellular infiltrates, pro-inflammatory (TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, IL-6) and Th1 (IL-2) and Th2 (IL-4) derived cytokine levels both in plasma and SF were examined in pauciarticular and polyarticular juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) patients during the active (n = 22) and inactive (n = 14) period in order to determine pathogenic mechanisms and correlations between cytokines and laboratory parameters showing disease activity. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and IgG concentrations were found to be significantly elevated in the active period of JCA. In pauciarticular JCA patients, when compared with their peripheral blood lymphocyte subpopulations, SF CD3+ cells (73.1%) and HLA-DR+ active T cells (22.5%) were found to be significantly increased. In the active period of JCA, plasma TNF-alpha and IL-6 concentrations were significantly elevated. Plasma IL-2 and IL-4 levels were not elevated and were found to be similar to those in the inactive phase and in healthy controls. SF IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-1alpha levels were extremely high in all the patients. SF IL-4 and IL-2 levels were all undetectable. There was a significant correlation between ESR values and plasma IL-6 levels and between serum CRP levels and plasma IL-6 and TNF-alpha concentrations. In conclusion, increased local production of pro-inflammatory cytokines appears to account for the articular manifestations of JCA. The impaired production of anti-inflammatory Th2-derived cytokines (IL-4) seems to cause increased production of inflammatory cytokines acting on the balance between them. The deficit in IL-2 production was not suggested to be primarily involved in the pathogenesis. In addition, not only CRP and ESR values, but also plasma IL-6 and TNF-alpha concentrations may be used as markers of disease activity.
Comparative study of tetranectin levels in serum and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, seronegative spondylarthritis and osteoarthritis.	Tetranectin (TN) was assessed in paired synovial fluid (SF) and serum (S) samples from 27 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 23 with seronegative spondylarthritis (SSA) and 22 with osteoarthritis (OA). RA patients had a stronger correlation between serum and SF TN and a higher SF/S TN ratio than did SSA and OA patients. Moreover, the SF/S TN ratio exceeded 1 in most RA patients but not in SSA and OA patients, indicating the possibility of intra-articular TN synthesis in RA. A strong correlation of serum and SF TN with known inflammatory markers was observed in RA. The TN/proteinase inhibitors (PIs: alpha1-antitrypsin, alpha2-macroglobulin) molar ratio in SF was lower in RA and SSA patients to a statistically significant degree than in OA patients. In RA, in contrast to SSA and OA, this ratio correlated positively with the SF interleukin-8 (IL-8), responsible for neutrophil recruitment and degranulation, and negatively with erythrocyte sedimentation rate, serum C-reactive protein and fibrinogen, known markers of disease activity. In conclusion, patients with RA showed lower serum TN levels, a higher SF/S TN ratio and a lower SF TN/PI molar ratio than did SSA and OA patients, suggesting the implication of TN in the impaired regulation of fibrinolysis associated with the inflammatory process.
Reduced levels of testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate in the serum and synovial fluid of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patients correlates with disease severity.	The status of androgen levels and their significance in the pathogenesis of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) has not been fully investigated. In the present study serum and synovial fluid (SF) from 20 JRA patients (grouped as pre-pubertal and pubertal) were analyzed for their content of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulphated conjugate DHEA-S, progesterone and 17 beta-estradiol.
