Symptomatic talonavicular coalition.	Talonavicular coalition is reported as an asymptomatic congenital anomaly of the foot that is noticed incidentally on radiographs of the foot, and is often associated with symphalangism, clinodactyly, ball-and-socket ankle joint, a great toe that is shorter than the second toe, and an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. We describe here three patients with five involved feet. All three patients had chronic foot pain not secondary to trauma, and all five feet required treatment to alleviate the pain.
Treatment of radioulnar synostosis by radical excision and interposition of a radial forearm adipofascial flap.	A patient had radical excision of type II diaphyseal radioulnar synostosis and interposition of a radial forearm adipofascial flap. Neither adjuvant nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications nor radiation therapy were used. Three years after surgery the patient showed 90 degrees of pronation and 90 degrees of supination without any evidence of recurrence.
Cubonavicular synostosis. A case report.	Tarsal coalition is an entity with a great number of reported variants and with many unsolved questions, from its physiopathology to its treatment. Because of its exceedingly low frequency, we report a case of cubonavicular coalition. The symptoms cleared with conventional analgesic therapy, and no other therapeutic measures were required.
Dorsomedial talocalcaneal coalition: a rare condition]	Talocalcaneal coalitions are rare but a posterior facet talocalcaneal coalition is even rarer. There are three different types: fibrous, cartilaginous and osseous coalitions. Besides conventional x-rays computed tomography is essential for assessment of the subtarsal joint. In the absence of concomitant coalitions and foot deformity resection of the coalition is advocated due to good clinical results when there is an adequate size of the talocalcaneal joint (>50%) and without osteoarthrosis. A case of a rare posterior facet talocalcaneal coalition is reported.
Klippel-Feil syndrome: a case report.	To report the clinical presentation and peculiarity of management of Klippel-Feil syndrome (KFS) at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada.
Surgical treatment of talocalcaneal coalition]	To explore the operative method and effectiveness of talocalcaneal coalition.
Clinical significance of congenital fusion of cervical vertebrae: a report of 87 cases]	Based on clinical analysis of 87 cases with congenital fusion of cervical vertebrae, the clinical significance of these lesions was discussed in detail. It was found that the C 2-3 and then the C 3-4 were the sites of frequent involvement. Fusion of 2 to 3 segments was common and showed no clinical signs of abnormality, nor associated with any other malformations. While fusion of multiple segments, though rare, was often associated with other anomalies such as short neck, lowered posterior hair line, webbed neck and malformation of internal organs and other bones. Single lesion does not give rise to symptoms until late when degenerative changes have taken place in the unfused vertebrae in most cases, or following trauma in occasional patients, usually of neurologic upsets. However, fusion at several especially levels, fusion of C 2-3 with occipitalization of atlas predisposes the nerve to damage. In short, remedy is only necessary for cases with symptoms: conservative treatment for those with symptoms caused by radiculopathy, and operation for those with symptoms of myelopathy.
Illusional tarsometatarsal synostosis.	Two cases are reviewed which presented findings strongly suggesting congenital synostosis between the third metatarsal and third cuneiform bones. Supplementary x-ray films proved these joints to be present and intact. This point, though well known to skeletal radiologists, is worthy of emphasis to nonskeletal radiologists and other physicians.
Bilateral congenital radio-ulnar synostosis with hyperpronation--findings and surgical therapy]	Congenital proximal synostoses of the ulna and radius do not require surgery in most of the cases, since the proximal synostosis can be sufficiently compensated by the wrist joint. In cases of considerable functional deficit, the synostosis has to be separated to enable re-ossification in a more advantageous position. We report on a patient with bilateral synostosis and a significant functional deficit due to the grotesque hyperpronation of the forearms. Following operative longitudinal separation and redressive casts, a good correction was obtained. X-ray imaging in lateral view documented the improved forearm position.
