Distinct vascular patterns of early synovitis in psoriatic, reactive, and rheumatoid arthritis.	To examine the macroscopic vascular pattern of early synovitis in psoriatic arthritis (PsA), reactive arthritis (ReA), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and to assess the reliability of the grading features for synovitis.
Infiltration of the synovial membrane with macrophage subsets and polymorphonuclear cells reflects global disease activity in spondyloarthropathy.	Considering the relation between synovial inflammation and global disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and the distinct but heterogeneous histology of spondyloarthropathy (SpA) synovitis, the present study analyzed whether histopathological features of synovium reflect specific phenotypes and/or global disease activity in SpA. Synovial biopsies obtained from 99 SpA and 86 RA patients with active knee synovitis were analyzed for 15 histological and immunohistochemical markers. Correlations with swollen joint count, serum C-reactive protein concentrations, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were analyzed using classical and multiparameter statistics. SpA synovitis was characterized by higher vascularity and infiltration with CD163+ macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and by lower values for lining-layer hyperplasia, lymphoid aggregates, CD1a+ cells, intracellular citrullinated proteins, and MHC-HC gp39 complexes than RA synovitis. Unsupervised clustering of the SpA samples based on synovial features identified two separate clusters that both contained different SpA subtypes but were significantly differentiated by concentration of C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Global disease activity in SpA correlated significantly with lining-layer hyperplasia as well as with inflammatory infiltration with macrophages, especially the CD163+ subset, and with PMNs. Accordingly, supervised clustering using these synovial parameters identified a cluster of 20 SpA patients with significantly higher disease activity, and this finding was confirmed in an independent SpA cohort. However, multiparameter models based on synovial histopathology were relatively poor predictors of disease activity in individual patients. In conclusion, these data indicate that inflammatory infiltration of the synovium with CD163+ macrophages and PMNs as well as lining-layer hyperplasia reflect global disease activity in SpA, independently of the SpA subtype. These data support a prominent role for innate immune cells in SpA synovitis and warrant further evaluation of synovial histopathology as a surrogate marker in early-phase therapeutic trials in SpA.
Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and Jaccoud's arthropathy: a clinical subset with an increased C reactive protein response?	Jaccoud's arthropathy is a chronic deforming synovitis occurring in a subset of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). To evaluate whether patients with SLE and Jaccoud's arthropathy behave differently in their acute phase reaction from patients with SLE without Jaccoud's arthropathy, a prospective study was carried out on 72 consecutive patients with SLE. Patients were assessed for Jaccoud's arthropathy according to a protocol, disease activity was scored, and laboratory tests, including tests for C reactive protein, were performed. Seven patients were classified as having definite Jaccoud's arthropathy. In those patients the serum concentrations of C reactive protein were higher than in those without Jaccoud's arthropathy, whereas disease activity scores and treatment were comparable. Additionally, patients with Jaccoud's arthropathy had a longer disease duration and a longer history of arthritis than those without, whereas IgM rheumatoid factor was observed more often. The increased concentration of C reactive protein in patients with Jaccoud's arthropathy is compatible with a persistent inflammatory reaction. Serial testing of C reactive protein in combination with other laboratory parameters may be a guideline for treatment in patients with SLE and Jaccoud's arthropathy.
Primary Sjogren's syndrome as a multi-organ disease: impact of the serological profile on the clinical presentation of the disease in a large cohort of Italian patients.	The aims of this study were to describe the clinical presentation of primary SS (pSS) in a large cohort of patients by assessing the prevalence of the patient subgroups at high risk for severe extraglandular manifestations and to explore the influence of the patients' serological profile on disease severity and on immunosuppressive drug utilization.
Is radiosynovectomy (RS) effective for joints damaged by haemophilia with articular degeneration in simple radiography (ADSR)?	Radiosynovectomy (RS) is known to be effective in the treatment of chronic haemophiliac synovitis. Its effectiveness may, however, be different when the joint treated shows articular degeneration in simple radiography (ADSR).
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate in orthopaedic patients.	The ESR, a sensitive measure of the inflammatory response, is elevated in 90% of patients who have serious orthopedic infections, e.g., discitis, septic arthritis, and hematogenous osteomyelitis. In most cases, it is sufficient to distinguish these entities from the less serious disease states, i.e., transient synovitis. After major surgical operations or extensive trauma, the ESR often increases to high levels and, if sepsis does not supervene, it returns to normal within six months. Outpatient determination of the ESR, although useless in the early detection of malignancy, is valuable in detecting inflammatory arthridities and major sepsis.
