Additional case of Tsukahara's syndrome or new syndrome: further delineation of the association of microcephaly and radio-ulnar synostosis.	In 1994, Giuffré et al. reported two unrelated families in which some of the members had microcephaly and radio-ulnar synostosis, suggesting a new condition. Since this first report, Tsukahara et al. and Udler et al. described two distinct patients with a different condition characterized by radio-ulnar synostosis, short stature, microcephaly, scoliosis, and mental retardation. Here we report on a new case of microcephaly and radio-ulnar synostosis and discuss the possible relationship between Tsukahara's syndrome and the phenotype described by Giuffré et al.
Sensorineural deafness, abnormal genitalia, synostosis of metacarpals and metatarsals 4 and 5, and mental retardation: description of a second patient and exclusion of HOXD13.	In 1988 Pfeiffer and Kapferer reported on a patient with sensorineural deafness, psychomotor delay, hypospadias, cerebral manifestations, and bilateral synostosis of the 4th and 5th metacarpals and metatarsals. Synostosis of the 4th and 5th metacarpals and metatarsals is a very rare defect that has been described as an isolated Mendelian defect, as part of multiple congenital anomaly (MCA) patterns, and in different syndromes. Among a total of 2,023,155 liveborn infants in the Spanish Collaborative Study of Congenital Malformations (ECEMC), we observed only two cases with this type of metacarpal fusion, for a frequency of 1/1,011,577. One had the isolated defect, and the other one that we are describing here, had an MCA pattern similar to that described by Pfeiffer and Kapferer [1988]. We tested HOXD13 but did not find any mutations in exons and intron-exon boundaries. To our knowledge this case is the second one reported with this syndrome.
Involvement of the basilar coronal ring in unilateral coronal synostosis.	Unilateral coronal synostosis denotes one-sided premature fusion of the frontoparietal suture. However, this is only one component of the coronal hemi-ring that includes the contiguous frontoparietal, frontosphenoidal, and frontoethmoidal sutures. Possible fusion of the basilar sutures in unilateral coronal synostosis is poorly documented.
Surgical induction of metacarpal synostosis for treatment of ectrodactyly in a dog.	Ectrodactyly is a rare developmental anomaly of the distal part of the forelimb. It is characterized by the presence of an abnormal longitudinal soft tissue and osseous separation or cleft between the digits and the metacarpal bones. It can be associated with hypoplasia, aplasia and malformation of one or more bones of the antebrachium, carpus, metacarpus and digits. Unilateral ectrodactyly and moderate lameness were diagnosed in a young female dog. The dog was treated surgically with reconstruction of soft tissues and stabilization of the metacarpal bones by two nylon cerclage sutures. After three years a mild residual lameness was present. Radiographic signs of synostosis between the metacarpal bones II, III and IV with presence of a cleft between carpal bones II and III were observed.
Skeletal dysplasia syndrome with progeroid appearance, characteristic facial and limb anomalies, multiple synostoses, and distinct skeletal changes: a variant example of the Lenz-Majewski syndrome.	Here we report a 10 year-old mentally retarded, deaf boy with a unique pattern of anomalies: progeroid appearance, characteristic facial and limb anomalies, multiple synostoses, and distinct skeletal changes. He represents a variant example of "hyperostotic dwarfism" as delineated by Lenz and Majewski.
