Common and distinct roles for the binding partners Rabenosyn-5 and Vps45 in the regulation of endocytic trafficking in mammalian cells.	In several invertebrate organisms, the Sec1p/Munc18-like protein Vps45 interacts with the divalent Rab4/Rab5 effector, Rabenosyn-5 and carries out multiple functions in the endocytic/secretory pathways. In mammalian cells, Vps45 and Rabenosyn-5 also interact, but the molecular characterization of this binding, and the functional relationship between these two proteins has not been well defined. Here we identify a novel sequence within Rabenosyn-5 required for its interaction with Vps45. We demonstrate that hVps45-depletion decreases expression of Rabenosyn-5, likely resulting from Rabenosyn-5 degradation through the proteasomal pathway. Furthermore, we demonstrate that similar to Rabenosyn-5-depletion, hVps45-depletion causes impaired recycling of beta1 integrins, and a subsequent delay in human fibroblast cell migration on fibronectin-coated plates. Moreover, beta1 integrin recycling could be rescued by reintroduction of siRNA-resistant wild-type Rabenosyn-5, but not a mutant deficient in Vps45 binding. However, unlike Rabenosyn-5-depletion, which induces Golgi fragmentation and decreased recruitment of sorting nexin retromer subunits to the Golgi, hVps45-depletion induces Golgi condensation and accumulation of retromer subunits in the vicinity of the Golgi. In part, these phenomena could be attributed to reduced Syntaxin16 expression and altered localization of both Syntaxin16 and Syntaxin6 upon Vps45-depletion. Overall, these findings implicate hVps45 and Rabenosyn-5 in post early endosome transport, and we propose that their interaction serves as a nexus to promote bidirectional transport along the endosome-to-recycling compartment and endosome-to-Golgi axes.
Partial sleep restriction activates immune response-related gene expression pathways: experimental and epidemiological studies in humans.	Epidemiological studies have shown that short or insufficient sleep is associated with increased risk for metabolic diseases and mortality. To elucidate mechanisms behind this connection, we aimed to identify genes and pathways affected by experimentally induced, partial sleep restriction and to verify their connection to insufficient sleep at population level. The experimental design simulated sleep restriction during a working week: sleep of healthy men (N = 9) was restricted to 4 h/night for five nights. The control subjects (N = 4) spent 8 h/night in bed. Leukocyte RNA expression was analyzed at baseline, after sleep restriction, and after recovery using whole genome microarrays complemented with pathway and transcription factor analysis. Expression levels of the ten most up-regulated and ten most down-regulated transcripts were correlated with subjective assessment of insufficient sleep in a population cohort (N = 472). Experimental sleep restriction altered the expression of 117 genes. Eight of the 25 most up-regulated transcripts were related to immune function. Accordingly, fifteen of the 25 most up-regulated Gene Ontology pathways were also related to immune function, including those for B cell activation, interleukin 8 production, and NF-κB signaling (P<0.005). Of the ten most up-regulated genes, expression of STX16 correlated negatively with self-reported insufficient sleep in a population sample, while three other genes showed tendency for positive correlation. Of the ten most down-regulated genes, TBX21 and LGR6 correlated negatively and TGFBR3 positively with insufficient sleep. Partial sleep restriction affects the regulation of signaling pathways related to the immune system. Some of these changes appear to be long-lasting and may at least partly explain how prolonged sleep restriction can contribute to inflammation-associated pathological states, such as cardiometabolic diseases.
