Prenatal syphilis infection is a possible cause of preterm delivery among immigrant women from eastern Europe.	to evaluate the prevalence of maternal syphilis at delivery and neonatal syphilis infection in an Italian urban area, in connection with the increased flow of immigration.
Newborn infant of drug-addicted mother: maternal, perinatal, neonatal aspects, and neonatal abstinence syndrome]	Maternal drug addiction has increased in an alarming way over the last ten years. Therefore, the withdrawal syndrome in the newborn has also increased. 53% of the newborns (of chemical dependent mother) studied from 1985 to 1989 in HCP have presented this syndrome. We have analysed: perinatal, neonatal and maternal factors, and their clinical features and treatment: There is a great incidence of perinatal asphyxia, acidosis, premature rupture of the fetal membranes, etc. The newborns are usually premature or of low birth weight for their gestational age. They present diverse pathology: syphilis, HBsAg +, HIV +, gonorrhea, congenital malformations, etc. The mothers are often prostitutes, belong to a low socioeconomic status, have had previous abortions and have had no control of the actual pregnancy, etc. The syndrome of abstinence presents with: jitteriness, sweating, high-pitched or continuous crying, vomits, diarrhea, and even seizures. The neurological and digestive manifestations are the most difficult to treat. The treatment consists of general measures (little stimulation dim light, etc.), phenobarbital, and chlorpromazine.
Ocular manifestations of endemic syphilis (bejel).	Bejel or nonvenereal syphilis is a treponemal infection that is still endemic in many parts of the world including Saudi Arabia. The authors have examined 17 patients with clinical findings consistent with bejel. All patients had positive serologic tests for bejel. There were 11 male and six female patients, with a mean age of 54 years (range, 37-73 years). Results of clinical examination showed uveitis in nine patients, optic atrophy in six, and chorioretinitis scars in six. In four patients who needed intraocular surgery, two aqueous specimens showed positive antibodies for Treponema pallidum.
