Preoperative MRI analysis of patients with idiopathic scoliosis: a prospective study.	A prospective trial of preoperative MRI study in patients with "idiopathic" scoliosis.
Prospective analysis of self-perceived quality of life before and after posterior fossa decompression in 112 patients with Chiari malformation with or without syringomyelia.	The purpose of this prospective study was to determine if there was a difference in the self-perceived quality of life (QOL) before and after surgery among patients with Chiari I malformations with or without syringomyelia. Most patients with Chiari I malformations report improvement in their QOL after decompression surgery; however, specific outcome data have not been empirically studied in this patient population.
Assessment of objective pulsatile tinnitus in a patient with syringohydromyelia.	We examined a 38-year-old male with syringohydromyelia and concomitant symptoms suggestive of intracranial hypertension including unilateral low-frequency sensorineural hearing loss and objective pulsatile tinnitus. The tinnitus was heard by the authors (through a hearing aid stethoscope tube), measured objectively (with a probe microphone), measured subjectively (as minimum masking levels and with fixed frequency Bekesy), and altered by changes in ear canal pressure (subjectively reported and measured objectively with a probe microphone). The audiologic symptoms were likely associated with elevated cerebrospinal fluid pressure that traveled to the cochlea through the cochlear aqueduct. The tinnitus may have originated from pulsations of central vascular structures that traveled through the cochlear aqueduct or the endolymphatic duct. Hearing loss likely resulted from tinnitus masking or a stiffening of the cochlear partition or stapes footplate.
Asymmetry of tonsillar ectopia, syringomyelia and clinical manifestations in adult Chiari I malformation.	The asymmetry of tonsillar ectopia, syringomyelia, and clinical manifestations, and their correlations in adult Chiari I malformation (CIM) are seldom discussed.
Birth injury as a causative factor of syringomyelia with Chiari type I deformity.	The epidemiology of syringomyelia with Chiari type I deformity was investigated with particular reference to perinatal problems. All subjects in our study were born by vaginal delivery and had a high incidence of perinatal accidents (abnormal presentations, birth injuries, and neonatal asphyxia). This study suggests that these may be strong causative factors for syringomyelia associated with Chiari type I deformity.
