The role of chordin/Bmp signals in mammalian pharyngeal development and DiGeorge syndrome.	The chordin/Bmp system provides one of the best examples of extracellular signaling regulation in animal development. We present the phenotype produced by the targeted inactivation of the chordin gene in mouse. Chordin homozygous mutant mice show, at low penetrance, early lethality and a ventralized gastrulation phenotype. The mutant embryos that survive die perinatally, displaying an extensive array of malformations that encompass most features of DiGeorge and Velo-Cardio-Facial syndromes in humans. Chordin secreted by the mesendoderm is required for the correct expression of Tbx1 and other transcription factors involved in the development of the pharyngeal region. The chordin mutation provides a mouse model for head and neck congenital malformations that frequently occur in humans and suggests that chordin/Bmp signaling may participate in their pathogenesis.
A role for Tbx5 in proepicardial cell migration during cardiogenesis.	Transcriptional regulatory cascades during epicardial and coronary vascular development from proepicardial progenitor cells remain to be defined. We have used immunohistochemistry of human embryonic tissues to demonstrate that the TBX5 transcription factor is expressed not only in the myocardium, but also throughout the embryonic epicardium and coronary vasculature. TBX5 is not expressed in other human fetal vascular beds. Furthermore, immunohistochemical analyses of human embryonic tissues reveals that unlike their epicardial counterparts, delaminating epicardial-derived cells do not express TBX5 as they migrate through the subepicardium before undergoing epithelial-mesenchymal transformation required for coronary vasculogenesis. In the chick, Tbx5 is expressed in the embryonic proepicardial organ (PEO), which is composed of the epicardial and coronary vascular progenitor cells. Retrovirus-mediated overexpression of human TBX5 inhibits cell incorporation of infected proepicardial cells into the nascent chick epicardium and coronary vasculature. TBX5 overexpression as well as antisense-mediated knockdown of chick Tbx5 produce a cell-autonomous defect in the PEO that prevents proepicardial cell migration. Thus, both increasing and decreasing Tbx5 dosage impairs development of the proepicardium. Culture of explanted PEOs demonstrates that untreated chick proepicardial cells downregulate Tbx5 expression during cell migration. Therefore, we propose that Tbx5 participates in regulation of proepicardial cell migration, a critical event in the establishment of the epicardium and coronary vasculature.
Pax6, Tbr2, and Tbr1 are expressed sequentially by radial glia, intermediate progenitor cells, and postmitotic neurons in developing neocortex.	The developing neocortex contains two types of progenitor cells for glutamatergic, pyramidal-projection neurons. The first type, radial glia, produce neurons and glia, divide at the ventricular surface, and express Pax6, a homeodomain transcription factor. The second type, intermediate progenitor cells, are derived from radial glia, produce only neurons, and divide away from the ventricular surface. Here we show that the transition from radial glia to intermediate progenitor cell is associated with upregulation of Tbr2, a T-domain transcription factor, and downregulation of Pax6. Accordingly, Tbr2 expression in progenitor compartments (the subventricular zone and ventricular zone) rises and falls with cortical plate neurogenesis. The subsequent transition from intermediate progenitor cell to postmitotic neuron is marked by downregulation of Tbr2 and upregulation of Tbr1, another T-domain transcription factor. These findings delineate the transcription factor sequence Pax6 --> Tbr2 --> Tbr1 in the differentiation of radial glia --> intermediate progenitor cell --> postmitotic projection neuron. This transcription factor sequence is modified in preplate neurons, in which Tbr2 is transiently coexpressed with Tbr1, and in the direct differentiation pathway from radial glia --> postmitotic projection neuron, in which Tbr2 is expressed briefly or not at all.
The T-box transcription factor Tbx15 is required for skeletal development.	During early limb development several signaling centers coordinate limb bud outgrowth as well as patterning. Members of the T-box gene family of transcriptional regulators are crucial players in these processes by activating and interpreting these signaling pathways. Here, we show that Tbx15, a member of this gene family, is expressed during limb development, first in the mesenchyme of the early limb bud, then during early endochondral bone development in prehypertrophic chondrocytes of cartilaginous templates. Expression is also found in mesenchymal precursor cells and prehypertrophic chondrocytes, respectively, during development of skeletal elements of the vertebral column and the head. Analysis of Tbx15 null mutant mice indicates a role of Tbx15 in the development of skeletal elements throughout the body. Mutants display a general reduction of bone size and changes of bone shape. In the forelimb skeleton, the scapula lacks the central region of the blade. Cartilaginous templates are already reduced in size and show a transient delay in ossification in mutant embryos. Mutants show a significantly reduced proliferation of prehypertrophic chondrocytes as well as of mesenchymal precursor cells. These data suggest that Tbx15 plays an important role in the development of the skeleton of the limb, vertebral column and head by controlling the number of mesenchymal precursor cells and chondrocytes.
Expression of T-bet, a type 1 T-helper cell transcription factor, in the urinary sediment of lupus patients predicts disease flare.	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is characterized by the aberrant activation of T-lymphocytes. Since T-bet is the principal transcription factor for the differentiation of type-1 helper T-lymphocyte, we study the impact of urinary T-bet mRNA expression in clinically quiescent SLE patients on the risk of subsequent disease flare.
IL-12-induced T-bet expression and IFNgamma release in lymphocytes from asthmatics--role of MAPkinases ERK-1/-2, p38(MAPK) and effect of dexamethasone.	The transcription factor T-box-expressed-in-T-cells (T-bet) is required for T(H)1 lymphocyte differentiation, regulates the IL-12-induced expression of the T(H)1-specific cytokine IFNgamma and may be dysregulated in asthmatics. The modulatory role of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-1/-2, p38mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and dexamethasone on IL-12 induced T-bet and IFNgamma expression was assessed in peripheral blood lymphocytes of 10 atopic asthmatics and 10 nonatopic normals. IFNgamma production was dependent on phosphorylation of ERK-1/-2 and p38MAPK, as examined by PD098059, an inhibitor of the upstream activator of MAPKkinase (MKK-1), and SB203580, an inhibitor of p38MAPK. The inhibitory effect of PD098059 on IFNgamma release was decreased in asthmatic T-cells compared with normals. The IL-12-induced T-bet expression and the inhibitory effect of SB203580 were increased in asthmatic T-cells compared with normals. Dexamethasone blocked the IL-12-induced T-bet expression in asthmatic T-cells completely and decreased IL-12-induced IFNgamma release by approximately 50%, which occurred to the same extent in asthmatic and normal T-cells. In conclusion, (1) p38MAPK-pathway rather than ERK-pathway may play a more basic role in the regulation of the increased T-bet expression in asthma, and (2) ERK- and p38MAPK-activation modulate IFNgamma expression independently of T-bet and this regulatory role of ERK-1/-2 on IFNgamma release is impaired in asthma. The therapeutic benefit of dexamethasone on T-bet and IFNgamma production seems to be critical.
Study on the expression of transcription factor GATA-3 and T-bet mRNA in decidua of women with unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion]	To investigate the roles of transcription factor GATA-3 and T-bet at the fetal-maternal interface in the pathogenesis of unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA).
The dynamic changes of T-bet(+)/GATA-3(+) and RORgammat(+)/FOXP3(+) cells in recipient spleens and grafts after rat orthotopic liver transplantation.	Rejection of transplanted liver occurs when the host generates alloantigen-reactive T cells, and CD4(+) T-cell subsets, including Th1, Th2, T17 and iTreg, could be involved in changing the dynamics of graft rejection onset. In the current immunosuppressive strategies, rejection is treated as an undifferentiated process that is uniform, which results in the failure of tolerance induction. Here, we established a rejection model to observe the reciprocal interaction of CD4(+) T-cell subsets in the complex networks of the immune system.
The mTOR kinase determines effector versus memory CD8+ T cell fate by regulating the expression of transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin.	The mechanisms underpinning integration of instructions that program naive CD8+ T cells for effector and/or memory differentiation are not well understood. Herein, we demonstrate that interleukin-12 (IL-12) enhanced and sustained antigen and costimulatory molecule (B7.1)-induced mTOR kinase activity in naive CD8+ (OT-I) T cells via phosphoinositide 3-kinase and STAT4 transcription factor pathways. Blocking mTOR activity by rapamycin reversed IL-12-induced effector functions because of loss of persistent expression of the transcription factor T-bet. Rapamycin treatment of IL-12-conditioned OT-I cells promoted persistent Eomesodermin expression and produced memory cell precursors that demonstrated enhanced sustenance and antigen-recall responses upon adoptive transfer. The memory cell precursors showed greater tumor efficacy than IL-12-conditioned effector OT-I cells. These results identify mTOR as the central regulator of transcriptional programs that determine effector and/or memory cell fates in CD8+ T cells. Targeting mTOR activity offers new opportunities to regulate CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity.
ΔNp63 transcriptionally regulates brachyury, a gene with diverse roles in limb development, tumorigenesis and metastasis.	The phenotypes of the p63 mutant mice are complex and diverse. The p63-/- mice develop severe defects in morphogenesis of ectodermal appendages, and p63+/- mice are tumor prone. Transcriptional targets of p63 with functions in both of these biological processes likely exist. Here, we identified one such direct transcriptional target of p63, brachyury, a gene with diverse roles in limb development and tumorigenesis. We found that brachyury is not expressed in developing p63-/- mouse embryos, and that in osteosarcomas, ΔNp63 and brachyury are expressed at high levels. Knock down of ΔNp63 in tumor cells resulted in a concomitant diminution of brachyury, cell proliferation, migration and invasion. These data provide evidence that suppression of ΔNp63 in tumors may lead to tumor regression through loss of cell proliferative and metastatic potential.
Glucosamine improved atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice by inhibition of Th2 cell development.	Dysregulated Th subset responses, characterized by Th2-dominant allergic inflammation, are thought to be central to the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). Glucosamine has been shown to have immunosuppressive properties, but its effect on AD has not been examined. In this study, the immunoregulatory effects of glucosamine, using dermatophagoides farinae (Df)-induced AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice, were investigated. The clinical scores were reduced significantly by the treatment with glucosamine at 10 and 20 mg/day. Histological analysis of the skin also revealed that treatment of glucosamine at 10 and 20 mg/day significantly reduced the inflammatory cellular infiltrate, including mast cells and eosinophils. The levels of serum IgE and Th2 cytokines in spleen cells were reduced, whereas no significant change was detected in IFN-γ, a Th1 cytokine. To determine the mechanism associated with inhibition of the Th2 immune response, the effects of glucosamine on the selective differentiation pathway of the Th subset in vitro was examined in NC/Nga mice. The results showed that glucosamine suppressed the differentiation of naïve CD4(+) T cells to Th2 cells in vitro. On the basis of in vivo and in vitro results of the NC/Nga mice, the immunobiological effects of glucosamine on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with AD were examined. The production of Th2 cytokines, such as IL-4 and IL-5, was significantly decreased after in vitro administration of glucosamine, which suggest that glucosamine might be a useful immunomodulatory agent for the treatment of human AD.
Intracellular free zinc up-regulates IFN-γ and T-bet essential for Th1 differentiation in Con-A stimulated HUT-78 cells.	Zinc deficiency impairs cellular immunity. Up-regulation of mRNA levels of IFN-γ, IL-12Rβ2, and T-bet are essential for Th(1) differentiation. We hypothesized that zinc increases Th(1) differentiation via up-regulation of IFN-γ and T-bet expression. To test this hypothesis, we used zinc-deficient and zinc-sufficient HUT-78 cells (a Th(0) cell line) under different condition of stimulation in this study. We also used TPEN, a zinc-specific chelator, to decrease the bioavailability of zinc in the cells. We measured intracellular free zinc, cytokines, and the mRNAs of T-bet, IFN-γ, and IL-12Rβ2. In this study, we show that in zinc-sufficient HUT-78 cells, mRNA levels of IFN-γ, IL-12Rβ2, and T-bet in PMA/PHA-stimulated cells were increased in comparison to zinc-deficient cells. Although intracellular free zinc was increased slightly in PMA/PHA-stimulated cells, Con-A-stimulated cells in 5μM zinc medium showed a greater sustained increase in intracellular free zinc in comparison to cells incubated in 1μM zinc. The cells pre-incubated with TPEN showed decreased mRNA levels of IFN-γ and T-bet mRNAs in comparison to cells without TPEN incubation. We conclude that stimulation of cells by Con-A via TCR, release intracellular free zinc which functions as a signal molecule for generation of IFN-γ and T-bet, and IL-12Rβ2 mRNAs required for Th(1) cell differentiation. These results suggest that zinc increase Th(1) cell differentiation by up-regulation of IFN-γ and T-bet, and IL-12Rbβ2 mRNAs.
Eomesodermin, HAND1, and CSH1 proteins are induced by cellular stress in a stress-activated protein kinase-dependent manner.	Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a transcription factor essential for trophoblast development. Stress stimuli activate stress-activated protein kinase (MAPK8/9) and modulate transcription factors in trophoblast stem cells (TSC). In this study, we test the hypothesis that stress-induced Eomes upregulation and downstream trophoblast development are MAPK8/9-dependent. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot assays suggest that Eomes is induced by hyperosmolar stress in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Two MAPK8/9 inhibitors that work by different mechanisms, LJNKl1 and SP600125, block induction of Eomes protein by stress. During normal TSC differentiation, the transcription factor heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 1 (HAND1) is dependent on Eomes, and chorionic somatomammotropin hormone 1 (CSH1) expression is dependent on HAND1. Similar to Eomes, HAND1 and CSH1 induction by stress are MAPK8/9-dependent, and CSH1 is induced in nearly all stressed TSC. CSH1 induction normally requires downregulation of the transcription factor inhibitor of differentiation 2 (ID2) as well as HAND1 upregulation. It was shown previously that hyperosmolar stress induces AMP-activated protein kinase (PRKAA1/2)-dependent ID2 loss in a MAPK8/9-independent manner. Inhibition of PRKAA1/2 with compound C and LJNKl1, more than MAPK8/9 inhibitors alone, inhibits the induction of CSH1 by stress. Taken together these data suggest that stress-induced MAPK8/9 and PRKAA1/2 regulate transcription factors Eomes/HAND1 and ID2, respectively. Together this network mediates induction of CSH1 by stress. Therefore, stress triggers a proportional increase in a normal early TSC differentiation event that could be adaptive in inducing CSH1. But the flexibility of TSC to undergo stress-induced differentiation could lead to pathophysiological consequences if stress endured and TSC differentiation became unbalanced.
Gammaherpesvirus latency accentuates EAE pathogenesis: relevance to Epstein-Barr virus and multiple sclerosis.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been identified as a putative environmental trigger of multiple sclerosis (MS), yet EBV's role in MS remains elusive. We utilized murine gamma herpesvirus 68 (γHV-68), the murine homolog to EBV, to examine how infection by a virus like EBV could enhance CNS autoimmunity. Mice latently infected with γHV-68 developed more severe EAE including heightened paralysis and mortality. Similar to MS, γHV-68EAE mice developed lesions composed of CD4 and CD8 T cells, macrophages and loss of myelin in the brain and spinal cord. Further, T cells from the CNS of γHV-68 EAE mice were primarily Th1, producing heightened levels of IFN-γ and T-bet accompanied by IL-17 suppression, whereas a Th17 response was observed in uninfected EAE mice. Clearly, γHV-68 latency polarizes the adaptive immune response, directs a heightened CNS pathology following EAE induction reminiscent of human MS and portrays a novel mechanism by which EBV likely influences MS and other autoimmune diseases.
Simultaneous coexpression of memory-related and effector-related genes by individual human CD8 T cells depends on antigen specificity and differentiation.	Phenotypic and functional cell properties are usually analyzed at the level of defined cell populations but not single cells. Yet, large differences between individual cells may have important functional consequences. It is likely that T-cell-mediated immunity depends on the polyfunctionality of individual T cells, rather than the sum of functions of responding T-cell subpopulations. We performed highly sensitive single-cell gene expression profiling, allowing the direct ex vivo characterization of individual virus-specific and tumor-specific T cells from healthy donors and melanoma patients. We have previously shown that vaccination with the natural tumor peptide Melan-A-induced T cells with superior effector functions as compared with vaccination with the analog peptide optimized for enhanced HLA-A*0201 binding. Here we found that natural peptide vaccination induced tumor-reactive CD8 T cells with frequent coexpression of both memory/homing-associated genes (CD27, IL7R, EOMES, CXCR3, and CCR5) and effector-related genes (IFNG, KLRD1, PRF1, and GZMB), comparable with protective Epstein-Barr virus-specific and cytomegalovirus-specific T cells. In contrast, memory/homing-associated and effector-associated genes were less frequently coexpressed after vaccination with the analog peptide. Remarkably, these findings reveal a previously unknown level of gene expression diversity among vaccine-specific and virus-specific T cells with the simultaneous coexpression of multiple memory/homing-related and effector-related genes by the same cell. Such broad functional gene expression signatures within antigen-specific T cells may be critical for mounting efficient responses to pathogens or tumors. In summary, direct ex vivo high-resolution molecular characterization of individual T cells provides key insights into the processes shaping the functional properties of tumor-specific and virus-specific T cells.
Notch signaling regulates T cell accumulation and function in the central nervous system during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	Systemic inhibition of Notch signaling was previously shown to attenuate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a disease model of multiple sclerosis in mice. Different studies attributed these effects to decreased T-bet and IFN-γ expression, enhanced regulatory T cell function, reduced T cell chemotaxis to the CNS, or impaired Th9 cell differentiation. Interpretation of these heterogeneous findings is difficult because past experimental strategies did not ensure complete Notch inhibition in T cells and because many cell populations could be affected by systemic Notch blockade. To resolve the role of Notch in T cells during EAE, we used the pan-Notch inhibitor dominant-negative form of Mastermind-like 1 (DNMAML), as well as several complementary loss-of-function approaches specifically in myelin-reactive T cells. Notch inhibition in T cells profoundly decreased EAE incidence and severity. Notch-deprived myelin-reactive T cells had preserved activation and effector differentiation in secondary lymphoid tissues. However, Notch-deprived T cells failed to accumulate in the CNS after immunization. Parking wild-type and DNMAML T cells together in bone marrow chimeras increased accumulation of Notch-deprived T cells in the CNS after immunization but did not prevent EAE, indicating the absence of dominant suppression by DNMAML T cells. Analysis of CNS-infiltrating DNMAML T cells revealed markedly defective IL-17A and IFN-γ production, despite preserved T-bet expression. Collectively, our findings capture the profound overall effects of Notch signaling in myelin-reactive T cells and demonstrate that Notch controls the accumulation and pathogenic functions of CD4(+) T cells within their target organ but not in lymphoid tissues during EAE. 
Coadministration of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid and immunostimulatory complexes modifies antigen processing in dendritic cell subsets and enhances HIV gag-specific T cell immunity.	Currently approved adjuvants induce protective Ab responses but are more limited for generating cellular immunity. In this study, we assessed the effect of combining two adjuvants with distinct mechanisms of action on their ability to prime T cells: the TLR3 ligand, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C), and immunostimulatory complexes (ISCOMs). Each adjuvant was administered alone or together with HIV Gag protein (Gag), and the magnitude, quality, and phenotype of Gag-specific T cell responses were assessed. For CD8 T cells, all adjuvants induced a comparable response magnitude, but combining poly I:C with ISCOMs induced a high frequency of CD127(+), IL-2-producing cells with decreased expression of Tbet compared with either adjuvant alone. For CD4 T cells, combining poly I:C and ISCOMs increased the frequency of multifunctional cells, producing IFN-γ, IL-2, and TNF, and the total magnitude of the response compared with either adjuvant alone. CD8 or CD4 T cell responses induced by both adjuvants mediated protection against Gag-expressing Listeria monocytogenes or vaccinia viral infections. Poly I:C and ISCOMs can alter Ag uptake and/or processing, and we therefore used fluorescently labeled HIV Gag and DQ-OVA to assess these mechanisms, respectively, in multiple dendritic cell subsets. Poly I:C promoted uptake and retention of Ag, whereas ISCOMs enhanced Ag degradation. Combining poly I:C and ISCOMs caused substantial death of dendritic cells but persistence of degraded Ag. These data illustrate how combining adjuvants, such as poly I:C and ISCOMs, that modulate Ag processing and have potent innate activity, can enhance the magnitude, quality, and phenotype of T cell immunity. 
Increased level of E protein activity during invariant NKT development promotes differentiation of invariant NKT2 and invariant NKT17 subsets.	E protein transcription factors and their natural inhibitors, Id proteins, play critical and complex roles during lymphoid development. In this article, we report that partial maintenance of E protein activity during positive selection results in a change in the cell fate determination of developing iNKT cells, with a block in the development of iNKT1 cells and a parallel increase in the iNKT2 and iNKT17 subsets. Because the expression levels of the transcription factors that drive these alternative functional fates (GATA-3, RORγT, T-bet, and Runx-3) are not altered, our results suggest that E protein activity controls a novel checkpoint that regulates the number of iNKT precursors that choose each fate. 
