Granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor produced by cloned L3T4a+, class II-restricted T cells induces HT-2 cells to proliferate.	Cloned L3T4a+ antigen-specific, class II-restricted T cells can be subdivided by function and by cytokine production. All cloned T cell lines produce T cell growth factors that can be distinguished by the ability of monoclonal antibodies to inhibit the proliferation of cytokine-dependent T cell lines induced by these T cell growth factors. From these types of analyses, it has been shown that all cloned T cells that help hapten-specific B cells secrete immunoglobulin, produce interleukin 4 (IL 4). Those cloned T cells that fail to help for anti-hapten responses produce neither IL 4 nor interleukin 2 (IL 2), yet release an activity that induces the proliferation of the cytokine-dependent T cell line, HT-2. Additional analysis of the HT-2 stimulating activity has shown that it is indistinguishable from granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)--this activity being produced by all cloned T cells tested. Thus GM-CSF is a product of all cloned L3T4a+ T cell lines tested thus far, and can serve as a T cell growth factor for HT-2, as well as a co-factor for in vivo derived T cells.
Induction of IgG2a secretion from mIgG2a+ B-lymphoid tumor cells by BCDF present in several antigen-specific T-helper clones.	In order to study the soluble factor(s) that play an important role for the differentiation of IgG2-secreting B cells, we examined whether membrane IgG2a (mIgG2a)-bearing BALB/c B-lymphoid tumor cells, A20, could be induced to secrete IgG2a after treatment with soluble factors. We detected a potent B-cell differentiation activity inducing the Ig secretion of A20 tumor cells (BCDF-A20) in supernatants of several soluble antigens as well as alloantigen-specific T-cell clones of various genetic backgrounds. Thus, this BCDF-A20 activity was working in an antigen-nonspecific and MHC-nonspecific manner and abundant in many T-cell clones. It was shown that neither interleukin 1, interleukin 2, interferon, T-cell replacing factor, B-cell maturation factor, nor B-cell stimulatory factor-1 alone had any significant effect on the induction of Ig secretion of A20 tumor cells. Using isotype-specific rabbit anti-mouse Ig developers, we showed that mIgG2a+ A20 tumor cells secreted IgG2a after the treatment with soluble factors. The peak of the response of A20 tumor cells to BCDF-A20 was obtained 3 days after the treatment with culture supernatants of T-cell clones. In this study, we have clearly shown that mIgG2a+ A20 tumor cells were able to secrete IgG2a after treatment with T-cell soluble factors.
A mouse T cell product that preferentially enhances IgA production. I. Biologic characterization.	Supernatants from a subset of helper T cell clones can enhance IgA, IgE, and IgG1 production in cultures of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated, T cell-depleted spleen cells. The lymphokine interleukin (IL)-4 has been shown to cause the IgE and IgG1 enhancement produced by these supernatants. IgA enhancement, however, is mediated by a factor distinct from IL-4, although IL-4 can potentiate the effect of the IgA-enhancing factor. IgA-enhancing factor is also distinct from IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and interferon-gamma and acts directly on B cells. Purified IgA-enhancing factor enhances IgA production three- to sixfold yet causes less than a twofold increase in other isotypes. The IgA enhancing activity is not inhibited by concentrations of interferon-gamma that inhibit IL-4 activities. In the accompanying article, we show that this IgA enhancing activity is a novel property of the lymphokine IL-5.
A mouse T cell product that preferentially enhances IgA production. II. Physicochemical characterization.	Certain subsets of helper T cells, following stimulation with concanavalin A, secrete factors that specifically enhance the production of IgG1, IgE, and IgA by lipopolysaccharide-stimulated B cells. In the previous report, we describe a factor from the helper T cell line MB2-1 which enhances IgA production. IgA-enhancing factor has been purified from serum-free supernatants of this cell line. The purified lymphokine is a family of microheterogeneous polypeptides presumably modified post-translationally. IgA-enhancing factor has a native m.w. of 45,000 to 60,000 with subunits of between 24,000 and 28,000 under reducing conditions. Upon Edman degradation, a single amino-terminal sequence is detected which is identical to that of the lymphokine interleukin 5. IgA-enhancing factor activity is thus mediated by the same polypeptide that has been characterized as type II B cell growth factor, T cell-replacing factor, and eosinophil-differentiation factor.
Successful induction of adjuvant arthritis in mice by treatment with a monoclonal antibody against IL-4.	Adjuvant arthritis (AA) is an experimental model of autoimmune disease in rats induced by immunization with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MT). Induction of AA in other species, including mice, has been shown to be difficult. In the present study, we found that AA could be induced in mice if the animals were treated with a mAb (11B11 mAb) against IL-4. Histologically, the joints exhibited synovial edema with infiltration of many neutrophils in the early phase of inflammation. In its late phase, there were proliferation of synovium, cell infiltrate in which mononuclear cells predominated, and destruction of cartilage and subchondral bone. The joint inflammation was passively transferred to normal syngeneic recipient mice with lymphoid cells but not with sera from mice immunized with MT followed by treatment with the anti-IL-4 Ab. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and proliferative responses of lymphoid cells to purified protein derivative were markedly augmented in 11B11 mAb-treated mice. Furthermore, the induction of arthritis was associated with a marked decrease in IL-4 secretion but a significant increase in IFN-gamma and IL-2 production. Thus, the neutralization of IL-4 by an anti-IL-4 Ab appears to be required for the induction of AA in mice.
