An aptamer-siRNA chimera suppresses HIV-1 viral loads and protects from helper CD4(+) T cell decline in humanized mice.	Therapeutic strategies designed to treat HIV infection with combinations of antiviral drugs have proven to be the best approach for slowing the progression to AIDS. Despite this progress, there are problems with viral drug resistance and toxicity, necessitating new approaches to combating HIV-1 infection. We have therefore developed a different combination approach for the treatment of HIV infection in which an RNA aptamer, with high binding affinity to the HIV-1 envelope (gp120) protein and virus neutralization properties, is attached to and delivers a small interfering RNA (siRNA) that triggers sequence-specific degradation of HIV RNAs. We have tested the antiviral activities of these chimeric RNAs in a humanized Rag2(-/-)γc(-/-) (RAG-hu) mouse model with multilineage human hematopoiesis. In this animal model, HIV-1 replication and CD4(+) T cell depletion mimic the situation seen in human HIV-infected patients. Our results show that treatment with either the anti-gp120 aptamer or the aptamer-siRNA chimera suppressed HIV-1 replication by several orders of magnitude and prevented the viral-induced helper CD4(+) T cell decline. In comparison to the aptamer alone, the aptamer-siRNA combination provided more extensive inhibition, resulting in a significantly longer antiviral effect that extended several weeks beyond the last injected dose. The aptamer thus acts as a broad-spectrum HIV-neutralizing agent and an siRNA delivery vehicle. The combined aptamer-siRNA agent provides an attractive, nontoxic therapeutic approach for treatment of HIV infection.
MHC class I-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes to viral antigens destroy hepatocytes in mice infected with E1-deleted recombinant adenoviruses.	The use of E1-deleted recombinant adenoviruses in gene therapy has consistently been associated with transient gene expression and inflammation due to immune-based destruction of the infected cells. We have used murine models of adenovirus-mediated gene transfer to liver to investigate these immunologic mechanisms. Adoptive transfer experiments, as well as studies involving genetic knockout mice, confirmed the original hypothesis that cell-mediated immunity induced by E1-deleted adenovirus destroyed trans-gene-expressing hepatocytes and defined MHC class I-restricted CD8+ cytolytic lymphocytes as the primary immune effectors for hepatocyte destruction. Responses mediated by CD4+ cells per se were insufficient to mediate destruction of hepatocytes in vivo, despite the activation of virus-specific T helper cells of Th1 subsets. A better understanding of the response of the host to in vivo gene therapy is important in evaluating its usefulness in humans.
