Predominance of Vgamma9/Vdelta2 T lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid of children with tuberculous meningitis: reversal after chemotherapy.	We analyzed the gammadelta T cell composition and responses in the peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of children affected by tuberculous meningitis (TBM) and in control children.
Oxidized low density lipoproteins induce apoptosis in PHA-activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in the Jurkat T-cell line.	Oxidized low density lipoproteins (oxLDLs) and activated T lymphocytes are present in early atherosclerotic plaques. It has been shown that oxLDLs are cytotoxic to cultured vascular cells but their possible toxic action on T lymphocytes has not been described. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy individuals were stimulated in vitro with the polyclonal activator phytohemagglutinin and treated with various doses of native and mildly oxidized LDLs. Low doses of oxLDLs inhibited cell growth and DNA synthesis after 48 h culture and at 200 microg apoB/ml we observed a loss of cell viability. Dead cells did not exhibit significant increase of alteration of membrane integrity (i.e., necrosis) but showed chromatin fragmentation evaluated by DNA staining with 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole and propidium iodide. This fragmentation increased with TBARS and hydroperoxide levels. The expression of early apoptosis marker Apo2.7 rose among the CD3(+) T-cell population. In addition, morphological analysis showed apoptotic features (cell shrinking, nucleus condensation, and fragmentation). Study of phosphatidylserine expression using Annexin V confirmed that oxLDLs induced apoptosis in activated lymphocytes. In the Jurkat T-cell line cultured with oxLDLs, apoptotic morphological changes (condensation and nucleus fragmentation) were observed and they were accompanied by DNA fragmentation visualized by propidium iodide staining and electrophoresis showing apoptotic ladder. These results demonstrate that mildly oxidized LDLs induce apoptosis in a part of activated and proliferating T cells. T-lymphocyte apoptosis induction in atherosclerotic lesions might contribute to the development of an inappropriate local T cell response.
Inhibition of concanavalin A-induced acute T cell dependent hepatic damage in mice by hypothyroidism.	Concanavalin A (Con A) activates T lymphocytes and causes acute T-cell-mediated hepatic injury in mice. Decreased thyroid hormonal production is associated with a variety of immunological manifestations, including inactivation of macrophages with reduced TNF production and reduced soluble IL-2 receptors in the serum. We have recently shown that hypothyroidism prevents the development of cirrhosis and also minimizes hepatic damage in rats with fulminant hepatic failure. In the present study we examined the effects of hypothyroidism on a mouse model of Con A induced T cell-mediated acute hepatitis.
Mitochondrial DNA replication in human T lymphocytes is regulated primarily at the H-strand termination site.	The most unique feature in the replication of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is that most of the newly synthesized heavy strands (H-strands) terminate prematurely, resulting in the formation of displacement loop (D-loop) strands. Only the H-strand which proceeds past the termination site is a true nascent H-strand leading to the overall replication on a circular mtDNA molecule. The physiological significance of the D-loop formation has long been unclear. To examine the role of premature termination in mtDNA replication, we therefore developed a method for selectively measuring both the total amount of nascent H-strands and the amount of true nascent H-strands using ligation-mediated polymerase chain reaction, which, for the first time, enabled us to estimate the frequency of premature termination. The stimulation of cell proliferation with interleukin 2 and phytohemagglutinin in human peripheral T lymphocytes caused an increase in the net replication rate of mtDNA. In stimulated cells, in comparison to resting ones, the amount of true nascent H-strands increased approx. 2.6-fold while the total amount of nascent H-strands remained unchanged, indicating that premature termination decreased while the initiation of replication remained the same. Our findings thus demonstrate the first clear example that premature termination plays a primary role in the up-regulation of the net rate of mtDNA replication in human cells.
An evaluation of the mitogenic reactivity of intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes of chickens.	A colorimetric assay employing MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl], 2-5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) was used to determine the mitogenic response of intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (i-IELs) of chickens to T- and B-cell mitogens. Comparisons between mitogenic responses of i-IELs and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) were made to examine potential relationships. The results from this study indicated that T-cell mitogens, concanavalin A (Con A), and phytohemagglutinin-P (PHA-P) induced mitogenic stimulation in i-IELs. Although stimulation indexes of both i-IELs and PBLs were similar, the optical densities (ODs) of i-IEL cultures containing Con A or PHA-P were 20- to 50-fold lower than the ODs of PBL cultures containing the same mitogen. The lower conversion of MTT to formazan resulting in lower ODs in i-IEL cultures indicated a lower level of cellular activity in the i-IELs than in the PBLs. The mitogenic responses of both i-IELs and PBLs to Con A and PHA-P were dose dependent. The responsive concentration of Con A for i-IELs was within the range of 25-50 micrograms/ml, whereas the responsive concentration of PHA-P for i-IELs was 50 micrograms/ml. Three days of incubation was found to be adequate to induce a significant (P < 0.05) mitogenic response for both T-cell mitogens. Lipopolysaccharide was unable to induce a mitogenic response in i-IELs, which was attributed to the lack of B cells in the i-IEL population. This technique may prove useful in evaluating and studying the role of i-IELs in local cell-mediated immune responses of the gastrointestinal tract.
Generation of human T-cell responses to an HLA-A2.1-restricted peptide epitope derived from alpha-fetoprotein.	Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is often derepressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma. Peptide fragments of AFP presented in the context of major histocompatibility molecules could serve as potential recognition targets by CD8 T cells, provided these lymphocytes were not clonally deleted in ontogeny. We therefore wished to determine whether the human T-cell repertoire could recognize AFP-derived peptide epitopes in the context of a common class I allele, HLA-A2.1. Dendritic cells genetically engineered to express AFP were capable of generating AFP-specific T-cell responses in autologous human lymphocyte cultures and in HLA-A2.1/Kb transgenic mice. These T cells recognize a 9-mer peptide derived from the AFP protein hAFP(542-550) (GVALQTMKQ). Identified as a potential A2.1-restricted peptide epitope from a computer analysis of the AFP sequence, hAFP(542-550) proved to have low binding affinity to A2.1, but slow off-kinetics. AFP-specific CTL- and IFN-gamma-producing cells recognize hAFP(542-550)-pulsed targets. Conversely, hAFP(542-550) peptide-generated T cells from both human lymphocyte cultures and A2.1/Kb transgenic mice recognized AFP-transfected targets in both cytotoxicity assays and cytokine release assays. These lines of evidence clearly demonstrate that AFP-reactive clones have not been deleted from the human T-cell repertoire and identify one immunodominant A2.1-restricted epitope. These findings also clearly establish AFP as a potential target for T-cell-based immunotherapy.
20-hydroxyecdysone as a human lymphocyte and neutrophil modulator: In vitro evaluation.	20-hydroxyecdysone (1 microM) was found to activate in vitro T-cell CD2 presentation, which is suppressed both in secondary immunodeficient persons and pharmacologically by increasing intracellular cAMP levels. The compound was found to act like a synthetic psycho-immunomodulator 1-oxy-4-oxoadamantane (1 microM) and to exceed the effects of the thymomimetic agent levamisol (1 microM). In addition, 20-hydroxyecdysone (1 microM) was also revealed to modulate the fluoride-stimulated respiratory burst of human neutrophils in the same manner as water soluble antioxidants. Arch.
Signal pathway of mitogen-induced Ca2+-activated K+ currents in young and aged T-cell clones of C57BL/6 mice.	Signal transduction pathways of mitogenic plant lectin, concanavalin A (Con A)- and ionomycin (INM)-induced (Ca2+-dependent K+ currents (I(Con A) and I(INM)) have been compared in young and aged T-cell clones by using the nystatin perforated patch-clamp whole-cell recording technique. In young T-cell clones, Con A evoked a long-lasting outward current which is mediated by the activation of the Ca2+-dependent K+ channels. The Ca2+ ionophore, INM, evoked a short-lasting Ca2+-dependent outward K+ current (I(INM)). The protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor, herbimycin A (3 x 10(-6) M), but not the G protein blocker, pertussis toxin (PTX, 500 ng ml(-1)), completely prevented the I(Con A), but did not affect the I(INM). In aged T-cell clones, Con A fails to evoke any current response, while INM evokes an outward current which is comparable to that in a young T-cell clone. It is concluded that PTK, but not PTX-sensitive G proteins, plays a critical role in mediation of the signal transduction from Con A stimulation to activation of the Ca2+-dependent K+ channels, and that an impairment of the early signal pathway, perhaps the PTK, might be involved in the mechanism of the age-related decline of the proliferative response of T-lymphocytes to mitogenic stimulation.
Role of protein kinase C in signal attenuation following T cell receptor engagement.	T lymphocyte activation through stimulation of the T cell receptor complex and co-stimulatory receptors is associated with acute tyrosine phosphorylation of intracellular proteins, which in turn mediate downstream signaling events that regulate interleukin-2 expression and cell proliferation. The extent of protein tyrosine phosphorylation is rapidly attenuated after only 1-2 min of stimulation as a means of tightly controlling the initial signaling response. Here we show that this attenuation of tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc, CrkL, and the proto-oncogene Cbl is mimicked by treatment of mouse T lymphocytes or cultured Jurkat cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. This effect is blocked by the specific protein kinase C inhibitor GF109203X, but not by PD98059, an inhibitor of MEK1/2 kinase. Activation of protein kinase C by phorbol ester also causes rapid (t(1)/(2) = 2 min) dissociation of both CrkL and p85/phosphoinositide 3-kinase from Cbl concomitant with Cbl tyrosine dephosphorylation. More important, GF109203X treatment of Jurkat cells prior to T cell receptor stimulation by anti-CD3/CD4 antibodies results in an enhanced (2-fold) peak of Cbl phosphorylation compared with that observed in control cells. Furthermore, the rate of attenuation of both Cbl tyrosine phosphorylation and its association with CrkL following stimulation with anti-CD3/CD4 antibodies is much slower in Jurkat cells treated with GF109203X. Taken together, these data provide strong evidence that one or more isoforms of phorbol ester-responsive protein kinase C play a key role in a feedback mechanism that attenuates tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins and reverses formation of signaling complexes in response to T cell receptor activation.
Can T-cell immunity in an adult be regenerated?]	In man, normal peripheral T cell function depends on thymopoiesis during the foetal and perinatal period (up to 3 months). In humans, studies have shown that declines in thymic T-cell regenerative capacity begins relatively early in life, resulting in a limited capacity for T-cell regeneration by young adulthood. These limitations in T-cell regeneration have significant clinical implications in the setting of HIV infection and bone marrow transplantation. Recent studies have reported that the human thymus can generate new cells throughout life, and even late, into adult life. Patients infected with HIV can generate new peripheral T cells after anti-viral therapy. In view of a continuous role of thymopoiesis in man, there is a growing need for relevant models of human thymopoiesis. Using a hybrid human-mouse FTOC model, we have shown that IL-7 is an essential growth factor for thymocytes and that certain genes of HIV interfere with the normal production of thymocytes. These studies allow the selection for products active in therapeutic restoration or maintenance of thymic function.
A novel T cell cytokine stimulates interleukin-6 in human osteoblastic cells.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease characterized by a heavy lymphocytic infiltration into the synovial cavity, resulting in the secretion of a variety of cytokines which ultimately leads to destruction of joint tissue. Among the infiltrating cells are activated T cells which produce specific cytokines capable of osteoclast progenitor cell expansion, fusion, and activation. Cultures of activated human T cells and human osteoblasts (hOBs) were used to study the possibility that lymphokines may act on osteoblasts to produce the osteoclastogenic factor interleukin-6 (IL-6). Purified T cells were activated with a combination of anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, cocultured with hOBs in direct physical contact or separated by a transwell system, and conditioned media (CM) were assayed for IL-6 production. After a 72 h incubation period, activated T cell-hOB interaction resulted in a 100-fold increase of IL-6 production over basal levels. The immunosuppressant cyclosporine A (CsA) inhibited T cell tumor necrosis factor alpha and IL-6 production but did not inhibit the T cell induction of IL-6 from hOB. Assay of activated T-cell CM on hOB revealed that a soluble factor, not cell-cell contact, was the major inducer of IL-6. The induction of IL-6 mRNA by both activated T cell CM and CsA-treated activated T cell CM was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. Neutralizing antibodies to IL-13 and IL-17 did not affect IL-6 production. These findings suggest that activated T cells produce a novel, potent, IL-6 inducing factor that may be responsible for the bone loss observed in RA patients.
The relationship between peripheral T cell reactivity to insulin, clinical remissions and cytokine production in type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus.	Antigenic proliferative responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) to insulin were studied in 44 type 1 new-onset diabetic subjects. Of them, 14 (32%) had a stimulation index (> or =3) above the mean + 3 SD of 39 healthy controls and of 7 of 15 (47%) diabetic patients of long duration (P = 0.001). Responses to insulin were not dictated by specific major histocompatibility complex class II association and were not observed in normal subjects with diabetes-associated human leukocyte antigen-DR/DQ alleles. Whereas no relation of PBMC reactivity with insulin autoantibodies was found, there was a positive correlation with the presence of at least one of the four autoantibodies tested and with IA-2 antibody. An interesting finding was that the proportion of patients with subsequent low insulin requirement, up to 24 months, was significantly higher in patients who showed PBMC reactivity to insulin (8 of 8) than in those who did not (10 of 24, 42%; P = 0.004). The former had a higher mean stimulation index than the latter (3.3+/-2.6 vs. 1.5+/-0.6; P = 0.006). Furthermore, interleukin-4 (IL-4) production was lower in type 1 diabetic patients who proliferated to insulin than in those who did not (23+/-15 vs. 64+/-47 pg/mL; P = 0.04), but interferon-gamma, IL-2, and IL-10 productions were similar. In conclusion, these results suggest that proliferation to insulin may reflect the presence of an higher residual beta-cell mass.
Defective proliferative response of T lymphocytes from patients with inactive systemic lupus erythematosus.	To further define the pattern of alterations in the activation and apoptosis of T lymphocytes in patients with inactive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) through analysis of a large series of individuals.
Exposure of rats to a 50-Hz, 100 muTesla magnetic field does not affect the ex vivo production of interleukins by activated T or B lymphocytes.	Two separate, independent experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of exposure of rats to a 50-Hz linearly polarized, 100 microT magnetic field (MF) on the ex vivo production of interleukins (ILs) by mitogen-stimulated splenic lymphocytes. IL-1 and IL-2 were determined by proliferation assays, using IL-dependent murine T cell lines. In the first experiment, female Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA] at a dose of 20 mg per rat (four weekly gavage doses of 5 mg), and were either MF-exposed or sham-exposed for 14 weeks. This experimental protocol has previously been shown to result in a significant increase in breast cancer growth in response to MF exposure. Furthermore, MF exposure at 50-100 microT for 3 months was recently found to induce a suppressed ex vivo proliferation of splenic T cells in response to mitogen stimulation, which could be a result of reduced IL production of spleen lymphocytes. However, the present experiments failed to demonstrate any significant difference between MF- and sham-exposed groups in production of IL-1 by mitogen-activated splenic B cells. In a second experiment, shorter MF exposure periods were studied with respect to IL production from mitogen-stimulated B and T cells. Groups of rats were MF- or sham-exposed for 1 day, 1 week, or 2 weeks, followed by preparation and activation of spleen lymphocytes. No significant difference in IL-1 or IL-2 production from stimulated B or T cells was seen. The data indicate that in vivo MF exposure of rats does not affect the ex vivo IL production of B or T lymphocytes, suggesting that the recently reported changes in T cell proliferation in response to MF exposure may not be mediated via alterations in B or T cell IL production.
Immunomodulating activity of seaweed extract on human lymphocytes in vitro.	Effect of eight kinds of seaweed extract (SWE) on human lymphocytes was studied in vitro. The extracts of Hizikiafusiformis and Meristotheca papulosa (green) markedly stimulated human lymphocytes to proliferate, whereas Eucheuma muricatum and Meristotheca papulosa (red) weakly stimulated proliferation. The responder cells are T cells, because T cells purified by sheep red blood cell (SRBC) rosette-formation were significantly stimulated with SWE, but B cells were not. These extracts enhanced the induction of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity, but failed to enhance natural killer (NK) cell activity. These extracts had a stimulatory effect on immunoglobulin (Ig) production by B cells and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production by monocytes. The activity of Hizikia fusiformis associated with polysaccharides which were extracted with ethanol and purified by ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography, whose molecular weight was about 100 kDa. These results suggest that SWE has an immunomodulating activity on human lymphocytes and this ability might be useful for clinical application to treat several diseases such as tumors.
In vivo and in vitro iron deficiency reduces protein kinase C activity and translocation in murine splenic and purified T cells.	We investigated the effects of iron deficiency anemia, iron repletion, and iron chelation by deferoxamine on protein kinase C (PKC) activity, an enzyme that plays a crucial role on T lymphocyte proliferation. The study involved 23 control (C), 18 pairfed (PF), and 24 iron deficient (ID) mice or ID mice that were repleted for 3 (n = 14), 7 (n = 17), or 14 (n = 14) days. The low iron (0.09 mmol iron/kg) and iron-supplemented (0.9 mmol iron/kg) diets were fed to mice for 53 days. Mean hemoglobin, hematocrit, and liver iron stores of ID mice were one third of those of C mice. Lymphocyte proliferation was reduced (P < 0.05) in spleen and purified T cells in ID but not PF mice. In concanavalin A, phytohemagglutinin, and anti-CD3 antibody-treated and untreated cells that were incubated in serum-free and serum-containing medium, PKC activity was significantly (P < 0.05) reduced in ID but not PF mice and returned to normal before correction of anemia. In mitogen-treated cells, while the ratios of membrane-bound to cytosol activity increased nearly seven-fold (from 0.4-0.63 in resting cells to 1.43-7.23) in spleen cells from C, PF, and repleted mice and 11-fold in T cells (P < 0.005), they remained below 1 in ID mice suggesting reduced translocation. In vitro iron chelation by deferoxamine for 120 min prior to cell activation reduced (P < 0.05) PKC activity by 46-60% in C and PF and 28-53% in ID mice. The data suggest that: 1) it is iron-deficiency but not anemia or differences in the proportion of immunocompetent T cells that reduced PKC activity in cells from ID mice; 2) reduced PKC translocation may play an important role on altered lymphocyte proliferation and associated functions in iron-deficient individuals.
Pyrethroids and piperonyl-butoxide affect human T-lymphocytes in vitro.	Synthetic pyrethroids are increasingly used as insecticides and are claimed to have a relatively low human toxicity. The aim of this study was to examine the in vitro effects of the synthetic pyrethroid S-bioallethrin alone and in combination with the common synergist piperonyl-butoxide (PBO) on human blood lymphocytes and basophils in atopic individuals and non-atopic control subjects. S-bioallethrin and PBO also caused inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation (MTT-test) after a 72-h culture period in a concentration dependent manner. In contrast to the MTT-measurements the combined agents are more effective in inhibiting interleukin-4 (IL-4)- and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-production. The regulatory IL-4/IFN-gamma balance showed a significant difference between atopic and non-atopic subjects after a culture period of 24-48 h in the presence of micromolar S-bioallethrin (P < 0.001). Furthermore S-bioallethrin, PBO and the combined agents induced histamine release from human basophils. Although this effect was little compared to histamine liberators like FMLP and anti-IgE, the response to S-bioallethrin and PBO was significantly different in atopic donors compared with non-atopics (P < 0.01). In scratch test experiments 4 of 18 tested atopic volunteers showed positive reaction (wheals and flares) to S-bioallethrin and permethrin, whereas no reaction could be measured in the control group (age-matched). These findings demonstrate the immuno- and allergo-toxicological properties of the synthetic pyrethroid S-bioallethrin combined with the synergistic PBO using this in vitro approach with human lymphocytes and basophils.
Immune regulatory properties of corticosteroids: prednisone induces apoptosis of human T lymphocytes following the CD3 down-regulation.	Glucocorticoid hormones (GCH) induce apoptosis in PHA-primed peripheral blood T lymphocytes (PBL) and down-regulate membrane-bound proteins involved in the immune response. We have analyzed whether GCH are able to affect the expression of the TCR-associated molecules CD3, CD4, and CD8 on PBL-PHA, and whether the modulation of those receptors is related to the GCH-driven apoptosis of the PBL-PHA. Lymphocytes were cultured with PHA or with PHA plus prednisone (PDN) 10(-3), 10(-6), and 10(-9) M. Then expression of CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, and CD56 antigens was studied by cytofluorimetric assay using propidium iodide (PI) staining and annexin procedure, and by gel electrophoresis of low molecular weight DNA. PDN, at a pharmacological concentration (10(-6) M), was able to inhibit the CD3 expression on T cells. The kinetics of CD3 decrement and of apoptosis show that the down-regulation of CD3 molecules precedes DNA fragmentation and that the cells lacking CD3 are those prone to PDN-induced apoptosis. The inhibition of CD3 is not related to a transcriptional or posttranscriptional phenomenon, because both PBL-PHA and PBL-PHA-PDN expressed the same amount of intracytoplasmic CD3 molecule. PDN also induced a down-regulation of the CD4 and CD8 molecules that resulted sooner in more intense CD8. In vitro PDN is able to induce apoptosis in PBL-PHA through a down-regulation of CD3 molecules.
Possible differences in the mechanism(s) of action of different glucocorticoid hormone compounds.	Different glucocorticoid hormones (GCH) show differences in the intensity and in the kinetics of their immunomodulating activity. The mechanism(s) of action of GCH is under investigation, but is has been noted that they exert immune activity via the genomic pathway. We have studied the effects of prednisone (PDN), deflazacort (DFC), and dexamethasone (DXM) on the production of cytokines (IL-2, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-10) by peripheral T lymphocytes, and the effects on the inhibition of NF-kB DNA binding activity by activated Jurkat cell line. The data obtained show that the three GCH molecules exert an immunosuppression on cytokine production by T lymphocytes and a strong decrease in the nuclear translocation of NF-kB in Jurkat cells; moreover, (a) not all the cytokines investigated were affected, and not with the same intensity, by the three GCH and (b) DXM inhibited the binding activity of NF-kB less than that of DFC and PDN. These data are in agreement with the concept that different GCH compounds might differ in their binding and affinity properties, tissue-specific metabolism, and interaction with transcription factor.
Characterization of the human leukocyte GPI-anchored glycoprotein CDw108 and its relation to other similar molecules.	The CDw108 glycoprotein is expressed on the surface of some leukemic cell lines, erythrocytes and on activated lymphocytes. Its surface expression is rapidly upregulated following various activating stimuli (PHA, PWM, Con A, PMA, anti-CD3) and subsequently gradually decreases. The molecule is anchored in the membrane via glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety, it has molecular mass of 75-80 kDa and pI of 5.0-5.5. Endoglycosidase F and H reduce its apparent size as determined by SDS PAGE by approx. 15 and 22 kDa, respectively. It is a component of large, detergent-resistant GPI-complexes associated with protein kinases. In addition to the previously described identity of CDw108 with the JMH blood group antigen, we demonstrate here its identity to the previously described glycoprotein recognized by monoclonal antibodies H105 and KS.2, and exclude its identity with another GPI-anchored glycoprotein of similar size, melanotransferrin (gp97).
Increased expression of CTLA-4 (CD152) by T and B lymphocytes in Wegener's granulomatosis.	CTLA-4 (CD152) is a surface molecule of activated T cells with sequence homology to CD28. Both molecules bind to the same ligands, B7.1 (CD80) and B7.2 (CD86) but have antagonistic functions. While CD28 is an important costimulator, CTLA-4 has an essential inhibitory function in maintaining the homeostasis of the immune system. Furthermore, CTLA-4 has a role in inducing a Th1 response and suppressing Th2 cytokines, an effect which is antagonized by CD28. Many autoimmune diseases are characterized by an overwhelming production of Th1 cytokines. Recently, the predominance of the Th1 cytokine pattern has been directly observed in the granulomatous inflammation of patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. The balance between CD28 and CTLA-4 expression by T lymphocytes could be a factor in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Down regulation of CD28 predominantly on CD8+ T cells has been described in Wegner's granulomatosis; however, analysis of CTLA-4 is complicated by its low expression levels. Here we have used potent signal enhancement to study CTLA-4 on PBMC in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (n = 25) in comparison with healthy controls (n = 19). Expression levels of CTLA-4 were significantly increased selectively on CD4+ and possibly also on CD4-/CD8- T cells in Wegener's granulomatosis. High CTLA-4 expression by T lymphocytes was associated with more severe disease. In contrast, after stimulation with the mitogen PHA, CTLA-4 levels were strongly increased on T cells from controls but in T cells from Wegener's granulomatosis patients this response was severely impaired. Interestingly, while CTLA-4 was seen exclusively on T cells in control individuals, about half of the Wegener's patients showed CTLA-4 expression by a fraction of peripheral B lymphocytes. CTLA-4 positive B cells in the periphery were associated with less acute disease.
CD28 stimulation regulates its association with N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein and other proteins involved in vesicle sorting.	CD28 delivers a co-stimulatory signal for T cell antigen receptor induced activation of T cells through a mechanism which remains mostly elusive to date. In order to try and gain insight into CD28 function, we therefore applied state-of-the-art mass spectrometric protein identification technology to the analysis of CD28 immunoprecipitates prepared from Jurkat T cells. We found that N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) and other proteins with sequence similarities to proteins part of or implicated in vesicular protein sorting pathways, were associated with CD28 in a CD28 stimulation-dependent manner. Furthermore, N-ethylmaleimide treatment abolished the NSF/CD28 interaction completely, and blocked CD28 association with a tyrosine phosphorylated 103 kDa protein in the activated cells. These results are suggestive of a potential model for CD28 co-stimulation regulated by an NSF-catalyzed mechanism.
Mitochondrial and nuclear glucocorticoid-sensitive alkaline proteases in thymocytes.	Glucocorticoid-sensitive alkaline proteases are localized in the nuclear and mitochondrial fractions of rat thymocytes. Dexamethasone load increased alkaline protease activity in the nuclear fraction and decreased or even eliminated it in the mitochondrial fraction. The inhibitory analysis showed that SH groups and disulfide bonds play a crucial role in the functioning of glucocorticoid-activated nuclear alkaline protease. Hence, this enzyme can be assigned to as cysteine proteases. Mitochondrial alkaline protease is a serine hydrolase, although it does not belong to the class of trypsin- or chymotrypsin-like enzymes. The role of alkaline proteases in apoptotic death of thymocytes is discussed.
Derivatives of monoglycerides as apoptotic agents in T-cells.	Recently, lipids have received considerable attention for their potential to induce apoptosis when added exogenously to cells. In this study, we directly demonstrate that murine T-cells undergo rapid apoptosis following treatment with various forms of monoglycerides, which are a family of naturally occurring lipids consisting of a single fatty acid moiety attached to a glycerol backbone. The potency of these lipids varied depending on their chemical structure, whereas glycerol backbone or corresponding fatty acids alone were ineffective. Moreover, monoglyceride-mediated apoptosis was suppressed either by Bcl-2 overexpression, treatment with a broad inhibitor of caspases, or RNA and protein synthesis inhibitors. In addition, treatment of cells with derivatives of monoglycerides induced a calcium flux, which could be inhibited by both extracellular (EGTA) or intracellular (EGTA-AM) calcium chelators. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating a role for derivatives of monoglycerides as inducers of apoptosis in mammalian cells.
Effect of trapidil on effector functions of monocytes related to atherosclerotic plaque.	The infiltration and activation of inflammatory cells play an important role in the formation and stability of coronary atherosclerotic plaque in patients with acute coronary syndrome. In this study, we evaluated the effect of trapidil, an anti-platelet agent, on atheroma-related functions of human T cells and monocytes. Trapidil and anti-CD154 (CD40 ligand) antibody inhibited the increase of procoagulant activity in the mixed lymphocyte reaction; trapidil also suppressed the induction of tissue factor, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in the mixed lymphocyte reaction. Trapidil did not alter CD154 expression on isolated T cells, but it diminished CD40 expression on isolated monocytes and human monocytic leukemia THP-1 cells stimulated with interferon-gamma. Moreover, trapidil reduced MCP-1 production of isolated monocytes and THP-1 cells stimulated with interferon-gamma plus CD154-transfected cells. This effect was not seen with other tested anti-platelet agents and coronary vasodilators. In conclusion, trapidil directly acts on monocytes/macrophages to lower their susceptibility to CD154 on T cells.
Allergic diathesis in transgenic mice with constitutive T cell expression of inducible vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor.	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and its G-protein-coupled receptors (VPAC1 and VPAC2 Rs) are prominent in the immune system. In T cells, VPAC1 R is expressed constitutively whereas VPAC2 R is induced only after stimulation of the T cell receptor (TCR) or exposure to some cytokines. VPAC1 R and VPAC2 R also transduce different effects of VIP on T cells. Constitutive expression of VPAC2 R selectively in CD4+ T cells (helper-inducer Th cells) of transgenic (TG) C57BL/6 mice directed by the lck tyrosine kinase promoter is now shown to evoke production of more Th2-type interleukins 4 and 5, and less Th1-type interferon gamma after TCR activation. VPAC2 R TG mice consequently have significant elevations of blood IgE, IgG1, and eosinophils. VPAC2 R TG mice also show increased IgE antibody responses, which mediate heightened cutaneous allergic reactions, and have depressed delayed-type hypersensitivity. VIP enhancement of the ratio of Th2 cell to Th1 cell cytokines thus evokes an allergic state in normally nonallergic mice, which suggests the possibility of neuropeptide contributions to immune phenotypic alterations in human hypersensitivity diseases.
Anti-inflammatory effects of theophylline: modulation of immune functions during murine leukemia virus infection.	LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus induces immune dysfunction leading to B cell leukemia and murine AIDS with cytokine dsyregulation. Theophylline induces apoptosis of leukemia cells in humans. Therefore the effects of theophylline on immune dysfunction in a murine model of leukemia were investigated. C57BL/6 mice consumed drinking water containing 0.3% theophylline beginning 2 weeks after murine retrovirus infection for 4 months. Theophylline largely prevented the retrovirus induced splenomagaly, lymphodenopathy, reduction in B and T cell proliferation, and suppression of Thl cytokines (IL-2) secretion. It also suppressed Th2 cytokine (IL-4, TNF-alpha, and IL-10) production, which was otherwise stimulated by retrovirus infection. These data suggest that immune dysfunction, induced by murine retrovirus infection, was largely prevented by theophylline treatment.
Multiple immune functions in rats fed Echinacea extracts.	This study evaluated acquired-immune functions representing the three major branches of the immune system in male rats fed a commercially available echinacea product. An additional comparison of effects on antibody formation in male and female rats was done using the commercial echinacea product and two echinacea tinctures marketed by local herbalists. In initial testing, we found no evidence of altered natural killer cell activity, T cell-mediated delayed-type hypersensitivity, or specific antibody formation in male rats given either a 225 mg/kg or 50 mg/kg of the commercial echinacea for 6 weeks. Antibody formation was significantly suppressed in female but not male rats given 250 mg/kg for 2 weeks of the commercial echinacea. The local products tested had no effect on antibody formation. We concluded that our study provided no supporting evidence for immunostimulatory activity by the echinacea preparations we examined and, in fact, may be immunosuppressive under some conditions.
Acetylcholine receptor-reactive antibody induces nitric oxide production by a rat skeletal muscle cell line: influence of cytokine environment.	The monoclonal Lewis rat skeletal muscle cell line, LE1, responded to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR)-reactive antibody mAb35 by up-regulating levels of mRNA for inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS/NOS-II), followed by levels of NO. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) were also each capable of inducing iNOS message, and synergistically with mAb35. Finally, myocyte-derived NO was implicated as a possible source of immunomodulation in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG), as shown by the ability of the culture fluids from IFN-gamma-activated LE1 cells to inhibit the proliferation of AChR-reactive T cells.
Interferon-beta therapy downregulates the anti-apoptosis protein FLIP in T cells from patients with multiple sclerosis.	Interferon-beta reduces clinical exacerbations in multiple sclerosis (MS) through several immunomodulatory mechanisms that may involve augmentation of programmed cell death (apoptosis) of T lymphocytes. The anti-apoptosis protein FLIP (Fas-associated death domain-like interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme inhibitory protein) has been recently identified as a potent regulator of T lymphocyte susceptibility to apoptosis. In a prospective study, we evaluated the expression of FLIP and other apoptosis regulatory proteins in ex vivo activated T lymphocytes from MS patients, before and serially after treatment with interferon-beta. We also investigated the long-term effects of interferon-beta on T cell apoptosis in a cross-sectional study of MS patients receiving chronic drug therapy. Treatment with interferon-beta reduced the expression of FLIP isoforms in activated T lymphocytes. This reduced expression correlated with augmented T cell susceptibility to apoptosis and with clinical response to treatment. In contrast, interferon-beta therapy did not alter cellular expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. This downregulatory effect of interferon-beta on cellular FLIP expression was maintained following long-term therapy. Our findings suggest that interferon-beta therapy exerts a regulatory effect on peripheral T lymphocytes through a pro-apoptosis mechanism that involves the downregulation of cellular FLIP expression.
Effect of oral zinc supplementation upon Taenia crassiceps murine cysticercosis.	The effect of zinc supplementation on Taenia crassiceps murine cysticercosis was studied in susceptible BALB/cAnN mice. Female offspring of mice supplemented with high zinc throughout gestation and lactation were intraperitoneally infected with T. crassiceps cysticerci. Offspring from nonsupplemented mothers were used as controls. Significantly fewer parasites were recovered from zinc-supplemented mice (Zsm) 30 days after infection. Increased resistance was not related to the IgG antibody response. At early stages of infection, T cells from Zsm proliferated to T. crassiceps antigens, whereas cells from control mice did not respond. Infection caused in both groups a decrease in CD3+ cell percentages, which was more pronounced in the controls, and paralleled by a decrease in CD8+ cells; CD3+ and CD8+ percentages returned to normal levels at later stages of infection. In contrast, the CD4+ subpopulation only decreased in control mice. Intracellular cytokine determinations indicate that zinc supplementation favored a stronger and persistent type-1 T cell response in cysticerci-infected mice, which probably participates in the observed increased resistance.
Multiple sclerosis: modulation of apoptosis susceptibility by glatiramer acetate.	We investigated whether therapy of multiple sclerosis (MS) with glatiramer acetate (GA) involves the modulation of programmed cell death (apoptosis) in disease-relevant T-helper lymphocytes.
Macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha and C-C chemokine receptor-1 in allergen-induced skin late-phase reactions: relationship to macrophages, neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils and T lymphocytes.	Macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha binds to C-C chemokine receptor (CCR)-1 with high affinity. CCR-1 is expressed on neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes, T lymphocytes and basophils; cells characteristic of atopic allergic inflammation. In vitro, MIP-1alpha is chemotactic for monocytes, T cells and basophils and is also a potent histamine-releasing factor for basophils and mast cells. Although increased levels of MIP-1alpha were shown in atopic allergic disorders, the kinetics of expression of these CC chemokines in vivo is largely unknown.
Regulation of surface and intracellular expression of CTLA-4 on human peripheral T cells.	Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen (CTLA-4) is an important downregulator of T-cell activation. In order to analyze the expression and regulation of CTLA-4 on human peripheral T cells, CTLA-4 mRNA and protein expression were determined using analysis by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and FACs, respectively. Intracellular CTLA-4 was constitutively expressed in unstimulated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Interleukin (IL)-2 induced a dose-dependent increase of both intracellular and surface expression of CTLA-4 (CD152). Most of the CD4+ and CD8+ cells expressing CTLA-4 also expressed CD25. Interferon (IFN)-gamma induced the upregulation of CTLA-4 expression via antigen-presenting cells (APC) activation. The CTLA-4delTM mRNA (550 bp) had a shorter half-life than the full length CTLA-4 mRNA and the expression was downregulated upon activation of the cells by treatment with IL-2. Given an inhibitory role of CTLA-4 and CD4+ CD25+ T cells in immune responses, the present findings suggest that IL-2-induced immunosuppression may result from its stimulatory effect of the CTLA-4 expression.
Ozone therapy of chronic mandibular osteomyelitis]	Clinical picture, bacterial passage, and immune status were studied in patients with chronic traumatic and chronic odontogenic mandibular osteomyelitis. The deepest disorders of biocenosis and the highest incidence of immunodeficiencies were observed in patients with chronic odontogenic osteomyelitis. Local and total ozone therapy is suggested for antibacterial and immunomodulating treatment. Medical ozone exposure promoted more complete and rapid normalization of nonspecific resistance and T-cellular immunity, thus accelerating clinical cure and reducing the incidence of complications.
Quantitative structure-activity relationship of some HIV-1 protease inhibitors: a Fujita-Ban type analysis.	A Fujita-Ban type analysis has been made on a few series of HIV-1 (human immunodeficiency virus of type 1) protease inhibitors and the activity contributions of various substituents obtained. From these activity contributions, a compound is predicted that may have better activity than ritonavir, presently prescribed for the treatment of patients suffering from HIV-1. A few other compounds are also suggested.
Changes in the immune status parameters and their correction in various forms of tick-borne encephalitis]	Comparative investigation of immune status indices in patients with fever form of vernal encephalitis (group 1), with inapparent form with prolonged antigenemia (group III) and with short-term antigenemia (group II) was performed for the first time. Total 99 patients were under investigation. It was shown that in group I selective damage of immune system at T-level took place. In patients of group III immune system at all levels was less involved and humoral factor were changes. In patients in group II no significant change in immune system were registered. Activity of different immune correctors (thimalin, 4-iodoantipirine, leukinferon) was investigated in vitro. This preparations had stimulating effect in blood samples of patients with decreased immune status. In the patients with unchanged immune status no effect was demonstrated. The most prominent effect was revealed in the case of 4-iodoantipirine--interferon inducer.
Activation of HTLV-I long terminal repeat by stress-inducing agents and protection of HTLV-I-infected T-cells from apoptosis by the viral tax protein.	HTLV-I is etiologically implicated with tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV-I associated myelopathy, adult T-cell leukemia and certain other diseases. However, after infection the virus enters into a dormant state, whereas the characteristics of the HTLV-I related diseases indicate that their genesis requires activation of the dormant virus by a Tax-independent mechanism. In the present study we demonstrate that a variety of stress-inducing agents (TPA, cisplatin, etoposide, taxol, and 3-methylcholanthrene) are capable of Tax-independent activation of HTLV-I LTR and that this activation is detected mainly in cells that are undergoing through the apoptotic process. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that both apoptosis induction and HTLV-I LTR activation are inhibited by Bcl-2 and by PKC, indicating that these two processes are mechanistically cross-linked. In addition, using an HTLV-I producing human T-cell line which permanently express the negatively transdominant tax mutant, Delta58tax, under the Tet-Off control system, we prove that the virally encoded Tax protein protects the host cells from apoptosis. Together, these data suggest that activation of the dormant virus in the carriers' infected T-cells by certain stress-inducing conditions and protecting these cells from the consequent apoptotic death by the viral Tax protein emerging after this activation, might be the basis for switching the virus from latency to a pathogenic phase.
Chemoenzymatic synthesis of sialylated glycopeptides derived from mucins and T-cell stimulating peptides.	The Tn, T, sialyl-Tn, and 2,3-sialyl-T antigens are tumor-associated carbohydrate antigens expressed on mucins in epithelial cancers, such as those affecting the breast, ovary, stomach, and colon. Glycopeptides carrying these antigens are of interest for development of cancer vaccines and a short, chemoenzymatic strategy for their synthesis is reported. Building blocks corresponding to the Tn (GalNAc alpha-Ser/Thr) and T [Gal beta(1-->3)GalNAc alpha-Ser/Thr] antigens, which are relatively easy to obtain by chemical synthesis, were prepared and then used in the synthesis of glycopeptides on the solid phase. Introduction of sialic acid to give the sialyl-Tn [Neu5Ac alpha(2-->6)GalNAc alpha-Ser/Thr] and 2,3-sialyl-T [Neu5Ac alpha(2-->3)Gal beta(1-->3)GalNAc alpha-Ser/Thr] antigens is difficult when performed chemically at the building block level. Sialylation was therefore carried out with recombinant sialyltransferases in solution after cleavage of the Tn and T glycopeptides from the solid phase. In the same manner, the core 2 trisaccharide [Gal beta 1-->3(GlcNAc beta 1-->6)GalNAc] was incorporated in glycopeptides containing the T antigen by using a recombinant N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase. The outlined chemoenzymatic approach was applied to glycopeptides from the tandem repeat domain of the mucin MUC1, as well as to neoglycosylated derivatives of a T cell stimulating viral peptide.
CD45 modulates galectin-1-induced T cell death: regulation by expression of core 2 O-glycans.	Galectin-1 induces death of immature thymocytes and activated T cells. Galectin-1 binds to T cell-surface glycoproteins CD45, CD43, and CD7, although the precise roles of each receptor in cell death are unknown. We have determined that CD45 can positively and negatively regulate galectin-1-induced T cell death, depending on the glycosylation status of the cells. CD45(+) BW5147 T cells lacking the core 2 beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (C2GnT) were resistant to galectin-1 death. The inhibitory effect of CD45 in C2GnT(-) cells appeared to require the CD45 cytoplasmic domain, because Rev1.1 cells expressing only CD45 transmembrane and extracellular domains were susceptible to galectin-1 death. Moreover, treatment with the phosphotyrosine-phosphatase inhibitor potassium bisperoxo(1,10-phenanthroline)oxovanadate(V) enhanced galectin-1 susceptibility of CD45(+) T cell lines, but had no effect on the death of CD45(-) T cells, indicating that the CD45 inhibitory effect involved the phosphatase domain. Expression of the C2GnT in CD45(+) T cell lines rendered the cells susceptible to galectin-1, while expression of the C2GnT in CD45(-) cells had no effect on galectin-1 susceptibility. When CD45(+) T cells bound to galectin-1 on murine thymic stromal cells, only C2GnT(+) T cells underwent death. On C2GnT(+) cells, CD45 and galectin-1 co-localized in patches on membrane blebs while no segregation of CD45 was seen on C2GnT(-) T cells, suggesting that oligosaccharide-mediated clustering of CD45 facilitated galectin-1-induced cell death.
Inability of IL-12 to down-regulate IgE synthesis due to defective production of IFN-gamma in atopic NC/Nga mice.	NC/Nga mice raised in nonsterile circumstances spontaneously suffer from atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions with IgE hyperproduction. We investigated effects of rIL-12 on the IgE production in NC/Nga mice. rIL-12 administration was successful to suppress the increase of IgE levels in BALB/c mice immunized with OVA and aluminum hydroxide, but failed to abrogate that in NC/Nga mice. Both in vivo and in vitro IFN-gamma production induced by rIL-12 was less in NC/Nga mice than in BALB/c mice. Addition of rIFN-gamma to rIL-4 and LPS completely abrogated IgE production by B cells of BALB/c mice, but was insufficient to suppress it by B cells of NC/Nga mice. In splenic cells pretreated with Con A, STAT4 was phosphorylated at the tyrosine residue by addition of rIL-12, which was more weakly inducible in NC/Nga mice than in BALB/c mice. Finally, we examined the preventive ability of rIL-12 on the clinical aspects of atopic dermatitis in NC/Nga mice. rIL-12 administration resulted in exacerbation of development of the skin lesions and IgE production in NC/Nga mice raised in nonsterile circumstances. These results suggest that defective production of IFN-gamma by T cells less sensitive to IL-12 and low responsiveness of B cells to IFN-gamma may contribute to IgE hyperproduction in NC/Nga mice, and that IL-12 may have no ability to improve the clinical aspects of NC/Nga mice.
A combined stress hormone infusion decreases in vivo protein synthesis in human T lymphocytes in healthy volunteers.	In vivo protein synthesis decreases in mononuclear cells following a combined stress hormone infusion given to healthy volunteers as a human trauma model. Here, the purpose was to further investigate this finding and to measure in vivo protein synthesis in isolated T lymphocytes. Furthermore, the effects of stress hormones on the lymphocyte subpopulations and mononuclear cells, characterized by flow cytometry and phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-induced and unstimulated proliferative responses in vitro, were elucidated. Healthy volunteers (n = 16) were randomized into 2 groups to receive either a stress hormone or a saline infusion for 6 hours. In vivo protein synthesis was studied before and after the treatment by measuring the incorporation of stable isotopically-labeled phenylalanine into lymphocyte and mononuclear cell proteins. Protein synthesis decreased after stress hormone infusion in both cell populations: in T lymphocytes from 13.0% +/- 0.7%/d (mean +/- SD) to 8.6% +/- 2.1%/d (P <.01) and in mononuclear cells from 13.3% +/- 1.2%/d to 6.3 +/- 2.0%/d (P <.001). No change in proliferative responsiveness in vitro was observed. The stress hormone infusion produced a decrease in the percentage of T helper CD3/CD4 from 41% to 18% (P <.001), T cytotoxic CD3/CD8 from 27% to 15% (P <.001), as well as total T CD3 cells from 69% to 35% (P <.001). There was an increase in the percentage of natural killer (NK) cells CD16/CD56 from 17% to 55% (P <.001). Determination of phenotypes expressed on activated T lymphocytes showed that CD3/HLA-DR was unchanged and CD3/CD25 decreased from 14% to 7% (P <.01) in the stress hormone group. The study showed that the decrease of in vivo protein synthesis was 34% in T lymphocytes as compared with 53% in mononuclear cells, when determined immediately after a 6-hour stress hormone infusion. This change was associated with a pronounced decrease in all lymphocyte subpopulations, except for the NK cells, which increased substantially.
Increased secretion of IL-18 in vitro by peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with bronchial asthma and atopic dermatitis.	This study was performed to determine whether or not IL-18, formerly called IFN-gamma-inducing factor, is involved in the pathogeneses of allergic disorders. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were obtained from patients with allergic bronchial asthma (BA), patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) and controls who did not have any allergic disease, and then cultured with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). The concentrations of IL-18, IFN-gamma and IL-13 in supernatant fluids were determined by enzymatic immunoassaying, and the expression of IFN-gamma messenger (m) RNA in the cells was measured by colorimetric microplate assaying. IL-18 secretion in the BA patients (geometric mean (gm) = 189 pg/ml) and AD patients (gm = 172 pg/ml) was significantly higher than that in non-allergic controls (gm = 118 pg/ml). In contrast, IFN-gamma secretion in the BA patients (gm = 7.3 IU/ml) and AD patients (gm = 6.8 IU/ml) was significantly lower than that in non-allergic controls (gm = 20.7 IU/ml). The amounts of IL-13 in supernatant fluids and IFN-gamma mRNA in cells were not statistically different among the BA patients, AD patients and non-allergic controls. The possible involvement of IL-18 in allergic disorders is discussed.
Ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I antigens (MHC-I) prevents apoptosis induced by Fas or SAPK/JNK activation in T-lymphoma cells.	Early apoptosis in Jurkat T-lymphoma cells was induced by agonistic anti-Fas Ab or by anisomycin which activates the stress kinases SAPK/JNK. Apoptosis was inhibited by ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I antigens (MHC-I). MHC-I ligation induced upregulation of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein and stabilized the mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsim). MHC-I ligation also prevented downregulation of Bcl-2 and destabilization of Deltapsim induced by anti-Fas Ab treatment or anisomycin exposure. Studies on three different Jurkat cell mutants deficient for src p56(lck), ZAP-70 kinase, or TCR/CD3 gamma-chain showed that the cells undergo apoptosis after Fas ligation. Anisomycin exposure induced apoptosis in the src p56(lck)-deficient cell line but not in the two other mutant cell lines. Simultaneous cross-linking of MHC-I and Fas ligation inhibited apoptosis in the ZAP-70 kinase and the TCR/CD3 gamma-chain mutants, but did not protect the src p56(lck)-deficient cells. Similarly, MHC-I ligation did not protect anisomycin-treated src p56(lck)-deficient cells against apoptosis. These data suggest that MHC-I-induced inhibition of apoptosis depends on intact src p56(lck) activity, but not on major secondary messenger molecules associated with TCR signaling. Overall the results support the idea that signal transduction by MHC-I molecules is involved in homeostatic processes of importance for T-cell survival and death.
Expression of the oncogenic NPM-ALK chimeric protein in human lymphoid T-cells inhibits drug-induced, but not Fas-induced apoptosis.	Anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs) are frequently associated with the t(2;5)(p23;q35) translocation, leading to the expression of NPM-ALK, a fusion protein linking nucleophosmin and anaplastic lymphoma kinase, a receptor tyrosine kinase. In ALCLs, dimerization of NPM-ALK leads to constitutive autophosphorylation and activation of the kinase, necessary for NPM-ALK oncogenicity. To investigate whether NPM-ALK, like other oncogenic tyrosine kinases, can inhibit drug-induced apoptosis, we permanently transfected NPM-ALK into Jurkat T-cells. As in ALCLs, NPM-ALK was expressed as a constitutively kinase-active 80 kDa protein, and could be detected by immunocytochemistry in nucleoli, nuclei and cytoplasm. Doxorubicin-induced apoptosis (assessed by cell morphology and annexin V-FITC binding) was significantly inhibited in two independent NPM-ALK-expressing clones (5.2+/-1.8 and 7.5+/-0.8% apoptosis), compared to control vector-transduced cells (36+/-6.7%). Similar results were observed with etoposide. In contrast, Fas-induced apoptosis was not inhibited. Cytochrome c release into the cytosol was delayed in doxorubicin-, but not anti-Fas-treated transfectant cells, indicating that apoptosis inhibition occurred upstream of mitochondrial events. Using NPM-ALK mutants, we demonstrated that inhibition of drug-induced apoptosis: (1) requires functional kinase activity, (2) does not involve phospholipase C-gamma, essential for NPM-ALK-mediated mitogenicity and (3) appears to be phosphoinositide 3-kinase independent, despite a strong Akt/PKB activation observed in wild type NPM-ALK-expressing cells. These results suggest that the NPM-ALK antiapoptotic and mitogenic pathways are distinct.
Synthesis and antiviral activity of novel acyclic nucleoside analogues of 5-(1-azido-2-haloethyl)uracils.	We present the discovery of a novel category of 5-substituted acyclic pyrimidine nucleosides as potent antiviral agents. A series of 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl] (5-7), 1-[(2-hydroxy-1-(hydroxymethyl)ethoxy)methyl] (8-10), and 1-[4-hydroxy-3-(hydroxymethyl)-1-butyl] (11-13) derivatives of 5-(1-azido-2-haloethyl)uracil were synthesized and evaluated for their biological activity in cell culture. 1-[4-Hydroxy-3-(hydroxymethyl)-1-butyl]-5-(1-azido-2-chloroethyl)uracil (12) was the most effective antiviral agent in the in vitro assays against DHBV (EC(50) = 0.31-1.55 microM) and HCMV (EC(50) = 3.1 microM). None of the compounds investigated showed any detectable toxicity to several stationary and proliferating host cells.
Inhibitory effects of small-molecule CCR5 antagonists on human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope-mediated membrane fusion and viral replication.	We established a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope (Env)-mediated membrane fusion assay and examined the small-molecule CCR5 antagonist TAK-779 and its derivatives for their inhibitory effects on HIV-1 Env-mediated membrane fusion and viral replication. The membrane fusion assay is based on HIV-1 long terminal repeat-directed beta-D-galactosidase reporter gene expression in CD4- and CCR5-expressed HeLa (MAGI-CCR5) cells after cocultivation with effector 293T cells expressing HIV-1 Env. Inhibition of HIV-1 replication was also determined in MAGI-CCR5 cells infected with the corresponding cell-free HIV-1. TAK-779 effectively suppressed R5 HIV-1 (strain JR-FL) Env-mediated membrane fusion as well as viral replication. Its 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) for membrane fusion and viral replication were 0.87 +/- 0.11 and 1.4 +/- 0.1 nM, respectively. These values corresponded well to the IC(50) for (125)I-RANTES (regulated on activation, T cell expressed, and secreted) binding to CCR5 (1.4 nM). The inhibitory effects of 18 TAK-779 derivatives on membrane fusion differed from one compound to another. However, there was a close correlation among their inhibitory effects on membrane fusion, viral replication, and RANTES binding. The correlation coefficient between their IC(50)s for membrane fusion and viral replication was 0.881. Furthermore, since this assay depends on Env expressed in the effector cells, it is also applicable to the evaluation of CXCR4 antagonists. These results indicate that the HIV-1 Env-mediated membrane fusion assay is a useful tool for the evaluation of entry inhibitors.
Protection of T cells from radiation-induced apoptosis by Cepharanthin.	Cepharanthin (CE) is a medicine that contains several biscoclaurine alkaloids. We examined the effects of CE on radiation-induced T cell apoptosis. Radiation induced apoptosis on T cells in a dose-dependent manner, while CE inhibited radiation-induced apoptosis. CE also attenuated the cytotoxic effects of radiation on the proliferative response of T cells. CE inhibited not only the loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential but also the activation of caspase 3 in irradiated T cells. Radiation plus CE induced the up-regulation of Bax and the down-regulation of Bcl-2 in T cells in comparison with radiation alone. These results suggest that CE inhibits the signal transduction pathway of apoptosis induced by radiation, regardless of the expression of Bcl-2 or Bax.
Effects of azoles on human acute myelogenous leukemia blasts and T lymphocytes derived from acute leukemia patients with chemotherapy-induced cytopenia.	The effects of azoles (fluconazole, ketoconazole, miconazole, itraconazole) on human acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) blasts and T lymphocytes were studied in vitro. All the azoles altered spontaneous proliferation, cytokine-dependent proliferation and constitutive cytokine secretion by native AML blasts for a subset of patients, and all the drugs then had divergent effects. All four drugs also affected the responsiveness (cytokine-dependent and mitogen-stimulated proliferation, cytokine release) of clonogenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells derived from acute leukemia patients with chemotherapy-induced cytopenia. However, the T cell effects were also divergent and dependent on differences between various azoles, AML accessory cells and mitogenic activation signals. These drug effects may have a clinical relevance in acute leukemia patients receiving intensive chemotherapy together with azoles as prophylaxis or treatment for fungal infections: (i) effects on AML blasts may influence their susceptibility to drug-induced apoptosis; and (ii) effects on T cells may alter effector functions that mediate additional antileukemic effects in patients receiving intensive chemotherapy.
Therapeutic aspects of tolerance.	The immune system is naturally unresponsive to 'self' antigens. Improved knowledge of mechanisms underlying self tolerance is giving rise to a new generation of immunosuppressive agents, that can exploit these mechanisms and so reduce the nature and level of medication that needs to be given long-term to control diseases where the immune system does harm.
Exercise-induced changes to in vitro T-lymphocyte mitogen responses using CFSE.	Carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinamidyl ester (CFSE) labeling of lymphocyte populations can provide unique insights into cell function at rest and with exercise, due to its ability to quantify cell division on an individual cell basis. This study aimed to characterize the effect of acute, intense exercise on T-lymphocyte function. Well-trained endurance runners completed 60 min of treadmill running at 95% of individual anaerobic threshold. Blood samples were collected before exercise; after 30 and 60 min of exercise; and after 30, 60, and 90 min of recovery. Isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells were labeled with CFSE and cultured with or without mitogen (phytohemagglutinin). After culture, cell suspensions were labeled with CD3 (allophycocyanin) and CD8 (phycoerythrin), and expansion rates and cell death rates were calculated for each sample, as well as mitosis rates for each cell generation. Exercise was associated with a 60% decrease in cell expansion in both CD4 and CD8 cell types from before exercise to midexercise (P < 0.05). The significant decrease in expansion rate in the midexercise samples for both cell types was mirrored by a 65% increase in cell death (P < 0.05) in both cell types at that sample point. Exercise had no effect on the mitosis rate of either CD4 or CD8 cells in any cell generation (generations 0-3). This study indicates that 1 h of intense exercise affects in vitro T-lymphocyte function. These data suggest, for the first time, that exercise decreases cell expansion rate via an increase in cell death of both CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes, rather than a decrease in mitosis.
Expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-3 beta/CCL19 in pulmonary sarcoidosis.	In this study, messenger RNA (mRNA) expression for novel T lymphocyte chemoattractants, leukotactin-1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-3 alpha and MIP-3 beta was investigated in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cells from patients with sarcoidosis, a T cell-mediated disease with typical CD4+ lymphocyte alveolitis. Of these three chemokines, only MIP-3 beta mRNA was upregulated in sarcoidosis, and therefore, protein levels of this chemokine, its pharmacologic regulation, and association with disease clinical course were explored. MIP-3 beta protein concentrations were elevated in BALF from sarcoid patients compared with control subjects (p = 0.001) and in patients with chest X-ray stage II chemokine protein levels were increased compared with stage I (p = 0.003). MIP-3 beta protein was associated predominantly with alveolar macrophages and correlated with BALF lymphocytes and T cell subsets. mRNA expression for the MIP-3 beta receptor, CC chemokine receptor 7, was increased in sarcoidosis and correlated with MIP-3 beta protein levels. MIP-3 beta mRNA and protein expression in BALF cells was suppressed by dexamethasone and cyclosporine A in vitro. In conclusion, MIP-3 beta is implicated in T lymphocyte recruitment in sarcoidosis, is associated with disease progression, and is downregulated by drugs used for sarcoidosis treatment. This novel chemokine, therefore, represents a candidate for studies of sarcoidosis pathobiologic mechanisms.
Defining the involvement of p38alpha MAPK in the production of anti- and proinflammatory cytokines using an SB 203580-resistant form of the kinase.	Despite its lack of specificity, the inhibitor SB 203580 has been widely used to implicate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in the synthesis of many cytokines. Here we show unequivocally that the production of interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) requires p38 MAPK activity by demonstrating that the inhibitory effects of SB 203580 were reversed by expression of an SB 203580-resistant form of p38alpha (SBR-p38alpha) that fails to bind to SB 203580. This strategy established the requirement for p38 activity for the lipopolysaccharide-stimulated production of IL-10, IL-1beta, and IL-6 by the monocytic cell WEHI 274 and the production of IL-6 and TNFalpha stimulated by ligation of the Fc-gamma receptor of the mast cell MC/9. Expression of SBR-p38alpha in primary macrophages abrogated the ability of SB 203580 to inhibit the lipopolysaccharide-stimulated production of TNFalpha but not of IL-10. Expression of SBR-p38alpha in primary T lymphocytes abrogated the ability of SB 203580 to inhibit the production of interferon-gamma induced by co-ligation of CD3 and CD28 but not the production of interferon-gamma or IL-10 induced by IL-12. These results suggest that the levels of p38 MAPK activity required for maximal cytokine production vary with different cytokines and stimuli.
Suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 regulates signaling in response to interleukin-2 and other gamma c-dependent cytokines in peripheral T cells.	Suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS-1) is an essential regulator of cytokine signaling. SOCS-1-/- mice die before weaning with a complex disease characterized by fatty degeneration and necrosis of the liver. This disease is mediated by interferon (IFN) gamma as neonatal mortality fails to occur in SOCS-1-/-IFNgamma-/- mice. However, the immune system of healthy SOCS-1-/-IFNgamma-/- mice is dysregulated with a reduced ratio of CD4:CD8 T cells and increases in some aspects of T cell activation. SOCS-1-/-IFNgamma-/- mice also die before their wild type and IFNgamma-/- counterparts with a range of inflammatory conditions including pneumonia, gut infiltration, and skin ulceration, suggesting that SOCS-1 controls not only IFNgamma signaling, but also other immunoregulatory factors. This study shows that T cells from SOCS-1-deficient mice display hypersensitivity to cytokines that act through the gammac receptor. SOCS-1 expression is induced by interleukin (IL) 2, IL-4, IL-7, and IL-15, and SOCS-1-deficient T cells show increased proliferation and prolonged survival in response to IL-2 and IL-4. Furthermore, IL-2 induced increased STAT5 phosphorylation and CD44 expression in SOCS-1-deficient T cells compared with controls. Hypersensitivity to gammac-dependent cytokines may contribute to abnormal T cell function, as well as the pathology observed in mice lacking SOCS-1.
Characterization of sulfamethoxazole and sulfamethoxazole metabolite-specific T-cell responses in animals and humans.	Sulfamethoxazole (SMX) is associated with hypersensitivity reactions. Identification of drug-specific lymphocytes from hypersensitive patients suggests involvement of the immune system. Lymphocytes from humans recognize SMX and nitroso-SMX (SMX-NO), whereas cells from sensitized rats recognize only SMX-NO. In this investigation, we study the nature of SMX-specific T cells in four species. Male rats, mice, and rabbits were immunized with SMX (50 mg kg-1) or SMX-NO (1 mg kg-1). Lymphocytes and/or splenocytes were isolated and incubated with SMX, SMX-hydroxylamine or SMX-NO and proliferation were measured. Lymphocytes were also isolated from SMX-hypersensitive patients (n = 3) and drug-specific proliferation was measured. In addition, rabbits were bled fortnightly for 4 months to determine whether SMX-NO-specific T cells cross-react with SMX. To confirm that SMX-NO responses were due to covalent binding and not cross-reactivity, cells were pulsed with SMX-NO and/or coincubated with glutathione. Splenocytes from mice, rats, and rabbits proliferated when stimulated with SMX-NO, but not SMX. A 2-h pulse with SMX-NO was sufficient for proliferation, whereas cells coincubated with SMX-NO and glutathione did not proliferate. Rabbit lymphocytes proliferated in the presence of SMX-NO and SMX-hydroxylamine, but not SMX. SMX-hydroxylamine was converted to SMX-NO in culture. The SMXNO-specific response of rabbit lymphocytes was maintained for at least 4 months and the cells did not cross-react with SMX. Human lymphocytes from hypersensitive patients proliferated in the presence of SMX and both metabolites. These results highlight important differences in T-cell recognition of drug (metabolite) antigens in animals that have been sensitized against a drug metabolite and patients with hypersensitivity to the drug.
Ubiquitin pathway proteins influence the mechanism of action of the novel immunosuppressive drug FTY720 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	FTY720 is an immunosuppressive drug in clinical development for transplant graft protection in humans. This agent is of particular interest because, unlike currently available regimes, it acts to sequester lymphocytes without causing cytotoxicity or blocking differentiation and growth potential. In an effort to elucidate the mechanism of action of FTY720, and identify its downstream effectors, we have screened genomic libraries and spontaneous mutants of the model system Saccharomyces cerevisiae for resistance to FTY720. We identified several proteins and pathways as being involved in the mechanism of action of FTY720. We show specifically that the two amino acid transporters TAT1 and TAT2, the two ubiquitin proteases UBP5 and UBP11, and the heat shock protein CAJ1 confer growth resistance to FTY720 when overexpressed. Another amino acid transporter, GNP1, and the ubiquitin structural gene UBI4 as well as the ubiquitin ligase RSP5, and its binding protein BUL1 confer growth resistance in a mutated form. Supporting the importance of amino acid transport in the growth resistance phenotype of S. cerevisiae to the immunosuppressive agent FTY720, a prototrophic strain was more resistant to FTY720 than the isogenic auxotroph. To further explore these results, the effects on amino acid uptake and protein degradation were measured in the presence of FTY720. Due to the high conservation of these proteins and pathways between yeast and humans, these results may provide valuable insights into the mechanism of action of FTY720 in lymphocyte sequestration in humans.
TRPC3 mediates T-cell receptor-dependent calcium entry in human T-lymphocytes.	Stimulation of the T-cell receptor (TCR) activates Ca2+ entry across the plasma membrane, which is a key triggering event for the T-cell-associated immune response. We show that TRPC3 channels are important for the TCR-dependent Ca2+ entry pathway. The TRPC3 gene was found to be damaged in human T-cell mutants defective in Ca2+ influx. Mutations of the TRPC3 gene were accompanied by changes of TRPC3 gene expression. Introduction of the complete human TRPC3 cDNA into those mutants rescued Ca2+ currents as well as TCR-dependent Ca2+ signals. Our data provide the initial step toward understanding the molecular nature of endogenous Ca2+ channels participating in T-cell activation and put forward TRPC3 as a new target for modulating the immune response.
Combination of radiation and vaccination with autologous tumor cells expressing IL-2, IFN-gamma and GM-CSF for treatment of murine renal carcinoma.	We previously showed, in a murine renal cell carcinoma (RCC) model, that lung irradiation plus vaccination with autologous tumor cells producing recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (Renca/cytokine) reduces the number of lung metastases by over 90%. The present study investigates the host cellular mechanisms mediating this anti-tumor activity.
Suppression of T cell signaling by polyunsaturated fatty acids: selectivity in inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase and nuclear factor activation.	Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are known to suppress inflammatory and autoimmune responses and, therefore, clinical applications of PUFAs as immunomodulatory substances are extensively studied. PUFAs are known to inhibit T cell responses, but with respect to TCR/CD3-mediated signal transduction only a block in CD3-induced phospholipase Cgamma1/calcium signaling has been shown so far. In this study, we investigated PUFA-mediated changes in downstream T cell signal transduction. We show that among the mitogen-activated protein kinase families activation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, but not phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/-2 or p38 is inhibited. CD3/CD28-induced activity of NF-AT was markedly reduced by PUFA treatment, while activation of other nuclear receptors (AP-1 and NF-kappaB) remained unaltered. Furthermore, IL-2 promoter activity, IL-2 and IL-13 mRNA levels, IL-2 secretion, and IL-2R alpha-chain expression were significantly diminished by PUFA treatment, whereas the expression of IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-10, and CD69 remained essentially unaffected by PUFAs. In conclusion, PUFA treatment of T cells inhibits selectively c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase and NF-AT activation, resulting in diminished production of IL-2 and IL-13.
Aspirin-triggered lipoxin A4 and B4 analogs block extracellular signal-regulated kinase-dependent TNF-alpha secretion from human T cells.	Lipoxins (LX) and their aspirin-triggered 15-epimer endogenous isoforms are endogenous anti-inflammatory and pro-resolution eicosanoids. In this study, we examined the impact of LX and aspirin-triggered LXA(4)-stable analogs (ATLa) on human T cell functions. 15-epi-16-(p-fluoro)phenoxy-LXA(4) (ATLa(1)) blocked the secretion of TNF-alpha from human PBMC after stimulation by anti-CD3 Abs, with the IC(50) value of approximately 0.05 nM. A similar action was also exerted by the native aspirin-triggered 15-epi-LXA(4), a new 15-epi-16-(p-trifluoro)phenoxy-LXA(4) analog (ATLa(2)), as well as LXB(4), and its analog 5-(R/S)-methyl-LXB(4). The LXA(4) receptor (ALX) is expressed in peripheral blood T cells and mediates the inhibition of TNF-alpha secretion from activated T cells by ATLa(1). This action was accomplished by inhibition of the anti-CD3-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, which is essential for TNF-alpha secretion from anti-CD3-activated T cells. These results demonstrate novel roles for LX and aspirin-triggered LX in the regulation of T cell-mediated responses relevant in inflammation and its resolution. Moreover, they provide potential counterregulatory signals in communication(s) between the innate and acquired immune systems.
Compartmentalisation between gut and lung mucosae in a model of secondary immunodeficiency: effect of thymomodulin.	Compartmentalisation of mucosal immune response seems to be the result mainly of the preferential migration of activated cells back to their inductive sites. The aim of this report was to demonstrate, in a model of secondary immunodeficiency in Wistar rats (severely protein deprived at weaning and refed with casein 20%; group R21), that the oral administration of Thymomodulin (group:R21TmB) has different effects on gut and BALT (Bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue). Tissue sections (5 mu) were studied by immunohistochemistry 1). The oral administration of Thymomodulin restores only in gut Lamina propria (LP) the IgA B and CD4 T cell populations to control levels. The CD8a and CD25 subpopulations do not vary in gut as they return to control levels when refed with 20% casein diet. All the populations mentioned above remained decreased even after receiving Thymomodulin by the oral route. However, the same behaviour was observed for the TCR delta T cells that were decreased and return to normal levels in both mucosae by the effect of the immunomodulator; 2) when studying the iIEL (intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes) CD8 alpha, CD25 and TCR gamma delta T cells, that were increased in R21, return to control levels in R21TmB. In BALT intraepithelium CD8 alpha and CD25 T cells remained decreased, while only TCR gamma delta T cells (increased in R21) return to control values.
Molecular design, synthesis, and structure-Activity relationships leading to the potent and selective p56(lck) inhibitor BMS-243117.	A series of structurally novel benzothiazole based small molecule inhibitors of p56(lck) were prepared to elucidate their structure-activity relationships (SARs), selectivity and cell activity in the T-cell proliferation assay. BMS-243117 (compound 2) is identified as a potent, and selective Lck inhibitor with good cellular activity (IC(50)=1.1 microM) against T-cell proliferation.
Vav1-deficient mice are resistant to MOG-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis due to impaired antigen priming.	Mice that lack the guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Vav1 exhibit particular defects in antigen-triggered T cell activation but may have an autoreactive T cell repertoire due to impaired intra-thymic negative selection. MOG(35-55)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was used to test the susceptibility of Vav1(-/-) mice to organ-specific autoimmunity. Vav1(-/-) animals were found to be resistant to MOG(35-55)-EAE since the priming and in vivo expansion of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-specific T cells was inefficient despite fully functional antigen presentation. Protection from cell-mediated autoimmunity was not due to a Th2 bias, to the lack of IL-2 or a failure of Vav1(-/-) T cells in terms of chemotactic mobility.
Dynamics of immune cell trafficking in interferon-beta treated multiple sclerosis patients.	To investigate the effects of interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta-1a) on the trafficking of cell populations in peripheral blood cells of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.
Microarray analysis identifies interferon beta-regulated genes in multiple sclerosis.	The molecular mechanisms for the interferon beta (IFNbeta) treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) remain to be characterized. Using cDNA microarray technology, we have compared the gene expression profile of T and non-T cells derived from relapsing-remitting MS before and after treatment with IFNbeta-1b. IFNbeta treatment significantly altered expression of 21 genes out of 1263 at 3 and 6 months after treatment. These genes included nine with IFN-responsive promoter elements. Whereas there was no change in Th1 or Th2 marker genes, some of the changes were unexpected but coincided with the beneficial effect of IFNbeta in MS.
Diterpenoid and phenolic glycosides from the roots of Rhododendron molle.	Two new grayanane diterpenoid glucosides, rhodomosides A (1), B (2) and two new phenolic glycosides 3, 4 together with a known glucosyringic acid (5) were isolated from the roots of Rhododendron molle G. Don (Ericaceae). Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral analysis. Compounds 3, 4 and 5 were found to inhibit the proliferation of murine B lymphocytes in vitro, while compound 3 also showed stimulatory activity on the proliferation of murine T lymphocytes in vitro.
Differential recruitment of caspase 8 to cFlip confers sensitivity or resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis in a subset of familial lymphoma patients.	Resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis (FMA) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hematologic malignancies. Recently, a collaborative study showed that germline Fas mutations represent a genetic risk factor for the development of Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Here, we report that transformed B cell lines from familial lymphoma patients show a range of sensitivity to Fas-mediated apoptosis with lymphocytes from two patients with a marked resistance to Fas-, but not p53-mediated cell death. Fas resistance in these cells was associated with reduced recruitment of the initiator caspase 8 compared to cFlip, an inhibitor of apoptosis, to the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC). A decreased ratio of caspase 8 to cFlip in total cell extracts as well as in the DISC was associated with a profound disturbance of the Fas signaling cascade. We propose here that the relative reduction in caspase 8 to cFlip in the Fas DISC confers a survival advantage to lymphocytes and predisposes to the development of malignancy in some familial lymphoma patients.
Drug targeting by long-circulating liposomal glucocorticosteroids increases therapeutic efficacy in a model of multiple sclerosis.	High-dose glucocorticosteroid hormones are a mainstay in the treatment of relapses in multiple sclerosis. We searched for a way to deliver ultra high doses of glucocorticosteroids to the CNS of rats with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) using a novel formulation of polyethylene glycol (PEG)-coated long-circulating liposomes encapsulating prednisolone (predni solone liposomes, PL). 3H-labelled PL showed selective targeting to the inflamed CNS, where up to 4.5-fold higher radioactivity was achieved than in healthy control animals. HPLC revealed much higher and more persistent levels of prednisolone in spinal cord after PL compared with an equal dose of free prednisolone. Gold-labelled liposomes could be detected in the target tissue, mostly taken up by macrophages (Mphi), microglial cells and astrocytes. Blood-brain barrier disruption was greatly reduced by 10 mg/kg PL, which was superior to a 5-fold higher dose of free methylprednisolone (MP). PL was also superior to MP in diminishing T-cell infiltration by induction of T-cell apoptosis in spinal cord. Mphi infiltration was clearly decreased only by PL. The percentage of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-positive T cells or Mphi was greatly reduced by PL and by MP. No adverse effects on glial cells were detected. A single injection of PL clearly ameliorated the course of adoptive transfer EAE and EAE induced by immunization. In conclusion, PL is a highly effective drug in treatment of EAE, and is superior to a 5-fold higher dose of free MP, possibly by means of drug targeting. These findings may have implications for future therapy of autoimmune disorders such as multiple sclerosis.
Infliximab but not etanercept induces apoptosis in lamina propria T-lymphocytes from patients with Crohn's disease.	Steroid-refractory Crohn's disease responds to therapy with the chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antibody infliximab. Etanercept, a recombinant TNF receptor/immunoglobulin G fusion protein, is highly effective in rheumatoid arthritis but not in Crohn's disease. Because both infliximab and etanercept are TNF-alpha-neutralizing drugs, we investigated the differences in TNF-alpha-neutralizing capacity and human lymphocyte binding and apoptosis-inducing capacity of both molecules.
Galectin-1-mediated apoptosis in mycosis fungoides: the roles of CD7 and cell surface glycosylation.	Sezary cells, the malignant T cells in mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome, resist a variety of apoptosis-inducing agents, a feature that contributes to the poor response to therapy in mycosis fungoides. Galectin-1 is a mammalian lectin that triggers T cell apoptosis. For T cells to be susceptible to galectin-1-induced apoptosis, the T cells must express specific glycoprotein receptors, such as CD7, that bear the specific oligosaccharides recognized by galectin-1. Because Sezary cells are characteristically CD7(-), lack of CD7 expression has been proposed to render Sezary cells resistant to galectin-1-induced death. However, the role played by aberrant cell surface glycosylation in resistance of Sezary cells to galectin-1 has not been examined. In this study, we demonstrated abundant galectin-1 in mycosis fungoides skin lesions, indicating that Sezary cells are exposed to galectin-1 in vivo. To determine specific characteristics of Sezary cells that contribute to galectin-1 resistance, we assessed CD7 expression and cell surface glycosylation of Sezary cells in mycosis fungoides lesions and of four Sezary T cell lines. Sezary cells in primary lesions and Sezary T cell lines demonstrated a characteristic "glycotype" with sialylated core 1 O-glycans that promote galectin-1 resistance. Expression of CD7 was necessary but not sufficient for galectin-1-induced death of Sezary cell lines. In addition, CD7(-) Sezary cell lines, and Sezary cells within mycosis fungoides lesions, expressed galectin-1, whereas CD7-positive Sezary cell lines did not express galectin-1. We propose that both loss of CD7 expression and altered cellular glycosylation contribute to apoptosis resistance of malignant T cells in mycosis fungoides.
Dopamine inhibits cytokine release and expression of tyrosine kinases, Lck and Fyn in activated T cells.	The effect of dopamine (DA) on the release of cytokines from activated human T cells has been evaluated to analyze the mechanism by which physiological concentration of dopamine inhibits T cell proliferation. Dopamine inhibited anti-CD3 mAb-induced release of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines, IL2, IFN-gamma and IL4 from T cells by specific class of dopamine receptors. This action of dopamine was mediated by a new mechanism. Dopamine suppressed non-receptor tyrosine kinases, Lck and Fyn expression which are the initial and pivotal signaling steps in T cell receptor (TCR) mediated different down stream signaling cascades, leading to cytokine release and subsequent clonal expansion of these immune effector cells.
Suppression of early T-cell-receptor-triggered cellular activation by the Janus kinase 3 inhibitor WHI-P-154.	Therapeutic targeting of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) has received particular attention, because it is associated with the common gamma signaling of cytokine receptors and thus vitally influences T-cell growth and survival. Recent evidence, however, indicates a critical role for JAK3 in signaling linked to the T-cell antigen receptor.
Heterologous immunity provides a potent barrier to transplantation tolerance.	Many strategies have been proposed to induce tolerance to transplanted tissue in rodents; however, few if any have shown equal efficacy when tested in nonhuman primate transplant models. We hypothesized that a critical distinction between specific pathogen-free mice and nonhuman primates or human patients is their acquired immune history. Here, we show that a heterologous immune response--specifically, virally induced alloreactive memory--is a potent barrier to tolerance induction. A critical threshold of memory T cells is needed to promote rejection, and CD8(+) "central" memory T cells are primarily responsible. Finally, treatment with deoxyspergualin, an inhibitor of NF-kappa B translocation, together with costimulation blockade, synergistically impairs memory T cell activation and promotes antigen-specific tolerance of memory. These data offer a potential explanation for the difficulty encountered when inducing tolerance in nonhuman primates and human patients and provide insight into the signaling pathways essential for memory T cell activation and function.
T-cells mediate an inhibitory effect of interleukin-4 on osteoclastogenesis.	IL-4 is an important cytokine that can influence bone. We identified two distinct actions of IL-4 to inhibit osteoclast formation: one direct on osteoclast progenitors and the second through the production of a novel T-cell surface-associated molecule(s). These data show a new link between the immune system and bone. The Th2 cytokine interleukin (IL)-4 inhibits osteoclast formation in vitro but also acts on other cell types found in bone, including T-cells and macrophages. Because some osteoclastogenesis inhibitors (e.g., IL-12) act indirectly through T-cells, we investigated IL-4 action on osteoclastogenesis in the presence of T-cells. Osteoclast formation from murine spleen cells treated with RANKL and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) was blocked by IL-4 even when spleen cells were depleted of T-cells (Thy 1.2+) and/or B-cells (B220+). Also, IL-4 inhibited osteoclastogenesis in RANKL/M-CSF-stimulated adherent spleen cells, Rag1 -/- (lymphocyte-deficient) spleen cells, and bone marrow macrophages, indicating an action on myelomonocytic cells to block osteoclastogenesis. In contrast, IL-4 did not inhibit osteoclastogenesis in cells from IL-4 receptor null mice (IL-4R -/-). However, when wildtype T-cells were added to IL-4R -/- spleen cell cultures, IL-4 inhibited osteoclast formation, indicating a T-cell-dependent action. Osteoclast formation in RANKL-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells was not inhibited by IL-4 unless T-cells were added to the culture. Separation of RAW 264.7 cells and T-cells by semipermeable membrane ablated this action of IL-4, suggesting the induction of a membrane-associated osteoclastogenesis inhibitor. However, membrane-bound inhibitors thymic shared antigen-1 (TSA-1) and osteoclast inhibitory lectin (OCIL) were not regulated by IL-4. In summary, at least two mechanisms of IL-4 -mediated osteoclastogenesis inhibition exist, including a direct action on myelomonocytic progenitors (from which osteoclasts derive) and an indirect action through T-cells that may involve novel anti-osteoclastic factors.
CD69 expression induced by thapsigargin, phorbol ester and ouabain on thymocytes is dependent on external Ca2+ entry.	In the present work murine thymocytes exposed to Thapsigargin (TG 10, 20 and 50 nM), Phorbol-12,13,20-triacetate (TPA16 nM) and Ouabain (OUA100 nM) exhibited an increased expression of CD69, a molecule related to cellular activation and associated to Ca(++) influx in other systems. The kinetics of CD69 appearance depended on the stimuli and dose used. TG 50 nM induced an increased expression by 6 h whereas with lower doses (10 and 20 nM) an increase was detected at 18 h. TPA maximal increase was evident at 6 h. OUA lead to an observable increase at 18 h. However, in the case of TPA or TG the presence of the stimuli was only necessary for the first 2 h of culture, whereas OUA needed to be present during the whole assay. It was also demonstrated that Ca(++) influx was an essential feature, as EGTA diminished or abolished CD69 increased expression. Nevertheless, EGTA was only capable of this effect when present at the time of the stimuli. No correlation of CD69 expression with thymocyte death was observed. Similarly, the agents under study did not promote the maturation from double-positive into single-positive thymocytes. TPA and Thapsigargin were capable of decreasing the level of CD4 molecules on the cell surface, probably due to the loss of these molecules. OUA, on the other hand, did not modify CD4/CD8 expression on these cells.
Additive inhibition of dendritic cell allostimulatory capacity by alcohol and hepatitis C is not restored by DC maturation and involves abnormal IL-10 and IL-2 induction.	Excessive alcohol use results in impaired immunity, and it is associated with increased incidence and progression of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Here we investigated the effects of HCV infection and alcohol on myeloid dendritic cells (DC) that are critical in antiviral immunity.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin B induces anergy to conventional peptide in memory T cells.	Microbial superantigens can alter host immunity through aberrant activation and subsequent anergy of responding naive T cells. We show here that the superantigen, staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), directly induces tolerance in memory CD4 T cells. Murine naive and memory CD4(+) T cells were labeled with the fluorescent dye CFSE and the cells were exposed to SEB before they were cultured with specific peptide antigen. Memory, but not naive, T cells became anergic and did not respond to their cognate peptide antigen. The extent and duration of T cell receptor (TCR) clustering was similar to promote naive T cell activation and memory T cell anergy, suggesting similar TCR-SEB interactions led to distinct intracellular signaling processes in the two cell types. Like SEB, soluble anti-CD3 mAb does not stimulate memory cell proliferation. However, unlike SEB, soluble anti-CD3 mAbs did not induce anergy to cognate peptide. Anergy was directly visualized in vivo. CD4(+) memory T cells were identified in mice that had been administered SEB. The cells failed to proliferate in response to subsequent immunization with their cognate recall antigen. Hence, one mode of pathogen survival is the modulation of host immunity through selective elimination of memory T cell responses.
The cytotoxicity of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. coreanensis A1519 strain against the human leukemic T cell.	A novel cytotoxic protein was isolated from the crystal produced by Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. coreanensis A1519 strain. Upon treatment of the crystal proteins by proteinase K, the significant cytotoxicity toward the leukemic T cell, MOLT-4, was exhibited. The microscopic observation indicated that the cell death was accompanied by no extensive rupture of the cell membrane. It was, therefore, suggested that the cell death of MOLT-4 was induced through a mechanism other than the colloid-osmotic swelling and cell lysis as caused by hitherto known B. thuringiensis crystal proteins. The 29-kDa polypeptide proved to be an active component of the proteinase K-digested A1519 crystal proteins. EC(50) of the purified 29-kDa polypeptide was 0.078 microg/ml. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the 29-kDa polypeptide shared no significant homology with all the known proteins, suggesting that this polypeptide belong to a new family of B. thuringiensis crystal proteins. In the ligand blotting analysis, specific binding proteins for the 29-kDa polypeptide were detected from the cell membrane of MOLT-4.
Insulin-like growth factor-I enhances lymphoid and myeloid reconstitution after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Prolonged immunodeficiency after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (allo BMT) results in significant morbidity and mortality from infection. Previous studies in murine syngeneic BMT models have demonstrated that posttransplantation insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I administration could enhance immune reconstitution.
Beta-amyloid peptide-induced blood-brain barrier disruption facilitates T-cell entry into the rat brain.	Activated T-lymphocytes can migrate through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and are able to invade the central nervous system (CNS). In the present study, we investigated whether disruption of the BBB leads to enhanced T-cell migration into the CNS. Amyloid-beta peptide 25-35 (A beta) or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) were administered into the right common carotid artery of adult male Wistar rats. The agents were administered either alone, or were followed by a cell suspension of exogenously activated T-cells. Rats of other groups received activated or non-stimulated T-lymphocytes only. Sagittal brain sections were analyzed with immunohistochemistry of CD3 to reveal the presence of T-lymphocytes within the CNS parenchyma. Administration of activated T-cells alone led to T-cell migration into the brain. Infusion of either substances (A beta or TNFalpha) resulted in T-cell invasion of the CNS even when no exogenous T-cells were added. Infusion of either of the agents together with T-lymphocytes generated a more intense T-lymphocyte migration than in the other groups. Electron microscopic analysis and Evans-blue extravasation studies confirmed parallel disruption of the BBB. Our study demonstrates that A beta and TNFalpha induce enhanced T-lymphocyte migration towards the brain. This effect may be attributed at least partly to dysfunctioning of the BBB, but other mechanisms are also possible.
Novel biological immunotherapies for psoriasis.	Psoriasis is a common skin disease affecting 1 - 3% of the white population. Although its physiopathogenesis still remains poorly understood, recent data suggest a key role played by memory T cells in the genesis of skin and joint lesions. Recent developments in the understanding of cellular mechanisms underlying psoriasis and in biotechnologies have given rise to a generation of biological agents that have shown clinical efficacy in treating psoriasis. These agents, including chimeric antibodies, fusion proteins and recombinant interleukins, specifically target the activated memory T cells directly involved in the development of psoriasis lesions and inhibit their action either directly or through inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Compared with conventional systemic treatments, they show a better safety profile and allow durable remissions. Some of these agents were very recently marketed for the treatment of psoriasis and hopefully others will follow. These biologicals have opened a new era for the management of this disease; they are reviewed in this article, based on data available in the literature.
Differential effects of arsenic on intracellular free calcium levels and the proliferative response of murine mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes.	This study examined the effects of sodium arsenite treatment on free [Ca(2+)]i and cell death in mitogen-activated murine lymphocytes. The main findings of this study were that simultaneous sodium arsenite treatment inhibited PHA- but not Con A-induced T cell proliferation, induced a higher increase in free [Ca(2+)]i and an early increase in the proportion of dead cells in PHA than in Con A activated cells. Sodium arsenite pre-treatment reduced both PHA- and Con A-induced T-cell proliferation. Phorbol myristate ester (PMA) did not prevent the inhibitory effects of both sodium arsenite treatments, suggesting that sodium arsenite did not significantly decreased PKC activation or that its effects occurred on events parallel to PKC activation. Both PHA and Con A increased free [Ca(2+)]i after stimulation, yet the effect was more pronounced in mitogen-activated cells simultaneously treated with sodium arsenite and particularly in those activated with PHA. The increase in free [Ca(2+)]i was in agreement with the early cell death induced by sodium arsenite in PHA-activated cells, a finding consistent with the inhibitory effects on PHA-induced proliferation. Sodium arsenite-induced cell death occurred faster in PHA-activated cells. Further studies are needed to ascertain the relationships between the effects of sodium arsenite on free [Ca(2+)]i levels and the type of cell death induced by sodium arsenite and their relevance for the proliferative response of T cells.
Use of mixed lymphocyte reaction to identify subimmunosuppressive FK-506 levels in mice.	The immunosuppressive agent FK-506 has a well-described neuroregenerative effect that is mediated by a mechanism independent of calcineurin inhibition. FK-506 levels that fall below the threshold for immunosuppression could therefore potentially enhance nerve regeneration while minimizing toxicity. The purpose of this study was to characterize the dose-dependent effects of FK506 on T-cell proliferation, and establish a subimmunosuppressive dosing regimen for FK-506 in mice. Forty BALB/cJ mice were randomized to four groups corresponding to 0, 0.25, 0.5, or 1.0 mg/kg/day doses of FK-506. Ten days postoperatively, animals were sacrificed, and mixed lymphocyte reaction assays were performed to quantify the immune response to nerve allografts. Mice receiving 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg/day of FK-506 exhibited a robust T-cell proliferation response, with stimulation indices approaching those of untreated animals. Mice treated with 1.0 mg/kg/day of FK-506 demonstrated significantly decreased T-cell proliferation. These results establish 0.5 mg/kg/day as an upper limit for subimmunosuppressive FK-506 administration.
Interaction of soybean agglutinin with leukemic T-cells and its use for their in vitro separation from normal lymphocytes by lectin-affinity chromatography.	A procedure for separation of leukemic T-cells from normal lymphocytes, using lectin-affinity column chromatography, is described. CNBr-activated Sepharose 6MB was used as a non-mobile phase. The gel was covalently coupled with soybean agglutinin (SBA), then served as an affinity probe for fractionation of mixture of normal lymphocytes and leukemic cells. Leukemic cell lines, derived from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Jurkat, MOLT-4, RPMI-8402), were tested. The elution of normal lymphocytes was carried out by PBS(-). The leukemic T-cells, interacting with SBA, were removed by N-acetyl-D-galactosamine or low-concentration acetic acid. The type and viability of the separated cell fractions were analyzed by flow cytometry and fluorescent microscopy, using adequate fluorescent antibodies. The interaction of leukemic T-cells with free SBA, as well as with SBA-conjugated Sepharose beads, was examined fluorimetrically and visualized by fluorescent microscopy, using FITC-SBA as a marker. The rate of cell elution on SBA-affinity column decreased in order: normal > leukemic T-cells. Both normal lymphocytes and leukemic T-cells were removed in a mixture from SBA-free Sepharose 6MB by PBS(-) and were not fractionated discretely. The leukemic T-cells specifically interacted with SBA as well as with SBA-affinity adsorbent. In contrast, the normal lymphocytes did not interact with free SBA as well as with SBA-conjugated Sepharose beads in the concentrations applied. The method potentially combines a discrete cell fractionation with manifestation of a specific target cytotoxicity of SBA against leukemic T-cells, without any influence on normal lymphocytes.
DNA damage in T- and B-lymphocytes and granulocytes in emission inspection and incineration workers exposed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.	In this study, we investigated by using comet assay the effects of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) as a major factor on DNA damage of workers exposed to exhaust fumes. Twenty-four workers from three automobile emission inspection companies, 28 workers from a waste incinerating company, and 43 matched, unexposed healthy subjects were enrolled in the study. The mean values of 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHP) in automobile emission inspection and waste incineration workers were 0.27+/-0.19 and 0.57+/-0.46 micromol/mol creatinine, respectively, and the mean values of 2-naphthol in automobile emission inspectors and waste incineration workers were 4.80+/-4.01 and 8.30+/-4.79 mol/mol creatinine, respectively. Significant difference in urinary metabolites, 1-hydroxypyrene and 2-naphthol was found between smokers and non-smokers in exposed groups and it may be due to the amounts of smoking cigarettes. In T-lymphocytes, DNA damage in control subjects, emission inspection workers and incineration workers were 1.42+/-0.22, 1.41+/-0.22 and 1.76+/-0.27, respectively. DNA damage of B-lymphocytes in the three groups showed the most significant differences of three cell types. The tail moments of the B-lymphocytes of control subjects, emission inspection and incineration workers were 1.40+/-0.27, 2.44+/-0.32 and 2.36+/-0.37, respectively. In granulocytes, DNA damage was also different, the tail moments being 2.72+/-0.59, 3.32+/-0.38 and 2.85+/-0.49, respectively. Although 1-OHP and 2-naphthol levels were statistically increased in smokers in workers exposed to PAHs, exposed smoking and non-smoking workers did not show any significantly difference in terms of Olive tail moments. Our results suggest that PAH causes single strand DNA breakage in human T- and B-lymphocytes, and granulocytes. A comparison of DNA damage in three groups showed that B-lymphocytes are useful target in the biomonitoring of human exposure.
Cyclic AMP inhibits translation of cyclin D3 in T lymphocytes at the level of elongation by inducing eEF2-phosphorylation.	The purpose of the present study was to understand the mechanism by which activated protein kinase A (PKA) leads to down-regulation of cyclin D3 in lymphocytes. By using Jurkat cells as a model system, we have been able to demonstrate that cyclin D3 is reduced at the level of translation by inhibition of elongation. One of the important factors involved in translational elongation is the eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2). eEF2 promotes translation in its unphosphorylated form, and we observed a rapid phosphorylation of the eEF2-protein upon forskolin treatment. When using specific inhibitors of the eEF2-kinase prior to forskolin treatment, we were able to inhibit the increased phosphorylation of eEF2. Furthermore, inhibition of eEF2-kinase prevented the forskolin-mediated down-regulation of cyclin D3. Taken together, it appears that activation of PKA in Jurkat cells reduces the expression of cyclin D3 at the level of translational elongation by increasing the phosphorylation of eEF2 and thereby inhibiting its activity.
In vitro immunomodulatory activity of ruthenium complexes.	We have explored the in vitro immunomodulatory effects of pure ruthenium red and a series of pyridine and imidazole substituted ruthenium complexes (RCs).
The value of preserving HIV-specific immune responses.	HIV-1 infection is characterised by persistent viraemia and a progressive decline in both number and function of CD4 T-helper lymphocytes. The inability to contain viral replication presumably results from the lack of an effective HIV-1-specific immune response observed in most HIV-infected individuals. The persistent viraemia and decline in the number and function of CD4 cells lead to a further loss of immunity to HIV-1 as well as to opportunistic pathogens. Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HARRT) has been shown to reconstitute pathogen-specific immune responses in a majority of subjects, with a dramatic drop in the morbidity and mortality caused by opportunistic infections. By contrast, HIV-1-specific immunity remains largely ineffective and most people with chronic HIV-1 infection cannot control viraemia after interruption of HARRT, indicating a need to develop new strategies to maintain and improve HIV-1-specific immunity. Here we review the relative role of CD4 T-helper cells in the immune response against HIV infection and their contribution to cell-mediated immune responses to other pathogens infecting people with AIDS. In addition, we discuss the concepts of: supervised treatment interruptions, therapeutic and preventive vaccination, optimisation of antigen presentation and T-cell priming by ex vivo stimulated and expanded dendritic cells.
Si-Ni-San, a traditional Chinese prescription, and its drug-pairs suppress contact sensitivity in mice via inhibition of the activity of metalloproteinases and adhesion of T lymphocytes.	In this paper, the effect of Si-Ni-San, a famous traditional Chinese prescription, on ear contact sensitivity was examined. Si-Ni-San significantly inhibited the ear swelling when administered during the induction phase of picryl-chloride-induced ear contact sensitivity in mice. The adhesion to type I collagen of isolated spleen cells was significantly decreased in the Si-Ni-San group, especially in the presence of protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate. The inhibition of adhesion was seen in purified T cells from the spleen, as well as in Jurkat cells. Furthermore, the adhesion to collagen involves the production of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9 in spleen cells, and the oral administration of Si-Ni-San remarkably reduced the matrix metalloproteinase production. Three drug-pairs composed in Si-Ni-San were used for comparison. The combination of Chaihu and Shaoyao showed a similar effect to Si-Ni-San, while Chaihu and Zhishi, and Shaoyao and Gancao only showed a tendency in most situations. These results suggest that Si-Ni-San may contribute to the treatment of immunologically related diseases by down-regulating the activation and function of T lymphocytes, especially the cell adhesion and matrix metalloproteinase production. Its effect is mainly displayed by the combination of Chaihu and Shaoyao.
STI571-resistant KT-1 cells are sensitive to interferon-alpha accompanied by the loss of T-cell protein tyrosine phosphatase and prolonged phosphorylation of Stat1.	The high incidence of acquired drug resistance to STI571 during treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients in blast crisis has become a problem. We studied the effects of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) on a novel STI571-resistant CML cell line and its molecular mechanisms in vitro.
Localization of T and B lymphocytes to the white pulp of the spleen is independent of L-, E-, and P-selectin.	T and B cell interactions are thought to be of prime importance in the generation of a humoral immune response. These interactions are thought to take place in the secondary lymphoid organs. The largest of which is the spleen. While the pathways involved in lymphocyte migration into other secondary lymphoid organs have been unraveled, very little is understood about T and B cell migration to the spleen. We report that adoptively transferred T lymphocytes appear more rapidly within the lymphoid compartment of the spleen than do B lymphocytes. Indeed, half of the transferred T lymphocytes in the spleen appear within the white pulp by 1.4 hours. B lymphocytes take nearly 4.3 hours to achieve the same level of accumulation. In addition, T lymphocyte arrival is fucoidan sensitive, while B cells are not affected by this polysaccharide. Finally, we show that neither L-, E-, or P-selectin appears to play a significant role in the accumulation of lymphocytes in the white pulp.)
Desloratadine inhibits allergen-induced airway inflammation and bronchial hyperresponsiveness and alters T-cell responses in murine models of asthma.	Histamine elicits many features of immediate hypersensitivity reactions. Recent evidence indicates that H1 receptors modulate immune responses to antigens. Desloratadine (DL), a new, long-acting, H1 receptor antagonist, has both a potent antihistaminic function and anti-inflammatory properties.
The design, synthesis and evaluation of novel HIV-1 protease inhibitors with high potency against PI-resistant viral strains.	Replacement of the pyridylmethyl moiety in indinavir with a pyridyl oxazole yielded HIV-1 protease inhibitors (PI) with greatly improved potency against PI-resistant HIV-1 strains. A meta-methoxy group on the pyridyl ring and a gem-dimethyl methyl linkage afforded compound 10 with notable in vitro antiviral activity against HIV-1 viral strains with reduced susceptibility to the clinically available PIs. Compound 10 also demonstrated favorable in vivo pharmacokinetics in animal models.
Discovery of 2-amino-heteroaryl-benzothiazole-6-anilides as potent p56(lck) inhibitors.	A series of structurally novel benzothiazole based small molecule inhibitors of p56(lck) was prepared to elucidate their structure-activity relationships (SAR), selectivity and cell activity in the T-cell proliferation assay. BMS-350751 (2) and BMS-358233 (3) are identified as potent Lck inhibitors with excellent cellular activities against T-cell proliferation.
Costimulatory molecule expression on leukocytes from mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis treated with IFN-beta.	Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) is of benefit in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), but the mechanisms by which it exerts this beneficial effect remain uncertain. The present data demonstrate that IFN-beta therapy impairs the proliferative response to concanavalin A (ConA) and myelin basic protein (MBP), decreases expression of the CD80 molecule on leukocytes of treated mice, and may thereby impede the Th1 cell activation-promoting anergy in EAE. Moreover, IFN-beta therapy increases expression of the CTLA4 molecule, which induces a counterregulatory Th2 response. The reduction of CD80 expression with concomitant increase of CTLA4 expression alters the course of EAE and may be useful as a monitor in therapy with IFN-beta.
Immunodeficiency and cancer: prospects for correction.	Cellular immunodeficiency is associated with human cancer. Extensive reviews on cancer of the head and neck, lung, esophagus and breast convince the author that for these diseases the immunodeficiency is reasonably well established yet the mechanisms are poorly understood. Evidence indicates that other tumors are similarly associated with cellular immune deficiency. The advent of recombinant cytokines and of antitumor monoclonal antibodies has served to focus attention toward direct tumoricidal mechanisms. As tumor antigens relating to cellular and humoral immune mechanisms are being defined and vaccine strategies are increasingly being attempted, it is critical to confront issues of the mechanism of anergy and effective immunorestoration in order to maximize the potential of cellular immune response to address these tumor antigens. Intrinsic to this approach is the introduction of contrasuppressive therapy to alleviate the tumor-associated immune suppression. Encouraging attempts have been made with plasmapheresis, indomethacin, low-dose cyclophosphamide, anti CTLA-4, anti FAS ligand and, perhaps in the future, more judiciously applied chemotherapy. In contrast to the popular notion that thymic involution cannot be reversed in the adult, studies from the author's laboratory indicate that in aged hydrocortisone stressed mice, a natural Type 1-cytokine mixture (IRX-2) hastens the reversal of thymic involution and promotes T-cell responses to cytokines and mitogens. Recombinant IL-1 and IL-2 by themselves, and in combination, were inactive. Similar positive effects were observed with oral zinc, zinc-thymulin and thymosin alpha(1). The combination of a natural cytokine mixture (IRX-2) with thymosin alpha1 had a very large effect and increased the absolute number of peripheral T lymphocytes as measured in the spleen. In studies of combination immunotherapy in lymphocytopenic squamous cell head and neck cancer patients using IRX-2 (18 patients) and IRX-2 plus thymosin alpha(1) (IRX-3) in IRX-2-refractory patients (7 patients), marked increases in CD(45)RA(+) 'nave' T cells (>250/mm(3)) were observed. These are among the first insights into how to generate T lymphocyte replacement in the adult. These and many other experimental efforts point to ways to achieve more effective immunotherapy of human cancer in the future, particularly if tumor-induced immune deficiency can be effectively addressed.
T cell immunostimulation by methyl inosine 5'-monophosphate: application to infectious diseases.	Methyl inosine 5'-monophosphate (MIMP) was designed and synthesized in an endeavor to generate compounds with immunostimulatory activity based on the precedent of purines, particularly inosine playing a central role in the development and function of the immune system. This review will summarize the immune-enhancing effects of MIMP on a variety of immunological responses both in vitro and in vivo. Among these studies, MIMP displays protective effects in several in vivo models of infectious disease following administration by one of several routes including oral. Furthermore, MIMP enhanced responses to Hepatitis B and influenza vaccines. Vaccination represents an extremely powerful tool for combating a variety of diseases, perhaps even cancer. However, to date, vaccines have been limited by their inability to produce cell-mediated responses and by the low immunogenicity of soluble/subunit antigens. In addition, there are difficulties in eliciting sufficient responses in immunocompromised individuals, which includes the elderly, due to the natural immunosenescence that occurs with aging. The data described here suggest that MIMP could be used to overcome some of these limitations. The application of MIMP as an adjuvant to the influenza vaccine, focusing on the elderly, at-risk populations will be discussed in more detail; however, several other bacterial and viral vaccine and/or disease targets merit further consideration.
T cell targeted immune enhancement yields effective T cell adjuvants.	Given the critical role of cell-mediated immunity (CMI) in defense against attack from pathogens that establish chronic infections, it has become abundantly clear that current vaccine methodology will not be sufficient to develop the appropriate immune response for protection and/or clearance of infection. By extension, this logic also applies to cancer vaccines where T cell immune-mediated destruction is a critical mechanism for control of the disease. This review describes our current thoughts on the events associated with immune activation and evaluates the various approaches to achieve successful immune activation with defined or targeted antigens as opposed to using inactivated or attenuated organisms. The advantages and disadvantages of the current adjuvants for antigens that focus on mimicking the infection events via the innate immune system or antigen uptake are described in the context of generation of T cell specific responses. A central theme of the discussions is the importance of cytokines in modulating the immune response towards T cell immunity, either by adjuvant modulation or use of natural cytokine mixtures targeted towards the site of immune activation. Also discussed is the possibility that thymomimetic agents such as thymosin alpha1, levamisole and methyl inosine monophosphate (MIMP) may be useful in enhancing the T cell mediated arm of the immune response.
Phenotypic switching of Cryptococcus neoformans can influence the outcome of the human immune response.	The human pathogenic fungus Cryptococcus neoformans exhibits the phenomenon of phenotypic switching, a process that generates variant colonies that can differ in morphology, virulence and other characteristics such as capsular glucuronoxylomannan (GXM) size and structure. A previous study established that mucoid colony (MC) variants of C. neoformans were more virulent and elicited a different inflammatory response than smooth colony (SM) variants. In this study, we investigated the interaction of cells from MC and SM variants and their respective GXMs with human T cells and monocytes. Specifically, we measured CD40, CD80 and CD86 expression, lymphoproliferation and interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-12Rbeta2 expression in the presence and absence of variant cells and their GXMs. For some immune parameters, both MC and SM strains produced similar results, in particular no differences were observed in IL-4 induction. However, for other critical parameters, including CD86 expression, lymphoproliferation and IL-10 production, the MC variant had effects that can be expected to impair the immune response. Hence, a single C. neoformans strain can elicit several different immune responses depending on the colony type expressed, and this is unlikely to be accounted for by differences in phagocytosis only. The results provide a potential explanation for the higher virulence of the MC variant based on the concept that these cells inhibit the development of a vigorous immune response. Furthermore, the results suggest a mechanism by which phenotypic switching can generate variants able to evade the immune response.
Blockade of the CD40/CD154 pathway enhances T-cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow engraftment under nonmyeloablative and irradiation-free conditioning therapy.	T-cell-depleted bone marrow transplantation (TDBMT) can prevent graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). However, depleting T cells from allogeneic bone marrow often results in failure of bone marrow engraftment under irradiation conditioning. It is not know whether donor T cells are essential for bone marrow engraftment and whether blocking the CD40/CD154 pathway promotes allogeneic TDBM engraftment under nonmyeloablative and irradiation-free fludarabine phosphate and cyclophosphamide conditioning therapy.
Coincident Kaposi sarcoma and T-cell lymphoma in a patient with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	A 24 year old male with a history of eczema, recurrent mild infections, and thrombocytopenia consistent with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) presented with a mediastinal mass, generalized lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and severe thrombocytopenia. Studies of immune function including immunoglobulin levels and T-cell subsets were normal. Furthermore, his T lymphocytes proliferated normally in response to phytohemagglutinin, concanavalin A, and the combination of neuraminidase/galactose oxidase. However, their proliferative responses to anti-CD43 antibody and periodate were diminished, consistent with the clinical diagnosis of WAS. An initial inguinal lymph node biopsy surprisingly revealed Kaposi sarcoma. However, following splenectomy to increase the platelet count, biopsy of the mediastinal mass revealed T-cell large cell lymphoma. Studies of biopsied tissue for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus and cytomegalovirus were negative, as were studies of blood, including the polymerase chain reaction, for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). This is the first report of Kaposi sarcoma arising in a patient with a congenital immunodeficiency syndrome. Although Kaposi sarcoma can arise in the face of the severe immunosuppression that follows allograft transplantation and in patients infected with HIV, we postulate that longevity in the face of mild immunosuppression was the major factor in the development of Kaposi sarcoma in this patient.
Increased intracellular cyclic AMP inhibits inositol phospholipid hydrolysis induced by perturbation of the T cell receptor/CD3 complex but not by G-protein stimulation. Association with protein kinase A-mediated phosphorylation of phospholipase C-gamma 1.	Modulation of inositol phospholipid (InsPL) hydrolysis in response to increasing intracellular concentrations of cyclic AMP (cAMP) was studied in a murine T helper type II (Th2) lymphocyte clone, 8-5-5. Intact 8-5-5 cells produced maximal amounts of cAMP in response to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), cholera toxin (CTx) or 7 beta-deacetyl-7 beta-(gamma-N-methylpiperazino)butyryl forskolin (dmpb-forskolin). cAMP generation reached a plateau after 5 min of treatment with dmpb-forskolin (300 microM) or PGE2 (1 microM), but required 60 min of treatment with CTx (1 microgram/ml). Preincubation of 8-5-5 cells with 1 microM-PGE2 or 300 microM-dmpb-forskolin (10 min at 37 degrees C) or with 1 microgram of CTx/ml (60 min at 37 degrees C) completely inhibited InsPL hydrolysis induced by perturbation of the T cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 complex with the monoclonal antibody 145.2C11. Preincubation with the cAMP analogue 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (8-Br-cAMP) also inhibited InsPL hydrolysis. Tetanolysin-permeabilized 8-5-5 cells produced cAMP in response to PGE2, dmpb-forskolin and guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (GTP[S]), a non-cell-permeating, non-hydrolysable analogue of GTP that directly activates G-proteins. No inhibition of TCR/CD3-induced InsPL hydrolysis was observed under these conditions. InsPL hydrolysis was also unaffected when permeabilized cells were incubated with up to 10 mM-8-Br-cAMP, suggesting that permeabilized cells lost (a) soluble effector molecule(s) involved in mediating the inhibitory effect observed in intact cells. Treatment of 8-5-5 cells with dmpb-forskolin or CTx prior to permeabilization resulted in inhibition of TCR/CD3-induced InsPL hydrolysis, but did not affect InsPL hydrolysis induced via G-protein stimulation with GTP[S]. Treatment of permeabilized 8-5-5 cells with purified cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) resulted in inhibition of TCR/CD3- but not GTP[S]-induced InsPL hydrolysis. This effect was associated with phosphorylation of phospholipase (PLC)-gamma 1 in the absence of phosphorylation of components of the TCR/CD3 complex. These results suggest that PKA-mediated phosphorylation of PLC may regulate TCR/CD3-induced InsPL hydrolysis.
Accessory function of human mononuclear phagocytes for lymphocyte responses to the superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin B.	The role of the cytokines IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6 and the cell adhesion molecules ICAM-1, LFA-1 (alpha and beta), and Mac-1 as accessory molecules for stimulation of T cells by the superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) was examined. Both blood monocytes and alveolar macrophages were used as accessory cells because these cells differ in patterns of cytokine expression and thus potentially in accessory cell function for superantigens. The blastogenic response of highly purified T cells to SEB was reconstituted with either monocytes or alveolar macrophages. IL-1 secretion was increased comparably in monocytes and alveolar macrophages by SEB, but IL-6 was not stimulated by SEB. IL-1 alpha plus IL-1 beta reconstituted the response of T cells to SEB but required the addition of accessory cells. The cell adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and LFA-1 but not Mac-1 also functioned as accessory molecules for SEB-induced cluster formation and lymphocyte blastogenesis. Thus, not only must this superantigen bind to Class II MHC on accessory cells as is well known, but also SEB requires at least certain cytokines (IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta) produced by accessory cells and cell adhesion molecules (ICAM-1 and LFA-1) for activation of T lymphocytes.
Immunomodulatory effects of therapeutic gold compounds. Gold sodium thiomalate inhibits the activity of T cell protein kinase C.	Previous studies have shown that the gold compounds, gold sodium thiomalate (GST) and auranofin (AUR), which are effective in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inhibit functional activities of a variety of cells, but the biochemical basis of their effect is unknown. In the current studies, human T cell proliferation and interleukin 2 production by Jurkat cells were inhibited by GST or AUR at pharmacologically relevant concentrations. Because it has been documented that protein kinase C (PKC) is involved in T cell activation, the capacity of gold compounds to inhibit PKC partially purified from Jurkat cells was assayed in vitro. GST was found to inhibit PKC in a dose-dependent manner, but AUR caused no significant inhibition of PKC at pharmacologically relevant concentrations. The inhibitory effect of GST on PKC was abolished by 2-mercaptoethanol. To investigate the effect of GST on the regulation of PKC in vivo, the levels of PKC activity in Jurkat cells were examined. Cytosolic PKC activity decreased slowly in a concentration- and time-dependent manner as a result of incubation of Jurkat cells with GST. To ascertain whether GST inhibited PKC translocation and down-regulation, PKC activities associated with the membrane and cystosolic fractions were evaluated after phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) stimulation of GST incubated Jurkat cells. Translocation of PKC was markedly inhibited by pretreatment of Jurkat cells with GST for 3 d, but the capacity of PMA to down-regulate PKC activity in Jurkat cells was not altered by GST preincubation. The functional impact of GST-mediated downregulation of PKC in Jurkat cells was examined by analyzing PMA-stimulated phosphorylation of CD3. Although GST preincubated Jurkat cells exhibited an increased density of CD3, PMA-stimulated phosphorylation of the gamma chain of CD3 was markedly inhibited. Specificity for the inhibitory effect of GST on PKC was suggested by the finding that GST did not alter the mitogen-induced increases in inositol trisphosphate levels in Jurkat cells. Finally, the mechanism of the GST-induced inhibition of PKC was examined in detail, using purified PKC subspecies from rat brain. GST inhibited type II PKC more effectively than type III PKC, and also inhibited the enzymatic activity of the isolated catalytic fragment of PKC. The inhibitory effect of GST on PKC activity could not be explained by competition with phospholipid or nonspecific interference with the substrate. These data suggest that the immunomodulatory effects of GST may result from its capacity to inhibit PKC activity.
The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506.	CsA and FK506 are powerful suppressors of the immune system, most notably of T cells. They act at a point in activation that lies between receptor ligation and the transcription of early genes. Here, Stuart Schreiber and Gerald Crabtree review recent findings that indicate CsA and FK506 operate as prodrugs: they bind endogenous intracellular receptors, the immunophilins, and the resulting complex targets the protein phosphatase, calcineurin, to exert the immunosuppressive effect.
Determinants of cisplatin sensitivity in non-malignant non-drug-selected human T cell lines.	We have studied molecular mechanisms of cisplatin sensitivity and resistance in 3 non-malignant, non-drug-selected human T lymphocyte cell lines. HuT 78, H9, and MOLT-4 cells were assessed for sensitivity to cisplatin, DNA damage levels following defined drug exposures, drug accumulation, and DNA repair efficiency as measured by adduct removal from cellular DNA and by host-cell reactivation of cisplatin-modified plasmid DNA. Based on 3-day continuous drug exposures, the IC50 values for the cell lines were: HuT 78, 0.83 microM; H9, 0.45 microM; and MOLT-4, 0.33 microM. These cells retained this order with respect to DNA repair capability, whether measured by platinum-DNA adduct removal from cellular DNA or by host-cell reactivation assays. DNA repair values measured by these two assays were directly related to one another with a linear correlation coefficient of 0.993. At sublethal cisplatin doses the more resistant cells showed the highest levels of drug uptake. When drug uptake levels were 'corrected' for drug-induced cell kill, there were equal levels of DNA repair efficiency for a given level of drug uptake. Absolute levels of cisplatin-DNA adduct repair increased with increasing drug dose. However, at supralethal doses of drug, efficient DNA repair could be overcome in all 3 cell lines with percentage-adduct-removal dropping from a 60-80% range to a less than 30% range. We conclude that in non-malignant non-drug-selected human T cells, DNA repair appears to be the primary determinant of cisplatin sensitivity/resistance and that enhanced DNA repair may be a biologic compensatory mechanism for cells that cannot prevent cellular uptake of DNA-damaging agents.
Quantitative and qualitative differences in IL-2 and IL-4 expression in primary and secondary T cell stimulation.	Lymphocytes were concanavalin A (Con A) primed and the signal was withdrawn 4-48 h post-stimulation by alpha-methyl-D-mannopyranoside (alpha MM) treatment. Upon restimulation IL-2 and IL-4 RNA expression was found to be greatly enhanced. Re-expression of lymphokine RNA was dependent on signals delivered by Con A, anti-CD3 antibodies or phorbolester plus ionomycin, and could not be achieved by either IL-2, phorbolester or ionomycin alone. Increased IL-2 re-expression was only possible when alpha MM was added early after primary stimulation, while the ability for enhanced IL-4 RNA re-expression persisted. IL-2 and IL-4 RNA re-expression was characterized by increases in steady state precursor RNA levels and thus, presumably, increased rates of transcription. However, the high accumulation of IL-2 RNA observed upon restimulation was also due to greatly increased RNA stability (greater than 4 h versus 30 min after primary stimulation). Thus, secondary expression of IL-4 RNA is persistent and mostly due to quantitative changes in transcription, whereas enhanced re-expression of IL-2 RNA also results from altered post-transcriptional regulation. This phenotype, however, is only short lived.
Recruitment of T lymphocytes and induction of tumor necrosis factor in thyroid cancer by a local immunotherapy.	To elucidate the mechanism of action for intratumoral injection of immunopotentiators, infiltrating mononuclear cells and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) were assayed by immunostaining tissue samples of differentiated thyroid cancer resected with or without presurgical local application of OK-432, a streptococcal preparation. Frozen sections of resected specimens were stained with monoclonal antibodies using either a conventional or a modified immunoperoxidase method. The tumors injected with OK-432 showed increased T lymphocyte infiltration and HLA-DR expression on cancer cells as compared to the non-injected controls. Among these T cells, the CD4+ subset was more numerous than the CD8+ population. In four out of the seven cases constituting the injected group, numerous TNF-positive cells were seen in clusters or lines as well as scattered, while none of the seven cases in the control group was associated with a considerable amount of these cells. In their morphology and distribution pattern, these TNF-positive cells appeared to be of macrophage lineage. Thus local injection of OK-432 in thyroid cancer was shown to recruit T lymphocytes of predominantly the CD4+ subset and to induce in situ production of TNF, a known potent tumoricidal cytokine. The present data warrant further studies in this direction besides wider clinical intratumoral application of the reagent.
Phenotypic and functional similarities between 5-azacytidine-treated T cells and a T cell subset in patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus.	Antigen-specific CD4+ T cells treated with DNA methylation inhibitors become autoreactive, suggesting a novel mechanism for autoimmunity. To test whether this mechanism might be involved in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), phenotypic markers for the autoreactive cells were sought.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin B as a potent suppressant of T lymphocytes: trace levels suppress T lymphocyte proliferative responses.	Staphylococcal enterotoxins have long been known to be powerful stimulators of T lymphocytes in mouse and man. In a previous study we showed that high concentrations of staphylococcal enterotoxin serotype B (SEB) failed to stimulate strong proliferative responses by Lewis rat T lymphocytes. Moreover, concentrations of SEB (10-50 micrograms/ml) that stimulated optimal mouse T lymphocyte proliferative responses suppressed a mitogen- or antigen-induced rat T lymphocytes proliferative responses. The present study shows that SEB at low concentrations (as low as 10(-3)-10(-4) micrograms/ml) and often also trace levels (about 10(-6)-10(-7) micrograms/ml) suppresses both rat and mouse T lymphocytes proliferative responses to mitogen or antigen. Furthermore, under different circumstances, SEB may have conflicting effects on the same T cells. While high concentrations (1-50 micrograms/ml) of SEB stimulate certain mouse T cell clones, low concentrations or trace levels have a potent suppressive effect on the same clones. The results indicate that the in vitro conflicting effects of SEB on the same T cells are concentration dependent and may reflect its in vivo effects on SEB-reactive T lymphocytes. The suppression of the mitogen- or antigen-induced stimulation of T cell clones by SEB was direct and did not require the agency of suppressor cells. Furthermore, the suppression by low amounts of SEB was not major histocompatibility complex restricted and affected a large proportion of both rat and mouse T lymphocyte subpopulation, regardless of their antigenic specificity. The concomitant suppressogenic and stimulatory characteristics of SEB support the conclusion that, under different conditions, SEB can be considered a "super-suppressogen" as well as a "super-antigen". Overall, the results suggest that SEB, and possibly other bacterial toxins, could be useful in immunomodulation of specific T cell responses.
T cell responses to human recombinant acetylcholine receptor-alpha subunit in myasthenia gravis and controls.	Antibodies against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of the neuromuscular junction are detectable in most patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and assumed to participate in the destruction of the AChR, thereby, causing the characteristics signs and symptoms of the disease. The extent and importance of T cell responses to AChR and its subunits in MG are still unsettled. We have now examined T cell reactivities using human recombinant AChR-alpha subunit as antigen. Upon recognition of appropriate antigen in an MHC-class II-restricted fashion, memory T cells secrete interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Adopting this principle in an immunospot assay we found that 73% of MG patients had recombinant human AChR-alpha subunit-reactive T cells at a median value of 1 per 56,000 blood mononuclear cells, while only 27% of the MG patients responded to the alpha subunit in a conventional lymphocyte proliferation assay. This compares with even lower numbers of AChR-reactive T cells and 14% positivity in the proliferation assay among control subjects. The T cell responses to the control antigens purified protein derivative and myelin basic protein did not differ between MG and controls, underlining the specificity of an augmented T cell reactivity to AChR-alpha subunit in MG. Alpha Subunit-specific T cell lines and clones propagated from patients with MG and healthy controls yielded a high proportion of alpha subunit-reactive T cells in the IFN-gamma immunospot assay. Their appearance was inhibited by the addition of monoclonal anti-MHC class II antibodies, demonstrating that an MHC-restricted T cell response was measured. Our data underline that the AChR-alpha subunit is a major T cell autoantigen in MG.
The response of C3H mice to streptozotocin. I. Thymic depression and leukocyte toxicity.	Streptozotocin, an antibiotic with reported antileukemic activity, was administered to C3H mice to evaluate the response of peripheral blood leukocytes and thymic lymphocytes. The hematologic effects of a single diabetogenic dose of streptozotocin include an absolute neutropenia and a depression of tritiated thymidine incorporation into thymic lymphocytes.
Corticosteroids in human lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxic reactions: effects on the kinetics of sensitization and on the cytolytic capacity of effector lymphocytes in vitro.	The present experiments tested the ability of hydrocortisone and methylprednisolone to alter the process of in vitro generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes against specific alloantigens or to suppress the lytic phase of the subsequent cytotoxic reactions. The continuous presence of hydrocortisone in culture reduced the total number of cytotoxic lymphocytes recovered following their sensitization in mixed leukocyte cultures. However, corticosteroids had no direct effect on the processes required for generation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, since equal numbers of effector lymphocytes generated in the presence or absence of hydrocortisone produced equivalent, specific lympholysis. The addition of either hydrocortisone or methylprednisolone only during the cytolytic phase of cell-mediated lympholysis failed to significantly suppress the killing of lymphocyte targets. In contrast, parallel studies of the capacity of the same lymphocytes to serve as effector cells in antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity showed that both hydrocortisone and methylprednisolone directly inhibited the killing of Chang liver cells sensitized with low concentrations of antibody.
Expression and synthesis of fibroblast growth factor-9 in human gammadelta T-lymphocytes. Response to isopentenyl pyrophosphate and TGF-beta1/IL-15.	Gammadelta T-lymphocytes are believed to play a role in maintaining the normal configuration of epithelial tissue. As little is known about the factors mediating this function, we addressed the question of whether gammadelta T-lymphocytes produce fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-9 as well as two other growth factors associated with epithelial tissue reconstitution. Blood gammadelta T cells isolated from healthy donors were grown in the presence of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) or transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)/interleukin-15 (IL-15) for 24 h and were assessed for the expression and synthesis of FGF-9, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Resting human gammadelta T cells constitutively expressed KGF and FGF-9 mRNA but no EGF mRNA. In the presence of IPP, FGF-9 mRNA expression significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner, expression of KGF remained unaltered, and EGF mRNA could not be detected. In contrast to IPP, stimulation of the cells with TGF-beta1/IL-15 did not alter FGF-9 expression. Moreover, stimulation with anti-CD3 does not induce FGF-9 expression but triggers a high signal of interferon-gamma mRNA. Western blot analysis of gammadelta T cell lysates, prepared 4 days following stimulation with IPP, showed an increase of FGF-9 protein as compared with control cells. In conclusion, the results demonstrate for the first time that human blood and bronchoalveolar lavage gammadelta T-lymphocytes are capable of expressing FGF-9. The data also provide novel evidence that immunoregulatory cells can synthesize FGF-9.
Combined activation of innate and T cell immunity for recognizing immunomodulatory properties of therapeutic agents.	Complex syndromes such as atherosclerosis and type 2 diabetes are disorders that are associated with inflammatory processes involving innate and adaptive immunity. Emerging knowledge about the pathological consequences of immune imbalances in a wide range of disease settings is expected to help to identify novel therapeutic targets. However, current test systems for immunomodulatory drugs tend to be too simplistic, as they rely only on cells of the innate- or the adaptive-immune system, or they are complex, in vivo models, which are not suitable for screening purposes. Using a modified mixed lymphocyte culture (MMLC) assay for combined analysis of innate and adaptive immunity, we show that this assay is very sensitive for the presence of low concentrations of immunomodulatory agents. Low-dose lipopolysaccharide stimulation of cells from two unrelated donors yields a strong cytokine response including interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-18, which induce interferon-gamma as a potential analysis parameter. As the MMLC assay is based on the mutual interaction of cells of the innate and adaptive immunity, it enables the monitoring of cytokine release under almost physiological conditions and might be of interest for the characterization of known and novel drugs concerning their immunomodulatory potency.
Asthma exacerbations after glucocorticoid withdrawal reflects T cell recruitment to the airway.	We reasoned that a prospective assessment of glucocorticoid withdrawal in subjects with asthma would provide insight into the basis for flares of the disease. We therefore enrolled 25 subjects with moderate persistent asthma and treated them for 30 days with inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,760 microg/day) followed by a withdrawal period that lasted until peak expiratory airflow decreased by 25% and FEV(1) by 15% or 6 weeks elapsed. After glucocorticoid withdrawal, 13 of 25 subjects reached the target, whereas 12 subjects did not. The number of eosinophils in bronchial biopsies was increased by glucocorticoid withdrawal in both groups, but increases in airway T cells were found in only those with exacerbation. T-cell accumulation was a reflection of similar increases in both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and was accompanied by increased expression of chemokine CCL5 (regulated upon activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted) in the airway epithelium without activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB. The pattern of glucocorticoid-sensitive inflammation during an asthma exacerbation is more reminiscent of an antiviral response than an eosinophil-predominant response to allergen and implies an independent role for airway T cells in mediating asthma flares and in determining glucocorticoid efficacy in the treatment of this disease.
Preliminary in vivo pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation of a novel calcineurin-independent inhibitor of NFAT.	A-285222 (A-285) is a bis-trifluoromethyl-pyrazole (BTP), a novel class of immunosuppressive agents that inhibit NFAT activity in vitro in human and non-human primate cells through a calcineurin-independent mechanism. In this preliminary study, we treated cynomolgus monkeys with different doses of A-285 for several days. Blood was collected from all animals at different times during the study. From these samples, plasma concentrations of A-285 were measured by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS), and intracellular T-cell production of the cytokines IL-2, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha was quantified by flow cytometry using a mitogen-stimulated whole blood assay. Marked inhibition of cytokine production occurred after administration of the first dose of A-285, and this effect was comparable to that of cyclosporine. While neurological toxic side effects were seen when the plasma concentration of A-285 exceeded 4 microg/ml, at lower plasma levels the drug was well tolerated over 2 weeks and its pharmacodynamic effects were sustained throughout this time.
Induction of various immune modulatory molecules in CD34(+) hematopoietic cells.	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been shown to induce proliferation of human T-lymphocytes only in the presence of monocytes and CD34(+) hematopoietic cells (HCs) from peripheral blood. This finding provided evidence of an active role of CD34(+) HCs during inflammation and immunological events. To investigate mechanisms by which CD34(+) HCs become activated and exert their immune-modulatory function, we used the human CD34(+) acute myeloid leukemia cell line KG-1a and CD34(+) bone marrow cells (BMCs). We showed that culture supernatants of LPS-stimulated mononuclear cells (SUP(LPS)) as well as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TauNF-alpha), but not LPS alone, can activate nuclear factor-kappaB in KG-1a cells. By cDNA subtraction and multiplex polymerase chain reaction, we revealed differential expression of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein-1, inhibitor of kappaB (IkappaB)/IkappaBalpha (MAD-3), and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in SUP(LPS)-stimulated KG-1a cells and up-regulation of interferon (IFN)-inducible T cell-chemoattractant, interleukin (IL)-8, macrophage-inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), MIP-1beta, RANTES, CD70, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, and IL-1beta in stimulated KG-1a cells and CD34(+) BMCs. Although monokine induced by IFN-gamma, IFN-inducible protein 10, and IFN-gamma were exclusively up-regulated in KG-1a cells, differential expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), macrophage-derived chemokine, myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-2, and IL-18 receptor was only detectable in CD34(+) BMCs. More importantly, CD34(+) BMCs stimulated by TNF-alpha also showed enhanced secretion of MCP-1, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, and IL-8, and increased ICAM-1 protein expression could be detected in stimulated KG-1a cells and CD34(+) BMCs. Furthermore, we revealed that T cell proliferation can be induced by TNF-alpha-stimulated KG-1a cells, which is preventable by blocking anti-ICAM-1 monoclonal antibodies. Our results demonstrate that CD34(+) HCs have the potential to express a variety of immune-regulatory mediators upon stimulation by inflammatory cytokines including TNF-alpha, which may contribute to innate- and adaptive-immune processes.
Reversible changes in cytolytic T lymphocyte function induced by hyperthermia.	The ability of cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) generated in vitro in mixed leucocyte cultures (MLC) to "repair" functional damage induced by moderate hyperthermia has been investigated. Repair of CTL function was assessed in a split dose system in which MLC cells were exposed to a total of 20 min at 43 degrees C delivered either as a single treatment or as two 10 min fractions separated by an interval at 37 degrees C. Significant repair was observed within 15 min at 37 degrees C in the split-dose protocol and maximum repair (corresponding to a 30-100-fold increase in lytic activity) was seen after 1.5-2 h. Repair was both temperature and energy dependent and was apparently related to a reversible lesion in the cytolytic mechanism itself. The effect of a number of metabolic inhibitors (and other agents) on repair was determined, but the precise nature of the heat-induced lesion could not be identified.
Biliverdin, a natural product of heme catabolism, induces tolerance to cardiac allografts.	Biliverdin, a product of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) enzymatic action, is converted into bilirubin, which has been considered a waste product in the past. We now show that administration of biliverdin has a salutary effect in organ transplantation. A brief course of treatment with biliverdin leads to long-term survival of H-2 incompatible heart allografts. Furthermore, those recipients harboring long-surviving (>100 days) allografts were tolerant to donor antigens indicated by the acceptance of second donor strain hearts but not third-party grafts. Treatment with biliverdin decreased intragraft leukocyte infiltration and inhibited T cell proliferation. Likely related to tolerance induction, biliverdin interferes with T cell signaling by inhibiting activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), two transcription factors involved in interleukin-2 (IL-2) transcription and T cell proliferation, as well as suppressing Th1 interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production in vitro. These findings support the potential use of biliverdin, a natural product, in transplantation and other T cell mediated immune disorders.
CXCL16/SR-PSOX is an interferon-gamma-regulated chemokine and scavenger receptor expressed in atherosclerotic lesions.	Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease. Several chemokines are important for monocyte/macrophage and T-cell recruitment to the lesion. CXCL16 is a recently discovered chemokine that is expressed in soluble and transmembrane forms, ligates CXCR6 chemokine receptor, and guides migration of activated Th1 and Tc1 cells. It is identical to scavenger receptor SR-PSOX, which mediates uptake of oxidized low-density lipoprotein. We investigated whether CXCL16 expression is controlled by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-cytokine abundant in atherosclerotic lesions.
Shed membrane particles from T lymphocytes impair endothelial function and regulate endothelial protein expression.	Microparticles (MPs) are membrane vesicles with procoagulant and proinflammatory properties released during cell activation. The present study was designed to dissect the effects evoked by T lymphocyte-derived MPs on vascular function.
Anandamide is an endogenous inhibitor for the migration of tumor cells and T lymphocytes.	Cell migration is of paramount importance in physiological processes such as immune surveillance, but also in the pathological processes of tumor cell migration and metastasis development. The factors that regulate this tumor cell migration, most prominently neurotransmitters, have thus been the focus of intense investigation. While the majority of neurotransmitters have a stimulatory effect on cell migration, we herein report the inhibitory effect of the endogenous substance anandamide on both tumor cell and lymphocyte migration. Using a collagen-based three-dimensional migration assay and time-lapse videomicroscopy, we have observed that the anandamide-mediated signals for CD8+ T lymphocytes and SW 480 colon carcinoma cells are each mediated by distinct cannabinoid receptors (CB-Rs). Using the specific agonist docosatetraenoylethanolamide (DEA), we have observed that the norepinephrine-induced migration of colon carcinoma cells is inhibited by the CB1-R. The SDF-1-induced migration of CD8+ T lymphocytes was, however, inhibited via the CB2-R, as shown by using the specific agonist JWH 133. Therefore, specific inhibition of tumor cell migration via CB1-R engagement might be a selective tool to prevent metastasis formation without depreciatory effects on the immune system of cancer patients.
Effects of methyl-beta-cyclodextrin on T lymphocytes lipid rafts with aging.	Aging is associated with a decline in immune functions. Among them, T-cell activation is altered at several points of the signaling cascade following TCR engagement. Recent findings suggest that lipid rafts act as a platform in the initiation of T-cell activation. We have previously demonstrated that cholesterol content in T-cells increased with aging, especially in lipid rafts. Cholesterol, which is a major component of lipid rafts, serves to stabilize their structure. We hypothesized that restoring T-cell cholesterol content and membrane fluidity would restore, at least in part, T-cell function via lipid rafts. We measured the lipid rafts coalescence, the p56(Lck) and linker of activated T-cell (LAT) signaling molecules recruitment and activation, the cholesterol content and fluidity in T-cell membrane after different methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MBCD) treatments. Our results show that high concentration of MBCD (10 mM) completely disorganized the lipid rafts in T-cell membranes of young and elderly donors, however, T-cells from elderly donors were less sensitive than T-cells of young donors to low concentration of MBCD (0.5 mM). p56(Lck) and LAT recruitment and activation were affected in T-cells of both aged groups. MBCD treatment did not affect the cholesterol content and fluidity of T-cell membranes of young donors, while the cholesterol content was decreased and fluidity increased in lipid rafts of elderly donors. These results suggested that cholesterol extraction by MBCD increased the fluidity and disrupted lipid rafts organization. The increase in cholesterol content in lipid rafts with aging and its decrease by biochemical extraction were able to affect early signaling molecules activation. Restoring cholesterol content and fluidity may have beneficial effects, however, MBCD disorganized the membrane and this might not completely restore the T-cell activation via lipid rafts with aging. Altogether these results suggest that defects in cholesterol cellular homeostasis may be part of T-cell immunosenescence via lipid rafts dysfunction.
The influence of single or repeated low-level sarin exposure on immune functions of inbred BALB/c mice.	To study the influence of single or repeated low-level sarin inhalation exposure on immune functions, inbred BALB/c mice were exposed to low clinically asymptomatic concentrations of sarin for 60 min. in the inhalation chamber. The evaluation of immune functions was carried out using phenotyping of CD3 (T-lymphocytes), CD4 (helper T-lymphocytes), CD8 (cytotoxic T-lymphocytes) and CD19 (B-lymphocytes) in the lungs, blood and spleen, lymphoproliferation of spleen cells stimulated in vitro by various mitogens (concanavalin A, lipopolysaccharides), phagocyte activity of peritoneal and alveolar macrophages, production of N-oxides by peritoneal macrophages and the measurement of the natural killer cell activity at one week after sarin exposure. The results were compared to the values obtained from control mice exposed to pure air instead of sarin. The results indicate that an asymptomatic dose of sarin is able to alter the reaction of the immune system at one week after exposure to sarin. While the number of CD3 cells in lung was significantly decreased, a slight increase in CD19 cells was observed especially in the lungs after a single sarin inhalation exposure. Lymphoproliferation was significantly decreased regardless of the mitogen and sarin concentration used and the number of low-level sarin exposures. The ability of peritoneal and alveolar macrophages to phagocyte the microbes was also decreased regardless of the number of low-level sarin exposures. The production of N-oxides by peritoneal macrophages was decreased following a single low-level sarin exposure but increased following repeated low-level sarin inhalation exposure. Nevertheless, the changes in the production of N-oxides that reflects a bactericidal activity of peritoneal macrophages was not significant. The natural killer cell activity was significantly higher in the case of inhalation exposure of mice to low concentration of sarin regardless of the number of exposures. Thus, not only organophosphorous insecticides but also nerve agents such as sarin are able to alter immune functions following a single inhalation exposure even at a dose that does not cause clinically manifested intoxication. Generally, the repeated exposure to low concentrations of sarin does not increase the alteration of immune functions compared to the single low-level sarin exposure with the exception of phagocyte activity of alveolar macrophages and natural killer cell activity.
Allicin inhibits SDF-1alpha-induced T cell interactions with fibronectin and endothelial cells by down-regulating cytoskeleton rearrangement, Pyk-2 phosphorylation and VLA-4 expression.	Allicin, a major ingredient of fresh garlic extract that is produced during the crushing of garlic cloves, exerts various beneficial biological effects, including a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity, antihyperlipidaemic and antihypertensive effects. However, how allicin affects the immune system is less well known, and its effect on human T cells has never been studied. Here, we examined the in-vitro effects of allicin on the functioning of T cells related to their entry to inflamed extravascular sites. We found that allicin (20-100 microm) inhibits the SDF-1alpha (CXCL12)-induced T cell migration through fibronectin (FN), and that this inhibition is mediated by the down-regulation of (i) the reorganization of cortical actin and the subsequent T cell polarization, and (ii) T cell adhesion to FN. Moreover, allicin also inhibited T cell adhesion to endothelial cells and transendothelial migration. The mechanisms underlying these inhibitory effects of allicin are associated with its ability to down-regulate the phosphorylation of Pyk2, an intracellular member of the focal adhesion kinases, and to reduce the expression of the VCAM-1- and FN-specific alpha4beta1-integrin (VLA-4). The ability of allicin to down-regulate these chemokine-induced and VLA-4-mediated T cell functions explains its beneficial biological effects in processes where T cells play an important role and suggests that allicin may be used therapeutically with chronic inflammatory diseases.
Establishment of an atopic dermatitis-like skin model in a hairless mouse by repeated elicitation of contact hypersensitivity that enables to conduct functional analyses of the stratum corneum with various non-invasive biophysical instruments.	Pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD) has been studied in animal models such as the NC/Nga mouse strain or Balb/C mice that are repeatedly treated with 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chrolobenzene (TNCB). These mice exhibit features of chronic contact dermatitis, including an intensified early type skin reaction, increased number of mast cells and elevated serum IgE levels with a shift of cutaneous cytokine expression from a type 1 to type 2 profile. However, it is difficult to investigate the unique skin changes of AD such as dry skin, barrier dysfunction, and increased turnover of the stratum corneum (SC) in these animals with biophysical instruments because of the presence of their fur coats. In this study, we succeeded in establishing a mouse model of AD in hairless mice that are suitable for various functional analyses of the SC as well as for examining the immunological characteristics of human AD by treating TNCB-contact sensitized hairless mice with 1% TNCB every other day for 36 days.
New insights in protein phosphorylation: a signature for protein phosphatase 1 interacting proteins.	Protein phosphatase 1 is regulated by the interaction between a catalytic subunit (PP1c) and multiple interacting proteins that allow the specific dephosphorylation of diverse cellular targets. This communication proposes to use the simultaneous presence of distinct consensus PP1c docking motifs R/K-x(0,1)-V-x-F and F-x-x-R/K-x-R/K as a signature to identify proteins putatively interacting with the PP1c. To develop this concept, we propose a new website, http://pp1 signature.pasteur.fr, which allows the identification of putative PP1-interacting proteins containing the two distinct PP1c docking consensus motifs represented in the Swissprot library. To validate the new concept of signature, we were able to characterise, by co-immunoprecipitation, four new PP1c interacting proteins randomly selected from the database in our website.
Neonatal capsaicin treatment affects rat thymocyte proliferation and cell death by modulating substance P and neurokinin-1 receptor expression.	Herein we provide evidence that substance P (SP) and its neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1R) expressed on thymocytes counteract thymus depletion induced by neonatal capsaicin (CPS) treatment by affecting thymocyte proliferation and apoptotic death. SP administration reversed the CPS-mediated inhibitory effects on the total thymocyte number and subset distribution, namely CD4+ and CD4- CD8- cells, through its interaction with NK-1R as shown by concomitant NK-1R (SR140333) antagonist administration. SP-induced enhancement of thymus cellularity parallels its ability of inhibiting the thymocyte apoptotic program. Indeed, exogenously administered SP completely nullified CPS-induced apoptosis, and SR140333 abrogated the SP-mediated protective effect. SP administration also stimulated concanavalin A (Con A)-induced thymocyte proliferation of CPS-treated rats, completely reversing the CPS-induced inhibition. The SP-mediated stimulation of Con A-induced thymocyte proliferation was NK-1R dependent as shown by concomitant administration of SP and SR140333 to CPS-treated rats. Our results also demonstrate that CPS treatment induces a marked decrease of thymocyte PPT-A mRNA level and endogenous SP content as evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR, in situ hybridization and cytofluorimetric analysis. By contrast, NK-1R mRNA levels were increased in thymocytes from CPS-treated rats. Exogenous SP administration augmented PPT-A, SP and NK-1R thymocyte expression in CPS-treated rats, and this enhancement was antagonized by SR140333 administration. Overall, our results strongly suggest that the immunomodulatory effects of neonatal CPS treatment on rat thymocyte functions are dependent on vanilloid-mediated regulation of SP and NK-1R functional expression by neuronal and immune cells.
DNA vaccination with CD25 protects rats from adjuvant arthritis and induces an antiergotypic response.	Ab's to the alpha-chain of the IL-2 receptor (anti-CD25) are used clinically to achieve immunosuppression. Here we investigated the effects of DNA vaccination with the whole CD25 gene on the induction of rat adjuvant arthritis. The DNA vaccine protected the rats and led to a shift in the cytokine profile of T cells responding to disease target antigens from Th1 to Th2. The mechanism of protection was found to involve the induction of an antiergotypic response, rather than the induction of anti-CD25 Ab's. Antiergotypic T cells respond to activation molecules, ergotopes, expressed on syngeneic activated, but not resting, T cells. CD25-derived peptides function as ergotopes that can be recognized by the antiergotypic T cells. Antiergotypic T cells taken from control sick rats did not proliferate against activated T cells and secreted mainly IFN-gamma. In contrast, antiergotypic cells from CD25-DNA-protected rats proliferated against activated T cells and secreted mainly IL-10. Protective antiergotypic T cells were found in both the CD4+ and CD8+ populations and expressed alpha/beta or gamma/delta T cell receptors. Antiergotypic alpha/beta T cells were MHC restricted, while gamma/delta T cells were MHC independent. Thus, CD25 DNA vaccination may induce protection from autoimmunity by inducing a cytokine shift in both the antiergotypic response and the response to the antigens targeted in the disease.
TGF-beta regulates in vivo expansion of Foxp3-expressing CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells responsible for protection against diabetes.	CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells are essential in the protection from organ-specific autoimmune diseases. In the pancreas, they inhibit actions of autoreactive T cells and thereby prevent diabetes progression. The signals that control the generation, the maintenance, or the expansion of regulatory T cell pool in vivo remain poorly understood. Here we show that a transient pulse of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) in the islets during the priming phase of diabetes is sufficient to inhibit disease onset by promoting the expansion of intraislet CD4+CD25+ T cell pool. Approximately 40-50% of intraislet CD4+ T cells expressed the CD25 marker and exhibited characteristics of regulatory T cells including small size, high level of intracellular CTLA-4, expression of Foxp3, and transfer of protection against diabetes. Results from in vivo incorporation of BrdUrd revealed that the generation of a high frequency of regulatory T cells in the islets is due to in situ expansion upon TGF-beta expression. Thus, these findings demonstrate a previously uncharacterized mechanism by which TGF-beta inhibits autoimmune diseases via regulation of the size of the CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cell pool in vivo.
Caspase-9 is the upstream caspase activated by 8-methoxypsoralen and ultraviolet-A radiation treatment of Jurkat T leukemia cells and normal T lymphocytes.	A combination of 8-methoxypsoralen and ultraviolet-A radiation (PUVA) is used for the treatment of T cell-mediated disorders, including chronic graft-versus-host disease. The mechanisms of action of this therapy, referred to as extracorporeal phototherapy, have not been fully elucidated. PUVA is known to induce apoptosis in T lymphocytes collected by apheresis, however scarce information is available concerning the apoptotic pathways activated by PUVA.
Efficient transduction and selection of human T-lymphocytes with bicistronic Thy1/HSV1-TK retroviral vector produced by a human packaging cell line.	T-cells expressing the HSV1-TK suicide gene can be used for the control of graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic stem cell transplantation. To develop clinical trials based on such a strategy, we have generated under good manufacturing procedures a novel 'split genome' human packaging cell line (1704 cells).
New biologic therapies for psoriatic disease.	Psoriasis is a common cutaneous disease that can have a profound effect on an individual's life. New biologic drugs--proteins that are synthesized using recombinant DNA technology to mimic naturally occurring molecules and that selectively target the immune system--have changed the paradigm for treating this disease. We review 4 biologic drugs that are either currently FDA approved or in phase 3 studies: Alefacept (Amevive) and efalizumab (Raptiva), which are T-cell modulators; etanercept (Enbrel), a soluble TNF receptor; and infliximab (Remicade), an anti-TNF monoclonal antibody.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and CD80 modulate CD28 expression through a similar mechanism of T-cell receptor-independent inhibition of transcription.	Replicative senescence of human T cells is characterized by the loss of CD28 expression, exemplified by the clonal expansion of CD28(null) T cells during repeated stimulation in vitro as well as in chronic inflammatory and infectious diseases and in the normal course of aging. Because CD28 is the major costimulatory receptor for the induction of T cell-mediated immunity, the mechanism(s) underlying CD28 loss is of paramount interest. Current models of replicative senescence involve protracted procedures to generate CD28(null) cells from CD28(+) precursors; hence, a T-cell line model was used to examine the dynamics of CD28 expression. Here, we show the versatility of the JT and Jtag cell lines in tracking CD28(null) <--> CD28(hi) phenotypic transitions. JT and Jtag cells were CD28(null) and CD28(lo), respectively, but expressed high levels of CD28 when exposed to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. This was a result of the reconstitution of the CD28 gene transcriptional initiator (INR). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha reduced CD28 expression because of the inhibition of INR-driven transcription. Ligation of CD28 by an antibody or by CD80 also down-regulated CD28 transcription through the same mechanism, providing evidence that CD28 can generate a T cell receptor-independent signal with a unique biological outcome. Collectively, these data unequivocally demonstrate the critical role of the INR in the regulation of CD28 expression. T cell lines with transient expression of CD28 are invaluable in the dissection of the biochemical processes involved in the transactivation of the CD28 INR, the silencing of which is a key event in the ontogenesis of senescent T cells.
Biologicals: a new therapeutic approach for inflammatory diseases]	The pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases is determined by a malfunction of the immune system. Up to now therapies have not been able to cure but to interfere in a more or less specific way with the immune function. The great increase of knowledge in immunology made it possible to develop new medications, which alter the immune system in a specific way. The advantage is the relative simple way of developing new medications by using monoclonal antibodies against specific antigens and testing the hypothesis in animal model and in small but clear phase II trials. Biologicals are similar or identical to human proteins and rarely have side effects, which exceed their interference with the immune system. Because of the clinical success of anti-TNF-therapies and the increased knowledge about immune mechanisms, biologicals are now used in various fields of medicine. This paper reviews data from biologicals that are either already approved or in an advanced stage of clinical testing.
Flow cytometric test for beryllium sensitivity.	Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is an occupational granulomatous disorder characterized by hypersensitivity to beryllium, mediated by CD4+ T lymphocytes, and predominantly affects the lungs. In this disorder, lymphocyte proliferative responses to beryllium, measured by 3H thymidine incorporation, are used for diagnosis of CBD, for screening asymptomatic workers or former workers to detect unrecognized disease, and for surveillance as a bioassay to detect abnormal exposures. Problems with test variability and the use of radioactivity have recently led to the search for alternative methods.
Confirmation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection by flow cytometry after ex vivo incubation of peripheral blood T cells with an ESAT-6-derived peptide pool.	The presence of a T-cell response to the early secretory antigenic target-6 (ESAT-6) indicates previous infection with or exposure to Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Measuring this response is useful for identifying individuals infected with M. tuberculosis. It was also reported that the frequencies of ESAT-6-specific T cells correlate with disease state. Established procedures measure secreted T-cell cytokines following whole blood stimulation with recombinant ESAT-6 protein or use Elispot as a read-out.
Telomere shortening correlates with prognostic score at diagnosis and proceeds rapidly during progression of chronic myeloid leukemia.	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated increased stem cell turnover. We have previously shown that short telomeres in chronic phase (CP) predict for early progression to blast phase (BP). Poor prognostic score patients may therefore exhibit increased telomere loss at diagnosis and/or a greater than normal rate of loss during the disease course. We prospectively studied newly diagnosed CML patients for degree of telomere loss; measured telomere length in CML patients at all stages of disease; and performed follow-up sampling according to cytogenetic response to imatinib mesylate. Using flow-FISH, telomere length in peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL) from 32 consecutive newly diagnosed patients was measured (with ex-vivo expanded T-cells as an internal BCR-ABL negative control), in addition to 65 samples from all CML stages and 7 paired CP/BP samples. Fifty-five normal individuals served as a control population. Patients who attained either a complete cytogenetic response (CCR, 0% Ph+, n = 10) or no CR (100% Ph+, n = 11) underwent follow-up measurement. All statistical tests were two sided. Telomeres in accelerated phase (AP) and BP patients were significantly shorter than in CP, and mean telomere shortening was significantly greater in high-risk score than low-risk patients (P < 0.05) at diagnosis. The rate of shortening during disease progression was 10-20 times the rate observed in normal granulocytes. BP samples had undergone at least 30-60 additional divisions from baseline Ph- telomere length. Our findings show that telomere shortening in CML is greatest in high-risk score patients at diagnosis, and occurs rapidly during disease progression.
Hypersensitivity to insulin]	GREAT PROGRESS: The use of purified insulins obtained by genetics has dramatically lowered the frequency of insulin hypersensitivity. This frequency has decreased from 1 to 55% with non purified insulins and to 0.1 to 2% with newly generated insulins.
Modulation of intracellular calcium concentrations and T cell activation by prickly pear polyphenols.	Opuntia ficus indica (prickly pear) polyphenolic compounds (OFPC) triggered an increase in [Ca2+]i in human Jurkat T-cell lines. Furthermore, OFPC-induced rise in [Ca2+]i was significantly curtailed in calcium-free buffer (0% Ca2+) as compared to that in 100% Ca2+ medium. Preincubation of cells with tyrphostin A9, an inhibitor of Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ (CRAC) channels, significantly diminished the OFPC-induced sustained response on the increases in [Ca2+]i. Lanthanum and nifedipine, the respective inhibitors of voltage-dependent and L-type calcium channels, failed to curtail significantly the OFPC-induced calcium response. As OFPC still stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i in 0% Ca2+ medium, the role of intracellular calcium was investigated. Hence, addition of thapsigargin (TG), an inhibitor of Ca2+-ATPase of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), during the OFPC-induced peak response exerted an additive effect, indicating that the mechanism of action of these two agents are different. Furthermore, U73122, an inhibitor of IP3 production, completely abolished increases in [Ca2+]i, induced by OFPC, suggesting that these polyphenols induce the production of IP3 that recruits calcium from ER pool. Polyphenolic compounds do act extracellularly as addition of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA) significantly diminished the rise in [Ca2+]i evoked by the formers. OFPC also induced plasma membrane hyperpolarisation which was reversed by addition of BSA. OFPC were found to curtail the expression of IL-2 mRNA and T-cell blastogenesis. Together these results suggest that OFPC induce increases in [Ca2+]i via ER pool and opening of CRAC channels, and exert immunosuppressive effects in Jurkat T-cells.
Application of ricin-immunotoxin mediated T cell depletion to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation]	This study was aimed to investigate the clinical outcome of ricin-immunotoxin mediated T cell partially depleted HLA/MLC mismatched allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 13 patients with hematological malignancies were treated by ricin-immunotoxin mediated T cell partially depleted allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantations from HLA/MLC mismatched donors, including 6 cases of CML in CP(1), 1 case of ALL in CR(1), 1 case of ALL in CR(2), 1 case of ALL in relapse, 2 cases of AML in CR(1), 1 case of AML in CR(2), 1 case of MDS-RAEBT-AML (M(4)) in CR(1). The results showed that 8 cases were engrafted successfully, 2 cases of them developed grade II acute GVHD and 2 cases developed grade III-IV acute GVHD. Within following-up of 8 - 90 months, 2 patients who experienced grade III-IV acute GVHD died early after transplantation; 1 patient died of late onset of infection; the other 5 patients survived free from diseases. After failure at first infusion, 4 patients were given reinfusion of peripheral blood hematopoietic stem cells from the same donor. 3 out of 4 cases failed to engraft and only one patient got engraftment but died of related complications of transplantation. One patient was performed a second transplantation from a syngeneic donor and survive free of disease until now. In conclusion, T cell partially depleted HLA/MLC mismatched allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation by ricin-immunotoxin decreases the occurrence of severe acute GVHD but with high risk of rejection, which clinical outcome still needs further evaluation.
T-cellular energy deficiency in the pathogenesis of immunodeficiency in pulmonary tuberculosis]	The phenotypic and functional properties of T cells were evaluated in patients with tuberculin anergy and a possible role of anergic T cells in the development of immune deficiency in pulmonary tuberculosis (PT) was studied. The profound decrease (more than 50%) depressed T-cell proliferation in PPD-stimulated cultures was shown to be recorded in 44% (59/134) patients with PT. PPD hyporesponsiveness was associated with the low proliferation of anti-CD3 and SEB-stimulated proliferation of a healthy donor's mononuclear cells evidencing the enlargement of anergic T cells with a suppressive activity in PT. A PPD-stimulated response in healthy donors was under the negative control of CG25-positive cells. In the PPD-anergic patients, there was a significant increase in CD4+CD25+ T cells that were inversely correlated with the PPD-induced proliferative response. The development of tuberculin anergy was more pronounced in patients with drug resistance. The intensity of a PPD-stimulated response in patients with tuberculin anergy may be restored in the presence of exogenous interleukin-2.
Modulative influence of lysozyme dimer on defence mechanisms in the carp (Cyprinus carpio) and European sheatfish (Silurus glanis) after suppression induced by herbicide Roundup.	Immunomodulation is a commonly used method of prophylaxis in humans and animals. Lysozyme dimer (KLP-602) was used at a dose of 50 ug/kg b.w. in order to correct the immunosuppression caused by the action of herbicide glyphosate (Roundup- Monsanto), which was used in a single bath for 10 minutes in a concentration of 100 mg/l of water. The investigations were carried out on 2 species of fish: the carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) and european catfish (Silurus glanis L.). Herbicide glyphosate caused a decrease in metabolic and phagocytic activity (RBA and PKA) and in proliferative response stimulated by Con A and LPS in carp and european catfish. The immunosuppression sustained for about 2 weeks. The results obtained indicate the possibility of correction of immunosuppression applying lysozyme dimmer (KLP-602) after use of which, the level of the studied indexes increased.
The lymphocyte transformation test in the diagnosis of drug hypersensitivity.	Diagnosis of drug hypersensitivity is difficult, as an enormous amount of different drugs can elicit various immune-mediated diseases with distinct pathomechanism. The lymphocyte transformation test (LTT) measures the proliferation of T cells to a drug in vitro--from which one concludes to a previous in vivo reaction due to a sensitization. This concept of the LTT has been confirmed by the generation of drug-specific T-cell clones and the finding that drugs can directly interact with the T-cell receptor, without previous metabolism or need to bind to proteins. In this review, technical aspects and usefulness of this test for the diagnosis of drug hypersensitivity are discussed. The main advantage of this test is its applicability with many different drugs in different immune reactions, as drug-specific T cell are almost always involved in drug hypersensitivity reactions. Its main disadvantages are that an in vitro proliferation of T cells to a drug is difficult to transfer to the clinical situation and that the test per se is rather cumbersome and technically demanding. In addition, its sensitivity is limited (for beta-lactam allergy it is in the range of 60-70%), - although at least in our hands - it is higher than of other tests for drug hypersensitivity diagnosis. Consequently, drug hypersensitivity diagnosis needs to rely on a combination of history and different tests, as none of the single tests available has per se a sufficiently good sensitivity. Within this setting, the LTT has proven to be a useful test for the diagnosis of drug hypersensitivity reactions and helped to better understand these reactions. Further work on the simplification of this test and systematic evaluation of its sensitivity and specificity in some main groups of drugs are necessary to make this test more widely available.
Ghrelin inhibits leptin- and activation-induced proinflammatory cytokine expression by human monocytes and T cells.	Ghrelin, a recently described endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R), is produced by stomach cells and is a potent circulating orexigen, controlling energy expenditure, adiposity, and growth hormone secretion. However, the functional role of ghrelin in regulation of immune responses remains undefined. Here we report that GHS-R and ghrelin are expressed in human T lymphocytes and monocytes, where ghrelin acts via GHS-R to specifically inhibit the expression of proinflammatory anorectic cytokines such as IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. Ghrelin led to a dose-dependent inhibition of leptin-induced cytokine expression, while leptin upregulated GHS-R expression on human T lymphocytes. These data suggest the existence of a reciprocal regulatory network by which ghrelin and leptin control immune cell activation and inflammation. Moreover, ghrelin also exerts potent anti-inflammatory effects and attenuates endotoxin-induced anorexia in a murine endotoxemia model. We believe this to be the first report demonstrating that ghrelin functions as a key signal, coupling the metabolic axis to the immune system, and supporting the potential use of ghrelin and GHS-R agonists in the management of disease-associated cachexia.
T lymphocyte activation initiates the degradation of the CD62L encoding mRNA and increases the transcription of the corresponding gene.	Following T-cell activation, CD62L, a member of the selectin family of cell adhesion molecules, is proteolytically cleaved by a constitutive endoprotease and subsequently re-expressed. To define whether the cleavage regulates CD62L gene transcription, we have analyzed the outcome of T-cell activation on the level of CD62L gene transcription and mRNA stability. Here, we report that CD62L shedding correlates with the concomitant upregulation of CD62L gene transcription and the rapid degradation of the corresponding mRNA. Novel protein synthesis is not required for CD62L gene upregulation, mRNA degradation or protein shedding. The three events are insensitive to cyclosporin A (CSA) and, thus, do not depend on the calcineurin signaling pathway. Activation of T cells in presence of a metallo-protease inhibitor, that protects CD62L shedding, does not prevent CD62L gene upregulation or mRNA degradation. In contrast induction of CD62L shedding by the chemically-induced dissociation of calmodulin from the CD62L cytosolic tail, in absence of T-cell activation, has no consequences on the levels of CD62L gene transcription or mRNA accumulation. These data demonstrate that the transcriptional and post-transcriptional events are exclusively regulated by T-cell activation and not by the CD62L density on cell membrane.
The endocrine disruptors nonylphenol and octylphenol exert direct effects on T cells to suppress Th1 development and enhance Th2 development.	Some endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have been evidenced to affect cytokine production and lymphocyte proliferation. However, it is unknown whether EDCs disturb Th1/Th2 development. We chose alkylphenols that have been widely used as plastic additives and surfactants, and some of them are recognized as xenoestrogens. We examined whether they exert direct effects on T cells to suppress or enhance Th1/Th2 development. We used two experimental systems with isolated T cells in vitro. In one system, isolated CD4+CD8+ thymocytes differentiated into Th1 and Th2 by two transient stimulations and cytokine treatment. In the second system, purified nave CD4+ T cells from DO11.10 T cell receptor-transgenic and RAG-2-deficient mice differentiate into Th1 and Th2 by the treatment with cytokines and antibodies to CD3 and CD28. In both systems, 1-10 microM of p-n-nonylphenol suppressed Th1 development and enhanced Th2 development, whereas estrogen by itself failed to affect Th1/Th2 development. p-n-Octylphenol elicited similar effects, but 4-nonylphenol and p-t-octylphenol elicited much weaker effects. p-n-Dodecylphenol or p-n-octylbenzene failed to affect Th1/Th2 development. Thus, the length and branching of the alkyl side chain appeared to affect the activity. Although some alkylphenols have been suggested to have a weak affinity to retinoic acid receptors (RAR) or progesterone receptor (PRGR), antagonists of RAR, PRGR, glucocorticoid receptor (GCR), or retinoid X receptors (RXR) failed to inhibit the activity. These results suggest that p-n-nonylphenol and p-n-octylphenol directly suppress Th1 development and enhance Th2 development through mechanisms independent of estrogen receptors, RAR, RXR, PRGR, and GCR.
FTY720-enhanced T cell homing is dependent on CCR2, CCR5, CCR7, and CXCR4: evidence for distinct chemokine compartments.	FTY720 stimulates CCR7-driven T cell homing to peripheral lymph nodes (LN) by direct activation of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptors, along with the participation of multidrug transporters, 5-lipoxygenase, and G protein-coupled receptors for chemokines. In this study, we demonstrate that FTY720 also directly stimulates in vitro T cell chemotaxis to CCR2-CCL2, but not to a variety of other chemokines, including CCR5-CCL3/4/5 and CXCR4-CXCL12. FTY720 influences CCR2-CCL2-driven migration through activation of the multidrug transporters, Abcb1 and Abcc1, and through 5-lipoxygenase activity. In vivo administration of FTY720 induces chemokine-dependent migration of T cells in the thymus, peripheral blood, LN, and spleen. The CCR7 and CCR2 chemokine ligands are required for both T cell sequestration in LN and thymic T cell egress following FTY720 administration. Furthermore, FTY720 administration uncovers a requirement for CXCR4 ligands for LN homing, but not for thymic egress, and CCR5 for thymic egress, but not LN homing. FTY720-driven splenic and peripheral blood T cell egress are both independent of CCR2, CCR5, CCR7, or CXCR4. These results indicate that FTY720- and sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor-stimulated T cell migration are dependent on the restricted usage of chemokine receptor-ligand pairs within discrete anatomic compartments.
Nitric oxide regulates immune cell bioenergetic: a mechanism to understand immunomodulatory functions of nitric oxide-releasing anti-inflammatory drugs.	The 2-(acetyloxy)benzoic acid 3-(nitrooxymethyl)phenyl ester (NCX-4016) is a NO-releasing derivative of aspirin. In this study, we provide evidence that NCX-4016 delivered to PMBC-derived T lymphocytes and monocytes causes a transitory inhibition of cell respiration and approximately 50% reduction of cellular ATP, which translates in a time-reversible inhibition of cell proliferation and IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, and IFN-gamma secretion. Exposure of lymphocytes and monocytes to aspirin, 2-(acetyloxy)benzoic acid 3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl ester (NCX-4017), a non-NO-releasing analog of NCX-4016, and cyclooxygenase inhibitors, reduced PG formation, but has no effect on cytokine/chemokine release. In contrast, delivering NO with (z)-1-[2-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino] diazen-1-ium-1,2 diolate (DETA-NO) reproduced most of the metabolic and anti-cytokine activities of NCX-4016. Scavenging NO with hemoglobin or adding selective substrates of complex II, III, and IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain reverses NCX-4016' inhibitory activities. Exposure to DETA-NO and NCX-4016 enhances glucose uptake, glycolytic rate, and lactate generation in CD3/CD28-costimulated lymphocytes, while reduced citric acid cycle intermediates. These effects were not reproduced by selective and nonselective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors. In summary, we demonstrated that exposure of lymphocytes to NCX-4016 causes a metabolic hypoxia that inhibits lymphocyte reactivity to costimulatory molecules, providing a potential counteregulatory mechanism to control activated immune system.
Suppression of ongoing adjuvant-induced arthritis by neutralizing the function of the p28 subunit of IL-27.	IL-27 is a recently defined family member of the long-chain four-helix bundle cytokines, which consists of EBI3, an IL-12p40-related protein, and p28, an IL-12p35-related polypeptide. The role of IL-27 in the regulation of inflammatory autoimmune diseases has never been studied. The current study uses the DNA vaccination technology, and highly specific Abs to the p28 subunit of IL-27 that were generated by this technology, to delineate its role in the regulation of adjuvant-induced arthritis in Lewis rats. Neutralizing the in vivo function of IL-27 by targeted DNA vaccines and by Abs against IL-27 p28 that were produced in protected donors could rapidly suppress an ongoing disease. Disease suppression was associated with a reduced ex vivo production of inflammatory cytokines. We then used these Abs to investigate the mechanistic basis of disease suppression, showing that IL-27 is not only involved in directing the polarization of naive T cells, but also affects the proliferative response and cytokine production of Ag-specific effector/memory Th1 cells. This may explain, in part, its important role in the regulation of inflammatory autoimmune diseases, and also suggest novel ways of therapy.
Antineuroinflammatory effect of NF-kappaB essential modifier-binding domain peptides in the adoptive transfer model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis.	It has been shown that peptides corresponding to the NF-kappaB essential modifier-binding domain (NBD) of IkappaB kinase alpha or IkappaB kinase beta specifically inhibit the induction of NF-kappaB activation without inhibiting the basal NF-kappaB activity. The present study demonstrates the effectiveness of NBD peptides in inhibiting the disease process in adoptively transferred experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Clinical symptoms of EAE were much lower in mice receiving wild-type (wt)NBD peptides compared with those receiving mutated (m)NBD peptides. Histological and immunocytochemical analysis showed that wtNBD peptides inhibited EAE-induced spinal cord mononuclear cell invasion and normalized p65 (the RelA subunit of NF-kappaB) expression within the spinal cord. Analysis of lymph node cells isolated from donor and recipient mice showed that wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides were able to shift the immune response from a Th1 to a Th2 profile. Consistently, wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides inhibited the encephalitogenicity of myelin basic protein-specific T cells. Furthermore, i.p. injection of wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides was also able to reduce LPS- and IFN-gamma-induced expression of inducible NO synthase, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha in vivo in the cerebellum. Taken together, our results support the conclusion that NBD peptides are antineuroinflammatory, and that NBD peptides may have therapeutic effect in neuroinflammatory disorders such as multiple sclerosis.
IL-15 and the initiation of cell contact-dependent synovial fibroblast-T lymphocyte cross-talk in rheumatoid arthritis: effect of methotrexate.	To characterize the molecules responsible for synovial fibroblast-T lymphocyte (TL) cross-talk in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), synovial fibroblasts from patients with established RA (RASFibs) were cocultured with TLs from peripheral blood of early RA patients (RAPBTL). TLs from peripheral blood of healthy controls and from synovial fluid of RA served as controls. Adhesion molecules and cytokines were determined by flow cytometry, ELISA, and real-time PCR. RAPBTL (n = 20) induced an up-regulation of ICAM-1, intracellular IL-8, IL-6, IL-15, and surface IL-15 in cocultured RASFibs. In turn, RAPBTL showed an up-regulation of TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-17, CD25, and CD69 expression. Responses seen with TLs from peripheral blood of healthy controls (n = 20) were significantly lower, whereas responses with TLs from synovial fluid of RA (n = 20) were maximal. Blocking Abs to IL-15 and CD54, but not an isotype-control Ab, down-regulated the increased TL cytokine and activation marker expression. Abs to CD69, CD11a, IL-17, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma significantly decreased the up-regulation of RASFib cytokine and CD54 expression. Cocultures using 0.4- micro m inserts did not result in up-regulation of surface molecules or cytokines. Methotrexate significantly inhibited RASFib/TL cross-talk signals and decreased adhesion of TL to RASFibs. In summary, RASFib production of IL-15 induces the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and IL-17 in cocultured TLs through a cell contact-dependent mechanism. In turn, these cytokines stimulate the expression of IL-15, IL-8, and IL-6 in RASFibs, thereby creating a feedback loop that favors persistent synovial inflammation. Methotrexate seems to disrupt this loop by decreasing cell adhesion.
Immunotherapy of cancer using systemically delivered gene-modified human T lymphocytes.	The use of gene-engineered T cells expressing chimeric single-chain (scFv) receptors capable of codelivering CD28 costimulation and T cell receptor zeta chain (TCR-zeta) activation signals has emerged as a promising treatment regimen for cancer. Using retroviral transduction, primary human T lymphocytes were gene-engineered to express the scFv-CD28-zeta chimeric receptor reactive with the ErbB2 tumor-associated antigen. We demonstrated the ability of these gene-engineered human T cells to produce high levels of cytokines, proliferate vigorously, and mediate lysis of ErbB2(+) tumors in an antigen-specific manner. Furthermore, such gene-engineered human T cells significantly delayed the growth of two distinct subcutaneous ErbB2(+) human tumors in irradiated nonobese diabetic-severe combined immunodeficient (NOD-SCID) mice after systemic administration. These preclinical studies are an important proof of principle that human T cells may be genetically redirected to tumors in cancer patients.
New advances and potential therapies for the treatment of asthma.	Asthma is a disease of the airways with an underlying inflammatory component. The prevalence and healthcare burden of asthma is still rising and is predicted to continue to rise in the current century. Inhaled beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonists and corticosteroids form the basis of the treatments available to alleviate the symptoms of asthma. There is a need for novel, safe treatments to tackle the underlying inflammation that characterizes asthma pathology. Furthermore, there is a requirement for new treatments to be developed as oral therapy in order to alleviate patient compliance issues, especially in children. A multitude of new approaches and new targets are being investigated, which may provide opportunities for novel therapeutic interventions in this debilitating disease. For simplicity, these approaches can be divided into two categories. The first comprises therapies directed against specific components or steps seen in allergic asthma. By 'components' we mean the key inflammatory cells (T cells [in particular T(h)2], B cells, eosinophils, mast cells, basophils and antigen presenting cells [APC]) and mediators (immunoglobulin E [IgE], cytokines, histamines, leukotrienes and prostanoids) believed to be involved in the chronic inflammation seen in asthma. By 'steps' we mean the allergic response, such as antigen processing and presentation, T(h)2-cell activation, B-cell isotype switching, mast cell involvement and airway remodeling. The other category of novel approaches to disease modification in asthma encompasses general anti-inflammatory therapies including phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitors, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonists, and lipoxins.
Maturation of dendritic cells by bacterial immunomodulators.	Dendritic cells (DC) become fully functional upon maturation by various stimuli. We tested whether an immunostimulatory effect of clinically used immunomodulators (Luivac, Biostim, Ribomunyl, Imudon, Bronchovaxom) is caused by direct DC activation. We found that Luivac, Biostim and Ribomunyl have a very high DC stimulatory potential in vitro. The level of DC activation was comparable or higher than DC maturation induced by standard maturation stimuli, Poly (I:C) or lipopolysaccharide. Treated DC had activated phenotype, reduced phagocytic activity and they induced the proliferation of allogeneic T lymphocytes. These results are important for understanding the physiology of action of these widely prescribed agents. Administration of bacterial immunomodulators should be considered with care to avoid the potential risk of inducing an autoimmune disease. They could also be used as well-defined maturating agents in the protocols used for the ex vivo production of DC-based vaccines for clinical trials.
HIV-1 Tat increases the adhesion of monocytes and T-cells to the endothelium in vitro and in vivo: implications for AIDS-associated vasculopathy.	HIV-1-infected patients exhibit severe damages of the aortic endothelium, develop angioproliferative lesions such as Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), and have an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases and atherosclerosis. An increased adhesion of leukocytes to the endothelium is a common pathogenic parameter of AIDS-associated vascular diseases. Here we show that the HIV-1 Tat protein, a regulatory protein of HIV-1 released by infected cells, and TNF-alpha, a cytokine increased in sera and tissues of HIV-1-infected patients, activate synergistically the adhesion of leukocytes to endothelial cells both in vitro and in vivo. This effect is selectively mediated by HIV-1 Tat, since HIV-1 Nef, another HIV-1 regulatory protein, and the HIV-1 envelope protein gp41, had no effect. In vitro adhesion assays with PBMC and quantitative cell type analysis of adherent cells by FACS demonstrated that HIV-1 Tat selectively activates the adhesion of T-cells and monocytes but not of B-cells. Intravital microscopic studies in mice confirmed the synergistic activity of HIV-1 Tat and TNF-alpha on leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium in vivo. These data indicate that HIV-1 Tat in cooperation with TNF-alpha may contribute to the vascular damage and cardiovascular diseases observed in AIDS patients but also to the prominent extravasation of T-cells and monocytes which is a key process in the formation and progression of KS lesions.
A study on the immune receptors for polysaccharides from the roots of Astragalus membranaceus, a Chinese medicinal herb.	The immunopotentiating effect of the roots of Astragalus membranaceus, a medicinal herb, has been associated with its polysaccharide fractions (Astragalus polysaccharides, APS). We herein demonstrate that APS activates mouse B cells and macrophages, but not T cells, in terms of proliferation or cytokine production. Fluorescence-labeled APS (fl-APS) was able to selectively stain murine B cells, macrophages and a also human tumor cell line, THP-1, as determined in flow cytometric analysis and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The specific binding of APS to B cells and macrophages was competitively inhibited by bacterial lipopolysaccharides. Rabbit-anti-mouse immunoglobulin (Ig) antibody was able to inhibit APS-induced proliferation of, and APS binding to, mouse B cells. Additionally, APS effectively stimulated the proliferation of splenic B cells from C3H/HeJ mice that have a mutated TLR4 molecule incapable of signal transduction. These results indicate that APS activates B cells via membrane Ig in a TLR4-independent manner. Interestingly, macrophages from C3H/HeJ mice were unable to respond to APS stimulation, suggesting a positive involvement of the TLR4 molecule in APS-mediated macrophage activation. Monoclonal Ab against mouse TLR4 partially inhibited APS binding with macrophages, implying direct interaction between APS and TLR4 on cell surface. These results may have important implications for our understanding on the molecular mechanisms of immunopotentiating polysaccharides from medicinal herbs.
Evaluation of immunotoxicity induced by propoxure in C57Bl/6 mice.	Insecticides are important candidates for immunotoxicology tests in order to assess the 'No Observable Adverse Effect Level' (NOAEL). Propoxure (PPX), as a carbamate household insecticide, has been used for several decades around the world in agriculture. However, there has been no clear investigation on its immunotoxic potentials. In this study, as Tier I of immunotoxicological screening tests, we examined the effects of subacute exposure to intraperitoneally (i.p.) administered PPX, at doses of 10, 2, and 0.2 mg/kg, on C57Bl/6 female mice. After 28 days administration of PPX, the treated animals were sacrificed and peripheral blood samples were collected. Then spleen (SP), thymus (TM), and bone marrow were collected and weighed. Functional tests including SRBC-hemagglutination (HA), plaque-forming colony assay (PFC), and delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) response to SRBCs were performed. Furthermore, spleen T-cell phenotype (CD4/CD8) was also determined. Results showed that high doses of PPX could not only produce histopathological changes in TM and SP but also suppress humoral response to antigen (SRBCs). PPX at medium doses (2 mg/kg) did not show histopathological changes in TM or SP but increased the humoral response to SRBCs, as identified by HA and PFC tests. PPX at low doses (0.2 mg/kg) did not produce any significant changes in humoral (PFC and HA) or cellular responses (DTH) of the immune system. It seems that PPX has no adverse effects on mice immune system at low doses of 0.2 mg/kg/day, which is 10 times the PPX allowed daily intake (ADI) limit.
Macrophage production of inflammatory mediators is potently inhibited by a butyric acid derivative demonstrated to inactivate antigen-stimulated T cells.	The butyric acid derivative, 2-(4-morpholynl) ethyl butyrate hydrochloride (MEB), has been reported to induce antigen-specific T cell unresponsiveness and to block T cell-mediated graft-versus-host disease. As a potential therapeutic agent, it was important to determine the effects of MEB on other cells that contribute to immunopathology. Accordingly, we tested the effects of MEB on macrophage functions. MEB did not affect macrophage viability, phagocytic activity, or the activation-induced up-regulation of molecules associated with antigen presentation: MHC-II, CD86, CD40, or ICAM-1. However, MEB potently inhibited activation-induced production of inflammatory mediators, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-6, chemokine CCL2 and nitric oxide (NO). MEB inhibited the induction of NO synthase (NOS2), which is necessary for inducible NO, and inhibited nuclear translocation of NFkappaB, suggesting that MEB interferes with the signaling pathway involved in NOS2 induction. Thus, while inducing specific T cell unresponsiveness, MEB also exerts anti-inflammatory activity by acting on macrophages to suppress production of cytokines and NO.
Yin zi huang, an injectable multicomponent chinese herbal medicine, is a potent inhibitor of T-cell activation.	The clinical efficacy of many multiherbal Traditional Chinese Medicines (TCM) is partially attributable to their immunoregulatory properties. In this study we evaluated the effect of eight commonly used, commercially available multiherbal Chinese medicines on T-cell activation. We focused on Yin Zhi Huang (YZH, an injectable herbal medicine commonly used for the treatment of liver diseases in China), because it was the most potent inhibitor of T-cell activation in our experimental system. The effects of 10 ingredient components of YZH were also evaluated.
Molecular regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and lymphotoxin production in T cells. Inhibition by prostaglandin E2.	The effects of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and other eicosanoids were determined on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and lymphotoxin (LT; TNF-beta) production by murine Th1, antigen-specific major histocompatibility complex class II-restricted T cell clones. T cells activated with immobilized anti-CD3 or with soluble concanavalin A (ConA) produced approximately 100-1,000 units/ml TNF-alpha/LT as determined by cytotoxicity against the WEHI-164 murine fibrosarcoma cell line. TNF-alpha/LT biological activity was induced rapidly with significant production evident approximately 4 h after stimulation with either anti-CD3 or ConA. PGE2 inhibited the anti-CD3- and ConA-induced production of TNF-alpha/LT bioactivity in a dose-dependent manner. Incubation with 1 x 10(-9) M PGE2 inhibited production of TNF-alpha/LT biological activity from anti-CD-activated F1.28, or 450A.1 T cell clones by approximately 50%. Incubation with 1 x 10(-7) M PGE2 resulted in 90% inhibition of biological activity. PGE2 also inhibited both TNF-alpha and LT mRNA accumulation by more than 90%. These results suggest that the reduced production of cytotoxic activity in the presence of PGE2 was caused by the inhibition of both TNF-alpha and LT. No inhibition of T cell TNF-alpha or LT production was observed when anti-CD3- or ConA-activated cells were incubated with PGD2, PGF2 alpha, 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid or leukotriene C4. Nuclear run-on experiments indicated that the PGE2-mediated decrease of TNF-alpha and LT mRNA accumulation was caused, in part, by an inhibitory effect on the transcription of these genes. This is the first report of PGE2-mediated inhibition of TNF-alpha in T cells and PGE2-mediated inhibition of LT production in any cell type.
In vitro and in vivo immunomodulatory activity of ST 789 on two human lymphoblastic T cell lines.	The immunomodulatory activity of the synthetic derivative, N-alpha-5(1,6-dihydro-6-oxo-9-purinyl) pentyloxy-carbonyl-L-arginine (ST 789) has been evaluated by using two human T-cell lines stabilized in our laboratory from the pleural effusion fluid of a patient with acute T lymphoblastic leukemia and from the lymph node biopsy of a child with convoluted T-cell lymphoma, respectively. In vitro, ST 789 did not substantially modify the expression of membrane antigens and the proliferation of both lines, whereas their growth in immunosuppressed nude mice was hampered by the local injection of 0.1 microgram/mouse ST 789 for ten days. The combined administration of ST 789 with human peripheral blood polymorphonuclear cells completely inhibited the in vivo tumorigenicity of the T lymphoma. These in vivo findings show that the antitumor action displayed by ST 789 is probably due to its boosting of natural mechanisms.
Limited immunotoxic potential of technical formulation of the herbicide atrazine (AAtrex) in mice.	Immunotoxicity of the technical atrazine formulation, AAtrex, was examined in C57Bl/6 female mice following a sublethal exposure to equivalent 1/2-1.64 LD50 doses of the herbicide. Animal weight was not affected by the herbicide exposure. No dose-related changes could be concluded for fluctuations in organ weight, changes in the spleen cell number and cell viability. Furthermore, cytofluorometric studies showed no significant changes in the frequency of L3T4-positive and Lyt-2-positive T-cells. Functional in vitro assays of mitogen activation showed no marked effects of AAtrex exposure on lymphocyte stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and concanavalin A (Con-A). In addition, sublethal exposure to AAtrex did not affect interleukin-2 (IL-2) production by splenic cells. Furthermore, no dose-related effect could be concluded from a transient suppression of a primary humoral IgM response to sheep erythrocytes (SRBC) as well as from a transient inhibition of a specific T-cell response to alloantigens in mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). Exposure to equiv. 1/2-1/16 LD50 doses augmented phagocytic activity of peritoneal macrophages, without any visible AAtrex dose-related effect. Normal humoral and cellular responses were restored at 14-40 days after the herbicide exposure. Overall, transient and reversible immunosuppression of humoral-mediated and cell-mediated responses and activated macrophage phagocytic activity could not be attributed to the direct chemical-related effect of sublethal exposure to AAtrex.
Risk assessment in immunotoxicology. I. Sensitivity and predictability of immune tests.	We have previously reported on the design and content of a screening battery involving a "tier" approach for detecting potential immunotoxic compounds in mice (Luster et al., 1988, Fundam. Appl. Toxicol. 10, 2-19). This battery has now been utilized to examine a variety of compounds by the NIEHS Immunotoxicology Laboratory, the National Toxicology Program-sponsored laboratories, and by the Cell Biology Department at the Chemical Industry Institute of Toxicology. The database generated from these studies, which consists of over 50 selected compounds, has been collected and analyzed in an attempt to improve future testing strategies and provide information to aid in quantitative risk assessment for immunotoxicity. Studies presented here have established the ability of each of the tests or test combinations in the screening battery to detect immunotoxic compounds. Efforts are currently underway using this database to determine the relationships between these immune tests and susceptibility to challenge with infectious agents or transplantable tumor cells. The present analyses indicated that the performance of only two or three immune tests are sufficient to predict immunotoxic compounds in rodents (greater than 90% concordance). The tests that showed the highest association with immunotoxicity were the splenic antibody plaque forming cell response (78%) and cell surface marker analysis (83%). The relationship between immunotoxicity and carcinogenicity, as well as genotoxicity, was also determined. These analyses suggested that potential immunotoxic compounds are likely to be rodent carcinogens (p = 0.019) although for compounds that are not immunotoxic the carcinogenic status is unclear. There was no relationship observed between immunotoxicity and mutagenicity as determined using in vitro genotoxicity tests. The significance of these observations is discussed in terms of the relationship between immunotoxicity tests and biological/toxicological processes concerned with human health (e.g., infectious disease).
Poly I:C induces development of diabetes mellitus in BB rat.	Polyinosinic polycytidilic acid (poly I:C), an inducer of alpha-interferon, accelerates the development of diabetes in diabetes-prone (DP) BioBreeding (BB) rats. This study investigates the effect of administering poly I:C to a diabetes-resistant (DR) strain of BB rats. We compared the incidence of diabetes, the degree of insulitis, the number of NK cells, helper-inducer cells, cytotoxic-suppressor cells, Ia+ T cells, RT6.1+ T cells, and NK cell bioactivity in DR rats treated with saline and with a 5 micrograms/g body wt (poly-5) dose and a 10 micrograms/g body wt (poly-10) dose of poly I:C. The incidence of diabetes was also compared with that of DP rats receiving poly-5. We found that both doses of poly I:C significantly induce the development of diabetes in the DR BB rat. However, treatment of DR rats with the higher dose induces a greater rate of development of diabetes and earlier onset of diabetes than the lower poly-5 dose. The rate of diabetes development and the mean age of onset were similar in poly-10-treated DR and poly-5-treated DP rats. A significant degree of insulitis occurred in all the poly I:C-treated DR rats, even those not developing diabetes. Peripheral blood NK cell number was greater in poly I:C than in saline-treated rats, after 2 wk of treatment and when killed. The percentage of OX19+ peripheral blood mononuclear cells expressing RT6.1 allotype or Ia antigen were similar in poly I:C- and saline-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A hepatitis C virus-encoded, nonstructural protein (NS3) triggers dysfunction and apoptosis in lymphocytes: role of NADPH oxidase-derived oxygen radicals.	The persistent infection caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV) is presumably explained by a deficient immune response to the infection, but the basis for the inefficiency of immune-mediated virus eradication is not known in detail. This study addresses mechanisms of relevance to dysfunction of cytotoxic lymphocytes in HCV infection, with a focus on the role of phagocyte-derived oxygen radicals. We show that NS3, a nonstructural, HCV-encoded protein, induces a prolonged release of oxygen radicals from mononuclear and polymorphnuclear phagocytes by activating a key enzyme in radical formation, the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. The NS3-activated phagocytes, in turn, induced dysfunction and/or apoptosis in three major subsets of lymphocytes of relevance to defense against HCV infection: CD3+/56- T cells, CD3-/56+ natural killer (NK) cells, and CD3+/56+ NKT cells. Two inhibitors of the NADPH oxidase, histamine and diphenylene iodonium, suppressed the NS3-induced oxygen radical production and efficiently protected lymphocytes against NS3-induced apoptosis and dysfunction. In conclusion, we propose that NS3, by triggering oxygen radical formation in phagocytes, may contribute to the dysfunction of antiviral lymphocytes in HCV-infected liver tissue and that strategies to circumvent oxidative stress may be useful in preventing HCV-associated carcinogenesis and facilitating lymphocyte-mediated clearance of infected cells.
Study on pancreatic lymphatics in nonobese diabetic mouse with prevention of insulitis and diabetes by adjuvant immunotherapy.	The present study has investigated the relationship between pancreatic lymphatics, infiltrating cells, and insulitic development after a single injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) given at an early age in the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. No CFA-treated NOD mice developed hyperglycemia, whereas most CFA-untreated mice died of diabetes at the age of 20-30 weeks. In untreated NOD mice, the increased infiltration of dendritic cells (DCs) and T-lymphocytes into the pancreatic islets appeared to be consistent with the increased expression of the secondary lymphoid chemokine (CCL21) and CD(31) by the endothelial cell lining of inter- and intralobular lymphatics. As the infiltration became severe, the reaction products of CCL21 and CD(31) were distributed in the nucleus and cytoplasm of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs), through which DCs and T-lymphocytes migrated frequently. Administration of CFA reduced the number of infiltrating DCs and T-lymphocytes, but did not affect macrophage infiltration. The peri-insulitis occurred in numerous islets of CFA-treated NOD mice without the appearance of the intraislet infiltration and islet-associated lymphoid-like tissues. Furthermore, significant suppression of CCL21 and CD(31) was demonstrated on the infiltrating cells to the islets and islet-associated lymphatics. The abluminal endothelial cell lining of lymphatic vessels exhibited weaker immunoreactivity of CCL21 and CD(31) in comparison with the luminal surfaces. The reaction product of 5'-nucleotidase (5'-Nase) was evenly deposited on LECs, which were the absence of open junctions, cytoplasmic protrusions, and vesicles. CFA treatment influenced the migratory processes of the infiltrating cell, which were closely related with structural changes of pancreatic lymphatics and inhibited insulitic development. These findings suggest that in CFA-treated NOD mice, the suppression of insulitis and prevention of diabetes are secondary to the functional modulation of pancreatic lymphatics and infiltrating cells.
Selective inhibition of inflammatory gene expression in activated T lymphocytes: a mechanism of immune suppression by thiopurines.	Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine are antimetabolite thiopurine drugs that play important roles in the treatment of leukemia and in the management of conditions requiring immunosuppression, such as inflammatory bowel disease. The biochemical pharmacology of these drugs suggests that inhibition of purine nucleotide formation through the 6-thioguanine nucleotide metabolites is their key molecular mechanism. However, it is unclear how these metabolites suppress immunity. We hypothesized that azathioprine produces a selective inhibitory effect on activated but not quiescent T lymphocytes. We first established a model system of T lymphocyte culture with azathioprine that produced pharmacologically relevant concentrations of 6-thioguanine nucleotides. Using genome-wide expression profiling, we identified a group of azathioprine-regulated genes in quiescent and activated T lymphocytes. Several genes involved in immunity and inflammation were selectively down-regulated by azathioprine in stimulated but not quiescent cells. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for three of these genes, tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 7, and alpha4-integrin, confirmed down-regulated expression of transcript levels. Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand protein expression was further studied and found to be inhibited by azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and 6-thioguanine, implying that the inhibitory effects of azathioprine on expression are mediated by 6-thioguanine nucleotides. These results therefore provide a previously unrecognized molecular mechanism for the immunosuppressive properties of thiopurine antimetabolite drugs.
Differential regulation of virus-specific T-cell effector functions following activation by peptide or innate cytokines.	Robust CD8(+) T-cell activation is vital for the recovery from many viral infections and is orchestrated via the integration of signals delivered through surface molecules, including the T-cell antigen receptors (TcRs) and cytokine receptors. Little is known about how virus-specific T cells interpret sequential or combined stimulation through these receptors, which must undoubtedly occur in vivo during antiviral immune responses. When measured in real time, peptide antigen and the cytokines, interleukin 12 (IL-12) and IL-18, independently regulate the on/off kinetics of protective (interferon gamma, tumor necrosis factor alpha) and immunomodulatory (IL-2, CD40L) cytokine production by activated T cells and memory T cells. The remarkable differences in effector functions elicited by innate or adaptive signals (IL-12/ IL-18 or peptide, respectively) illustrate the complex and stringent regulation of cytokine expression by CD8(+) T cells. Together, these results indicate how antiviral T cells incorporate multiple signals from their local microenvironment and tailor their cytokine responses accordingly.
Anti-human CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody promotes T-cell expansion and immunity in a hu-PBL-SCID model: a new method for preclinical screening of costimulatory monoclonal antibodies.	When adopting basic principles learned in mice to clinical application in humans, it is often difficult to distinguish whether a "translation" fails because of an invalid target in the human disease or because the therapeutic agents are not optimal for the human target. It is, therefore, desirable to develop preclinical models to optimize therapies for human targets using in vivo settings. Although anti-mouse CTLA-4 antibodies are known to enhance immune responses in vivo, their effect on T-cell activation in vitro ranges from enhancement to inhibition. Here we use the hu-PBL-SCID mouse model of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated lymphoma development to screen a panel of anti-human CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) for their effect on human lymphocytes in an in vivo "humanized" environment. We report significant heterogeneity of anti-human CTLA-4 mAbs in enhancing the expansion of human T cells in mice, and this heterogeneity cannot be attributed to immunoglobulin isotypes or affinity for CTLA-4. These data validate the development of additional screening tools, such as the one described, to further characterize functional activity of antihuman antibodies before proceeding with clinical translation to human studies.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin enhances negative selection of T cells in the thymus but allows autoreactive T cells to escape deletion and migrate to the periphery.	Exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), an environmental pollutant, has been shown to cause thymic atrophy and apoptosis. However, whether TCDD alters the process of T-cell selection in the thymus is not clear. To this end, we investigated the effects of TCDD in the context of the HY-T-cell receptor (TCR) transgenic (Tg) mouse model. We noted that negatively selecting male HY-TCR Tg mice were significantly more sensitive to the thymotoxic effects of TCDD relative to positively selecting female HY-TCR Tg mice, including increased reduction in cellularity and increased induction of apoptosis. TCDD exposure also altered the thymocyte subset composition in HY-TCR Tg male but not female mice. In addition, TCDD treatment resulted in increased extracellularly regulated kinase phosphorylation and lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase expression in thymocytes of HY-TCR Tg male but not female mice. The increase in proportion of CD8+ mature thymocytes noted in HY-TCR Tg male mice was reflected in the periphery, with TCDD-exposed HY-TCR Tg male mice having increased numbers of CD8+ T cells. Finally, we noted that the proliferative response of HY-TCR Tg male T cells to HY(self)-Ag was enhanced after exposure to TCDD, whereas that of HY-TCR Tg female mice was decreased. Taken together, these data suggest that TCDD alters the process of thymic selection, possibly by enhancing negative thymocyte selection, whereas at the same time allowing autoreactive T cells to escape deletion in the thymus and immigrate to the periphery.
Plant alkaloid tetrandrine downregulates IkappaBalpha kinases-IkappaBalpha-NF-kappaB signaling pathway in human peripheral blood T cell.	Plant alkaloid tetrandrine (Tet), purified from Chinese herb Han-Fang Chi, is a potent immunomodulator used to treat rheumatic disorders, silicosis and hypertension in mainland China. We previously demonstrated that Tet effectively suppresses cytokine production and proliferation of CD28-costimulated T cells. In the present study, we investigated the possible involvement of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) transcription factors, critical in CD28 costimulation, in Tet-mediated immunosuppression in human peripheral blood T cells. We showed that Tet inhibited NF-kappaB DNA-binding activities induced by various stimuli, including CD28 costimulation. At equal molar concentrations, Tet was as strong as methotrexate in suppressing CD28-costimulated NF-kappaB activities. Since Tet itself did not affect NF-kappaB binding to its corresponding DNA sequence, the results suggested that Tet might regulate NF-kappaB upstream signaling molecules. Further studies demonstrated that Tet could prevent the degradation of IkappaBalpha and inhibit nuclear translocation of p65 by blocking IkappaBalpha kinases alpha and beta activities. In addition, the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases such as c-jun N-terminal kinase, p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase and activator protein-1 DNA-binding activity were all downregulated by Tet. Transfection assays performed in purified human peripheral blood T cells also confirmed the inhibition of NF-kappaB transcriptional activity by Tet. When four Tet analogues were readily compared, dauricine appeared to preserve the most potent inhibition on CD28-costimulated but not on H(2)O(2)-induced NF-kappaB DNA-binding activities. Our results provide the molecular basis of immunomodulation of Tet for being a potential disease-modifying antirheumatic drug in the therapy of autoimmune disorders like rheumatoid arthritis.
Neuroimmunoprotective effects of estrogen and derivatives in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis: therapeutic implications for multiple sclerosis.	The extensive literature and the work from our laboratory illustrate the large number of complex processes affected by estrogen that might contribute to the striking ability of 17beta-estradiol (E2) and its derivatives to inhibit clinical and histological signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice. These effects require sustained exposure to relatively low doses of exogenous hormone and offer better protection when initiated prior to induction of EAE. However, oral ethinyl estradiol (EE) and fluasterone, which lacks estrogenic side effects, could partially reverse clinical EAE when given after the onset of disease. The three main areas discussed in this review include E2-mediated inhibition of encephalitogenic T cells, inhibition of cell migration into central nervous system tissue, and neuroprotective effects that promote axon and myelin survival. E2 effects on EAE were mediated through Esr1 (alpha receptor for E2) but not Esr2 (beta receptor for E2), as were its antiinflammatory and neuroprotective effects. A novel finding is that E2 up-regulated the expression of Foxp3 and CTLA-4 that contribute to the activity of CD4+CD25+ Treg cells. The protective effects of E2 in EAE suggest its use as therapy for MS, although the risk of cardiovascular disease may complicate treatment in postmenopausal women. This risk could be minimized by using subpregnancy levels of exogenous E2 that produced synergistic effects when used in combination another immunoregulatory therapy. Alternatively, one might envision using EE or fluasterone metabolites alone or in combination therapies in both male and female MS patients.
Interleukin-12-induced interferon-gamma production by human peripheral blood T cells is regulated by mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR).	Depending on the type of external signals, T cells can initiate multiple intracellular signaling pathways that can be broadly classified into two groups based on their sensitivity to the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CsA). Interleukin (IL)-12-mediated interferon (IFN)-gamma production by activated T cells has been shown to be CsA-insensitive. In this report, we demonstrate that the IL-12-induced CsA-resistant pathway of IFN-gamma production is sensitive to rapamycin. Rapamycin treatment resulted in the aberrant recruitment of Stat3, Stat4, and phospho-c-Jun to the genomic promoter region resulting in decreased IFN-gamma transcription. IL-12-induced phosphorylation of Stat3 on Ser-727 was affected by rapamycin, which may be due to the effect of rapamycin on the IL-12-induced interaction between mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and Stat3. In accordance with this, reduction in the mTOR protein level by small interfering RNA resulted in suppression of Stat3 phosphorylation and decreased production of IFN-gamma after IL-12 stimulation. These results suggest that mTOR may play a major role in IL-12-induced IFN-gamma production by activated T cells.
Immunopotentiating effect of a 'Yang'-promoting formula of traditional Chinese medicine on aged female BALB/c mice.	The 'Yang'-promoting traditional Chinese medicines (TCM) are used to boost vigor and enhance immunity in humans. In this study, the immunopotentiating effect of VI-28, a 'Yang'-promoting TCM formula containing extracts of radix ginseng, cornu Cervi pantotrichum and radix Salvia miltiorrhizae, was investigated. Groups of 8-month-old female ex-breeder BALB/c mice were fed on ordinary mouse food or food containing a low (0.5%) or high (2%) dose VI-28 for up to 18 weeks. From week 6, mice on the TCM-containing diet were much healthier, stronger and more alert than those on the normal mouse food. Furthermore, their thymuses were significantly bigger and heavier than those of the control mice. Histological examination revealed structural changes typical of thymic involution in mice of the control group, whilst the microstructure of thymuses from mice taking TCM-containing food was comparable to that of mice of a much younger age, indicating a positive effect of VI-28 on slowing down thymic involution. Functional analysis of splenocytes from mice of different groups suggested that oral administration of VI-28 corrected the hyporesponsiveness of T lymphocytes in aged mice. These results have important implications for our understanding of the mechanisms of the immunoboosting effect of TCM.
Differential expression of natural killer cell receptors (CD94/NKG2A) on T cells by the stimulation of G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood mononuclear cells with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody and cytokines: a study in stem cell donors.	We investigated the expression of the inhibitory NKR (CD94/NKG2A) of the G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood mononuclear cells (G-PBMC) on T cells after stimulation for 7 days by immobilized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb) with or without cytokines. We demonstrated increased expression of CD94/NKG2A on CD3+/CD8+ T cells. Also, addition of IL-12 induced significantly more CD94/NKG2A expression than addition of IL-15: CD94+CD3+/NKG2A+CD3+; 43.8 +/- 11.6%/33.7 +/- 11.4% by IL-12 versus 32.8 +/- 13.2%/21.3 +/- 9.6% by IL-15, respectively (n = 9, P < .05). However, >90% purified CD94+ cells CD94+ obtained from IL-15-treated G-PBMC by magnetic cell sorting (MACS) exhibited higher cytolytic (CTL) activity against K562 cells than that from IL-12-treated G-PBMC: E:T = 20:1, 40.7 +/- 18.4% vs 15.1 +/- 5.2% (n = 5, P < .05). Therefore, the cytokine effects on inhibitory NKR expression on T cells and CTL activity are differently regulated. Based on these findings, it may be possible to establish the effective strategy to expand inhibitory NKR-expressing T cells with CTL activity for cell therapy.
Simultaneous detection of DNA synthesis, activation and cytokine secretion in collagen II (250-270)-activated T lymphocytes by flow cytometry.	T cell activation and secretion of cytokines from activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in culture have traditionally been measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation for assessment of cell proliferation. However, this method has many disadvantages that limit its usage in analyzing antigen-specific T responses, because of the low specific frequencies of the cells. Collagen II (250-270) may be an important autoantigen involved in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To further study the specific T cells response to CII 250-270, we developed an improved method for measuring lymphocyte proliferation and activation, and intracellular cytokine production, by flow cytometry at the single cell level. BrdU, an analog of thymidine, was incorporated into cellular DNA as a marker of individual cell proliferation. The cells were fixed and permeabilized, and a monoclonal antibody against BrdU conjugated with a fluorescent dye was used to measure BrdU incorporation. A Tris staining technique for the simultaneous determination of cell surface activation markers (CD69 or CD25) and intracellular cytokine production was also used and the parameters were assessed by 3-color flow cytometry. Optimal conditions were selected to improve the sensitivity and specificity of the assays. This method allowed simultaneous detection of lymphocytic DNA synthesis, phenotype analysis and cytokine production at the single cell level, and thus it may be a useful tool for analyzing immune responses.
Somatropin promotes dermatophagoides farinae-specific IgE generation independently of IL-4 and IL-10.	Interleukin (IL)-10 accelerates the IgE production of anti-CD40- and IL-4-stimulated PBMC by enhancing the IL-6 production of T lymphocytes or antigen-primed spleen cells, in addition to its role as a regulator of the inflammatory responses. To further investigate the mechanisms enhancing IgE synthesis, we determined the effect of somatropin as well as IL-10 on the secretion of Dermatophagoides farinae (Df)-specific IgE by K7 cells, which originate from an EBV-immortalized cell line. Df-pulsed autologous T cells, as well as the supernatants of these cultures, increased the synthesis of Df-specific IgE. Antigen-specific IgE was also enhanced when K7 cells were treated with anti-CD40 antibody and with both IL-4 and IL-10, or with IL-4 and IL-10 without anti-CD40 antibody. The treatment of K7 cells with anti-CD40 antibody and IL-4, or anti-CD40 antibody and IL-10 did not increase IgE production. The Df-specific IgE activity of the supernatants of K7 cells treated with somatropin alone was increased significantly although somatropin did not show any additive effect on the IgE production of anti-CD40 antibody-treated cells. The results indicate that IL-10, a Th2-type cytokine, directly affects the mature B cells that produce IgE, and that the secretion of IgE is increased by treatment with IL-10 in cells that are stimulated with anti-CD40 and IL-4 at the level of the EBV-immortalized cell line, which has already switched to IgE production. Somatropin similarly stimulates activated mature B cells to enhance their production of antigen-specific IgE without class switching, independently of IL-4 and IL-10.
Citrulline can preserve proliferation and prevent the loss of CD3 zeta chain under conditions of low arginine.	Arginine depletion by the enzyme Arginase I, decreases expression of the TCR zeta chain preventing T-cell activation and causing T-cell dysfunction. We hypothesized that citrulline could substitute for arginine under conditions of increased arginase expression. Thus, the goal was to establish a possible mechanism of how citrulline could overcome arginine depletion caused by arginase.
Evidence that thalidomide modifies the immune response of patients suffering from actinic prurigo.	Actinic prurigo (AP) is a photodermatosis with a restricted ethnic distribution, mainly affecting Mestizo women (mixed Indian and European). The lesions are polymorphic and include macules, papules, crusts, hyperpigmentation and lichenification. Thalidomide, an effective immunomodulatory drug, was first used successfully to treat AP in 1973. In this work we describe the effect that thalidomide had on TNF-alpha sera levels and on IL-4- and IFN gamma (IFNgamma)-producing lymphocytes of actinic prurigo (AP) patients.
Distinct phases in recovery of reconstituted innate cellular-mediated immunity after murine syngeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Defects in immune reconstitution after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation confer extreme infection risk on to the transplant recipient. Perturbations in adaptive immune reconstitution have been well characterized, yet defects in reconstituted innate cellular-mediated immunity remain largely unstudied. Recovery in innate effector cells was defined by using an established murine model of autologous bone marrow transplantation. Cytokine induction after cell culture and systemic stimulation with pathogen-associated molecular patterns was also measured for control, transplant-recipient, and irradiated-only animals. Early reconstitution (7 to 14 days) of donor-derived macrophages, dendritic cells, and polymorphonuclear cells was associated with recovery in interleukin (IL)-12p70 and IL-6 production. Later reconstitution (21 days) of natural killer cells was associated with interferon (IFN)-gamma recovery. Hence, splenocyte innate cellular-mediated immunity recovered to normal levels in cellularity and IL-12p70, IFN-gamma, and IFN-alpha production by 21 days after transplantation. In contrast, levels of systemic cytokine production from transplant-recipient and irradiated-only animals were preserved despite incomplete or absent hematopoietic reconstitution. These results suggest that innate immune responses to systemic inflammatory challenges are largely intact after autologous bone marrow transplantation, whereas local innate cellular-mediated immunity within reconstituting lymphoid organs may be impaired. The disparate effects of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation on host immune function may translate to differences in susceptibility to local versus systemic infectious challenges.
A randomized trial comparing the combination of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor plus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor versus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor for mobilization of dendritic cell subsets in hematopoietic progenitor cell products.	The ability of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) administration to increase the content of blood leucocytes and hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) is well established, yet the effect of these cytokines on immune function is less well described. Recent data indicate that plasmacytoid dendritic cells (DC2) may inhibit cellular immune response. We hypothesized that administration of the combination of G-CSF and GM-CSF after chemotherapy would reduce the type 2, or plasmacytoid, DC2 content of the autologous blood HPC grafts compared with treatment with G-CSF alone. To test this hypothesis, 35 patients with lymphoma and myeloma were randomized to receive either G-CSF or the combination of G-CSF plus GM-CSF after chemotherapy, and blood HPC grafts were collected by apheresis. Cytokine-related adverse events between the 2 groups were similar. More than 2 x 10(6)CD34 + cells per kilogram were collected by apheresis in 14 of 18 subjects treated with G-CSF and in 16 of 17 subjects treated with GM-CSF plus G-CSF ( p = not significant). There were minor differences between the 2 groups with respect to the content of T cells and CD34 + cells in the apheresis products. However, grafts collected from recipients of the combination of GM-CSF plus G-CSF had significantly fewer DC2 cells and similar numbers of DC1 cells compared with recipients treated with G-CSF alone. A third cohort of patients received chemotherapy followed by the sequential administration of G-CSF and the addition of GM-CSF 6 days later. Grafts from these patients had a markedly reduced DC2 content compared with those from patients treated either with G-CSF alone or with the concomitant administration of both cytokines. These data, and recent data that cross-presentation of antigen by DC2 cells may induce antigen-specific tolerance among T cells, suggest that GM-CSF during mobilization of blood HPC grafts may be a clinically applicable strategy to enhance innate and acquired immunity after autologous and allogeneic HPC transplantation.
5-Fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine has effects on mitochondria in CEM T-lymphoblast cells.	Fluoropyrimidines are useful anticancer agents and the compound 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine (FdUrd) plays an important role in chemotherapy of colon cancers. Several nucleoside analogs, such as 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT) and 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), can be incorporated into and cause depletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). These drugs are known to cause mitochondrial toxicity after prolonged treatment in patients. In this study we demonstrate that FdUrd reduces the mtDNA content and the expression level of the mtDNA encoded cytochrome c oxidase (COX II) in a CEM T-lymphoblastic cell line.
Promising treatments in development for food allergies.	Up to 6% of young children and 2% of adults suffer from food allergy. Among them many have IgE-mediated food allergy, a condition with potentially fatal allergic reactions. The only proven treatment is avoidance of the offending food, which can be identified using standardised allergic tests. However, several studies have addressed possible definite treatment options for food allergy. Immunotherapy, administered orally or by systemic injections, shows promising preliminary results, but these therapeutics are based on studies with insufficient scientific support, or are associated with a high risk of severe side effects. At present, no studies can support pharmacotherapy. However, promising results were recently published with anti-IgE antibodies in a human trial, and various approaches in a mouse model of food allergy (chinese herbal medicine, specific modulation of the T-cell response). Rapidly evolving findings might provide hope for a cure for food allergy in the near future.
Liposome-encapsulated CpG oligodeoxynucleotides as a potent adjuvant for inducing type 1 innate immunity.	Unmethylated cytosine-phosphorothioate-guanine oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-ODNs) exhibit potent immunostimulating activity by binding with Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) expressed on antigen-presenting cells. Here, we show that CpG-ODN encapsulated in cationic liposomes (CpG-liposomes) improves its incorporation into CD11c(+) dendritic cells (DCs) and induces enhanced serum interleukin (IL)-12 levels compared with unmodified CpG-ODN. CpG-liposome potently activated natural killer (NK) cells (84.3%) and NKT cells (48.3%) to produce interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), whereas the same dose of unmodified CpG-ODN induced only low numbers of IFN-gamma-producing NK cells (12.7%) and NKT cells (1.6%) to produce IFN-gamma. In contrast with the NKT cell agonist alpha-galactosylceramide, which induces both IFN-gamma and IL-4 production by NKT cells, CpG-liposome only induced IFN-gamma production by NKT cells. Such potent adjuvant activities of CpG-liposome were absent in TLR9-deficient mice, indicating that CpG-liposome was as effective as CpG-ODN in stimulating type 1 innate immunity through TLR9. In addition to TLR9, at least two other factors, IL-12 production by DCs and direct contact between DCs and NK or NKT cells, were essential for inducing type 1 innate immunity by CpG-liposome. Furthermore, ligation of TLR9 by CpG-liposome coencapsulated with ovalbumin (OVA) caused the induction of OVA-specific CTLs, which exhibited potent cytotoxicity against OVA-expressing tumor cells. These results indicate that CpG-liposome alone or combined with tumor antigen protein provides a promising approach for the prevention or therapy of tumors.
The HTLV-I Tax oncoprotein targets the retinoblastoma protein for proteasomal degradation.	Human T-cell leukemia virus type-I (HTLV-I), the etiologic agent of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), is estimated to affect 10-20 million people worldwide. The transforming ability of HTLV-I has been largely attributed to the viral protein Tax, which modulates the activity of several well-known cell cycle regulators. An important cell cycle regulator, the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein, is often inactivated in many cancers including virally induced cancers. Upon examination of Rb status, we observed a decrease in Rb protein expression in HTLV-1-infected cell lines as well as in ex vivo ATL patient samples. Transient transfection assays indicated that decreased Rb protein levels were Tax dependent. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that Tax directly associates with Rb. This interaction was localized within the B pocket of Rb and the C-terminus of Tax (aa 245-353). Within the C-terminus of Tax, we have identified an LXCXE-like motif, that when mutated resulted in the loss of Tax/Rb interaction. Furthermore, through the use of proteasome inhibitors, such as MG-132, in vivo and proteasome degradation assays in vitro, we found that Tax destabilizes the hypo-phosphorylated (active) form of Rb via the proteasome pathway. Therefore, we propose a model whereby Tax targets Rb to the proteasome by acting as a molecular bridge bringing Rb into contact with the proteasome for degradation.
Immunoregulation of dendritic and T cells by alpha-fetoprotein in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.	Novel immunotherapeutic and other strategies are being explored for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) may be a target antigen for immunotherapy. Little is known, however, about the immunobiology of AFP. Therefore, the impact of AFP on dendritic cells (DC), CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was studied in detail.
Predominance of type 1 (Th1) cytokine production in the liver of patients with HCV-associated mixed cryoglobulinemia vasculitis.	Patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) mixed cryoglobulinemia (MC) vasculitis have a higher mortality rate and more frequent incidence of cirrhosis than their cryoglobulin-negative counterparts. To compare the cytokine profile of liver-infiltrating T cells in HCV-infected patients with or without MC vasculitis.
Atorvastatin inhibits autoreactive B cell activation and delays lupus development in New Zealand black/white F1 mice.	Systemic lupus erythematosus is a multisystem autoimmune disease characterized by a wide range of immunological abnormalities that underlie the loss of tolerance. In this study we show that administration of atorvastatin to lupus-prone NZB/W F(1) mice resulted in a significant reduction in serum IgG anti-dsDNA Abs and decreased proteinuria. Histologically, the treatment was associated with reduced glomerular Ig deposition and less glomerular injury. Disease improvement was paralleled by decreased expression of MHC class II on monocytes and B lymphocytes and reduced expression of CD80 and CD86 on B lymphocytes. Consequent upon this inhibition of Ag presentation, T cell proliferation was strongly impaired by atorvastatin in vitro and in vivo. A significant decrease in MHC class II expression was also observed in the target organ of lupus disease (i.e., the glomerulus). Serum cholesterol in atorvastatin-treated lupus mice fell to the level found in young NZB/W mice before disease onset. This is the first demonstration that atorvastatin can delay the progression of a spontaneous autoimmune disease and may specifically benefit patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.
Synthetic bryostatin analogues activate the RasGRP1 signaling pathway.	The functional properties of four diacylglycerol (DAG) analogues were compared using cell-signaling assays based on the protein RasGRP1, a DAG-regulated Ras activator. Compounds 1 and 2, synthetic analogues of bryostatin 1, were compared to authentic bryostatin 1 and phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA). The two "bryologues" were able to activate RasGRP1 signaling rapidly in cultured cells and isolated mouse thymocytes. They elicited expression of the T cell activation marker CD69 in human T cells. DAG analogues promptly recruited RasGRP1 to cell membranes, but they did not induce RasGRP1 proteolysis. Bryostatin 1 and compounds 1 and 2 appeared to be less potent than PMA at inducing aggregation of mouse thymocytes, a PKC-dependent, RasGRP1-independent response. In addition to sharing potential anticancer properties with bryostatin 1, compounds 1 and 2 might be clinically useful as modulators of the immune system.
Locked nucleic acid containing antisense oligonucleotides enhance inhibition of HIV-1 genome dimerization and inhibit virus replication.	We have evaluated antisense design and efficacy of locked nucleic acid (LNA) and DNA oligonucleotide (ON) mix-mers targeting the conserved HIV-1 dimerization initiation site (DIS). LNA is a high affinity nucleotide analog, nuclease resistant and elicits minimal toxicity. We show that inclusion of LNA bases in antisense ONs augments the interference of HIV-1 genome dimerization. We also demonstrate the concomitant RNase H activation by six consecutive DNA bases in an LNA/DNA mix-mer. We show ON uptake via receptor-mediated transfection of a human T-cell line in which the mix-mers subsequently inhibit replication of a clinical HIV-1 isolate. Thus, the technique of LNA/DNA mix-mer antisense ONs targeting the conserved HIV-1 DIS region may provide a strategy to prevent HIV-1 assembly in the clinic.
Common gamma chain-signaling cytokines promote proliferation of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	The identification of signals critical for the pathophysiology of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) should contribute to the development of novel, more effective therapeutic strategies. Common gamma-chain signaling cytokines (gammac-cytokines) - interleukins 2, 4, 7, 9 and 15 - differentially regulate T-cell development, survival, proliferation and differentiation. Although studies exist on some individual cytokines, no comprehensive analysis of the effects of the Zc-cytokine family on malignant T cells has been reported. Here, we examined the effect of Zc-cytokines on T-ALL proliferation.
T-cell activation after chronic ethanol ingestion in mice.	Chronic excessive consumption of ethanol causes immunodeficiency in human beings and in mice. Immunologic changes have been described in both species, including T-cell and innate immune system cell activation, among others. The features of chronic ethanol-induced activation have similarities in the two species, including an increased effector subset in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. There are also features of activation observed in the splenic macrophages of mice consuming ethanol chronically, including increased up-regulation of CD80 and CD86. Because these molecules are involved in T-cell-antigen-presenting cell interactions in vivo, it is of interest to ask whether these and other pathways of interaction are important in the T-cell activation and cytokine skewing described in chronic ethanol abuse. Preliminary findings from comparisons of wild-type, CD40 ligand knock-out, and CD28 knock-out C57BL/6 mice strongly support the suggestion of a critical role for T-cell-antigen-presenting cell interactions in the immune alterations observed in chronic ethanol abuse.
Diethylstilbestrol exposure during fetal development affects thymus: studies in fourteen-month-old mice.	In utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) may have long-term immunological alterations after birth. It is hypothesized that in utero exposure to DES may pre-program the thymus to result in aberrant response to a subsequent adult exposure to an endocrine disrupting chemical. Pregnant mice at 14-days gestation were given either DES (0.25 microg; DESprenatal) or vehicle oil (Oil; Oil(prenatal)). One-year after birth, these mice were given a single dose of DES (DESadult) and thymii of these mice were studied two months later. DESprenatal/DESadult female mice had a significant decrease in thymocyte cellularity compared to female controls (Oil(prenatal)/DESadult). In contrast, male DESprenatal/DESadult mice had increased thymic mass and a trend towards increased thymocyte cellularity. There were no significant differences in the relative percentages of major thymocyte subsets, CD4-CD8-, CD4+CD8+, CD4+CD8-, CD4-CD8+, in either female or male DESprenatal/DESadult mice compared to their sex-matched controls. Nevertheless, thymocytes cultured in media alone showed increased percentage of apoptosis in CD4+CD8+ subset from female DESprenatal/DESadult mice compared to similar cultures from sex-matched controls. Interestingly, the percentage of apoptosis of CD4+CD8+ thymocytes in media-only cultures from DESprenatal/DESadult female mice was comparable to in vitro dexamethasone-exposed cultures from Oil(prenatal)/DESadult female mice. This pattern of increased apoptosis of female CD4+CD8+ subset was not noticed in male DESprenatal/DESadult mice. This implies that prenatal DES exposure in female mice intrinsically alters the degree of apoptosis in CD4+CD8+ thymocyte subset. Together, these data imply that prenatal DES exposure induces long-term thymic changes in a sex-related fashion.
Comparison of anti-arthritic properties of leflunomide with methotrexate and FK506: effect on T cell activation-induced inflammatory cytokine production in vitro and rat adjuvant-induced arthritis.	To examine the effect of leflunomide (LEF) on T cell activation-induced inflammatory cytokine production in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and rat established adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA), and compare these effects with methotrexate (MTX) and FK506 (tacrolimus), focusing on improvement of joint function in AIA.
The immunomodulatory effects of novel beta-oxa, beta-thia, and gamma-thia polyunsaturated fatty acids on human T lymphocyte proliferation, cytokine production, and activation of protein kinase C and MAPKs.	We have recently demonstrated that a novel n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) (beta-oxa 21:3n-3) was a more potent and more selective anti-inflammatory agent than n-3 PUFA. To gain further insights into this technology, we synthesized other novel PUFA consisting of beta-oxa, beta-thia, and gamma-thia compounds. All three types displayed anti-inflammatory activity. Each of the unsaturated beta-oxa fatty acids showed similar inhibition of PHA-PMA-induced T cell proliferation with a parallel inhibition of TNF-beta production. However, beta-oxa 25:6n-3 and beta-oxa 21:4n-3 displayed lower inhibitory action on IFN-gamma production. Surprisingly, beta-oxa 23:4n-6 and beta-oxa 21:3n-6 had marginal effect on IL-2 production. Thus, structural variation can generate selectivity for different immunological parameters. The beta-thia compounds 23:4n-6, 21:3n-6, and 21:3n-3 were highly effective in inhibiting all immunological responses. Of the two gamma-thia PUFA tested, gamma-thia 24:4n-6 was a strong inhibitor of all responses apart from IL-2, but gamma-thia 22:3n-6 had very little inhibitory effect. Two of the most active compounds, beta-thia 23:4n-6 and beta-thia 21:3n-6, were studied in more detail and shown to have an IC(50) of 1-2 muM under optimal conditions. Thus, these PUFA retain the immunosuppressive properties of the n-3 PUFAs, 20:5n-3 and 22:6n-3, but not the neutrophil-stimulating properties. Their action on T lymphocytes is independent of cyclooxygenase or lipoxygenase activity, and they act at a postreceptor-binding level by inhibiting the activation of protein kinase C and ERK1/ERK2 kinases.
Reciprocal activating interaction between dendritic cells and pamidronate-stimulated gammadelta T cells: role of CD86 and inflammatory cytokines.	We investigated the interactions between human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) and Ag-activated circulating TCR-gammadelta-expressing lymphocytes (Vdelta2). Coculture of immature DCs (iDCs) with peripheral blood Vdelta2 T cells activated with either pyrophosphomonoesters (isopentenyl pyrophosphate; IPP) or aminobiphosphonates (pamidronate; PAM) led to a significant up-modulation of CD86 and MHC class I molecules and to the acquisition of functional features typical of activated DCs. DC activation induced by both IPP- and PAM-stimulated gammadelta T cells was mostly mediated by TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma secreted by activated lymphocytes. However, the effect of PAM-activated gammadelta T cells, but not that of IPP-activated cells, required cell-to-cell contact. Reciprocally, activation of Vdelta2 T cells by PAM, but not by IPP, was dependent on cell contact with iDCs. In fact, when PAM-stimulated DC-gammadelta T cell cocultures were separated by a semipermeable membrane or treated with blocking anti-CD86 Abs, induction of CD25 and CD69 as well as IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha secretion by Vdelta2 cells were strongly reduced. These results demonstrate for the first time a bidirectional activating interaction between iDCs and PAM-stimulated gammadelta T lymphocytes, thus suggesting a potential adjuvant role of this early cross-talk in the therapeutic activity of aminobiphosphonate drugs.
Stimulation of host NKT cells by synthetic glycolipid regulates acute graft-versus-host disease by inducing Th2 polarization of donor T cells.	NKT cells are a unique immunoregulatory T cell population that produces large amounts of cytokines. We have investigated whether stimulation of host NKT cells could modulate acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in mice. Injection of the synthetic NKT cell ligand alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) to recipient mice on day 0 following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation promoted Th2 polarization of donor T cells and a dramatic reduction of serum TNF-alpha, a critical mediator of GVHD. A single injection of alpha-GalCer to recipient mice significantly reduced morbidity and mortality of GVHD. However, the same treatment was unable to confer protection against GVHD in NKT cell-deficient CD1d knockout (CD1d(-/-)) or IL-4(-/-) recipient mice or when STAT6(-/-) mice were used as donors, indicating the critical role of host NKT cells, host production of IL-4, and Th2 cytokine responses mediated by donor T cells on the protective effects of alpha-GalCer against GVHD. Thus, stimulation of host NKT cells through administration of NKT ligand can regulate acute GVHD by inducing Th2 polarization of donor T cells via STAT6-dependent mechanisms and might represent a novel strategy for prevention of acute GVHD.
Monocyte-induced potentiation of bovine fetal thymocyte mitogenic responses to concanavalin A.	Peripheral blood monocytes significantly potentiated the mitogenic response of bovine fetal thymocytes to Concanavalin A as measured by incorporation of [3H] thymidine into cellular DNA. Mononuclear cells obtained from either normal or Mycobacterium bovis sensitized cattle were cultured with or without purified protein derivative (PPD) for 24 hours at which time bovine fetal thymocytes and concanavalin A were added. After 3 days of culture, both activated or non-activated monocytes significantly potentiated Con A-induced blastogenic responses. of monocytes from thymocyte cultures completely abrogated thymocyte responses to Concanavalin A.
Studying the immunosuppressive role of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase: tryptophan metabolites suppress rat allogeneic T-cell responses in vitro and in vivo.	Pregnancy is a natural model of successful tolerance induction against allogeneic tissues. Recent studies pointed to a role of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), a tryptophan-degrading enzyme expressed in the placenta, in mediation of T-cell suppression. We want to apply to organ transplantation what nature has developed for suppression of fetal rejection during pregnancy. Here we analyze whether IDO-induced tryptophan metabolites are able to suppress the allogeneic T-cell response and allograft rejection in rats. Rat lymphocytes were stimulated with allogeneic dendritic cells in vitro in the presence of increasing amounts of tryptophan metabolites (kynurenine, 3-hydroxykynurenine, anthranilic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid and quinolinic acid) and T-cell proliferation was determined. The findings showed that kynurenine, 3-hydroxykynurenine and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid strongly suppress the T-cell response, whereas anthranilic and quinolinic acid are non-effective. Vital staining of cells with subsequent fluorescence-activated cell sorter analyses demonstrated that suppression is mediated by T-cell death. Thereafter, the action of metabolites was analyzed in a skin allograft model (BN-->LEW). Lewis recipients received daily s.c. injections of tryptophan metabolite mixture (kynurenine + 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid), cyclosporin A (positive control), or no treatment (negative control). The metabolites induced a significant prolongation (P = 0.0018) of graft survival. We conclude that IDO-induced tryptophan metabolites suppress the T-cell response and prolong allograft survival in rats.
Responses in vitro of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with myasthenia gravis to stimulation with human acetylcholine receptor alpha-chain peptides: analysis in relation to age, thymic abnormality, and ethnicity.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) were isolated from 24 patients with myasthenia gravis of three ethnic groups (Caucasian, African American, and Hispanic) and ten healthy individuals. We determined the in vitro proliferative responses of the PBL samples to each of 18 overlapping synthetic peptides corresponding to the entire main extracellular domain (residues 1-210) of the alpha-subunit of human acetylcholine receptor. The profiles of the T-cell responses (expressed in stimulation index [SI]) to the peptides varied among the 24 patient samples. There was a significant difference in the overall patient responses relative to controls toward 17 of 18 peptides. T cells from the patients gave responses greater than control mean SI + 4 standard deviation (Z(SI) > 4) to 2 approximately 9 peptides/sample. Six peptides, alpha 23-38, alpha 34-49, alpha 78-93, alpha 122-138, alpha 146-162, and alpha 182-198, were recognized with Z > 4 level by 42% to 58% of the patients' PBLs. The grouped patient responses, divided according to age, thymic diagnosis, or ethnicity, were compared with controls and with each other. Significant differences were observed between early- and late-onset cases in recognition of residues alpha 34-49 (p = 0.015) and alpha 78-93 (p = 0.053), and in recognition of residues alpha 12-27, alpha 56-71, alpha 134-150, and alpha 146-162 (0.0072 < p < 0.064) when two ethnic groups were compared with each other.
FLT3 ligand administration after hematopoietic cell transplantation increases circulating dendritic cell precursors that can be activated by CpG oligodeoxynucleotides to enhance T-cell and natural killer cell function.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are key effectors in innate immunity and play critical roles in triggering adaptive immune responses. FLT3 ligand (FLT3-L) is essential for DC development from hematopoietic progenitors. In a phase I clinical trial, we demonstrated that immunotherapy with subcutaneous injection of FLT3-L is safe and well tolerated in cancer patients recovering from autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). FLT3-L administration significantly increased the frequency and absolute number of blood DC precursors without affecting other mature cell lineages during the 6-week course of FLT3-L therapy. After 14 days of FLT3-L administration, the number of blood CD11c + DCs, plasmacytoid DCs (PDCs), and CD14 + monocytes increased by 5.3-, 2.9-, 3.8-fold, respectively, and was maintained at increased levels throughout FLT3-L therapy. FLT3-L-increased blood DCs in HCT patients were immature and had modest enhancing effects on in vitro T-cell proliferation to antigens and natural killer (NK) cell function. The addition of type B CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) to peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from HCT patients receiving FLT3-L therapy induced rapid maturation of both CD11c + DCs and PDCs and enhanced T-cell proliferative responses. In addition, CpG ODN induced potent activation of NK cells from FLT3-L-treated patients with increased surface CD69 expression and augmented cytotoxicity. CpG ODN-induced activation of NK cells was primarily via an indirect mechanism through PDCs. These findings suggest that FLT3-L mobilization of DC precursors followed by a specific DC stimulus such as CpG ODN may provide a novel strategy to manipulate antitumor immunity in patients after HCT.
Identification of cellular deoxyhypusine synthase as a novel target for antiretroviral therapy.	The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly decreased morbidity and mortality among patients infected with HIV-1. However, HIV-1 can acquire resistance against all currently available antiretroviral drugs targeting viral reverse transcriptase, protease, and gp41. Moreover, in a growing number of patients, the development of multidrug-resistant viruses compromises HAART efficacy and limits therapeutic options. Therefore, it is an ongoing task to develop new drugs and to identify new targets for antiretroviral therapy. Here, we identified the guanylhydrazone CNI-1493 as an efficient inhibitor of human deoxyhypusine synthase (DHS). By inhibiting DHS, this compound suppresses hypusine formation and, thereby, activation of eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF-5A), a cellular cofactor of the HIV-1 Rev regulatory protein. We demonstrate that inhibition of DHS by CNI-1493 or RNA interference efficiently suppressed the retroviral replication cycle in cell culture and primary cells. We show that CNI-1493 inhibits replication of macrophage- and T cell-tropic laboratory strains, clinical isolates, and viral strains with high-level resistance to inhibitors of viral protease and reverse transcriptase. Moreover, no measurable drug-induced adverse effects on cell cycle transition, apoptosis, and general cytotoxicity were observed. Therefore, human DHS represents a novel and promising drug target for the development of advanced antiretroviral therapies, particularly for the inhibition of multidrug-resistant viruses.
Beta-diketo acid pharmacophore hypothesis. 1. Discovery of a novel class of HIV-1 integrase inhibitors.	HIV-1 Integrase (IN) is an essential enzyme for viral replication. The discovery of beta-diketo acids was crucial in the validation of IN as a legitimate target in drug discovery against HIV infection. In this study, we discovered a novel class of IN inhibitors using a 3D pharmacophore guided database search. We used S-1360 (1), the first IN inhibitor to undergo clinical trials, and three other analogues to develop a common feature pharmacophore hypothesis. Testing this four-featured pharmacophore against a multiconformational database of 150,000 structurally diverse small molecules yielded 1,700 compounds that satisfied the 3D query. Subsequently, all 1,700 compounds were docked into the active site of IN. On the basis of docking scores, Lipinski's rule-of-five, and structural novelty, 110 compounds were selected for biological screening. We found that compounds that contain both salicylic acid and a 2-thioxo-4-thiazolidinone (rhodanine) group (e.g. 5-13) showed significant inhibitory potency against IN, while the presence of either salicylic acid or a rhodanine group alone did not. Although some of the compounds containing only a salicylic acid showed inhibitory potency against IN, none of the compounds containing only rhodanine exhibited considerable potency. Of the 52 compounds reported in this study, 11 compounds (5, 6, 8, 10-13, 32-33, 51, and 53) inhibited 3'-processing or strand transfer activities of IN with IC(50) < or = 25 microM. This is the first reported use of S-1360 and its analogues as leads in developing a pharmacophore hypothesis for IN inhibition and for identification of new compounds with potent inhibition of this enzyme.
Effects of ethyl pyruvate on cell-mediated immune function in rats with delayed resuscitation after burn injury]	To investigate the effects of ethyl pyruvate (EP) on cell-mediated immune function in rats with delayed resuscitation after burn injury, and its potential regulatory mechanism.
Chemical inhibitors when timing is critical: a pharmacological concept for the maturation of T cell contacts.	Cellular signal transduction proceeds through a complex network of molecular interactions and enzymatic activities. The timing of these molecular events is critical for the propagation of a signal and the generation of a specific cellular response. To define the timing of signalling events, we introduce the combination of high-resolution confocal microscopy with the application of small-molecule inhibitors at various stages of signal transduction in T cells. Inhibitors of Src-family tyrosine kinases and actin dynamics were employed to dissect the role of the lymphocyte-specific tyrosine kinase Lck in the formation and maintenance of T cell receptor/CD3-dependent contacts. Anti-CD3epsilon-coated coverslips served as a highly defined stimulus. The kinetics of the recruitment of the yellow fluorescent protein-tagged signalling protein ZAP-70 were detected by high-resolution confocal microscopy. The analysis revealed that at 5 min after receptor engagement, Lck activity was required for maintenance of contacts. In contrast, after 20 min of receptor engagement, the contacts were Lck-independent. The relevance of the timing of inhibitor application provides a pharmacological concept for the maturation of T cell-substrate contacts.
Operationally tolerant and minimally immunosuppressed kidney recipients display strongly altered blood T-cell clonal regulation.	Most kidney transplant recipients who discontinue immunosuppression reject their graft. Nevertheless, a small number do not, suggesting that allogeneic tolerance state (referred to operational tolerance) is achievable in humans. So far, however, the rarity of such patients has limited their study. Because operational tolerance could be linked to anergy, ignorance or to an active regulatory mechanism, we analyzed the blood T-cell repertoire usage of these patients. We report on comparison of T-cell selection in drug-free operationally tolerant kidney recipients (or with minimal immunosuppression), recipients with stable graft function, chronic rejection and healthy individuals. The blood T cells of operationally tolerant patients display two major characteristics: an unexpected strongly altered T-cell receptor (TCR) Vbeta usage and high TCR transcript accumulation in selected T cells. The cytokine transcriptional patterns of sorted T cells with altered TCR usage show no accumulation of cytokine transcripts (IL10, IL2, IL13, IFN-gamma), suggesting a state of hyporesponsiveness in these patients. Identification of such a potential surrogate pattern of operational tolerance in transplant recipients under life-long immunosuppression may provide a new basis and rationale for exploration of tolerance state. However, these data obtained in a limited number of patients require further confirmation on larger series.
BRD-glucan exhibits potent immunochemotherapeutic activity in vitro and in vivo.	We carried out in vitro and in vivo assays to investigate the immunomodulatory and immunochemotherapeutic action mechanism of BRD-glucan, a high molecular weight ( approximately 3,500 kDa) polysaccharide isolated from Aureobasidium sp, and assessed the efficacy of BRD-glucan/adriamycin co-treatment of animal cancer models. RT-PCR and suspension hemolytic, plaque forming, wounding, invasion and cell proliferation assays were utilized to investigate the in vitro immunochemotherapeutic effects of BRD-glucan. In vivo, the effects of BRD-glucan and BRD-glucan/adriamycin co-treatment were tested in a B16 melanoma initiation model and in C57BL/6 mice. In vitro, BRD-glucan did not affect the cellular wounding response or invasion activity; treatment with BRD-glucan led to increase proliferation of B cells, natural killer cells and macrophages, but not T cells. In addition, we found that the BRD-glucan activation of B cells and macrophages was dependent on Toll-like receptor2 (TLR2) and TLR4, which play important roles in innate and adaptive immunity. In vivo, BRD-glucan/adriamycin co-treatment effectively reduced the number and size of metastatic colonies. Based on the results of our in vitro and in vivo toxicity, safety and immunochemotherapy assays, we propose that BRD-glucan is a promising immunochemotherapeutic anti-tumor agent.
Physiological basis for novel drug therapies used to treat the inflammatory bowel diseases. I. Immunology and therapeutic potential of antiadhesion molecule therapy in inflammatory bowel disease.	Adhesion molecules regulate the influx of leukocytes in normal and inflamed gut. They are also involved in local lymphocyte stimulation and antigen presentation within the intestinal mucosa. In intestinal inflammation, many adhesion molecules are upregulated, but alpha4-integrins most likely hold a key position in directing leukocytes into the inflamed bowel wall. Therapeutic compounds directed against trafficking of leukocytes have been designed and are being developed as a novel class of drugs in the treatment of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. This review deals with the immunological aspects of leukocyte trafficking focused on gut homing of T cells. Second, the changes in adhesion molecules and T cell trafficking during intestinal inflammation are discussed. Finally, we review the clinical data that have been gathered with respect to the therapeutic potential and the safety of antiadhesion molecule treatment. Antegren, or natalizumab, a humanized anti-alpha4 integrin IgG4 antibody, has been most extensively evaluated and may be close to registration. A more specific humanized alpha4beta7-integrin MLN-02 has shown preliminary clinical efficacy in ulcerative colitis, and both antergren and MLN-02 appear to be very safe. Trials with the anti-ICAM-1 antisense oligonucleotide ISIS-2302 in steroid refractory Crohn's disease have provided conflicting efficacy data. In the near future, some of these novel biological agents may prove valuable therapeutic tools in the management of refractory inflammatory bowel disease, although it is too early to define the patient population that will benefit most from these agents.
Role of NF-kappaB signaling pathway in increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced apoptosis of lymphocytes in aged humans.	In human aging, lymphocytes display increased sensitivity to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced apoptosis. TNF-alpha induces both survival and apoptotic signals. The survival signal is mediated by the activation of NF-kappaB. Although a role of certain proapoptotic molecules in aging has been reported, a role of altered NF-kappaB signaling pathway has not been explored in detail. In this study, we have compared TNF-alpha-induced activation of NF-kappaB, phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha, and the expression of IKKbeta between lymphocytes from young and aged humans. Furthermore, we have explored a role of IKKbeta in increased susceptibility of lymphocytes from aged humans to TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis. Lymphocytes from aged humans displayed decreased activation of NF-kappaB, reduced phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha, and decreased expression of IKKbeta. In addition, overexpression of IKKbeta in lymphocytes from aged humans normalized TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis to the level of young subjects. These data suggest a deficiency of NF-kappaB signaling pathway and a role of IKKbeta, at least in part, for increased sensitivity of lymphocytes from aged humans to TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis.
A sodium channel opener inhibits stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	The role of membrane potential changes in T cell activation was studied on human peripheral blood lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemagglutinin. Addition of bretylium tosylate, a sodium channels opener, to PHA treated lymphocytes modified the membrane potential and consequently blocked cell activation in a dose-dependent fashion. BT was non-toxic even in long-term (72 hr) incubations. It was reversibly removable, and the removal restored the stimulatory effect of PHA. 3H-thymidine incorporation was blocked if BT was present during the first 20-24 hr of the mitogenic activation. The later BT was added after PHA, the less inhibition of proliferation was observed. BT hyperpolarized the lymphocytes also in the presence of PHA. BT hindered the depolarizing effect of high extracellular potassium concns. The sustained polarized state of the lymphocytes did not influence the intracellular calcium increase upon PHA treatment. IL-2 and transferrin receptor expression was not hindered by BT during PHA stimulation of lymphocytes. Addition of rIL-2 did not abolish the inhibitory effect of BT. According to cell-cycle analysis BT arrested the majority of the cells in G1 phase. It is suggested that cell activation demands the flexible maintenance of a relatively narrow membrane potential "window". Any sustained and significant hyper-, or depolarization, may dramatically decrease the effectivity of transmembrane signalling.
Effect of 15-deoxyspergualin on lupus nephropathy in New Zealand black/white F1 mice.	Fourteen-week-old female New Zealand B/W F1 mice were treated subcutaneously with 15-deoxyspergualin (DSP) at 0.3 mg-6.0 mg/kg body weight, 4 times/week. They were sacrificed at 36 weeks of age to determine the minimal effective dose as well as the lowest maximally effective dose without toxicity of DSP required to suppress the development of nephropathy. The life span of the animals was significantly prolonged with 0.6 mg/kg or more DSP. Additionally, glomerular (immuno)histological improvement of the kidney at 36 weeks was observed with 0.6 mg/kg DSP, although a higher dose was required to lower serum anti-DNA activity or to decrease proteinuria. In addition, DSP produced a decrease of L3T4+ splenocytes without affecting the number of Lyt 2+ cells, while the level of IL-2 generated in vitro was somewhat elevated. It may be concluded that DSP has a therapeutic range within an order of ten, but its exact mechanism of immunosuppression remains to be determined.
Inhibition of interleukin-8 (CXCL8/IL-8) responses by repertaxin, a new inhibitor of the chemokine receptors CXCR1 and CXCR2.	Repertaxin is a new non-competitive allosteric blocker of interleukin-8 (CXCL8/IL-8) receptors (CXCR1/R2), which by locking CXCR1/R2 in an inactive conformation prevents receptor signaling and human polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) chemotaxis. Given the unique mode of action of repertaxin it was important to examine the ability of repertaxin to inhibit a wide range of biological activities induced by CXCL8 in human leukocytes. Our results show that repertaxin potently and selectively blocked PMN adhesion to fibrinogen and CD11b up-regulation induced by CXCL8. Reduction of CXCL8-mediated PMN adhesion by repertaxin was paralleled by inhibition of PMN activation including secondary and tertiary granule release and pro-inflammatory cytokine production, whereas PMN phagocytosis of Escherichia coli bacteria was unaffected. Repertaxin also selectively blocked CXCL8-induced T lymphocyte and natural killer (NK) cell migration. These data suggest that repertaxin is a potent and specific inhibitor of a wide range of CXCL8-mediated activities related to leukocyte recruitment and functional activation in inflammatory sites.
Involvement of p38 MAPK signaling pathway in IFN-gamma and HTLV-I expression in patients with HTLV-I-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis.	We analyzed the relationship between the expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma and HTLV-I p19 antigen and activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) in two HTLV-I-infected T cell lines derived from two patients (HCT-1 and HCT-4) with HTLV-I-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), and three HTLV-I-infected T cell lines derived from three patients with adult T cell leukemia (ATL). Expression of phosphorylated (activated)-p38 MAPK was markedly increased concomitant with high levels of both IFN-gamma and HTLV-I p19 antigen expression in both HCT-1 and HCT-4 compared with cell lines derived from ATL patients. Treatment with SB203580, a specific inhibitor of p38 MAPK, suppressed IFN-gamma and HTLV-I p19 antigen expression levels in HCT-1, HCT-4 and peripheral blood CD4(+) T cells of HAM/TSP patients. These findings strongly suggest that activation of p38 MAPK signaling pathway is involved in the up-regulation of IFN-gamma expression with high HTLV-I proviral load in HAM/TSP patients.
Effect of Linomide on adhesion molecules, TNF-alpha, nitrogen oxide, and cell adhesion.	Linomide (quinoline-3-carboxamide) is an immunomodulator with anti-inflammatory effects in rodents with autoimmune diseases. Its mode of action still remains to be elucidated. We hypothesized that an investigation of T cell interactions with the extracellular matrix (ECM), composed of glycoproteins such as fibronectin (FN) and laminin (LN), might provide better understanding of their in vivo mode of action in extravascular inflammatory sites. We examined the effect of Linomide on T cell adhesion to intact ECM, and separately to LN, and FN, and on the release and production of tumor necrosis factor (TNFalpha) and nitrogen oxide (NO) in relation to adhesive molecules in non-obese diabetic (NOD) female spleen cells, focusing on intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and CD44. NOD female mice that developed spontaneous autoimmune insulitis, which destroys pancreatic islets and subsequently leads to insulin-deficient diabetes mellitus, were studied. Linomide, given in the drinking water or added to tissue cultures in vitro, inhibited the beta1 integrin-mediated adhesion of T cells to ECM, FN and LN, as well as the production and release of TNFalpha and NO, which play a major role in the induction and propagation of T cell-mediated insulitis. In addition, exposure of T cells to Linomide resulted in increased expression of CD44 and ICAM-1 molecules on spleen cells of Linomide-treated mice; such an increase in adhesion molecule expression may lead to more effective arrest of T cell migration in vivo. The regulation of T-cell adhesion, adhesion receptor expression, and inhibition of TNFalpha and NO secretion by Linomide may explain its beneficial role and provide a new tool for suppressing self-reactive T cell-dependent autoimmune diseases.
Aqueous extract from aerial parts of Artemisia vestita, a traditional Tibetan medicine, reduces contact sensitivity in mice by down-regulating the activation, adhesion and metalloproteinase production of T lymphocytes.	In the present paper, the effect of the aqueous extract from aerial parts of Artemisia vestita (AV-ext), a traditional Tibetan medicine, on ear contact sensitivity was examined. AV-ext significantly reduced the ear swelling when administered during the induction phase of picryl-chloride (PCl)-induced ear contact sensitivity in mice. The extract also showed a dose-dependent inhibition on lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 production in Con A-activated spleen cells. The proliferation inhibition was confirmed in the mixed lymphocytes reaction. Furthermore, the adhesion of the isolated spleen cells from PCl-sensitized mice to type IV collagen was significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner by AV-ext. Such decrease was also seen in AV-ext-treated Jurkat T cells and the T cells purified from above spleen cells. The purified spleen T cells from PCl-sensitized mice produced more matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) than naive T cells, and AV-ext remarkably reduced MMP-9 production both in vivo and in vitro. These results suggest that AV-ext may alleviate contact sensitivity through blocking the activation of T lymphocytes and decreasing their localization to the inflammatory sites via down-regulating the potential of cell adhesion and metalloproteinase production.
Efficacy of a traditional Korean medicine, Chung-Sang-Bo-Ha-Tang, in a murine model of chronic asthma.	Traditional herbal medicines may be viable alternatives to corticosteroid therapy for treatment of asthma. However, the therapeutic mechanisms of herbal compounds remain a matter of considerable debate. This study was performed to evaluate the effects of Chung-Sang-Bo-Ha-Tang (CSBHT), a herbal compound administrated therapeutically to asthma patients for centuries, on airway inflammation and remodeling in a murine model of chronic asthma. BALB/c mice sensitized to ovalbumin (OVA) were chronically challenged with aerosolized OVA for 6 weeks. During the last 2 weeks, some mice were treated daily with CSBHT by intragastric feeding. Dexamethasone (Dex)-treated, phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated, and naive mice served as controls. The effects of CSBHT on airway inflammation, lung pathology, and cytokine production were evaluated. Mice exposed to recurrent airway challenge with OVA had chronic inflammation and characteristics of airway remodeling, including subepithelial fibrosis, epithelial hypertrophy, and goblet cell hyperplasia. CSBHT was as effective as Dex at moderately reducing these changes compared to the PBS-treated mice. In addition, IL-5 and IFN-gamma levels in supernatants of Concanavalin A (Con A)-activated splenocyte cultures were reduced in mice treated with CSBHT. Treatment with CSBHT during the last 2 weeks of challenge modulated airway inflammation and remodeling in a murine model of chronic asthma. Thus, CSBHT may effectively delay the progression of airway inflammation and remodeling.
Deficient translocation of c-Rel is associated with impaired Th1 cytokine production in T cells from atopic dermatitis patients.	Decreased production of T helper type 1 (Th1) cytokines, such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) or interleukin-2 (IL-2), is a hallmark of atopic diseases. While accessory signals from antigen-presenting cells may be missing, T cells themselves may be suppressed in their ability to produce substantial amounts of Th1 cytokines. We show, in this study, that T cell receptor (TCR)-activated T cells from atopic dermatitis (AD) patients proliferate less than control T cells and produce lower amounts of IFN-gamma and IL-2, but comparable amounts of IL-4. Because mice lacking the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) transcription factors - p65 or c-Rel - show reduced Th1, but undisturbed Th2 responses, we investigated the role of c-Rel and p65 for Th1 cytokine production in T cells from healthy and severe AD patients. TCR-activated primary T cells from healthy donors treated with c-Rel antisense oligonucleotides produced lower levels of IL-2 and IFN-gamma and proliferated less efficiently than the corresponding control T cells. Moreover, transfection of primary T cells with c-Rel or p65 enhanced proliferation and production of IL-2 and IFN-gamma. Nuclear extracts of activated primary T cells from AD donors bound weakly to NF-kappaB-specific oligonucleotides, compared to extracts from healthy control T cells. Western blotting studies revealed that nuclear, but not cytosolic, extracts from T cells of AD patients lacked significant amounts of c-Rel and p65. T cell clones derived from AD patients failed to sufficiently translocate c-Rel and p65 into the nucleus following activation. Thus, impaired nuclear translocation of c-Rel and p65 may determine an impaired Th1 cytokine response in AD.
Vaccination of brushtail possums, Trichosurus vulpecula, with Bacille Calmette-Guerin induces T lymphocytes that reduce Mycobacterium bovis replication in alveolar macrophages via a contact-dependent/nitric oxide-independent mechanism.	The permissiveness of alveolar macrophages from brushtail possums for the replication of Mycobacterium bovis was examined. Mycobacterium bovis replication was indirectly measured by assessing bacterial metabolism via the incorporation of [3-H]-uracil by bacilli released from lysed macrophages previously infected with mycobacteria. Alveolar macrophages allowed substantial replication of virulent M. bovis, in contrast to Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) Pasteur, which replicated poorly. The addition of crude lymphokines enhanced the metabolic activity of phagocytosed M. bovis in possum macrophages. Possum lymphokines enhanced the ability of possum macrophages to generate reactive oxygen intermediates, measured by the reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium, which is indicative of an activation process. Similarly, the addition of recombinant possum TNF-alpha enhanced the permissiveness of alveolar macrophages for M. bovis. In contrast to mouse peritoneal macrophages, possum alveolar macrophages did not release significant levels of nitric oxide (NO) after stimulation with M. bovis and/or lymphokines. However, the uptake of virulent M. bovis by possum macrophages was associated with an enhanced ability of cells to release TNF-alpha, whereas very low levels of TNF-alpha were released after infection with BCG. The addition of a selective inhibitor of inducible NO synthase had no impact on the replication of M. bovis or BCG in possum macrophages in the presence or absence of lymphokines. Co-culturing infected possum alveolar macrophages with autologous blood mononuclear cells from BCG-vaccinated possums led to a significant decrease in the metabolic activity of intracellular M. bovis. This effect was contact dependent and NO independent and was mediated by a population of CD3+ cells. In addition, adding scavengers of reactive oxygen intermediates did not abrogate this phenomenon.
Molecular modification of a recombinant, bivalent anti-human CD3 immunotoxin (Bic3) results in reduced in vivo toxicity in mice.	A novel bivalent single chain fusion protein, Bic3, was assembled consisting of the catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin (DT(390)) fused to two repeating sFv molecules recognizing human CD3 epsilon of the human T-cell receptor. Historically, problems with these constructs include low yield, toxicity, and reduced efficacy. Instead of using conventional Gly(4)Ser linkers to connect heavy/light chains, aggregation reducing linkers (ARL) were used which when combined with a new SLS-based refolding method reduced aggregation and enhanced the yield of final product. Toxicity was reduced at least 25-fold by repeating the two sFv molecules and adding a portion of the hinge-CH2-CH3 human constant regions. The resulting Bic3 was just as cytotoxic to HPB-MLT.UM T leukemia cells in vitro (IC(50)=4 pmol) as a monovalent construct made with the same DT and sFv. In vivo, Bic3 was effective in a new and aggressive therapy model in which it significantly prolonged survival of scid mice with established human T-cell leukemia (p<0.0001 compared to controls). Importantly, no toxicity measured by weight loss, enzyme function, or histology was observed at the highest dose of Bic3 tested (2000 ug/kg). Bic3 warrants investigation as a new drug for treating T-cell malignancy and other T-cell related disorders.
A comparison of the inhibitory effects of immunosuppressive agents cyclosporine, tetranactin, and didemnin B on human T cell responses in vitro.	The agents cyclosporine, tetranactin (TN), and didemnin B (DB) were compared for their ability to inhibit proliferative human T cell responses in vitro, using anti-CD3, PHA, alloantigen, or tetanus toxoid as stimuli and using monocytes or Langerhans cells as antigen-presenting cells/accessory cells (APC/AC). We found that all three agents suppressed T cell activation in a dose-dependent fashion, irrespective of the stimulus of APC/AC type used. Both T cells and APC/AC were affected by the drugs. DB appeared to be the most potent suppressive drug (IC50 = 1-4 ng/ml), whereas CsA and TN exerted approximately similar potency (IC50 = 50-60 ng/ml). Remarkably however, DB was toxic at a concentration of 10 ng/ml, which is quite close to the inhibition-inducing dose. No toxicity was observed with CsA and TN at doses up to 5000 ng/ml. The agents TN and DB could interrupt ongoing T cell responses and could block responsiveness to exogenous recombinant IL-2. Expression of IL-2 receptors was slightly inhibited by all three drugs. Expression of MHC class II molecule HLA-D and of adhesion molecules LFA-1, LFA-3, and ICAM-1 was clearly reduced by DB, giving an explanation for the observed inhibition of cluster formation between T cells and APC/AC. Except for a slight reduction of LFA-3 by TN, CsA and TN did not affect the expression of any of these cell surface markers or the formation of clusters. Differences in the effects of CsA, TN, and DB on immune responses in vitro and on the phenotype of T cells and APC/AC suggest that these immunosuppressive drugs have different inhibitory mechanisms.
Stimulation of NK cell, T cell, and monocyte functions by the novel immunomodulator Linomide after autologous bone marrow transplantation. A pilot study in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.	Immunostimulatory therapy is at present considered after autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) in order to mimic the allogeneic graft-versus-leukemia effect and thereby reduce the relapse rate. In a pilot study, five adults with acute myeloid leukemia were treated with the new immunomodulator Linomide post-ABMT. Linomide (0.3 mg/kg/week orally) was given in cycles of three weeks followed by three weeks of rest for up to six months. During treatment periods cyclic increases of CD56+CD3- and CD16+ NK cells were observed in parallel with enhanced cytotoxic activity of patient cells against both the NK-sensitive K562 and NK-resistant Daudi cell lines. A cyclic increase of CD14+ monocytic cells was also recorded. The proliferative responses of patient cells to PHA and allogeneic cells (MLC) were enhanced during Linomide therapy. The in vitro production of TNF alpha, IFN gamma, and IL-1 followed the same cyclic increase during treatment periods. Side effects were generally mild, and no harmful effects on engraftment were seen. Linomide therapy after ABMT thus induces a broad immunostimulation that offers a potential benefit with regard to leukemia-free survival.
The immunosuppressive effect of methylmercury does not preclude development of autoimmunity in genetically susceptible mice.	Methylmercury (MeHg) is a common environmental pollutant due to both natural and anthropogenic sources. Although the central nervous system (CNS) is considered the critical organ for the toxic effect of MeHg, it has recently been suggested that the immune system might be at least as sensitive as the CNS. We have examined the effects of MeHg on the immune system in genetically metal-susceptible mice. Subcutaneous (sc) injections of 2 mg MeHg/kg body weight (bw) every third day (internal dose ca. 540 microg Hg/kg bw/day) to A.SW mice of the H-2(s) haplotype, caused during the first week a 47 and 9% reduction of B- and T-cells, respectively, which indicates immunosuppression. Subsequently, an autoimmune syndrome developed which shared certain features with the syndrome induced by inorganic mercury in H-2(s) mice, including antibodies targeting the 34 kDa nucleolar protein fibrillarin, increased expression of IL-4 mRNA, increase of Th2-type of immunoglobulins (IgE and IgG1), and increased MHC class II expression on B-cells. However, the response using MeHg was attenuated compared with even lower doses of Hg in the form of inorganic mercury, and specifically lacked the increased expression of IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA, the polyclonal B-cell activation (PBA), and the systemic immune-complex (IC) deposits which are induced by inorganic mercury. Increasing the dose of MeHg increased the titre of anti-nucleolar antibodies and shortened the induction time, but did not lead to stronger immunostimulation or systemic IC-deposits. The kidney and liver selectively accumulated MeHg, while the blood, spleen and lymph nodes showed lower levels of MeHg. The accumulation of MeHg and Hg(2+) increased throughout the 30-day period. The fraction of Hg(2+) in the kidney varied between 4 and 22%, and the lymph nodes showed a maximum of 30% Hg(2+). We conclude first that MeHg has quantitatively different effect on the immune system compared with inorganic mercury, and secondly that an initial immunosuppression induced by a xenobiotic does not preclude subsequent immunostimulation and autoimmunity.
Potentiation of T cell function by a marine algae-derived sulfated polymannuroguluronate: in vitro analysis of novel mechanisms.	Marine algae-derived sulfated polymannuroguluronate (SPMG), a candidate drug for AIDS treatment, was intraperitoneally injected into normal mice for 6 weeks, and the in vivo and in vitro mechanisms of SPMG for immunomodulation were investigated in isolated lymphocytes by MTT assay, flow cytometry, and surface plasmon resonance assay. SPMG treatment at 5 and 10 mg/kg enhanced concanavalin A (ConA)-induced T cell proliferation, cellular levels of CD69, interleukin-2 (IL-2), and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), as well as CD4/CD8 ratio, while decreasing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) level in T cells of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In addition, 1 molecule of SPMG bound to 2/3 molecules of IL-2 with a K(D) of 9.53 x 10(-7) M. Heparin prevented SPMG binding to IL-2 by 72.2%; thus, to a large extent, SPMG and heparin share common binding sites on IL-2. In contrast, other glycosaminoglycans (e.g., chondroitin sulfate and dermatan sulfate) had little effect on SPMG and IL-2 interaction, suggesting the requirement of a defined sequence within the sugar chain for specific recognition of IL-2. Concomitant treatment of IL-2 and SPMG augmented lymphocyte proliferation, compared with IL-2 alone; in contrast, SPMG alone had no proliferative effect. Taken together, our findings demonstrated for the first time that SPMG exerted its immunomodulation by direct activation of T cell function, accompanied by simultaneous modulation of cytokine function, which suggests that SPMG would show great promise for use in anti-AIDS therapy.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administration affects the thymopoiesis in adult female rats independently on gonadal hormone production.	In addition to having an indirect effect on the T-cell development by controlling the production of ovarian steroids, an accumulating body of evidence suggest that GnRH analogue (GnRH-A) administration may exert a thymopoietic regulatory effect that is not mediated by ovarian hormones.
Hydroxyurea exerts a cytostatic but not immunosuppressive effect on T lymphocytes.	To demonstrate that, despite a dose-dependent cytostatic effect, hydroxyurea (HU) does not have immunosuppressive effects.
Modulation of calcium fluxes in Jurkat T cells by myristic acid. Inhibition is independent of membrane potential and intracellular pH.	Treatment of T lymphocytes with mitogenic antibodies against the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex induces within seconds a rise in the concentration of intracellular free Ca2+. We recently reported that free myristic acid, but not its methyl ester, inhibits both the anti-CD3-induced Ca2+ influx across the cell membrane and the Ca2+ release from intracellular stores in Jurkat T cells. Here we show that myristic acid induced a rapid hyperpolarization of the cell membrane potential and a decrease in intracellular pH in Jurkat cells. Lauric acid and palmitic acid caused minor hyperpolarization, whereas other saturated non-esterified fatty acids tested were without effect. Hyperpolarization of the membrane potential in Jurkat cells with valinomycin did not, however, inhibit the anti-CD3-induced Ca2+ signal, and the blocking effect on the Ca2+ signal in myristic acid-treated Jurkat cells was not reversed after normalization of the cell membrane potential by treatment with gramicidin. The inhibitory effect of myristic acid on the Ca2+ fluxes thus cannot be explained by changes in membrane potential. We also present evidence that the blocking effect of myristic acid on the receptor-operated Ca2+ flux is not due to the myristic acid-induced decrease in intracellular pH. Moreover, we demonstrate that myristic acid does not prevent the release of Ca2+ triggered by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate from intracellular pools in permeabilized cells. Our findings indicate that myristic acid blocks anti-CD3-induced Ca2+ traffic in Jurkat cells by interfering with the regulation of Ca2+ mobilization, apparently by blocking an early step in signal transduction from the T-cell-antigen receptor/CD3 complex.
Comparison of the effects of mizoribine with those of azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and mycophenolic acid on T lymphocyte proliferation and purine ribonucleotide metabolism.	The immunosuppressive drug mizoribine has been demonstrated to inhibit T lymphocyte proliferation by depleting these cells of guanine ribonucleotides as a consequence of inhibiting the enzyme inosine monophosphate (IMP) dehydrogenase. Because the immunosuppressive agents azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) are both converted to the IMP analog 6-thio-IMP, we postulated that these drugs might inhibit T cell activation and/or proliferation by a similar mechanism. Incubation of isolated peripheral blood T cells with either mizoribine or the selective IMP dehydrogenase inhibitor mycophenolic acid caused a dose-dependent inhibition of T cell proliferation, which was reversible with the addition of 50 microM guanosine to replete guanine ribonucleotide pools. In contrast, guanosine exacerbated the inhibition of proliferation induced by azathioprine and restored proliferation at IC50 concentrations of 6MP by only 10%. Complete restoration of proliferation in the presence of 6MP, but not azathioprine, was achieved with the addition of adenine. The inhibitory effects of azathioprine, as well as those of mizoribine, 6MP, and mycophenolic acid, were identical in cells stimulated with antibody to the T cell receptor and in cells stimulated with phorbol ester and ionomycin. We conclude from these studies that mizoribine selectively inhibits guanine ribonucleotide formation in purified T cells, whereas the effect of 6MP appears to be more dependent on adenine ribonucleotide depletion. Azathioprine, on the other hand, inhibits proliferation by a mechanism independent of purine ribonucleotide depletion. None of these agents inhibits T cell proliferation by interfering with signal transduction mediated by the T cell receptor. Inhibition of guanine ribonucleotide biosynthesis appears to be a novel and perhaps more selective mechanism of inhibiting T cell proliferative responses after T cell activation.
Interleukin-4 differentially regulates tumor necrosis factor-alpha gene expression by human T lymphocytes and monocytes.	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a product of both mononuclear phagocytes and T lymphocytes, is an important proximal mediator of a number of acute and chronic inflammatory disease states. In this investigation we examine the regulatory effects of the lymphocyte product interleukin-4 (IL-4) on the gene expression of TNF-alpha from stimulated human peripheral blood monocytes (PBM) and T lymphocytes. We demonstrated the dose-dependent suppression of TNF-alpha mRNA and protein synthesis from lipopolysaccharide-treated PBM by IL-4. The suppressive effects of IL-4 appear to be dependent upon de novo protein synthesis, as cycloheximide abrogated the IL-4-induced reduction in TNF-alpha mRNA levels from PBM. In contrast to the suppressive effects of IL-4 on PBM-derived cytokine expression, IL-4 did not alter TNF-alpha mRNA expression from alpha-Cd3 or PMA + alpha-CD-28-treated T lymphocytes. Moreover, IL-2 mRNA expression from similarly treated T lymphocytes was unaltered by IL-4. Our findings demonstrate that disparity exists in the regulation of TNF-alpha gene expression from different immune cell populations which may have important implications in the evolution of acute and chronic inflammatory responses.
Immunosuppression by human gangliosides: I. Relationship of carbohydrate structure to the inhibition of T cell responses.	Causes of cellular immunodeficiency frequently associated with cancer remain poorly understood. One possible mechanism is tumor cell membrane shedding of immunosuppressive molecules, such as the sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids, gangliosides. To explore this interesting hypothesis and establish structure-activity relationships, we examined the effects of a series of highly purified human gangliosides on T cell function. In all, ten individual molecular species of two major biosynthetic pathways were compared for their ability to inhibit human T cell proliferative responses. They include GM1, GD1a, GD1b, and GT1b (the predominant normal brain species), and GM4, GM3, GM2, GD3, GD2 and GQ1b. Strikingly, each HPLC-purified molecule, from the simplest monosialoganglioside to the most complex polysialoganglioside, had potent inhibitory activity; even the ganglioside with the most elemental carbohydrate structure (GM4, one sialic acid linked to a monosaccharide) strongly inhibits T cell proliferative responses to tetanus toxoid (ID90 = 1.5 microM). The data also reveal a complex interplay between elements of oligosaccharide structure in determining immunosuppressive activity. Sialic acid is critical to maximal activity, and (i) immunosuppression is most potent in gangliosides containing a terminal sialic acid. (ii) Total desialylation almost abolishes activity and (iii) partial alteration (lactone formation) reduces activity. (iv) Activity is generally but not always higher with higher numbers of sialic acid residues/molecule, and (v) some larger neutral glycosphingolipids retain measurable immunosuppressive activity. Overall, the potent inhibition by gangliosides supports the hypothesis that shedding of these molecules by tumors creates a highly immunosuppressive microenvironment around the tumor, thereby inhibiting the function of infiltrating host leukocytes and contributing to diminished T cell responses in cancer.
Central corticotropin-releasing hormone reduces cellular immunity.	Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) acts within the brain to elicit changes in neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral activity similar to those observed after stress. A reduction of splenic natural killer (NK) activity has also been described following the central administration of CRH. In this study, we examined whether other in vitro measures of cellular immunity, including peripheral and splenic NK activity, lymphocyte responses to mitogen stimulation, and numbers of splenic T and NK cell subpopulations, are altered following CRH. Synthetic rat CRH (1.0 microgram) microinjected into the lateral ventricle reduced splenic and peripheral blood NK activity, lymphocyte responses to mitogenic stimulation, and percentage of splenic NK cell numbers. Numbers of splenic lymphocytes and T cell subpopulations were not altered by central CRH. These findings suggest that central CRH acts to reduce a number of in vitro cellular immune measures similar to the effects of inescapable stress.
Effects of of didanosine-related depletion of mtDNA in human T lymphocytes.	The normal metabolism of mitochondria in T lymphocytes is unknown, as are the effects from nucleoside-analogue reverse-transcriptase inhibitors that impair mitochondrial polymerase- gamma . We isolated peripheral-blood CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes from 6 healthy men and stimulated them with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, in the presence and in the absence of didanosine (ddI). In the absence of ddI, mitosis of T lymphocytes was paralleled by a transient up-regulation of both mtDNA and production of lactate. In CD4 lymphocytes, 10-day incubation with ddI at concentrations of 11.8 mu mol/L, 35.4 mu mol/L, 59.0 mu mol/L, and 118.0 mu mol/L induced (1) a concentration-dependent reduction of both mtDNA (to 73%, 29%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, of the levels in control samples) and subunit II of mtDNA-encoded cytochrome c oxidase (to 86%, 81%, 55%, and 31%, respectively, of the levels in control samples) and (2) a concentration-dependent increase in production of lactate (to 139%, 222%, 276%, and 312%, respectively, of the levels in control samples). Activation of lymphocytes (which was measured in terms of expression of CD25) was unaffected. Mitochondrial depolarization (assessed by staining with JC-1) was observed as early as day 7 of incubation. All changes were time dependent and also were observed in isolated CD8 lymphocytes. Electron microscopy revealed enlarged mitochondria with vacuoles, inclusions, and reduced electron density. ddI at a concentration of 11.8 mu mol/L induced changes that bordered statistical significance. After stimulation, there was a wide range in the change of mtDNA content in lymphocytes. Therefore, mtDNA measurements in blood are not necessarily a marker for the mitochondrial toxicity of ddI. Nevertheless, ddI does lead to depletion of mtDNA in lymphocytes and to functional impairment.
Modulation of voltage-gated potassium channels in human T lymphocytes by extracellular glutamate.	Glutamate is present in the plasma under tightly regulated concentrations. However, under conditions of immune deficiency, such as AIDS and malignancy, its plasma levels are highly elevated. In vitro, glutamate interacts with T lymphocytes, affecting mitogen-induced calcium responses, whereas at high doses, it impairs T lymphocyte proliferation, a process strongly dependent on the activity of voltage-gated potassium channels. In this study, we demonstrate novel dose-related effects of the endogenous ligand glutamate and its metabotropic and non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor agonists on the electrophysiological properties of native Kv1.3 channels of human T lymphocytes. Glutamate, at concentrations within normal plasma levels, positively modulates Kv1.3 channel gating, causing currents to activate faster and at significantly more hyperpolarized potentials, hence rendering the T lymphocyte readily responsive to immune stimuli. This effect is maximal at 1 microM Glu and is fully mimicked by a 100 microM concentration of the metabotropic receptor agonist trans-(1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid. Most importantly, Glu, at concentrations > or =100 microM, which in vitro produce suppression of mitogen-induced proliferation, significantly decreases whole-cell potassium currents by increasing current and steady-state inactivation. This effect saturates at 1000 microM and seems to result from the subsequent activation of low-affinity metabotropic Glu receptors, as suggested by specific agonist data. Therefore, the antiproliferative effects of high glutamate may, at least in part, result from its inhibitory effect on the potassium current, suggesting an in vivo immunosuppressive role of elevated plasma glutamate.
T cell homeostasis requires G protein-coupled receptor-mediated access to trophic signals that promote growth and inhibit chemotaxis.	Signals that regulate T cell homeostasis are not fully understood. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), such as the chemokine receptors, may affect homeostasis by direct signaling or by guiding T cell migration to distinct location-restricted signals. Here, we show that blockade of Galphai-associated GPCR signaling by treatment with pertussis toxin led to T cell atrophy and shortened life-span in T cell-replete hosts and prevented T cell homeostatic growth and proliferation in T cell-deficient hosts. In vitro, however, neither GPCR inhibition nor chemokine stimulation affected T cell atrophy, survival, or proliferation. These findings suggest that GPCR signals are not trophic stimuli, but instead may be required for migration to distinct trophic signals, such as IL-7 or self-peptide/MHC. Surprisingly, while chemokines did not affect atrophy, atrophic T cells displayed increased chemokine-induced chemotaxis that was prevented by IL-7 and submitogenic anti-CD3 antibody treatment. This increase in migration was associated with increased levels of GTP-bound Rac and the ability to remodel actin. These data suggest a novel mechanism of T cell homeostasis wherein GPCR may promote T cell migration to distinct location-restricted homeostatic trophic cues for T cell survival and growth. Homeostatic trophic signals, in turn, may suppress chemokine sensitivity and cytoskeletal remodeling, to inhibit further migration.
Apoptosis in human thymocytes after treatment with glucocorticoids.	Treatment of unfractionated human thymocytes in culture with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone induced cell death, as measured by trypan blue exclusion, after several hours of incubation. In purified subsets of human cortical and medullary thymocytes dexamethasone caused cell lysis with similar kinetics in both populations; 50% of thymocytes were killed after 20-24 h of incubation with the steroid. The mechanism of dexamethasone-induced cell death seems to correspond to apoptosis since degradation of DNA into oligonucleosome-sized fragments could be observed in the cultures treated with the steroid. A certain degree of DNA fragmentation and cell death could also be observed in control cultures of thymocytes. In contrast, peripheral T lymphocytes were resistant to the cytolytic effect of glucocorticoid hormone. The killing of human thymocytes by dexamethasone was inhibited by cycloheximide, suggesting that this cell death program requires a fully operating protein synthesis machinery and perhaps the induction of new proteins.
Functionally divergent T lymphocyte responses induced by modification of a self-peptide from a tumor-associated antigen.	The N- and C-terminal flanking domains of the invariant chain peptide, CLIP, have remarkable immunological properties. Addition of these flanking domains to a foreign peptide antigen increases its immunologic potency. The present studies evaluated whether altering a peptide ligand from the tumor-associated antigen c-neu with the flanking domains of CLIP could modify the systemic immune response. The results indicate that the immunogenicity of an MHC class II restricted peptide (NEU) derived from c-neu was significantly altered by addition of the flanking domains from CLIP. Interestingly, selective modification of the peptide with either the N- or the C-terminal flanking domains resulted in functionally divergent systemic immune responses. Immunization of normal F344 rats with the NEU peptide modified with the N-terminal domain of CLIP (N-NEU) resulted in an immune response primarily consisting of type 1 (IL-2, IFNgamma) cytokine producing T cells. On the other hand, type 2 (IL-4) cytokine responses were largely predominant following immunization with the self-peptide modified with the C-terminal flanking domain (NEU-C). The functionally divergent responses elicited by the modified self-peptides were accompanied by significant changes in the expression of the CD28/CTLA4/B7 family of co-stimulatory molecules. Immunization with the N-NEU peptide led to enhanced expression of CD28 in the antigen-specific, CD4+ T cell compartment while expression of B7.1 was dramatically reduced in antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. Comparatively, expression of CTLA4 was down-regulated in the antigen-specific CD4+ T cell compartment following immunization with NEU-C peptide. The N-NEU peptide also had a direct effect on dendritic cells leading to the up-regulation of B7.1 expression. Taken together, functionally divergent systemic immune responses can be elicited by strategically altering a self-peptide ligand with the N- and C-terminal flanking domains of CLIP. Moreover, changes in expression of co-stimulatory molecules that are required for T cell activation and T cell-T cell communication may account for the polarization of the immune response elicited by the chimeric peptides.
Immunosuppressive factors secreted by human amniotic epithelial cells.	Amniotic membrane has been applied to the ocular surface to restore corneal function. The beneficial effect of amniotic membrane transplantation may be due to the immunosuppressive effects of amniotic epithelial cells. The purpose of this study was to determine whether amniotic epithelial cells (AECs) secrete anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative factors that affect the chemotaxis of neutrophils and macrophages and suppress both T- and B-cell proliferation in vitro.
Airway cellular response to two different immunosuppressive regimens in lung transplant recipients.	A number of new immunosuppressive drugs have become available in transplant medicine. We investigated the effects of two different immunosuppressive protocols on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cellular characteristics in 34 lung transplant recipients who were treated with anti-thymocyte globulin induction therapy, cyclosporine, azathioprine (AZA), and prednisolone (regimen I), compared with 17 recipients receiving basiliximab induction, tacrolimus, AZA, and prednisolone (regimen II). We performed bronchoalveolar lavages between 15 and 40 d post-transplantation, in stable clinical condition and no acute rejection, cytomegalovirus, and/or respiratory tract infection. The regimen II treatment was associated with a significantly lower percentage lavage fluid lymphocytes than with regimen I. The CD4/CD8 ratio was significantly higher with regimen II than with regimen I: 1.56 (range 0.41-2.16) and 0.33 (0.04-0.95) respectively; p < 0.001, mainly because of a lower percentage CD8(+) cells with regimen II: 25% (12-51) vs. regimen I: 60% (34-77); p < 0.001. The percentage CD4(+) CD25(+) cells appeared lower with regimen II: 21% (10-88) vs. regimen I: 50% (0-87); p = 0.04. Overall survival was similar between the groups, whereas a beneficial trend in freedom of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome was observed with regimen II. Airway lymphocyte subtypes are affected by the immunosuppressive protocol used. This observation should be taken into account when studying transplant recipients, and may contribute to our understanding of alloreactive airway disease.
Infliximab induced T lymphocyte apoptosis in Crohn's disease.	Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract of unknown origin. Therapies include immune modulating agents, biological therapies, and surgery. The activity and efficacy of the anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapies infliximab and etanercept have proved to be different: infliximab is effective to induce and maintain remission in refractory CD, while etanercept is not. This brief review considers the question of whether this disparity can be explained by the different structure of the proteins, their different binding affinities, or the subsequent effects on T lymphocytes.
Amotosalen-treated donor T cells have polyclonal antigen-specific long-term function without graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	We have previously shown that amotosalen HCl (S-59 psoralen)-treated donor splenocytes, which have limited proliferative capacity in vitro, can protect major histocompatibility complex-mismatched bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients from lethal murine cytomegalovirus infection without causing graft-versus-host disease. In this study, we further investigated the effects of amotosalen-treated donor T cells on immune reconstitution after allogeneic BMT. We were surprised to find that amotosalen-treated donor T cells persisted long-term in vivo, comprising 6% to 10% on average of the T-cell compartment of transplant recipients at 4 months after transplantation. Donor T cells derived from amotosalen-treated splenocytes were predominantly polyclonal CD44 hi/int CD8 + memory T cells and were functionally active, synthesizing interferon gamma in response to stimulation with murine cytomegalovirus antigen. Amotosalen-treated donor T cells, reisolated from BMT recipients' spleens >/=4 months after transplantation, proliferated in vitro, thus indicating repair of amotosalen-mediated DNA cross-links. Compared with infusion of untreated donor splenocytes, amotosalen-treated cells enhanced thymopoiesis by bone marrow-derived stem cells in BMT recipients. However, amotosalen treatment abrogated the thymopoietic activity of lymphoid progenitor cells among the donor splenocytes. Thus, infusion of amotosalen-treated donor T cells produced rapid immune reconstitution after major histocompatibility complex-mismatched BMT by transferring long-lived polyclonal memory T cells with antiviral activity and also by enhancing bone marrow-derived thymopoiesis. This is a novel approach to adoptive immunotherapy in allogeneic BMT.
Rapamycin selectively expands CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells.	Rapamycin is an immunosuppressive compound that is currently used to prevent acute graft rejection in humans. In addition, rapamycin has been shown to allow operational tolerance in murine models. However, a direct effect of rapamycin on T regulatory (Tr) cells, which play a key role in induction and maintenance of peripheral tolerance, has not been demonstrated so far. Here, we provide new evidence that rapamycin selectively expands the murine naturally occurring CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) Tr cells in vitro. These expanded Tr cells suppress proliferation of syngeneic T cells in vitro and prevent allograft rejection in vivo. Interestingly, rapamycin does not block activation-induced cell death and proliferation of CD4(+) T cells in vitro. Based on this new mode of action, rapamycin can be used to expand CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) Tr cells for ex vivo cellular therapy in T-cell-mediated diseases.
Peripheral blood T cell immuno-tolerance in PBSCT donors induced by rhG-CSF in vivo]	The study was aimed to investigate the mechanism of T cell tolerance in human peripheral blood induced by rhG-CSF in vivo. Dendritic cell (DC) subsets, CD8(+)CD28(-) T suppressor cells and the expression of CD28 on T cells of peripheral blood before and after mobilization were analyzed by multicolor flow cytometry. The results showed that after mobilization by rhG-CSF in vivo, the relative counts of CD3(+)CD28(+) cells increased significantly (P < 0.01), and so did the CD8(+)CD28(+) cells (P < 0.01). The mean fluorescence intensity of CD28 expression on CD3(+) cells decreased greatly (P < 0.05), but there were no significant changes of the relative fluorescence intensity of CD28 overall expression on T cells (P > 0.05). The percentages of DC2 before mobilization were significantly lower as compared with normal bone marrow (P < 0.01). After using rhG-CSF, the DC2 count was significantly higher in the apheresis graft than in peripheral blood and bone marrow before mobilization (P < 0.01), while the DC1:DC2 ratios were lower (P < 0.01) and there was no significant difference of DC1 before and after mobilization (P > 0.05). The percentages of CD8(+)CD28(-) T suppressor cells increased significantly also after mobilization (P < 0.05). It is concluded that the higher numbers of DC2 and CD8(+)CD28(-) T suppressor cells in peripheral blood grafts may contribute to the ability of tolerance in peripheral blood T cells induced by rhG-CSF in vivo.
Changes in innate and acquired immune responses in mice with targeted deletion of the dopamine transporter gene.	The dopamine transporter (DAT) is responsible for the re-uptake of dopamine into presynaptic nerve terminals and thereby controls dopaminergic neurotransmission. Deletion of DAT results in a hyperdopaminergic phenotype and DAT(-/-) mice are characterized by pituitary hypoplasia, impaired maternal behavior, and increased locomotion. From earlier studies, we have evidence that the activity of the central dopaminergic system may play a role in determining immune reactivity and disease susceptibility. To further explore the functional relation between the dopaminergic system and the immune system, we investigated the activity of the immune system in DAT(-/-) mice. We show that in vitro, splenocytes from DAT(-/-) mice displayed reduced natural killer cell activity and reduced mitogen-induced cytokine responses. In contrast, LPS-induced cytokine production by macrophages was enhanced. In vivo, the cellular response to immunization with ovalbumine (OVA-induced delayed type hypersensitivity response) was significantly reduced. Interestingly, the OVA-induced humoral response (anti-OVA IgG) was increased in DAT(-/-) mice compared to wild-type animals. Plasma levels of catecholamines and corticosterone did not differ significantly between DAT(-/-) and wild-type animals. In conclusion, we show in the present study that interfering with the dopaminergic system has major consequences for both the acquired and the innate immune response.
Activated T lymphocytes and macrophages secrete fibronectin which strongly supports cell adhesion.	Matrix-bound fibronectin (FN) appears to be involved in cell adhesion and motility mediated by integrin receptors. Although lymphoid cells and other cell types are capable of producing and secreting FN, the precise role of this secreted FN-like factor in regulating immune reactions is unclear. In the present study we analyzed the adhesive properties of FN secreted by rat CD4+ T cells and clone cells activated by the T cell mitogen concanavalin A (Con A), antigen, or via the CD2 pathways, or by macrophages (M phi) activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Immobilized culture supernatant (CS) from the activated T cells or M phi supports the adhesion of activated rat or human CD4+ T cell or murine tumor cell. These CS contained FN and were more potent at facilitating cell adhesion then plasma FN. The adhesion activity of CS was attributed to FN because (a) gelatin columns depleted the FN present in the CS and (b) pretreating the cells with peptides of the cell-binding domain of FN abrogated their ability to bind CS. CS-mediated adhesion appears to occur primarily via the recognition of the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) by the beta 1-integrin-specific receptors of the adhesive cells. Thus, we postulate that FN secreted by various types of leukocytes is involved in promoting essential cell-matrix interactions, possibly affecting cell-adhesive and migratory processes at inflammatory or extravasation sites.
Suppression of human interferon-gamma production by a 17 amino acid peptide homologous to the transmembrane envelope protein of retroviruses: evidence for a primary role played by monocytes.	CKS-17, a synthetic amino acid peptide homologous to a highly conserved region of retroviral transmembrane protein exerts a suppressive action on staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA)-induced the production of IFN-gamma by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) (Ogasawara et al., J. Immunol. 141, 615, 1988). This action has been shown in the present study to be preceded by dramatic clustering of PBMC. Clusters appear within 3 hr of exposure of PBMC to CKS-17; they are dose dependent, inhibited by cycloheximide, and require a temperature of 37 degrees C. The cells in the clusters are predominantly monocytes. Although it has been previously shown that CKS-17 inhibits monocyte-mediated killing by inactivating IL-1 (Kleinerman et al., J. Immunol. 139, 2329, 1987) and production of IL-2 by murine thymoma cells treated with IL-1 (Gottlieb et al., J. Immunol. 142, 4321, 1989), in the present study we show that IL-1 does not prevent clustering of PBMC by CKS-17. Using CKS-17 and highly purified monocytes or lymphocytes, profound alterations occur only with monocytes, as revealed by light or electron microscopy. SEA- or staphylococcal enterotoxin B-induced production of IFN-gamma is inhibited when highly purified monocytes pretreated with CKS-17 are cocultured with highly purified T lymphocytes. Thus, CKS-17 induces dramatic clustering of cells apparently by inducing alterations of monocytes but not lymphocytes, suggesting that CKS-17 may interfere with the capacity of monocytes to facilitate production of IFN-gamma by T lymphocytes.
WASP deficiency leads to global defects of directed leukocyte migration in vitro and in vivo.	Intact cellular migration is critically important for the induction and regulation of the immune response. The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) regulates surface receptor signaling to the actin cytoskeleton in hematopoietic cells and thus plays a pivotal role in cellular locomotion. WASP deficiency causes the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), characterized by immunodeficiency, thrombocytopenia, and eczema. Cell migration defects may contribute to the pathophysiology of WAS. In this study, we used a variety of in vitro and in vivo assays to comprehensively analyze migration properties of lymphocytes, dendritic cells (DC), and neutrophils from WASP-deficient mice. We provide evidence that WASP-deficient lymphocytes show a marked reduction in tethering in an in vitro flow chamber assay as well as decreased migration of T cells in response to the CC chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19). In vivo, compared with wild-type lymphocytes, WASP-deficient lymphocytes showed significantly impaired homing to Peyer's patches upon adoptive transfer into recipient mice. In addition, bone marrow-derived DC migrated less efficiently in response to CCL19. In vivo studies showed decreased migration of DC from skin to draining lymph nodes in WASP-deficient animals. Finally, we also document decreased neutrophil migration in vitro and in vivo. In summary, our studies suggest that WASP plays an important role in the locomotion of lymphocytes, DC, and granulocytes in vitro and in vivo and thus, reveal a crucial role of WASP in physiological trafficking of various hematopoietic cell lineages. These results further delineate immunological abnormalities in WASP-deficient mice, which will be useful to assess preclinical gene therapy studies.
Complete replacement of membrane cholesterol with 4,4',14-trimethyl sterols in a human T cell line defective in lanosterol demethylation.	A3.01 is a hypoxanthine/aminopterin/thymidine-sensitive, human immunodeficiency virus-susceptible, human T cell line derived by Folks et al. (Folks, T., Benn, S., Rabson, A., Theodore, T., Hoggan, M. D., Martin, M., Lightfoote, M., and Sell, K. (1985) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82, 4539-4543) following exposure of CEM cells to 8-azaguanine. In the present study, it is shown that A3.01 also contains a heretofore unrecognized mutation in cholesterol biosynthesis. A3.01 cells grown in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) contain primarily cholesterol in their membranes, but based on [14C]acetate labeling, synthesize only lanosterol and 24,25-dihydrolanosterol. Reduction in the amount of FBS provided resulted in decreased cellular levels of cholesterol with corresponding increases in the two 4,4',14-trimethyl sterols. In A3.01 cells cultured in 1% FBS medium, lanosterol and 24,25-dihydrolanosterol accounted for 7 and 45%, respectively, of total cellular sterols. Following dilution of the 1% FBS-grown cells into serum-free media, the level of membrane cholesterol gradually declined, such that after three passages it became virtually undetectable, whereas the proportions of lanosterol and 24,25-dihydrolanosterol rose to 25 and 75%, respectively. Even after eight passages in the serum-free media, A3.01 cells displayed a complete absence of cholesterol with no obvious effect on cell growth. Membranes isolated from A3.01 cells grown in the presence or absence of 10 micrograms/ml of cholesterol displayed similar phospholipid:sterol ratios, but membranes from the unsupplemented cells contained only approximately 5% as much cholesterol as the supplemented cell membranes. Finally, A3.01 cells grown in the absence of cholesterol were extremely resistant to the cytotoxic effects of amphotericin B, whereas cells cultured in the combined presence of 1% FCS and 10 micrograms/ml of cholesterol were sensitive to the drug. Collectively, these results demonstrate that 4,4',14-trimethyl sterols can effectively replace cholesterol in a human T cell lineage, indicating that not all mammalian cells have a requirement for cholesterol, per se. The A3.01 T cell lineage should prove useful in defining the role of cholesterol in membrane fusion and human immunodeficiency virus-mediated syncitia formation and cytopathic effects.
Dual action of 2,3-butanedione monoxime (BDM) on K+ current in human T lymphocytes.	Originally developed as antidotes to organophosphorus nerve poisons, the oximes have attracted renewed interest in studies of cellular regulation. In particular, 2,3-butanedione monoxime (BDM) has gained attention as a useful membrane-permeant "chemical phosphatase" for studying roles of protein phosphorylation. It has been proposed that effects of BDM on cardiac muscle tension, action potentials, neuromuscular transmission and ion currents are related to dephosphorylation of substrates as diverse as myofibrils and ion channels. In the present study, voltage-dependent K+ currents in human T lymphocytes were studied using the whole cell patch clamp technique. Preincubating intact cells briefly in 5 mM BDM before recording reduced the K+ current in an irreversible manner, consistent with chemical (phosphatase?) modification of the channels. In contrast, acute BDM treatment produced a rapid, reversible block of K+ current with half block at about 5 mM. Moreover, including adenosine-O-5'-(3-thiotriphosphate) (500 microM) in the patch pipette did not prevent the rapid, reversible block by BDM. Under these conditions, the most likely mechanism was a direct block of channels from the outside. Because similar K+ currents are present in many tissue and cell types, a direct channel block suggests caution in interpreting the effects of oximes as resulting from protein dephosphorylation.
Inhibitors of human purine nucleoside phosphorylase. Synthesis of pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidines, a new class of purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors as potentially T-cell selective immunosuppressive agents. Description of 2,6-diamino-3,5-dihydro-7-(3-thienylmethyl)-4H-pyrrolo[3,2-d] pyrimidin-4-one.	Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) is a purine-metabolizing enzyme in the purine cascade and has been a target for drug design for sometime. A series of potent human PNP inhibitors, pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidines (9-deazaguanines), has been synthesized and evaluated in the enzyme assay and in the cell line assay using MOLT-4 (T-cell) and MGL-8 (B-cell) lymphoblasts for selectivity. One of the compounds, 2,6-diamino-3,5- dihydro-7-(3-thienylmethyl)-4H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine-4-one (11c; CI-972), was found to be moderately potent, competitive, and reversible inhibitor of PNP with Ki = 0.83 microM. It was also found to be selectively cytotoxic to MOLT-4 lymphoblasts (IC50 = 3.0 microM) but not to MGL-8 lymphoblasts and was evaluated further. Compound 11c (CI-972) is under development in the clinic.
Immunosuppressive property of a very high purity antihaemophilic preparation: a low molecular weight component inhibits an early step of PHA induced cell activation.	Immune deficiency has been reported in haemophiliac patients receiving antihaemophilic factor VIII preparations, but the mechanisms involved in the immunosuppression are not fully understood. By using the proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) as a test system, we investigated the inhibitory influence of a very high purity antihaemophilic factor (AHF) preparation on T cell proliferation and on T lymphocyte activation molecules. We observed that this preparation reduced significantly the PHA-induced mononuclear cell proliferation, independently of the monocyte concentration. The AHF preparation did not act through a cytotoxic mechanism or a steric hindrance of PHA. The AHF preparation had no effect on the immediate expression of T lymphocyte activation molecules such as CD54 (ICAM-1). In contrast, the very high purity AHF reduced the induced expression of two early T cell activation molecules: CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor) and CD71 (transferrin receptor). The very high purity AHF also had the capacity to inhibit the up-regulation of two late activation antigens, CD38 and CD11a/CD18, and to inhibit the induced expression of HLA-DR molecule, defined also as a late T cell activation molecule. The CD45R expression level, used as a control marker, was not changed after AHF exposure. The very high purity AHF therefore influenced an early step of cell proliferation. We have also shown that the immunoregulatory properties of the preparation were not restricted to the factor VIII itself, but resulted from the presence of dialysable and low molecular weight components in the preparation.
Phorbol esters up-regulate p55 and down-regulate p75 expression of interleukin-2 receptors in human T cells.	We examined the effects of phorbol esters on the expression of interleukin 2 receptors (IL-2R) in T cell clones. By flow cytometric analysis, we found that phorbol esters up-regulated IL-2R p55 expression, while they down-regulated p75 expression. The expression of IL-2R p55 in T cell clones treated with phorbol esters showed an initial transient and marginal decrease, which was followed by a progressive increase after 6 h of incubation. On the other hand, the expression of IL-2R p75 progressively decreased to a minimum plateau level. Down-regulation of p75 was also revealed in cells treated with diacylglycerols instead of phorbol esters, but there was no up-regulation of p55 in these cells. Moreover, in the presence of cycloheximide, phorbol esters down-regulated p75 expression but did not up-regulate p55 expression. Therefore, it seems that a transient activation of protein kinase C (PKC) is sufficient to down-regulate p75, but not to up-regulate p55, and that a novel protein synthesis is required to increase p55 expression.
In vitro mutational specificity of cisplatin in the human hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene.	The in vitro mutational spectra of cisplatin [cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II)] in exon 3 of the human hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene in B-lymphoblasts was examined by a combination of polymerase chain reaction and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Several thousand independent mutants were induced at the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase locus by cisplatin and were selected en masse by addition of 6-thioguanine to the bulk culture. Polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify exon 3 from the complex mutant population, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to separate wild-type DNA sequences from mutant sequences. Mutational hotspots were visible as discrete bands on the denaturing gradient gel. Scanning densitometry was used to determine the fraction of the complex population represented by the novel bands. The mutant bands were excised from the denaturing gradient gel and sequenced. In this way, the nature and frequency of mutational hotspots in a population of several thousand mutants were determined. Cisplatin produced several mutational hotspots in exon 3. About 9-10% of the cisplatin-induced mutants had mutations in a GGGGGG sequence (base pairs 207-212). GC----AT substitutions at the second and third guanines in the 5'-GGGGGG-3' run made up about 2 and 4% of the induced mutants, respectively. About 4% of the induced mutants contained a GC----TA substitution at the sixth guanine. About 1% of the cisplatin-induced mutants had an AT----TA transversion in a TAGA sequence (base pair 271; mutated base is underlined). Our results are consistent with mutations occurring at GpG and ApG sites. These nucleotide sequences have been identified as the primary sites of cisplatin adduction.
Inhibiting effects of serotonin antagonists on the proliferation of mercuric chloride stimulated human peripheral blood T lymphocytes.	The serotonin antagonists ketanserin and methiotepine were tested for a modulating effect on the proliferative response of human peripheral blood T lymphocytes to mercuric chloride. This response was inhibited by ketanserin at 8 x 10(-5) mol/l and by methiotepine at 8.0 x 10(-6) mol/l. There were no additive effects at these concentrations of antagonists and at 10(-5) mol/l of serotonin. Low concentrations of ketanserin eliminated the inhibiting effect of serotonin on mercuric chloride induced proliferation of T lymphocytes. It thus seems as if the inhibiting effect of serotonin on T lymphocytes is mediated by 5-HT1c or 5-HT2 receptors, while the mechanism for the intrinsic inhibiting effect of the antagonists at present is unknown.
Thymosin alpha one restores murine T-cell-mediated responses inhibited by in vivo cocaine administration.	The effects of different in vivo thymosin alpha one (T alpha 1) treatments on T-cell responses inhibited by cocaine abuse were studied. Administration during cocaine treatment promoted a faster recovery of normal natural killer (NK) cell activity after the suspension of abuse. Suspension of cocaine plus repeated T alpha 1 administrations strongly restored NK activity and, interestingly, spleen cells from mice treated with T alpha 1 during and after cocaine administration achieved a very rapid recovery and the greatest stimulation of natural cytotoxicity. This last treatment also restored the cocaine-inhibited specific T-cell response (i.e. allogeneic cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) generation) and abrogated the cocaine-induced suppression of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin 2 (IL-2) and IL-4 production. Finally restoration and induction of thymic cellularity were significant when T alpha 1 was given during and after cocaine administration. The present investigation provides evidence for the first time that thymic hormones could be of potential value in controlling cocaine-induced impairment of T-cell-mediated immunity in the mouse.
Influence of ST 789 on murine thymocytes: a flow cytometry study of thymocyte subset distribution and of intracellular free Ca++ increase upon activation. Murine thymocytes and ST 789.	The coordinate expression of CD4 and CD8 antigens defines four major subsets of adult mouse thymocytes (CD4+CD8-, CD4+CD8+, CD4-CD8+ and CD4-CD8-) that represent definite steps in the differentiative pathway of immature T-lymphocytes. Thymocytes from adult C57BL/6 mice were cultured in the presence of ST 789, an L-Arg synthetic derivative of hypoxanthine, (1 to 100 micrograms/ml) or PHA 60.1 to 1 microgram/ml), or both for 48 hours, and then stained with monoclonal antibodies to CD4 and CD8 antigens for dual color flow cytometry analysis. The expression of CD25, was also investigated. ST 789 was ineffective in modifying the distribution of the four thymocyte subsets and did not induce the appearance of CD25 on cortical thymocytes. PHA induced a dramatic dose-dependent decrease of the CD4+CD8+ subset that, however, was neither enhanced nor antagonized by ST 789. We also tested ST 789 for its ability to stimulate intracellular free Ca++ rise in thymocytes. The compound was ineffective in this assay. Conversely, thymocytes promptly responded to PHA stimulation. It is concluded that ST 789 has no effect on normal adult thymocyte differentiation/activation pathway.
Inhibition of in vitro immunoglobulin production by rapamycin.	Like FK506, rapamycin, a structural analog of FK506, is a strong immunosuppressant. The immunosuppressive effect of Rapa in in vitro IgG, IgM, and IgA production by human lymphocytes was examined in this study. To inhibit spontaneous or pokeweed mitogen-stimulated production of Ig by human peripheral blood lymphocytes, about one thousandfold lower concentrations of Rapa (IC50 = 0.3 nM-2 nM) were required than of cyclosporine (IC50 = 0.3 microM-2 microM). T cells were the direct targets of Rapa, because preincubation of T cells with Rapa abolished the T cells helper effect to T-dependent Ig production. Rapa also had direct suppressive effect on B cells, since Rapa suppressed IgG production by pure B cells stimulated with IL2 and Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I. Kinetic studies measuring IgG production and cell proliferation revealed that Rapa acted at the activation stage of T and B cells. Exogenous IL2 substantially reversed the inhibitory effect of CsA but not that of Rapa in Ig production. This study is the first report on the strong suppressive effect of Rapa on human humoral immune response with a quantitative comparison with that of CsA. The underlying mechanisms are also explored. The results indicate the potential usefulness of this drug in treatment of presensitized transplantation patients, with whom cytotoxic Ab is a major obstacle to a successful transplantation.
Ability of tolerized Th1 and Th2 clones to stimulate B cell activation and cell cycle progression.	Tolerant and nontolerant murine Th1 and Th2 clones, specific for human gamma-globulin (HGG), were compared for their ability to promote cell cycle entry and progression by B cells in vitro. When stimulated with HGG, nontolerant Th1 and Th2 clones induced similar increases in B cell membrane MHC class II levels--a phenomenon associated with early B cell activation. Nontolerant Th1 and Th2 clones also induced B cell DNA synthesis, an event associated with subsequent G1 phase traversal, although Th2 cells were more efficient than Th1 cells in stimulating this activity. Exposure of Th clones to tolerogen in the form of HGG-pulsed chemically fixed APC inhibited the ability of Th1 clones, but not Th2 clones to promote polyclonal B cell DNA synthesis in HGG-stimulated secondary cultures. However, Th1 clones exposed to tolerogen did not lose their ability to increase the expression of MHC class II molecules on B cells in these cultures. These results indicate that tolerance induction does not inhibit the ability of Th1 clones promote B cell cycle progression. In contrast, exposure of Th2 cells to tolerogen does not inhibit significantly the ability of these cells to stimulate B cell cycle entry or progression.
A prenylbisabolane with NF-kappaB inhibiting properties from Cascarilla (Croton eluteria).	Investigation of the bark of Croton eluteria Bennett for biologically active compounds has led to the isolation of the new prenylbisabolane 3, whose structure was assessed by spectroscopic methods. The corresponding known enone 4 and the eudesmane sesquiterpene 2 were also obtained. Compound 3 proved active in selectively inhibiting the induction of NF-kappaB by tumor necrosis factor-alpha in T cells.
Changes in the relative amount of subunits of methionine adenosyltransferase in human lymphocytes upon stimulation with a polyclonal T cell mitogen.	Activation of resting human peripheral blood T lymphocytes by the lectin phytohemagglutinin results in an increase in methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT) activity, accompanied by an increase in the amount of the alpha/alpha' catalytic subunits of the enzyme. In contrast, the amount of the noncatalytic beta subunit remains constant throughout the course of the response. Using both polyclonal antibodies to the holoenzyme and monoclonal antibodies to the alpha/alpha' subunits, we detected a cross-reactive 68-kDa protein, which we refer to as lambda. This protein is present in high abundance in resting T cells but decreases upon cell stimulation, as both MAT activity and the amount of the catalytic alpha/alpha' subunits increase. The decrease in lambda and increase in alpha/alpha' occurs after interleukin-2 production and before DNA synthesis. lambda virtually disappears when the cells are actively dividing. Several continuous T cell lines (HPB-ALL, MOLT-4, and Jurkat) as well as a freshly isolated T cell leukemia (ALL-2) had no detectable lambda. The Km for L-methionine for enzyme from resting peripheral blood mononuclear cells was 19-23 microM, which is 3-8-fold higher than purified MAT from fresh leukemic cells or enzyme from Jurkat cells, both of which have a Km of 3.5-3.8 microM. Kinetic analysis of enzyme activity from activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells suggested the presence of two forms of enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of AdoMet. After separation of lambda from the alpha and beta subunits by hydrophobic chromatography, it was determined that lambda has MAT activity but that it is significantly less active than the form containing the alpha subunit. It therefore appears that in resting T cells MAT is sequestered as a less active form. We hypothesize that lambda is a precursor to the catalytic subunits of human lymphocyte MAT and propose that the transition from lambda to alpha/alpha' may be important in the response of T cells to mitogenic signals.
Listeriolysin O is a target of the immune response to Listeria monocytogenes.	The immunologic mechanism of protective immunity to the intracellular parasite Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) is not well understood, however, antilisterial immunity can be adoptively transferred with T lymphocytes from Lm-immune donors. The Lm-immune cells are believed to produce macrophage-activating lymphokines, which leads to the eventual macrophage-dependent eradication of the bacterium. Increasing evidence suggests that immunity to Lm resides exclusively within the CD8+ T cell subset. It is possible that the Lm-immune CD8+ T cells function to release sequestered Lm from nonprofessional phagocytes to awaiting activated macrophage populations. This study was conducted to determine if listeriolysin O (LLO), which is an essential determinant of Lm pathogenicity, is also a target of the antilisterial immune response. We have found that target cells infected with a LLO+ Lm strain are lysed by Lm-immune cytotoxic cells, whereas target cells infected with a LLO- Lm mutant, or pulsed with a heat-killed Lm preparation, are not lysed by the Lm-immune effector cells. We have used a Bacillus subtilis (Bs) construct that expresses the LLO gene product and found that target cells infected with the LLO+ Bs construct are lysed by antilisterial cytotoxic cells. The antilisterial cytotoxic response is targeted against LLO, in that we have also used a Bs construct that expresses the perfringolysin (PLO) gene product and found that target cells infected with the PLO+ Bs are not lysed by antilisterial cytotoxic effector cells. These data strongly suggest that LLO is a target antigen of antilisterial immunity and may represent the dominant target during the expression of the immune response to Lm.
Major histocompatibility complex independent clonal T cell anergy by direct interaction of Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin B with the T cell antigen receptor.	The Staphylococcal enterotoxin superantigens stimulate vigorous responses in T cells bearing certain T cell antigen receptor (TCR) V beta regions. In addition to activation, these superantigens also impart negative signals to T cells resulting in a profound state of unresponsiveness or anergy. The Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins (SE) B and C2 bind to a closely related site on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR1 molecules. Only SEB, however, interacts with the TCR V beta 3 region of HA1.7, a human HLA-DR1 restricted T cell clone specific for influenza haemagglutinin. In competition experiments, we demonstrated that the induction of anergy in HA1.7 by SEB is unaffected by the presence of SEC2. These results suggest that SEB-induced anergy is MHC independent and involves a direct interaction between the TCR and SEB. To resolve definitively whether SEB binds directly to T cells in the absence of MHC class II molecules, the cDNAs encoding the HA1.7 TCR were transfected into an MHC class II-negative human T cell line. The addition of SEB to these transfectants resulted in the downregulation of cell surface TCR expression, an increase in the concentration of intracellular calcium ions, the production of lymphokines, and reduced responsiveness to a subsequent challenge with SEB. We conclude that SEB interacts directly with the TCR in the absence of cointeraction with MHC class II molecules, and that this interaction may induce anergy in HA1.7.
Rejection of skin allografts by indirect allorecognition of donor class I major histocompatibility complex peptides.	LEW (RT1l) rats were immunized with peptides corresponding to the alpha helical region of the alpha 1 domain (peptide 1), the beta sheet of the alpha 2 domain (peptide 2), and the alpha helical region of the alpha 2 domain (peptide 3) of the RT1-Aav1 classical class I molecule of the DA (RT1av1) strain. The immunizations were without carriers, and the objective was to prime to indirect allorecognition without influencing direct recognition of the RT1-Aav1 molecule. The LEW rats mounted strong primary and secondary antibody responses to peptides 1 and 3, but only weak secondary responses to peptide 2. None of the antipeptide antibodies crossreacted with intact RT1-Aav1 class I molecules. The immunization also resulted in LEW antigen-presenting cell-dependent, CD4+ T cell proliferative responses, which were very strong against peptide 1 and weakest against peptide 2. LEW rats immunized with peptides 1 or 3, but most effectively with both peptides 1 and 3 together, showed accelerated rejection of DA skin allografts. This effect was not observed in LEW rats immunized with peptide 2. In response to the DA skin allograft, the peptide-immunized LEW rats showed markedly accelerated kinetics of antibody production to the intact RT1-Aav1 molecule. These data demonstrate that indirect allorecognition can play an important role in allograft rejection and have important implications for understanding allograft rejection and its regulation.
Phorbol myristate acetate-induced expression of high-affinity interleukin 2 receptors and production of interleukin 2 by human acute lymphoblastic leukemia T cells.	The effect of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) on the expression of interleukin 2 receptors (IL-2R), production of IL-2 and IL-2-dependent proliferation of acute lymphoblastic leukemia T cells (T-ALL cells) from 10 patients was studied. First, the effect of PMA on the expression of cell surface markers was assessed: a decrease of CD3 and CD4, and an enhanced expression of CD8 molecule were observed on T-ALL cells. Moreover, PMA exhibited an heterogenous effect on various activation-associated molecules such as a decreased expression of transferrin receptor and T10 molecule and an induced expression of 4F2 and CD9 molecules. It is known that functional high-affinity IL-2R are composed of at least two IL2 binding molecules, the alpha (p55) and beta (p70) chains. We found that PMA induced the expression of both IL-2R alpha and IL-2R beta chains, as well as IL-2 production by T-ALL cells. These effects were time- and dose-dependent. Cross-linking experiments with 125I-labelled recombinant IL-2 (125I-rIL-2) revealed both p55 (IL-R alpha) and p70 (IL-2R beta) IL-2-binding polypeptides, whereas binding equilibrium assays on PMA-treated cells demonstrated the presence of a low number (31-413) of high-affinity binding sites/cell in five out of six cases analysed, as well as intermediate affinity IL-2R (1234-3919 sites/cell) in four out of six cases, according to the time of incubation with PMA. In two cases tested high-affinity IL-2R on PMA-treated T-ALL cells could internalize 125I-rIL-2 at 37 degrees C. PMA alone enhanced the spontaneous proliferation of T-ALL cells in three cases, whereas a clear synergy between IL-2 and PMA could be detected in three patients' cells. Moreover, exogenous rIL-2 enhanced cell proliferation of PMA-preincubated T-ALL cells in four cases studied. Taken together, these observations indicate that a short-term incubation of T-ALL cells with PMA can activate the IL-2/IL-2R system on these cells without inducing strong modifications of their differentiation status. These results thus suggest that this system may be involved in the proliferation process of some activated immature T cells.
Immunity disorders in an acute destructive pancreatitis and methods of their correction]	Immune status in patients with destructive pancreatitis (DP) in long persisting disease and after performance of operative intervention was studied. Signs of secondary combined immunodeficiency were revealed, manifested by decrease of absolute quantity of all lymphocytes populations by 20-70% and concentration of immunoglobulins in blood serum by more than 40%. Conventional therapy did not influence indexes of immunogramm while using immunoglobulin for intravenous injection (IGII), besides saturation of blood by antibodies, the complement activities are increasing as well as indexes of the phagocytes functional state. Application of IGII had promoted the decrease of the patients state severity, normalization of clinico-laboratory data, causing the mortality lowering (P < 0.05), decrease of the treatment duration of survived patients (P < 0.05).
Rocaglamide derivatives are immunosuppressive phytochemicals that target NF-AT activity in T cells.	Aglaia (family Meliaceae) plants are used in traditional medicine (e.g., in Vietnam) for the treatment of inflammatory skin diseases and allergic inflammatory disorders such as asthma. Inflammatory diseases arise from inappropriate activation of the immune system, leading to abnormal expression of genes encoding inflammatory cytokines and tissue-destructive enzymes. The active compounds isolated from these plants are derivatives of rocaglamide. In this study we show that rocaglamides are potent immunosuppressive phytochemicals that suppress IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-2, and IL-4 production in peripheral blood T cells at nanomolar concentrations. We demonstrate that rocaglamides inhibit cytokine gene expression at the transcriptional level. At the doses that inhibit cytokine production, they selectively block NF-AT activity without impairing NF-kappaB and AP-1. We also show that inhibition of NF-AT activation by rocaglamide is mediated by strong activation of JNK and p38 kinases. Our study suggests that rocaglamide derivatives may serve as a new source of NF-AT-specific inhibitors for the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases.
Presence and active synthesis of the 67 kDa elastin-receptor in human circulating white blood cells.	Early after the identification of the elastin-receptor (El-R) on mesenchymal cells, it was demonstrated that phagocytic cells and lymphocytes could also respond to elastin peptides. Nevertheless, the level of El-R expression has never been demonstrated on immune cells and no data exist whether these cells actively synthesize this El-R. Thus, our aim in the present work was to study the expression and number of El-R on white blood cells (WBC) using a specific 67 kDa El-R antibody and to demonstrate the presence of mRNA corresponding to the gene coding for El-R. Our results show that messenger RNA corresponding to the presumptive gene coding for the 67 kDa El-R subunit could be detected in all three WBC-types investigated. On all of these WBC, the presence of El-R could be demonstrated, however their number and their function varied following the cell type. The presence of El-R is very important for the interaction of circulating cell with the matrix as these cells intervene during atherosclerosis and in host defence.
Allicin, the active component of garlic, prevents immune-mediated, concanavalin A-induced hepatic injury in mice.	Allicin, the immunologically active component of garlic, has been found to affect oxidative stress and immune response in several experimental systems. In the present study, we examined the ability of allicin to prevent immune-mediated, concanavalin A (Con A)-induced liver damage in mice.
Effects of the kinase inhibitor CGP41251 (PKC 412) on lymphocyte activation and TNF-alpha production.	CGP41251 is a serine/threonine and tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is a novel anticancer agent. Because the kinases that CGP41251 inhibits play important roles in T lymphocyte activation, we hypothesized that this compound may have useful immunomodulatory properties. Here we characterized the in vitro immunomodulatory effects of CGP41251. The effects of CGP41251 on lymphocyte proliferation, expression of T cell activation surface markers, and intracellular calcium response in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC's) were measured. Intracellular IL-2, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma expression in CGP41251-treated T cells stimulated by lectin was measured by flow cytometry. CGP41251 inhibited lectin-induced lymphocyte proliferation and upregulation of activation surface markers with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 0.1 microM. CGP41251, at micromolar concentrations, blunted the intracellular calcium response during PBMC activation. CGP41251 inhibited TNF-alpha production by T cells with an IC(50) of 0.5 microM and did not significantly inhibit the production of IL-2 or IFN-gamma. In conclusion, CGP41251 potently inhibits T lymphocyte activation and function and interferes with the proximal part of the T cell activation pathway. The ability of CGP41251 to selectively block T cell TNF-alpha production warrants the evaluation of this compound on other, e.g., monocyte, immune cells and in immunological conditions that are characterized by high TNF-alpha levels such as psoriasis and inflammatory bowel diseases.
Selective depletion of glycyrrhizin from Si-Ni-San, a traditional Chinese prescription, blocks its effect on contact sensitivity in mice and recovers adhesion and metalloproteinases production of T lymphocytes.	In the present study, we performed to selectively deplete glycyrrhizin from Si-Ni-San, a traditional Chinese prescription that consists of 4 Chinese herbs including Radix Glycyrrhizae Uralensis, and examined its influence on the suppressing activity of Si-Ni-San against contact sensitivity in mice. An immunoaffinity column was made by covalently coupling the polyclonal antibody, obtained by the immunization with glycyrrhizin-BSA conjugate, to CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B. By using this column, glycyrrhizin in Si-Ni-San was selectively and almost completely depleted from the whole extract, which was confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Both 200 mg/kg of Si-Ni-San and 10 mg/kg of glycyrrhizin, the dose corresponding to its proportion contained in Si-Ni-San, significantly reduced the ear swelling of picryl chloride (PCl)-induced ear contact sensitivity in mice and the inhibition by Si-Ni-San was stronger than that by glycyrrhizin. The adhesion activity to type IV collagen of the isolated spleen cells from PCl-sensitized mice was significantly decreased by both Si-Ni-San and glycyrrhizin. However, the glycyrrhizin-depleted sample of Si-Ni-San (Si-Ni-San(GL-)) only showed a slight inhibition on the cell adhesion. Furthermore, the spleen cells from PCl-sensitized mice produced more matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 than naive spleen cells did, and both Si-Ni-San and glycyrrhizin remarkably reduced MMP-2 and MMP-9 production. In contrast, Si-Ni-San(GL-) only showed a slight inhibition. These results suggest that glycyrrhizin may act as one of the active constituents of Si-Ni-San in inhibiting delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction via down-regulating the MMP production and the cell adhesion to extracellular matrix. The present study also provides a new approach to recognize and validate an active constituent in traditional prescription through a selective depletion.
Cyclosporin a affects signaling events differentially in human gingival fibroblasts.	Gingival overgrowth is a common side-effect of the administration of cyclosporin A (CSA), phenytoin, and calcium blockers. To identify the signaling mechanisms possibly involved in the overgrowth, we examined how CSA affects the activities of MAP kinases and transcription factors in human gingival fibroblasts (HGF). The HGF were treated with CSA and TNF-alpha or PDGF. DNA-binding activity of NFAT, NFkappaB, and AP-1 transcription factors was determined by gel shift assay, and JNK, p38, and ERK1 and ERK2 activation was assessed by Western blot analysis of immunoprecipitates. The CSA inhibited NFAT, NFkappaB, and p38 and JNK activities; however, ERK1 and ERK2 were not affected significantly. AP-1 activity increased approximately 4.5-fold. Our results indicate that CSA affects signaling molecules in HGF differently from other cell types, and that a CSA-induced increase in AP-1 activity may affect the expression of fibrogenic molecules in gingiva and promote gingival overgrowth.
Volatile anesthetics induce caspase-dependent, mitochondria-mediated apoptosis in human T lymphocytes in vitro.	Volatile anesthetics modulate lymphocyte function during surgery, and this compromises postoperative immune competence. The current work was undertaken to examine whether volatile anesthetics induce apoptosis in human T lymphocytes and what apoptotic signaling pathway might be used.
Synthetic iminosugar derivatives as new potential immunosuppressive agents.	Several iminosugar derivatives were synthesized, and their effects on the secretion of IL-4 and IFN-gamma from the mouse splenocytes were examined. The effects on membrane expression of other T cell-associated molecules (CD3, CD4, CD8) and B cell-associated molecules (CD19) were also investigated. The experimental data demonstrated that synthetic iminosugars hold potential as immunosuppressive agents.
Inhibition of CREB transcriptional activity in human T lymphocytes by oxidative stress.	Hydrogen peroxide (HP) induced the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) on Ser133 in Jurkat T lymphocytes via p38 and MSK1. Although CREB Ser133 was phosphorylated, increases in HP-stimulated CREB-mediated transcription were absent. T lymphocyte stimulation with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 induced CREB Ser133 phosphorylation, as well as CREB-mediated transcriptional activity. When CD3/CD28-stimulated lymphocytes were treated with HP, Ser133 was phosphorylated, but TCR-induced CREB-mediated transcriptional activity was reduced. These data provide insight into a potential mechanism by which oxidative stress can alter T cell receptor-induced CREB activation and responsiveness.
The novel immunosuppressant FK778 inhibits formation of the immunologic Synapse.	The malononitrilamide FK778 is a derivative of A77 1726, the active metabolite of the antirheumatic drug leflunomide. A77 1726 inhibits de novo pyrimidine synthesis and activity of Src-family kinases; thus, it may interfere with T-cell proliferation as well as with early T-cell signaling. Formation of a stable interaction between T cells and antigen-presenting cells (APC)--the immunologic synapse--has emerged to be of crucial importance for T-cell activation. Here in we show that FK778 inhibits formation of the immunologic synapse by blocking superantigen-stimulated relocalization of adhesion (LFA-1), and signaling molecules (CD3) to the T-cell/APC contact site. These data show that FK778 affects T-cell/APC interactions, particularly events crucial for T-cell adhesion and formation of stable conjugates underlying sustained and effective T-cell activation. Thus, in this model system close to physiologic T-cell stimulation, FK778 affects critical events in the course of T-cell-mediated immune responses earlier than T-cell proliferation, which may contribute to its immunosuppressive potential.
Antitumor activity and underlying mechanisms of ganopoly, the refined polysaccharides extracted from Ganoderma lucidum, in mice.	Ganopoly is an aqueous polysaccharide fraction extracted from G. lucidum by patented biochemical technique and has been marketed as an over-the-counter product for chronic diseases including cancer and hepatopathy in many Asian countries. This study was undertaken to explore the anti-tumour effect and the underlying mechanisms of Ganopoly in mice and human tumor cell lines. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Ganopoly in mice was estimated to be 100 mg/kg from a pilot study. Treatment of mice with oral Ganopoly for 10 days significantly reduced the tumour weight of sarcoma-180 in a dose-dependent manner, with inhibition rates of 32.3, 48.2 and 84.9% and growth delays of 1.5, 3.5, and 13.1 days at 20, 50, and 100 mg/kg, respectively. Incubation of Ganopoly at 0.05-1.0 mg/ml for 48 hours showed little or negligible cytotoxicity against human tumor CaSki, SiHa, Hep3B, HepG2, HCT116 HT29, and MCF7 cells in vitro. In contrast, 10 mg/ml of Ganopoly caused significant cytotoxicity in all tumour cells tested except MCF7, with marked apoptotic effect observed in CaSki, HepG2, and HCT116 cells, as indicated by nuclear staining and DNA fragmentation. In addition, Ganopoly enhanced concanavalin A-stimulated proliferation of murine splenocytes by 35.3% at 10 mg/ml, and stimulated the production of nitric oxide in thioglycollate-primed murine peritoneal macrophages in a concentration-dependent manner over 0.05-10 mg/ml. Addition of Ganopoly at 1 mg/ ml to murine peritoneal macrophages also potentiated lipopolysaccharide-induced nitric oxide production by 64.2%. Treatment of healthy mice or mice bearing sarsoma-180 with oral Ganopoly over 20-100 mg/kg for 7 day significantly increased the expression of both TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma (at both mRNA and protein levels) in splenocytes in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, treatment of Ganopoly over 20-100 mg/kg significantly increased cytotoxic T lymphocyte cytotoxicity and NK activity in mice. The overall findings indicated that Ganopoly had antitumor activity with a broad spectrum of immuno-modulating activities and may represent a novel promising immunotherapeutic agent in cancer treatment.
Sesquiterpenoids from Saussurea laniceps.	Two new guaiane-type sesquiterpenoids (1 and 2) and one new eudesmane-type sesquiterpenoid (3) were isolated from Saussurea laniceps. The structures of these compounds were established by spectroscopic methods, and the absolute stereochemistry of compounds 1 and 2 was determined by Mosher's method. The immunomodulatory activities of compounds 1-3 were evaluated. Of these, compound 3 showed significant inhibition of the proliferation of murine T and B cells in vitro.
Immunotherapy of ovarian cancer. II. In vitro generation and characterization of lymphokine-activated killer T cells from the peripheral blood of recurrent ovarian cancer patients.	We examined the in vitro sensitivity of continuous ovarian cancer cells to lymphokine-activated killer T cells (T-LAK) alone or in combination with cytokines. Lymphocyte viability in T-LAK cultures generated from normal donors and ovarian cancer patients declined in the first 2 to 4 days; however, the remaining cells in these cultures maintained a constant rate of proliferation for long periods in vitro. These cells became 90-95% CD3+ TCR+ -alpha/beta T-cells after 7-10 days in culture. The T-LAK cells from normal donors and cancer patients expressed an equal ability to induce lysis of a panel of human target cells (NK-sensitive K562, NK-insensitive RAJI, and two human ovarian tumor lines, SKOV-3 and OVCAR-3), demonstrating that they are nongenetically restricted killers. Preincubation of either the effector or target cells with tumor necrosis factor or interferon-gamma or addition of these cytokines directly to cytolytic assays did not alter the degree of cell lysis in vitro. This is a method for generating large numbers of autologous, cytolytically active T-LAK cells from the blood of ovarian cancer patients that could be employed in adoptive intraperitoneal immunotherapy.
Increased circulating T cell reactivity to GM1 ganglioside in patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome.	This study was performed to determine whether increased ganglioside-specific T cell reactivity can be detected in the peripheral blood of patients with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP). T cell responsiveness to the gangliosides GM1, GM3, GD1a, GD1b, GD3, GT1b, GQ1b and sulphatide was assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from untreated GBS patients (57), CIDP patients (43), patients with other peripheral neuropathies (55) and healthy control subjects (74) in a standard 6-day proliferation assay. Increased T cell reactivity to GM1 occurred in GBS patients compared to healthy controls and patients with other neuropathies. There was increased reactivity to GM3 in GBS patients compared to patients with other neuropathies but not compared to healthy controls. The frequencies of increased T cell reactivity to GM1 and GM3 in CIDP patients were intermediate between those of GBS patients and controls. We suggest that T cell reactivity to gangliosides might play a contributory role in the pathogenesis of GBS and perhaps CIDP.
Expression of cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA) in tonsillar T-cells and its induction by in vitro stimulation with alpha-streptococci in patients with pustulosis palmaris et plantaris (PPP).	Pustulosis palmaris et plantaris (PPP) is known to be a one of the tonsil-related diseases because tonsillectomy is quite effective in curing this condition. However etiological association between tonsils and PPP have not fully clarified yet. Cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA) is known to be a specific homing receptor that facilitates T-cell migration into skin. In this study, we investigated the expression of CLA on T-cells in tonsil, peripheral blood, and skin from patients with PPP. Two-color flow cytometric and two-color immunohistological analyses revealed that the numbers of CLA/CD3 double-positive cells in freshly isolated tonsillar mononuclear cells (TMC) and in tonsillar tissues were significantly higher in patients with PPP than in patients without PPP (P<0.01, each). In vitro stimulus with alpha-streptococcal antigens enhanced CLA expression of tonsillar T-cells and TGF-beta production of TMC in patients with PPP (P<0.01, each), but did not in patients without PPP. In peripheral blood from PPP patients, the number of the CLA/CD3 double-positive cells significantly decreased at 6 months after tonsillectomy (P<0.05). The CLA/CD3 double-positive cells and the postcapillary venule that expressed with a ligand of CLA, E-selectin, were found more frequently in the plantar skin from patients with PPP as compared to that from healthy volunteers (P<0.01, each). These data suggest that a novel immune response to alpha-streptococci may enhance CLA expression on tonsillar T-cells through TGF-beta production in patients with PPP, resulting in moving of CLA-positive tonsillar T-cells to skin and tissue damages. This may play a key role in pathogenesis of PPP.
Andrographolide inhibits IFN-gamma and IL-2 cytokine production and protects against cell apoptosis.	Andrographolide is the main labdane diterpene present in Andrographis paniculata. Two lines of evidence report immunostimulant and anti-inflammatory properties for andrographolide in different models. Using murine T-cells in vitro we demonstrated that andrographolide and to a lesser extent, 14-deoxyandrographolide (14-DAP), reduced significantly, in a dose-dependent manner, the IFN-gamma production induced by concanavaline A (CON-A), with an IC50 of 1.7 +/- 0.07 microM and 35.8 +/- 0.50 microM, respectively. Andrographolide, but not 14-DAP, inhibited partially the IL-2 production induced by CON-A. Andrographolide at doses of 5 and 10 microM reduced the extracellular-signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) phosphorylation induced by CON-A, whereas 14-DAP only reduced ERK1 and partially the ERK2 phosphorylation. The inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation was associated to a decrease in the IFN-gamma production, due that UO126, a specific ERK1/2 inhibitor, also reduced the IFN-gamma production in murine T-cells induced by CON-A. Additionally, andrographolide and to a lesser extent 14-DAP, at doses of 50 microM and 100 microM, respectively, reduced the apoptosis induced by hydrocortisone and PMA in thymocytes, which was associated to a decrease in caspase-3 like activity. We conclude that both diterpenic labdanes isolated from A. paniculata can exert potent immunosuppressant effects without affecting the viability of the cells.
Effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin on blood and spleen natural killer (NK) cell activity in the mouse.	The immunotoxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) were studied in male A/J mice after a loading dose of 5 micrograms TCDD/kg body wt. followed by 3 weekly maintenance doses of 1.42 micrograms TCDD/kg b.w. administered intraperitoneally. Tissue samples and immune cells were prepared on two occasions, i.e. on days 28 and 120 after the first injection of TCDD. This dose of TCDD evoked classical histological signs of liver damage and lipid accumulation, as well as thymic atrophy. Red (RBC) blood cell counts were significantly lowered in the TCDD group on day 28, but were normal on day 120. White (WBC) blood cell counts were normal in the TCDD group. Natural killer (NK) cell activity increased 3.4-fold (P less than 0.01) and 2.2-fold (P less than 0.01) in the blood and spleen, respectively, after 28 days, and these effects persisted on day 120. The increased NK-cell activity occurred concomitantly with a decreased proliferative response of spleen lymphocytes to the T-cell mitogen concanavalin A after both 28 (65%) and 120 days (58%). The proliferative response of spleen cells to the B-cell mitogen lipopolysaccharide seemed, however, unaffected. We have thus shown for the first time that TCDD induces an increased activity of NK cells that occurs simultaneously in the blood and spleen. This effect may indicate a general compensatory activation of the body's defences brought about by disturbances in the function of other arms of the immune system.
T-cell-dependent popliteal lymph node reactions to platinum compounds in mice.	The requirements for sensitization to complex salts of platinum were investigated in a mouse model by means of the popliteal lymph node (PLN) assay. A single subcutaneous injection of dissolved hexachloroplatinates without adjuvant induced a vigorous primary immune reaction in the draining PLN. Dose-dependent lymph node activation was determined by an increase in both PLN weight and cellularity. In C57BL/6 mice, peak reactions were obtained around day 6 after administration of 90-180 nmol Na2[PtCl6] or (NH4)2[PtCl6] per animal. Mice primed to [PtCl6]2- mounted an enhanced response upon local restimulation with suboptimal doses of the same but not unrelated compounds, indicating a specific secondary response. T cells were required to elicit PLN reactions to [PtCl6]2-, because athymic nude mice completely failed to respond, in contrast to their +/nu littermates. Differences between various inbred strains of mice revealed that Pt-induced PLN responses are genetically controlled. Moreover, the immunogenicity of Pt salts in mice is not confined to hexachloroplatinates, but other compounds, such as the antineoplastic agent cis-dichlorodiamine platinum, are able to induce comparable PLN reactions.
Induction of immune rejection of tumors by protein A in mice bearing transplantable solid tissue Dalton's lymphoma tumors.	In a transplantable solid tissue Dalton's lymphoma tumor model in mice we have studied the mode of antitumor action of protein A, a well known biological response modifier. Protein A (15 ug) was administered intravenously in normal and solid tissue Dalton's lymphoma tumor bearing mice on day 3 and 7 after tumor inoculation. Incidence of mortality was more in untreated tumor bearing group than that in PA treated tumor bearers. There was a significant decrease (p less than 0.001) in tumor diameter in PA treated group compared to untreated group. Protein A treatment significantly enhanced the delayed type hypersensitivity (p less than 0.01), T-cell number in spleens (p less than 0.001) and lymph nodes (p less than 0.05) as well as phagocytosis (p less than 0.001) of opsonized SRBC by peritoneal macrophages of tumor bearing animals. Apart from the nonspecific immunopotentiation, Protein A also activates natural Killer (NK) cell activity and also splenic lymphocytes mediated killing of autologous tumor targets in a significant (p less than 0.001) manner. These results suggest that PA treatment activates cellular arc of the immune system in general, and macrophage, T cells and NK cells specifically. In the present communication, we have attempted to provide the information that these immune activations appear to be related to antitumor response induced by Protein A.
Mitogenic effect of zinc on lymphocytes from strains of mice that are either high or low-responder to T-cell mitogens.	We have studied the in vitro mitogenic effect of ZnCl2 in cultures of lymphocytes from Balb/c or C57BL/6 mice which are high-responder or low-responder to T-cell mitogens respectively. Zn induced proliferation of spleen cells from Balb/c mice cultured without 2-ME. Higher levels of proliferation were observed in cultures with 2-ME. In contrast, Zn only induced proliferation of spleen cells from C57BL/6 mice in the presence of 2-ME. No response to Zn was observed in cultures without 2-ME, of spleen cells from either Balb/c or C57BL/6 mice depleted of plastic adherent cells. However, in cultures with 2-ME, Zn induced proliferation of non-adherent as well as plastic adherent cells from either strain of mice. In cultures without 2-ME, Zn induced proliferation of thymocytes from Balb/c mice, whereas did not show constant mitogenic effect on thymocytes from C57BL/6 mice. In contrast, Zn determined higher levels of proliferation of thymocytes from either strain of mice when cultured with 2-ME. Zn had earlier and stronger mitogenic effect on mature thymocytes of either strain of mice than in total thymocytes, both in cultures with or without 2-ME. However, Zn did not induced proliferation in cultures of immature thymocytes of either strain of mice.
A nonpromoting phorbol from the samoan medicinal plant Homalanthus nutans inhibits cell killing by HIV-1.	Extracts of Homalanthus nutans, a plant used in Samoan herbal medicine, exhibited potent activity in an in vitro, tetrazolium-based assay which detects the inhibition of the cytopathic effects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1). The active constituent was identified as prostratin, a relatively polar 12-deoxyphorbol ester. Noncytotoxic concentrations of prostratin from greater than or equal to 0.1 to greater than 25 microM protected T-lymphoblastoid CEM-SS and C-8166 cells from the killing effects of HIV-1. Cytoprotective concentrations of prostratin greater than or equal to 1 microM essentially stopped virus reproduction in these cell lines, as well as in the human monocytic cell line U937 and in freshly isolated human monocyte/macrophage cultures. Prostratin bound to and activated protein kinase C in vitro in CEM-SS cells and elicited other biochemical effects typical of phorbol esters in C3H10T1/2 cells; however, the compound does not appear to be a tumor promoter. In skin of CD-1 mice, high doses of prostratin induced ornithine decarboxylase only to 25-30% of the levels induced by typical phorbol esters at doses 1/30 or less than that used for prostratin, produced kinetics of edema formation characteristic of the nonpromoting 12-deoxyphorbol 13-phenylacetate, and failed to induce the acute or chronic hyperplasias typically caused by tumor-promoting phorbols at doses of 1/100 or less than that used for prostratin.
Effects of changes in membrane potential on the cyclosporin-induced inhibition of T-cell proliferation.	Cyclosporin A (CsA) exerts its major immunosuppressive effect by inhibition of T-lymphocyte proliferation. The precise mechanism and target of its action has not yet been completely identified. CsA is also known to induce a rapid membrane depolarization in T lymphocytes. We have tested the role of CsA-dependent depolarization in the inhibition of T-cell proliferation by the drug. In these studies, induced membrane depolarization (in the presence of gramicidin or by replacing the Na+ content of the medium with K+) or hyperpolarization (in the presence of valinomycin) had no influence on the induction of T-cell competence by phorbol dibutyrate/ionomycin or by submitogenic concentrations of PHA, a target for CsA immunosuppression. However, regardless of the state of membrane potential during the induction of T-cell competence, the inhibition by CsA was the same as seen in normally polarized cells. We conclude that the depolarization induced by CsA is not a critical element in its inhibitory effect on T-cell proliferation.
Immunomodulatory effects of transforming growth factor-beta on T lymphocytes. Induction of CD8 expression in the CTLL-2 cell line and in normal thymocytes.	We investigated the role of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta) in regulation of T cell growth and differentiation. Treatment of CTLL-2 cells with TGF-beta inhibited IL-2-dependent proliferation and caused morphologic changes as well as increased adherence. A major change of phenotype in TGF-beta-treated cells was the de novo expression of CD8 alpha chain in 35% of cells, which required the continuous presence of TGF-beta. Of the CD8 alpha+ cells, 20 to 30% co-expressed CD8 beta chain. Increased CD8 expression occurred even in the total absence of cell growth, was not a consequence of growth inhibition, and was not a result of selective growth or survival of CD8+ cells. New RNA synthesis was required for TGF beta-induced CD8 alpha surface expression, inasmuch as this was prevented by treatment with actinomycin D. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that cells treated with IL-2 + TGF-beta rapidly accumulated mRNA encoding both chains of the CD8 dimer, to a level fourfold greater than control by 6 to 12 h. In contrast, the IL-2-dependent increases in IL-2R alpha, IL-2R beta, and Granzyme B mRNA levels in these cultures were profoundly inhibited by TGF-beta. When unfractionated murine thymocytes were stimulated with phorbol dibutyrate plus ionomycin and cultured with IL-2 + TGF-beta, an increase in CD8 alpha mRNA was seen and greater numbers of CD8+ cells with higher levels of CD8 alpha and CD8 beta surface expression resulted, as compared to controls treated with IL-2 alone. Furthermore, similar treatment of CD4-CD8-(double negative) thymocytes with TGF-beta induced de novo CD8 alpha expression by a substantial number of cells, and the majority of these CD8+ cells lacked TCR/CD3. These data suggest that TGF-beta has both positive and negative regulatory effects on the expression of gene products important for T lymphocyte differentiation and function.
In vivo cocaine administration influences lymphokine production and humoral immune response.	The effect of in vivo cocaine administration on in vitro mitogen-induced lymphokine production was examined. Splenocyte cultures from BALB/c mice treated with an acute (1 mg/kg) or daily cocaine administration (1 mg/kg/day for 7 consecutive days) were less responsive to induction of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and IL-4 production by mitogen stimuli. We also evaluated the humoral immune response to both a T-dependent (HEL) and a T-independent antigen (rHBcAg). It was found that cocaine inhibits T-dependent antibody production only. This inhibition was greatest when cocaine was given during immunization. The results suggest that T-cell-mediated responses may be more affected by cocaine use/abuse.
Glucocorticoids activate a suicide program in mature T lymphocytes: protective action of interleukin-2.	Viability of T cell blasts obtained by concanavalin A stimulation of mouse spleen cells markedly decreases when these cells are exposed to glucocorticoid hormones in the absence of interleukin-2. The mechanism underlying the lysis of the mature lymphocytes seems to correspond to the apoptotic type of cell death inasmuch as an early degradation of DNA into oligonucleosome-length fragments is observed. Moreover, glucocorticoid-induced DNA fragmentation is delayed in the presence of an inhibitor of protein synthesis. Induction of the cell death program by glucocorticoids is most likely mediated through the interaction with a specific glucocorticoid receptor as suggested by the structure-activity relationship of the various steroids tested. Interestingly, the presence of a saturating dose of IL-2 during the treatment of concanavalin A blasts with glucocorticoids totally abolished DNA fragmentation and cell lysis.
Effect of Chinese tea extract on the immune function of mice bearing tumor and their antitumor activity]	The dynamic changes of cellular immune function and antitumor effect of GTE (green tea extract) in the BALB/c mice bearing EAC, HAC and S-180 tumor were investigated. Results showed that intraperitoneal injection GTE daily dose of 80mg/kg stimulate the proliferation of T-Lymphocyte S-180 tumor bearing mice, the 125-IudR incorporation value (cpm) of control group was 932 and that of GTE treated group increased to 2988. The Natural Killer cell's activity (cpm) of treated group was raised from 10.7% of control group to 41%. Daily dose 50mg/kg inhibited the EAC, HAC and the life span of GTE mice bearing EAC ascites tumor prolonged 128%. The GTE were effective on growth activity against mouse Ehrlich tumor at a dose of 500mg/kg by oral administration (P less than 0.05), the inhibition ratio being about 32%. The authors suggested the mechanism of antitumor effects of GTE possible included both cellular immune function and the inhibition of tumor growth.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin-activated spleen cells passively transfer diabetes in BB/Wor rat.	BB/Wor rats develop spontaneous autoimmune diabetes similar to human insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. A T-cell-mediated pathogenesis for BB/Wor diabetes is indicated because disease is prevented by neonatal or adult thymectomy and treatment of diabetes-prone rats with monoclonal antibodies directed against CD5 or CD8 T-cell surface markers. Disease can be adoptively transferred with injections of concanavalin A-activated spleen cells from either acutely diabetic or RT6.1 T-cell-depleted diabetes-resistant BB/Wor rats. We used microbial superantigens to stimulate spleen cells from RT6.1 T-cell-depleted diabetes-resistant rats and demonstrated that such cells activated with staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEs) can also transfer diabetes. The diabetogenic effector T cells are readily activated by SEA, SEC3, and SEE, whereas SEB- and SEC2-activated cells are far less effective in the adoptive transfer of diabetes. These results demonstrate that microbial superantigens are capable of activating self-reactive and diabetes-inducing T cells in vitro in the BB/Wor rat. Ubiquitous microorganisms may be the environmental trigger for autoimmunity in susceptible individuals.
CD4 and CD8 regulate interleukin 2 responses of T cells.	To characterize the T-cell surface molecules involved in regulation of T-cell interleukin 2 (IL-2) responses, we established several monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that inhibit IL-2 responses of freshly isolated CD8+ T cells and the IL-2-dependent cell line CTLL-2. Here we show that two inhibitory mAbs are directed against Lyt-2 (CD8 alpha). In fact, all anti-Lyt-2 mAbs tested were able to inhibit the IL-2 response of the Lyt-2- and L3T4-deficient cell line HT-2 after transfection with a Lyt-2 cDNA clone. Similarly, anti-L3T4 mAbs inhibited the IL-2 response of CD4-transfected HT-2 cells. These inhibitory effects of anti-CD4 and anti-CD8 mAbs occur on normal T lymphocytes, since they also were observed with CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell blasts, and are specific for IL-2 responses, since IL-4 responses of CD4- and CD8-transfected HT-2 cells were not affected by the anti-CD4 and anti-CD8 mAbs. The inhibitory effects of anti-CD4 or anti-CD8 mAbs could not be explained by interference with IL-2 binding and depended on CD4 and CD8 crosslinking, because F(ab')2 or Fab plus crosslinking second antibody, but not Fab alone, were effective. A mutant Lyt-2 molecule lacking the cytoplasmic region that mediates p56lck binding could not mediate the inhibitory effect upon crosslinking. These results suggest that CD4 and CD8 mediate negative regulation of T-cell IL-2 responses via cytoplasmically associated p56lck.
The immunoregulatory effects of merocyanine 540 on in vitro human T- and B-lymphocyte functions.	Merocyanine 540 (MC 540) is a photoactive dye used to purge bone marrow of tumor cells in autologous bone marrow transplantation. The effects of MC 540 on the lymphoid components in the marrow are unknown. This study evaluates the treatment of lymphocytes by MC 540 (15 micrograms/mL) and light (70 W/m2) on: (1) phytohemagglutinin and Con A-induced proliferation; (2) allogeneic mixed lymphocyte cultures (MLC); (3) the regulation of Ig synthesis by T cells; and (4) the ability of B cells to produce polyclonal Igs as measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay-plaque assay. The results show that MC 540 and light treatment reduced Con A-stimulated T-cell proliferation greater than 50% after 30 minutes and greater than 80% after 60 minutes of MC 540-sensitized photoirradiation. Ninety minutes of MC 540 and light exposure (designated treatment) inhibited MLC greater than 90%. In polyclonal Ig synthesis, T-cell helper activity could be abrogated by 90 minutes of treatment in cocultures containing untreated B cells. Purified B cells treated for 90 minutes cocultured with normal T cells did not produce Ig. Treatment of B cells completely inhibited Epstein-Barr virus-stimulated Ig synthesis. These data show that T- and B-cell immunity is suppressed by the MC 540-sensitized photoirradiation. Treatment of bone marrow with MC 540 and light may have profound effects on immune reconstitution in autologous marrow graft recipients. More provocative is the fact that the same immunomodulatory effects may be applicable to partially mismatched marrow transplant situations as a means of reducing graft-versus-host reactions.
Activation of thymocyte deoxyribonucleic acid degradation by endogenous glucocorticoids.	Immature lymphocytes in the thymus gland are killed by treatment with exogenous glucocorticoids. This steroid-mediated lymphocytolysis is preceded by numerous alterations in lymphocyte metabolism, including a DNA-degrading process in which the genome is cleaved at internucleosomal intervals. To date, this process has only been characterized by treating lymphocytes in vitro with glucocorticoids or by exogenous treatment of whole animals with adrenal steroids. To determine whether thymocyte DNA degradation could be activated by endogenous glucocorticoids, 4-wk-old chicks were treated with porcine adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). This procedure elevated serum corticosterone levels approximately 80-fold within 2 h of hormone treatment. Following ACTH administration, thymocyte DNA was isolated and analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. The ACTH activated a DNA-degrading process that generated internucleosomal fragments of DNA identical in size to those observed following exogenous treatment with synthetic or naturally occurring glucocorticoids. Furthermore, this response could be inhibited by the glucocorticoid antagonist RU486 (17 beta-hydroxy-11 beta, 4-dimethylaminophenyl-17 alpha-propynl-estra-4,9,diene-3-one), indicating that adrenal steroids activate this process via the glucocorticoid receptor. These results demonstrate that lymphocyte DNA degradation does not result solely from exogenous glucocorticoid treatment; moreover, endogenous glucocorticoids can mediate this process and may thereby play an important role in thymic gland function.
The effect of the CD28 activation pathway on the immunosuppressive action of cyclosporine.	The effect of the CD28 activation pathway on the immunosuppressive action of CsA was assessed. Human peripheral blood lymphocytes were stimulated with anti-CD3, bryostatin (Bryo) a novel activator of protein kinase C (PKC) and anti-CD28 singly or in combination, to which graded doses of CsA were added to determine relative sensitivity. Proliferation, IL-2 production, and IL-2 receptor expression were assessed and the IC50 determined. Lymphocytes stimulated with Bryo exhibited a marginal proliferative response but expressed the IL-2 receptor despite the presence of CsA. Addition of anti-CD3 or anti-CD28 to Bryo-stimulated lymphocytes promoted a vigorous proliferative response. CsA effectively inhibited the proliferative response and IL-2 production induced with anti-CD3 and Bryo but did not inhibit the response of cells stimulated with anti-CD28 and Bryo. However, II-2 receptor expression in both sets of cultures were comparable due to the induction of IL-2 receptor by Bryo and was not inhibited by CsA. Costimulation of lymphocytes with anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 resulted in a 2-3-fold enhancement of proliferation compared with lymphocytes stimulated with anti-CD3 alone. Addition of CsA to lymphocytes stimulated with anti-CD3 resulted in the dose-dependent suppression of the proliferative response and IL-2 production (IC50 = 10-25 nM) but less so for IL-2 receptor expression (IC50 = 100-150 nM). In comparison, the proliferative response and IL-2 production elicited by anti-CD3 + anti-CD28 was more resistant to the effects of CsA (IC50 = 100-200 nM). However, IL-2 receptor expression exhibited comparable sensitivity to CsA (IC50 = 100-200 nM) in the presence of anti-CD28. Combination drug:drug studies revealed that CsA and the protein kinase C inhibitor H-7 were additive for both anti-CD3 and anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 response. On the other hand, the cGMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor H-8 was synergistic with CsA in inhibiting the response of lymphocytes to anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 but only additive for responses to anti-CD3. Taken together, these data suggest that CsA inhibits T cell activation at two distinct levels, leading to inhibition of IL-2 production and inhibition of IL-2 receptor expression. Activation of the CD28 pathway partially overcomes the inhibitory activity of CsA on IL-2 production and may be mediated by indirect activation of a cGMP-dependent protein kinase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effect of morphine and DAGO on the proliferative response of murine splenocytes.	Morphine added in vitro to BALB/c mouse spleen cells inhibits mitogen responses. Naloxone and naltrexone, but not nor-BNI, antagonize the effect of morphine, suggesting that the kappa opioid receptor is not involved in in vitro immunomodulation of mitogen responses by morphine.
Quantitation of T cell depletion by limiting dilution analysis.	We evaluated a culture method for enumeration of residual T cells remaining in marrow after treatment with antibody and complement or with immunotoxin.
Platelet-derived growth factor is a potent biologic response modifier of T cells.	Freshly isolated lymph node (LN) cells cultured in serum-containing medium were restricted to produce primarily interleukin 2 (IL-2) subsequent to T cell activation. Only minimal amounts of IL-4, IL-5, or interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) were produced under these conditions. Similar populations of LN cells cultured in serum-free medium were able to produce a variety of lymphokines after T cell activation, with the relative quantities of each species being dependent upon the lymphoid organ source of the lymphocytes. A similar relationship in the patterns of lymphokines produced by activated T cell hybridomas maintained under serum-free conditions was also observed, whereas activation in serum-supplemented media resulted in a predominant restriction to the secretion of IL-2. Additional studies determined that the entity in serum responsible for restricting T cell function in vitro was platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). The PDGF-BB isoform was established to be the most active in the regulation of T cell function, enhancing IL-2 while depressing the production of IL-4, IL-5, and IFN-gamma at concentrations below 1 ng/ml. PDGF-AB was also found to be quite active, however, this isoform of PDGF was incapable of influencing IFN-gamma production at the concentrations tested. PDGF-AA was very weakly active. It therefore appears that PDGF, acting primarily through a beta receptor subunit (either alpha/beta- or beta/beta-type receptors) is able to influence profoundly the behavior of T cells, with some of its modulatory effects exhibiting isoform specificity. This is reflected by an enhancement in the production of IL-2, while simultaneously depressing the secretion of IL-4, IL-5, and IFN-gamma (PDGF-BB only) after T cell activation. Kinetic studies, where cell supernatants were analyzed both 24 and 48 h after T cell activation, suggested that "desensitization" to PDGF influences can occur naturally in vitro. Those species of lymphokines that were inhibited by PDGF over the first 24 h after activation could be produced at normal levels over the subsequent 24-h period. Finally, lymphokines maintained in the presence of PDGF-BB for greater than 24 h before their activation lost sensitivity to this growth factor. These cells regained responsiveness to PDGF after an additional incubation period in PDGF-free medium. Collectively, our data imply that the pattern of T cell lymphokines produced, plus the kinetics of their production after activation, are being controlled by the potent serum growth factor PDGF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Accessory receptors regulate coupling of the T-cell receptor complex to tyrosine kinase activation and mobilization of cytoplasmic calcium in T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells have abundant cytoplasmic CD3/Ti but express low amounts on the cell surface and are deficient in CD3/Ti-mediated signal transduction. Nevertheless, plating T-ALL cells on dishes containing immobilized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies with a source of growth factors induced the expression of CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain) and stimulated the formation of blast colonies in 12 of 14 cases studied. The proliferative response to CD3 ligation was modulated by the presence of antibodies to the CD2, CD4, or CD8 accessory T-cell receptors. The effect of these accessory receptors on signal transduction mediated by CD3/Ti was next investigated by monitoring cytoplasmic calcium concentration [( Ca2+]i) and by measuring tyrosine phosphorylation after stimulation. Crosslinking CD3, CD2, CD4, or CD8 alone did not induce cytoplasmic calcium mobilization in T-ALLs, but crosslinking the accessory receptors with CD3/Ti induced calcium responses in three of the T-ALLs and enhanced calcium responses in three of the T-ALL cell lines, including HPB-ALL, MOLT-4, and CEM. Crosslinking CD4 but not CD2 with CD3/Ti greatly enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple substrates in comparison with crosslinking either CD4 or CD3/Ti separately on both normal mature T cells and the CEM T-ALL cell line. Thus, CD4 regulates CD3/Ti signal transduction in T-ALL cells through the tyrosine phosphorylation of substrates whereas CD2 may regulate [Ca2+]i signal transduction through a separate mechanism.
Evidence that cyclosporine treatment causes the appearance in rat lymph node of T cells having the antigenic phenotypes of cortical thymocytes.	The antigenic phenotypes and relative size distributions of thymocytes and LN cells from young adult M520 strain rats, injected s.c. with cyclosporine (15 mgm/kg) for 10 consecutive days, were determined by FACS analysis and fluorescence microscopy. In addition, the prothymocyte activity in BM from these CsA-treated rats was assayed by i.v. adoptive transfer into sublethally irradiated, but non-CsA-treated, BUF strain recipients. The results showed that short-term CsA treatment causes a selective and almost complete depletion of both the CD4+8- and CD4-8+ subsets of medullary thymocytes, but that this effect is unrelated to any apparent influence of CsA on the proliferative or developmental potential of prothymocytes in the BM of the treated animals. The results also demonstrated that, early in the course of CsA treatment, there is a marked accumulation of LN T cells that display the antigenic phenotypes and size distribution of cortical thymocytes. Approximately 67% of these T cells had a CD4+8+ TdT+ Thy 1+ phenotype; 17% had a CD4-8+ TdT+ Thy 1+ phenotype. These "immature" lymph node T cells expressed the RT7 pan-T cell alloantigen, but lacked the RT6 postthymic T cell subset alloantigen. All were sIg-. In aggregate they were approximately 30% of the total CsA-LN T cells, as compared with fewer than 3% in controls.
Low-dose cyclophosphamide modulates galectin-1 expression and function in an experimental rat lymphoma model.	In recent years, one of the most important insights into tumor immunity was provided by the identification of negative regulatory pathways and immune escape strategies that greatly influence the magnitude of antitumor responses. Galectin-1 (Gal-1), a member of a family of highly conserved beta-galactoside-binding proteins, has been recently shown to contribute to tumor cell evasion of immune responses by modulating survival and differentiation of effector T cells. However, there is still scarce information about the regulation of Gal-1 expression and function in vivo. Here we show that administration of a single low-dose cyclophosphamide (Cy), which is capable of restraining metastasis in the rat lymphoma model L-TACB, can also influence Gal-1 expression in primary tumor, metastasis, and spleen cells and modulate the effects of this protein on T cell survival. A time-course study revealed a positive correlation between Gal-1 expression and tumor volume in primary tumor cells. Conversely, Gal-1 expression was significantly reduced in spleen cells and lymph node metastasis throughout the period studied. Interestingly, cyclophosphamide treatment was capable of restoring the basal levels of Gal-1 expression in primary tumors and spleens. In addition, this antimetastatic agent rendered spleen T cells from tumor-bearing animals resistant to Gal-1-induced cell death. Our results suggest that, in addition to other well-known functions of cyclophosphamide, this immunomodulatory agent may also modulate Gal-1 expression and function during tumor growth and metastasis with critical implications for tumor-immune escape and immunotherapy.
Expression of P-glycoprotein in lymphocytes of children with nephrotic syndrome treated with glucocorticoids.	Glucocorticoids are still the mainstay of therapy for nephrotic syndrome (NS) in children. Poor response to glucocorticoids may relate, in part, to the overexpression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). The aim of the present study was to determine the expression of P-gp in lymphocytes (CD3) in the peripheral blood of children with steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome in the dynamics of the disease. The study group (I) consisted of 18 children, median age 5.75 years, with steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome, in whom the examinations were carried out three times: (A) before treatment, during relapse; (B) after 3-4 weeks of prednisone treatment; (C) 2 months after finishing prednisone treatment. The control group (II) consisted of 18 healthy children of the same age. P-gp expression in CD3 lymphocytes of peripheral blood was measured using flow cytometry. During NS relapse and prior to glucocorticoid administration, the CD3/P-gp level was higher (median 3.20%, range 0.80-7.80%) when compared to healthy controls (1.10%, range 0.30- 2.20%) (p<0.01). During glucocorticoid treatment, CD3/P-gp increased significantly and was much higher than in the control group (p<0.01) and in the NS children before treatment (p<0.01). In remission, the P-gp expression decreased, but did not achieve the values of the controls (p<0.05). Fourteen out of eighteen (14/18) children still showed P-gp values above the cut-off level. We also found a positive correlation between the P-gp expression and total prednisone dose in the NS children in all examinations: A: (r=0.540, p<0.05); B: (r=0.630, p<0.01); C: (r=0.653, p<0.01).
Effects of alpha-ketoisocaproate on adrenocorticotropin-induced suppression of lymphocyte function in sheep.	Previous studies of the amino acid analogue, alpha-ketoisocaproate (KIC), indicate that it can stimulate lymphocyte blastogenesis and antibody responses of sheep. To determine whether KIC could overcome the effects of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-induced lymphocyte suppression, 24 lambs were fed a control diet, a diet supplemented with 0.05% KIC, or a diet supplemented with 0.05% of the parent amino acid leucine. Immune status was monitored by determining lymphocyte blastogenic responsiveness to phytohemagglutinin-P (PHA), concanavalin A (conA), and pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and percentages of T-cell subsets in the blood, using monoclonal antibodies and a flow cytometer. Serum cortisol, insulin, and glucagon concentrations also were determined. After 60 days of consuming the respective diet, lambs were administered either saline solution or ACTH (100 IU) twice daily for 3 consecutive days. Administration of ACTH increased serum cortisol and insulin concentrations; however, no effects were seen for serum glucagon concentration. Compared with saline administration, ACTH administration significantly (P less than 0.05) suppressed mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte blastogenesis by approximately 50%, regardless of the mitogen used, and significantly (P less than 0.01) decreased the percentage of circulating T lymphocytes and decreased (P less than 0.01) the ratio of T4 to T8 cells. Lambs fed KIC had greater PHA- and conA-stimulated blastogenic responses and significantly (P less than 0.05) increased ratio of T4 to T8 cells in the blood, compared with lambs fed the leucine-supplemented diet or the control diet and given corresponding injections. These data indicate that ACTH decreased in vitro lymphocyte blastogenesis and altered the subset ratios of blood lymphocytes in sheep. These changes were partially prevented by feeding KIC.
Recognition of human 60 kD heat shock protein by mononuclear cells from patients with juvenile chronic arthritis.	A postulated mechanism for autoimmune disorders is that the immunoreactivity develops against bacterial antigens which show a high degree of sequence homology with mammalian proteins. The mycobacterial 65 kD heat shock protein (hsp) has been implicated in several forms of arthritis. Substantial amounts of the human 60 kD homologue (hsp60) were produced by insertion of the gene into Escherichia coli. To investigate the hypothesis that T-cell reactivity is directed against the endogenous hsp, T-cell proliferation of synovial-fluid and peripheral-blood mononuclear cells in response to hsp60 was studied in samples from six patients with juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) and nine adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). There was no T-lymphocyte proliferative response to purified fractions of hsp60 in mononuclear cells from RA patients or healthy children and young adults. However, both synovial-fluid and peripheral-blood mononuclear cells from JCA patients showed substantial proliferative responses. There was a significant correlation between the stimulation indices for human hsp60 and for mycobacterial hsp65 (r = 0.948, p less than 0.02). A similar correlation for hsp60 and mycobacterial hsp70 did not achieve significance. Immunohistochemistry showed that hsp65 and hsp70 homologues were expressed in the synovial membrane in these patients but not in controls. These findings suggest a sequence of events in which hsps become expressed during synovial inflammation and function as autoantigens. In JCA this may be manifested by specific T-cell reactivity which apparently is lost in the more bone-eroding and non-remitting adult disease.
Side-chain and backbone amide bond requirements for glycopeptide stimulation of T-cells obtained in a mouse model for rheumatoid arthritis.	Collagen induced arthritis (CIA) is the most studied animal model for rheumatoid arthritis and is associated with the MHC class II molecule Aq. T-cell recognition of a peptide from type II collagen, CII256-270, bound to Aq is a requirement for development of CIA. Lysine 264 is the major T-cell recognition site of CII256-270 and CIA is in particular associated with recognition of lysine 264 after posttranslational hydroxylation and subsequent attachment of a beta-D-galactopyranosyl moiety. In this paper we have studied the structural requirements of collagenous glycopeptides required for T-cell stimulation, as an extension of earlier studies of the recognition of the galactose moiety. Synthesis and evaluation of alanine substituted glycopeptides revealed that there are T-cells that only recognise the galactosylated hydroxylysine 264, and no other amino acid side chains in the peptide. Other T-cells also require glutamic acid 266 as a T-cell contact point. Introduction of a methylene ether isostere instead of the amide bond between residues 260 and 261 allowed weaker recognition by some, but not all, of the T-cells. Altogether, these results allowed us to propose a model for glycopeptide recognition by the T-cells, where recognition from one or the other side of the galactose moiety could explain the different binding patterns of the T-cells.
Perturbations in the catfish immune responses by arsenic: organ and cell specific effects.	The present study was an attempt to elucidate the effect of non-lethal arsenic (As) exposure (1/10 LC50) on different immunologically important organs and cells of a catfish. Clarias batrachus L. were exposed to arsenic trioxide for different time intervals, which resulted in significant, time-dependent changes in total head kidney and splenic leucocyte count (p<0.05) and reduction in the organosomatic indices (p<0.05) of these two important immunocompetent organs. Routine histological studies revealed arsenic induced changes in the cellular composition of head kidney and spleen. Arsenic also induced time-dependent and tissue-specific alterations in T and B cell functioning in catfish. When checked for its effects on macrophages, it was noted that arsenic interfered with bacterial phagocytosis. Furthermore, arsenic affected the general immune status of C. batrachus and rendered the fish immunocompromised and susceptible to pathogens.
Reciprocal effects of glucose on the process of cell death induced by calcium ionophore or H2O2 in rat lymphocytes.	We have examined the effects of glucose at high concentrations on the process of cell death induced by excessive increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) or oxidative stress in rat lymphocytes. The cell death elicited by the excessive increase in [Ca(2+)](i) seemed to be induced by an activation of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels because the inhibitors for Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels attenuated the decrease in cell viability. Glucose at 30-50mM augmented the decrease in cell viability by the excessive increase in [Ca(2+)](i). It was not specific for glucose because it was the case for sucrose or NaCl, suggesting an involvement of increased osmolarity in adverse action of glucose. On the contrary, glucose protected the cells suffering from oxidative stress induced by H(2)O(2), one of reactive oxygen species. It was also the case for fructose or sucrose, but not for NaCl. The process of cell death induced by H(2)O(2) started, being independent from the presence of glucose. Glucose delayed the process of cell death induced by H(2)O(2). Sucrose and fructose also protected the cells against oxidative stress. The reactivity of sucrose to reactive oxygen species is lower than those of glucose and fructose. The order in the reactivity cannot explain the protective action of glucose. Glucose at high concentrations exerts reciprocal actions on the process of cell death induced by the oxidative stress and excessive increase in [Ca(2+)](i).
Effect of mycophenolate mofetil on rat kidney grafts with prolonged cold preservation.	The impact of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) on initial renal transplant function is not well characterized. We tested how MMF may modulate graft function and survival in a syngeneic rat kidney transplantation model after prolonged cold preservation. Donor kidneys were preserved in University of Wisconsin for either 24 or 39 h prior to transplantation into nephrectomized rats. Recipients received MMF (20 mg/kg/day) or vehicle. Mycophenolic acid (MPA) blood concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. The inflammatory response, tubular epithelial proliferation, and histologic damage 3 days post-transplantation were assessed microscopically. In the 24 h cold storage (c.s.) group serum-creatinine was measured. In the 39 h c.s. group 1-week recipient survival was determined. After 24 h of c.s., recipient survival was 100%. The number of T-cell infiltrates was low and not influenced by MMF, whereas renal ED1+ cell infiltration was significantly suppressed by MMF. Tubular cell proliferation was enhanced by MMF. Serum-creatinine levels and renal histology were comparable between MMF and vehicle-treated animals. In the 39 h c.s. group, recipient survival was 20% in MMF-treated vs 90% in vehicle-treated animals (P=0.001). MMF effectively suppressed inflammatory cell infiltration and inhibited tubular cell proliferation. MMF-induced structural damage was most striking in the renal papilla. In rat kidney grafts with moderate preservation injury (24 h c.s.), MMF, given at an immunosuppressive dose, showed predominantly antiinflammatory effects without compromising graft function. In grafts with severe preservation injury (39 h c.s.), MMF caused irreversible structural damage and inhibited tubular cell regeneration resulting in renal failure.
Effects of IFN-beta, leptin and simvastatin on LIF secretion by T lymphocytes of MS patients and healthy controls.	In multiple sclerosis (MS), oligodendrocyte injury is believed to be caused by an aberrant immune response initiated by autoreactive T cells. Increasing evidence indicates that inflammatory responses in the central nervous system are not exclusively detrimental, but may also exert protective effects. Such protective effects are potentially mediated by the local secretion of neurotrophic factors by immune cells. We previously reported that T cells and monocytes in vitro and in inflammatory MS lesions produce leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF), a member of the neuropoietic family of neurotrophins. In the present study, we report a reduced LIF production by CD4+ T cells of relapsing remitting MS patients as compared to healthy controls. Furthermore, immunomodulatory agents such as leptin, IFN-beta and simvastatin were studied for their potential to alter LIF and secretion of other cytokines by T cells and monocytes of relapsing remitting MS patients and healthy controls. Low doses of simvastatin, but not IFN-beta or leptin enhanced LIF secretion by CD4+ T cells of RR-MS patients. We further demonstrated that LIF did not influence viability, proliferation and cytokine secretion of T cells. Together these data provide new information on the regulation of LIF secretion by immune cells. Further insights into the complex regulation of neurotrophic factors such as LIF may prove useful for treatment of MS.
Successful induction of clinically competent dendritic cells from granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-mobilized monocytes for cancer vaccine therapy.	Recent studies have suggested that dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is one promising approach for the treatment of cancer. We previously studied the clinical toxicity, feasibility, and efficacy of cancer vaccine therapy with peptide-pulsed DCs. In that study, we used granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood monocytes as a cell source of DCs. However, previous investigations have suggested that G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood monocytes produce reduced levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-12 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. These T helper (Th)-1-type cytokines are thought to promote antitumor immune response. In this study, we assessed the functional abilities of DCs generated from G-CSF-mobilized monocytes obtained from 13 patients with CEA-positive advanced solid cancers. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were obtained from leukapheresis products collected before and after systemic administration of G-CSF (subcutaneous administration of high-dose [5-10 microg/kg] human recombinant G-CSF for five consecutive days). In vitro cytokine production profiles after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were compared between monocytes with and without G-CSF mobilization. DCs generated from monocytes were also examined with respect to cytokine production and the capacity to induce peptide-specific T cell responses. Administration of G-CSF was found to efficiently mobilize peripheral blood monocytes. Although G-CSF-mobilized monocytes (G/Mo) less effectively produced Th-1-type cytokines than control monocytes (C/Mo), DCs generated from G/Mo restored the same level of IL-12 production as that seen in DCs generated from C/Mo. T cell induction assay using recall antigen peptide and phenotypic analyses also demonstrated that DCs generated from G/Mo retained characteristics identical to those generated from C/Mo. Our results suggest that G-CSF mobilization can be used to collect monocytes as a cell source for the generation of DCs for cancer immunotherapy. DCs generated in this fashion were pulsed with HLA-A24-restricted CEA epitope peptide and administered to patients safely; immunological responses were induced in some patients.
Immunomodulatory action of eicosanoids and other small molecular weight products of macrophages.	There is an increasing body of evidence that T cell-mediated immune response is regulated by a variety of small molecular weight products of macrophages. One of the best known immunoregulatory products in this context is prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) which is known to regulate both T cell and macrophage functions. Recently, ornithine, cysteine, and lactate have also been recognized as immunoregulatory mediators. In analogy to the hormone-like cytokines and lymphokines, all these substances are produced by immunologically relevant cells (macrophages) at a variable and regulated rate; and they have been shown to regulate the functional activities of other cells (T cells and macrophages). This brief review describes the key observations that underscore the important regulatory role of these metabolites in physiological and pathological conditions.
Perinatal thymocyte antigen expression and postnatal immune development altered by gestational exposure to tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).	In utero exposure to the environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) was found to alter expression of murine thymocyte fetal cell-surface markers. Pregnant mice were treated (via gavage) with 0, 1.5, or 3.0 micrograms TCDD/kg/day in corn oil on gestational days (gd) 6-14. Offspring were examined on gd 18 and postnatally on d6, d14, and d21, and at 7, 8, and 10 weeks of age. Severe thymic atrophy and cellular depletion were found both pre- and postnatally in TCDD-exposed mice. Immunocytochemical localization of the Thy 1.2 antigen on gd 18 thymocytes revealed no TCDD-related changes in cellular distribution. Flow cytometric analysis, however, indicated that the TCDD treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the percentage of CD4+8+ fetal thymocytes, as well as significantly increased CD4-8- and CD4-8+ thymocytes. The increased CD4-8+ population after TCDD was not from induction of Ts cells. At 7-8 weeks postnatally, no differences existed between control and treatment groups in mitogen responses and antibody plaque response. However, altered thymocyte antigen expression was found to correlate with altered postnatal immune function, as evidenced by decreased cytotoxic T lymphocyte response at 8 weeks of age. Taken together, these results indicate that immunosuppression following prenatal exposure to TCDD can be readily detected by qualitative and quantitative changes in the cell surface phenotype of fetal thymocytes. Furthermore, the observed altered distribution suggests that TCDD inhibits normal thymocyte maturational processes.
Addition of GM-CSF to a peptide/KLH vaccine results in increased frequencies of CXCR3-expressing KLH-specific T cells.	T-cell trafficking is determined by expression patterns of chemokine receptors. The chemokine receptor CXCR3 is expressed on a subpopulation of type 1 T cells and plays an important role for migration of T cells into inflamed and tumor tissues. Here, we studied the chemokine receptor expression on specific T cells generated against the neoantigen keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) in patients who had been immunized in the context of a tumor peptide vaccination trial with or without the adjuvant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). In patients immunized in the presence of GM-CSF the fraction of CXCR3(+) KLH-specific T cells was significantly higher than in patients immunized in the absence of GM-CSF (median 45 vs. 20%, P = 0.001). In contrast, the chemokine receptor CCR4, associated with migration to the skin was found in both cohorts on less than 10% of KLH-specific T cells. These results show that CXCR3 expression on vaccine-induced T cells can be modulated by modifying the local vaccine milieu.
Xenobiotic-induced alterations in thymocyte development.	The thymus is a very sensitive target for environmental pollutants, which can affect this organ as well as thymocyte differentiation. A failure in thymocyte development can be due to the exacerbation of apoptosis, arrest of thymocyte maturation, generation of autoreactive T cells, and inhibition or stimulation of the output of recent thymic emigrants to the periphery. Recent data demonstrate that the immune system has the potential to maintain homeostasis under conditions of elevated risk, and the thymus plays a crucial role in this process. Environmental xenobiotics can exert their effects through receptor-mediated interactions or independently on receptor involvement. Under natural conditions organisms are exposed to a variety of xenobiotics. The final effect of such exposure is not related to the action of a single chemical, but to the action of a mixture of chemicals. The toxic effect of environmental xenobiotics on the generation and functions of immune cells may result in suppression or stimulation of the immune response. The most intensive studies have been done on halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons, heavy metals and various chemicals acting as endocrine disrupters. Recently, special interest has focused on the action of air particulate matter.
Gamma interferon secretion by human Vgamma2Vdelta2 T cells after stimulation with antibody against the T-cell receptor plus the Toll-Like receptor 2 agonist Pam3Cys.	Circulating Vgamma2Vdelta2 T-cell populations in healthy human beings are poised for rapid responses to bacterial or viral pathogens. We asked whether Vgamma2Vdelta2 T cells use the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family to recognize pathogen-associated molecular pattern molecules and to regulate cell functions. Analysis of expanded Vgamma2Vdelta2 T-cell lines showed the abundant presence of TLR2 mRNA, implying that these receptors are important for cell differentiation or function. However, multiple efforts to detect TLR2 protein on the cell surface or in cytoplasmic compartments gave inconsistent results. Functional assays confirmed that human Vgamma2Vdelta2 T cells could respond to the TLR2 agonist (S)-(2,3-bis(palmitoyloxy)-(2RS)-propyl)-N-palmitoyl-(R)-Cys-(S)-Ser(S)-Lys4-OH trihydrochloride (Pam3Cys), but the response required coincident stimulation through the gammadelta T-cell receptor (TCR). Dually stimulated cells produced higher levels of cytoplasmic or cell-free gamma interferon and showed increased expression of the lysosome-associated membrane protein CD107a on the cell surface. A functional TLR2 that requires coincident TCR stimulation may increase the initial potency of Vgamma2Vdelta2 T-cell responses at the site of infection and promote the rapid development of subsequent acquired antipathogen immunity.
Asymptomatic kindred of patients with coronary events have increased peripheral T-cell activities.	T cells are involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. We aimed to search for any association between the peripheral T-cell activities and atherogenic risk factors in healthy subjects. Fifty male volunteers (age 22.0 +/- 2.4 years) were enrolled. No subject had any chronic disease or was under any drug treatment. Lymphocytes were isolated from heparinized venous blood and the proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) were measured from the amount of radioactive thymidine uptake by the lymphocyte DNA. T-cell activity responses of patients with a family history of coronary events were compared with others. The activity responses of smokers were compared with nonsmokers. Subjects with a positive family history of coronary events had higher PHA stimulated T-cell response and delta cpm (P < 0.05 for each). Total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels of the subjects with a positive family history of cardiovascular events were positively correlated with the PHA-activated T-cell responses (P = 0.022, r = 0.604 and P = 0.015, r = 0.635, respectively). There was no significant difference between the T-cell activity responses of smokers and nonsmokers. No correlation was found between the biochemical parameters and T-cell activities in these groups. Peripheral T-cell activity responses to PHA are higher in the asymptomatic relatives of patients with coronary events. This may be a clue for the familial tendency of atherosclerotic diseases. Further follow-up studies are necessary to investigate the relationship.
Cutaneous marginal zone B-cell lymphoma in the setting of fluoxetine therapy: a hypothesis regarding pathogenesis based on in vitro suppression of T-cell-proliferative response.	Drugs may be an important cause of atypical lymphocytic infiltration. Oftentimes, these infiltrates are in the context of pseudolymphomata. We report a patient who developed lymphocytoma cutis temporally associated with initiation of fluoxetine therapy that later went on to develop cutaneous marginal zone B-cell lymphoma. The response of peripheral blood lymphocytes to fluoxetine and other drugs was examined in an attempt to ascertain the potential role for drugs in the propagation of these infiltrates.
Early manifestations of NNK-induced lung cancer: role of lung immunity in tumor susceptibility.	A strong correlation exists between smoking and lung cancer; however, susceptibility to lung cancer among smokers is not uniform. Similarly, mice show differential susceptibility to the tobacco carcinogen nitrosamine 4-(methyl-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), which produces lung tumors in A/J but not in C3H mice. Host immunity may play a role in the susceptibility to cancer, and cigarette smoke/nicotine suppresses the immune system through activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Mammalian lungs express alpha7-nAChRs, and NNK is a high-affinity agonist for alpha7-nAChRs. To examine whether NNK differentially modulates lung immunity in susceptible and resistant mouse strains, A/J and C3H mice were treated with NNK and/or immunized with sheep red blood cells. Lung tissues and RNA of treated and untreated animals were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR for alpha7-nAChR and COX-2 expression. Spleen- and the lung-associated lymph node cells from control and immunized animals were assessed for immunologic responses, including anti-sheep red blood cell antibody plaque-forming cells, concanavalin A-induced T-cell proliferation, and the anti-CD3/CD28 antibody-induced rise in intracellular calcium. NNK strongly suppressed these responses in A/J but not in C3H mice. Similar NNK-induced immunologic changes were seen in another pair of carcinogen-sensitive (NGP) and relatively carcinogen-resistant (B10.A) mouse strains. Moreover, NNK stimulates a significantly higher expression of COX-2 and alpha7-nAChRs in A/J than in C3H lungs. These results suggest that the susceptibility to chemical carcinogenesis among various mouse strains might be influenced by their immunologic response to the carcinogen.
Two new monodesmosidic triterpene saponins from Gypsophila oldhamiana.	Two new monodesmosidic triterpene saponins were isolated from the roots of Gypsophila oldhamiana (Caryophyllaceae). Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral data to be quillaic acid, alpha-L-arabinopyranosyl-(1-->4)-alpha-L-arabinopyranosyl-(1-->3)-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->4)-alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl-(1-->2)-beta-D-fucopyranosyl ester (1), and vaccaric acid, beta-D-glucopyranosyl-(1-->3)-[beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->4)]-alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl-(1-->2)-beta-D-fucopyranosyl ester (2). Compound 1 showed a significant enhancement of granulocyte phagocytosis in vitro.
Reactions to drugs. A review of literature]	Adverse drug reactions are originated by immunological and non-immunological mechanisms. Estimated incidence is of 6.7%, and the incidence of mortal reactions is of 0.32%. In women, skin reaction incidence is 35% higher than in men, and it is 20 times higher than presenting contrast medium-related reactions. Allergic reaction is classified accordingly to Gell and Coombs criteria. It is unknown the pathogenic mechanism of the drug-induced fever. Predictable reaction depends on the dose and it is frequently related to the drug. Unpredictable reaction depends on the individual and pseudoallergic features of each patient; no immunological mechanism is involved. For diagnosis, lymphocyte transformation test measures the T cell proliferation to an in vitro drug; furthermore, it is the most sensitive. There are just a few options to evaluate and manage those patients. When it is impossible to make the exposition test the alternative is to withdraw the drug and try another treatment option. If there is no other available drug, desensitization must be considered.
Novel 2-aminopyrimidine carbamates as potent and orally active inhibitors of Lck: synthesis, SAR, and in vivo antiinflammatory activity.	The lymphocyte-specific kinase (Lck) is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase of the Src family expressed in T cells and NK cells. Genetic evidence in both mice and humans demonstrates that Lck kinase activity is critical for signaling mediated by the T cell receptor (TCR), which leads to normal T cell development and activation. A small molecule inhibitor of Lck is expected to be useful in the treatment of T cell-mediated autoimmune and inflammatory disorders and/or organ transplant rejection. In this paper, we describe the synthesis, structure-activity relationships, and pharmacological characterization of 2-aminopyrimidine carbamates, a new class of compounds with potent and selective inhibition of Lck. The most promising compound of this series, 2,6-dimethylphenyl 2-((3,5-bis(methyloxy)-4-((3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)propyl)oxy)phenyl)amino)-4-pyrimidinyl(2,4-bis(methyloxy)phenyl)carbamate (43) exhibits good activity when evaluated in in vitro assays and in an in vivo model of T cell activation.
Autoreactive T-cell responses in primary biliary cirrhosis are proinflammatory whereas those of controls are regulatory.	Autoreactive T cells that proliferate in response to autoantigens are found in both autoimmune disease and controls but have important qualitative differences in relative activation states, costimulation signal requirements, and pathogenetic significance. Understanding the mechanism for activation of autoreactive T cells will be critical in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Effect of multiple amino acid substitutions of collagen II 263-272 on collagen-induced arthritis]	To evaluate the effect of multiple amino acid substitutions of C II 263-272 peptide on collagen-induced arthritis, and explore a therapeutic strategy of rheumatoid arthritis.
In vitro effects of pure microcystin-LR on the lymphocyte proliferation in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	The aim of this study was to determine the in vitro influence of microcystin-LR on the viability and mitogenic response of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) lymphocytes since few data are available in the literature on the influence of cyanotoxins on fish immunocompetent cells. Lymphocytes were isolated from blood and haematopoietic organs (pronephros and spleen) and cultivated in RPMI 1640 medium with different concentrations of the toxin (1, 5, 10, 20, 40 mg ml-1 of cell suspension). Dose-dependent effects of microcystin-LR on the lymphocyte viability were shown. The lymphocyte proliferation was inhibited after application of microcystin at a concentration of 40 mg ml-1 but significantly increased at a concentration of 1mg ml-1 in comparison to the control group. The results suggest the modulatory effects of microcystin-LR dependent on the applied concentration.
Human galectin-1, -2, and -4 induce surface exposure of phosphatidylserine in activated human neutrophils but not in activated T cells.	Cellular turnover is associated with exposure of surface phosphatidylserine (PS) in apoptotic cells, leading to their phagocytic recognition and removal. But recent studies indicate that surface PS exposure is not always associated with apoptosis. Here we show that several members of the human galectin family of glycan binding proteins (galectins-1, -2, and -4) induce PS exposure in a carbohydrate-dependent fashion in activated, but not resting, human neutrophils and in several leukocyte cell lines. PS exposure is not associated with apoptosis in activated neutrophils. The exposure of PS in cell lines treated with these galectins is sustained and does not affect cell viability. Unexpectedly, these galectins bind well to activated T lymphocytes, but do not induce either PS exposure or apoptosis, indicating that galectin's effects are cell specific. These results suggest novel immunoregulatory contribution of galectins in regulating leukocyte turnover independently of apoptosis.
Age-, gender-, and species-dependent mutagenicity in T cells of mice and rats exposed by inhalation to 1,3-butadiene.	Experiments were performed: (i) to investigate potential age- and gender-dependent differences in mutagenic responses in T cells following exposures of B6C3F1 mice and F344 rats by inhalation for 2 weeks to 0 or 1250 ppm butadiene (BD), and (ii) to determine if exposures for 2 weeks to 62.5 ppm BD produce a mutagenic effect in female rats. To evaluate the effect of age on mutagenic response, mutant manifestation curves for splenic T cells of female mice exposed at 8-9 weeks of age were defined by measuring Hprt mutant frequencies (MFs) at multiple time points after BD exposure using a T cell cloning assay and comparing the resulting mutagenic potency estimate (calculated as the difference of areas under the mutant manifestation curves of treated versus control animals) to that reported for female mice exposed to BD in the same fashion beginning at 4-5 weeks of age. The shapes of the mutant T cell manifestation curves for spleens were different [e.g., the maximum BD-induced MFs in older mice (8.0+/-1.0 [S.D.]x10(-6)) and younger mice (17.8+/-6.1 x 10(-6)) were observed at 8 and 5 weeks post-exposure, respectively], but the mutagenic burden was the same for both age groups. To assess the effect of gender on mutagenic response, female and male rodents were exposed to BD at 4-5 weeks of age and Hprt MFs were measured when maximum MFs are expected to occur post-exposure. The resulting data demonstrated that the pattern for mutagenic susceptibility from high-level BD exposure is female mice>male mice>female rats>male rats. Exposures of female rats to 62.5 ppm BD caused a minor but significant mutagenic response compared with controls (n=16/group; P=0.03). These results help explain part of the differing outcomes/interpretations of data in earlier Hprt mutation studies in BD-exposed rodents.
Homocysteine induces DNA damage and alterations in proliferative capacity of T-lymphocytes: a model for immunosenescence?	Homocysteine (Hcy) appears to exert different effects on immune functions possibly contributing to age-related pathological states, including vascular diseases, immune dysfunction, and Alzheimer's disease. However, molecular mechanisms underlying Hcy toxicity need to be better characterized. Since T cells are a suitable model to address the possible role of replicative senescence during the in vivo aging, we investigated the effects of high Hcy concentrations on mitogen-activated lymphocytes, with regard to evaluation of DNA damage and cell cycle alterations. Cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes were stimulated with mitogenic concanavalin A (5 microg/ml) for 48 h in the presence or absence of Hcy (1 mM). Both flow cytometric analysis and caspase-3 activity assay showed an increased rate of apoptosis in Hcy-treated lymphocyte cultures compared to controls. Further, Hcy exposure caused DNA fragmentation as evaluated by single cell gel electrophoresis showing the occurrence of comets. Cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay, performed after addition of cytochalasin B (5 microg/ml) and incubation up to 72 h, revealed a significantly higher frequency of micronucleated/binucleated cells in Hcy-treated cultures compared to controls (P < 0.001). Hcy also reduced cyclin B expression in comparison to control cultures, while cyclin D levels were not significantly affected. Cell cycle alterations, such as the inability of cells to enter into mitosis, could be related with DNA damage. These findings provided a link between perturbation of lymphocyte proliferation homeostasis and commitment towards apoptosis. Our results suggest the involvement of Hcy in the altered immune function associated with age and disease pathology.
The actin cloud induced by LFA-1-mediated outside-in signals lowers the threshold for T-cell activation.	The dynamic rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton plays critical roles in T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling and immunological synapse (IS) formation in T cells. Following actin rearrangement in T cells upon TCR stimulation, we found a unique ring-shaped reorganization of actin called the "actin cloud," which was specifically induced by outside-in signals through lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) engagement. In T-cell-antigen-presenting cell (APC) interactions, the actin cloud is generated in the absence of antigen and localized at the center of the T-cell-APC interface, where it accumulates LFA-1 and tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. The LFA-1-induced actin cloud formation involves ADAP (adhesion- and degranulation-promoting adaptor protein) phosphorylation, LFA-1/ADAP assembly, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, and occurs independent of TCR and its proximal signaling. The formation of the actin cloud lowers the threshold for subsequent T-cell activation. Thus, the actin cloud induced by LFA-1 engagement may serve as a possible platform for LFA-1-mediated costimulatory function for T-cell activation.
Sodium arsenite-induced inhibition of cell proliferation is related to inhibition of IL-2 mRNA expression in mouse activated T cells.	A proposed mechanism for the As-induced inhibition of cell proliferation is the inhibition of IL-2 secretion. However, the effects of arsenite on IL-2 mRNA expression or on the ERK pathway in activated-T cells have not yet been described. We examined the effect of arsenite on IL-2 mRNA expression, cell activation and proliferation in PHA-stimulated murine lymphocytes. Arsenite (1 and 10 microM) decreased IL-2 mRNA expression, IL-2 secretion and cell proliferation. Arsenite (10 microM) strongly inhibited ERK-phosphorylation. However, the partial inhibition (50%) of IL-2 mRNA produced by 1 microM, consistent with the effects on IL-2 secretion and cell proliferation, could not be explained by the inhibition of ERK-phosphorylation, which was not affected at this concentration. The inhibition of IL-2 mRNA expression caused by 1 microM could be associated to effects on pathways located downstream or parallel to ERK. Arsenite also decreased early activation (surface CD69+ expression) in both CD4+ and CD8+, and decreased total CD8+ count without significantly affecting CD4+, supporting that the cellular immune response mediated by cytotoxic T cells is an arsenic target. Thus, our results suggest that arsenite decreases IL-2 mRNA levels and T-cell activation and proliferation. However, further studies on the effects of arsenite on IL-2 gene transcription and IL-2 mRNA stability are needed.
Tritrichomonas foetus: pathogenesis of acute infection in normal, estradiol-treated, and stressed mice.	Environmental stress and endocrine control can affect pathogenesis of sexually transmitted diseases such as trichomoniasis. Acute Tritrichomonas foetus infection was compared in female BALB/c mice to infections in mice treated with high doses of estradiol or housed in constant bright illumination (stressed). In untreated mice, T. foetus readily colonized the reproductive tract, causing minimal epithelial damage and inflammation. Several fold increases of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, MCP-1, and IL-6 cytokines were detected after estradiol-treatment of mice, resulting in greatly enhanced inflammation and tissue damage throughout the reproductive tract. Interestingly, estradiol-treatment of mice resulted in reduced T. foetus colonization compared to untreated mice. Infection in stressed mice resulted in increased tissue damage, inflammation, and inflammatory cytokine expression, although parasite colonization within the reproductive tract was similar to that in untreated mice. These results indicate that either estradiol-treatment or stress result in pathogenesis often observed during severe disease. Alternatively, infection in non-treated mice results in chronic colonization, with little inflammation or pathology.
Expression of multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein on lymphocytes from nephrotic children treated with cyclosporine A and ACE-inhibitor.	The aim of this work was to determine the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) on peripheral lymphocytes (CD3) in children with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome (SDNS) during cyclosporine A (CyA) and ACE-inhibitor (ACE-I) treatment. The study group (I) consisted of 20 children with SDNS aged 5-18 years, with a subsequent proteinuria relapse at the time of prednisone dose reduction. All nephrotic syndrome (NS) children were examined three times: A--at proteinuria relapse, before CyA treatment; B--after 3 months; C--after 12 months of CyA administration. The control group (II) consisted of 20 healthy children. CD3/P-gp was measured using a flow cytometry assay. The serum CyA level was assessed by means of the immunofluorescence method. The expression of CD3/P-gp in NS relapse, prior to CyA+ACE-I administration, was much higher (median 9.15%, range 1.50-13.50%) when compared to healthy controls (median 1.20%, range 0.30-5.70%). The absolute number of CD3/P-gp in this examination was almost five times higher when compared to healthy controls (p<0.01). After 3 months of CyA+ACE-I therapy, the expression of CD3/P-gp decreased dramatically and was similar to the controls. Similar results were obtained after 12 months of treatment. A strong negative correlation was found between CD3/P-gp and serum CyA concentration in both examinations (r=-0.624, p<0.01; r=-0.464, p<0.01). We conclude that the results of our studies indicate that CyA+ACE-I in SDNS inhibits the expression of P-gp. CyA is an alternative therapy that may lead to the optimization of glucocorticoid (GC) doses, thus, reducing the risk that is associated with the treatment.
Treatment with rituximab affects both the cellular and the humoral arm of the immune system in patients with SLE.	Herein we investigated how rituximab-induced B cell depletion affected leukocyte subpopulations and antibody titers in SLE patients. We focused our analysis on time points related to absence and return of B cells after depletion. A correlation was found between the baseline frequency and time to repopulation; the fewer B cells initially, the longer to their return. While the few B cells remaining after treatment were of memory, double-negative (IgD-CD27-), and CD5+ phenotype, the returning B cells were mainly nave, indicating de novo production of B cells. Serum levels of IgG and antibodies against Ro52, Ro60, La44, measles and tetanus remained unchanged, while decreases in IgM, IgE, anti-dsDNA and anti-C1q antibodies were observed. Additionally, a significant increase in activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, as well as CD25bright FOXP3+ regulatory T cells was observed. In conclusion, both the humoral and the cellular immune systems were affected by treatment with rituximab.
CD4 and CD7 molecules as targets for drug delivery from antibody bearing liposomes.	We have examined two T lymphocyte cell surface molecules, CD4 and CD7, as targets for specific delivery of drugs from antibody-directed liposomes. The efficiency of uptake by peripheral lymphocytes, thymocytes, and two CEM sublines (CEM.MRS and CEM-T4) of anti-CD4 and anti-CD7 liposomes containing methotrexate was evaluated by the methotrexate-mediated inhibition of the incorporation of d-[3H]Urd into DNA. This was compared with similar liposomes targeted to MHC-encoded HLA class I molecules, which are known to be efficiently taken up by T cells. Despite the lower expression of CD7 molecules relative to HLA class I on most cell lines, CD7 was shown to be a good target for drug delivery. The results of an internalization study using radiolabeled Protein A showed that a higher proportion of CD7 molecules was internalized than HLA class I molecules. CD4-targeted liposomes, in contrast, were relatively ineffective for drug delivery for lymphoid cells, and only partially inhibited CEM-T4 cells. The lack of toxicity correlated with poor internalization of the target molecule on most cell lines. The drug effect of anti-CD4 liposomes was more pronounced on HeLa-T4, which is an epithelial cell line transfected with the CD4 gene. In contrast to lymphoid cells, these cells efficiently internalized CD4 molecules. PMA is known to down-regulate surface expression of CD4 molecules on various T cells. Internalization of CD4 was induced by PMA, but PMA failed to induce cytotoxicity of CD4-targeted liposomes for CEM.MRS. The internalized drug was probably degraded rapidly because internalized anti-CD4 antibody-bound Protein A was degraded very rapidly.
Green tea and skin cancer: photoimmunology, angiogenesis and DNA repair.	Human skin is constantly exposed to numerous noxious physical, chemical and environmental agents. Some of these agents directly or indirectly adversely affect the skin. Cutaneous overexposure to environmental solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation (290-400 nm) has a variety of adverse effects on human health, including the development of melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancers. Therefore, there is a need to develop measures or strategies, and nutritional components are increasingly being explored for this purpose. The polyphenols present in green tea (Camellia sinensis) have been shown to have numerous health benefits, including protection from UV carcinogenesis. (-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) is the major and most photoprotective polyphenolic component of green tea. In this review article, we have discussed the most recent investigations and mechanistic studies that define and support the photoprotective efficacy of green tea polyphenols (GTPs) against UV carcinogenesis. The oral administration of GTPs in drinking water or the topical application of EGCG prevents UVB-induced skin tumor development in mice, and this prevention is mediated through: (a) the induction of immunoregulatory cytokine interleukin (IL) 12; (b) IL-12-dependent DNA repair following nucleotide excision repair mechanism; (c) the inhibition of UV-induced immunosuppression through IL-12-dependent DNA repair; (d) the inhibition of angiogenic factors; and (e) the stimulation of cytotoxic T cells in a tumor microenvironment. New mechanistic information strongly supports and explains the chemopreventive activity of GTPs against photocarcinogenesis.
The effect of the immunosuppressant FK-506 on alternate pathways of T cell activation.	Structurally unrelated, FK-506 and cyclosporin (CsA) bind to and inhibit the action of distinct cytoplasmic receptors, FK-506-binding protein (FKBP) and cyclophilin (CyP), respectively. These receptors, termed immunophilins, share no sequence similarity, and yet both have been demonstrated to be capable of catalyzing the cis-trans isomerization of peptidyl-prolyl bonds (rotamase activity). Because FK-506 and CsA bind to different intracellular target structures, we investigated the spectrum of action of FK-506, in comparison to CsA, on T cell activation. We have shown that FK-506, like CsA, is able to inhibit T cell activation mediated not only by the T cell receptor-CD3 complex, but also via another surface molecule, CD2. T cell proliferation, stimulation of interleukin 2 production, and induction of apoptosis were all sensitive to inhibition by both FK-506 and CsA. With each parameter of activation, FK-506 is approximately 10-100-fold more effective than CsA. In contrast, FK-506 did not affect T cell proliferation induced by anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody in the presence of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. This CD28 pathway, however, was inhibited by a structural homology of FK-506, rapamycin, demonstrating that the mechanism of action of FK-506 has specificity. These data suggest that immunophilins or the complex of drug coupled to immunophilin (i.e. FK-506/FKBP, CsA/CyP) are involved in and regulate selective pathways of T cell stimulation.
Carbohydrate-binding agents efficiently prevent dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN)-directed HIV-1 transmission to T lymphocytes.	Exposure of HIV-1 to dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN)-expressing B-lymphoblast Raji cells (Raji/DC-SIGN) but not to wild-type Raji/0 cells results in the capture of HIV-1 particles to the cells as measured by the quantification of cell-associated p24 antigen. Cocultivation of HIV-1-captured Raji/DC-SIGN cells with uninfected CD4+ T lymphocyte C8166 cells results in abundant formation of syncytia within 36 h after cocultivation. Short preexposure of HIV-1 to carbohydrate-binding agents (CBA) dose dependently prevents the Raji/DC-SIGN cells from efficiently binding the virus particles, and no syncytia formation occurs upon subsequent cocultivation with C8166 cells. Thus, the mannose-specific [i.e., the plant lectins Hippeastrum hybrid agglutinin (HHA), Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA), Narcissus pseudonarcissus agglutinin; and Cymbidium agglutinin (CA); the procaryotic cyanovirin-N (CV-N); and the monoclonal antibody 2G12) and N-acetylglucosamine-specific (i.e., the plant lectin Urtica dioica agglutinin) CBAs efficiently abrogate the DC-SIGN-directed HIV-1 capture and subsequent transmission to T lymphocytes. In this assay, the CD4-down-regulating cyclotriazodisulfonamide derivative, the CXCR4 and CCR5 coreceptor antagonists 1-[[4-(1,4,8,11-tetrazacyclotetradec-1-ylmethyl)phenyl]methyl] - 1,4,8,11 - tetrazacyclotetradecane (AMD3100) and maraviroc, the gp41-binding enfuvirtide, and the polyanionic substances dextran sulfate (M(r) 5000), sulfated polyvinyl alcohol, and the naphthalene sulfonate polymer PRO-2000 were markedly less efficient or even completely ineffective. Similar observations were made in primary monocyte-derived dendritic cell cultures that were infected with HIV-1 particles that had been shortly pre-exposed to the CBAs CV-N, CA, HHA, and GNA and the polyanions DS-5000 and PRO-2000. The potential of CBAs, but not polyanions and other structural/functional classes of entry inhibitors, to impair DC-SIGN-expressing cells in their capacity of transmitting HIV to T lymphocytes might be an important property to be taken into consideration in the eventual choice to move microbicide candidate drugs to the clinical setting.
Sister-chromatid exchange in human B- and T-lymphocytes exposed to bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, and ethyl methanesulfonate.	Sister-chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies were investigated in mitogen-stimulated cultures of highly purified human peripheral blood B- and T-lymphocytes exposed to bleomycin (BM), cyclophosphamide (CP), or ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS). In untreated controls, T-lymphocytes showed twice as many SCEs as B-lymphocytes. CP (with metabolic activation) and EMS significantly increased the SCE frequencies. EMS induced a similar, dose-dependent SCE increase in both cell populations, whereas CP induced more SCEs in T- than in B-lymphocytes. No clear SCE increase was found in B- and T-lymphocytes treated with BM.
Immunosuppressive activity of a new pteridine derivative (4AZA1378) alleviates severity of TNBS-induced colitis in mice.	Besides TNF, activated T cells play a central role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases such as Crohn's disease. New therapies are still awaited to cure these often debilitating diseases. Natural occurring pteridines such as tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) and neopterin have been reported to have immune modulating activities. Starting from a pteridine scaffold library, we intended to select compounds with potent in vitro inhibitory effects on T cells and to evaluate in vivo efficacy of selected compounds on trinitrobenzenesulphonate (TNBS) colitis in mice. Compound 4AZA1378 was selected because it potently inhibits human T cell proliferation at low nM concentrations (IC50 4 nM) while an almost 50-fold higher concentration was needed to inhibit LPS-induced TNF production. Mice treated with 4AZA1378 had less severe signs of colitis after TNBS rectal administration, with a more rapid weight recovery. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and intralesional cytokine production were lower in mice of the treated groups. Furthermore anti-TNBS antibody responses were completely inhibited by treatment with 4AZA1378. In conclusion, we identified a pteridine analogue 4AZA1378 with immunosuppressive activity and a strong remission-inducing effect in TNBS colitis, supporting further pre-clinical and clinical development of this novel molecule for treatment of inflammatory diseases.
Synthesis and evaluation of 2-{[2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-ethyl]amino}pyrimidine-5-carboxamide derivatives as novel STAT6 inhibitors.	The STAT6 (signal transducers and activators of transcription 6) protein is activated by interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13, and plays an important role in T-helper cell 2 (Th2) differentiation. STAT6 might therefore be an excellent therapeutic target for various allergic conditions, including asthma and atopic diseases. We synthesized a series of 2-{[2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl]amino}pyrimidine-5-carboxamide derivatives and evaluated their STAT6 inhibitory activities. Among these compounds, 4-(benzylamino)-2-{[2-(3-chloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl]amino}pyrimidine-5-carboxamide (2t, AS1517499) showed potent STAT6 inhibition with an IC(50) value of 21 nM, and also inhibited IL-4-induced Th2 differentiation of mouse spleen T cells with an IC(50) value of 2.3 nM and without influencing T-helper cell 1 (Th1) differentiation induced by IL-12.
Discovery and synthesis of new immunosuppressive alkaloids from the stem of Fissistigma oldhamii (Hemsl.) Merr.	Three new alkaloids (1-3) and twenty-one known compounds were isolated from the stem of Fissistigma oldhamii (Hemsl.) Merr. which was the ruler herb in an approved Traditional Chinese herbal formula used for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in China and synthesis of one new immunosuppressive alkaloid was achieved. These compounds, including the crude extracts of this herb, exhibited strong activities in the inhibition of T and B cell proliferation.
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate enhances IgG and Interferon-gamma production during immunization to tuberculosis in young but not aged mice.	Ageing of the endocrine system (endocrinosenescence) has been closely related to immunosenescence. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS), a steroid hormone produced by the adrenals with reported enhancing immunomodulatory properties, consistently decline during ageing in parallel to detrimental increase in peripheral glucocorticoids. We investigated here the adjuvant effects of DHEAS during intraperitoneal immunization to Mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 70 (mycHSP70) in old (24 months) as well as young (3 months) BALB/c mice. Both young and old mice had significantly higher Immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels following immunization. Young mice co-immunized with mycHSP70-DHEAS presented an early increase in specific IgG levels and showed increased Interferon-gamma production compared to old mice. Also, T cells of immunized young animals were consistently more resistant to the immunosuppressive effects of glucocorticoids and to DHEAS. DHEAS was not effective in modulating antigen-specific T-cell proliferation, Interleukin-2 production or percentage of recent activated T-cell subsets (CD4 + CD69 + and CD8 + CD69 +). Our data further indicate mycHSP70 as a putative good antigen in vaccine to tuberculosis. Our data also suggest that DHEAS produced adjuvant effects upon humoral and some cellular immune responses of young, but not old mice and indicate that immunization with DHEAS is capable of changing T-cell responses to steroids.
Computational analysis of CFSE proliferation assay.	CFSE based tracking of the lymphocyte proliferation using flow cytometry is a powerful experimental technique in immunology allowing for the tracing of labelled cell populations over time in terms of the number of divisions cells undergone. Interpretation and understanding of such population data can be greatly improved through the use of mathematical modelling. We apply a heterogenous linear compartmental model, described by a system of ordinary differential equations similar to those proposed by Kendall. This model allows division number-dependent rates of cell proliferation and death and describes the rate of changes in the numbers of cells having undergone j divisions. The experimental data set that we specifically analyze specifies the following characteristics of the kinetics of PHA-induced human T lymphocyte proliferation assay in vitro: (1) the total number of live cells, (2) the total number of dead but not disintegrated cells and (3) the number of cells divided j times. Following the maximum likelihood approach for data fitting, we estimate the model parameters which, in particular, present the CTL birth- and death rate "functions". It is the first study of CFSE labelling data which convincingly shows that the lymphocyte proliferation and death both in vitro and in vivo are division number dependent. For the first time, the confidence in the estimated parameter values is analyzed by comparing three major methods: the technique based on the variance-covariance matrix, the profile-likelihood-based approach and the bootstrap technique. We compare results and performance of these methods with respect to their robustness and computational cost. We show that for evaluating mathematical models of differing complexity the information-theoretic approach, based upon indicators measuring the information loss for a particular model (Kullback-Leibler information), provides a consistent basis. We specifically discuss methodological and computational difficulties in parameter identification with CFSE data, e.g. the loss of confidence in the parameter estimates starting around the sixth division. Overall, our study suggests that the heterogeneity inherent in cell kinetics should be explicitly incorporated into the structure of mathematical models.
Fractionation and characterization of 2',5'-oligoadenylates by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis: an alternative method for assaying 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase.	2',5'-Linked oligoadenylates of varying chain lengths (2,5As) are formed from ATP by an interferon (IFN)-induced enzyme, 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase (2-5A synthetase). To identify these multiple forms, a method was devised utilizing electrophoretic separation of 32P-labeled 2,5As in a thin 20% polyacrylamide gel containing 7 M urea. A mixture of 2,5As synthesized from rat liver nuclear suspension was fractionated by this method. Each species was eluted from the gel for characterization by specific nucleotidylic enzymes. All major species in the gel were identified, including dimeric, trimeric, and tetrameric forms with either 5' tri- or diphosphates, as well as dephosphorylated species. Thus, in a single step, this method produced a more complete assessment of newly synthesized 2,5As and their degradative products than conventional, multistep DEAE-cellulose chromatography. It also allowed more rapid screening of multiple samples than high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). This method, used to assay 2-5A synthetase induction by IFN-alpha in human T-cell H9 and CEM-CM3 lines, should be applicable for routine analysis of clinical specimens.
T cells contribute to lysophosphatidylcholine-induced macrophage activation and demyelination in the CNS.	We have previously shown that intraspinal microinjection of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), a potent demyelinating agent, results in a rapid but brief influx of T cells (between 6 and 12 h). This is accompanied by a robust activation of macrophages/microglia that leads to demyelination by 48 h. In the present study, we examined whether this brief influx of T cells contributes to the activation of macrophages/microglia and demyelination by injecting LPC into the dorsal column white matter of athymic Nude mice that lack T cells. We show that there is a significant reduction in macrophage/microglial activation and myelin clearance after LPC injection in Nude mice as compared with wildtype controls. We also show that there is no difference in the recruitment of hematogenous macrophages into the spinal cord after LPC injection in the two mouse strains. Of the T cell cytokines assessed, there was a marked reduction in the mRNA expression of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in Nude mice compared with wildtype animals. Neutralizing IL-2 with function-blocking antibodies in wildtype animals resulted in a significant decrease in the number of phagocytic macrophages/microglia and a reduction in demyelination induced by LPC. While there may be other defects in Nude mice that might contribute to the effects shown here, these data suggest that the brief influx of T cells in this model of chemically-induced demyelination could play a role in macrophage/microglial activation and demyelination. These results may also have implications for remyelination in this and other types of CNS damage.
Selective antiviral activity of synthetic soluble L-tyrosine and L-dopa melanins against human immunodeficiency virus in vitro.	Melanins are pigments found in hair, skin, irides of the eye, and brain. Their functions in mammals include protection from exposure to sunlight, camouflage from predators, sexual recognition within species, and possible electron transfer reactants. Most natural melanins exist in an insoluble form, which is one reason there is little information on the biological properties of soluble melanins. Here, synthetic soluble melanins were obtained by chemical oxidation of L-tyrosine or spontaneous oxidation of L-beta-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa). Replication of human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2) was inhibited by soluble melanin in two human lymphoblastoid cell lines (MT-2 and H9) and in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human T cells. Effective concentrations of 0.15-10 micrograms/ml had no cell toxicity. Melanin blocked infection by cell-free virus and interfered with HIV-induced syncytium formation and cytopathic effects when fusion-susceptible, uninfected cells, were mixed with chronically infected cells. Melanin also impeded the HIV-1 envelope surface glycoprotein, and T cell specific monoclonal antibody leu-3a (CD4), but not leu-5b (CD2), from binding to the surface of MT-2 cells. No effect on HIV-1 reverse transcriptase activity in viral lysates was observed. These results identify a unique biological property of melanin, and suggest that soluble melanins may represent a new class of pharmacologically active substances which should be further investigated for potential therapeutic utility in the treatment of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
Protein kinase C regulates both production and secretion of interleukin 2.	Inhibiting protein kinase C (PKC) activity abrogated interleukin 2 (IL2) production by mitogen-stimulated human T lymphocytes. This effect was due partially to a 50% decrease in IL2 gene expression. However, when PKC inhibitors were added after IL2 gene transcription had already proceeded for 3-4 h, the IL2 in the culture supernatants was still reduced by 30-80%, and intracellular IL2 was increased by up to 50%. The inhibition of PKC affected the expression of IL2 receptors by these cells differently; it had little effect on gene expression or on the membrane-bound form of the receptor, but it decreased soluble receptors in the supernatants by 50-80%. These data indicate that in addition to its previously defined role in gene expression, PKC can also regulate extracellular secretion of proteins critical for T cell proliferation.
Four molecular pathways of T cell adhesion to endothelial cells: roles of LFA-1, VCAM-1, and ELAM-1 and changes in pathway hierarchy under different activation conditions.	T cell adhesion to endothelium is critical to lymphocyte recirculation and influx into sites of inflammation. We have systematically analyzed the role of four receptor/ligand interactions that mediate adhesion of peripheral human CD4+ T cells to cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC): T cell LFA-1 binding to ICAM-1 and an alternative ligand ("ICAM-X"), T cell VLA-4 binding to VCAM-1, and T cell binding to ELAM-1. Contributions of these four pathways depend on the activation state of both the T cell and HUVEC, and the differentiation state of the T cell. ELAM-1 plays a significant role in mediating adhesion of resting CD4+ T cells to activated HUVEC. LFA-1 adhesion dominates with PMA-activated T cells but the strength and predominant LFA-1 ligand is determined by the activation state of the HUVEC; while ICAM-1 is the dominant ligand on IL-1-induced HUVEC, "ICAM-X" dominates binding to uninduced HUVEC. Adhesion via VLA-4 depends on induction of its ligand VCAM-1 on activated HUVEC; PMA activation of T cells augments VLA-4-mediated adhesion, both in the model of T/HUVEC binding and in a simplified model of T cell adhesion to VCAM-1-transfected L cells. Unlike LFA-1 and VLA-4, ELAM-1-mediated adhesion is not increased by T cell activation. Differential expression of adhesion molecules on CD4+ T cell subsets understood to be naive and memory cells also regulates T/HUVEC adhesion. Naive T cell adhesion to HUVEC is mediated predominantly by LFA-1 with little or no involvement of the VLA-4 and ELAM-1 pathways. In contrast, memory T cells bind better to HUVEC and utilize all four pathways. These studies demonstrate that there are at least four molecular pathways mediating T/HUVEC adhesion and that the dominance/hierarchy of these pathways varies dramatically with the activation state of the interacting cells and the differentiation state of the T cell.
IFNalpha2b stimulated release of IFNgamma differentially regulates T cell and NK cell mediated tumor cell cytotoxicity.	Interferonalpha2b (IFNalpha2b) augments the suppressed immune functions and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cytotoxicity of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients by differential regulation of IFNgamma, a pleotropic Th1 cytokine. In the present communication, we have examined the role of IFNgamma in IFNalpha2b initiated T and NK cell mediated cytotoxicity of tumor cells. IFNalpha2b activates both T and NK cells to release IFNgamma. IFNgamma plays a crucial role in enhancing tumor cell cytotoxicity by T cells, but not by NK cells, as evidenced by killing of a oral (KB) and breast (MCF7) cancer cells, without affecting the killing of NK sensitive erythroleukemic K562 cells by IFNalpha2b activated PBMC. IFNalpha2b driven tumor cell cytotoxicity is related to the rectification of the downregulated expression of cytotoxic molecules, perforin, granzyme B and FasL in CD8+ T and CD56+ NK cells. Expression of IFNalpha2b mediated perforin and granzyme B is dependent on IFNgamma in T cells, but not in NK cells. However, expression of FasL in both T and NK cells is not dependent on IFNgamma. In conclusion, IFNalpha2b enhances suppressed T cell cytotoxicity of HNSCC patients by stimulating perforin-granzyme B system, which is IFNgamma dependent. IFNalpha2b also induces the expression of perforin-granzyme B system in NK cells, but this NK mediated cytotoxicity is IFNgamma independent.
Inhibition of the pro-inflammatory mediators' production and anti-inflammatory effect of the iridoid scrovalentinoside.	We have studied scrovalentinoside, an iridoid with anti-inflammatory properties isolated from Scrophularia auriculata ssp. pseudoauriculata, as an anti-inflammatory agent in different experimental models of delayed-type hypersensitivity. We found that scrovalentinoside reduced the edema induced by oxazolone at 0.5 mg/ear and sheep red blood cells at 10 mg/kg. The observed effect occurred during the last phase or inflammatory response; during the earlier phase or induction of the delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction, no significant activity was noted. Thus, scrovalentinoside reduced both the edema and cell infiltration in vivo and reduced lymphocyte proliferation in vitro, affecting the cycle principally during the first 48 h. Whereas cells stimulated with phytohemagglutinin changed from the G(0)/G(1) phase to the S and G(2)/M phases, when these same cells were treated with scrovalentinoside (100 microM), they remained in the G(0)/G(1) phase. Finally, scrovalentinoside inhibited the production of the pro-inflammatory mediators' TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, LTB(4), and NO, but had no effect on the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10.
Discoidin domain receptor 2 is involved in the activation of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells caused by type I collagen.	Discoidin domain receptors (DDRs), DDR1 and DDR2, are non-integrin receptor tyrosine kinases for collagen in many cell types. In this study, we investigated the contributions of DDRs to the activation of mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs) by type I collagen (ColI). Our data showed that transcript and protein of DDR2 were expressed constitutively in immature DCs and upregulated in TNF-alpha-stimulated mature DCs. ColI treatment induced DDR2 phosphorylation and subsequently induced the upregulation of IL-12 production, CD86 expression, and antigen uptake activity by immature DCs. Depletion of DDR2 by specific siRNA attenuated significantly an increase in expression of IL-12 and CD86 in ColI-treated DCs. Additionally, DDR2-ColI interaction upregulated the ability of mature DCs to activate allogeneic T cells. These findings suggest that DDR2 is a critical collagen receptor for DC activation and that DDR2-collagen interaction plays an important role in the functional capacity of DCs regulating immune responses.
Contribution of thioredoxin reductase to T-cell mitogenesis and NF-kappaB DNA-binding promoted by selenite.	Although the essential role of selenium for cellular immune responses is obvious, delineation of the functions is lacking because selenium can either promote or inhibit cell growth, cytokine production, and activation of transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Studies with human thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1)-transgenic (Tg) mice were conducted to evaluate the relationship between stimulation of T-cell mitogenic response by sodium selenite and the intracellular Trx-1 levels, and the activities of selenoenzymes and NF-kappaB-DNA binding. Concanavalin A-induced mitogenesis of wild-type mouse splenic cells was stimulated by exposure to low levels of selenite (0.02-0.1 microM), with augmentation of NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity. Treatment with NF-kappaB nuclear translocation inhibitor SN50 or thioredoxin reductase (TR) inhibitor aurothioglucose depressed this stimulatory action. The mitogenic response of Trx-1-Tg mouse splenic cells was enhanced by exposure to relatively high levels of selenite (> or = 0.05 microM), compared with the wild-type mouse. Selenite also augmented TR activity but not cellular glutathione peroxidase activity in the Trx-1-overexpressed cells. These results suggest that the stimulation of T-cell mitogenic response by the physiological levels of selenite is predominantly caused by increased TR activity, which may lead to reduction of Trx-1 dependent on the intracellular expression level and promotion of DNA binding of NF-kappaB.
The superantigen-induced polarization of T cells in rat peripheral lymph nodes is influenced by genetic polymorphisms in the IL-4 and IL-6 gene clusters.	In recent years, it has become clear that the polarization of T cells depends on the genetic background. However, due to the complexity of the genetic background of each animal, a direct comparison of the phenotype is difficult. In this study, a new rat strain LEW.BN-4-10 carrying the chromosomal regions on chromosomes 4 and 10, which harbor IL-6 and IL-4 gene clusters of BN, has been bred on the genetic background of LEW. It was asked whether these two gene clusters influence the polarization of T cell responses. As a model, the Mycoplasma arthritidis mitogen (MAM)-induced inflammation was used focusing on the microenvironment of the draining lymph node (LN). The effect of differences in these regions was tested by comparing LEW.BN-4-10 and LEW rats under steady-state conditions and upon injection of MAM into the forepaw. Under steady-state conditions, the two strains showed differences in the dendritic cell (DC) subset composition. When MAM was injected, the number of T cells in LEW.BN-4-10 rats producing T(h)2 cytokines such as IL-4 and IL-13 was significantly increased compared with LEW. The data suggest that these differences in the microenvironments in LN of LEW and LEW.BN-4-10 rats resulted in different susceptibility to the disease (increase of cells in LN and paw swelling). In addition, deviations in the distribution and function of injected effector T cells were found in the LN of LEW and LEW.BN-4-10 rats after MAM treatment. The data indicate that the IL-6 and IL-4 gene clusters are involved in polarizing T cell responses in vivo.
Phytosphingosine in combination with TRAIL sensitizes cancer cells to TRAIL through synergistic up-regulation of DR4 and DR5.	Sensitization of cancer cells to TRAIL could improve the effectiveness of TRAIL as an anticancer agent. We explored whether TRAIL in combination with phytosphingosine could sensitize cancer cells to TRAIL. The combined treatment enhanced synergistic apoptotic cell death of Jurkat T cells, compared to TRAIL or phytosphingosine alone. Enhanced apoptosis in response to the combination treatment was associated with caspase-8 activation-mediated Bax and Bak activation and mitochondrial dysfunction. The combination treatment also resulted in synergistic up-regulation of TRAIL receptor R1 (DR4) and R2 (DR5). siRNA targeting of DR5 significantly attenuated the combination treatment-induced caspase-8 activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptotic cell death. Upon stimulation of cells with the combination treatment, NF-kappaB was activated. Moreover, siRNA targeting of NF-kappaB significantly attenuated the combination treatment-induced DR4 and DR5 expression and receptor-mediated caspase-8 activation. These results indicate that phytosphingosine sensitizes cancer cells to TRAIL through the synergistic up-regulation of DR4 and DR5 in an NF-kappaB-dependent fashion resulting in caspase-8 activation and subsequent mitochondrial dysfunction. These findings support the potential application of combination treatment with TRAIL and phytosphingosine in the treatment of cancers that are less sensitive to TRAIL.
Differential effects of single dose FTY720 on CD62L+ B-cells in stable renal allograft recipients.	FTY720, a sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor agonist, is the archeotype of a new class of immune modulators, which redirects lymphocytes from the peripheral blood into secondary lymphatic tissue. Previously, it was shown that FTY720 differentially decreases peripheral T-cells, expressing specific chemokine and adhesion receptors. Here, we investigated the effect of single doses FTY720 on peripheral B-cells expressing CD62L, CD11a, CD49d and CXCR4 in stable human renal allograft recipients. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were isolated by Ficoll density centrifugation and stained with monoclonal antibodies against CD3 or CD19 and CD62L, CD11a, CD49d, CXCR4 to determine the percentage of these T- and B-cell subpopulations. Total lymphocyte counts were measured by routine laboratory diagnostics to calculate absolute lymphocyte subset counts. In FTY720 treated patients, total lymphocyte counts decreased by 31.8% (0.25-2 mg) and 60.4% (3.5 mg), and total T-cell counts by 38.8% (0.25-2 mg) and 70.9% (3.5 mg). In comparison, total B-cell counts decreased by 32.2% (0.25-2 mg) and 61.1% (3.5 mg). The reduction of CD62L+ B-cells was less pronounced as compared to CD62L+ T-cells (0.25-2 mg: 15.7% vs. 57.3%; 3.5 mg: 57.2% vs. 86.9%). CD11a+ B-cells decreased by 15.4% (0.25-2 mg) and 57.1% (3.5 mg), and CD49d+ B-cells by 15.0% (0.25-2 mg) and 56.7% (3.5 mg). CXCR4+ B-cells decreased by 19.9% (0.25-2 mg) and 57.2% (3.5 mg). In vitro experiments showed that FTY720 did not change the mean expression of CD62L, CD11a, CD49d and CXCR4 on CD19+ B-cells. In conclusion FTY720 treatment reduces B-cells expressing CD62L to a significant lesser degree than T-cells expressing CD62L.
Histidine decarboxylase-stimulating and inflammatory effects of alendronate in mice: involvement of mevalonate pathway, TNFalpha, macrophages, and T-cells.	Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (NBPs) are powerful anti-bone-resorptive drugs, but they frequently induce various inflammatory side effects. Recent clinical applications have disclosed an unexpected new side effect, jaw-bone necrosis and exposure. In vitro studies suggest that the inflammatory effects of NBPs are due to Vgamma2Vdelta2 T-cells, stimulated directly and/or indirectly [the latter via isopentenylpyrophosphate (IPP) in the mevalonate pathway]. Rats and mice, however, lack Vgamma2Vdelta2 T-cells, yet NBPs still induce necrotic and inflammatory reactions. In mice, NBPs induce IL-1-dependent inflammatory reactions, such as inductions of histidine decarboxylase (HDC, the histamine-forming enzyme) in the liver, lung, spleen, and bone marrow, an increase in granulocytic cells in the peritoneal cavity, pleural exudation, and splenomegaly. Here, we examined the involvement of IPP, TNF, macrophages, and T-cells in the inflammatory actions of alendronate (a typical NBP) in mice. Various statins (mevalonate-synthesis inhibitors) suppressed the alendronate-induced HDC inductions, while mevalonate itself augmented such inductions. IPP injection also induced HDC. Like IL-1-deficient mice, TNF-deficient mice were resistant to alendronate-stimulated HDC induction. Alendronate-stimulated HDC inductions were significantly weaker in macrophage-depleted mice and in nude mice than in control mice. Similar, though generally less clear-cut, results were obtained when other alendronate-induced inflammatory reactions were examined. These results suggest that (i) inhibition of the mevalonate pathway causes and/or modifies at least some inflammatory actions of alendronate in mice, (ii) in addition to IL-1, TNF is also involved in the inflammatory actions of alendronate, and (iii) alendronate may act on a variety of cells, including macrophages and T-cells.
Effect of pentoxifylline on differentiation and maturation of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells in vitro.	Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a drug used for the treatment of vascular disorders, but it also has a positive therapeutic effect in experimental models of some autoimmune diseases. In this work, we studied the effect of PTX on human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MDDCs). Immature MDDCs were generated in vitro from monocytes in the presence of recombinant human granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) and recombinant human interleukin-4 (rhIL-4), while mature MDDCs were obtained by cultivation of immature MDDCs with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). PTX (200 micro g/ml) was added at the beginning of cell cultivation. We found that PTX significantly impaired differentiation and function of immature MDDCs, as judged by the reduced allostimulatory activity of these cells on allogeneic T cells and down-regulation of costimulatory and adhesion molecules, such as CD86, CD40 and CD54. The maturation of MDDCs in the presence of PTX and LPS was characterized by the decreased expression of maturation marker CD83 and costimulatory molecule CD86, as well as lower stimulation of alloreactive T cells compared to the control MDDCs cultivated with LPS alone. PTX-treated MDDCs which were induced to mature with LPS produced lower levels of TNF-alpha, IL-12 and IL-18 and higher levels of IL-10 than corresponding control MDDCs. PTX did not significantly alter endocytosis of dextran by both immature and mature MDDCs. Cumulatively, our results show for the first time that PTX might impair differentiation, maturation and function of human MDDCs in vitro, suggesting an additional mechanism of its immunomodulatory activity.
Trichostatin A down-regulates ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 content in Jurkat T cells.	We exploited Jurkat leukemia T cell clone E6-1 as a model of Trichostatin A (TSA) effect on cellular levels of ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 molecules involved in the signal transduction pathway from T cell receptor to nucleus. Using reverse transcription real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting analysis we observed that TSA resulted in ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 transcript and protein down-regulation in Jurkat leukemia T cells. We also found that TSA reduced half-life of ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 mRNAs from 4.8, 3.5, and 4.8 to approximately 2.3, 1.9 and 1.7 h, respectively. Employing the protein biosynthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, we demonstrated the involvement of RNase and/or mRNA stabilization protein in ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 mRNAs stabilization. The effect of TSA on ZAP-70, LAT and SLP-76 content in T cells confirms an immunosuppressive effect by TSA, and the usefulness of this histone deacetylase inhibitor in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
T cell-directed therapies: lessons learned and future prospects.	Agents interfering with T cell function are therapeutic mainstays for various autoimmune diseases and for transplant approaches to organ failure. The understanding of T cell biology has blossomed since the development of most agents now in use. Here we discuss T cell-specific agents now in use, others recently added to the therapeutic armamentarium and promising agents being investigated in clinical and preclinical studies. In addition, we reflect on the risks and benefits involved in the testing of such agents clinically, with examples of agents that have successfully been used in the clinic and agents that failed to reach therapeutic use.
Regulation of reactive oxygen species by Atm is essential for proper response to DNA double-strand breaks in lymphocytes.	The ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (ATM) gene plays a pivotal role in the maintenance of genomic stability. Although it has been recently shown that antioxidative agents inhibited lymphomagenesis in Atm(-/-) mice, the mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we intensively investigated the roles of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in phenotypes of Atm(-/-) mice. Reduction of ROS by the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) prevented the emergence of senescent phenotypes in Atm(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts, hypersensitivity to total body irradiation, and thymic lymphomagenesis in Atm(-/-) mice. To understand the mechanisms for prevention of lymphomagenesis, we analyzed development of pretumor lymphocytes in Atm(-/-) mice. Impairment of Ig class switch recombination seen in Atm(-/-) mice was mitigated by NAC, indicating that ROS elevation leads to abnormal response to programmed double-strand breaks in vivo. Significantly, in vivo administration of NAC to Atm(-/-) mice restored normal T cell development and inhibited aberrant V(D)J recombination. We conclude that Atm-mediated ROS regulation is essential for proper DNA recombination, preventing immunodeficiency, and lymphomagenesis.
The critical role of protein kinase C-theta in Fas/Fas ligand-mediated apoptosis.	A functional immune system not only requires rapid expansion of antigenic specific T cells, but also requires efficient deletion of clonally expanded T cells to avoid accumulation of T cells. Fas/Fas ligand (FasL)-mediated apoptosis plays a critical role in the deletion of activated peripheral T cells, which is clearly demonstrated by superantigen-induced expansion and subsequent deletion of T cells. In this study, we show that in the absence of protein kinase C-theta (PKC-theta), superantigen (staphylococcal enterotoxin B)-induced deletion of Vbeta8(+) CD4(+) T cells was defective in PKC-theta(-/-) mice. In response to staphylococcal enterotoxin B challenge, up-regulation of FasL, but not Fas, was significantly reduced in PKC-theta(-/-) mice. PKC-theta is thus required for maximum up-regulation of FasL in vivo. We further show that stimulation of FasL expression depends on PKC-theta-mediated activation of NF-AT pathway. In addition, PKC-theta(-/-) T cells displayed resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis as well as activation-induced cell death (AICD). In the absence of PKC-theta, Fas-induced activation of apoptotic molecules such as caspase-8, caspase-3, and Bid was not efficient. However, AICD as well as Fas-mediated apoptosis of PKC-theta(-/-) T cells were restored in the presence of high concentration of IL-2, a critical factor required for potentiating T cells for AICD. PKC-theta is thus required for promoting FasL expression and for potentiating Fas-mediated apoptosis.
Protectin D1 is generated in asthma and dampens airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness.	Protectins are newly identified natural chemical mediators that counter leukocyte activation to promote resolution of inflammation. In this study, we provide the first evidence for protectin D1 (PD1, 10R,17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,13E,15Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid) formation from docosahexaenoic acid in human asthma in vivo and PD1 counterregulatory actions in allergic airway inflammation. PD1 and 17S-hydroxy-docosahexaenoic acid were present in exhaled breath condensates from healthy subjects. Of interest, levels of PD1 were significantly lower in exhaled breath condensates from subjects with asthma exacerbations. PD1 was also present in extracts of murine lungs from both control animals and those sensitized and aerosol challenged with allergen. When PD1 was administered before aeroallergen challenge, airway eosinophil and T lymphocyte recruitment were decreased, as were airway mucus, levels of specific proinflammatory mediators, including IL-13, cysteinyl leukotrienes, and PGD(2), and airway hyperresponsiveness to inhaled methacholine. Of interest, PD1 treatment after aeroallergen challenge markedly accelerated the resolution of airway inflammation. Together, these findings provide evidence for endogenous PD1 as a pivotal counterregulatory signal in allergic airway inflammation and point to new therapeutic strategies for modulating inflammation in asthmatic lung.
Biologic therapies in rheumatology: lessons learned, future directions.	During the past decade biologic therapies such as monoclonal antibodies and fusion proteins have revolutionized the management of rheumatic disease. By targeting key cytokines and immune cells biologics have provided more specific therapeutic interventions with less immunosuppression. Clinical use, however, has revealed that their theoretical simplicity hides a more complex reality. Efficacy, toxicity and even pharmacodynamic effects can deviate from those predicted, as poignantly illustrated by the catastrophic effects witnessed during the first-into-human administration of TGN1412. This review summarizes lessons gleaned from practical experience and discusses how these can inform future discovery and development of new biologic therapies for rheumatology.
Lead, a major environmental pollutant, is immunomodulatory by its differential effects on CD4+ T cells subsets.	Studies were undertaken to address the necessity of B-T cell contact for the enhancement of B cell differentiation caused by the heavy metal lead (Pb). Membrane segregated cultures were used so that the influences of direct B-T cell contact and T cell factors on B cell differentiation could be independently evaluated. B-T cell contact was not absolutely required for Pb's enhancement of B cell maturation to antibody forming cells (AFCs); however, enhancement of the AFC response by Pb was optimal when B-T cell interactions were allowed. These results were corroborated by use of anti-L3T4 (mouse CD4) to block CD4+ T cell-B cell interaction. Blockade of B-T cell contact with anti-L3T4 did not inhibit the enhancement of the AFC response by Pb. Additional experimentation showed that Pb enhanced the AFC response and Ig production in the presence of antigen-specific T cell help, suggesting that Pb enhances B cell differentiation by augmenting cognate help rather than by inducing a response to Pb-altered-self. In studies employing antigen-specific T cell clones, Pb was found to differentially modulate antigen presentation to TH1 versus TH2 T cell clones, in that TH1 activation was inhibited and TH2 activation was enhanced by Pb.
Effects of pentoxifylline on differentiation, maturation, and function of human CD14+ monocyte-derived dendritic cells.	Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a nonspecific phosphodiesterase inhibitor which has potent immunoregulatory and antiinflammatory effects. Although its immunomodulation property has been recognized, it is not clear whether PTX could affect dendritic cells (DCs), the most efficient antigen-presenting cells. The purpose of this study was to determine whether PTX could suppress DC differentiation, maturation, and its associated functions. Immature DCs (iDCs) were generated from human peripheral blood mononuclear cell CD14+ monocytes cultured with granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor and interleukin-4 for 5 days. PTX concentration-dependently suppressed the expression of iDC differentiation markers including CD54, CD80, CD86, and human leukocyte antigen-DR. In addition, PTX also inhibited DC maturation marker CD83 expression after stimulating DCs with lipopolysaccharide. Furthermore, PTX inhibited the antigen-uptake ability of DCs when tested by fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran endocytosis assay. PTX significantly reduced the production of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma in mature DCs (mDCs). Consequently, PTX-treated mDCs showed a reduced activity of mDC-induced T-cell allostimulation and proliferation by mixed-lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. Therefore, PTX significantly inhibits CD14+ monocyte-derived DC differentiation, maturation, antigen-uptake ability of iDCs, and antigen-presentation ability of mDCs possibly due to the suppression of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma production. These results suggested that inhibitory effects of PTX on DCs may contribute its antiinflammatory and immunoregulatory functions.
Soluble mannosylated myelin peptide inhibits the encephalitogenicity of autoreactive T cells during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	We have previously shown that immunization with a mannosylated myelin peptide in complete adjuvant induces tolerance instead of disease in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a rodent model for multiple sclerosis. In this report we demonstrate that treatment with a soluble mannosylated epitope of proteolipid protein (M-PLP(139-151)) significantly inhibits disease mediated by autoreactive myelin-specific T cells during EAE. Treatment with M-PLP(139-151), applied in different EAE models, significantly reduced the incidence of disease and the severity of clinical symptoms. Delayed-type hypersensitivity responses were abolished after peptide treatment, emphasizing the impact on peripheral T-cell reactivity. Histological analysis of spinal cord tissue from mice treated with M-PLP(139-151) revealed the presence of only few macrophages and T cells. Moreover, little expression of interferon-gamma, interleukin-23, or major histocompatibility complex class II antigen was detected. Immune modulation by M-PLP(139-151) was primarily antigen-specific because an irrelevant mannosylated peptide showed no significant effect on delayed-type hypersensitivity responses or on the course of EAE. Therefore, mannosylated antigens may represent a novel therapeutic approach for antigen-specific modulation of autoreactive T cells in vivo.
T cell vaccination does not induce resistance to experimental autoimmune neuritis.	The effectiveness of T cell vaccination was analyzed in experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) that can be induced by immunization with bovine P2 protein or a peptide representing the amino acids 53-78 of P2 (P2 53-78). Lewis rats were vaccinated with glutaraldehyde-fixed lymph node cells which had been primed in vivo with P2 protein or P2 53-78 and had been activated in vitro with concanavalin A. Vaccinated animals were not protected from EAN induced by immunization with P2 protein in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). In a second set of experiments Lewis rats were vaccinated with irradiated or fixed P2-specific T cell lines of different specificity and neuritogenicity and were subsequently challenged with P2 53-78 in CFA. Likewise, severity of P2 53-78-induced EAN was not different between naive and T line-vaccinated groups. In spleens of vaccinated animals a substantial suppressive activity was demonstrated which was positively correlated with a weak anti-ergotypic response of these spleen cells. The fact that development of actively induced EAN was not prevented or even mitigated by T cell vaccination, in spite of an apparent vaccination-induced response to and on T lymphocytes, suggests that protection from disease is not readily induced in every autoimmune disease model.
Autoantigen-induced self lysis of human myelin basic protein-specific T lymphocytes.	Cytotoxic T cells reactive with myelin basic protein (MBP) may be isolated from most human subjects. Since activated T cells express major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens, we assessed whether MBP-specific, CD4+ T cells could present MBP or synthetic MBP peptides to themselves and whether this provoked self lysis. We examined two MBP-specific cell lines and eight T cell clones recognizing four different MBP epitopes. All T cell populations presented MBP as well as synthetic peptides to themselves eliciting self lysis of the T cell clones. CD4+ T cell populations recognizing another central nervous system (CNS) protein, proteolipid protein (PLP), or the recall antigen, Candida, did not exhibit this antigen-induced, autocytolytic activity. However, activated, PLP-reactive T cells were susceptible to lysis by cytotoxic MBP-specific T cells in the presence of MBP. These results suggest that antigen-induced self lysis of activated human T cells might limit an autoimmune response within a target organ independent of other immunoregulatory mechanisms.
Relative susceptibility of SJL/J and B10.S mice to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis is correlated with high and low responsiveness to myelin basic protein.	SJL/J mice are highly susceptible to actively induced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), whereas B10.S mice are not. Yet both strains share the H-2s major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotype. In order to help determine the cellular basis for the disparate susceptibility to EAE, the antigen-specific in vitro proliferative responses of lymph node (LN) T cells from SJL/J and B10.S mice primed with porcine myelin basic protein (MBP) were assessed. The results indicated that SJL/J mice were high responders and B10.S mice were low responders to both porcine and murine MBP, as demonstrated by limiting dilution analyses and cloning efficiency analysis of MBP-reactive T cells. The low response of B10.S mice to MBP was not due to elevated suppressor cell activity or to a discernible defect in antigen-presenting cell activity. Rather, it appeared to be due to a paucity (or defect in function) of high affinity MBP-reactive T cells in B10.S as compared to SJL/J mice. This difference in MBP responsiveness must, by necessity, be linked to non-MHC background genes. Therefore, assuming that the relative number of MBP-reactive T cells parallels that of EAE-effector T cells in SJL/J and B10.S mice (as separate in vivo studies indicate), the present results suggest that differences in the T cell repertoire for the encephalitogenic determinants of MBP may contribute significantly to the observed differences in antigen reactivity, and may relate to differences in susceptibility to EAE.
IL-8 and IDO expression by human gingival fibroblasts via TLRs.	Human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs), a predominant cell type in tooth-supporting structure, are presently recognized for their active role in the innate immune response. They produce a variety of inflammatory cytokines in response to microbial components such as LPS from the key periodontal pathogen, Porphyromonas gingivalis. In this study, we demonstrated that HGFs expressed mRNA of TLRs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9, but not TLRs 7, 8, and 10. Stimulation of HGFs with highly purified TLR2 ligand (P. gingivalis LPS), TLR3 ligand (poly(I:C)), TLR4 ligand (Escherichia coli LPS), and TLR5 ligand (Salmonella typhimurium flagellin) led to expression of IL-8 and IDO. A potent TLR 9 ligand, CpG oligodeoxynucleotide 2006 had no effect, although HGFs showed a detectable TLR9 mRNA expression. No significant enhancement on IL-8 or IDO expression was observed when HGFs were stimulated with various combinations of TLR ligands. Surprisingly, the TLR9 ligand CpG oligodeoxynucleotide 2006 was able to specifically inhibit poly(I:C)-induced IL-8 and IDO expression. TNF-alpha enhanced TLR ligand-induced IL-8 production in HGFs, whereas IFN-gamma enhanced TLR ligand-induced IDO expression. HGF production of IDO in response to P. gingivalis LPS, IFN-gamma, or the two in combination inhibited T cell proliferation in MLRs. The observed T cell inhibition could be reversed by addition of either 1-methyl-dl-tryptophan or l-tryptophan. Our results suggest an important role of HGFs not only in orchestrating the innate immune response, but also in dampening potentially harmful hyperactive inflammation in periodontal tissue.
Induction of members of the IL-8/NAP-1 gene family in human T lymphocytes is suppressed by cyclosporin A.	Human members of a family of structurally related cytokines, which play a role as effectors of inflammation, were analyzed for their expression and regulation in T lymphocytes. Members of this gene family include Platelet Basic Protein (PBP); Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4); IL-8/NAP-1; IP-10, a gamma interferon induced protein; GRO; pAT 464 and pAT 744. In resting T lymphocytes the RNAs of the individual genes could not be detected, but all genes were induced upon stimulation with PHA or with PHA/PMA. The induction of five genes was blocked by the immunosuppresive drug cyclosporin A (CSA), which appears to affect initial events in T cell activation. This expression in T lymphocytes, especially the sensitivity to CSA, indicates a common immunmodulatory role of these structural related proteins.
HLA typing using IL-2 activated T lymphocytes: usefulness in pediatric candidates for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Following a preliminary study in healthy blood donors, we have performed serological HLA-A, B, C, DR and DQ typing using recombinant IL-2 activated T lymphocytes (IL-2.aTLs) in pediatric candidates for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. In such patients, it is often difficult to obtain the quantity of lymphocytes required for HLA typing, particularly for class II typing using B lymphocytes, considering the timing of sampling and the volume of blood to be collected. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were activated and expanded with IL-2 until a sufficient number of IL-2.aTLs of good viability were available for the typing. In the first 10 cases, analyses of surface markers (CD2, CD20, CD25, CD36, HLA-DR and HLA-DQ, CD2/HLA-DR: two color) of IL-2.aTLs were done using flow cytometry at the time of HLA typing and indicated that IL-2.aTLs expressed HLA-DR and DQ antigens sufficient for evaluation. A small number (less than 10(6] of fresh or cryopreserved PBMCs, even those containing leukemic blast cells, were sufficient to induce and expand IL-2.aTLs for HLA typing. To date we have been able to successfully HLA-A, B, C, DR and DQ type 20/20 pediatric candidates. The HLA antigens identified on the patients' IL-2.aTLs were confirmed by a family study.
The immunosuppressive agent FK506 inhibits in vitro expression of membrane-bound and soluble interleukin-2 receptors on resting but not on activated human lymphocytes.	FK506 is a recently introduced immunosuppressive agent synthesised by the microorganism Streptomyces tskubaensis. It has been found to be more potent than Cyclosporin A in inhibiting T cell activation. We investigated its effects on the expression of membrane bound as well as soluble interleukin-2 receptors on human lymphocytes. The membrane-bound IL-2 receptor expression was inhibited by FK506 in resting lymphocytes at a concentration of 1 pmol/l. At 10 nmol/l no further inhibition was seen. In activated lymphocytes FK506 exerted no inhibitory effect on the IL-2 receptor expression. The release of soluble IL-2 receptor showed a pronounced decline in the concentration interval between 10 pmol/l and 0.1 nmol/l. Above a concentration of 10 nmol/l, no further decrease was seen. In activated lymphocytes the expression of soluble IL-2 receptors was unaffected by FK506 incubated up to 72 h. Pretreatment of the lymphocytes with the compound did not further depress the expression of the membrane-bound or the soluble receptor. Our results also indicate that the expression of the membrane-bound receptor is more sensitive to the drug than the soluble form of the receptor.
Gene expression and generation of CD28-CD8 T cells mediated by interleukin 15.	Accumulation of CD28(-)CD8 T cells that are defective in response to antigenic stimulation is a hallmark of age-associated decline in T cell function. However, the underlying mechanism of this age-associated change is not fully understood. We recently analyzed the global gene expression profiles of CD8 T cell subsets from nai ve to memory (CD28(+) to CD28(-)) cells and the growth of CD28(+) and CD28(-)CD8 memory T cells in response to homeostatic cytokine interleukin 15 (IL-15). At the gene expression level, one of the most striking changes is the altered expression of some co-stimulatory receptors and various NK cell receptors in CD28(-)CD8 T cells. Furthermore, CD28(-)CD8 T cells appear to have a normal proliferation response to IL-15 in vitro. Interestingly, IL-15 is also capable of inducing stable loss of CD28 expression in actively dividing CD28(+)CD8 memory T cells. Together, these findings provide the gene expression features of CD28(-)CD8 T cells that differ from their CD28(+) counterparts and suggest a possible role of IL-15 in the increase of CD28(-)CD8 T cells that occurs with aging.
beta-Agonist enhances type 2 T-cell survival and accumulation.	Neurohumoral modulation of immune system function is poorly understood. beta-Adrenergic receptor ligands (beta-agonists) subserve numerous physiologic processes but also function as pathogenic or therapeutic agents in numerous diseases with inflammatory components.
Direct evidence for immunomodulatory properties of ribavirin on T-cell reactivity to hepatitis C virus.	An understanding of ribavirin's beneficial effects on treatment outcome in chronic hepatitis C (CH-C) may help to develop new treatment approaches. Here we investigated whether ribavirin directly affects HCV-specific reactivity of CD4+T-lymphocytes from patients with CH-C.
Persistence of lamivudine-sensitive HIV-1 quasispecies in the presence of lamivudine in vitro and in vivo.	The establishment of persistent infection is one of the major obstacles facing the eradication of HIV-1. To improve our understanding of the mechanisms of viral persistence, we investigated the fate of defined viral quasispecies under conditions that might favor their eradication. We retrospectively analyzed changes in viral populations in HIV-1-infected patients treated with zidovudine/lamivudine and subsequently failing therapy within months in the years 1996 to 1997. Furthermore, we developed an in vitro model based on simultaneous infection of T cells with 2 or more different viral variants. Changes in minority quasispecies of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant HIV-1 variants based on lamivudine and the corresponding lamivudine-resistant viruses carrying the M184I or M184V mutation were investigated using an allele-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction assay. We demonstrate that lamivudine-sensitive and lamivudine-resistant HIV-1 variants are able to persist despite highly unfavorable conditions in vivo and in vitro and that selective advantages of viral variants can vary depending on the complexity of other simultaneously replicating viral variants.
Immunologic effects of perinatal exposure to dioxins, PCBs and organochlorine pesticides in Japanese infants.	Effects of perinatal exposure to dioxins, PCBs and organochlorine pesticides on lymphocyte subsets were investigated in the peripheral blood from 101 Japanese infants with approximately 10 months of age. Perinatal exposure to these organochlorine compounds were estimated by their contamination levels in the breast milk of the mothers. Lymphocyte subsets such as CD16+, HLA-DR+, CD4+, CD4+8+, CD8+, CD3+ and CD20+ cells in peripheral venous blood were assessed in a subgroup of 92 infants. Greater exposures to HCE, chlordane and dioxins were significantly associated with the increase in the percentages of CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes and CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratios, respectively. In addition, higher HCH exposure was also associated with a decrease in the percentage of HLA-DR+ T lymphocytes. Furthermore effects of dioxins, DDT and PCBs on the percentage of CD16+ T lymphocyte were more pronounced by the combined exposure of dioxins and PCBs or by the combined exposure of DDT and PCBs. Effects of HCE on the percentages of CD8+ T lymphocyte were also more pronounced by the combined exposure of HCE and chlordane. In conclusion, our study suggests that greater exposures to dioxins, PCBs and organochlorine pesticides determined in this study (except dieldrin) influence the immune system of Japanese infant, although the clinical significance of these changes is uncertain.
Beneficial effects of CCR1 blockade on the progression of chronic renal allograft damage.	The biology of chemokines and their receptors have been linked to the development of chronic allograft damage. Effects of CCR1 antagonist BX 471 were studied in a Fischer to Lewis renal transplantation model at days 10, 21 and 42 after transplantation. BX 471 treatment did not effectively reduce signs of acute rejection at day 10 but significantly improved allograft function and morphology at day 21 posttransplantation. When therapy was initiated on day 21 after transplantation, glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis were significantly inhibited by day 42 posttransplantation. Parallel decrease in infiltrating and proliferating mononuclear cells (ED1, CD8 and Ki67) was observed in treated allografts. Expression of acute phase reactive and proinflammatory genes (HO-1, osteopontin) and molecules associated with fibrosis (PAI-1, TGF-beta1, biglycan) was downregulated at day 21; reduced collagen deposition was observed, parallel to a significant lower number of alpha-SMA+ interstitial myofibroblasts. In situ hybridization demonstrated that biglycan expression was reduced following CCR1 blockade in interstitium of treated allografts. CCR1 antagonism was found to inhibit CCL5-induced secretion of biglycan by macrophages in vitro. CCR1 blockade significantly inhibited development and progression of chronic allograft damage. CCR1 antagonists may represent a therapeutic option for chronic inflammation and fibrosis in renal grafts.
Inhibition of heat shock protein-90 modulates multiple functions required for survival of human T-cell leukemia virus type I-infected T-cell lines and adult T-cell leukemia cells.	The molecular chaperone Hsp90 is involved in the stabilization and conformational maturation of many signaling proteins that are deregulated in cancers. The geldanamycin derivative 17-AAG is currently tested in clinical trials and known to inhibit the function of Hsp90 and promote the proteasomal degradation of its misfolded client proteins. ATL is a fatal malignancy of T lymphocytes caused by HTLV-I infection and remains incurable. Since Hsp90 is overexpressed in HTLV-I-infected T-cell lines and primary ATL cells, we analyzed the effects of 17-AAG on cell survival, apoptosis and expression of signal transduction proteins. HTLV-I-infected T-cell lines and primary ATL cells were significantly more sensitive to 17-AAG in cell survival assays than normal PBMCs. 17-AAG induced the inhibition of cell cycle and apoptosis. These effects could be mediated by inactivation of NF-kappaB, AP-1 and PI3K/Akt pathways, as well as reduction of expression of proteins involved in the G1-S cell cycle transition and apoptosis. Proteasome inhibition interfered with 17-AAG-mediated signaling proteins depletion. Collectively, our results indicate that 17-AAG suppresses ATL cell survival through, at least in part, destabilization of several client proteins and suggest that 17-AAG is a potentially useful chemotherapeutic agent for ATL.
Intrinsic ability of GM+IL-4 but not Flt3L-induced rat dendritic cells to promote allogeneic T cell hyporesponsiveness.	The influence of GM+IL-4 and Flt3 ligand (FL) on phenotype and function of BM-derived DC from Lewis rats was investigated. GM+IL-4-induced DC, despite expression of CD80/CD86, were less stimulatory than FL-induced DC that expressed low CD80/CD86 and were efficient stimulators of allogeneic T cells. GM+IL-4 DC were CD11b+ OX62lo, whereas FL DC were CD11blo OX62+. Following activation, GM+IL-4 DC produced IL-10 and IL-6, but no IL-12p70, and were resistant to further maturation. FL DC produced IL-12p70, IFN-alpha/beta, IL-10 and IL-6 and underwent maturation. Repeated stimulation of T cells with GM+IL-4 DC inhibited proliferation, cytokine production and induced early T cell apoptosis. FL DC-activated T cells produced large amounts of IFN-gamma/IL-10 and exhibited late T cell apoptosis/necrosis. In vivo, GM+IL-4 DC induced alloAg-specific hyporesponsiveness following T cell restimulation. These results demonstrate that GM+IL-4 DC display intrinsic regulatory properties, inducing passive-cell-death in T cells with potential for inactivation/regulation of alloreactive T cells in transplantation.
Bioactive lignans from Peperomia heyneana.	Four new compounds, including three secolignans (1-3) and one tetrahydrofuran lignan (4), were isolated from the petroleum ether and EtOAc fractions of Peperomia heyneana. These compounds were accompanied by eight known secolignans, one known tetrahydrofuran lignan, one known cyclohexenone, and one known amide. The structures were elucidated mainly by 1D and 2D NMR and MS experiments, and the relative configurations by NOE techniques. Five compounds were evaluated for their inhibitory activities against HIV-1 in infected C8166 cells.
Long- and short-term changes in the neuroimmune-endocrine parameters following inhalation exposures of F344 rats to low-dose sarin.	Inhalation of subclinical doses of sarin suppresses the antibody-forming cell (AFC) response, T-cell mitogenesis, and serum corticosterone (CORT) levels, and high doses of sarin cause lung inflammation. However, the duration of these changes is not known. In these studies, rats were exposed to a subclinical dose of sarin (0.4 mg/m3/h/day) for 1 or 5 days, and immune and inflammatory parameters were assayed up to 8 weeks before sarin exposure. Our results showed that the effects of a 5-day sarin exposure on the AFC response and T-cell receptor (TCR)-mediated Ca2+ response disappeared within 2-4 weeks after sarin exposure, whereas the CORT and adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) levels remained significantly decreased. Pretreatment of rats with chlorisondamine attenuated the effects of sarin on the AFC and the TCR-mediated Ca2+ response, implicating the autonomic nervous system (ANS) in the sarin-induced changes in T-cell function. Moreover, exposure to a single or five repeated subclinical doses of sarin upregulated the mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the lung, which is associated with the activation of NFkappaB in bronchoalveolar lavage cells. These effects were lost within 2 weeks of sarin inhalation. Our results suggest that while sarin-induced changes in T cells and cytokine gene expression were short lived, suppression of CORT and ACTH levels were relatively long lived and might represent biomarkers of sarin exposure. Moreover, while the effects of sarin on T-cell function were regulated by the ANS, the decreased CORT levels by sarin might result from its effects on the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Evaluation of catechol-induced DNA damage in human lymphocytes: a comparison between freshly isolated lymphocytes and T-lymphocytes from extended-term cultures.	Extended-term cultures of proliferating human T-lymphocytes (ETC) may be a practical alternative to freshly isolated non-proliferating peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) when studying genotoxicity in vitro. To investigate if the pattern of DNA damage differs between the two in vitro systems, catechol-induced DNA damage was evaluated in PBL and ETC derived from the same blood sample, using three different donors. DNA damage was monitored using the comet assay. Whereas 3 h of exposure to 0.5 mM catechol was found to be without DNA damaging effects, 3 mM was found to induce significant damage both in the PBL and the ETC (the latter being clearly less sensitive). The level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was also measured in the ETC using the fluorescent probe carboxy-H2DCFA. ROS was found to be considerably increased both at 0.5 and 3 mM catechol. The demonstrated difference in sensitivity towards catechol-induced DNA damage between PBL and ETC may be due to their different proliferative status, but despite this difference both in vitro systems were able to identify catechol as a DNA damaging agent at the same concentration.
Influence of heat stress on human monocyte-derived dendritic cell functions with immunotherapeutic potential for antitumor vaccines.	Mild heat stress can modulate the activities of immune cells, including dendritic cells (DC) and theoretically, would constitute an innovative approach capable of enhancing the antitumor functions of DC. Therefore, we tested the effects of mild heat stress on the physiology and viability of human monocyte-derived DC, the major type of DC used in tumor immunotherapy trials. We first designed a heat-stress protocol consisting of repetitive, sublethal heat shocks throughout the generation of DC. Using this protocol, we observed that heat stress did not perturb the morphology and the phenotype of immature or mature DC or the capacities of immature DC to uptake antigens efficiently. It is noteworthy that in response to heat stress, mature DC produced higher levels of IL-12p70 and TNF-alpha, which are two cytokines involved in the stimulation of inflammatory reaction, whereas IL-10 production remained low. After heat-stress exposure, mature DC have the full ability to stimulate naive T cells with Th1 response polarization (high IFN-gamma and low IL-4 production) in an allogeneic MLR. It is interesting that heat stress enhanced the migratory capacities of DC in response to MIP-3beta/CCL19. Finally, heat stress partly protected DC from apoptosis induced by cytokine withdrawal. Overall, these findings validate the feasibility of improving immune response by heating human monocyte-derived DC and provide a strong rationale for using mild heat stress in combination with DC vaccination to increase antitumor response.
Arzanol, an anti-inflammatory and anti-HIV-1 phloroglucinol alpha-Pyrone from Helichrysum italicum ssp. microphyllum.	An acetone extract of Helichrysum italicum ssp. microphyllum afforded the phloroglucinol alpha-pyrone arzanol (1a) as a potent NF-kappaB inhibitor. Arzanol is identical with homoarenol (2a), whose structure should be revised. The phloroglucinol-type structure of arzanol and the 1,2,4-trihydroxyphenyl-type structure of the base-induced fragmentation product of homoarenol could be reconciled in light of a retro-Fries-type fragmentation that triggers a change of the hydroxylation pattern of the aromatic moiety. On the basis of these findings, the structure of arenol, the major constituent of the clinically useful antibiotic arenarin, should be revised from 2b to 1b, solving a long-standing puzzle over its biogenetic derivation. An alpha-pyrone (micropyrone, 7), the monoterpene rac-E-omega-oleoyloxylinalol (10), four known tremetones (9a-d), and the dimeric pyrone helipyrone (8) were also obtained. Arzanol inhibited HIV-1 replication in T cells and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in LPS-stimulated primary monocytes, qualifying as a novel plant-derived anti-inflammatory and antiviral chemotype worth further investigation.
Measurement of plasma or urinary metabolites and Hprt mutant frequencies following inhalation exposure of mice and rats to 3-butene-1,2-diol.	Studies were performed to determine if the detoxification pathway of 1,3-butadiene (BD) through 3-butene-1,2-diol (BD-diol) is a major contributor to mutagenicity in BD-exposed mice and rats. First, female and male mice and rats (4-5 weeks old) were exposed by nose-only for 6h to 0, 62.5, 200, 625, or 1250 ppm BD or to 0, 6, 18, 24, or 36 ppm BD-diol primarily to establish BD and BD-diol exposure concentrations that yielded similar plasma levels of BD-diol, and then animals were exposed in inhalation chambers for 4 weeks to BD-diol to determine the mutagenic potency estimates for the same exposure levels and to compare these estimates to those reported for BD-exposed female mice and rats where comparable blood levels of BD-diol were achieved. Measurements of plasma levels of BD-diol (via GC/MS methodology) showed that (i) BD-diol accumulated in a sub-linear fashion during single 6-h exposures to >200 ppm BD; (ii) BD-diol accumulated in a linear fashion during single or repeated exposures to 6-18 ppm BD and then in a sub-linear fashion with increasing levels of BD-diol exposure; and (iii) exposures of mice and rats to 18 ppm BD-diol were equivalent to those produced by 200 ppm BD exposures (with exposures to 36 ppm BD-diol yielding plasma levels approximately 25% of those produced by 625 ppm BD exposures). Measurements of Hprt mutant frequencies (via the T cell cloning assay) showed that repeated exposures to 18 and 36 ppm BD-diol were significantly mutagenic in mice and rats. The resulting data indicated that BD-diol derived metabolites (especially, 1,2-dihydroxy-3,4-epoxybutane) have a narrow range of mutagenic effects confined to high-level BD (>or=200 ppm) exposures, and are responsible for nearly all of the mutagenic response in the rat and for a substantial portion of the mutagenic response in the mouse following high-level BD exposures.
Immunobiologics in the treatment of psoriasis.	The pathogenesis of various inflammatory cutaneous diseases such as psoriasis, atopic dermatitis and mycosis fungoides relies greatly on the abnormal function of T cells. Fundamental knowledge of the role of T cells in the cutaneous immune response has led to the development and production of biologic molecules designed to block T cell function at various steps, specifically activation (i.e. alefacept, efalizumab), trafficking into inflamed skin (i.e. efalizumab) and effector function under cytokine control (i.e. etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab, and anti-IL-12 antibody). We review the immune abnormalities and the role of T cells in psoriasis, and the recent biologic therapies, which share the common mission to hinder T cell activity in inflammatory diseases. An advantage from the preciseness of these biologic therapies is the potential limit of non-specific and potentially devastating organ toxicity, which commonly plagues other systemic therapies.
Soluble CTLA-4 in autoimmune thyroid diseases: relationship with clinical status and possible role in the immune response dysregulation.	CTLA-4 molecule, expressed by activated T and B lymphocytes, transduces an inhibitory signal. Increasing evidence showed CTLA-4 gene as an important susceptibility locus for autoimmune endocrinopathies and other autoimmune disorders. The aim is to evaluate the augmented sCTLA-4 serum levels in different autoimmune thyroid diseases when compared with normal donors or with non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism and to investigate the functional activities and suggest the possible pathogenetic role of sCTLA-4. We demonstrate the presence of a soluble form of CTLA-4 in 59/90 sera from patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases (both Graves' disease and autoimmune thyroiditis). sCTLA-4 levels were not related to specific clinical manifestations, such as clinical thyroid status (hypo- or hyperthyroidism), circulating thyroid hormones, or other clinical features (ophthalmopathy). sCTLA-4 production does not seem to be affected by disease evolution during time. We showed that sCTLA-4 from sera of patients with thyroid autoimmunity is able to bind its physiological ligands CD80/CD86 and displays functional activities on different in vitro systems (T-cell proliferation induced by specific soluble antigens, bi-directional mixed lymphocyte reaction). In conclusion, we demonstrate an increment of sCTLA-4 in serum of patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases. Its possible pathogenetic role during autoimmune processes can be speculated: sCTLA-4 can specifically inhibit the early T-cell activation by blocking the interaction of CD80/CD86 with the co-stimulatory receptor CD28. Conversely, higher levels of sCTLA-4 could compete with membrane-bound CTLA-4 for CD80/CD86, in later T lymphocytes activation phase, causing a reduction of inhibitory signaling.
Inhibition of TGF-beta signaling by IL-15: a new role for IL-15 in the loss of immune homeostasis in celiac disease.	Interleukin (IL)-15 delivers signals that drive chronic inflammation in several diseases, including celiac disease. Smad3-transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling is instrumental to counteract proinflammatory signals and maintain immune homeostasis. Our goal has been to investigate why the proinflammatory effects of IL-15 cannot be efficiently controlled by TGF-beta in celiac disease.
Triiodothyronine suppresses humoral immunity but not T-cell-mediated immune response in incubating female eiders (Somateria mollissima).	Immunity is believed to share limited resources with other physiological functions and this may partly account for the fitness costs of reproduction. Previous studies have shown that the acquired immunity of female common eiders (Somateria mollissima) is suppressed during the incubation fast. To save energy, triiodothyronine (T(3)) is adaptively decreased during fasting in most bird species, despite T(3) levels are maintained throughout incubation in female eiders. However, the relationship between thyroid hormones and the immune system is not fully understood. The current study aimed to determine the endocrine mechanisms that underlie immunosuppression in incubating female eiders. To this end we assessed the effects of exogenous T(3) on both components of the acquired immune system in 42 free-ranging incubating birds. Half of the females were implanted with T(3) pellets, while the other half sham implanted served as control. We measured variations in the immunoglobulin index, the T-cell-mediated immune response, body mass, and plasma parameters in both groups before and after manipulation. T(3) levels in implanted females were four times higher and mass loss was 40% greater than in control females. Implanted females also showed an 18% decrease in the immunoglobulin index, while the T-cell-mediated immune response was not significantly affected by the treatment. Finally, the treatment did not induce any significant changes in corticosterone levels. Our study shows that exogenous T(3) decreased only one component of the acquired immune system. We suggest that the immunosuppressive effect of T(3) could be mediated by its effects on body fat reserves. Further experiments are required to determine: (1) the relationship between adiposity and immune function, (2) the adaptive significance of immunosuppression during incubation in eiders.
The impact of impurities in synthetic peptides on the outcome of T-cell stimulation assays.	Protein-spanning peptide pools have proven valuable as a screening tool for detecting T-lymphocyte responses against a wide range of proteins. We have used this approach in our search for T cells reactive to the onconeural protein HuD. We found positive responses in only 3 of 127 individuals; however, these were highly unusual in that the same class I HLA alleles and peptides were involved. These T-cell responses were not confirmed when peptides re-synthesized by the same manufacturer with similar and with higher purity levels were used. Our observations indicated that these T-cell responses were not directed against the designed HuD peptides. Here, we report on (i) comparisons of the peptide batches analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization Fourier transform mass spectrometry (MALDI-FTMS) that did--and did not--elicit T-cell responses and (ii) a detailed analysis of the various by-products of peptides, irrespective of T-cell assay outcome. We found numerous differences between the peptide batches, such as omissions of amino acids in the primary structure of the peptides. Furthermore, some batches revealed strong interactions with calcium ions or contained sulfated peptides. Our data reveal that different batches from the same peptide may contain artefacts that influence the outcome of HLA-restricted T-cell response assays.
Fludarabine induces apoptosis of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1-infected T cells via inhibition of the nuclear factor-kappaB signal pathway.	Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is a highly aggressive disease in which the human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) has been recognized as the etiologic agent. Fludarabine is a purine analog that has demonstrated significant activity in B-cell malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia and indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This study explored the effects of fludarabine on HTLV-1-infected T cells (MT-1, -2, -4 and HUT102). Fludarabine induced growth arrest and apoptosis of these cells, as measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylithiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay, cell cycle analysis and annexin V staining. Moreover, exposure of HTLV-1-infected T cells to fludarabine decreased the levels of X-inhibitor of apoptosis protein in conjunction with inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)/DNA-binding activity, as measured by Western blot analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift and reporter gene assays, respectively. Further studies found that fludarabine accumulated NF-kappaB and inhibitory subunit of NF-kappaB in cytosole in conjunction with downregulation of NF-kappaB in nucleus, suggesting that fludarabine blocked nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. Taken together, fludarabine may be useful for treatment of individuals with ATL and other types of cancer in which NF-kappaB plays a role.
Histamine H4 receptor agonists have more activities than H4 agonism in antigen-specific human T-cell responses.	Histamine not only mediates immediate allergic reactions, it also regulates cellular immune responses. H4R is the most recently identified histamine receptor (HR). In the present study, we examined the in vitro effect of histamine and H4R agonists on the responses of human T cells to purified protein derivative from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (PPD) and to Cry j1, the major allergen of Cryptomeria japonica pollen. Dimaprit, clobenpropit and clozapine, which are H4R agonists, dose-dependently blocked both PPD-induced interferon-gamma and Cry j1-induced interleukin-5 production by both peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and antigen-specific T-cell lines. However, the addition of thioperamide, an H3R/H4R antagonist, as well as a mixture of d-chlropheniramine, famotidine and thioperamide, did not reverse the inhibition. Pretreatment of PBMCs with SQ22536 and 8-bromoadenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rp-isomer, had varying abilities to reverse the inhibitory effects of H4R agonists, except for clobenpropit. Moreover, the addition of H4R agonists induced annexin-V expression on PBMCs, especially in CD19(+) and CD4(+) cells. cDNA microarray analysis revealed that, among 16,600 genes tested, increased expression following treatment with clozapine was seen in 0 x 8% of the genes, whereas decreased expression was seen in 3 x 0% of the genes. These results suggest that H4R agonists inhibit antigen-specific human T-cell responses, although H4R does not appear to be important for this effect. In addition, the present study indicated that there may be orphan receptors or HR subtypes which can bind dimaprit, clobenpropit and clozapine, and that can exert an inhibitory effect on antigen-specific cellular responses via a cAMP/cAMP-dependent protein kinase-dependent, apoptotic pathway.
Low-dose chemotherapy with leucovorin plus 5-fluorouracil for colorectal cancer can maintain host immunity.	Anticancer drugs may frequently show host immunosuppression. Low-dose chemotherapy has been used for unresectable cancer as a tumor dormancy therapy, and it has been reported that the patients treated this way demonstrated favorable survival without toxicity. In this study, host immunity before and after a low-dose leucovorin plus 5-fluorouracil regimen (low-dose LV/5-FU) and S-1 plus irinotecan regimen (S-1/CPT-11) was compared to assess whether low-dose chemotherapy can maintain host immunity.
Apoptotic cells inhibit LPS-induced cytokine and chemokine production and IFN responses in macrophages.	Apoptosis is a critical process in tissue homeostasis and results in immediate removal of the dying cell by professional phagocytes such as macrophages and dendritic cells. Phagocytosis of apoptotic cells actively suppresses production of proinflammatory growth factors and cytokines. Impaired phagocytosis of apoptotic cells has been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In this study we found that, in addition to suppressing lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of TNF-alpha and IL-6, phagocytosis of apoptotic cells by macrophages suppressed production of the chemokine CXCL10 that is activated by LPS-induced autocrine-acting type I IFNs. Inhibition of cytokine and chemokine production was not universally affected because LPS-induced production of IL-10 and IL-8 was not significantly affected. Apoptotic cells had minimal effects on LPS-induced activation of NF-kappaB and MAPKs, but induced expression of SOCS proteins and substantially suppressed induction of CXCL10 expression by IFN-alpha. In addition to suppressing LPS responses, apoptotic cells inhibited macrophage responses to another major macrophage activator IFN-gamma by attenuating IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 activation and downstream gene expression. These results identify suppressive effects of apoptotic cells on signal transduction, and extend our understanding of the anti-inflammatory effects of apoptotic cells to include suppression of Jak-STAT signaling.
Suppressive effect of a novel water-soluble artemisinin derivative SM905 on T cell activation and proliferation in vitro and in vivo.	Artemisinin and its derivatives exhibit potent immunosuppressive activity. The aim of this study was to investigate the suppressive effects of SM905, a new water-soluble artemisinin derivative, on T lymphocytes both in vitro and in vivo, and explore its potential mode of action. The results showed that SM905 had a high inhibitory activity in Concanavalin A (ConA)-induced splenocyte proliferation and mixed lymphocyte reaction, and a relatively low cytotoxicity in vitro. In ovalbumin-immunized mice, oral administration of SM905 dose-dependently suppressed T cell proliferative response to ovalbumin, and inhibited anti-ovalbumin interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production by T cells. Further studies showed that SM905 inhibited TCR (T cell receptor)/CD3 plus CD28-mediated primary T cell proliferation and cytokine production (IL-2 and IFN-gamma), and exerted an inhibitory action on the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases including extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and the activation of Ras. The results of this study provided experimental evidence that the new artemisinin derivative SM905 had immunosuppressive effects both in vitro and in vivo. SM905 suppressed T cell activation, which was associated with the inhibition of MAP kinases and Ras activation. Our results suggested a potential of SM905 to be developed as a new type agent for treating T cell-mediated immune disorder.
Anti-TB activity of Evodia elleryana bark extract.	An ethyl acetate extract of bark from Evodia elleryana produced significant growth inhibition of Mycobacterium tuberculosis at concentrations only minimally inhibitory to human T cells. The crude extract yielded 95% inhibition of TB at 50 microg/ml. The crude extract yielded 29% growth inhibition of human T-cells in culture at that concentration.
T lymphocytes as targets of statins: molecular mechanisms and therapeutic perspectives.	Statins are cholesterol-lowering drugs extensively used for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular events related to hypercholesterolemia. Because of their capacity to inhibit HMG-CoA reductase, statins also block the production of isoprenoids required for post-translational modification of proteins such as Ras superfamily GTPases, which are master regulators in signaling pathways triggered by surface receptors. As such, statins have pleiotropic effects on many cell types. In the immune system, statins harbor strong anti-inflammatory properties, which result from their capacity to interfere with the activation of proinflammatory cells, including macrophages and endothelial cells. More recently, T-lymphocytes have been identified as cellular targets of statins. Here we shall review recent findings, which document an inhibitory activity of statins on T-cell activation, proliferation, differentiation to Th1 cells and migration across the blood-brain barrier. The therapeutic perspectives of these findings, based on animal models and ongoing clinical trials, will also be discussed.
Superantigens and toxic shock syndrome. A report of three cases treated with intravenous gammaglobulin]	The superantigens cause a massive polyclonal activation of T-cells, producing an immense liberation of proinflamatory cytokines, which induces the clinical data of toxic shock syndrome. In international studies the administration of polyclonal intravenous gammaglobulin has been observed to diminish the mortality 50 to 20%. But at the present it has not been reported in Mexico the clinical effectiveness of this therapeutic modality in toxic shock syndrome. We report three cases of toxic shock syndrome treated with gammaglobulin intravenous, and we describe their favorable clinical evolution.
FTY720 for treatment of ischemia-reperfusion injury following complete renal ischemia; impact on long-term survival and T-lymphocyte tissue infiltration.	Organ dysfunction due to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common problem in transplant, liver, trauma, and heart surgery. I/R injury is mediated by upregulated expression of endothelial cell surface adhesion molecules and subsequent adhesion and activation of circulating leukocytes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of an intraoperative administration of FTY720 in an animal model with controlled bilateral warm kidney ischemia compared to steroids or placebo application.
In vitro heparan sulfate modulates the immune responses of normal and tumor-bearing mice.	Tumor-bearing (TB) patients and TB animal models show a wide array of immunologic deficits. Heparan sulfate (HS) has been shown to both improve immune cell proliferative responses and to induce Th1 cytokine responses in normal animals. These HS effects, if harnessed, would be of great benefit to TB patients. The present study focused on replicating previous HS-induced Th1 and proliferative response results as well as extrapolating the beneficial immunomodulatory effects to an experimental model derived from TB animals of Lewis lung cell carcinoma. Lewis Lung Carcinoma (LLC)-TB and control mouse splenocytes were assessed for proliferation and cytokine response to concanavalin A (Con A) with 1 and 3 days' exposure to HS. Our results found HS treatment stimulated splenocyte proliferation to Con A in control mice splenocytes after 1 and 3 days of treatment, although HS proliferative effects were not seen in unfractionated TB cultures. Furthermore, cytokine studies revealed normal splenocytes treated with HS had increased levels of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines. Surprisingly, HS treated TB-splenocytes showed suppressed cytokine levels. Of particular interest was the decreased levels of the Th2 cytokine IL-4 in TB-derived samples. In conclusion, we found that HS did show immune-modulator properties in both normal and TB environments. Our studies reinforced the possibility that HS could one day be used as an immune-modulating therapeutic agent.
Alefacept in corticosteroid refractory graft versus host disease: early results indicate promising activity.	Steroid refractory graft versus host disease (GVHD) presents a significant therapeutic challenge due to the limited efficacy and safety of second-line treatments. Three patients with extensively pretreated, refractory GVHD were treated with a targeted anti-T-cell agent, alefacept, and demonstrated rapid and clinically significant improvement in their GVHD, facilitating tapering of corticosteroids. The pathological and immunohistochemical findings of GVHD also improved, validating our clinical impression. These preliminary findings indicate that alefacept may have beneficial activity in GVHD warranting further study.
Pulsed dye laser versus treatment with calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate for localized refractory plaque psoriasis: effects on T-cell infiltration, epidermal proliferation and keratinization.	Selective photothermolysis of diseased capillaries by pulsed dye laser (PDL) treatment has been described as a mechanism for long-lasting clearance of psoriatic plaques.
Immunoregulatory abnormalities of T cells and hyperreactivity of B cells in the in vitro immune response in pristane-induced lupus mice.	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is characterized by overactive B cells that differentiate into autoantibody-forming cells, aberrant T cell function that provides helping B cells produce autoantibodies, and overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines. However, immunodysregulation in lupus pathogenensis remains incomplete. We examined mitogen-stimulated production of proinflammatory cytokines, cell proliferation, T cell activation, and T cell apoptosis in vitro in pristane-induced lupus BALB/c mice compared to normal mice. LPS-stimulated production of IL-6 and IL-10 by splenocytes and macrophages from pristane-induced lupus mice were remarkably up-regulated compared to normal mice, whereas production of macrophage TNF-alpha was significantly down-regulated. Moreover, in vitro production of IL-2, IL-6, IL-10 and IFN-gamma by Con A-stimulated splenocytes, cell proliferation in LPS- or Con A-stimulated- thymocytes and splenocytes, and expression of CD69+CD4+ T cells in Con A-stimulated splenocytes were greatly increased in cells derived from pristane-induced lupus mice compared to normal mice. In addition, splenic T cells and CD4+ T cells in thymocytes from pristane-induced lupus mice were more resistant than nonautoimmune normal cells to Con A-induced apoptosis. Our findings indicate that immunoregulatory abnormalities of T cells and hyperreactivity of B cells in the in vitro immune responses in pristane-induced lupus mice may explain some of lupus pathogenesis.
15-deoxy-Delta12,14-prostaglandin J2 negatively regulates rankl gene expression in activated T lymphocytes: role of NF-kappaB and early growth response transcription factors.	Receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL) and its receptor RANK are cell surface proteins abundantly expressed in bone and lymphoid tissues, whose interaction triggers different signaling pathways leading to activation and differentiation of osteoclasts, pivotal actors of the normal bone remodeling cycle. Moreover, RANKL may act as an immunomodulator, representing an important dendritic cell survival factor produced by activated T cells. A large body of research has shown that not only does the RANKL/RANK system regulate the physiology of bone development but also plays an important pathological role in bone destruction mediated by inflammatory disorders or bone metastatic tumors. 15-Deoxy-Delta(12,14)-PGJ(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) is a cyclopentenone-type PG endowed with anti-inflammatory properties and produced by different cells, including those of the immune system. Although 15d-PGJ(2) has been studied as a natural ligand of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma nuclear receptor, relevant peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma-independent actions mediated by this prostanoid have been described. In this study, we describe the effect of 15d-PGJ(2) on the expression of the rankl gene in T lymphocytes. We show that 15d-PGJ(2) inhibits rankl mRNA expression, protein, and rankl promoter activity by mechanisms mediated by its chemically reactive cyclopentenone moiety. Our data also indicate that 15d-PGJ(2) represses rankl activation by interfering with the expression and/or activity of the transcription factors NF-kappaB, early growth response-2, and early growth response-3, whose altered balancing and transactivation may contribute for the repression of this gene. These results place rankl as a novel molecular target for the different immunoregulatory activities mediated by 15d-PGJ(2). The physiological and pharmacological implications of these observations are discussed.
T cell activation by antibody-like immunoreceptors: the position of the binding epitope within the target molecule determines the efficiency of activation of redirected T cells.	Recombinant TCRs confer specificity to T cells and trigger their activation. Receptors with Ab-derived binding domains have the advantages of MHC-independent Ag recognition and of targeting a variety of chemically different molecules. We explored the impact of the position of a defined epitope within the target molecule on the efficacy of receptor-mediated T cell activation. T cells were grafted with recombinant immunoreceptors that recognize either the membrane distal N or the proximal A3 domain of carcinoembryonic Ag (CEA). Upon binding to isolated, solid-phase immobilized CEA, receptor-mediated T cell activation correlates with the binding efficiency, irrespectively, of the epitope position. Upon binding to CEA expressed on the cell membrane, in contrast, the A3 epitope mediates more efficiently T cell activation than the N epitope, although the N epitope is bound with higher affinity. The CEA N epitope when expressed in a more membrane proximal position, however, activated receptor grafted T cells with higher efficiency than in the distal position. The position of the targeted epitope within the molecule obviously has major impact on the efficacy of T cell activation independently of the binding efficiency of the immunoreceptor.
Morphine reciprocally regulates IL-10 and IL-12 production by monocyte-derived human dendritic cells and enhances T cell activation.	We evaluated the effect of morphine on human dendritic cells (DCs). Interestingly, immature DCs were found to express all 3 (mu, kappa, delta) opioid receptors on the cell surface. Chronic morphine treatment (10(-8) to 10(-12) M) during the development of DCs from monocytes augmented LPS-induced upregulation of HLA-DR, CD86, CD80, and CD83 and increased the T cell stimulatory capacity of DCs, which could be inhibited by naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist. The change in surface phenotype was paralleled by a p38 MAPK-dependent decrease in IL-10 and increase in IL-12 secretion. Our data indicate that morphine exerts an immunostimulatory effect by modulating LPS-induced DC maturation.
Dimethylfumarate inhibits nuclear binding of nuclear factor kappaB but not of nuclear factor of activated T cells and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta in activated human T cells.	Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder in which T-cell-mediated immune responses are thought to play a prominent role. Fumaric acid esters (FAEs) have proved to be an effective systemic treatment for psoriasis. The FAE dimethylfumarate (DMF) strongly suppresses chemokine production in human keratinocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Additionally, it has been demonstrated that the nuclear translocation of the activated transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) is inhibited in human endothelial cells and fibroblasts activated with tumour necrosis factor-alpha. The NF-kappaB pathway plays a major role in regulating inflammatory cytokine production as well as in cell differentiation and apoptosis. T-cell survival is also dependent on the activation of NF-kappaB and it has been demonstrated in vitro that DMF is an inducer of apoptosis in human T cells. The influence of FAEs on the expression of nuclear transcription factors in T cells has not yet been investigated.
14-3-3 proteins bind both filamin and alphaLbeta2 integrin in activated T cells.	Engagement of the T cell receptor (TCR) initiates intracellular signaling cascades that result in T cell activation, differentiation, acquisition of effector functions, or apoptosis. The signals from the TCR are coupled to distal signaling pathways by adapter proteins leading to dramatic changes in the cytoskeleton, transcription, and activation of integrins, which mediate adhesion. LFA-1 (leukocyte function-associated antigen-1) integrin (alphaLbeta2 or CD11a/CD18) plays an important role in adhesion, for example, by linking extracellular ligands to the actin cytoskeleton. The intracellular tails of integrins contain several phosphorylation sites, making them candidate-binding partners for 14-3-3 proteins, which are adaptor proteins that bind to phosphorylated ligands. In a screen for 14-3-3 binding partners in T cells, we identified both beta2 integrins and filamin. The integrin beta2 chain binds to 14-3-3 proteins through phosphorylated Thr758 after TCR ligation and this association regulates integrin-mediated cell spreading, which is necessary for adhesion. Here, we show that filamin associates with 14-3-3 proteins in activated T cells. 14-3-3 association with T cell membrane and cytoskeleton proteins after cell stimulation may mediate numerous T cell functions.
Blockade of the interleukin-21/interleukin-21 receptor pathway ameliorates disease in animal models of rheumatoid arthritis.	Interleukin-21 (IL-21) is a T cell-derived cytokine that modulates T cell, B cell, and natural killer cell responses. In this study, the effects of blocking IL-21 were examined in 2 rodent models of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to determine whether IL-21 contributes to their pathologic processes.
Combined effects of mycotoxin mixtures on human T cell function.	Combined effects of mycotoxin mixtures are of major concern due to the widespread occurrence of human exposure to mixtures. Owing to the lack of sufficient mixture data regarding the human immune function, the aim of this study was to specify, evaluate and predict the combined effects of mycotoxin mixtures upon the functional activity of immune cells. Therefore, a well established model for immunotoxic studies using stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was applied. To predict the combined effect of the mixture the concepts of concentration addition and response addition were used. Comparable to the individual mycotoxins the mixture suppressed the cytokine production in a concentration-dependent manner. The mixture effect was stronger than the effects caused by the toxins applied singly. The response addition concept described the mixture data within their experimental uncertainty. The in vitro test model presented here was practical to detect and quantify combined effects. Low and weak effect concentrations of mycotoxins may cause strong inhibitory effects on immune functions when occurring together. The experimental design using the concepts of concentration addition and response addition was suitable for predicting the combined effects of mycotoxin mixtures in functional in vitro assays.
The structure-activity relationship of the series of non-peptide small antagonists for p56lck SH2 domain.	The antagonists for the SH2 domain are regarded as novel therapeutic candidates for cancer, autoimmune disease, and chronic inflammatory disease. Previously, we identified rosmarinic acid (alpha-o-caffeoyl-3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-lactic acid; RosA) from Prunella vulgaris as an antagonist for the p56lck SH2 domain by screening natural products. RosA not containing phosphotyrosine surrogate had a considerable inhibitory activity for T-cell antigen receptor (TCR)-induced interleukin (IL)-2 expression, and subsequent T-cell proliferation in vitro cell assay. To investigate the structure-activity relationship of RosA and to identify a novel p56lck SH2 antagonist with more potent in vitro T-cell inhibitory activity, we synthesized several analogs of RosA by using rational design. All synthesized compounds were tested in vitro binding activity for the SH2 domain and in vitro T-cell inhibitory activity. All four hydroxyl groups of RosA were essential for binding with the p56lck SH2 domain and T-cell inhibitory activity. Unexpectedly, conformationally less constrained analogs 4 and 9 showed a more potent binding affinity for the SH2 domain than that of RosA, and chirality of the analog did not play an important role in protein binding. We successfully identified several RosA analogs with a more potent T-cell inhibitory activity than that of RosA. Overall results revealed important structural requirements of the p56lck SH2 antagonists for in vitro T-cell inhibitory activity and in vitro protein binding activity.
Novel cationic lipophilic peptides for oligodeoxynucleotide delivery.	In search of new oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) delivery agents, we evaluated novel peptides derived from core peptide H-GLRILLLKV-OH (CP). CP is a fragment designed from the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) alpha-chain transmembrane sequence. CP was able to enter cells including T-cells and inhibited interleukin-2 (IL-2) production. To examine the effect of increased lipophilicity on cellular uptake and activity of CP, a lipoamino acid (2-aminododecanoic acid) was incorporated into peptide CP resulting in 2-aminodecanoyl-CP (LP). The toxicity of CP and LP was assessed by measuring the haemolytic activity. Neither compound caused any haemolysis of red blood cells. We have also compared the biological activities of the CP and LP. Using a T-cell antigen presentation assay, the more lipophilic LP caused greater inhibition of IL-2 production than the parent CP in the antigen stimulated T-cells. The LP also showed increased permeability than CP in the Caco-2 cell assay. We utilised the enhanced cell permeability property of LP in oligodeoxynucleotide ODN1 delivery. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) suggested that CP and LP complex with ODN1 in a 12:1 (CP:ODN1) and 15:1 (LP:ODN1) ratio. These complexes were then transfected into human retinal pigment epithelial cells. The level of transfection was measured by the decreased production of the protein human vascular endothelial growth factor (hVEGF). The results revealed greater transfection efficiency for both CP and LP (47%, 55% more inhibition) compared to commercially available transfection agent cytofectin GSV. These results suggested that the CP and particularly its lipophilic analogue LP have the potential to be used as oligodeoxynucleotide delivery systems.
Effects of arsenic trioxide on apoptosis of peripheral T-lymphocytes from asthmatic patients and normal subjects in vitro]	To study the effects of arsenic trioxide on apoptosis of peripheral T-lymphocytes from asthmatic patients and normal subjects in vitro.
Myocardial autoimmune response induced by myosin activate T lymphocytes]	To investigate whether myosin activated-T lymphocytes induce myocardial autoimmune response.
Pleiotropic effects of statins: stabilization of the vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque?	Acute coronary syndromes (ACS), i.e. unstable angina and myocardial infarction, are the leading causes of death in developed countries and developing countries alike. Lipid lowering intervention studies have demonstrated a 30% risk reduction in recurrent cardiovascular events and death, despite only modest improvement in angiographic stenosis. This discrepancy suggested that cholesterol lowering by statins may lead to stabilization of vulnerable plaques rather than reducing stenosis per s. The predominant effect of statins is to lower lipid levels by inhibiting cholesterol biosynthesis. Besides the lipid lowering effects, statins have also been shown to modulate the inflammatory status and improve endothelial function amongst others, commonly referred to as "pleiotropic effects". In the present review we will discuss different determinants which lead to plaque vulnerability and subsequently we will expand on the plaque stabilizing or "pleiotropic" effects of statin treatment.
Biological therapy of arthritis and systemic autoimmune diseases]	The concept of biological therapy arises from the specific targeting of a factor, e.g. a cytokine, involved in the inflammatory cascade. Thus, biologicals disrupt the complex network of autoimmune-inflammatory events. Today, rheumatoid arthritis is a prototype disease in this context as most compounds have been tried in this disease. Recently, biological therapy has been introduced to the treatment of other diseases including various forms of arthritis, such as ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as systemic autoimmune disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, inflammatory myopathies and Sjogren's syndrome. Anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) agents play a central role in biological therapy as these agents have been successfully tried in most of these diseases. When seeking for specific targets for biologicals, pathogenic factors of the disease, such as Th1 or Th2 type responses, should be evaluated. Some mostly T-cell mediated diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, polymyositis, polyarticular juvenile arthritis respond well to anti-TNF agents and T cell targeting, while others, such as lupus, Sjogren's syndrome, dermatomyositis may rather respond to anti-B cell biologicals. In this review, authors discuss the most recent advances in the biological therapy of arthritis and systemic autoimmune diseases including issues of efficacy and safety.
Inhibitory effects of fermented nutraceuticals on NO production and T cell proliferation in juvenile atopic dermatitis.	As the most common inflammatory skin disease in children, atopic dermatitis begins in infancy or early childhood, with about 90% of cases appearing under age of 5. The prevalence of atopic dermatitis has rapidly increased among children in recent years. Physiological and psychological abnormalities and social impact are also well known in children with atopic dermatitis and in their families. Atopic dermatitis not only seriously affects the quality of life of the children and their families but also is leading chronic disease in children with hard-to-cure.Recently, we found that the fermented extract of several plants had considerable potential to treat juvenile atopic dermatitis. This extract therefore is now under investigation to find the underlying immunopathological mechanism by determining its inhibitory effects on nitric oxide (NO) release and T cell proliferation. The fermented extract dose dependently blocked NO production. In particular, the inhibitory effect of the extract was maximized up until 80-fold dilution of the original extract. This extract did not induce cytotoxic effects up to 80-fold dilution. Interestingly, doses between 320- and 80-fold dilution significantly protected cell death mediated by LPS-induced NO production. The fermented extract also significantly suppressed CD3 induced T cell proliferation in a dose dependent manner.
Zotarolimus, a novel sirolimus analogue with potent anti-proliferative activity on coronary smooth muscle cells and reduced potential for systemic immunosuppression.	Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an immunosuppressant used in preventing allograft rejection and in drug-eluting stents to prevent restenosis after angioplasty. Zotarolimus, an analogue of sirolimus, was designed to have a shorter in vivo half-life. Zotarolimus was found to be mechanistically similar to sirolimus in having high-affinity binding to the immunophilin FKBP12 and comparable potency for inhibiting in vitro proliferation of both human and rat T cells. Rat pharmacokinetic studies with intravenous dosing demonstrated terminal elimination half-lives of 9.4 hours and 14.0 hours for zotarolimus and sirolimus, respectively. Given orally, T1/2 values were 7.9 hours and 33.4 hours, respectively. Consistent with its shorter duration, zotarolimus showed a corresponding and statistically significant 4-fold reduction in potency for systemic immunosuppression in 3 rat disease models. Pharmacokinetic studies in cynomolgus monkey underpredicted the half-life difference between zotarolimus and sirolimus apparent from recent clinical data. In vitro inhibition of human coronary artery smooth muscle cell proliferation by zotarolimus was comparable to sirolimus. Drug-eluting stents for local delivery of zotarolimus to the vessel wall of coronary arteries are in clinical development. The pharmacological profile of zotarolimus suggests it may be advantageous for preventing restenosis with a reduced potential for causing systemic immunosuppression or other side effects.
Mice depleted of alphabeta but not gammadelta T cells are resistant to mortality caused by cecal ligation and puncture.	The present study was undertaken to determine whether the mice depleted of alphabeta or gammadelta T cells show resistance to acute polymicrobial sepsis caused by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). T-cell receptor beta knockout (betaTCRKO) and T-cell receptor delta knockout (deltaTCRKO) mice were used. An additional group of mice was treated with an antibody against the alphabeta T-cell receptor to induce alphabeta T-cell depletion; a subset of alphabeta T cell-deficient mice was also treated with anti-asialoGM1 to deplete natural killer (NK) cells. The mice underwent CLP and were monitored for survival, temperature, acid-base balance, bacterial counts, and cytokine production. The betaTCRKO mice and the wild-type mice treated with anti-beta T-cell receptor (anti-TCRbeta) antibody showed improved survival after CLP compared with wild-type mice. The treatment of alphabeta T cell-deficient mice with anti-asialoGM1further improved survival after CLP, especially when the mice were treated with imipenem. The improved survival observed in alphabeta T cell-deficient mice was associated with less hypothermia, improved acid-base balance, and decreased production of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL) 6 and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) 2. Compared with wild-type controls, the overall survival was not improved in deltaTCRKO mice. The concentrations of IL-6 and MIP-2 in plasma and cytokine mRNA expression in tissues were not significantly different between wild-type and deltaTCRKO mice. These studies indicate that mice depleted of alphabeta but not of gammadelta T cells are resistant to mortality in an acutely lethal model of CLP. The depletion of NK cells caused further survival benefit in alphabeta T cell-deficient mice. These findings suggest that alphabeta T and NK cells mediate or facilitate CLP-induced inflammatory injury.
Influence of signal transduction modulators on the secretory function of T lymphocytes in severely scalded mice and its mechanism]	To investigate the influence of various signal transduction modulators on the splenic T lymphocytes secretion of IL-2 and IL-10 in severely scalded mice, and to explore its mechanism.
Clinical responders to antiviral therapy of chronic HCV infection show elevated antiviral CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses.	Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is characterized by attenuated antiviral T-cell responses, making their detection and characterization a technological challenge. The role and the dynamics of antiviral T-cell responses during antiviral therapy are incompletely understood. To assess HCV-specific T-cell responses during antiviral therapy of genotype-1-infected patients, we adopted a flow cytometric approach to comprehensively evaluate virus-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell proliferative responses against pools of genotype- and subtype-specific serial, overlapping peptides spanning the entire virus. Studies in cross-sectional cohorts of treatment-nave (TN) patients , early and sustained clinical virological responders (EVRs and SVRs) or clinical nonresponders (NRs) showed that this proliferative assay had significantly greater sensitivity in detecting HCV-specific responses, compared with ex vivo cytokine flow cytometry. At the same time, it could be used to detect and quantify both CD4+ and CD8+ responses simultaneously. EVRs and SVRs showed significantly more HCV-specific CD4+ and CD8+ responses, compared with either TN patients or NRs. This corresponded to a higher magnitude of responses as well as a greater breadth of reactivity with higher responses against the core/E1, NS3, NS4 and NS5b regions of the virus. Interestingly, both clinical responders and NRs showed higher cytomegalovirus-specific CD4+ responses, compared with TN patients. These results demonstrate an association between clinically successful antiviral therapy and enhanced magnitude and breadth of antiviral responses. Moreover, the study demonstrates the clinical relevance of this flow cytometric proliferation assay system, in combination with an unbiased library of viral peptides, in evaluating the biology of antiviral T-cell responses during infection and therapy.
Administration of the stress protein gp96 prolongs rat cardiac allograft survival, modifies rejection-associated inflammatory events, and induces a state of peripheral T-cell hyporesponsiveness.	High-dose gp96 has been shown to inhibit experimental autoimmune disease by a mechanism that appears to involve immunoregulatory CD4+ T cells. This study tested the hypothesis that high-dose gp96 administration modifies allograft rejection and associated inflammatory events. Wistar cardiac allografts were transplanted into Lewis recipient rats and graft function was monitored daily by palpation. Intradermal administration of gp96 purified from Wistar rat livers (100 microg) at the time of transplantation and 3 days later significantly prolonged allograft survival (14 vs 8 days in phosphate-buffered saline [PBS]-treated recipients; P = 0.009). Rejected allografts from gp96-treated animals were significantly less enlarged than allografts from their PBS-treated counterparts (2.8 vs 4.3 g; P < 0.004). Gp96 was also effective when administered on days 1 and 8 (13 vs 7 days), but not if it was derived from recipient (Lewis) liver tissue or administered on days 0, 3, and 6. In parallel studies, CD3+ T cells from gp96-treated untransplanted animals secreted less interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, and interferon (IFN)-gamma after in vitro polyclonal stimulation than CD3+ T cells from PBS-treated animals. Gp96 administration might therefore influence the induction of immunity to coencountered antigenic challenges and inflammatory events by inducing what appears to be a state of peripheral T-cell hyporesponsiveness.
Down-regulation of IL-7Ralpha expression in human T cells via DNA methylation.	IL-7 is critical for the development and survival of T cells. Recently, we found two subsets of human CD8+ T cells expressing IL-7Ralpha(high) and IL-7Ralpha(low) with different cell survival responses to IL-7. Although these CD8+ T cell subsets have differential IL-7Ralpha gene expression, the mechanism for this is unknown. DNA methylation is an important gene regulatory mechanism and is associated with the inactivation of gene expression. Thus, we investigated a role for DNA methylation in differentially regulating IL-7Ralpha gene expression in human CD8+ T cells and Jurkat T cells. IL-7Ralpha(high)CD8+ T cells had decreased methylation in the IL-7Ralpha gene promoter compared with IL-7Ralpha(low)CD8+ T cells and Jurkat T cells with low levels of IL-7Ralpha. Treating Jurkat T cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, which reduced DNA methylation, increased IL-7Ralpha expression. Plus, the unmethylated IL-7Ralpha gene promoter construct had higher levels of promoter activity than the methylated one as measured by a luciferase reporter assay. These findings suggest that DNA methylation is involved in regulating IL-7Ralpha expression in T cells via affecting IL-7Ralpha gene promoter activity, and that the methylation of this gene promoter could be a potential target for modifying IL-7-mediated T cell development and survival.
Reduction of lupus nephritis in MRL/lpr mice by a bacterial superantigen treatment.	The effects of biweekly intravenous injections of Staphylococcus Enterotoxin B (SEB) into autoimmune MRL-lpr/lpr (MRL/lpr) mice were investigated. Rather than causing the expansion of V beta 8+ T cells, SEB administration resulted in the reduction V beta 8+, CD4-CD8- "double-negative" (DN) T cells. This was shown by FACS analysis as this putative pathogenic population was diminished in both spleen and lymph node. The symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in MRL/lpr, which include high titers of anti-DNA antibodies and circulating immune complexes and proteinuria, were reduced in SEB-treated mice in a dose-dependent manner. The clinical parameters of SLE in MRL/lpr, which include lymph node hyperplasia and necrotic vasculitis, were suppressed in 50-micrograms SEB-treated mice. T cells bearing V beta 6 T cell receptor, which does not interact with SEB, were not reduced with SEB administration. Thus, disease suppression was associated with a specific reduction in the number of V beta 8+, DN T cells. These results implicate a possible therapeutic role of superantigen-based immunotherapy in V beta-restricted, T cell-dominated clinical syndromes.
Apoptosis inhibition in T cells triggers the expression of proinflammatory cytokines--implications for the CNS.	Stimulation of death receptors such as CD95 or TNF-R1 results in rapid onset of apoptosis. Here we show that inhibition of death receptor-induced apoptosis by the broad range caspase inhibitor ZVAD causes a switch from apoptotic to proinflammatory signaling. In previous studies we have reported that caspase inhibitors induce expression of various proinflammatory cytokines in CD95-stimulated primary T cells, such as TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and GM-CSF. In this study we provide further evidence for the proinflammatory activity of CD95. Stimulation of CD95 by agonistic antibodies (7C11) resulted in expression of IL-2 in primary T cells, which was further enhanced when caspase activity was blocked by ZVAD. Moreover, CD95 triggered expression of IL-4 and IL-8 when caspase activity was inhibited, but not in the absence of ZVAD. Our findings are of significant importance for the CNS as changes in the cytokine pattern in the periphery affects the entry of various immune cells into the brain. Moreover, invading activated T cells can also directly influence the cytokine profile within the brain, triggering signaling cascades that eventually lead to neuronal cell death. The use of caspase inhibitors to prevent apoptotic cell death should be carefully evaluated in the management of systemic and CNS diseases.
The synthetic triterpenoid, CDDO, suppresses alloreactive T cell responses and reduces murine early acute graft-versus-host disease mortality.	Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) still remains one of the life-threatening complications following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Immunomodulation of alloreactive donor T cell responses, as well as cytokine secretion is a potential therapeutic approach for the prevention of aGVHD. The synthetic triterpenoid, CDDO (2-cyano-3, 12-dioxooleana-1, 9-dien-28-oic acid), exhibits potent antitumor activity and has also been shown to mediate anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. We therefore wanted to assess the effects of CDDO on early lethal aGVHD. In this study, we found that CDDO significantly inhibited in vitro mixed lymphocyte responses and preferentially promoted the apoptosis of proliferating but not resting alloreactive T cells. Using a full major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-disparate murine aGVHD model, we found that the administration of CDDO immediately after transplantation significantly decreased liver pathology as determined by histologic assessment and prolonged survival in mice. Importantly, administration of CDDO did not adversely impair donor myeloid reconstitution as determined by peripheral blood cell count and the extent of donor chimerism. These findings indicate that CDDO has a significant immunomodulatory effects in vitro and on early lethal aGVHD development, particularly affecting the liver, in a murine allo-HSCT model.
The impact of chimerism patterns and predonor leukocyte infusion lymphopenia on survival following T cell-depleted reduced intensity conditioned transplants.	Donor leukocyte infusions (DLI) are frequently required following reduced intensity conditioned (RIC) allografts to convert mixed chimerism (MC) to full donor chimerism (FDC). The rationale is to break tolerance and maximize the graft-versus-leukemia responses. We analyzed the impact of chimerism in 125 recipients of RIC (Alemtuzumab containing) transplants. Four patterns of chimerism were seen: (1) always 100% donor chimerism (54%), (2) persisting MC (22%), (3) MC with subsequent development of FDC (18%), (4) lost donor chimerism (6%). Forty-five (36%) patients received DLI. Chimerism patterns and pre-DLI lymphocyte counts (pDLI[Ly]) were significantly associated with DLI responsiveness. Complete disease responses were seen in 6 of 17 (35%) group A patients, 9 of 10 (90%) group C patients, and 0 of 6 group B patients (P = .027), supporting reports that chimerism response is a surrogate marker for disease response. In those with MC, pDLI(Ly) were significantly lower in DLI responsive than nonresponsive patients (P = .044). At 2 years, group C patients had a significant survival advantage (P = .009) compared to all other groups. In conclusion, the chimerism pattern was the best indicator of improved survival in this cohort (ie, MC later converting to FDC). In those with MC, response to DLI therapy was associated with a low lymphocyte count pre-DLI.
Effects of lead exposure on thymic output naive T cells function]	To investigate the levels of T cell receptor rearrangement excision DNA circles (TRECs) within peripheral blood from workers exposed to lead, and thereby to evaluate the number of naive T cells and recent thymic output function.
Effects of cigarette smoke on the immune response. II. Chronic exposure to cigarette smoke inhibits surface immunoglobulin-mediated responses in B cells.	We have previously reported that chronic exposure of rats to cigarette smoke inhibits the antibody-forming cell (AFC) response to both T-dependent and T-independent antigens and may reflect B cell dysfunction. In this communication we extend these studies to show that T cell functions are normal in chronically smoke-exposed rats (SM) as judged by their responses to mitogens and "nominal" or alloantigens. While B cells from SM respond significantly to the B cell mitogen lipopolysaccharide (LPS), they fail to proliferate in response to anti-IgM (anti-mu) or to produce significant AFC response to sheep red blood cells. On the basis of the number of rosettes formed with trinitrophenylated (TNP) horse red blood cells; the frequency of TNP-binding cells (TNP-ABC) in the spleens of SM is comparable to sham control rats. However, the proliferation of TNP-ABC to TNP-Brucella abortus is significantly decreased in SM. These differences in SM B cell responses, i.e., between LPS and anti-mu/antigen, may to be related to the ability of LPS to bypass a portion of the membrane signal transduction cascade. These results suggest that cigarette smoke affects an early step(s) in the antigen-dependent B cell signal transduction pathway.
Addition of cyclophosphamide to T-cell depletion-based nonmyeloablative conditioning allows donor T-cell engraftment and clonal deletion of alloreactive host T-cells after bone marrow transplantation.	Bone marrow (BM) chimerism has been shown to have a beneficial effect on allograft survival. We recently found that production of donor T-cells was highly correlated with induction of tolerance in minimally conditioned chimeras. In the present studies, we demonstrate that nonmyeloablative conditioning and BM cell infusion modulate innate and adaptive host immune responses.
ANCA-associated vasculitis: new options beyond steroids and cytotoxic drugs.	Small vessel vasculitic syndromes--Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangiitis and renal limited vasculitis (which are associated with circulating antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies)--are an important cause of renal failure. Present immunosuppressive regimens that are based on cyclophosphamide have significantly increased survival rates. However, these treatments are toxic, increase the risk of infection and do not cure disease. Therefore, newer approaches are required. Understanding disease pathogenesis has allowed rational use for newer therapies such as rituximab, which depletes B cells. Unfortunately, blockade of promising targets such as TNF-alpha, which was thought to be a pivotal cytokine in inflammation, has not shown benefit in a randomised controlled trial. Better understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease is the key to the development of novel targeted therapies, which are urgently required to improve patient prognosis. Gene therapy with targeted delivery of specific proteins is an exciting future prospect.
A novel peptide-nucleotide dual vaccine of human telomerase reverse transcriptase induces a potent cytotoxic T-cell response in vivo.	Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is highly expressed in over 85% of human cancers, which makes it a broadly applicable molecular target for cancer therapy. Several groups have demonstrated that hTERT can efficiently evoke specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) responses for malignant tumors. In the present study, we developed a novel virus-like particulate peptide-nucleotide dual vaccine (PNDV) of hTERT, which was composed of a low-affinity epitope variant with encoding full-length gene in the same virus-size particulate. We verified the formation of PNDV by DNA retarding assay, DNase I protection assay and transmission electron microscopy, and confirmed its immunogenicity and transfection activities in mammalian cells. Furthermore, in vivo immunization of HLA-A2.1 transgenic mice generated efficient IFN-gamma secretion and hTERT-specific CTLs which are known to cause selective cell death of telomerase positive gastrointestinal cancer cells. To our knowledge, this represents the first report on collocating a low-affinity epitope variant with a full-length hTERT gene for anti-cancer vaccine design. This novel strategy for vaccine design not only enables enhanced immunity to a universal tumor antigen, but also has the potential to generate CTLs effective in telomerase-positive tumor cells of diverse tissue origins. Therefore, our findings bear significant implications for immunotherapy of human cancers.
Inactivation of cadmium induced immunotoxicological alterations in rats by Tunisian montmorillonite clay.	Cadmium (Cd(2+)) is a heavy metal that is dispersed throughout the modern environment mainly as a result of pollution from a variety of sources. The aims of the current study were to investigate the efficacy of purified Tunisian montmorillonite clay (TMC) to adsorb Cd, to test the stability of the resulting complex under different conditions in vitro, and to utilize the rat bioassay as an in vivo model to evaluate the protective role of TMC against Cd-induced toxicity and immunodysfunction. In the in vitro study, three concentrations of TMC (0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 g/l aqueous solution) and three concentrations of CdCl(2) (25, 50 and 100 ppm) were tested. The results of the in vitro study showed that TMC had a high capacity of adsorbing Cd at different concentrations tested. The adsorption ranged from 95.7-100% of the available CdCl(2) in aqueous solutions. The complex TMC-Cd was stable at different pHs at 37 degrees C. The in vivo results indicated that treatment with CdCl(2) (2.5 mg/kg BW) for 2 weeks resulted in a significant decrease in triglycerides, total protein, creatinine, creatine kinase, immunoglobulin profile (Ig A and Ig G) and T-cell sub-types (CD3(+), CD4(+), CD8(+) and CD56(+)). Whereas, it significantly increase serum level of AST, ALT, LDH and induced degenerative changes in pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-1). Rats treated with TMC alone (400, 600 and 800 mg/kg BW) were comparable to the control regarding all the tested parameters. The combined treatment of CdCl(2) and TMC at the lowest dose (400 mg/kg BW) showed a significant improvement of all tested parameters. It could be concluded that TMC was effective to protect against Cd hazards at a dose as low as 400 mg/kg BW. These results supported our hypothesis that TMC tightly-bind and immobilized Cd resulted in reduction of metal bioavailability in the gastrointestinal tract.
Quantitative in vivo comparisons of the Fc gamma receptor-dependent agonist activities of different fucosylation variants of an immunoglobulin G antibody.	Although it has been shown that functions of immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies (Abs) that depend on binding to certain Fc gamma receptors (Fc gamma R) can be influenced by Fc glycan fucosylation, quantitative in vivo analyses comparing the effects of different levels of fucose are still lacking. We used a simple mouse model to compare Fc gamma R-dependent T cell activation induced by different fucosylation variants of a hamster/human IgG1 chimeric version of anti-mouse CD3 monoclonal Ab, 145-2C11 (2C11). Initial studies supported the expectation that this agonist activity by 2C11 was a reflection of Fc gamma R binding, including comparisons of human IgG1 and IgG4 variants of 2C11 that showed the IgG4 to be dramatically less active at inducing T cell activation. Dose-response analyses in mice then showed that a sample of the human IgG1 version of 2C11 Ab in which 40% of the Fc glycans in the population of Ab molecules were fucosylated was 3-5 times more potent than a sample with 90% of its Fc glycans fucosylated. A sample with 10% fucosylation showed the same activity as the 40% fucosylated sample, revealing that complete absence of fucose was not necessary to achieve maximal Fc function in this model. In vitro binding to recombinant mouse Fc gamma Rs by the 2C11 variants revealed interesting relationships between fucose content and receptor affinity, and suggested the involvement of Fc gamma RIV in mediating 2C11 activity in vivo. These analyses showed that low-fucose human IgG1 Abs indeed show greater Fc gamma R-dependent activities in mice, but that Abs with moderate levels of fucose may be just as potent as Abs with very low or no fucose.
Suppressive effects of cannabidiol on antigen-specific antibody production and functional activity of splenocytes in ovalbumin-sensitized BALB/c mice.	Cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabis-based medicines are potential therapeutic agents. Because the immune system has been widely demonstrated to be affected by psychoactive cannabinoids, such as Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, the objective of the present studies is to investigate the immunomodulatory effect of CBD, the major non-psychoactive cannabinoid in marijuana. BALB/c mice were intraperitoneally administered with a single dose of CBD (5-20 mg/kg) prior to ovalbumin (OVA) sensitization, and the serum production of antigen-specific antibodies was measured 7 days post OVA sensitization. The serum level of OVA-specific IgM was significantly attenuated by a high dose of CBD (20 mg/kg), and OVA-specific IgG(1) and IgG(2a) by all 3 doses of CBD. Concordantly, splenocytes of mice administered with CBD (5 or 20 mg/kg) produced less IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-gamma than those of vehicle-treated controls, upon ex vivo stimulation with phorbol ester plus calcium ionophore. Likewise, T-cell mitogen (concanavalin A)-induced proliferation of splenocytes was also markedly suppressed in mice administered with CBD. Furthermore, the observed ex vivo effects of CBD on cytokine production and T-cell proliferation were confirmed in splenocytes directly exposed to CBD (1-8 microM) in vitro, indicating a direct effect by CBD. Taken together, the results demonstrated that CBD markedly suppressed antigen-specific antibody production in OVA-sensitized mice, and suggest that CBD-mediated suppression of humoral immunity could be mediated by the impaired functions of splenocytes.
p-Coumaric acid inhibits indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase expression in murine dendritic cells.	Indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase (IDO), a key enzyme that catalyses the initial and rate-limiting step in the degradation of the tryptophan, is simultaneously expressed in murine dendritic cells and macrophages stimulated with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). In the present study, we investigated whether p-Coumaric acid (CA), which is suggested to exhibit antioxidant properties, could suppress the functional expression of IDO in murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) stimulated with IFN-gamma. Treatment with CA reduced intracellular expression of IDO mRNA and protein levels in IFN-gamma-activated murine BMDCs in vitro and in CD11c(+)CD8alpha(+) DCs of tumor-draining lymph node (TDLN) of tumor-bearing mice in vivo. Consequently, we obtained evidence that CA suppresses the functional activity of IDO, which catalyses oxidative catabolism of tryptophan, and significantly recovers the IDO-dependent T cell suppression. Activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) is important to be express IDO in IFN-gamma-stimulated murine BMDCs. To determine whether these inhibitory effects of CA are associated with the alteration of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and IFN-gamma-inducible, dsRNA-activated serine/threonine protein kinase (PKR), BMDCs were pretreated with various concentrations of CA. We found that CA inhibited the activation of STAT1 in response to IFN-gamma. Based on our results, this study may account that CA could inhibit IDO expression by down-regulation of STAT1 activation in IFN-gamma-stimulated murine DCs.
Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibition limits glomerulonephritis and extends lifespan of mice with systemic lupus.	To examine whether the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor seliciclib ameliorates autoimmune nephritis in (NZB x NZW)F(1) mice.
Genome wide expression profiling of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated with BAY 50-4798, a novel T cell selective interleukin-2 analog.	BAY 50-4798, a novel, engineered form of interleukin (IL)-2, is a selective agonist for the high-affinity IL-2 receptor and induces the proliferation of activated human T cells with potency similar to recombinant IL-2 (rIL-2), but has reduced proliferative activity on natural killer cells and is associated with a diminished secondary cytokine cascade. In the current study, the transcriptional profiles of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) stimulated in vitro with BAY 50-4798 and rIL-2 were compared using Affymetrix microarray technology in combination with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) to determine whether there are quantitative or qualitative differences in the molecular networks activated by these IL-2 analogs. A total of 299 genes were differentially expressed in response to the two IL-2 analogs, with an increase in the number of differences over time. Consistent with the fact that BAY 50-4798 interacts with fewer forms of the IL-2 receptor than rIL-2 to activate fewer cell types, 169 genes were expressed at lower levels in PBMCs cultured with BAY 50-4798 compared with IL-2. These genes were mainly categorized as cytokines and chemokines, and were used to build multiple molecular interaction networks, the most significant of which centered around a subunit of NF-kappaB, which is known to play a pivotal role in inflammation, and was associated with cell death. Of the genes induced in response to BAY 50-4798, only 25% were expressed at lower levels than those induced by rIL-2. Moreover, despite its more selective receptor targeting compared with rIL-2, BAY 50-4798 caused higher levels of expression of 130 genes, which predominantly fell into categories associated with metabolism and transcription. We interpret these results as consistent with the expected transcriptional profile of a mutein engineered and demonstrated to have diminished inflammatory effects yet fully retain selected features of IL-2 activity. In addition to demonstrating that the responses to BAY 50-4798 are characterized by differential expression of genes known to be induced by IL-2, we report for the first time the induction of a significant number of genes not previously reported in the context of IL-2 biology.
Cytotoxicity against human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and T cell lines mediated by anti-T cell immunotoxins in the absence of added potentiator.	Several in vitro assays have indicated that anti-T cell immunotoxins (IT), composed of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) conjugated to ricin A chain (RTA), are maximally effective against T cells only in the presence of potentiators. It was thought that such IT might not be sufficiently cytotoxic to deplete T cells in vivo upon administration to patients. Therefore, we have re-evaluated the in vitro assays and report herein that even with a short exposure time (2 h), the two anti-T cell IT, H65-RTA (anti-CD5 MoAb coupled to RTA) and 4MRTA (anti-CD7 MoAb coupled to RTA30), were specifically cytotoxic for peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in the absence of potentiators. Moreover, as has been reported for IT when tested against T cell lines, prolonging the exposure time of the IT with PBMC from 2 h to as long as 90 h, without added potentiators, enhanced their cytotoxicity from 2- to 40-fold. In contrast, most T cell lines were more sensitive to IT in the presence of potentiator, and IT cytotoxicity was much less enhanced by prolonging the exposure time. Thus, T cell lines may not serve as accurate models to determine the efficacy of IT against PBMC in vitro or in vivo. We conclude that IT-induced cytotoxicity of PBMC can be demonstrated in vitro at pharmacologically achievable concentrations in the absence of added potentiators.
Zearalenone-induced lymphophagocytosis (T cell apoptosis) on the rat's thymus.	The effects of nonsteroidal mycotoxin zearalenone on the lymphoid tissue of thymus in a sense of investigating the subacute toxicity Wistar-albino rats have been examined in the course of the study. We analyzed 42 rats' specimens of both gender, treated with three dosage levels: 0,5; 2 and 4 mg/kg of body weight, after oral submission of the compound, and observed during three different time intervals: 10, 20 and 30 days. Microscopically was semiquantitatively determined lymphophagocytosis (apoptosis) and cortical thymic cellularity. It was percepted statistically significant growth of lymphophagocytosis compared to a dosage (p<0,01), as well as combination of dosage and interval (p<0,001), while gender had no statistically significant influence on tested parameter (p>0,05). Changes in cortical thyme cellularity were not percepted. Effects of applied doses of zearalenone on the lymphoid tissue of thymus were very mild and in correlation with estrogenicity. They are probably the result of interaction with estrogenic receptors.
Effects of ST1571 on the development of dendritic cells derived from bone marrow mononuclear cells in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia]	To investigate the effects of ST1571 on the development of dendritic cells (DC) derived from bone marrow mononuclear cells of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).
Protective effect of puerarin on endothelial dysfunction of heat shock protein 60 induced specific immunity in apolipoprotein E-null mice]	To investigate the influence of endothelial dysfunction induced by inoculated dendritic cells (DCs) loaded heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) in apolipoprotein (Apo) E-null mice, and the effect of Puerarin on it.
Effects of Ginkgo biloba extract on proliferation and apoptosis of T lymphocytes in vitro in rats with asthma]	To explore the partial therapeutic mechanism of Ginkgo Biloba extract (GBE) in treating asthma.
Basiliximab combined with low-dose rabbit anti-human thymocyte globulin: a possible further step toward effective and minimally toxic T cell-targeted therapy in kidney transplantation.	In high-risk kidney transplant recipients, induction therapy with rabbit anti-human thymocyte globulin (RATG) reduces the risk for acute rejection but is associated with significant toxicity, opportunistic infections, and cancer. Using reduced doses of RATG combined with anti-IL-2 antibodies may achieve the same antirejection activity of standard-dose RATG but with a better safety profile. This randomized, open-label study compared the efficacy, tolerability, and costs of low-dose RATG (0.5 mg/kg per d) plus basiliximab (20 mg 4 d apart) versus standard-dose RATG (2 mg/kg per d) in 33 consecutive high-risk renal transplant recipients (living-related transplant recipients, sensitized patients or patients who received another transplant, and patients with delayed graft function) over 6 mo of follow-up. All patients received concomitant therapy with steroids, cyclosporin A, and azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. Seventeen patients received low-dose RATG plus basiliximab, and 16 received standard-dose RATG. Patient (100 versus 100%) and graft (94 versus 100%) survival were comparable in the two groups, but the incidence of fever (17.6 versus 56.5%; P = 0.01), leukopenia (23.5 versus 56.3%; P < 0.05), anemia (29.4 versus 62.5%; P < 0.05), cytomegalovirus reactivations (17.6 versus 56.5%; P = 0.01), the number of transfused units (0.5 +/- 0.9 versus 2.0 +/- 2.4; P < 0.001), and treatment costs (3652 +/- 704 versus 5400 +/- 1960 euro; P = 0.001) were lower with low-dose RATG plus basiliximab than with standard-dose RATG. There was one episode of biopsy-proven acute rejection on low-dose RATG plus basiliximab, and there were two on standard-dose RATG. In renal transplantation, induction therapy with basiliximab plus low-dose RATG effectively prevents acute rejection and is safer and more cost-effective than induction with standard-dose RATG.
Morphine withdrawal dramatically reduces lymphocytes in morphine-dependent macaques.	The immune effects of chronic opiate exposure and/or opiate withdrawal are not well understood. The results of human studies with opiate abusers are variable and may not be able to control for important factors such as subjects' drug histories, health and nutritional status. Nonhuman primate models are necessary to control these important factors. A model of opiate dependence in macaques was developed to study the effects of opiate dependence and withdrawal on measures of immune function. Four pigtailed macaques drank a mixture of morphine (20 mg/kg/session) and orange-flavored drink every 6 h for several months. During stable morphine dependence, absolute numbers of neutrophils, monocytes and lymphocytes did not change relative to pre-morphine levels. However, there was a significant decrease in the absolute number and percentage of natural killer (NK) cells in morphine dependence. Either precipitated withdrawal or abstinence for 24 h resulted in behavioral withdrawal signs in all animals. Absolute lymphocyte counts decreased and absolute netrophil counts increased significantly in withdrawal, relative to levels during morphine dependence. Lymphocyte subset (CD4+, CD8+, CD20+) cells were also decreased in absolute numbers with little change in their percentage distributions. There was, however, a significant increase in the percentage of NK cells in withdrawal relative to levels during morphine dependence. This study demonstrates the usefulness of voluntary oral self-dosing procedures for maintaining morphine dependence in nonhuman primates and demonstrates that the morphine withdrawal syndrome includes large alterations in blood parameters of immune system function, including nearly 50% reduction in numbers of CD4+, CD8+ and CD20+ cells.
Production of synergistic but nonidentical mechanisms of immunosuppression by rapamycin and cyclosporine.	We report that the mechanism of rapamycin (RAP) inhibition is synergistic, but nonidentical, to the mechanism of CsA inhibition. Like CsA, RAP inhibits T cell proliferation following mitogen (PHA) and/or alloantigen (MLR) stimulation. RAP levels of 100, 33, 11, 3.6, 1.2, and less than 1 ng/ml reduced PHA stimulation by 81%, 84%, 81%, 83%, 62%, and 33%, respectively, without cytotoxicity. The RAP concentration required to achieve 50% proliferative inhibition of either mitogen (PHA) or MLR assays revealed an interindividual variability of 5 pg/ml RAP (2 individuals), 1 ng/ml (3 individuals), and 100 ng/ml (2 individuals). Unlike CsA, RAP proliferative inhibition was not restricted to the G0 phase of the cell cycle. Addition of 100, 10, or 1 ng/ml RAP at the onset (G0), or 24 hr following cultivation (G1) similarly inhibited DNA synthesis by 42%, 42%, and 41% compared with 44%, 48%, and 47%, respectively. PWM-stimulated B cell proliferation was primarily RAP-sensitive during the G0 phase of the cell cycle. RAP at 100, 10, and 1 ng/ml inhibited B cell proliferation 46%, 51%, and 50% when added during G0 but only 15%, 20%, and 20% when added during G1. Generation of a cyclosporine-sensitive cytoplasmic activation signal, activator of DNA replication (ADR), was reduced by RAP. RAP reduction did not correlate directly with T cell proliferative inhibition (as does CsA). RAP-induced proliferative inhibition of 40% and 80% resulted in ADR inhibition of 16% and 33%. Proliferative inhibition was synergistically increased when CsA and RAP were used in combination, whereas ADR inhibition was only additively enhanced. Mechanistic disparity between RAP and CsA may potentiate clinical immunosuppression when RAP and CsA are used together.
Expression of human CSF-1 receptor induces CSF-1-dependent proliferation in murine myeloid but not in T-lymphoid cells.	The receptor for human macrophage colony stimulating factor (CSF-1R) was introduced into hematopoietic cell lines of myeloid and T-lymphoid origin, both of which normally do not express the CSF-1R. Infection of an interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent mouse myeloid cell line (FDC-P1) with a high titer retroviral vector expressing the human c-fms c-DNA, enabled CSF-1-dependent proliferation in short-term liquid culture assays as well as in clonal culture systems. CSF-1-dependent cell lines could be established after sorting for CSF-1R positive cells. In contrast to FDC-P1 cells, expression of the CSF-1R in CTLL cells, an IL-2-dependent mouse cytotoxic T-cell line, and in T-cell growth factor III/P40-dependent helper T-cells, ST2/K9.4a2, did not lead to CSF-1-dependent proliferation. These observations lead to the conclusion that ectopically expressed CSF-1R may function on certain myeloid cells where it is normally not expressed, suggesting the presence of signal transduction pathways which can be utilized by that foreign receptor. In contrast, it appears that T-lymphoid cells lack such a signalling mechanism, indicating that quite different modes of transducing mitogenic signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus must have developed during myeloid and T-lymphoid differentiation.
The effects of 13-cis-retinoic acid and beta-carotene on cellular immunity in humans.	Deficiency of vitamin A and/or its precursors has been associated with increased cancer risk in animals and humans. Therapeutic trials of vitamin A and related compounds have demonstrated activity in several cancerous and precancerous conditions. The authors measured the effects of a retinoid, 13-cis-retinoic acid, and a carotenoid, beta-carotene, on the human immune system in vivo in conjunction with their use in ongoing clinical trials. Immune cell subpopulations were analyzed by quantifying the expression of markers using flow cytometric study. Both compounds produced significant effects on immune cell populations. 13-cis-Retinoic acid resulted in an increase in the percentage of peripheral blood lymphoid cells expressing surface markers for T-helper cells with only minimal effect on natural killer cell marker expression. In contrast, beta-carotene produced an increase in the percentage of cells expressing natural killer cell markers with smaller effect on T-helper markers. Modest increases in the percentage of cells expressing Ia antigen, transferrin, and interleukin-2 receptors were produced by both drugs. These results suggest that retinoids and carotenoids can produce major changes in immune cellular marker expression in vivo in humans at doses relevant to their potential clinical use.
Comparison of effects of transforming growth factor-beta and cyclosporin A on antigen-presenting cells of blood and epidermis.	The antigen-processing and -presenting functions of freshly obtained epidermal Langerhans cells (fresh LC) and 72-h cultured Langerhans cells (cultured LC) differ remarkably. It has been proposed that the disparate functional programs revealed in vitro may correspond directly with distinct in vivo physiologic functions--fresh LC are the in vitro equivalent of intraepidermal LC and cultured LC are equivalent to LC that have migrated from skin to the draining lymph node. As an approach to studying this proposal, we have compared the effects of two immunosuppressive agents, cyclosporin A (CsA) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF beta), on the alloantigen-presenting capabilities of fresh LC, cultured LC, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). CsA pretreatment (1 and 10 mu/ml x 2 h) profoundly inhibited alloantigen presentation by fresh LC, cultured LC, and PBMC. By contrast, TGF beta pretreatment (1 and 10 ng/ml x 2 h) inhibited presentation by PBMC and cultured LC, but not by fresh LC. The resistance of fresh LC to the deleterious effects of TGF beta is discussed in terms of the possibility that TGF beta may inhibit antigen processing following conventional endocytosis. We suggest that fresh, but not cultured, LC escape TGF beta effects because they possess an "alternative" endocytic pathway, marked by the presence of Birbeck granules.
IL-4 increases IL-2 production by T cells in response to accessory cell-independent stimuli.	Freshly prepared, highly purified T cells from naive mice failed to produce IL-2 in response to soluble anti-CD3 antibody or to Con A and produced only small amounts of IL-2 in response to anti-CD3 coated on the surface of microwells. IL-2 production in response to soluble anti-CD3 or to Con A required the addition of accessory cells. By contrast, the addition of IL-4 strikingly enhanced the production of IL-2 by plate-bound anti-CD3-stimulated T cells in the absence or the presence of added accessory cells. Furthermore, anti-IL-4 mAb inhibited IL-2 production by anti-CD3-stimulated T cells, which indicates that endogenously produced IL-4 was important in IL-2 production by T cells to plate-bound anti-CD3. The capacity of IL-4 to enhance and of anti-IL-4 to inhibit IL-2 production in response to plate-bound anti-CD3 was also observed with both unstimulated T cells and with T cells that had been previously stimulated with anti-CD3 antibody. When activated T cells were restimulated with anti-CD3, the effect of IL-4 in enhancing IL-2 production was detectable within 6 to 8 h after restimulation. The effect of IL-4 on IL-2 production was not due to prolongation of survival or to enhanced proliferation of T cells. Northern blot analysis showed that T cells treated with anti-CD3 plus IL-4 had more than 10-fold more IL-2 mRNA than did T cells treated with anti-CD3 plus anti-IL-4; this was observed within 6 h of stimulation under certain circumstances. The increased level of IL-2 mRNA by IL-4 was achieved without any change in message half-life, suggesting that IL-4 enhances transcriptional activation of the IL-2 gene in such cells. These results lead to the conclusion that IL-4 has a critical role in IL-2 production in response to accessory cell-independent stimuli (plate-bound anti-CD3 antibody), although it is not essential to IL-2 production in response to accessory cell-dependent stimuli (soluble anti-CD3 and Con A).
Modulation of the immune response to tumors by a novel synthetic compound, (4R)-3-benzoyl-N-[(1R)-1-phenylethyl]-4-thiazolidinecarboxamide (RS-0481).	RS-0481, (4R)-3-benzoyl-N-[(1R)-phenylethyl]-4-thiazolidinecarboxamide, is a compound that can re-establish the function of certain lymphoid cell populations impaired by the presence of a growing tumor in an animal. The compound markedly augmented the tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes, TDTH (delayed-type hypersensitivity T cells), and the nonspecific lymphokine-activated-killer-cell-like cell responses. It also enhanced the tumor-inhibitory effect of macrophages in tumor-bearing mice, but not in normal mice, indicating that it enhances the antitumor immune responses. Lymphocytes from RS-0481-treated tumor-bearing mice released significantly higher amounts of macrophage-activating factor(s) (MAF) and interleukin-2(IL-2)-like factors in culture compared with lymphocytes from untreated animals. Also, sera from treated tumor bearers showed elevated colony-stimulating factor (CSF) activity. Although the compound did not influence the factor-producing activity in mice without tumor, it enhanced the responsiveness of their bone marrow cells, T cells, and macrophages to CSF, IL-2, and MAF. It seems therefore possible that the compound enhances the responsiveness of immunocompetent cells to cytokines, resulting in a marked augmentation of antitumor T cell responses in tumor-bearing mice. Consistently it inhibited the development of lymph node metastasis of transplanted X5563 plasmacytoma, and we showed that T cells play a decisive role in this inhibition. The compound also counteracted the development of suppressor T cell activity in the spleen of tumor-bearing mice.
Opposing actions of dehydroepiandrosterone and testosterone on insulin sensitivity. In vivo and in vitro studies of hyperandrogenic females.	It has been hypothesized that the androgens testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may have opposing actions on insulin sensitivity. To test this hypothesis, we selected patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO) and hypertestosteronemia and a group of individuals with adrenal hyperplasia (AH) and elevated DHEA and studied their 1) insulin and glucose responses to a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test, 2) insulin resistance by hypoglycemic responses to a standard dose of intravenous (IV) insulin, and 3) insulin binding and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) responsiveness to insulin in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-activated T lymphocytes. PCO patients exhibited elevated basal and glucose-challenged insulin levels and had blunted hypoglycemic responses to IV insulin. Conversely, AH patients had hypoglycemic responses to IV insulin significantly greater than and basal and glucose-challenged insulin levels lower than the PCO patients and weight-matched control subjects. In vitro, T-lymphocyte insulin binding of the PCO patients was 40-60% below control values; in AH patients, insulin binding and PDH insulin sensitivity were above those of the control subjects. Testosterone levels in all study subjects were negatively correlated to T-lymphocyte insulin binding and positively correlated to basal insulin, insulin area under the curve (AUC), and insulin-glucose indices. DHEA levels were positively correlated to insulin binding and inversely related to basal insulin, insulin AUC, and insulin-glucose indices. In all instances, the parameters of insulin sensitivity were more strongly correlated to individuals' ratios of DHEA to testosterone than to either of these androgens alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of intracellular Ca2+ in the regulation of the plasma membrane Ca2+ permeability of unstimulated rat lymphocytes.	The mechanism responsible for the increase in cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) during mitogenic stimulation of lymphocytes has been widely investigated. By contrast, little is known about the processes underlying Ca2+i homeostasis in resting (unstimulated) cells. It has been suggested that [Ca2+]i is an important determinant of the rate of Ca2+ influx following mitogenic activation. Using rat thymic lymphocytes, we investigated whether the resting influx pathway is similarly controlled by [Ca2+]i. Otherwise untreated cells were Ca(2+)-depleted by loading with Ca2+ chelators while suspended in Ca(2+)-free solution. Ca2+ depletion induced an 8-fold increase in the rate of unidirectional Ca2+ uptake. The depletion-activated flux was voltage-sensitive and was blocked by La3+ and by compound SK&F 96365, a receptor-operated Ca2+ channel blocker. Upon reintroduction to Ca(2+)-containing solution, the increased influx brought about a rapid recovery of [Ca2+]i. Detailed analysis of the magnitude of the 45Ca2+ flux during this recovery indicated that [Ca2+]i is not the primary determinant of the plasmalemmal Ca2+ permeability. Instead, depletion of an internal thapsigargin-sensitive store correlates with and appears to be responsible for the increased permeability of the plasma membrane. Accordingly, the Ca2+ fluxes induced by intracellular Ca2+ depletion and by thapsigargin were pharmacologically indistinguishable. Mitogenic lectins also released Ca2+ from a thapsigargin-sensitive store and activated a plasmalemmal Ca2+ permeability displaying identical pharmacology. The data support the existence of a coupling process whereby the degree of filling of an internal Ca2+ store dictates the Ca2+ permeability of the plasma membrane. This coupling mechanism is important not only in mediating the effects of mitogens and other agonists, as suggested before, but seemingly also in the control of resting Ca2+i homeostasis in unstimulated cells.
A recombinant extracellular domain of the human interleukin 4 receptor inhibits the biological effects of interleukin 4 on T and B lymphocytes.	Human interleukin 4 (IL4) acts on various hematopoietic cell types through interaction with a specific cell surface receptor (IL4R), whose cDNA has been cloned. We have produced a cDNA encoding a soluble form of the extracellular domain of the human IL 4R (sIL4R) and describe here the capacity of sIL4R to antagonize the in vitro activities of IL4 on normal B and T lymphocytes. sIL4R inhibited IL4-induced proliferation of both phytohemagglutinin-preactivated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and anti-IgM co-stimulated tonsil B cells with similar efficiency. This inhibitory activity was specific since sIL4R did not affect IL2-dependent proliferation of these cells. sIL4R also blocked IL4-dependent induction of the low-affinity receptor for IgE on B cells and inhibited IgE production by IL4-activated PBMC. Thus, in contrast to the IL6R extracellular domain which stimulates IL6 biological activity, the IL4R extracellular domain is a powerful antagonist of its specific ligand.
Interleukin 1-induced maturation of progenitor thymocytes.	Regulation of thymocyte development was assessed by culturing purified CD4-CD8- thymocytes with cytokines. Sorted CD3-CD4-CD8- adult thymocytes responded to the combination of interleukin (IL) 1 plus IL 2 without additional mitogens or co-mitogens with both cellular proliferation and cell surface expression of the T cell receptor (TcR)/CD3 complex. IL2 alone induced neither proliferation nor cell surface TcR/CD3 expression. IL1 alone was sufficient to induce cell surface TcR/CD3 without proliferation. Prior to stimulation with cytokines, the progenitor CD4-CD8- thymocytes accumulated TcR beta and CD3 gamma, delta, epsilon and zeta mRNA but TcR alpha mRNA was not detectable. Stimulation with IL 1 led to a dramatic induction of TcR alpha mRNA without an increase in the other transcripts. These studies suggest that IL 1 regulates the differentiation status of immature adult thymocytes. Nuclear run-on studies suggested that the increase in TcR alpha mRNA accumulation induced by cytokines might result from post-transcriptional accumulation.
Inhibition of anti-skin allograft immunity induced by infusions with photoinactivated effector T lymphocytes--the congenic model.	We have previously reported the capacity to produce donor-specific tolerance to alloantigens by intravenous exposure to pretreated antidonor T cells. The current study has refined this system by using congenic mice differing only at the H-2 major histocompatibility complex genetic loci. Twelve days after B10 mice received MHC-incompatible B10.D2 skin grafts, their splenocytes that included an expanded population of cells mediating rejection were treated with 100 ng/ml 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) photoactivated by 1 J/cm2 of ultraviolet A prior to infusion into naive B10 recipients. Whereas 8-MOP itself is biologically inert, photoactivated 8-MOP crosslinks DNA by covalently binding to pyrimidine bases. Recipient B10 mice were tested for tolerance to B10.D2 alloantigens in mixed leukocyte culture (MLC), cytotoxicity (CTL), and to in vivo delayed type hypersensitivity assays and challenged with a fresh B10.D2 graft. In vivo, the DTH response of the pretreated B10 mice was specifically suppressed to the relevant alloantigen, correlating with retention of B10.D2 skin grafts for up to 22 days postengraftment without visual evidence of rejection, in comparison to control complete rejection of the skin graft in less than 12 days. In vitro, splenocytes from B10 recipients of pretreated syngeneic splenocytes containing large numbers of B10 anti-B10.D2 T cells proliferated less in MLC and generated lower cytotoxic T cell responses to B10.D2 alloantigens than did controls and suppressed the B10 MLC and CTL responses to B10.D2 alloantigen. These results reveal that, in a highly defined congenic transplantation system, infusions of photoinactivated effector cells resulted in selective inhibition of the in vivo responses that correlated with allograft rejection and permitted prolonged retention of histoincompatible skin grafts. This approach may have significant practical applicability for treatment of human disorders caused by aberrant T cells.
Different mechanisms of activation of proliferating CD3+ cells in patients with lymphoproliferative disease of granular lymphocytes.	To investigate the role of p55 and p75 chains of interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) on the activation of granular lymphocytes (GL) in patients with lymphoproliferative disease of granular lymphocytes (LDGL), the cells obtained from 11 LDGL patients (belonging to the CD3+ group) were studied for (a) the surface expression and (b) mRNA transcripts of the p55 and p75 IL-2R after activation with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb) or interleukin-2 (IL-2). The effects of mAbs specifically blocking the p55 and p75 IL-2R on the generation of proliferative and cytotoxic functions were studied following anti-CD3 mAb stimulation. A significant difference was observed in the expression of p55 and p75 antigens on LDGL cells under resting conditions: a low number of p55 IL-2R+ (mean 1.2 +/- 0.4%) and high values of p75 IL-2R+ cells (54.9 +/- 7.4%). Accordingly, a barely detectable message for the p55 IL-2R and a strong signal for the p75 IL-2R mRNA were demonstrated. Following activation with anti-CD3 or IL-2, different patterns of IL-2R expression were observed. Anti-CD3 mAb induced an increase in the expression of the p55 IL-2R both at the mRNA and antigen level, whereas the p75 values remained consistently raised. In contrast, IL-2 induced the expression of p55 IL-2R mRNA associated with only a slight expression of this antigen. This finding was associated with a decrease in the cell expression of the p75 IL-2R, whereas the amount of p75 mRNA was unchanged. Both anti-CD3 mAb and IL-2 induced cell proliferation and cytotoxicity against the K-562 target cells. Anti-p55 IL-2R mAb did not affect the cytotoxic activity mediated by anti-CD3, but it markedly inhibited cell proliferation. Anti-p75 mAb did not inhibit either lytic function or cell proliferation mediated by anti-CD3 mAb, suggesting that only the high affinity IL-2R (p55 plus p75) is involved in anti-CD3 mediated cell activation in LDGL patients. This mechanism is different from that responsible for the IL-2 activation of CD3+ GL in LDGL patients, which is achieved through the p75 IL-2R alone. These results provide new insights into the pathophysiology of proliferating GL in LDGL patients and may also contribute to further characterization of the normal CD3+ GL population.
Signal transduction by HLA-DR is mediated by tyrosine kinase(s) and regulated by CD45 in activated T cells.	Recently, it was shown that HLA class II molecules on B cells and activated human T cells can transmit signals involving tyrosine phosphorylation of specific proteins, activation of the inositol phospholipid pathway, and release of cytosolic free Ca2+(Ca2+)i. The regulation of class II induced signals is poorly understood, however, and it remained unknown whether these pathways were coupled or activated independently. Here we show that a specific inhibitor of protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), herbimycin, abrogated DR-induced elevation of (Ca2+)i in activated human T cells. Genistein, belonging to another family of PTK inhibitors, had weaker but significant inhibitory effects on DR-induced (Ca2+)i responses. CD45 crosslinking with DR almost completely abrogated DR-induced (Ca2+)i responses and profoundly changed the PTK profiles. In contrast, CD4 crosslinking with DR enhanced the (Ca2+)i responses, but the inhibitory effect of CD45 dominated over the enhancing effect of CD4. These data indicate that PTK activation is obligatory for DR-induced (Ca2+)i responses, suggesting a linkage between these pathways in class II signal transduction. This conclusion is consistent with our observation that in activated human T cells, class II signals are up regulated by CD4, which is associated with p56lck, and down regulated by CD45, which is a tyrosine phosphatase.
IL-2 secretion and T cell clonal anergy are induced by distinct biochemical pathways.	In Th1 clones, TCR occupancy together with a costimulatory signal from APC results in IL-2 production. TCR occupancy alone results in unresponsiveness (anergy) to antigenic stimulation, a phenomenon that may be important for self-tolerance in vivo. Inasmuch as inositol phosphate production occurs during the induction of anergy other biochemical signals must be necessary for IL-2 production. Here we assess the role of tyrosine-specific protein kinases using the specific inhibitor, genistein. IL-2 secretion and responsiveness were very dependent on tyrosine-specific protein kinase activation and could be completely blocked under conditions where inositol phosphate generation occurred normally. Although anergy induction could also be blocked by inhibition of tyrosine-specific protein kinase activation this probably occurred indirectly via inhibition of inositol phospholipid hydrolysis. The differential susceptibility of IL-2 secretion and anergy induction to inhibition by genistein indicates that positive and negative outcomes of TCR occupancy may be mediated by distinct biochemical pathways.
Efalizumab: a biological agent for the treatment of psoriasis.	Efalizumab is a humanized, monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds to the alpha-subunit of lymphocyte function associated antigen (LFA)-1, blocking the interaction between LFA-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1. The result is a reduction in T cell activation, an inhibition of the trafficking and recruitment of T cells to the dermis and epidermis, and a decrease in the reactivation of T cells at several steps in the psoriasis pathogenesis. The clinical responses seen in efalizumab trials have demonstrated that this medication is efficacious, especially in long-term treatment. Adverse events observed in efalizumab-treated patients have been minor. Psoriasis rebound following discontinuation of treatment, while serious, has been controlled through transition to other therapies. Subcutaneous injection allows for administration outside the clinic.
Human T cell responses to beta-galactosidase.	The peripheral blood of most normal individuals has been shown to contain T cells that respond to beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal), presumably as a result of natural priming. Three T cell clones (clones 1,2,4) specific for beta-Gal were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) after pretreatment with leucine methyl ester (LeuOMe); a fourth clone from the same individual was isolated from untreated cells. All four clones were CD4+ CD8- alpha beta TcR+ and clone 1 was additionally shown to be cytotoxic. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transformed B cell lines were derived from LeuOMe-treated or untreated PBMC and used to study the efficiency of presentation of beta-Gal to one of the clones. The results indicated that B cells transformed after LeuOMe treatment presented beta-Gal at lower concentrations than untreated controls. beta-Gal would therefore appear to be a highly suitable model antigen for studies of immunoregulation in humans.
Effect of therapeutic integrin (CD11a) blockade with efalizumab on immune responses to model antigens in humans: results of a randomized, single blind study.	Efalizumab is a humanized monoclonal CD11a antibody approved for treatment of psoriasis. Its immunomodulatory effects led us study how immune responses are modified and the possible consequences for vaccinations in clinical practice. This was a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of 12 weeks of subcutaneous efalizumab treatment of patients with moderate psoriasis. Bacteriophage phiX174 was used as a model neoantigen to assess T-cell-dependent humoral immunity. Tetanus booster vaccine, pneumococcal vaccine, and intracutaneous skin tests were administered to further evaluate humoral and cellular immune responses. During efalizumab treatment, both primary and secondary antibody responses to phiX174, including IgM/IgG isotype switch, were reduced. There appeared to be nave T-cell anergy to a neoantigen (phiX174) during active CD11a blockade, without tolerance to the antigen after efalizumab withdrawal. Secondary humoral immune responses to tetanus booster during treatment were reduced, but antibody titer increases led to protective levels. Responses to pneumococcal vaccination 6 weeks after withdrawal from efalizumab were not affected. Cellular immune responses to intracutaneous recall antigens were reduced during treatment and returned to pretreatment conditions after withdrawal. These results expand our knowledge of how immune responses are modulated in humans by CD11a blockade and have implications for vaccinations of patients treated with this agent.
Inhibition of protein phosphatases by okadaic acid induces AP1 in human T cells.	To examine the role of protein phosphatases in T cell activation, Jurkat cells were treated with okadaic acid, an inhibitor of type 1 and 2A phosphatases, and nuclear extracts were examined for the presence of AP1 as a measure of early T cell activation. Okadaic acid was found to be a potent inducer of AP1. In contrast to phorbol esters such as phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), the induction of AP1 by okadaic acid occurs predominantly by transcriptional activation of the jun and fos family of proto-oncogenes. Surprisingly, while the addition of phytohemagglutinin further enhanced the induction of AP1, the addition of PMA inhibited it. Okadaic acid treatment was found to dramatically increase mRNA transcripts of the jun family of proto-oncogenes including c-jun, junD, and junB and to a lesser extent the fos family including c-fos and fra-1. By comparison, PMA is a very inefficient inducer of the jun gene family in Jurkat cells. Similar to its effect on the induction of AP1 by okadaic acid, PMA inhibits the induction of c-jun mRNA by okadaic acid. Transfection of c-jun promoter constructs confirmed the marked difference between PMA and okadaic acid in inducing c-jun transcription. The induction of AP1 by okadaic acid suggests that protein phosphatases 1 and 2A (PP1 and PP2A) may be involved in T cell activation as important negative regulators of the transcription factor AP1.
Effect of anti-human immunodeficiency virus nucleoside analogs on mitochondrial DNA and its implication for delayed toxicity.	The anti-human immunodeficiency virus (-HIV) nucleoside analogs azidothymidine (AZT), dideoxycytidine (ddC), dideoxyinosine (ddl), dideoxydidehydrothymidine (D4T), and dideoxydidehydrocytidine (D4C) and the anticancer drug cytosine arabinoside (AraC) were compared for their effects on the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content in a human lymphoblastoid cell line, CEM. The potency of these compounds in reducing mtDNA content was in the order of ddC greater than D4C greater than D4T greater than AZT greater than ddl. AraC did not have a significant effect on mtDNA content. All of the compounds tested, except AraC, stimulated lactic acid production at concentrations that inhibited mtDNA synthesis. The action of ddC and ddl occurred at concentrations that did not affect cell growth significantly in 4 days but retarded cell growth by day 6. D4T and D4C decreased mtDNA content by 50% at doses lower than those that inhibited cell growth by 50% in 4 days (ID50). However, AZT required a dose higher than the ID50 to exert similar effects on mtDNA content. The decrease of mtDNA content caused by ddC also occurred in nerve growth factor-treated PC12 cells, which differentiate to neuron-like cells upon treatment with nerve growth factor. The preferential inhibition of mtDNA, compared with cell growth, by some of these anti-HIV nucleoside analogs correlates well with their ability to cause drug-limiting delayed toxicity, such as peripheral neuropathy, in patients. These data suggest that the selective mitochondrial toxicity could be responsible for the delayed toxicity caused by these anti-HIV analogs.
Development of an in vivo gene mutation assay using the endogenous Pig-A gene: II. Selection of Pig-A mutant rat spleen T-cells with proaerolysin and sequencing Pig-A cDNA from the mutants.	We previously reported that rat spleen T-cells and peripheral red blood cells that are deficient in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) synthesis [presumed mutants for the phosphatidylinositol glycan complementation group A gene (Pig-A)] could be detected by flow cytometry (FCM) as cells negative for GPI-linked markers (CD48 and CD59, respectively). To establish this procedure as a rapid in vivo gene mutation assay, we have examined the Pig-A gene of GPI-deficient rat spleen T-cells for DNA sequence alterations. Splenocytes were isolated from male F344 rats, primed with ionomycin and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate, and seeded at limiting-dilution into 96-well plates. To select for GPI-deficient T-cells, the cells were cultured for 10 days in a medium containing rat T-STIM and 2 nM proaerolysin (ProAER). The frequency of ProAER-resistant (ProAER(r)) spleen T-cells from control rats ranged from 1.3 x 10(-6) to 4.8 x 10(-6), while administration of three doses of 40 mg/kg N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea increased the frequency of ProAER(r) T-cells 100-fold at 4 weeks after dosing. FCM analysis of the cells in ProAER(r) clones revealed that they were CD48-negative, and thus presumably GPI-deficient. Sequencing of Pig-A cDNA from six ProAER(r) clones indicated that they all contained alterations in the Pig-A protein coding sequence; five had base pair substitutions and one had multiple exons deleted. These results indicate that GPI-deficient spleen T-cells are Pig-A gene mutants and support the use of FCM analysis of GPI-deficient cells as a rapid assay for measuring in vivo gene mutation.
Inhibition of LFA-1 mediated T-cell motility by naphthoquinones.	An in vitro T-cell migration assay has been established that can be used to study the effects of compounds on the development of T-cell polarisation with HuT-78 T lymphocytes. This assay indicates the ability of compounds tested to inhibit the inflammatory response by decreasing LFA-1-mediated T-cell motility. The effect of a series of naturally occurring quinone isolates on motility has been evaluated in this assay. Distinct differences have been observed between naphthoquinones, dihydrofuranonaphthoquinones and anthraquinones.
Sensing the microenvironment of the central nervous system: immune cells in the central nervous system and their pharmacological manipulation.	Immune responses are highly regulated in all organs and severely restricted in certain tissues within the central nervous system (CNS). This phenomenon, called 'immune privilege', has been linked to the existence of multiple anatomical and physiological protective mechanisms. The finely balanced anti-inflammatory microenvironment within the CNS contributes to the immune privilege status of this tissue. The regulation of this compartment changes under pathological conditions when pro-inflammatory mediators might dominate. The past few years brought a wealth of novel information fostering our understanding of how CNS resident cells regulate the functions of immune cells, particularly helper T lymphocytes (Ths) and dendritic cells (DCs). These two cell types play a crucial role in the initiation and maintenance of neuroinflammatory diseases. The change from anti-inflammatory to pro-inflammatory microenvironment in the inflamed CNS affects Th and DC accumulation and function in the nervous tissue. A new era of DC-targeted therapies has begun, with the possibility of designing novel immunomodulatory therapies to intervene with neuroinflammation in a wide range of neurological diseases.
Impaired B-cell reconstitution in lymphoma patients undergoing allogeneic HSCT: an effect of pretreatment with rituximab?	Allogeneic hematopoietic SCT (HSCT) is increasingly considered an option in refractory or relapsing lymphoma. Today, most patients with B-cell lymphoma are treated with the monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody rituximab before HSCT. We hypothesized that prior therapy with rituximab might alter immune reconstitution after allogeneic transplantation due to in vivo depletion of B cells at the time of graft infusion. We studied B-cell immune reconstitution in 12 patients with lymphoma receiving rituximab 1-12 months before HSCT. Compared to an age- and sex-matched population of patients transplanted for myeloid malignancies, lymphoma patients with rituximab pretreatment showed significantly reduced B-cell counts at time of HSCT at +3, +6 and +12 months; B-cell counts reached values comparable to controls only 24 months after HSCT. In parallel, levels of immunoglobulins were markedly reduced for up to 2 years post transplant in patients with prior rituximab treatment. Two patients suffered from severe late bacterial infections to which the impaired humoral immunity may have contributed. In contrast, T- and NK-cell reconstitution was not different compared to control patients.In conclusion, B-cell reconstitution can be significantly delayed in allogeneic HSCT recipients with prior rituximab treatment. Rituximab appears to have clinical consequences beyond the immediate early post-transplant period.
Mycophenolate mofetil inhibits T-cell proliferation in kidney transplant recipients without lowering intracellular dGTP and GTP.	To study if mycophenolic acid (MPA), the active metabolite of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), indeed inhibits T-cell proliferation in kidney transplant recipients by lowering intracellular deoxyguanosine triphosphate (dGTP) and guanosine triphosphate (GTP) levels. Blood was drawn from 11 kidney transplant recipients. Ex vivo T-cell proliferation was measured by stimulation with phytohemagglutin (PHA) and anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb). Plasma MPA levels and intracellular dGTP and GTP in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were measured. MMF induces a significant decrease in T-lymphocyte proliferation at all time points (i.e. 24 h, 10 days and 8 weeks) after stimulation with both PHA (P = 0.001, 0.002 and 0.013 respectively) and anti-CD3 mAb (P = 0.004, 0.004 and 0.005 respectively). There was no significant change in intracellular dGTP (P = 0.31, 0.16 and 0.35) or GTP levels (P = 0.99, 0.32 and 0.49) between baseline and day 1, day 10 or week 8. All MPA levels were above the minimal required concentration for the inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation. MMF inhibits T-lymphocyte proliferation in kidney transplant recipients without lowering intracellular dGTP or GTP levels. This suggests another mechanism underlying its immunosuppressive capacity.
Activation of T lymphocytes by polysaccharide-protein complex from Lycium barbarum L.	T lymphocytes play central roles in adaptive immunity. Lycium barbarum L. (L. barbarum), also known as wolfberry, is a Chinese herbal medicine with various biological activities, such as enhancing immunity, protecting liver damage, and reducing the side effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Here, we report that polysaccharide-protein complex from L. barbarum (LBP) is able to activate T cells. LBP was isolated from L. barbarum and separated to five homogenous fractions, designated LBPF1, LBPF2, LBPF3, LBPF4, and LBPF5. We found that LBP, LBPF4, and LBPF5 significantly stimulated mouse splenocyte proliferation. The proliferation proved to be of T cells, but not B cells. Cell cycle profile analysis indicated that LBP, LBPF4, and LBPF5 markedly reduced sub-G1 cells. LBP, LBPF4, and LBPF5 could activate transcription factors NFAT and AP-1, prompt CD25 expression, and induce IL-2 and IFN-gamma gene transcription and protein secretion. LBP (i.p. or p.o.) significantly induced T cell proliferation. Our results suggest that activation of T lymphocytes by LBP may contribute to one of its immuno-enhancement functions.
Reactive oxygen species activate HIV long terminal repeat via post-translational control of NF-kappaB.	Reduction/oxidation disorder is one of the most common ailments in HIV-infected patients, and such patients are frequently left exposed to chronic oxidative stress after the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Although a variety of clinical trials to inhibit HIV infection have been conducted by focusing on oxidative stress, their precise targets and reaction mechanism have remained unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that H2O2 treatment strongly induced HIV long terminal repeat (LTR)-driven luciferase expression in Jurkat T lymphocytes via NF-kappaB activation. Treatment with the SN50 peptide or the mutation of NF-kappaB binding site on LTR resulted in impaired LTR activity in response to ROS. H2O2 induced both IkappaB degradation and covalent modification of p65. CBP/p300-induced hyperacetylation as well as phosphorylation of p65 was implicated in ROS-mediated LTR activation. The results of our study showed that ROS-induced HIV LTR activation involves immediate early NF-kappaB activation at the post-translational level.
Suppression of experimental myasthenia gravis by a B-cell epitope-free recombinant acetylcholine receptor.	Myasthenia gravis (MG) and experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG) are antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases in which the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is the major autoantigen. Previously we have revealed that oral treatment with the less native recombinant fragment of the extracellular domain of the human AChR (Halpha1-205) suppressed ongoing EAMG, whereas the more native recombinant Trx-Halpha1-210 exacerbated EAMG. In this study, we speculated on the role of B-cell epitopes in oral tolerogens for the induction of oral tolerance in EAMG. We developed a B-cell epitope-free AChR fragment (BF-AChR) by removing two major B-cell epitopes (67-76 and 129-145) from Trx-Halpha1-210. BF-AChR exhibited a poor response to EAMG sera and to AChR-specific B- and T-cells while its parent fragment, Trx-Halpha1-210, showed much higher reactivity. Oral administration of BF-AChR ameliorated the symptoms in ongoing myasthenic rats accompanied by a significant decrease in AChR-specific humoral and Th1 cellular responses. The underlying mechanism for BF-AChR-induced oral tolerance was mediated by a shift from Th1 to regulatory T-cell (IL-10(+), CD4(+) TGF-beta(+) or Foxp3(+)) responses. This shift was assessed by changes in the cytokine profile and a deviation in the anti-AChR IgG isotypes from IgG2a/IgG2b to IgG1. Our results suggest that the removal of pathogenic B-cell epitopes from AChR fragments increases tolerogenicity by reducing the activation and proliferation of autoreactive B- and T-cells. Collectively, careful consideration of the immunogenicity of a tolerogen is necessary to induce successful oral tolerance in autoimmune disorders.
Immunomodulatory effects of imatinib and second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors on T cells and dendritic cells: an update.	The discovery of new drugs has occasionally led to a better understanding of biologic processes and unforeseen therapeutic applications. One such example is the new group of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, exemplified by the Bcr-Abl inhibitor imatinib (Glivec). In the last 10 years, these so-called 'small molecules' have started to enter the clinic with the promise of cancer treatments targeted at the underlying molecular changes that are responsible for specific malignant phenotypes. The aim of these small molecules has been to avoid the side-effects of systemic chemotherapies and the high morbidity/mortality risks associated with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Concurrently, however, increasing evidence has emerged to indicate that these drugs exert profound immunomodulatory effects on T cells and antigen-presenting cells, such as dendritic cells, which play major roles in immune tumor surveillance and the outcome of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy may thus control cancer cell growth both directly and indirectly by changing the immunologic microenvironment. Furthermore, such molecules might help to unravel the complexities of the human immune system and could find therapeutic application in conditions as diverse as autoimmune diseases and certain infectious processes. In this brief review, we discuss recent developments in this fast evolving field.
Efalizumab in the treatment of psoriasis: when comorbidity is an issue.	Psoriasis is a common dermatosis affecting the skin, mucosal surfaces, and cutaneous adnexa, and joints and bones can be involved at some degree in the clinical features of the disease, configuring psoriatic arthritis. Moderate to severe psoriasis has a high impact on quality of life and requires an integrated and long-term treatment schedule. However, management of psoriasis in patients affected by other systemic diseases can be challenging because of the possible side effects or contraindications of various treatments in accordance with patients' medical history. In recent times, the therapeutical approaches have changed a lot, thanks to biologicals. The current authors present some cases of psoriatic patients with comorbidities successfully treated with efalizumab, an anti-T lymphocyte biological.
Effect of nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors of HIV on endogenous nucleotide pools.	Alterations in endogenous nucleotide pools as a result of HIV therapy with nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (N[t]RTIs) is a proposed mechanism for therapy-related adverse events and drug interactions resulting in treatment failure. In vitro studies were performed in order to understand the effect of N(t)RTIs on endogenous nucleotide pools.
Tolerance-inducing immunosuppressive strategies in clinical transplantation: an overview.	The significant development of immunosuppressive drug therapies within the past 20 years has had a major impact on the outcome of clinical solid organ transplantation, mainly by decreasing the incidence of acute rejection episodes and improving short-term patient and graft survival. However, long-term results remain relatively disappointing because of chronic allograft dysfunction and patient morbidity or mortality, which is often related to the adverse effects of immunosuppressive treatment. Thus, the induction of specific immunological tolerance of the recipient towards the allograft remains an important objective in transplantation. In this article, we first briefly describe the mechanisms of allograft rejection and immune tolerance. We then review in detail current tolerogenic strategies that could promote central or peripheral tolerance, highlighting the promises as well as the remaining challenges in clinical transplantation. The induction of haematopoietic mixed chimerism could be an approach to induce robust central tolerance, and we describe recent encouraging reports of end-stage kidney disease patients, without concomitant malignancy, who have undergone combined bone marrow and kidney transplantation. We discuss current studies suggesting that, while promoting peripheral transplantation tolerance in preclinical models, induction protocols based on lymphocyte depletion (polyclonal antithymocyte globulins, alemtuzumab) or co-stimulatory blockade (belatacept) should, at the current stage, be considered more as drug-minimization rather than tolerance-inducing strategies. Thus, a better understanding of the mechanisms that promote peripheral tolerance has led to newer approaches and the investigation of individualized donor-specific cellular therapies based on manipulated recipient regulatory T cells.
Reactivity of in vitro activated human T lymphocytes to p-phenylenediamine and related substances.	Patch tests to p-phenylenediamine (PPD) and related substances often show concurrent reactions that can be attributed to separate sensitization or cross-reactivity.
Costimulation blockade in transplantation of nerve allografts: long-term effects.	Costimulation blockade can prevent rejection of nerve allografts in short-term studies. We tested if costimulation blockade also prevented rejection of nerve allografts in long-term experiments, thereby improving functional recovery. A 7-mm sciatic nerve defect in C57/BL6 mice was bridged either by nerve allografts from Balb/C mice or by isogenic nerve grafts (isografts) from C57/BL6 mice. Costimulation blockade in the form of a triple treatment with anti-LFA-1, anti-CD40L, and CTLA4Ig was given at post-operative days 0, 2, 4, and 6 (intraperitoneal). Control mice (placebo; allografts) with nerve grafts were treated with isotype antibodies during the same time period. After 49 days, tetanic muscle force, wet weight of gastrocnemius muscle, histology, and morphometry in the tibial nerve were evaluated. Costimulation blockade diminished rejection of the nerve allografts. Axons bridged the graft. Treatment increased wet weight of the gastrocnemius muscle and resulted in a higher mean myelin area/nerve fiber in the tibial nerve distal to the nerve grafts. Tetanic muscle force and number of axons in tibial nerve showed no differences between groups. We conclude that rejection is suppressed by costimulation blockade. Treatment improves recovery of target muscle and myelination after nerve allografting.
The effect of aspirin on human's gammadeltaT cells killing digestive system tumor cell lines]	To explore the effect of aspirin on human's gammadeltaT cells killing digestive system tumor cell lines.
CTLA4Ig and the therapeutic potential of T cell co-stimulation blockade.	It is now generally accepted that CD4 T cells are critical players in the initiation of adaptive immune responses by contributing to the terminal differentiation of effector B cells or CD8+ T cells. It is therefore not surprising that CD4+ T cell activation is tightly controlled through the concerted action of a large number of molecular interactions. Activation requires not only the recognition of the appropriate antigen within a MHC molecule by the T cell receptor TCR but also the delivery of co-stimulatory signals by the antigen presenting cell APC . As a consequence therapeutic modulation of co-stimulatory molecules for instance with CTLA4Ig can lead to interference with T cell activation and consequently abrogation of pro-inflammatory manifestations mediated by cell types influenced by CD4+ T cells such as B cells CD8+ T cells or macrophages. This type of observations provided the rationale for the use of co-stimulatory blockade in autoimmunity and other immunopathology characterized by inappropriate immune activation such as rheumatoid arthritis RA . Several studies have also suggested that besides the non-specific anti-inflammatory effects co-stimulation blockade may in certain conditions promote the induction of long term immune tolerance.
FTY720 therapy exerts differential effects on T cell subsets in multiple sclerosis.	The oral immunomodulator FTY720 has shown efficacy in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). FTY720 functionally antagonizes sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor-1 (S1P1) on T cells and consequently inhibits S1P/S1P1-dependent lymphocyte egress from secondary lymphoid organs. Little is known about the phenotype and function of T cells remaining in peripheral blood during long-term FTY720 treatment.
Modulation of murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and B-cells by MCS-18 a natural product isolated from Helleborus purpurascens.	MCS-18, a natural product isolated from Helleborus purpurascens has been shown to have several beneficial effects in inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. However, very little is known regarding the immuno-modulatory capacity of MCS-18 in respect to murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BM-DC) and B-cells. Thus, in the present study we examined the effect of MCS-18 on murine BM-DC and B-cells. Interestingly MCS-18 inhibited the expression of important DC-specific molecules and lead to an impaired T-cell stimulation capacity. In addition, MCS-18 also reduced B-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin production.
Treatment of lupus nephritis: facing the era of immunotherapy.	Lupus nephritis (LN) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality, affecting over half of SLE patients. The traditional treatment protocol with cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids dramatically improved patient and renal survival, but conferred a heavy burden of side effects. In addition, not all patients respond to first-line immunosuppression; 35% suffer at least one episode of renal relapse and 5-20% develop end-stage renal disease. Over the last decade, the increasing understanding of the complex pathogenesis underlying lupus nephritis and accelerating advances in molecular and cellular immunology have paved the way for development of immunomodulatory therapies for LN. In contrast to the global immunosuppressive effects of conventional treatment, these biologic agents target specific pathways that contribute to the inflammatory response, aiming to reduce tissue damage while preserving immunocompetence. The goal of this review is to highlight some of the more promising novel immunomodulators, including Abetimus sodium, Rituximab, Epratuzumab, Abatacept, Belimumab, Tocilizumab and Infliximab, and discuss how these agents affect central pathways in the pathogenesis of disease.
Balancing immunity and immunosuppression: vaccinating patients receiving treatment with efalizumab.	Although effective in the treatment of immunodysregulatory diseases such as psoriasis, targeted immunosuppressive agents may confer risks of both enhanced susceptibility to infection and decreased responsiveness to vaccination. In a recent study, Krueger et al. (this issue) investigated these issues by testing the immune response to both a model antigen and a therapeutic vaccination in psoriasis patients during and after treatment with an LFA-1 inhibitor, efalizumab.
A nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitor BAY11-7082 inhibits interactions between human endothelial cells, T cells, and monocytes.	Costimulatory molecules play critical roles during cell-mediated immune responses. We undertook this study to determine whether CD154-CD40 interactions induced human endothelial cell (EC) activation via the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB pathway, and whether the upregulation of monocyte-derived CD40 and CD80 is NF-kappaB pathway dependent. A CD154-expressing D1.1 cell-EC coculture with or without the NF-kappaB inhibitor BAY11-7082 was established to examine EC activation as indicated by CD62E expression. Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-EC cocultures were performed in the presence or absence of BAY11-7082; the expression of CD40 and CD80 on monocytes was analyzed by FACS. Allogeneic mixed lymphocyte-EC reaction (MLER) was performed to determine the inhibitory effects of BAY11-7082 to prevent lymphocyte proliferation. FACS demonstrated upregulation of EC-derived CD62E expression induced by CD154 expressing D1.1 cells. BAY11-7082 pretreated EC failed to upregulate CD62E after interaction with D1.1 cells. Monocytes upregulated CD40 and CD80 expression during PBMC-HEC interaction, and BAY11-7082 suppressed monocyte-derived CD40 and CD80 expression in a dose-dependent manner. The monocyte-derived CD86 expression was downregulated by NF-kappaB inhibitor. BAY11-7082 demonstrated inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation of allogeneic MLER. This study demonstrated that the NF-kappaB inhibitor BAY11-7082 prevented CD154-CD40 interaction-induced EC activation, suggesting that the activation of EC by T-cell-derived CD154 is via NF-kappaB pathway. The NF-kappaB inhibitor suppressed upregulation of monocytederived CD40 and CD80. Additionally, BAY11-7082 suppressed lymphocyte proliferation in response to allogeneic EC. These data indicated that NF-kappaB plays an important role in regulating costimulatory molecules in allogeneic immune responses, and strengthens the rationale for the use of NF-kappaB-directed therapy in allotransplantation.
Tacrolimus-induced apoptotic signal transduction pathway.	Tacrolimus (FK506) has been widely used as an immunosuppressant. We examined the effects of FK506 on expression of apoptotic signal transduction pathway proteins of Jurkat human T lymphocytes. We investigated the effects of FK506 on apoptosis, cell viability, caspase family protein activity, Western blotts of Bcl-2, Bak, Fas, Fas-L, CDK4, and cyclin D1, as well as reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and mitochondrial membrane potential transition. Cells were cultured in the presence or absence of FK506. Flow cytometric analysis was performed after staining with propidium iodide. Viability of Jurkat cells was decreased by the addition of FK506 in dose- and time- dependent manner. FK506-induced cytotoxicity was characterized by G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest. FK506-induced cell death was confirmed by apoptosis characterized by nuclear fragmentation and caspase-3 protease activation. FK506 induced no change in catalytic activity of caspase-6, -8, and -9 proteases. No change in expression of Bcl-2 protein was noted but we confirmed increased expression of Bak protein. No changes of expressions of Fas and Fas-L were seen. Increased expressions of CDK4 and cyclin D1 were identified. In addition, pharmacological scavenging study of ROS, including H2O2, revealed that cytotoxicity was achieved by generation of ROS, which might modulate Bak protein expression and mitochondrial dysfunction. In conclusion, FK506-induced cell death was apoptotic, characterized by nuclear fragmentation and caspase-3 activation. FK506 induced G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest via expression of CDK4 and cyclin D1. Apoptosis was also achieved by generation of H2O2, which modulated Bak protein expression and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Rapamycin-induced cytotoxic signal transduction pathway.	We examined the effects of rapamycin on activation, proliferation, and expression of cytotoxic effector molecules in Molt-4 human T lymphocytes. We investigated the effects of rapamycin on cell viability, caspase family protein activities. Western blots of Bcl-2, Bak, p53, p21, p27, Rb, CDK2, and cyclin B1, as well as measurement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and mitochondrial membrane potential transition. Cells were cultured in the presence or absence of rapamycin. Flow cytometric analysis was performed using propidium iodide stain. Viability of Molt-4 cells was decreased by the addition of rapamycin in dose- and time-dependent manners. Rapamycin induced no nuclear fragmentation in Molt-4 cells. Generation of H2O2 in rapamycin-treated Molt-4 cells increased in a time-dependent manner. There were no changes among catalytic activities of caspase proteases. And there was no evidence of expression of Bcl-2, p53, p21, p27, or Rb proteins. G2/M phase cell cycle arrest was identified by flow cytometry. We noted decreased expressions of CDK2 and cyclin B1. We also noted increased Bak protein expression and change in mitochondrial membrane potential transition. In conclusion, rapamycin-induced cytotoxicity was characterized by generation of ROS, which modulated Bak protein expression and mitochondrial dysfunction. G2/M phase cell cycle arrest was achieved by decreased expressions of CDK2 and cyclin B1.
In vivo T-cell activation by staphylococcal enterotoxin B prevents outgrowth of a malignant tumor.	Treatment of T cells with staphylococcal enterotoxins in vitro is known to activate T cells in a subset restricted manner based on beta-chain variable region (V beta) gene expression. In particular, staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) activates T cells bearing V beta 7 or V beta 8. We examined the ability of SEB to activate T cells in vivo. Treatment of C3H mice with doses of SEB ranging from 5 to 250 micrograms resulted in a dose-dependent activation of V beta 8+ T cells as reflected by increased interleukin 2 receptor (IL-2R) expression, proliferation to exogenous IL-2 and allogeneic cells, and production of gamma interferon. SEB also caused proliferation of the CD8+ subset of V beta 8+ cells in vivo. Thus, T-cell activation by SEB in vivo appears to be specific since V beta 2+ cells (non-SEB reactive) did not show increases in IL-2R expression similar to those seen with V beta 8+ cells nor did they proliferate. We then studied the ability of these activated cells to potentiate the immune response to a malignant progressor tumor. Treatment of C3H mice with 50 micrograms of SEB at the time of inoculation with tumor fragments resulted in a statistically significant decrease in the frequency of tumor outgrowth. These data demonstrate that treatment of C3H mice with SEB results in specific activation of V beta 8+ cells in vivo and that these activated cells are capable of preventing the outgrowth of a malignant tumor.
No inhibition of interferon gamma release in human lymphocytes by Ciamexone.	In previous experiments Ciamexone, derivative of 2-cyan-aziridine, was able to influence T-cell-mediated regulatory mechanisms but seemed to have no or only little effect on T cell effector mechanisms. On the basis of these observations Ciamexone seems to be a highly selective immunosuppressive agent. In order to evaluate further possible mechanisms of Ciamexone it was the aim of our investigation to study its influence on interferon gamma (IFN gamma) production in phytohaemogglutinin (PHA)-stimulated T lymphocytes of 15 tumour patients and 12 healthy reference subjects. The IFN gamma concentration of the cell supernatant was measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. When the cells were stimulated with PHA at 7.5 micrograms/ml the IFN gamma concentration rose to significantly different values in the reference group (1.0 ng/ml) as compared to the tumour patients (0.4 ng/ml) (P less than 0.05). An addition of Ciamexone (at any of the concentrations administered) to PHA stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) showed no influence on the IFN gamma release in either test group. The influence of hydrocortisone on the stimulation of PBMC with PHA resulted in a dose-dependent suppression of IFN gamma production in both test groups, again with significant differences between them. The IFN gamma concentration was 0.95 ng/ml in the reference group and 0.2 ng/ml in the tumour patients when 0.01 micrograms/ml hydrocortisone was added (P less than 0.05). At 10 micrograms/ml hydrocortisone suppressed IFN gamma production completely in both groups. Our results corroborate those investigations that showed no influence of the compound on T cell effector mechanisms. The attenuation of humoral immunophenomena, however, suggest a very specific point of action within the immune system by Ciamexone.
Phorbol ester-induced enhancement in lytic activity of CD8+ splenic T cells from low-dose melphalan-treated MOPC-315-tumor bearers.	We have previously shown that while spleen cells from untreated mice bearing a large MOPC-315 tumor are not cytotoxic in vitro for MOPC-315 tumor cells, spleen cells obtained from such mice on day 7 after low-dose melphalan (L-phenylalanine mustard); L-PAM therapy exert a substantial anti-MOPC-315 cytotoxicity [Mokyr et al. (1989) Cancer Res 49: 4597]. Here we show that this anti-MOPC-315 lytic activity is evident by day 5, and peaks on day 7 after the low-dose chemotherapy, at a time when the mice are actively engaged in tumor eradication. Short-term exposure of spleen cells from mice bearing a MOPC-315 tumor and treated with low-dose L-PAM (L-PAM TuB mice) to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) was found to enhance greatly the ability of these spleen cells to lyse MOPC-315 tumor cells. The highest level of anti-MOPC-315 cytotoxicity was obtained when spleen cells from tumor-bearing mice that had received chemotherapy 7 days earlier were exposed to PMA at a concentration of 1-10 ng/ml. The exertion of the enhanced anti-MOPC-315 lytic activity by L-PAM TuB spleen cells exposed to PMA was found to require CD8+, but not CD4+, T cells. The apparent specificity of the lytic activity exerted by the PMA-stimulated L-PAM TuB spleen cells was illustrated not only by the inability of the spleen cells to lyse an allogeneic, antigenically unrelated thymoma (EL4), but also by their relatively weak lytic activity for two antigenically related syngeneic plasmacytomas. In addition, when EL4 target cells were admixed with MOPC-315 tumor cells, the lytic activity triggered in the L-PAM TuB spleen cells by the MOPC-315 tumor cells plus PMA was not effective in lysing the antigenically unrelated target cells. Moreover, even in the presence of the calcium-specific ionophore, ionomycin, L-PAM TuB spleen cells exposed to PMA were unable to lyse the EL4 target cells. Thus, fresh CD8+ splenic T cells from L-PAM TuB mice that are in the process of eradicating a large MOPC-315 tumor as a consequence of low-dose L-PAM therapy can be triggered with PMA to exert enhanced lytic activity against MOPC-315 tumor cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Selective stimulation of human T cells with streptococcal erythrogenic toxins A and B.	Streptococcal exotoxins have been implicated in the pathogenesis of a toxic shock-like syndrome and scarlet fever. Previous studies have demonstrated that these toxins are potent stimulators of human T cells and have structural homology to staphylococcal enterotoxins. In the current study, we investigated the mechanism by which streptococcal erythrogenic toxins type A (SPEA) and B (SPEB) activate T cells and compared it with anti-CD3 and the known "superantigen" staphylococcal enterotoxin B. SPEA was found to selectively activate T cells bearing V beta 8, V beta 12, and V beta 14, whereas SPEB selectively activated T cells bearing V beta 2 and V beta 8. Furthermore, fibroblasts transfected with MHC class II molecules were capable of presenting SPEA and SPEB to purified T cells. The T cell response to these toxins, however, was not MHC-restricted. Although the streptococcal exotoxins stimulated both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, SPEA but not SPEB stimulated the CD4+ T cell subset proportionately more than the CD8+ T cell subset. Our results indicate that SPEA and SPEB, like the staphylococcal enterotoxins, are superantigens and suggest a mechanism by which they may mediate particular systemic syndromes associated with streptococcal infections.
The superantigen Pseudomonas exotoxin A requires additional functions from accessory cells for T lymphocyte proliferation.	We have examined the functions required of accessory cells (AC) for murine thymocyte proliferation induced by Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE) and have compared these functions to those required of a known superantigen, staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB). We demonstrate that PE, like SEB, preferentially stimulates PNA+ thymocytes expressing a specific V beta element within the T cell receptor. However, PE requires functions from AC that are distinct from those required by SEB. AC treated with paraformaldehyde (PCHO) prior to stimulation supported thymocyte proliferation induced by SEB but not PE. However, when AC were treated with PCHO subsequent to stimulation with PE, thymocyte proliferation was observed, which suggests that PE requires antigen processing in addition to presentation. Furthermore, treatment of AC with lysosomotropic agents abrogated thymocyte proliferation induced by PE but not SEB. Antibodies to MHC class II molecules inhibited thymocyte proliferation induced by both PE and SEB. In addition, we observed that interleukin 1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) participated in the proliferation of thymocytes induced by PE but not SEB. Thus, our data indicate that PE is a unique microbial superantigen that requires additional AC functions for T lymphocyte proliferation.
Memory T cell-mediated resistance to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in innately susceptible and resistant mice.	The memory T cell immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection was examined in strains of mice which vary in their natural susceptibility to Mycobacterium bovis BCG infection. Naturally susceptible (NS) C57BL/6 and naturally resistant (NR) B6D2 F1 hybrid mice were infected with a sublethal dose of M. tuberculosis and then given antibiotic therapy beginning 2 weeks postinfection. T cells from both strains of mice transferred significant levels of resistance to syngeneic mice challenged aerogenically with M. tuberculosis. This memory response was not substantially reduced by depletion of either L3T4+ or Lyt2+ T cells from the donor mice but was ablated by depletion of both T cell subsets. Cyclophosphamide pretreatment of C57BL/6 memory T cell donors also ablated the resistance transferred to recipient mice. In contrast, B6D2 memory T cells were not affected by cyclophosphamide treatment, suggesting that differences may exist in the metabolic state of the memory T cells in the two donor strains, despite the fact that they both develop similar levels of acquired resistance to a subsequent tuberculous challenge.
In vivo inhibition of granulopoiesis in acute inflammation requires T lymphocyte integrity.	In previous studies, we have shown that mice undergoing an inflammatory reaction induced by subcutaneous (s.c.) implantation of copper rods elaborate humoral factors that initially enhance, and subsequently inhibit, diffusion chamber (DC) granulopoiesis. In order to quantify the inhibition of DC granulopoiesis after inflammation, one to three copper rods were implanted s.c. either at the same place (1 abscess), or at different sites (multiple abscesses). There was an inverse relationship between the increase in the number of abscesses, and the number of DC granulocytic cells measured in the inhibitory phase. To investigate the role of T lymphocytes in the release of putative inhibitory factor(s) that act on DC cells, cyclosporin A (CyA), a T lymphocyte function inhibitor, was given orally each day (0.75 mg) to mice, starting two days before copper implantation. CyA abrogated the inflammation-related inhibition on DC spleen colony-forming units (CFU-s), granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-gm), and total cell production. To confirm these results, DC were implanted in T cell deficient nude mice where no inhibition of DC cells was observed after inflammation. In conclusion, our data suggest that the in vivo inhibition of granulopoiesis is related to the level of the inflammatory stimulus and requires the functional integrity of T cells.
Cyclosporine A and prednisolone inhibit lectin- and alloantigen-induced release of sCD8: correlation with proliferative responses.	It has been shown previously that there is a strong correlation between the in vitro release of soluble CD8 glycoprotein (sCD8) and CD8+ T lymphocyte activation. In the present study, the lectin stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) induced a dose-dependent release of sCD8 which correlated with the magnitude of CD8 lymphocyte activation as measured by the expression of the interleukin 2 (IL-2) receptor and HLA-DR antigen and of the T cell proliferative responses. Both the proliferative responses and the release of sCD8 were inhibited by cyclosporine A (CyA) and prednisolone (PRED) in a concentration-dependent manner. When the immunosuppressants were present for only 60 min before the initiation of the cultures, an inhibitory effect was also seen, but this was maximal only when the agents were added at the initiation of the culture period; when the addition of CyA or PRED was delayed for either 24 or 48 hr after the initiation of the culture, the degree of inhibition of the proliferative response was greatly reduced. However, there was a significant inhibition of sCD8 release by CyA even when it was added 48 hr after the culture initiation. The addition of recombinant IL-2 did not affect the lectin-induced sCD8 release. The inhibition of the lectin-induced proliferative response and sCD8 release by PRED, but not that by CyA, was reversed by the recombinant IL-2. Alloantigen stimulation also induced sCD8 release and this release was inhibited both by CyA and by PRED. These data, together with the known effects of CyA on differentiation, clonal amplification, and activation of CD8 T lymphocytes, suggest that in vitro sCD8 release occurs during the early stages of activation of CD8+ cytotoxic T cells.
Combination of all-trans retinoic acid and a human papillomavirus therapeutic vaccine suppresses the number and function of immature myeloid cells and enhances antitumor immunity.	Despite advances in the development of human papillomavirus (HPV) prophylactic vaccines, little progress has been made in the field of therapeutic vaccines in recent years. In the present study, we found a significant accumulation of immature myeloid cells (ImC) in large TC-1 tumors and demonstrated that a HPV therapeutic vaccine restored antitumor immune responses with the correction of aberrant myeloid cell differentiation by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Our study demonstrated that combining ATRA with vaccination not only decreased the number of Gr-1+ CD11b+ ImC, but for the first time also suppressed the function of Gr-1+ CD11b+ ImC with decreased expression of CD80. Furthermore, large numbers of CD11c+ CD80+, CD11c+ CD86+, and CD11c+ MHCII+ mature dendritic cells were recruited. The combination therapy generated significantly increased numbers of functional E7-specific T cells with elevated interferon- secretion and enhanced cytotoxic T-cell activity. These findings suggest potential clinical benefits for the combined use of ATRA and HPV therapeutic vaccines.
Increased expression of CD154 and FAS in SLE patients' lymphocytes.	An increased level of apoptotic material and B cell activation leading to autoantibody production are hallmarks of systemic lupus erythematoses (SLE). Increased FAS expression, apoptosis, and CD154-mediated signaling, enabling TB cell interaction are involved in the pathogenesis of SLE. This study addresses the expression profile of CD154 and FAS in the peripheral blood of patients with SLE, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and normal healthy control donors. Surface markers on peripheral blood T and B cells from patients and healthy control donors were assessed using flow cytometry. The expression of CD154 and FAS were significantly increased in T and B cells of SLE patients as compared to healthy control donors and RA patients. In SLE and RA patients, FAS expression strongly correlated with CD154 expression on T cells, which was not found in healthy control donors. FAS expression was also associated with the occurrence of anti-DNA antibodies. We demonstrate high CD154 and FAS expression as a characteristic feature of SLE. This pattern may reflect simultaneous activation of apoptosis and activation of BT cell interaction in SLE.
Effect of sulfur mustard on murine lymphocytes.	The effect on spleen cells of a single in vivo treatment with sulfur mustard was analyzed in mice 1 week after intoxication. A marked decrease in the number of total spleen cells was observed in mice receiving high doses of sulfur mustard. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that B-lymphocytes were relatively more affected than T-lymphocytes by this toxic compound. However, the function of remaining B-cells, measured by thymidine incorporation and immunoglobulin secretion in the presence of lipopolysaccharide, was not significantly impaired. In addition, sulfur mustard did not depress T-lymphocyte function since their proliferation in response to concanavalin A or to an anti-CD3 antibody was not affected by the treatment. These results suggest that whereas some observations reported in patients can be found in a murine model, additional in vitro studies with human lymphocytes could more adequately provide further information on sulfur-mustard-induced alterations of the immune system.
Stimulation by alcohols of cyclic AMP metabolism in human leukocytes. Possible role of cyclic AMP in the anti-inflammatory effects of ethanol.	In this study ethanol and certain other short-chain aryl (benzyl and phenethyl) and aliphatic (methyl, propyl, butyl, and amyl) alcohols produced up to 10-fold increases in cyclic AMP (cAMP) concentrations in purified human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Ethanol concentrations as low as 80 mg/dl produced significant elevations in lymphocyte cAMP. Significant but less marked augmentation of cAMP in response to alcohols was observed in human platelets, human granulocytes, and rabbit alveolar macrophages. The mechanism of the alcohol-induced cAMP accumulation is probably secondary to membrane perturbation and consequent activation of adenylate cyclase, because ethanol directly stimulated this enzyme in lymphocyte membrane preparations but had no effect on lymphocyte phosphodiesterase activity. Lysosomal enzyme release, by phagocytosing human leukocytes, and aminoisobutyric acid transport in mitogen-stimulated human lymphocytes were shown to be inhibited by ethanol and other alcohols at concentrations which also elevate cAMP. In general, the magnitude of the inhibition of these inflammatory processes correlated with the ability of the alcohol to elevate cAMP concentrations. Lectin-and anti-thymocyte globulin-induced lymphocyte mitogenesis was inhibited or unaffected depending upon both the concentration and type of mitogenic stimulus and the concentration and type of alcohol utilized. Inflammatory mediator release from rat mast cells also was inhibited by ethanol and certain other alcohols, but whole cell cAMP was not increased. Ethanol may alter these inflammatory responses and other biologic processes at least in part by modulating cellular levels of cAMP.
The immunocorrective therapy of patients with viral hepatitis A living under the adverse conditions of an industrial region]	A study is presented of 356 patients with viral hepatitis A (age: 16-35 years); 256 of them lived in a zone of industrially caused contaminations of the atmospheric air and 100 (control group) lived in rural districts. Of the main group 106 patients were given during the acute period basis treatment plus quercetin, splenin, sodium nucleinate and glyciram. It was found that in those living in ecologically unfavourable regions viral hepatitis A had a more severe course, the disease was protracted, recurrences were more frequent, immune disorders were pronounced and long-standing. Use of immunocorrective and hepatoprotecting treatment resulted in an essential improvement of the clinical and immunological indices.
Increased vitamin E intake restores fish-oil-induced suppressed blastogenesis of mitogen-stimulated T lymphocytes.	We sought to determine whether fish-oil supplementation would suppress blastogenesis in vitro of concanavalin A (ConA)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and, if so, whether it could be reversed with increased intake of vitamin E. Healthy males ate a controlled basal diet providing a total of 40% of energy from fat when fed in conjunction with 15 g/d of either placebo oil (PO) or fish-oil concentrate (FOC) fortified with 15 mg alpha-tocopherol/d for three periods. The subjects were supplemented with PO for 10 wk (PO), with FOC for 10 wk (FOC), and with FOC plus an additional 200 mg alpha-tocopherol/d for 8 wk (FOC+E). During FOC supplementation mitogenic responsiveness of PBMCs to ConA was suppressed, but this effect was reversed by concurrent supplementation with all-rac-alpha-tocopherol (FOC+E). There was a significant positive relationship (P less than 0.001) between plasma alpha-tocopherol concentrations and responsiveness of T lymphocytes to ConA.
Lymphoproliferative responses to synthetic peptides from merozoite ring-infected erythrocyte surface antigen and circumsporozoite protein: a longitudinal study during a falciparum malaria episode.	Proliferative responses of peripheral blood lymphocytes to synthetic peptides representing major epitopes of two malaria antigens (the merozoite ring-infected erythrocyte surface antigen and the sporozoite circumsporozoite protein) were investigated in Madagascar during a clinical Plasmodium falciparum episode. Thirty-seven patients greater than 10 years of age were enrolled at the beginning of the malaria transmission season and followed for four weeks. At enrollment, when the subjects presented with an acute infection, lymphocytes recovered from approximately 30% of them proliferated after peptide stimulation. These proliferative responses decreased sharply one and two weeks after treatment, with less than 10% responding to each peptide. Four weeks after treatment, the responses were only partially restored. The amplitude of these variations was not related to the initial parasitemia. At the individual level, proliferative response to each peptide varied greatly during the followup period, and this variation was unrelated to the presence of parasites in the blood.
Synthesis of peptide analogues using the multipin peptide synthesis method.	Modification of the multipin peptide synthesis method which allows the simultaneous synthesis of large numbers of different peptide analogues is described. Peptides were assembled on polyethylene pins derivatized with a 4-(beta-alanyloxymethyl)benzoate (beta-Ala-HMB) handle. For comparative purposes, peptides were also assembled on the diketopiperazine-forming handle N epsilon-(beta-alanyl)lysylprolyloxylactate. In model studies it was demonstrated that beta-Ala-HMB-linked peptides were cleaved from polyethylene pins with dilute sodium hydroxide or 4% methylamine/water to yield analogues with beta-Ala-free acid (beta-Ala-CO2H) and beta-Ala-methylamide (beta-Ala-CONHCH3), respectively. To assess the suitability of this approach for T-cell determinant analysis, analogues of a known T-cell determinant were synthesized with the various C-terminal endings. Peptides were characterized by amino acid analysis and fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry. HPLC of the crude cleaved peptides indicated that 22 of the 24 peptides were greater than 95% pure. These crude peptide solutions were nontoxic in sensitive cell culture assays without further purification. All three cleavage procedures gave comparable activities in T-cell proliferation assays. These results demonstrate the potential of the multipin peptide synthesis method for the production of large numbers of different peptide analogues.
Stimulation of starfish coelomocytes by interleukin-1.	Echinoderms have coelomocytes that are capable of non-specific phagocytosis of pathogens and cellular debris. It has been suggested that cytokines, analogous to vertebrate interleukins, are involved in mediating these responses, though how they may function is not known. Using a mouse thymocyte proliferation assay we confirm that cytokine activity, which can be blocked with antibodies to mammalian IL-1 alpha, can be extracted from coelomic fluid of the starfish Pisaster ochraceus. A subset of starfish coelomocytes in primary culture will readily phagocytose bacteria added to cultures. In a microscopic assay the proportion of coelomocytes that will phagocytose bacteria increases significantly when cultures are treated with recombinant IL-1 alpha, yet the number of phagosomes per cell remains constant. We propose that endogenous interleukins stimulate recruitment of phagocytic cells as part of the non-specific cellular defence mechanism of asteroids.
Cyclosporine-induced autoimmunity and immune hyperreactivity.	Cyclosporine (CS) is a potent immunosuppressive agent which under some circumstances paradoxically augments DTH responses, aggravates some autoimmune diseases, and induces specific forms of autoimmunity. The enhancement of DTH and other immune responses is closely related to the timing of CS administration relative to immunization. CS inhibits IL-2 production (and several other lymphokines) at a pretranscriptional level, but does not usually prevent the antigen-specific priming of T cells, such that T cells may be poised to respond as soon as CS is withdrawn. Thus, accelerated GVHD and allograft rejection may occur after withdrawal of CS. CS has been shown to aggravate and/or induce relapse in several autoimmune diseases including collagen-induced arthritis, EAE, autoimmune thyroiditis, uveitis in SDA chickens, and an autoimmune form of myocarditis in mice. CS may enhance immune responses by inactivating suppressor cells, by altering Th1/Th2 antagonism (e.g., CS promotes a protective Th1-type response in BALB/c mice infected with Leishmania major), or by promoting T cell activation through a CS-resistant IL-2-independent T cell activation/differentiation pathway. At least three forms of CS-induced autoimmunity have been described: Syngeneic or autologous GVHD which occurs in CS-treated syngeneic or autologous bone marrow transplant recipients after CS is withdrawn in rats, mice, and humans; a systemic autoimmune disease with polyarthritis and glomerulonephritis which occurs in irradiated CBA/N mice treated with CS; and organ-specific autoimmune diseases which occur in mice treated with CS during the neonatal period. The precise mechanisms by which CS induces these autoimmune diseases are not clear, however, CS affects immune tolerance at three levels. CS induces thymic medullary involution with loss of medullary Ia+ cells, and appears to at least partially block the transition from double positive (CD4+CD8+) to single positive (mature type) thymocytes. In syngeneic bone marrow chimeras, CS appears to inhibit the intrathymic deletion of clones with relatively low affinity, but not those with high affinity, to self antigens. CS appears to inhibit the action of suppressor T cells which normally maintain an innate form of resistance to autoimmunity. Finally, CS has been shown to prevent the development of T cell clonal anergy. There is redundancy in immune tolerance mechanisms, i.e., clonal deletion, clonal anergy, and suppressor cells can each maintain tolerance to similar antigens, such that it is likely that CS must cripple more than one tolerance mechanism for autoimmunity to occur.
Expression of Hanganutziu-Deicher antigen in activated human T lymphocytes.	Hanganutziu-Deicher (HD) antigen is a heterophile antigen that is widely distributed in many animals other than humans and chickens and is highly immunogenic in humans and chickens. In the present study, we demonstrated expression of HD-antigenic glycoproteins in activated T lymphocytes by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. Treatment with IL-2 plus PMA induced 29kD glycoprotein antigen detected under reducing condition. It contained sialic acid epitope of HD antigen because of the expression being neuraminidase-sensitive. Treatment with PMA plus A 23187 or PHA treatment and then PHA plus IL-2 treatment also induced two proteins of Mr 50kD and 70kD. These expressions were not detected in all individuals examined. These results indicate that HD antigen is an activated T cell antigen and expressed as an isoantigen as it is expressed in cancerous tissues from some patients.
Universality of c-fos transcriptional regulation: the Dyad Symmetry Element mediates activation by PMA in T lymphocytes.	We here have delineated the regulatory sequences responsible for c-fos transcriptional activation in human primary T lymphoblasts and in a human tumor T cell line (Jurkat), using transient transfection assays. Our results indicate that, as it has been demonstrated for fibroblastic or epithelial cells, the Dyad Symmetry Element is necessary and sufficient to confer responsiveness to an heterologous promoter in both cell types. Protein binding to this element was constitutive, as assessed by gel shift assays. These results suggest that c-fos transcriptional regulation occurs through a widely conserved mechanism in highly differentiated tissues.
The missing link between indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase mediated antibacterial and immunoregulatory effects.	The interferon (IFN)-gamma-inducible tryptophan degrading enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) has not only been recognized as a potent antimicrobial effector molecule for the last 25 years but was recently found also to have potent immunoregulatory properties. In this study, we provide evidence that both tryptophan starvation and production of toxic tryptophan metabolites are involved in the immunoregulation mediated by IDO, whereas tryptophan starvation seems to be the only antibacterial effector mechanism. A long-studied controversy in the IDO research field is the seemingly contradictory effect of IDO in the defence against infectious diseases. On the one hand, IFN-gamma-induced IDO activity mediates an antimicrobial effect, while at the same time IDO inhibits T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma production. Here, we suggest that both effects, dependent on the threshold for tryptophan, cooperate in a reasonable coherence. We found that the minimum concentration of tryptophan required for bacterial growth is 10-40-fold higher than the minimum concentration necessary for T-cell activation. Therefore, we suggest that during the first phase of infection the IDO-mediated tryptophan depletion has a predominantly antimicrobial effect whereas in the next stage, and with ongoing tryptophan degradation, the minimum threshold concentration of tryptophan for T-cell activation is undercut, resulting in an inhibition of T-cell growth and subsequent IDO activation.
Assessment of the inhibitory effect of immunosuppressive agents on rat T cell interferon-gamma production using an ELISPOT assay.	The immunospot (ELISPOT) assay has proven to be an efficient and sensitive method for the enumeration of single cells secreting antibodies or cytokines. Here we show that the generation of interferon-gamma producing cells (IFN-gamma pc) in rat spleen cell cultures stimulated with concanavalin A (ConA) is dose-dependently inhibited by a wide variety of immunosuppressants such as cyclosporin A, FK506, hydrocortisone, dexamethasone, azathioprine and ART-18, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) with established immunosuppressive activity in organ transplantation and autoimmunity. The minimal inhibitory concentration (m.i.c.) correlated well with the reported m.i.c. in the mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay and the therapeutically effective plasma levels in vivo. Our data indicate that the IFN-gamma-specific immunospot assay is a powerful tool for determining the potency of immunosuppressive agents in vitro and provides a simple and accurate method for screening large numbers of agents with suspected immunosuppressive properties. The assay may additionally prove to be of value for determining the therapeutically effective doses of immunosuppressants that should be administered in vivo.
T-cell regulation of neutrophil infiltrate at the early stages of a murine colitis model.	T-cells are a main target for antiinflammatory drugs in inflammatory bowel disease. As the innate immune system is also implicated in the pathogenesis of these diseases, T-cell suppressors may not only inhibit T-cell-dependent production of proinflammatory mediators but also affect innate immune cell function. Specifically, these drugs may impair innate immune cell recruitment and activation through inhibition of T-cells or act independent of T-cell modulation. We explored the extent of immune modulation by the T-cell inhibitor tacrolimus in a murine colitis model.
Oral administration of OKT3 monoclonal antibody to human subjects induces a dose-dependent immunologic effect in T cells and dendritic cells.	Parenteral OKT3 is used to treat transplant rejection and a humanized anti-CD3 Mab has shown positive clinical effects in new onset diabetes. Oral administration of anti-CD3 has not been tested in humans, but suppresses autoimmunity in animal models. Beta-glucosylceramide enhances NKT cell and regulatory T cell activity and enhances the effects of oral anti-CD3 in animals.
B-cell reconstitution and BAFF after alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) treatment of multiple sclerosis.	Treatment with alemtuzumab is highly effective in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis; however, 30% of patients develop autoimmunity. Alemtuzumab (previously called Campath 1-H) induces a prolonged T-cell lymphopenia with memory cells dominating the reconstituting T-cell pool for at least 3 months.
Igf-I stimulates in vivo thymopoiesis after stem cell transplantation in a child with Omenn syndrome.	Children with severe combined immunodeficiency who receive a T cell-depleted hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) have delayed immune reconstitution.
Deguelin suppresses cell proliferation via the inhibition of survivin expression and STAT3 phosphorylation in HTLV-1-transformed T cells.	Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive malignancy of peripheral T cells infected with human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). The prognosis of aggressive ATL patients remains poor because of its resistance to conventional chemotherapy. We examined the effect of deguelin, a naturally occurring rotenoid, on HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines, KUT-1 and MT-2 cells. We found that deguelin suppressed cell proliferation and induced cell death in these cells. Immunoblot analysis showed the inhibition of survivin expression and signal transducers, and activators of transcription (STAT) 3 phosphorylation of both cells. We also observed the cleavage of caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in deguelin-treated cells, indicating that deguelin induces caspase-dependent apoptosis in these cells. Furthermore, proteasome inhibitor MG132 prevented the down-regulation of survivin expression and STAT3 dephosphorylation by deguelin, suggesting that the action mechanism of deguelin involves the degradation of survivin and phosphorylated STAT3 through the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway. Our data indicate that deguelin presents a potent anti-proliferative effect in part via the down-regulation of survivin expression and STAT3 phosphorylation in HTLV-1-transformed cells. Deguelin merits further investigation as a potential chemotherapeutic agent for ATL.
Long-term cerebrospinal fluid and blood lymphocyte dynamics after rituximab for pediatric opsoclonus-myoclonus.	Opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome (OMS) is an autoimmune paraneoplastic disorder characterized by B and T cell abnormalities in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and propensity for relapse. The study aim was to assess whether rituximab-induced B cell ablation in CSF outlasts repopulation in blood and if there are changes in other lymphocyte subsets.
SKAP1 is dispensable for chemokine-induced migration of primary T-cells.	Immune adaptors SLP-76, ADAP and SKAP1 (SKAP-55) play central roles in anti-CD3 induced 'inside-out' signalling for LFA-1 activation and ICAM-1 adhesion. However, it has been unclear whether SKAP1 is also required for chemokine-induced T-cell motility. In this study, we found that SDF-1 and CCL21 induced similar motility in SKAP1 deficient (SKAP1-/-) and wild type (SKAP1+/+) resting, primary T-cells. In addition, the speed (i.e. 13 microM/min), tracking distance (i.e. length) and displacement values (i.e. direct distance between the start and the end positions of cell movement) in response to SDF1 were similar for SKAP1-/- and SKAP1+/+ primary, activated T-cells. Relatively high strength anti-CD3 ligation also arrested the migration (i.e. stop-signal) of resting SKAP1+/+ and SKAP1-/- T-cells in the presence of SDF-1 and CCL21. These data demonstrate that contrary to its central role in anti-CD3 induced LFA-1 adhesion, the response of primary T-cells to SDF-1 and CCL21 is not profoundly dependent on SKAP1 expression.
Shockwaves increase T-cell proliferation and IL-2 expression through ATP release, P2X7 receptors, and FAK activation.	Shockwaves elicited by transient pressure disturbances are used to treat musculoskeletal disorders. Previous research has shown that shockwave treatment affects T-cell function, enhancing T-cell proliferation and IL-2 expression by activating p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. Here we investigated the signaling pathway by which shockwaves mediate p38 MAPK phosphorylation. We found that shockwaves at an intensity of 0.18 mJ/mm(2) induce the release of extracellular ATP from human Jurkat T-cells at least in part by affecting cell viability. ATP released into the extracellular space stimulates P2X7-type purinergic receptors that induce the activation of p38 MAPK and of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) by phosphorylation on residues Tyr397 and Tyr576/577. Elimination of released ATP with apyrase or inhibition of P2X7 receptors with the antagonists KN-62 or suramin significantly weakens FAK phosphorylation, p38 MAPK activation, IL-2 expression, and T-cell proliferation. Conversely, addition of exogenous ATP causes phosphorylation of FAK and p38 MAPK. Silencing of FAK expression also reduces these cell responses to shockwave treatment. We conclude that shockwaves enhance p38 MAPK activation, IL-2 expression, and T-cell proliferation via the release of cellular ATP and feedback mechanisms that involve P2X7 receptor activation and FAK phosphorylation.
Analysis of the conformation and stability of Escherichia coli derived recombinant human interleukin 4 by circular dichroism.	The conformation and stability of Escherichia coli derived recombinant human interleukin 4 (rhuIL-4) have been examined by circular dichroism (CD). Protein unfolding was detected by ellipticity changes at 222 nm with increasing concentrations of guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl). The unfolding midpoint ([GdnHCl]1/2) was 3.7 M, the free energy of unfolding, (delta GDH2O), was 5.9 kcal/mol and the dependence of delta GD on the GdnHCl concentration (m) was 1.6 (kcal/mol)/M. This unfolding was demonstrated to be reversible upon removal of the GdnHCl by dialysis. Analysis of the far-UV CD spectrum indicated the presence of a high percentage of alpha-helical structure (ca. 73%). A small change in ellipticity was noted over the pH range 1.9-9.6, suggesting that the protein undergoes a minor conformational change with an apparent pKa of 4.17. Virtually complete biological activity, measured in vitro in a T-cell proliferation assay, was recovered following exposure to extreme values of pH (i.e., pH 3 and 10). An analysis of the near-UV CD spectrum indicated that the single tryptophan residue at position 91 was unconstrained and most likely exposed to the solvent. Titration with 4,4'-dithiodipyridine and 2-nitrothiosulfobenzoate established that the six cysteine residues in rhuIL-4 were involved in intramolecular disulfide linkages. These data support that rhuIL-4 has a highly stable three-dimensional structure.
Apoptosis in immunocytes induced by several types of pesticides.	Several types of pesticides, such as organophosphates and organochlorines, can induce thymocyte apoptosis, resulting in thymic atrophy and predisposing the highly sensitive fetal immune system to loss of tolerance to self-antigens and subsequent increased risk for autoimmune disease and allergies. In the studies here, mouse primary thymocytes and a human acute T-cell leukemia cell line (J45.01) were employed to examine potential thymocyte apoptosis induced by several types of chemicals, including several commonly-used pesticides. Thymocytes and J45.01 cells were treated for 4 or 8 hr with varying doses of metamidophos, parathion, PNMC, or methoxychlor; dexamethasone was used as a positive control. Apoptosis, cell viability, the proportion of Annexin-V+ cells, the activities of caspases 3/7, 8, and 9, and the levels of DNA fragmentation in both the J45.01 cells and thymocytes were then examined. The results here show that with both cell types, there was an increase in the proportion of annexin-V+ cells and levels of DNA fragmentation following exposure to parathion, PNMC, methoxychlor, or dexamethasone (positive control); however, the levels of sensitivity appeared to differ between the cell types. Furthermore, caspase-7 and -8 activities also differed between the J45.01 cells and thymocytes when treated with PNMC, methoxychlor, or dexamethasone. A more precise characterization of these inter-cellular differences is the logical next step in our studies of the effects of these (and other) pesticides on immune cell integrity. These specific types of follow-on mechanistic experiments are currently underway in our laboratories.
Negative regulators of in vivo erythropoiesis: interaction of IL-1 alpha and TNF-alpha and the lack of a strict requirement for T or NK cells for their activity.	The macrophage-derived cytokines interleukin 1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) have significant effects on hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo. Studies in our laboratory have demonstrated that, in vivo, IL-1 alpha and TNF-alpha suppress late stage erythropoiesis while stimulating the macrophage-granulocyte lineage. In the present studies, we have examined the mechanisms of these effects. Normal mice were treated with a single dose of either recombinant murine IL-1 alpha or TNF-alpha (1.25 x 10(6) or 10(5) U/mouse i.p., respectively) with or without pretreatment of the animals with monoclonal anti-murine TNF-alpha antibody at a dose that has been shown to be capable of abrogating endogenous TNF activity induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). After 5 days, effects on late-stage erythropoiesis and macrophage formation were measured by determining the number of their progenitors, erythroid colony-forming units (CFU-E) and macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-M), in the spleen. Anti-TNF-alpha antibody treatment significantly abrogated CFU-E suppression by IL-1 alpha but had no effect on the IL-1 alpha-induced stimulation of CFU-M. IL-1 alpha and TNF-alpha suppressed CFU-E in vivo and stimulated CFU-M in the spleens of T-cell- and natural killer (NK)-cell-deficient mice. Neither cytokine suppressed CFU-E colony formation in vitro. These results demonstrate that IL-1 alpha-induced suppression of CFU-E is mediated through induction of TNF-alpha, IL-1 alpha stimulation of CFU-M was independent of TNF-alpha, and the in vivo hematopoietic effects of these cytokines do not strictly require intact T- and NK-cell function for activity.
Ambient level ozone effects on subpopulations of thymocytes and spleen T lymphocytes.	The effects of ozone on thymocyte and spleen T lymphocyte subpopulations were studied. Balb/c mice were exposed to clean air or to 0.3 +/- 0.05 ppm ozone for 1-3 wk. Thymocytes and spleen T cells were stained with fluorochrome conjugated monoclonal antibodies against surface differentiation markers and/or propidium iodide for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The cells were then analyzed by fluorescence activated cell sorter. The percentages of certain thymocyte and spleen T lymphocyte subtypes and DNA synthesizing spleen T cells were lower following 1 wk of ozone exposure. After 3 wk exposure, the thymocyte percentages were higher in ozone-exposed mice, whereas the absolute number remained lower, and spleen T lymphocytes showed no changes. The findings suggest that short-term ozone inhalation can affect the T cell immune system adversely, particularly the CD4+ cells.
IGG-stimulated and LPS-stimulated monocytes elaborate transforming growth factor type beta (TGF-beta) in active form.	Mononuclear cells (MNC) stimulated either with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or with surface-adsorbed IgG elaborated significant amounts of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) bioactivity, as well as immunoenzymatically detectable TNF-alpha and interleukin-1 beta. (IL1-beta). In contrast, IgG-stimulated cells released little IL1 bioactivity, but released an IL1 inhibitor, as determined by the thymocyte costimulatory assay (LAF assay). This inhibition was not due to an inhibitory effect of cyclooxygenase products, e.g. prostaglandin-E2 in the LAF assay. In contrast, antibodies against transforming growth factor type beta (TGF-beta), which is an important inhibitor of the LAF assay, augmented the LAF activity of supernatants from LPS-stimulated and IgG-stimulated MNC. Anti-TGF-beta-modulated LAF inhibition was enhanced by acid treatment of supernatants from mononuclear cells, but not of those from purified monocytes. Antibody blocking experiments point for the first time to a TGF-beta species other than type 1 as a monocyte-derived TGF-beta activity. Thus, TGF-beta released in active form from monocytes may be the more important antagonist of IL1 than cyclooxygenase-derived mediators. It implies that the LAF assay, in the absence of anti-TGF-beta antibodies, is an inadequate indicator of IL1 activity.
Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF-1) gene expression in human T-lymphocyte clones.	Macrophage colony stimulating factor (CSF-1) is one of several cytokines that control the differentiation, survival, and proliferation of monocytes and macrophages. A set of 11 human T-cell clones, chosen for their phenotypic diversity, were tested for their ability to express CSF-1 mRNA. After 5 hours of stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) + calcium ionophore (Cal), all T-cell clones expressed a major 4-kb transcript, a less abundant 2-kb transcript, and several other minor species. This pattern of expression is typical for CSF-1 mRNAs. Furthermore, of the two alloreactive T-cell clones analyzed, only one showed a definitive message for CSF-1 on specific antigenic stimulation, but with delayed kinetics and less efficiency. Both conditions of stimulation induced the release of CSF-1 protein by T cells in the culture medium. Together, these findings demonstrate for the first time that normal T cells are able to produce CSF-1, previous reports being limited to two cases of tumoral cells of the T-cell lineage.
Administration of IL-7 to mice with cyclophosphamide-induced lymphopenia accelerates lymphocyte repopulation.	Lymphopenia was induced in mice by a single injection of cyclophosphamide. IL-7 or a control protein were administered to the mice twice daily and the cellularity and composition of the spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, and thymus were determined at various time points thereafter. In comparison to the control cyclophosphamide-treated mice, animals receiving cyclophosphamide and IL-7 had an accelerated regeneration of splenic and lymph node cellularity. There was no significant difference in the rate of recovery of the bone marrow and thymus of the control and IL-7-treated mice. Assessment of the pre-B cell compartment revealed a dramatic increase in total pre-B cell numbers in the spleen and bone marrow of the IL-7-treated mice as measured by both flow microfluorimetry and a pre-B cell colony-forming assay. This was followed in a few days by a significant increase in surface IgM+B cell numbers to levels above normal values in both the spleen and lymph node. IL-7 administration to cyclophosphamide-treated mice also resulted in an accelerated recovery of peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ cell numbers in the spleen and lymph node. The numbers of CD8+ cells were increased by twofold over normal levels in cyclophosphamide-treated mice receiving IL-7. Myeloid recovery was determined in cyclophosphamide treated mice by assessing the numbers of CFU-granulocyte-macrophage and Mac 1+ cells. There was no significant difference in myeloid recovery between cyclophosphamide-treated mice receiving IL-7 or control protein. These results suggest that administration of IL-7 after chemical-induced lymphopenia may have therapeutic benefits in shortening the period required to achieve normal lymphoid cellularity.
Impact of human myelin on the maturation and function of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells.	Macrophages and dendritic cells (DC) play an important role in the immunopathology of multiple sclerosis. We analyzed the impact of human myelin on monocyte-derived DC and describe their immunostimulatory capacity. Cells were grown on myelin and stimulated with LPS or a defined maturation cocktail. DC activation was analyzed by the expression of cell surface markers and the secretion of cytokines and chemokines. The immunostimulatory capacity of DC was assessed by allogeneic mixed-leukocyte reactions via proliferation. Additionally, their ability to bias T cells towards Th1, Th17 or Treg differentiation was investigated. We found that phagocytosis of myelin impaired the activation of DC, displayed by an impaired ability to stimulate allogeneic T cells, an increased production of TGF-beta1 and a diminished upregulation of CCR7 but did not affect the differentiation into T helper cell subsets. We hypothesize that myelin influences DC activation and plays a pivotal role in balancing immunity and tolerance.
Thimerosal induces calcium mobilization, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate synthesis and cytoplasmic alkalinization in rat thymus lymphocytes.	The effect of thimerosal on intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i), pH (pHi) and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (Fru 2,6-P2) in thymus lymphocytes was investigated. The effect of thimerosal on cell growth was also examined. Thimerosal produced a dose-dependent increase in [Ca2+]i, pHi and in the level of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate. Thimerosal was, however, unable to produce cell proliferation and inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation when cells were challenged with PHA and costimulator. In the absence of external calcium, thimerosal produced only a slight increase in [Ca2+]i. In Na(+)-containing buffer, thimerosal induced an initial acidification (0.05 +/- 0.01 pH units), followed by an alkalinization of 0.08 pH units/min, whereas in Na(+)-free media, pHi decreased 0.2 +/- 0.02 units and this acidification was maintained for more than 40 min. When external calcium was removed the initial acidification was unchanged and no further increase in pHi was observed. Polymyxin B, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, did not modify the initial thimerosal-induced acidification although pH returned to basal levels after 10 min. It was concluded that alkalinization induced by thimerosal is probably due to activation of the Na+/H+ exchanger and that changes in internal Ca2+, pH and metabolic rate are not sufficient to induce cellular proliferation. The mechanism by which thimerosal inhibits thymocyte proliferation remains to be clarified.
Deoxyadenosine-resistant human T lymphoblasts with elevated 5'-nucleotidase activity.	Although several different enzymes with 5'-nucleotidase activity have been described in mammalian cells, their functions in nucleotide metabolism have not been clearly distinguished. In the present experiments, a mutant human T lymphoblastoid cell line (CEM-dAdoR) was selected specifically for resistance to deoxyadenosine toxicity. Compared to parental CEM cells, the variant had 4-fold elevated ATP-activated cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase activity. Other enzymes of potential importance for deoxyadenosine metabolism were indistinguishable in the two cell types. In medium supplemented with the adenosine deaminase inhibitor deoxycoformycin, the T cells with increased 5'-nucleotidase accumulated less nucleotides from exogenously added deoxyadenosine, or 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, than did parental T lymphocytes. These metabolic changes were associated with resistance to the growth inhibitory effects of these nucleosides, and also to deoxyguanosine and to 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosylguanine. The T cells with elevated 5'-nucleotidase activity formed more 2',3'-dideoxyadenosine than did parental cells, in deoxycoformycin-supplemented medium. The accumulation of 2',3'-dideoxyadenosine 5'-triphosphate from 2',3'-dideoxyinosine was similarly augmented in the mutant. These data establish the importance of the cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase for the metabolism of purine 2'-deoxyribonucleosides, arabinonucleosides and 2',3'-dideoxyribonucleosides in T lymphoblasts.
Glucocorticoids inhibit fructose 2,6-bisphosphate synthesis in rat thymocytes. Opposite effect of cycloheximide.	The content of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (Fru(2,6)P2) and lactate production in triamcinolone acetonide-treated rats thymocytes was studied. The effect in vitro of corticosterone and dexamethasone on normal thymocytes was also examined. Glucocorticoids produced a marked decrease in Fru(2,5)P2 content and lactate production. The largest effect was observed with triamcinolone acetonide (7.5 mg per kg body weight), which after 20 h of treatment produced over 90% of inhibition. This change was accompanied by the decrease of both phosphofructokinase-1 and -2 activities and ATP levels, without modifications of hexoses phosphate content. The inhibitory actions of glucocorticoids were abolished by cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis. Furthermore this drug, by itself, increased Fru(2,6)P2 content by more than 50% compared with the controls.
Activation of in vitro proliferation of human T cells by a synthetic peptide of toxic shock syndrome toxin 1.	A 21-mer synthetic peptide (KGEKVDLNTKRTKKSQHTSEG), designated TSST-1(58-78), was constructed from the primary structure of the toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1). The peptide reacted with a panel of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to whole TSST-1 in solid-phase immunoassays. TSST-1(58-78) promoted the in vitro proliferation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in a dose-dependent manner. Minimum dose required for stimulation (P less than or equal to .05 microM) was 0.75 microM peptide. This mitogenic effect was abrogated by incubation of the peptide with MAbs to whole TSST-1 before addition to PBMC. The ability of TSST-1(58-78) to stimulate the proliferation of highly purified resting human T cells was analyzed. Significant proliferation (P less than or equal to .01) was observed only in the presence of increasing populations of monocytes added to the cultures. Adherent human monocytes exposed to TSST-1(58-78) released tumor necrosis factor. Thus, some of the immunoregulatory properties attributed to TSST-1 are demonstrated by the region of the toxin represented by the peptide TSST-1(58-78).
Inhibition of T cell mitogenesis by nitrofurans.	A group of nitrofurans (5-nitro-2-furaldehyde, nifuroxime, nitrofurazone, nitrofurantoin, 5-nitro-2-furoic acid and 2-nitrofuran) were evaluated for inhibition of mitogenesis (DNA synthesis) in human peripheral blood T cells. T cells, either triggered by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) or in the presence of accessory cells, were activated with a specified mitogen [phytohemagglutin (PHA), concanavalin A (ConA), or anti-CD3] and the amount of tritiated thymidine incorporated into DNA was determined. The results obtained indicate that nitrofurans inhibit mitogenesis irrespective of activator. 5-Nitro-2-furaldehyde was much more inhibitory than the other compounds, while 2-nitrofuran was less inhibitory. When the aldehyde group (5-nitro-2-furaldehyde) was replaced by a carboxyl group (5-nitro-2-furoic acid), the inhibitory activity was also reduced greatly. These results show that while the nitro group alone confers inhibitory activity to the furan ring, the group at the 2 position is crucial. In general, the mitogenic response of purified T cells (lacking accessory cells) triggered by PMA (phorbol ester) was inhibited less than that of the T cell-accessory cell system. With the latter, 50% inhibition of T cell mitogenesis was achieved by nifuroxime, nitrofurazone, and nitrofurantoin at 45-51 and 34-39 microM with PHA and ConA respectively. When purified T cells were used, the values were 71-85 and 55-60 microM respectively. For a given drug concentration, mitogenesis was more inhibited when induced by ConA or anti-CD3 than by PHA. The importance of using a single cell system (purified T cells) was emphasized by the interesting finding that only this system showed enhancement of mitogenesis, up to 35-40% at low drug levels. With the exception of the nitrofuraldehyde, the nitrofurans at strongly inhibitory levels were only moderately cytotoxic, exhibiting 62-85% cell survival after exposure to drug for 68 hr. Our results suggest that nitrofurans inhibit T cell mitogenesis by a relatively non-toxic mechanism; these results are comparable to those obtained for mammalian cells under aerobic conditions.
Cell and receptor requirements for streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin T-cell mitogenicity.	Streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxins (SPEs) A, B, and C, like other members of the pyrogenic toxin family, are able to cause toxic shock-like syndromes. One of the major properties of these toxins is the ability to induce T-cell proliferation. Characterization of T cell mitogenicity associated with SPEs A, B, and C was undertaken. SPEs A, B, and C were mitogenic for C57BL10/SnJ and BALB/cWAT T cells, with activities differing in intensity depending on the mouse strain and toxin employed. SPE-induced, T-cell-proliferative activity was dependent on class II major histocompatibility complex molecules expressed on antigen-presenting cells. The abilities of SPEs A, B, and C to preferentially stimulate murine cells with certain T-cell receptor V beta s were investigated by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis. SPE A preferentially activated T cells expressing V beta 8 but not V beta 3, 6, or 11, while SPEs B and C preferentially stimulated T cells which did not express any of the tested V beta s.
Fluid replacement protection of rabbits challenged subcutaneous with toxic shock syndrome toxins.	Toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1) and streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin A (SPE A) belong to a family of pyrogenic toxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes, respectively. Both toxins are responsible for causing toxic shock syndrome (TSS) and related illnesses, clinically characterized by multiorgan involvement. The most severe TSS symptom is acute hypotension and shock after the initial febrile response. In this study, we examined possible mechanisms of shock development in TSS, particularly the role of T-cell proliferation, endotoxin enhancement by toxins, and capillary leakage. American Dutch belted rabbits, with subcutaneously implanted miniosmotic pumps filled with either TSST-1 or SPE A, served as the animal model. For both TSST-1 and SPE A-treated rabbits, administration of cyclosporin A prevented toxin-induced T-cell proliferation but failed to protect the rabbits. Polymyxin B treatment of rabbits, to neutralize endogenous endotoxin, partially protected rabbits from challenge with either exotoxin; two of six rabbits survived on day 2 when treated with only TSST-1, whereas six of six animals survived after challenge with TSST-1 and polymyxin B. Similarly, with SPE A-treated rabbits, only 1 of 10 animals without polymyxin B treatment survived on day 8, but 4 of 6 rabbits survived on day 8 when given polymyxin B. Fluid replacement was successful in preventing lethality. Twelve of 14 rabbits survived when given TSST-1 with fluid, and all rabbits treated with SPE A and fluid survived. Finally, by using miniosmotic pumps, staphylococcal exfoliative toxin A and concanavalin A were administered to rabbits in an attempt to induce lethality. These two T-cell mitogens caused T-cell proliferation but failed to induce lethality in rabbits. The data suggest that toxin interactions causing vascular leakage and to some extent endotoxin enhancement are of major importance in development of hypotension and shock in TSS. It appears that T-cell proliferation may not contribute significantly to the induction of shock and death.
Is cyclophilin involved in the immunosuppressive and nephrotoxic mechanism of action of cyclosporin A?	In this report we have approached two questions relating to the mechanism of action of cyclosporin A (CsA). First, we address whether the major cytosolic protein for CsA, cyclophilin, is directly involved in mediating the immunosuppressive activity of this drug, and, in particular, whether inhibition of this protein's peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) activity results in inhibition of murine T cell activation. Second, we ask whether the nephrotoxicity observed with CsA is related to inhibition of PPIase-dependent pathways in cells other than lymphocytes. Using a series of 61 cyclosporin analogues, we generally found a good correlation between cyclophilin binding and immunosuppressive activity for the majority of analogues analyzed. However, a number of compounds of distinct structural classes were found that could interact with cyclophilin but were much less immunosuppressive than expected. The inability of these analogues to inhibit lymphocyte activation could not be explained by their failure to enter the cell and bind to cyclophilin under the conditions used in the cellular assays. Surprisingly, a nonimmunosuppressive analogue, MeAla-6, which bound well to cyclophilin and was active as a PPIase inhibitor, did not induce renal pathology in vivo. Furthermore, another analogue, MeBm2t, which was immunosuppressive in vitro, possessed little or no activity as a PPIase inhibitor. These findings pose serious questions concerning a direct role of cyclosporin in mediating CsA's immunosuppressive and nephrotoxic activities. In addition, they raise doubts about whether PPIase has a direct function in lymphocyte signal transduction.
Diagnosis of heterozygous states for adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency based on detection of in vivo somatic mutants in blood T cells: application to screening of heterozygotes.	An accurate diagnosis of heterozygotes for autosomal recessive disorders with unknown mutations can be difficult. Using a unique phenomenon occurring in vivo, we designed a method for the diagnosis of heterozygotes for adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) deficiency which makes way for a qualitative distinction between normal and heterozygous subjects. We cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells with 2,6-diaminopurine, an APRT-dependent cytotoxin, to search for in vivo mutational cells. Fifteen putative heterozygotes examined were found to possess such mutant cells at rather high frequencies; thus, a false negative diagnosis is unlikely. The analysis of genomic DNA in 82 resistant clones from two of the heterozygotes clarified that 64 (78%) had lost the germinally intact alleles. Thirteen members of APRT-deficient families were examined; eight proved to be heterozygotes. Among 425 individuals from two separate residential areas of Japan, two heterozygotes were found. The authenticity of the heterozygosity was validated by two separate methods for the two heterozygotes; hence, a false positive diagnosis can be ruled out. Our data showed a calculated heterozygote frequency of 0.47% (95% confidence limits; 0.05%-1.7%), a value compatible with that (1.2%) calculated from data concerning the incidence of 2,8-dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis. This novel genetic approach for identifying heterozygotes is now being tested to search for other enzyme deficiencies in humans.
Beta 1 integrin-mediated lymphocyte adherence to extracellular matrix is enhanced by phorbol ester treatment.	The interaction of the human T cell leukemia, Jurkat, with the extracellular matrix components collagen and fibronectin was examined. These cells displayed constitutive binding to fibronectin and low levels of adherence to collagen which were enhanced following stimulation with phorbol esters. The relevant binding structures were identified as members of the CD29/beta 1 integrin family of adhesion molecules. Adherence to collagen and to fibronectin was mediated by alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1, respectively. The enhancement of adherence by phorbol esters did not involve up-regulation of receptor expression but appeared to derive from the increased functionality of structures which were expressed on the cell surface.
Guanine ribonucleotide depletion inhibits T cell activation. Mechanism of action of the immunosuppressive drug mizoribine.	The immunosuppressive drug, mizoribine, has been used to prevent rejection of organ allografts in humans and in animal models. Based on studies in cell lines, mizoribine has been postulated to be an inhibitor of inosine monophosphate (IMP) dehydrogenase (EC1.2.1.14), a pivotal enzyme in the formation of guanine ribonucleotides from IMP. To further characterize the mechanism of action of this drug, we studied the effect of mizoribine on human peripheral blood T cells stimulated with alloantigen, anti-CD3 MAb, or pharmacologic mitogens. Mizoribine (1-50 micrograms/ml) was able to inhibit T cell proliferation by 10-100% in a dose-dependent fashion to all stimuli tested. Measurements of purine ribonucleotide pools by HPLC showed that mizoribine led to a decrease in intracellular GTP levels, and that repletion of GTP reversed its antiproliferative effects. We also examined sequential events occurring after T cell stimulation. Early events in T cell activation, as assessed by steady-state mRNA levels of c-myc, IL-2, c-myb, histone, and cdc2 kinase, as well as surface IL-2 receptor expression, were unaffected. However, cell cycle analysis revealed decreased numbers of cells in S, G2, and M phases, and showed that the G1/S block was reversed with GTP repletion. These data indicate that mizoribine has an effect on T cell proliferation by a mechanism distinct from that of cyclosporine or corticosteroids, and therefore may be useful in combination immunosuppressive regimens.
Lymphocyte activation induces rapid changes in nuclear and cytoplasmic glycoproteins.	A unique form of nucleoplasmic and cytoplasmic protein glycosylation, O-linked GlcNAc, (O-GlcNAc) is present on proteins ranging from those of yeast to man, including many chromatin proteins, transcription factors, nuclear pore proteins, and certain types of cytoskeletal proteins. In this report we have studied the effects of cellular activation on O-GlcNAc-modified proteins, using T lymphocytes as a model system. Results indicate that the apparent levels of O-GlcNAc on many nuclear proteins increases rapidly after lymphocyte activation, returning to control levels after a few hours. In contrast, the apparent levels of O-GlcNAc on a distinct population of cytosolic proteins decreases rapidly after cellular activation and also returns to control levels after a few hours. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that O-GlcNAc is a regulatory modification and suggest that O-GlcNAc modification may play an important role in the early stages of T-lymphocyte activation.
T-lymphocyte interleukin 2-dependent tyrosine protein kinase signal transduction involves the activation of p56lck.	Addition of interleukin 2 (IL-2) to IL-2-dependent T cells results in tyrosine protein kinase signal transduction events even though the IL-2 receptor alpha and beta chains lack intrinsic enzymatic activity. Here we report that addition of IL-2 to IL-2-dependent human T cells transiently stimulates the specific activity of p56lck, a member of the src family of nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinases expressed at high levels in T lymphocytes. The ability of IL-2 to induce p56lck activation was found to be independent of the capacity of p56lck to associate with either CD4 or CD8. Following IL-2 treatment, p56lck was found to undergo serine/threonine phosphorylation modifications that resulted in altered mobility of the lck gene product on polyacrylamide gels. These observations raise the possibility that p56lck participates in IL-2-mediated signal transduction events in T cells.
Differential effects of natural and synthetic vitamin E on gene transcription in murine T lymphocytes.	Mice were supplemented with low and high doses of natural and synthetic vitamin E, T cells from the spleen isolated and stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 and soluble anti-CD28, and gene expression changes assessed by gene array experiments. The data obtained indicate significant qualitative and quantitative differences between the two vitamin forms in regulating gene expression in response to T-cell stimulation. Marker genes have been found whose expression can be considered significant in establishing the level of, and response to vitamin E for both natural and synthetic vitamin E supplementation; unique markers for synthetic vitamin E supplementation and unique markers for natural vitamin E supplementation have been identified.
Cyclophosphamide induces bone marrow to yield higher numbers of precursor dendritic cells in vitro capable of functional antigen presentation to T cells in vivo.	We have shown recently that cyclophosphamide (CTX) treatment induced a marked increase in the numbers of immature dendritic cells (DCs) in blood, coinciding with enhanced antigen-specific responses of the adoptively transferred CD8(+) T cells. Because this DC expansion was preceded by DC proliferation in bone marrow (BM), we tested whether BM post CTX treatment can generate higher numbers of functional DCs. BM was harvested three days after treatment of C57BL/6 mice with PBS or CTX and cultured with GM-CSF/IL-4 in vitro. Compared with control, BM from CTX-treated mice showed faster generation and yielded higher numbers of DCs with superior activation in response to toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists. Vaccination with peptide-pulsed DCs generated from BM from CTX-treated mice induced comparable adjuvant effects to those induced by control DCs. Taken together, post CTX BM harbors higher numbers of DC precursors capable of differentiating into functional DCs, which be targeted to create host microenvironment riches in activated DCs upon treatment with TLR agonists.
Immunomodulator therapy: monoclonal antibodies, fusion proteins, cytokines, and immunoglobulins.	The immune system consists of a diverse array of immunocompetent cells and inflammatory mediators that exist in complex networks. These components interact through cascades and feedback circuits, maintaining physiologic inflammation (eg, tissue repair) and immunosurveillance. In various autoimmune and allergic diseases, a foreign antigen or autoantigen might upset this fine balance, leading to dysregulated immunity, persistent inflammation, and ultimately pathologic sequelae. In recent years, there has been tremendous progress delineating the specific components of the immune system that contribute to various aspects of normal immunity and specific disease states. With this greater understanding of pathogenesis coupled with advances in biotechnology, many immunomodulatory agents commonly called "biologic agents" have been introduced into the clinic for the treatment of various conditions, including immune globulins and cytokines. The 2 most common classes of approved biologic agents are mAbs and fusion proteins with exquisite specificity. These agents have the potential both to optimize outcomes through more thorough modulation of specific parts of the dysregulated immune response and to minimize toxicity compared with less specific methods of immunosuppression.
Integrating costimulatory agonists to optimize immune-based cancer therapies.	While immunotherapy for cancer has become increasingly popular, clinical benefits for such approaches remain limited. This is likely due to tumor-associated immune suppression, particularly in the advanced-disease setting. Thus, a major goal of novel immunotherapeutic design has become the coordinate reversal of existing immune dysfunction and promotion of specific tumoricidal T-cell function. Costimulatory members of the TNF-receptor family are important regulators of T-cell-mediated immunity. Notably, agonist ligation of these receptors restores potent antitumor immunity in the tumor-bearing host. Current Phase I/II evaluation of TNF-receptor agonists as single-modality therapies will illuminate their safety, mechanism(s) of action, and best use in prospective combinational immunotherapy approaches capable of yielding superior benefits to cancer patients.
Conformational perturbation of interleukin-2: a strategy for the design of cytokine analogs.	Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a representative of a growing family of small proteins termed lymphokines which are responsible for mediating cell differentiation, growth and function in the immune system. Many of these proteins are being evaluated for their clinical potential. From the perspective of drug development, structure-function analysis of these molecules and their receptors require the use methodologies different than those traditionally employed for small peptides and other natural products. However, similar pharmacologic principles apply and an understanding of ligand-receptor interactions and the associated responses is required in order to efficiently pursue agonist and antagonist design. Although IL-2 is a protein of only 133 amino acid residues for which a low resolution X-ray structure does exist, the complexity of its receptor system has provided an added challenge to structure-function studies. Consequently, little is known concerning the receptor contact residues for this protein. We have attempted to utilize established principles of protein and peptide structure to manipulate the conformation of IL-2 in a manner which has provided analogs helpful for receptor interaction studies. These proteins have not only providing useful information on the nature of the IL-2 receptor but have also revealed potential strategies for the design of IL-2 agonists and antagonists.
The relative role of neutrophils and platelets in the local accumulation of circulating lymphocytes at sites of ionophore A23187 inoculation.	The early cellular infiltrate at inflammatory sites consists predominantly of neutrophils and cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage. The mechanism by which circulating, unsensitized lymphocytes accumulate at sites of inflammation is unknown. The pattern of accumulation of 111indium-labeled circulating thymocytes in response to local injections of the ionophore A23187 was studied and compared with the pattern of (125)iodinated albumin accumulation as a measure of vascular permeability. The kinetics of thymocyte accumulation differed from those of vascular permeability. Sublethal total-body irradiation (750 rads) markedly decreased thymocyte accumulation but had little effect on vascular permeability. Irradiation of the local site alone had no effect. T lymphocyte, T lymphoblast, and platelet accumulation generally followed the same pattern as thymocytes. Intravenous injection of neutrophils, but not platelets, partially restored lymphocyte accumulation in vivo in irradiated mice via a pathway involving the circulating neutrophil, and seemed to be independent of changes in vascular permeability.
Interleukin 7 induces cytokine secretion and tumoricidal activity by human peripheral blood monocytes.	Peripheral blood monocytes can be induced by stimuli such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to secrete an array of cytokines. We have studied the effects of interleukin 7 (IL-7) on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and found that IL-7 is a relatively potent inducer of IL-6 secretion IL-6 protein levels were determined either by the B9 hybridoma growth factor assay or by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and mRNA for IL-6 was analyzed by Northern hybridization. Detailed examination revealed that, among PBMC, monocytes, rather than lymphocytes, were secreting IL-6 in response to IL-7. In contrast to the low concentrations of IL-7 required to stimulate T cell growth and differentiation (as low as 0.1 ng/ml), relatively high concentrations of IL-7 were necessary to induce IL-6 secretion by monocytes (at least 10 ng/ml). An optimal concentration of IL-7 (100 ng/ml) induced monocytes to secrete 10-fold more IL-6 than an optimal concentration of IL-1 beta (10 ng/ml), and almost as much as LPS. However, significantly more IL-7 than IL-1 beta was required to induce detectable levels of IL-6. The kinetics of IL-6 secretion by monocytes were identical in response to IL-7, IL-1 beta, or LPS, with IL-6 protein detectable in culture supernatants as early as 2 h after the initiation of culture. IL-4 was found to markedly inhibit the ability of IL-7 or LPS to induce IL-6 mRNA and IL-6 secretion. In addition to promoting IL-6 production, IL-7 induced the secretion of immunoreactive IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by monocytes. IL-7 also induced monocyte/macrophage tumoricidal activity against a human melanoma cell target, an activity that may be related to the secretion of IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and TNF-alpha. Finally, we used a whole blood culture system as a bridge to in vivo analysis to demonstrate that IL-7 induces cytokine secretion in the absence of culture medium, fetal calf serum, and adherence to plastic. Our data suggest that IL-7, in addition to regulating lymphocyte growth and differentiation, has potent effects on cells of the monocytic lineage. Thus, IL-7 may be an important mediator in inflammation and in the macrophage immune response to tumors.
Effects of endometrial IgG on PHA-induced T cell mitogenesis.	To clarify the characterization and immunologic mechanisms of endometrial extract as a suppressive factor in tissues of the implantation site, the effects of endometrial extract and IgG on mitogen-stimulated cultures of lymphocytes from human peripheral blood were investigated. The inhibitory activity of endometrial extracts was observed to be augmented markedly in the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle as compared to the proliferative phase. Secretory endometrial extract, at a concentration of 0.6 mg protein/ml, caused 50% suppression of PHA-induced lymphocyte blastogenesis (PHA-BL). Column fractionation of endometrial extract on a Sephadex G-200 column showed a profile with three peak fractions and demonstrated that the 2nd peak fraction was mainly responsible for the suppression of PHA-BL. The 2nd peak fraction was shown to contain IgG by the method of immunodiffusion with anti-human IgG. The 2nd peak fraction from which IgG was removed with affinity chromatography caused significant depression of PHA-BL. Furthermore, the Fc fraction of IgG showed marked suppression compared to the F(ab')2 fraction. From these results, we suggest the possibility of an endogenous substance containing IgG as a suppressive factor which is implicated in the suppression of T cell function. The Fc fragment seemed to be the major fraction possessing such suppressive activity.
Quantitative analysis of cellular inflammation after traumatic spinal cord injury: evidence for a multiphasic inflammatory response in the acute to chronic environment.	Traumatic injury to the central nervous system results in the disruption of the blood brain/spinal barrier, followed by the invasion of cells and other components of the immune system that can aggravate injury and affect subsequent repair and regeneration. Although studies of chronic neuroinflammation in the injured spinal cord of animals are clinically relevant to most patients living with traumatic injury to the brain or spinal cord, very little is known about chronic neuroinflammation, though several studies have tested the role of neuroinflammation in the acute period after injury. The present study characterizes a novel cell preparation method that assesses, quickly and effectively, the changes in the principal immune cell types by flow cytometry in the injured spinal cord, daily for the first 10 days and periodically up to 180 days after spinal cord injury. These data quantitatively demonstrate a novel time-dependent multiphasic response of cellular inflammation in the spinal cord after spinal cord injury and are verified by quantitative stereology of immunolabelled spinal cord sections at selected time points. The early phase of cellular inflammation is comprised principally of neutrophils (peaking 1 day post-injury), macrophages/microglia (peaking 7 days post-injury) and T cells (peaking 9 days post-injury). The late phase of cellular inflammation was detected after 14 days post-injury, peaked after 60 days post-injury and remained detectable throughout 180 days post-injury for all three cell types. Furthermore, the late phase of cellular inflammation (14-180 days post-injury) did not coincide with either further improvements, or new decrements, in open-field locomotor function after spinal cord injury. However, blockade of chemoattractant C5a-mediated inflammation after 14 days post-injury reduced locomotor recovery and myelination in the injured spinal cord, suggesting that the late inflammatory response serves a reparative function. Together, these data provide new insight into cellular inflammation of spinal cord injury and identify a surprising and extended multiphasic response of cellular inflammation. Understanding the role of this multiphasic response in the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury could be critical for the design and implementation of rational therapeutic treatment strategies, including both cell-based and pharmacological interventions.
Rapamycin protects mice from staphylococcal enterotoxin B-induced toxic shock and blocks cytokine release in vitro and in vivo.	Staphylococcal enterotoxins are potent activators for human T cells and cause lethal toxic shock. Rapamycin, an immunosuppressant, was tested for its ability to inhibit staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB)-induced activation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro and toxin-mediated shock in mice. Stimulation of PMBC by SEB was effectively blocked by rapamycin as evidenced by the inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, IL-2, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), macrophage inflammatory protein 1alpha (MIP-1alpha), MIP-1beta, and T-cell proliferation. In vivo, rapamycin protected 100% of mice from lethal shock, even when administered 24 h after intranasal SEB challenge. The serum levels of MCP-1 and IL-6, after intranasal exposure to SEB, were significantly reduced in mice given rapamycin versus controls. Additionally, rapamycin diminished the weight loss and temperature fluctuations elicited by SEB.
Minocycline attenuates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rats by reducing T cell infiltration into the spinal cord.	We investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of minocycline in EAE, an animal model of MS. Minocycline, administered for two weeks after the clinical onset, significantly decreased the cumulative and mean clinical scores of EAE. This was associated with the reduction of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell numbers in the spinal cord and the downregulation of LFA-1 on T cells without affecting the cytokine production profile. The predominant cytokine produced by T cells in the spleen was IFN-gamma whereas in the CNS it was IL-17. Our results indicate that minocycline regulates T cell infiltration into the CNS without modifying the dominant cytokine production.
A myeloid cell population induced by Freund adjuvant suppresses T-cell-mediated antitumor immunity.	Although adjuvants are important components of vaccines, few studies have been conducted to establish the criteria on adjuvant selection and to investigate mechanisms of adjuvant actions during vaccination. Here we found that complete Freund adjuvant (CFA) induced a CD11b cell population in a B-cell independent manner. This cell population exhibited strong ability to inhibit T-cell-mediated rejection of tumor transplants. In vitro studies indicated that these cells induced T-cell apoptosis and down-regulated interferon-gamma production. Nitric oxide (NO) played important roles to achieve these effects. Plenty of NO was produced by these CFA-induced CD11b cells. The addition of N-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester, an inhibitor of NO synthase, rescued T cells from apoptosis and partially abrogated the detrimental effects of CFA in cancer vaccines. Incomplete Freund adjuvant, one of the adjuvants still being used in clinical trials, also induced a similar cell population. Our results reveal a previously unknown mechanism in which the myeloid cell population induced by Freund adjuvant impairs antitumor immunity, and highlight the importance of adjuvant selection during tumor vaccination.
New insights into T cell biology and T cell-directed therapy for autoimmunity, inflammation, and immunosuppression.	T cell-directed therapies have become mainstays in the management of various autoimmune diseases and organ transplantation. The understanding of T cell biology has expanded greatly since the development of most agents currently in use. Here we discuss important recent discoveries pertaining to T helper cell differentiation, lineage commitment, and function. Within this context, we examine existing T cell-directed therapies, including new agents being evaluated in clinical and preclinical studies. We also use recent findings to speculate on novel targets.
CD200R1 agonist attenuates mechanisms of chronic disease in a murine model of multiple sclerosis.	To assess the effects and mechanisms of a CD200R1 agonist administered during the progressive stage of a multiple sclerosis model, we administered CD200R1 agonist (CD200Fc) or control IgG2a during the chronic phase of disease (days 10-30) in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), induced using myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55 (MOG35-55) peptide. We found that administration of CD200Fc during the chronic stages of EAE reduced disease severity, demyelination, and axonal damage, through the modulation of several key disease mechanisms. CD200Fc treatment suppressed macrophage and microglial accumulation within the CNS, in part through downregulation of adhesion molecules VLA-4 and LFA-1, which are necessary for macrophage migration. Additionally, expression of activation markers MHC-II and CD80 and production of proinflammatory cytokines IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and nitric oxide by CD11b(+) cells were decreased in both the spleen and CNS in CD200Fc-treated animals. Antigen-presenting cell function in the spleen and CNS was suppressed in CD200Fc-treated mice, but there were no significant alterations on T cell activation or phenotype. CD200Fc increased apoptosis of CD11b(+) cells but not astrocytes. In contrast, addition of CD200Fc treatment protected oligodendrocytes from apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrate that CD200R1 agonists modulate both myeloid- and non-myeloid-related mechanisms of chronic disease in the EAE model and may be effective in the treatment of progressive multiple sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Stimulation of human T cells with sulfonamides and sulfonamide metabolites.	Exposure to sulfonamides is associated with a high incidence of hypersensitivity reactions. Antigen-specific T cells are involved in the pathogenesis; however, the nature of the antigen interacting with specific T-cell receptors is not fully defined.
Hodgkin's lymphoma cells exhibit high expression levels of the PICOT protein.	PICOT was originally discovered as a protein kinase C (PKC) binding protein in human Jurkat T-lymphocytes in which it was found to modulate PKCtheta-dependent functions. In addition, RT-PCR analysis suggested the expression of PICOT in a wide range of organs and cell types, including cells that are devoid of PKCtheta. We aimed at analyzing the expression of the PICOT protein in mouse lymphoid organs, and to compare them with those of Jurkat T-lymphocytes and other cell lines. We also analyzed whether PICOT expression in T-lymphocytes is dependent on the presence of PKCtheta, and whether it correlates with cell growth rate. Western blot analyses demonstrated PICOT expression in all lymphoid organs and cell lines tested. In addition, similar expression levels were observed in lymphoid organs of wild-type and PKCtheta-null mice, suggesting that PICOT expression in T-lymphocytes is independent of PKCtheta. However, PICOT expression levels were higher in Jurkat T-lymphocytes and other lymphoma cell lines compared to freshly isolated lymphocytes, while T-lymphocyte mitogens, such as concanavalin A, increased PICOT expression concomitantly with the induction of a faster T-lymphocyte growth rate. Finally, immunohistochemistry of freshly-isolated lymph nodes from Hodgkin's lymphoma patients revealed significantly higher levels of PICOT in Hodgkin's cells, compared to the normal surrounding lymphocytes. The present results show a direct correlation between PICOT expression levels and increased cell growth, both in vitro and in vivo, and suggest that immunostaining of PICOT might be useful for in situ identification of transformed cells, such as those of Hodgkin's lymphoma.
A member of the set of kappa B binding proteins, HIVEN86A, is a product of the human c-rel proto-oncogene.	HIVEN86A is an inducible member of a set of cellular proteins that specifically bind to the kappa B enhancer (Franza et al., 1987; Franza, 1988; Franza, 1990; Ballard et al., 1989; Bohnlein et al., 1988). This enhancer motif has been detected in numerous cellular and viral transcription control domains (Boshart et al., 1985; Sen & Baltimore, 1986; Nabel & Baltimore, 1987). Recently, cDNAs have been cloned (Kieran et al., 1990; Baldwin & Sharp, 1987) that encode the 50 kD DNA binding subunit of murine NF-kappa B (for review: Leonardo & Baltimore, 1989) and the closely related human kappa binding factor (KBF-1) (Kimura et al., 1986; Baldwin & Sharp, 1987). A 350 amino acid domain at the N-terminus of these proteins was found to be homologous with the v-rel oncogene from the avian reticuloendotheliosis virus, strain T (REV-T), as well as a maternal effect gene, dorsal (Kieran et al., 1990; Ghosh et al., 1990). Dorsal is known to activate transcription of certain Drosophila genes (Rushlow et al., 1987). The v-Rel oncoprotein has been identified as a transcriptional activator (Gelinas & Temin, 1988; Hannink & Temin, 1989; Bull et al., 1990) in certain assay systems and shown to be induced by the tumor promoter, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in avian cells (for review: Rice & Gilden, 1988). HIVEN86A is also inducible by PMA (Franza et al., 1987; Franza, 1988; Franza, 1990). We now demonstrate that the protein product of the human c-rel proto-oncogene is structurally identical to HIVEN86A.
(Benzoylphenyl)piperidines: a new class of immunomodulators.	A series of (benzoylphenyl)piperidines has been synthesized and evaluated for activity as immunomodulators. Several of these compounds show good activity in primary screening on the basis of the lymphocytes mitogenic response to Con A, PHA, and PWM. A chloro group in position 4 of the benzoyl moiety as well as an amino group (or a carbamate derivative) para to the piperidine nucleus seems to be essential for activity. The depicted compounds may be considered as the first examples of a new series of immunomodulators.
Distribution in mice of 125I-monoclonal antibodies to T-lymphocyte antigen Ly 2.1 under the influence of immunomodulators]	A study was made of the distribution of 125I (a chloramine method of labeling) monoclonal antibodies to the surface antigen Ly 2.1 of T-lymphocytes during action of immunomodulators (tactivin, hydrocortisone, tactivin administered after hydrocortisone) on ACR mice. These antibodies were shown to retain antigen binding capacity, permitting monitoring of the redistribution of the antigen in the body exposed to immunomodulators.
Therapeutic benefits of calcium channel blockers in cyclosporine-treated organ transplant recipients: blood pressure control and immunosuppression.	Cyclosporine has dramatically improved the success rates for all forms of organ transplantation. However, its use is complicated by the frequent occurrence of hypertension and reversible nephrotoxicity. The iatrogenic hypertension induced by cyclosporine resembles a low-renin, salt-sensitive form of essential hypertension, which is often controlled with salt restriction and therapies counteracting renal salt acquisition, e.g., diuretics and calcium channel blockers (CCBs). CCBs may also counteract the direct vasoconstrictive effects of cyclosporine, as well as the effects of other vasoconstrictors, such as endothelin or thromboxane, that may be stimulated by cyclosporine. Additionally, CCBs may potentiate the immunosuppression of cyclosporine, yet minimize nephrotoxicity. We demonstrated that the in vitro combination of verapamil and cyclosporine had an additive inhibitory effect on the activation and function of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in several assays of the afferent and efferent limbs of immunologic responses. This additive immunosuppression was not likely to have been related to these drugs' effects on interleukin-2 (IL-2) circuitry, since no additive inhibition of IL-2 production or IL-2 responsiveness was found. There was some additive inhibition of IL-2 receptor expression at the higher concentrations of verapamil and cyclosporine that were tested. Although the combination of verapamil and cyclosporine additively inhibited mitogen-induced 45Ca uptake, the inhibitory effect of cyclosporine appears to be due to an inhibition of lymphocyte activation rather than direct inhibition of calcium flux through the slow calcium channel, suggesting that the two drugs do not have additive effects in depressing the transmembrane flux of calcium. More recently, we have demonstrated that the inactive enantiomer of verapamil, which does not block the slow calcium channel, has identical immunosuppressive capabilities as the active enantiomer. Thus, the antiproliferative effect of verapamil is probably slow-calcium-channel independent and may represent the ability of the drug to interfere with muscarinic, alpha 1-adrenergic, or even opiate receptors on lymphocytes or to block lymphocyte potassium channels. An even better possibility is that verapamil may diminish necessary precursor molecule uptake into lymphocytes, since both the inactive and active isomeric forms of verapamil are capable of diminishing thymidine, uridine, and leucine incorporation into stimulated lymphocytes--necessary for DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis, respectively. These in vitro observations may have clinical applicability, as early studies demonstrate reduced rejection rates of cyclosporine-treated transplant patients receiving CCBs. Consequently, CCBs are important medications to be considered for use in cyclosporine-treated organ transplant recipients.
Cortivazol mediated induction of glucocorticoid receptor messenger ribonucleic acid in wild-type and dexamethasone-resistant human leukemic (CEM) cells.	Cortivazol is a phenylpyrazolo glucocorticoid of high potency and unusual structure. In both wild-type and highly dexamethasone(dex)-resistant clones of the human leukemic cell line CEM, exposure to cortivazol leads to cell death. It has been shown recently that in wild-type CEM cells but not in a dex-resistant, glucocorticoid receptor(GR)-defective clone ICR-27 TK-3, dex induces GR mRNA. To test the hypothesis that cortivazol acts in dex-resistant cells by making use of the residual GR found there, wild-type and dex-resistant clones were treated with various concentrations of cortivazol and induction of GR mRNA was studied. Cortivazol significantly induced GR mRNA in the normal CEM-C7 as well as in two classes of dex-resistant clones, although the dex-resistant clones needed at least 10 times more cortivazol than the normal cells for significant GR mRNA induction. Increased levels of GR mRNA were noticed as early as 3 h after treatment. A general correlation between induction of GR mRNA and lysis of the normal and dex-resistant cells was found. Positive induction of GR mRNA might be one of the earliest crucial steps in the lysis of normal and dex-resistant CEM cells, or might serve as a marker for the process. However, the lysis pathway in the dex-resistant cells is defective in that dex-resistant clones needed significantly more cortivazol than the normal cells for lysis of the cells.
Differential susceptibility of T- and B-lymphocyte proliferation to cadmium: relevance to zinc requirement in T-lymphocyte proliferation.	Effect of zinc on an inhibitory action of cadmium to mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation was investigated. Cadmium at concentrations below 10 microM selectively inhibited concanavalin A-induced T-cell proliferation as compared with bacterial lipopolysaccharide-induced B-cell proliferation. Such differential susceptibility of T- and B-cell proliferation was not observed in the cases of other cations such as mercury, lead, nickel, molybdenum, chromium(VI) and arsenic (V). The inhibitory effect of 10 microM cadmium on T-cell proliferation was almost completely prevented by addition of 30 microM zinc to the culture medium, but was not by ferrous iron, nickel and copper. Further, cadmium exerted the same extent of inhibition even when it was added at 16 h after concanavalin A stimulation, and thereafter the inhibition gradually decreased. Correlated well with this observation, the protective effect of zinc was seen as far as it existed during the first 16 h of the mitogen stimulation. As intracellular cadmium content and a cadmium-induced metallothionein level were not changed by zinc addition, these observations strongly suggest that cadmium inhibits some zinc-dependent processes required for T-cell proliferation.
Prevention of insulitis and diabetes onset by treatment with complete Freund's adjuvant in NOD mice.	In studies of immune cell defects in autoimmune diabetes mellitus, we observed that complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) prevented the onset of diabetes when injected into 8- to 10-wk-old prediabetic nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. The prevalence of the onset of diabetes in the CFA-injected versus uninjected NOD mice was 2 of 81 (2.5%) vs. 231 of 379 (61%) among females and 2 of 44 (4.5%) vs. 83 of 336 (25%) among males, respectively. The incidence of histologically identifiable insulitis was significantly reduced in CFA-treated prediabetic female NOD mice (18%) compared with the incidence in female age-matched controls (70%). Splenocytes or Mac-(1+)-enriched splenocytes from CFA-treated NOD mice, when cotransferred with splenocytes from diabetic mice, reduced the incidence of diabetes provoked by diabetic splenocytes in vivo. In the spleen, CFA injection induced sustained increases in cell proliferation and an associated major increase in the numbers of an immature cell type that expressed the Mac-1 surface antigen. In CFA-treated NOD mice, lymphocytes derived from the spleen failed to respond in vitro to stimulation by the mitogen concanavalin A or by anti-CD3. When cocultured, Mac-1+ cells, enriched from the splenocytes of CFA-treated mice, suppressed concanavalin A- or anti-CD3-induced proliferation of T lymphocytes derived from either the spleen or thymus of untreated NOD mice. Therefore, treatment with CFA prevents the development of diabetes, and concomitantly, insulitis while stimulating the generation of splenic suppressor cells that are capable of suppressing diabetogenic T-lymphocyte function in vivo and in vitro.
Effect of human immunodeficiency virus gp120 glycoprotein on the association of the protein tyrosine kinase p56lck with CD4 in human T lymphocytes.	The human immunodeficiency virus binds to CD4+ T lymphocytes through the interaction of its envelope glycoprotein (gp120) with the CD4 molecule. The src-related protein tyrosine kinase p56lck is physically associated with CD4 and is co-immunoprecipitated by CD4 monoclonal antibody (mAb). Activators of protein kinase C (PKC) cause the dissociation of p56lck from CD4. Here we report that gp120 mAb immunoprecipitated the p56lck.CD4.gp120 complex after short term treatment (20 min) of human T lymphocytes with gp120. The p56lck that was associated with the CD4.gp120 complex was dissociated by activators of PKC. This effect was abolished by pretreatment of cells with PKC inhibitors. Thus the p56lck.CD4.gp120 immune complex immunoprecipitated by gp120 mAb behaves in a similar manner, with respect to PKC activation or inhibition, to the p56lck.CD4 complex immunoprecipitated by CD4 mAb. Short term treatment of cells with gp120, followed by gp120 mAb, resulted in an increase in the tyrosine kinase activity of p56lck associated with CD4. However, the amount of enzyme associated with CD4 remained unchanged. Long term treatment (20 h) of human T lymphocytes with gp120 resulted in the down-regulation of cell surface CD4 molecules. A parallel decrease in CD4-associated gp120 was also observed. In addition, gp120 caused the dissociation of p56lck and CD4. However, the dissociation of the p56lck from CD4 occurred at much faster rate than the down-regulation of surface CD4 molecules. Such mechanisms may account for the down-regulation of cell surface CD4 molecules and the depletion of functional CD4+ T lymphocytes which are characteristic of human immunodeficiency virus infections and acquired immune deficiency syndrome pathogenesis.
Colchicine is a potent adjuvant for eliciting T cell responses.	The cytotoxic drug colchicine when administered to mice in conjunction with Ag was shown to have a strong adjuvant effect in generating a specific plaque-forming cell response to the protein Ag OVA, human gamma-globulin and BSA. Dissection of this phenomenon revealed that several T cell activities, including Th function, Ag-induced T cell proliferation and T cell-mediated delayed-type hypersensitivity, were also specifically induced by treating mice with colchicine + Ag. The adjuvant effect of colchicine was observed when the drug and Ag were injected in soluble form, i.e., no vehicle (e.g., oil, liposome) was necessary. The potency of colchicine as an adjuvant was equal to or more than that of conventional adjuvants such as CFA or alum.
Effects of nitrite use on lymphocyte mitogenesis in homosexual men.	Immune function in 97 homosexually active men (none of whom had HIV infection) was assessed. Data revealed that mitogenesis in those who used volatile nitrites compared to those who did not was higher at 72 h but that there was no difference between the groups at 96 h. In those who had high as compared to low nitrite use, mitogenesis was higher at 72 h but decreased significantly by 96 h. These data support previous suggestions that immunosuppressive effects of nitrites alone cannot account for the development of Kaposi's sarcoma in homosexual men with HIV infection.
The immunosuppressive activity of the aldehydic transformation of cyclosporine on alloreactive T-cells.	Cyclosporine (CsA) is a potent immunosuppressive compound, and its metabolites have previously been shown to have pharmacologic activity. The aldehydic metabolites have been isolated and are a metabolic intermediate after the conversion of CsA to its most active hydroxylated metabolite. The in vitro sensitivity of alloreactive T-lymphocytes, which are generated from a mixed lymphocyte reaction and propagated from organ transplant biopsy specimens to the aldehydic metabolites of CsA, was tested. In secondary proliferative assays in the presence of varying concentrations of CsA and the aldehydes, the concentration required to inhibit proliferation by 50% was 50 to 150 ng/mL for CsA and 3150 to 3500 ng/mL for the aldehydes. Pretreatment of alloreactive cells with CsA or the aldehydes did not alter cell viability, as tested with dye exclusion, or cell reactivity on reculturing. These studies concluded that the structural modification formed by metabolism of CsA to the aldehydic structure eliminates its antiproliferative activity on T-lymphocytes.
An in vitro model of peptide-mediated immunomodulation of the human T cell response to Dermatophagoides spp (house dust mite).	Allergic sensitivity of Dermatophagoides spp (house dust mites) is mediated by specific IgE antibody, the production of which requires the presence of CD4+ helper T cells. Attempts to hyposensitize this response in allergic individuals have depended on the administration of extracts of specific allergen. However, the ability of peptides derived from unrelated antigens to inhibit specific immune responses offers an alternative approach to therapy. We have addressed this question by examining the ability of a nonstimulatory peptide analogue derived from influenza virus hemagglutinin to modulate T cell recognition of house dust mite. The peptide inhibited the response of mite-specific CD4+ T cell clones restricted by either the HLA-DRAB1 or DRAB3 gene products. Furthermore, mite-induced polyclonal T cell responses were negatively modulated by the peptide, whereas recognition of common recall antigens remained intact. The inhibitory effects were mediated at the level of the antigen-presenting cell, since no inhibition of mitogen or anti-CD3 antibody-driven T cell proliferation was observed. In direct binding assays, the peptide analogue bound to selected HLA-DR molecules expressed on the membrane of antigen-presenting cells, with specificity predominantly for those class II proteins capable of restricting house dust mite-allergen T cell recognition.
Decreased cytotoxic potential of fresh and recombinant interleukin 2-cultured large granular lymphocytes in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Cytotoxic potential (cytotoxic efficiency and binding affinity) of large granular lymphocytes (LGL) in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients was calculated by Michaelis-Menten's kinetic equation. Cytotoxic efficiency (Vmax) of fresh or 3-day recombinant interleukin 2 (IL-2)-cultured LGL, not of similarly cultured T cells, in on-therapy ALL patients was decreased (31% in fresh LGL, P less than 0.05 and 28% in cultured LGL, P less than 0.01) as compared with that in controls, although the binding affinity (Km) of these cells were not decreased. The cytotoxic efficiency and the binding affinity of IL-2-cultured LGL in off-therapy ALL patients was not decreased. These data indicate that the cytotoxic potential of LGL was selectively decreased in on-therapy ALL patients due to the impairment in the post-binding cytotoxic process, not due to the decrease in the binding affinity.
Reversal of established nephropathy in New Zealand B/W F1 mice by 15-deoxyspergualin.	The therapeutic effect of 15-deoxyspergualin (DSP) in old New Zealand Black/White F1 mice (B/W mice) with clinical nephropathy was studied and compared with cyclophosphamide (CY). The mice were treated with 0.05 ml phosphate-buffered saline, subcutaneously, four times/week, with DSP, 6 mg/kg body weight, s.c., four times/week, or with CY, 15 mg/kg, i.p., once a week, starting at the 28th week of age. They were serially semiquantitated for proteinuria, and serum IgG anti-dsDNA antibody was measured by ELISA. Spleen cell surface markers such as L3T4, Lyt2 and IgG were flow-cytometrically analyzed, and interleukin-2 (IL-2) activity in vitro was measured using CTLL cells. Kidney specimens were studied with light and immunofluorescence microscopy. The mice treated with either CY or DSP survived significantly longer than the control mice. L3T4+ cells in the DSP-treated mice at 40 weeks of age were significantly less than those in the 28-week-old control mice (p less than 0.05). In contrast, IL-2 generation in the three groups of mice showed no significant variations at 32-40 weeks of age. Serum anti-DNA antibody levels in both of the CY and DSP groups remained low and comparable with that in the 28-week-old mice, and the incidence of significant proteinuria decreased. Likewise, glomerular histology in the treated groups was improved compared with the 28-week-old control mice, and the deposition of IgG and C3 in the treated groups remained unchanged or further decreased. Accordingly, the renal (immuno)histological findings in the DSP group were quite comparable with or even better than those in the CY-treated mice. DSP may have suppressed the abnormal antibody production by modulating the T cell function(s), which is in contrast to the direct action against B cells due to CY.
Immunoactive drugs in the combined modality therapy of patients with hypothyroidism]	Comparative studies into the clinico-immunologic status of patient with primary hypothyrosis have shown that the multimodality treatment including differentiated administration of immunoactive agents (glucocorticoids, splenin) promoted more well-defined normalization of cellular, humoral immunity and nonspecific defence as well as reduction or disappearance of the clinical disease manifestations as compared to patients who did not receive those drugs as part of the multimodality therapy. The use of glucocorticoids and splenin may be recommended as part of the multimodality treatment of patients suffering from primary hypothyrosis marked by pronounced disorders in the immune system.
Cytosine arabinoside enhancement of gamma irradiation induced mutations in human T-lymphocytes.	The frequency of 6-thioguanine resistant (TGr) mutants induced in human G0 phase T-lymphocytes by 200 cGy of gamma irradiation is greatly enhanced by incubation with cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) after irradiation. The mutant frequency increased with increasing incubation time in ara-C for up to 2 hr. This mutation induction required a phenotypic expression time of 5-8 days mass culture growth, similar to that found with mutants induced by 300 cGy of irradiation alone. Southern blot analysis of 40 isolated mutant clones revealed 8 independent mutations by T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement patterns. Four of these eight showed hprt gene structural alterations (0.50). An alternative method to allow phenotypic expression was developed to minimize the isolation of hprt/TCR sibling mutants. The use of in situ expression in the microtiter dish wells resulted in the isolation of 17 independent mutations in 19 mutant clones. Ten of these 17 mutations showed hprt structural alterations (0.59). The high fraction of mutations involving structural alterations detected by Southern blot analysis is consistent with the known induction of chromosome aberrations by irradiation plus ara-C treatment. We propose that both the increase in Mf and the increase in the incidence of hprt gene structural alterations are due to the accumulation of strand breaks in repairing regions of DNA under these conditions of ara-C induced inhibition of repair. We further propose that upon release of the ara-C inhibition, these repairing regions can interact to yield both gene mutations and chromosome aberrations.
Phase I trial of a humanized, Fc receptor nonbinding anti-CD3 antibody, hu12F6mu in patients receiving renal allografts.	Hu12F6mu is an Fc-mutated, humanized anti-CD3 antibody developed in our lab. The aim of this study was to assess single dose escalation pharmacokinetics (PK) and safety profile of hu12F6mu and to measure the effects of the antibody on levels of circulating T cells over time. Twenty-seven patients receiving renal allografts were randomized to receive hu12F6mu intravenously at a single-dose of 2.5, 5 or 10 mg. The concentration-time data obtained by a validated ELISA method were subjected to non-compartmental PK analysis by DAS 2.1 software. Subgroups of CD2(+), CD3(+), CD4(+) and CD8(+) lymphocytes were monitored periodically by flow cytometry. Our results showed that hu12F6mu exhibited linear PK over the dose range of 2.5 to 10 mg. A significant decline in the proportion of T cells was observed immediately after the infusion, followed by a progressive increase occurring over the ensuing days of therapy. A significant negative correlation was observed between serum concentration of hu12F6mu and CD3(+) cell proportion. Intravenous infusion of hu12F6mu was well-tolerated in patients receiving renal allografts. These results suggest that hu12F6mu may have potential as a therapeutic agent, although further studies are needed.
Immunotherapeutic polyoma and human papilloma virus-like particles.	Polyomavirus and human papillomavirus (HPV) virus-like particles (VLPs) can be obtained by producing their major capsid protein VP1 (for polyomavirus) or L1 (for HPV) free from other viral genes in, for example, a baculovirus insect system, yeast, Escherichia coli or similar systems. Polyomavirus and HPV VLPs can immunize healthy individuals, and in some cases T-cell-deficient hosts, against primary infection with the corresponding virus. Chimeric VLPs from polyomaviruses or HPVs containing fusion proteins between the VP1/L1 or VP2/VP3/L2 minor capsid proteins and selected antigens can also be produced. These VLPs can then induce B- or T-cell immune responses and be used as preventive or therapeutic vaccines against cancers induced by the corresponding virus, or a cancer bearing the selected tumor antigen.
Adjunct immunotherapy with Ag85 complex proteins based subunit vaccine in a murine model of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.	This study was designed to evaluate the immunotherapeutic potential of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Ag85AB emulsified with unmethylated CpG motif-containing oligonucleotide (CpG-ODN) and dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide (DDA) adjuvants (Ag85AB-CpG-DDA) in conjunction with antituberculous drugs. Ag85 complex proteins of M. tuberculosis purified from total culture filtrate and purified proteins were emulsified with CpG-ODN and DDA adjuvants. Mice were infected with M. tuberculosis H37 Rv and left for 30 days to establish infection. These mice were named 'tuberculous mice'. Tuberculous mice were treated with Ag85AB-CpG-DDA alone or in conjunction with antituberculous drugs. Treatment of tuberculous mice with Ag85AB-CpG-DDA in conjunction with antituberculous drugs reduced significant bacilli burden in lung and spleen. Moreover, treatment of tuberculous mice with Ag85AB-CpG-DDA induced higher production of type-I cytokines, generated more CD44-positive T cells and suppresses secretion of IL-4 as compared with untreated animals. In conclusion, this study shows that Ag85AB-CpG-DDA formulation may act as a potential future therapeutic regimen in conjunction with antituberculous drugs.
Fludarabine modulates composition and function of the T cell pool in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	The combination of cytotoxic treatment with strategies for immune activation represents an attractive strategy for tumour therapy. Following reduction of high tumour burden by effective cytotoxic agents, two major immune-stimulating approaches are being pursued. First, innate immunity can be activated by monoclonal antibodies triggering antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Second, tumour-specific T cell responses can be generated by immunization of patients with peptides derived from tumour antigens and infused in soluble form or loaded onto dendritic cells. The choice of cytotoxic agents for such combinatory regimens is crucial since most substances such as fludarabine are considered immunosuppressive while others such as cyclophosphamide can have immunostimulatory activity. We tested in this study whether fludarabine and/or cyclophosphamide, which represent a very effective treatment regimen for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, would interfere with a therapeutic strategy of T cell activation. Analysis of peripheral blood samples from patients prior and during fludarabine/cyclophosphamide therapy revealed rapid and sustained reduction of tumour cells but also of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. This correlated with a significant cytotoxic activity of fludarabine/cyclophosphamide on T cells in vitro. Unexpectedly, T cells surviving fludarabine/cyclophosphamide treatment in vitro had a more mature phenotype, while fludarabine-treated T cells were significantly more responsive to mitogenic stimulation than their untreated counterparts and showed a shift towards T(H)1 cytokine secretion. In conclusion, fludarabine/cyclophosphamide therapy though inducing significant and relevant T cell depletion seems to generate a micromilieu suitable for subsequent T cell activation.
Regulation by intestinal  T cells during establishment of food allergic sensitization in mice.	Food allergy affects approximately 5% of children and is the leading cause of hospitalization for anaphylactic reactions in westernized countries. The mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin induces allergic sensitization to co-administered proteins in mice, while feeding the protein alone induces oral tolerance. Intestinal  T cells could be of importance in the induction of oral tolerance. This study aims to investigate whether  T cells have functional relevance in food allergic sensitization.
Immune responses to recombinant Brugia malayi pepsin inhibitor homolog (Bm-33) in patients with human lymphatic filariaisis.	Immune responses to recombinant Brugia malayi pepsin inhibitor homolog (rBm-33) were investigated in patients with human lymphatic filariasis (microfilaremics (MF) and chronic pathology (CP)) along with endemic normals (EN). Flow cytometric analysis (24 h) revealed CD4(+) T cell activation in patients (MF and CP) compared to normals (EN), with increased expression of CD69 and diminished levels of CD62L and CD127. This was associated with an elevated expression of CD154 but not CD28 and CTLA4 in CP patients. However, Bm-33-induced cytokine expression profile (IL-1, IL-12, IL-8, IFN-, IL-10 and TGF-) did not exhibit any significant difference between normals and patients at the same time point. Although CD4(+) T cell activation was observed initially in filarial patients (24 h), lymphoproliferation studies (96 h) suggested diminished proliferation compared to normals, indicating functional inactivation in the former upon prolonged antigen exposure. This indicates that rBm-33 induces an early T cell activation in MF and CP patients followed by a decreased lymphoproliferation that might contribute to immune suppression in these individuals.
Safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic evaluations of PI-2301, a potent immunomodulator, in a first-in-human, single-ascending-dose study in healthy volunteers.	PI-2301 is an amino acid copolymer acting as an immunomodulator for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. The present study evaluated the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics of PI-2301 in a single ascending dose, first-in-human study involving healthy, male adult volunteers. A total of 56 subjects were given a subcutaneous injection of PI-2301 ranging from 0.035 to 60 mg. The only consistent side effect was transient injection site reactions. We describe, for the first time, a pharmacokinetic assay to monitor amino acid copolymer concentration in human serum. PI-2301 was detected in the serum of subjects in the 10-, 30-, and 60-mg cohorts. Maximum serum concentration was achieved between 10 and 30 minutes postdosing with some compound detected 4 hours after dosing. PI-2301's lasting immunological properties were evident by an ex vivo recall assay showing T-cell proliferation and IL-13 production in subjects dosed with 1, 3, or 10 mg of PI-2301, up to 6 months after dosing. A transient increase in chemokine CXCL9 and CXCL10 plasma levels was seen in subjects dosed with 30 or 60 mg of PI-2301. These results are highly consistent with our preclinical findings and suggest that PI-2301 could facilitate the expansion of a favorable immune posture in patients with autoimmune disorders.
Suppression of autoimmunity and organ pathology in lupus-prone mice upon inhibition of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type IV.	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic inflammatory disease associated with aberrant immune cell function. Treatment involves the use of indiscriminate immunosuppression, which results in significant side effects. SLE T cells express high levels of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type IV (CaMKIV), which translocates to the nucleus upon engagement of the T cell receptor-CD3 complex and accounts for abnormal T cell function. The purpose of this study was to determine whether inhibition of CaMKIV would improve disease pathology.
Divergent effect of cobalt and beryllium salts on the fate of peripheral blood monocytes and T lymphocytes.	Occupational exposure to metals such as cobalt and beryllium represents a risk factor for respiratory health and can cause immune-mediated diseases. However, the way they act may be different. We show here that the two metals have a divergent effect on peripheral T lymphocytes and monocytes: BeSO(4) induces cell death in monocytes but not in T lymphocytes, which instead respond by producing Interferon gamma (IFN-); conversely, CoCl(2) induces apoptosis in T lymphocytes but not in monocytes. Interestingly, both metals induce p53 overexpression but with a dramatic different outcome. This is because the effect of p53 in CoCl(2)-treated monocytes is counteracted by the antiapoptotic activity of cytoplasmic p21(Cip1/WAF1), the activation of nuclear factor B, and the inflammasome danger signaling pathway leading to the production of proinflammatory cytokines. However, CoCl(2)-treated monocytes do not fully differentiate into macrophage or dendritic cells, as inferred by the lack of expression of CD16 and CD83, respectively. Furthermore, the expression of HLA-class II molecules, as well as the capability of capturing and presenting the antigens, decreased with time. In conclusion, cobalt keeps monocytes in a partially activated, proinflammatory state that can contribute to some of the pathologies associated with the exposure to this metal.
The immunostimulatory effect of lenalidomide on NK-cell function is profoundly inhibited by concurrent dexamethasone therapy.	Lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone is an effective treatment for refractory/relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). Lenalidomide stimulates natural killer (NK) cells and enhances antitumor responses. We assessed NK cell number and function in 25 patients with MM participating in a clinical trial of lenalidomide and dexamethasone. NK cell numbers increased from a mean of 2.20  0.05  10(5)/mL (baseline) to a mean of 3.90  0.03  10(5)/mL (cycle 6; P = .05); however, in vitro NK-cell-mediated cytotoxicity decreased from 48.9%  6.8% to 27.6%  5.1% (P = .0028) and could not be rescued by lenalidomide retreatment. Lenalidomide increased normal donor NK-cell cytotoxicity in vitro from 38.5% to 53.3%, but this was completely abrogated by dexamethasone. Dexamethasone suppression of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was partially reversed by a 3-day washout, but these cells remained refractory to lenalidomide-induced enhanced function. Lymphocyte subset depletion experiments revealed that lenalidomide's enhancement of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was mediated by CD4(+) T-cell production of interleukin 2 and that dexamethasone acted by suppressing interleukin-2 production. Similarly, the reduced ability of NK cells from patients with MM to respond to lenalidomide was also due to impaired CD4 T-cell function. Our findings indicate that lenalidomide immunostimulatory effects on patient NK cells are severely blunted by concurrent dexamethasone administration.
Immunosuppressive CD14+HLA-DR(low)/- monocytes in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	Immunosuppression is a known risk factor for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), yet mechanisms of tumor-associated immunosuppression remain to be fully characterized. We examined the immunophenotype of 40 NHL patients and 27 age-matched healthy volunteers to better understand systemic immune suppression. NHL peripheral blood mononuclear cells had significantly decreased interferon- production and proliferation. This suppression was not the result of regulatory T cells, interleukin-6 or interleukin-10, as these factors were not different between NHL and healthy volunteers (controls). We were able to restore T-cell proliferation by removing NHL monocytes, suggesting that these monocytes are suppressive. This suppression was mediated in part through arginine metabolism as exogenous arginine supplementation partially overcame monocytes' suppression of T-cell proliferation in vitro and NHL patients had elevated arginase I in their plasma. NHL monocytes had impaired STAT1 phosphorylation and interferon- production to CpG stimulation and a dendritic cell differentiation deficiency. Further studies demonstrated that monocytes from NHL patients had decreased HLA-DR and Tumor necrosis factor- receptor II (CD120b) expression compared with controls (CD14(+)HLA-DR(low/-)CD120b(low)). Patients with increased ratios of CD14(+)HLA-DR(low/-) monocytes had more aggressive disease and suppressed immune functions. In summary, we report that CD14(+)HLA-DR(low/-) monocytes are a major and multifactorial contributor to systemic immunosuppression in NHL.
Induction of autoimmunity to brain antigens by developmental mercury exposure.	A.SW mice, which are known to be prone to mercury (Hg)-induced immune nephritis, were assessed for their ability to develop autoimmunity to brain antigens after developmental exposure to Hg. Maternal drinking water containing subclinical doses of 1.25M methyl Hg (MeHg) or 50M Hg chloride (HgCl(2)) were used to evaluate developmental (exposure from gestational day 8 to postnatal day 21) induction of immune responses to brain antigens. Only HgCl(2) induced autoantibody production; the HgCl(2)-exposed offspring showed an increased number of CD4(+) splenic T cells expressing CD25 and V() 8.3 chains, and the brain-reactive immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies were predominantly against nuclear proteins (30 and 34 kD). The antibodies were deposited in all brain regions. Although male and female A.SW mice exposed to HgCl(2) showed deposition of IgG in multiple brain regions, inflammation responses were observed only in the cerebellum (CB) of female A.SW mice; these responses were associated with increased levels of exploratory behavior. The developmental exposure to MeHg also induced inflammation in the CB and increased exploratory behavior of the female A.SW mice, but the change did not correlate with increased IgG in the brain. Interestingly, the non-Hg-exposed female A.SW mice habituated (adapted to the information and/or stimuli of a new environment) more than the male A.SW mice during exploratory behavior assessment, and the Hg exposure eliminated the habituation (i.e., no changes in behavior with subsequent trials), making the female behaviors more like those of the male A.SW mice. Additionally, gender differences in A.SW brain cytokine expressions prior to Hg exposure were eliminated by the Hg exposure.
In Vitro antiretroviral properties of S/GSK1349572, a next-generation HIV integrase inhibitor.	S/GSK1349572 is a next-generation HIV integrase (IN) inhibitor designed to deliver potent antiviral activity with a low-milligram once-daily dose requiring no pharmacokinetic (PK) booster. In addition, S/GSK1349572 demonstrates activity against clinically relevant IN mutant viruses and has potential for a high genetic barrier to resistance. S/GSK1349572 is a two-metal-binding HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor whose mechanism of action was established through in vitro integrase enzyme assays, resistance passage experiments, activity against viral strains resistant to other classes of anti-HIV agents, and mechanistic cellular assays. In a variety of cellular antiviral assays, S/GSK1349572 inhibited HIV replication with low-nanomolar or subnanomolar potency and with a selectivity index of 9,400. The protein-adjusted half-maximal effective concentration (PA-EC(50)) extrapolated to 100% human serum was 38 nM. When virus was passaged in the presence of S/GSK1349572, highly resistant mutants were not selected, but mutations that effected a low fold change (FC) in the EC(50) (up to 4.1 fold) were identified in the vicinity of the integrase active site. S/GSK1349572 demonstrated activity against site-directed molecular clones containing the raltegravir-resistant signature mutations Y143R, Q148K, N155H, and G140S/Q148H (FCs, 1.4, 1.1, 1.2, and 2.6, respectively), while these mutants led to a high FC in the EC(50) of raltegravir (11- to >130-fold). Either additive or synergistic effects were observed when S/GSK1349572 was tested in combination with representative approved antiretroviral agents; no antagonistic effects were seen. These findings demonstrate that S/GSK1349572 would be classified as a next-generation drug in the integrase inhibitor class, with a resistance profile markedly different from that of first-generation integrase inhibitors.
Inhalation of alkylating mustard causes long-term T cell-dependent inflammation in airways and growth of connective tissue.	Low-dose exposure of alkylating mustard gas causes long-term respiratory complications characterized by bronchitis and lung fibrosis. In this study, we utilized a mouse model for lung exposure of the nitrogen mustard melphalan, in order to define early and late events in the pathogenesis such as expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, recruitment of inflammatory cells to airways and late-phase fibrosis. We investigated the roles of different T lymphocyte subsets on the inflammatory response by using knockout mice lacking either the genes expressing T cell receptor (TCR) or TCR, and compared the responsiveness with that of wild type mice and double knockout mice completely deficient in T cells. Exposure to melphalan induced an early burst of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6 and IL-23 in airways, followed by extensive infiltration of neutrophils in the lung tissue and airways within 24h. The acute phase was followed by a sustained lymphocytic response that persisted for at least 14 days with resulting lung fibrosis. Engagement of T lymphocytes, particularly the  T cell subset, was crucial both for the acute cytokine and neutrophil response and for the late-phase lung fibrosis as indicated by the lack of response in  T cell deficient mice. Our data demonstrate that T lymphocytes play a prominent role in the pathogenesis of long-term lung injuries caused by strong alkylating agents.
Preferential enhancement of older human T cell cytokine generation, chemotaxis, proliferation and survival by lenalidomide.	Lenalidomide, an analog of thalidomide, modified responses of stimulated T cells from healthy young (ages 21-40 years) and old ( age 65 years) subjects. At 0.03 M to 1 M, lenalidomide enhanced generation of IL-2 and IFN- by T cell receptor-stimulated T cells of young subjects up to respective maximum increases of 17-fold and three-fold, but at 0.3 M and 1 M suppressed IL-17 generation. The same concentrations of lenalidomide enhanced IL-2 and IFN- generation by stimulated T cells of old subjects more, with greater respective maximal increases of up to 120-fold and six-fold, without suppressing IL-17 generation. Lenalidomide enhanced proliferation and suppressed apoptosis of stimulated T cells from old subjects, by IL-2-dependent mechanisms, and restored diminished T cell chemotactic responses to CCL21 and sphingosine 1-phosphate. The reversal of T cell abnormalities of immunosenescence by low concentrations of lenalidomide suggest a potential for improvement of immunity in the elderly.
Immune responses to novel allergens and modulation of inflammation by vitamin K3 analogue: a ROS dependent mechanism.	The possibility of newer allergens being responsible for atopy needs to be explored at regional level due to environmental variables. Current studies were undertaken to identify common environmental allergens causing atopy in a defined population of India and to correlate the presence of various risk factors with the clinical presentation of allergy. Newer allergens like human dander and rice grain dust were identified and reported as the most common cause of atopy in this region. Atopy, elevated serum total IgE and familial tendency, was observed in 88%, 69% and 58% of allergic patients respectively. Further, allergen-specific immune responses like lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine secretion were studied in vitro using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from both allergic and non-allergic individuals. Although, some allergens induced significant lymphocyte proliferation in vitro, allergen-induced cytokine secretion except that of TNF- was not seen. Significantly higher ratio of secreted IL-4/IFN- cytokines was observed in PBMC isolated from allergic subjects in response to PHA. Plumbagin (vitamin K3 analogue) completely inhibited PHA-induced cytokine production in PBMC, in both allergic and non-allergic individuals. Plumbagin modulated the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and glutathione and suppressed PHA induced activation of NF-B in human PBMC. The results thus show in human PMBC, for the first time, the anti-allergic and anti-inflammatory effects of plumbagin and underscore its therapeutic potential.
High dietary protein exacerbates hypertension and renal damage in Dahl SS rats by increasing infiltrating immune cells in the kidney.	The present study evaluated the influence and mechanism of action of dietary protein intake in Dahl SS hypertension and renal disease. Rats were fed isocaloric diets with low (6%), normal (18%), or high (30%) amounts of protein and 0.4% NaCl from 5 to 12 weeks of age; the NaCl content of the diets was then increased to 4.0% NaCl from 12 to 15 weeks of age. Rats fed the high-protein diet developed the highest mean arterial blood pressure and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio when fed the 4.0% NaCl diet (153  7 mm Hg and 8.0  2.4, respectively) compared to rats fed normal protein (132  3 mm Hg, 1.2  0.3) or low-protein (132  6 mm Hg, 0.3  0.1) diets. Significantly greater numbers of infiltrating T lymphocytes were observed in kidneys of SS rats fed the high-protein diet (18.9  3  10 cells) than in rats fed the low-protein diet (9.1  3  10 cells). Furthermore, treatment of SS rats fed the high-protein diet with the immunosuppressant agent mycophenolate mofetil (20 mg/kg per day, ip) significantly reduced the number of infiltrating T cells in the kidneys (from 18.9  2.7 to 10.6  2.0  10 cells) while decreasing blood pressure (from 133  3 to 113  4 mm Hg) and the albumin/creatinine ratio (from 10.9  2.3 to 5.4  1.2). These results demonstrate that restriction of protein intake protects the Dahl SS rats from hypertension and kidney disease and indicates that infiltrating immune cells play a pathological role in Dahl SS rats fed a high-protein diet. Moreover, the results show that hypertension in Dahl SS rats is sensitive to both NaCl and protein intake.
Inhibition of lymphoid tyrosine phosphatase by benzofuran salicylic acids.	The lymphoid tyrosine phosphatase (Lyp, PTPN22) is a critical negative regulator of T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling. A single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the ptpn22 gene correlates with the incidence of various autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Since the disease-associated allele is a more potent inhibitor of TCR signaling, specific Lyp inhibitors may become valuable in treating autoimmunity. Using a structure-based approach, we synthesized a library of 34 compounds that inhibited Lyp with IC(50) values between 0.27 and 6.2 M. A reporter assay was employed to screen for compounds that enhanced TCR signaling in cells, and several inhibitors displayed a dose-dependent, activating effect. Subsequent probing for Lyp's direct physiological targets by immunoblot analysis confirmed the ability of the compounds to inhibit Lyp in T cells. Selectivity profiling against closely related tyrosine phosphatases and in silico docking studies with the crystal structure of Lyp yielded valuable information for the design of Lyp-specific compounds.
PETIR-001, a dual inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP IV) and aminopeptidase N (APN), ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in SJL/J mice.	Cellular dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP IV, CD26) and amino-peptidase N (APN, CD13) play regulatory roles in T cell activation and represent potential targets for treatment of inflammatory disorders. We have developed a novel therapeutic strategy, 'peptidase-targeted Immunoregulation' (PETIR), which simultaneously targets both cellular DP IV and APN via selective binding sites different from the active sites with a single inhibitor. To prove the therapeutic concept of PETIR in autoimmunity of the central nervous system (CNS), we evaluated the effect of a single substance, PETIR-001, in an animal model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in SJL/J mice. Administration of PETIR-001 significantly delayed and decreased clinical signs of active EAE, when given in a therapeutic manner intraperitoneally from day 15 to day 24 after induction of EAE. Both the acute phase and the first relapse of EAE were markedly inhibited. Importantly, a similar therapeutic benefit was obtained after oral administration of PETIR-001 from day 12 to day 21 after disease induction. Our results demonstrate that PETIR-001 exhibits a therapeutic effect on EAE in SJL/J mice. Thus, PETIR represents a novel and efficient therapeutic approach for immunotherapy of CNS inflammation.
T-cell receptor ligation induces distinct signaling pathways in naive vs. antigen-experienced T cells.	Nave T lymphocytes display weaker and slower responses than antigen-experienced cells for reasons that are not well understood. Here we show that T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation induces distinct ERK and p38 phosphorylation patterns in nave and antigen-experienced human T cells, and that these contribute to the differential responses shown by these cells. Specifically, TCR ligation triggers the activation of the ERK pathway in nave cells. This phosphorylation of ERK attenuates subsequent calcium influx and accelerates the degradation of the signalsome. In contrast, anti-CD3 stimulation of experienced cells results in the phosphorylation of p38 via an association with Discs large (Dlg). Thus, there are distinct signaling pathways triggered by TCR ligation that impair signaling in nave cells and facilitate it in antigen-experienced cells.
Maturation of monocyte derived dendritic cells with OK432 boosts IL-12p70 secretion and conveys strong T-cell responses.	Design of tumour specific immunotherapies using the patients' own dendritic cells (DC) is a fast advancing scientific field. The functional qualities of the DC generated in vitro are critical, and today's gold standard for maturation is a cytokine cocktail consisting of IL-1, IL-6, TNF- and PGE2 generating cells lacking IL-12p70 production. OK432 is an immunotherapeutic agent derived from killed Streptococcus pyogenes that has been used clinically to treat malignant and benign neoplasms for decades.
Degree of TNF-/IL-10 cytokine elevation correlates with IVF success rates in women undergoing treatment with Adalimumab (Humira) and IVIG.	In this retrospective observational study, we investigate whether the degree of preconception cytokine elevation predicts the risk of IVF failure.
Synthesis of new C5-(1-substituted-1,2,3-triazol-4 or 5-yl)-2'-deoxyuridines and their antiviral evaluation.	The synthesis and antiviral evaluation of a series of C5-(1,4- and 1,5-disubstituted-1,2,3-triazolo)-nucleoside derivatives is described. The key steps of this synthesis are regioselective Huisgen's 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition, using either copper-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition (CuAAC) or ruthenium-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition (RuAAC) under microwave activation. Some compounds among the 5a-l series possess activity against herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, human cytomegalovirus and vaccinia virus. Their cytostatic activities were determined against murine leukemia cells, human T-lymphocyte cells and cervix carcinoma cells. Compounds were also evaluated on a wide panel of RNA viruses, including Vesicular stomatitis virus, influenza viruses type A (H1N1 and H3N2) and B in MDCK cell cultures, parainfluenza-3 virus, reovirus-1, Sindbis virus and Punta Toro virus in Vero cell cultures and Vesicular stomatitis, Coxsackie B4 and respiratory syncytial virus, with no specific antiviral effect.
The WSX-1 pathway restrains intestinal T-cell immunity.	Mechanisms regulating intestinal T-cell accumulation during inflammation have considerable therapeutic value. In this study, LPS increased Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin A-specific T cells in the gut through induction of IL-12 family members. Mice deficient in IL-12 (p35(-/-)) favored T(h)17 differentiation in lamina propria, whereas mice lacking both IL-12 and IL-23 (p40(-/-)) produced significantly fewer T(h)17 cells. However, serum analysis revealed that IL-27p28 was much higher and sustained following LPS injection than other IL-12 family cytokines. Strikingly, WSX-1 (IL-27R) deficiency resulted in log-fold increases in lamina propria T(h)17 cells without affecting T(h)1 numbers. These results may be explained by increased expression of 47 on WSX-1-deficient T cells after immunization. WSX-1-deficient regulatory T cells (Tregs) were also perturbed, producing more IL-17 and less IL-10 than wild-type Tregs. Thus, IL-27 blockade may provide a new pathway to improve mucosal vaccination.
Inhibition of T-cell activation and proliferation by mycophenolic acid in patients awaiting liver transplantation: PK/PD relationships.	Mycophenolic acid (MPA) plasma concentrations were reported to be associated with a decrease in T-cell proliferation, and in both IL-2 -chain (CD25) and transferin receptor (CD71) expression. The aim of this study was to confirm, quantify and model these PK/PD relationships. Full profiles of MPA plasma concentrations, T-cell proliferation, intracytoplasmic IL-2 and TNF- expression, and both CD71 and CD25 expression were collected over the 12h after dosing in 10 patients on the waiting list for liver transplantation. Data were analyzed using NONMEM(). Both CD25 and CD71 expression and T cell proliferation clearly decreased (median of decrease from baseline 62%, 68% and 94%, respectively) with increasing MPA concentrations, in contrast to IL-2 and TNF- expression. The CD25 and CD71 baseline expression (E(0)) and maximum effect (E(max)) were correlated with the E(0) and E(max) values of T-cell proliferation (r(2)=0.509 and r(2)=0.622, respectively). The CD25, CD71 expression and T-cell proliferation profiles were adequately fitted using a sigmoid inhibitory E(max) model. Low estimated values (2 mg/L) for 50% inhibitory MPA concentrations were obtained. This study confirmed a transient MPA concentration-dependent decrease in T-cells expressing CD25 and CD71 and a strong reduction of T-cell proliferation and showed that CD25 and CD71 expression was correlated with T-cell proliferation.
Induction immunosuppressive therapies in renal transplantation.	Induction immunosuppressive therapies for patients undergoing renal transplantation are reviewed.
In vivo T-cell depletion with pretransplant low-dose antithymocyte globulin is associated with reduced transplant-related mortality and improved clinical outcome in patients receiving allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from unrelated and partially matched related donors.	Graft versus host disease (GVHD) represents one of the major limiting factors to the successful applicability of hematopoietic stem cells transplantation (HSCT). In particular, allogeneic HSCT from alternative donors with unmanipulated graft results in an increased risk of both acute and chronic GVHD compared with matched sibling donor transplants [1]. At the present, none of the GVHD prophylactic strategies currently in use, including calcineurin inhibitors [2], T-lymphocyte depletion, and monoclonal antibodies [3,4], have been proven to be of superior efficacy over another.
Manipulating the bioenergetics of alloreactive T cells causes their selective apoptosis and arrests graft-versus-host disease.	Cells generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by glycolysis and by oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Despite the importance of having sufficient ATP available for the energy-dependent processes involved in immune activation, little is known about the metabolic adaptations that occur in vivo to meet the increased demand for ATP in activated and proliferating lymphocytes. We found that bone marrow (BM) cells proliferating after BM transplantation (BMT) increased aerobic glycolysis but not OXPHOS, whereas T cells proliferating in response to alloantigens during graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) increased both aerobic glycolysis and OXPHOS. Metabolomic analysis of alloreactive T cells showed an accumulation of acylcarnitines consistent with changes in fatty acid oxidation. Alloreactive T cells also exhibited a hyperpolarized mitochondrial membrane potential (m), increased superoxide production, and decreased amounts of antioxidants, whereas proliferating BM cells did not. Bz-423, a small-molecule inhibitor of the mitochondrial F(1)F(0) adenosine triphosphate synthase (F(1)F(0)-ATPase), selectively increased superoxide and induced the apoptosis of alloreactive T cells, which arrested established GVHD in several BMT models without affecting hematopoietic engraftment or lymphocyte reconstitution. These findings challenge the current paradigm that activated T cells meet their increased demands for ATP through aerobic glycolysis, and identify the possibility that bioenergetic and redox characteristics can be selectively exploited as a therapeutic strategy for immune disorders.
Recent advances in the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus]	INTERVENTIONAL APPROACHES TO BETA CELL PRESERVATION: In a pilot study, initial attempts at primary prevention by preserving islet beta cells have been successful with highly hydrolyzed milk formula in children who are at high genetic risk of diabetes. Attempts at secondary prevention by intranasal application in children with a high-risk HLA genotype and positive islet autoantibodies have been disappointing. But in tertiary prevention anti-inflammatory, antigen-directed and T-cell targeted treatment has been partially successful in slowing down the destruction of beta cells. BIOLOGICAL BETA CELL SUBSTITUTION: Transplantation of a vascularised pancreas or islet cells results in disease regression and the prevention of secondary/tertiary complications of diabetes. A principal aim is the avoidance of frequent, severe hypoglycaemic episodes resulting from markedly reduced awareness of hypoglycaemia or its counter-regulation.
Galectin 3 aggravates joint inflammation and destruction in antigen-induced arthritis.	Galectin 3, an endogenous -galactoside-binding lectin, plays an important role in the modulation of immune responses. The finding that galectin 3 is present in the inflamed synovium in patients with rheumatoid arthritis suggests that the protein is associated with the pathogenesis of this disease. We undertook this study to investigate the influence of galectin 3 deficiency in a murine model of arthritis.
A prospective dose-finding trial using a modified continual reassessment method for optimization of fludarabine plus melphalan conditioning for marrow transplantation from unrelated donors in patients with hematopoietic malignancies.	Because of the less graft-facilitating effect by bone marrow (BM), we need to assess a dosage of conditioning more accurately particularly in combination with reduced-intensity conditioning. Thus we examined that modified continual reassessment method (mCRM) is applicable for deciding appropriate conditioning of allogeneic BM transplantation.
Low-dose paclitaxel enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of GM-CSF surface-modified whole-tumor-cell vaccine in mouse model of prostate cancer.	Chemotherapy combined with a tumor vaccine is an attractive approach in cancer therapy. This study was designed to investigate the optimal schedule and mechanisms of action of a novel GM-CSF (granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor) surface-modified tumor-cell vaccine in combination with paclitaxel in the treatment of mouse RM-1 prostate cancer. First, the anti-tumor efficiencies of various dosage of paclitaxel (4, 20, 40mg/kg) in combination with the vaccine in different administration sequences were examined in the mouse RM-1 prostate cancer model. Then, the in vivo and in vitro effects of various dosage of paclitaxel on RM-1 cells, T cells, and DCs (dendritic cells) were evaluated. The results showed that: (a) the GM-CSF-surface-modified tumor-cell vaccine was more potent at inducing the uptake of tumor antigens by DCs than irradiated tumor cells plus free GM-CSF; (b) 4mg/kg paclitaxel combined with the GM-CSF-surface-modified tumor-cell vaccine was the most effective at enhancing tumor regression in RM-1 prostate cancer mice when the vaccine was administrated 2days after paclitaxel; and (c) administration of 4mg/kg paclitaxel followed by the vaccine induced the highest degree of CD8(+) T-cell infiltration in tumor tissue, suggesting that the induction of tumor-specific immune response had occurred. These findings suggested that the GM-CSF-surface-modified tumor-cell vaccine may have potential clinical benefit for patients with prostate cancer when it is combined with paclitaxel. Furthermore, the effect of immunochemotherapy depends on careful selection of paclitaxel dosage and the sequence of paclitaxel/vaccine administration.
Interleukin-33, a target of parathyroid hormone and oncostatin m, increases osteoblastic matrix mineral deposition and inhibits osteoclast formation in vitro.	IL-33 is an important inflammatory mediator in allergy, asthma, and joint inflammation, acting via its receptor, ST2L, to elicit Th cell cytokine secretion. IL-33 is related to IL-1 and IL-18, which both influence bone metabolism, IL-18 in particular inhibiting osteoclast formation and contributing to PTH bone anabolic actions. We found IL-33 immunostaining in osteoblasts in mouse bone and IL-33 mRNA expression in cultured calvarial osteoblasts, which was elevated by treatment with the bone anabolic factors oncostatin M and PTH. IL-33 treatment strongly inhibited osteoclast formation in bone marrow and spleen cell cultures but had no effect on osteoclast formation in receptor activator of nuclear factor-B ligand/macrophage colony-stimulating factor-treated bone marrow macrophage (BMM) or RAW264.7 cultures, suggesting a lack of direct action on immature osteoclast progenitors. However, osteoclast formation from BMM was inhibited by IL-33 in the presence of osteoblasts, T cells, or mature macrophages, suggesting these cell types may mediate some actions of IL-33. In bone marrow cultures, IL-33 induced mRNA expression of granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-4, IL-13, and IL-10; osteoclast inhibitory actions of IL-33 were rescued only by combined antibody ablation of these factors. In contrast to osteoclasts, IL-33 promoted matrix mineral deposition by long-term ascorbate treated primary osteoblasts and reduced sclerostin mRNA levels in such cultures after 6 and 24 h of treatment; sclerostin mRNA was also suppressed in IL-33-treated calvarial organ cultures. In summary, IL-33 stimulates osteoblastic function in vitro but inhibits osteoclast formation through at least three separate mechanisms. Autocrine and paracrine actions of osteoblast IL-33 may thus influence bone metabolism.
LIF in the regulation of T-cell fate and as a potential therapeutic.	At the heart of lineage commitment within the adaptive immune response is the intrinsic genetic plasticity of the naive peripheral T lymphocyte (T cell). Primary activation by presentation of cognate antigen is coupled to rapid T-cell cycling and progressive epigenetic changes that guide the cell down distinct T-cell lineages, either effector (Th1, Th2, Th17) or tolerogenic (Treg). Fate choice is influenced both by strength of the priming activation signal and by cues from the micro-environment that are integrated with lineage-specific gene expression profiles, eventually becoming hard-wired in the fully differentiated cell. The micro-environmental cues include cytokines, and the discovery that leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and interleukin (IL)-6 counter-regulate development of the Treg and Th17 lineages places LIF within the core regulatory circuitry of T cells. I first summarise current understanding of LIF and the LIF receptor in the context of T cells. Next, the central relevance of the LIF/IL-6 axis in immune-mediated disease is set in the context of (i) a new nano-therapeutic approach for targeted delivery of LIF and (ii) MARCH-7, a novel E3-ligase discovered to have a central mechanistic role in LIF-mediated T-cell biology, functioning as a rheostat-type regulator of endogenous LIF-signalling.
Sublingual therapeutic immunization with a polyvalent bacterial preparation in patients with recurrent respiratory infections: immunomodulatory effect on antigen-specific memory CD4+ T cells and impact on clinical outcome.	Recurrent respiratory tract infections (RRTIs) are common clinical conditions in individuals with alterations of the immune function. A prospective open pilot study in a cohort of patients with RRTIs has been performed to assess whether sublingual immunization with a polyvalent bacterial vaccine could exert an immunomodulatory effect on the antigen-specific immunological responses and have an impact on the clinical outcome. Seventeen patients with RRTIs were recruited. An oral polyvalent bacterial preparation (Bactek) was administered to all patients daily for 6 months. Immunological assessment was performed at baseline and at the end of immunization. Immunological measurements included: T cell-specific proliferations of CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8+ to Bactek antigens, total immunoglobulin levels, antibodies to pneumococcal polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid and B, T and natural killer (NK) cell subsets. There was a significant increase in the proliferative capacity of CD3+CD4+ T cells specific to Bactek antigens at month 6 in comparison to baseline (P < 00001). A significant increase in total CD3+ T cells was also observed (P < 005). No significant differences were observed between baseline and month 6 in levels of total immunoglobulins, specific antibodies and B, T or NK cell subsets. A significant reduction in the patient's rate of RRTIs was observed compared with 1 year prior to initiation of therapy (P < 00001). The results demonstrate that long-term administration of a sublingual polyvalent bacterial preparation in patients with RRTIs exerts an immune stimulating effect on CD4+ T helper cell responses to bacterial antigens which could be associated with clinical benefit.
Adjuvant combination and antigen targeting as a strategy to induce polyfunctional and high-avidity T-cell responses against poorly immunogenic tumors.	Low antigen expression and an absence of coimmunostimulatory signals may be partly responsible for the low immunogenicity of many tumors. It may be possible to overcome this situation by defining a combination of adjuvants and antigens that can activate a high-avidity antitumor response. Using the poorly immunogenic B16-OVA melanoma cells as tumor model, we tested different combinations of adjuvants and antigens to treat established tumors. In the absence of exogenous antigens, repeated administration of the TLR7 ligand Imiquimod together with anti-CD40 agonistic antibodies activated only innate immunity, which was insufficient to reject intradermal tumors. Administering this adjuvant combination together with OVA as a tumor antigen induced T-cell responses that delayed tumor growth. However, administering a combination of anti-CD40 plus TLR3 and TLR7 ligands, together with antigen targeting to dendritic cells through TLR4, was sufficient to induce tumor rejection in 50% of mice. This response was associated with a greater activation of innate immunity and induction of high-avidity polyfunctional CD8(+) T-cell responses, which each contributed to tumor rejection. This therapy activated T-cell responses not only against OVA, which conferred protection against a rechallenge with B16-OVA cells, but also activated T-cell responses against other melanoma-associated antigens. Our findings support the concept that multiple adjuvant combination and antigen targeting may be a useful immunotherapeutic strategy against poorly immunogenic tumors.
Small molecule antagonists of CCR8 inhibit eosinophil and T cell migration.	In this study, we demonstrate that in addition to T lymphocytes, human nave eosinophils and the differentiated eosinophil-like cell line, AML14.3D10 express CCR8 and respond to CCL1 through CCR8 engagement. The responsiveness of cells was dependent on maturation stage, since CCL1 induced pronounced chemotaxis only in differentiated CCR8 positive AML14.3D10 cells. Despite the low CCR8 surface expression, human nave eosinophils respond with a chemotaxis to high concentration CCL1. We further describe that Th2 clones in a maturation dependent fashion produce autocrine CCL1, which renders them unresponsive to further stimulation. An innovative method to enrich primary CCR8 reactive T cells was developed which demonstrates that primary peripheral CCR8 expressing T cells respond significantly to CCL1. We have developed novel small molecule CCR8 antagonists that are effective in inhibiting calcium mobilization and chemotaxis in differentiated AML cells as well as in human primary CCR8 positive T cells. Importantly, we demonstrate that the compounds can be divided into two subgroups: (i) compounds that are functional agonists for calcium mobilization and chemotaxis (ii) compounds that are pure antagonists. We demonstrate that agonism of these compounds does not correlate with their antagonistic potency. Taken together, we have identified a novel set of CCR8 compounds with antagonistic properties that inhibit CCL1 driven chemotaxis in both CCR8 expressing eosinophils as well as primary human T cells.
Curcumin blocks interleukin (IL)-2 signaling in T-lymphocytes by inhibiting IL-2 synthesis, CD25 expression, and IL-2 receptor signaling.	Curcumin (diferulomethane) is the principal curcuminoid in the spice tumeric and a potent inhibitor of activation-induced T-lymphocyte proliferation; however, the molecular basis of this immunosuppressive effect has not been well studied. Here we show that micromolar concentrations of curcumin inhibited DNA synthesis by mouse CD4(+) T-lymphocytes, as well as interleukin-2 (IL-2) and CD25 ( chain of the high affinity IL-2 receptor) expression in response to antibody-mediated cross-linking of CD3 and CD28. Curcumin acted downstream of protein kinase C activation and intracellular Ca(2+) release to inhibit IB phosphorylation, which is required for nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NFB. In addition, IL-2-dependent DNA synthesis by mouse CTLL-2 cells, but not constitutive CD25 expression, was impaired in the presence of curcumin, which demonstrated an inhibitory effect on IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) signaling. IL-2-induced phosphorylation of STAT5A and JAK3, but not JAK1, was diminished in the presence of curcumin, indicating inhibition of critical proximal events in IL-2R signaling. In line with the inhibitory action of curcumin on IL-2R signaling, pretreatment of CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T-cells with curcumin downregulated suppressor function, as well as forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) expression. We conclude that curcumin inhibits IL-2 signaling by reducing available IL-2 and high affinity IL-2R, as well as interfering with IL-2R signaling.
The high expression level of programmed death-1 ligand 2 in oral lichen planus and the possible costimulatory effect on human T cells.	Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a T-cell-mediated chronic autoimmune disease whose precise etiology is unknown. The recently identified costimulatory programmed death-1 (PD-1) molecule and its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, have been identified as CD28-B7 family molecules and constitute a regulatory pathway of potential therapeutic use in immune-mediated diseases.
Calcium channel blockers and modulation of innate immunity.	Researchers and physicians are gaining more understanding of the utility of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) especially in modulation of innate immunity, and choose suitable ones in clinical practice. This review summarizes the recent related research findings.
The anti-inflammatory effect of the SOCC blocker SK&F 96365 on mouse lymphocytes after stimulation by Con A or PMA/ionomycin.	SK&F 96365, 51-(beta-[3-(p-methoxyphenyl)-propyloxy]-p-methoxyphenethyl)-1H-imidazole hydrochloride, has emerged as a useful pharmacological tool in the study of store-operated Ca entry (SOCE). But the precise molecular mechanism and effect of SK&F 96365 on mouse lymphocytes are still not well determined. This study investigated the pharmacological profile of SK&F 96365 on mouse lymphocytes stimulated by mitogen concanavalin A (Con A) or by a combination of a protein kinase C (PKC) activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and a calcium ionophore, ionomycin in vitro. Our results showed that SK&F 96365 pre-treatment diminished the cytosolic calcium rise on lymphocytes induced by ionomycin, PMA/ionomycin, and thapsigargin (TG), respectively. CFDA-SE staining results showed that SK&F 96365 (5-20 M) inhibited both Con A- and PMA/ionomycin-induced lymphocytes proliferation in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Upon the same stimulation, SK&F 96365 inhibited the expression of CD69 and CD25 on CD3 T lymphocytes in a dose-dependent manner. The cell cycle analyzing results showed that SK&F 96365 caused a G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest on both Con A- and PMA/ionomycin-activated lymphocytes in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, SK&F 96365 induced a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential (m) and promoted mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) in both Con A- and PMA/ionomycin-activated lymphocytes. Furthermore, SK&F 96365 significantly inhibited the production of proinflammatory cytokines (interferon (IFN)- and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)), and the anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) on both Con A- and PMA/ionomycin-activated lymphocytes. SK&F 96365 did not induce a statistically significant increase in levels of proinflammatory IL-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) but of IL-12p70 upon the stimulation of Con A, whereas these three cytokines were markedly inhibited by it upon the stimulation of PMA/ionomycin. This finding revealed that SK&F 96365 exhibited an anti-inflammatory effect on mouse lymphocytes both upon the stimulation of Con A and PMA/ionomycin, and the precise mechanism of SK&F 96365 inhibiting Con A-activated lymphocytes proliferation is different from PMA/ionomycin.
Characterization of the immune response of human cord-blood derived gamma/delta T cells to stimulation with aminobisphosphonate compounds.	V9V2 T lymphocytes have been shown to respond to a variety of non-peptide antigens including alkylamines and phosphoantigens. Recently, aminobisphosphonates have also been shown to stimulate this subset of + T cells. In this study we analyzed the proliferative responses of freshly isolated  T lymphocytes obtained from human cord blood when challenged with pyrophosphomonoesters or aminobisphosphonates. Nitrogen-containing aminobisphopsphonates, in contrast to phoshoantigens, readily stimulated expansion of V2V9 cells in human cord blood. Expanded cells displayed an activated mature phenotype, and were capable of producing TNFalpha and IFNgamma but not perforin following secondary stimulation, consistent with the development of a regulatory, as opposed to cytotoxic, phenotype. This approach may provide a useful strategy for a new approach to the treatment of neonatal pathologies.
Zoledronic acid enhances V2 T-lymphocyte antitumor response to human glioma cell lines.	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most frequent and aggressive primary brain tumor in humans, responds modestly to treatment: most patients survive less than one year after diagnosis, despite both classical and innovative treatment approaches. A recent paper focused on  T-cell response in GBM patients, suggesting the application of an immunomodulating strategy based on  T-cells which is already in clinical trials for other tumors. Human V2 T-cells recognize changes in the mevalonate metabolic pathway of transformed cells by activating cytotoxic response, and by cytokine and chemokine release. Interestingly, this activation may also be induced in vivo by drugs, such as zoledronic acid, that induce the accumulation of V2 T-cell ligand Isopentenyl-pyrophosphate by blocking the farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme. The aim of our work is to confirm whether bisphosphonate treatment would make glioma cell lines more susceptible to lysis by in vitro expanded  T-cells, improving their antitumor activity. We expanded in vitro human V2 T-cells by phosphoantigen stimulation and tested their activity against glioma cell lines. Co-culture with glioma cells induced V2 T-cell differentiation in effector/memory cells, killing glioma cells by the release of perforin. Interestingly, glioma cells were directly affected by zoledronic acid; moreover, treatment increased their activating ability on V2 T-cells, inducing an effective antitumor cytotoxic response. Taken together, our results show that aminobisphosphonate drugs may play a dual role against GBM, by directly affecting tumor cells, and by enhancing the antitumor response of V2 T-cells. Our results confirm the practicability of this approach as a new immunotherapeutic strategy for GBM treatment.
Peculiarities of immune disorders in workers of activated carbon production]	One of priority approaches in occupational medicine and health risk evaluation is study of immune system features in individuals exposed to occupational chemical hazards. The studies revealed reliable changes in immune parameters (positive annexin tag, disorders of cytokine profile)-- that proves retarded apoptosis precesses in workers engaged into activated carbon and coagulants production. Marked disorders of cellular regulation in machinery operators of activated carbon and coagulants production are seen with observed normal content of phenol in the air of workplace.
Study of toxicity of denture prosthetic appliance prothyl hot on the Jurkat cell model system]	The aim of our study was the investigation of toxicity of denture prosthetic appliance Prothyl Hot on the model system of Jurkat cell culture. As a result of our study it was revealed that denture prosthetic appliance Prothyl Hot: - hadn't manifested toxic effects the viability Jurkat cells (that reviled by stability of activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenises and mean of mitochondrial membrane potential; - didn't influence on the balance of pro-and antyinflammatory cytokines, expressed by Jurkat cells; - induces intensification of oxidative metabolism in Jurkat cells, which may be considered as compensatory reaction developing in the cells.
The AP-1 binding sites located in the pol gene intragenic regulatory region of HIV-1 are important for viral replication.	Our laboratory has previously identified an important intragenic region in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genome, whose complete functional unit is composed of the 5103 fragment, the DNaseI-hypersensitive site HS7 and the 5105 fragment. These fragments (5103 and 5105) both exhibit a phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-inducible enhancer activity on the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase promoter. Here, we characterized the three previously identified AP-1 binding sites of fragment 5103 by showing the PMA-inducible in vitro binding and in vivo recruitment of c-Fos, JunB and JunD to this fragment located at the end of the pol gene. Functional analyses demonstrated that the intragenic AP-1 binding sites are fully responsible for the PMA-dependent enhancer activity of fragment 5103. Moreover, infection of T-lymphoid Jurkat and promonocytic U937 cells with wild-type and mutant viruses demonstrated that mutations of the intragenic AP-1 sites individually or in combination altered HIV-1 replication. Importantly, mutations of the three intragenic AP-1 sites led to a decreased in vivo recruitment of RNA polymerase II to the viral promoter, strongly supporting that the deleterious effect of these mutations on viral replication occurs, at least partly, at the transcriptional level. Single-round infections of monocyte-derived macrophages confirmed the importance of intragenic AP-1 sites for HIV-1 infectivity.
Combination of lentivector immunization and low-dose chemotherapy or PD-1/PD-L1 blocking primes self-reactive T cells and induces anti-tumor immunity.	In the last two decades, anti-cancer vaccines have yielded disappointing clinical results despite the fact that high numbers of self/tumor-specific T cells can be elicited in immunized patients. Understanding the reasons behind this lack of efficacy is critical in order to design better treatment regimes. Recombinant lentivectors (rLVs) have been successfully used to induce antigen-specific T cells to foreign or mutated tumor antigens. Here, we show that rLV expressing a murine nonmutated self/tumor antigen efficiently primes large numbers of self/tumor-specific CD8(+) T cells. In spite of the large number of tumor-specific T cells, however, no anti-tumor activity could be measured in a therapeutic setting, in mice vaccinated with rLV. Accumulating evidence shows that, in the presence of malignancies, inhibition of T-cell activity may predominate overstimulation. Analysis of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes revealed that specific anti-tumor CD8(+) T cells fail to produce cytokines and express high levels of inhibitory receptors such as programmed death (PD)-1. Association of active immunization with chemotherapy or antibodies that block inhibitory pathways often leads to better anti-tumor effects. We show here that combining rLV vaccination with either cyclophosphamide or PD-1 and PD-L1 blocking antibodies enhances rLV vaccination efficacy and improves anti-tumor immunity.
Oral GABA treatment downregulates inflammatory responses in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthritis.	Current treatments for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have long-term side effects such that new treatments are needed that can safely help manage the disease. There is a growing appreciation that GABA receptors (GABA-Rs) on immune cells provide new targets that can be used to modulate immune cell activity. Here, we show for the first time that activation of peripheral GABA-Rs can inhibit the development of disease in the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model of RA. Mice that received oral GABA had a reduced incidence of CIA, and those mice that did develop CIA had milder symptoms. T cells from GABA-treated mice displayed reduced proliferative responses to collagen and their APC had a reduced ability to promote the proliferation of collagen-reactive T cells. Thus, GABA downregulated both T-cell autoimmunity and APC activity. Collagen-reactive T cells from GABA-treated mice displayed reduced recall responses in the presence of GABA ex vivo, indicating that GABA consumption did not desensitize these cells to GABA. GABA-treated mice had reduced collagen-reactive IgG2a, but not IgG1 antibodies, consistent with reduced Th1 help. The levels of serum anti-collagen IgG2a antibodies were correlated significantly with the CIA disease scores of individual mice. Our results suggest that activation of peripheral GABA-Rs may provide a new modality to modulate T cell, B cell, and APC activity and help ameliorate RA and other inflammatory diseases.
Induction of regulatory T cells by green tea polyphenol EGCG.	Regulatory T cells (Treg) are critical in maintaining immune tolerance and suppressing autoimmunity. The transcription factor Foxp3 serves as a master switch that controls the development and function of Treg. Foxp3 expression is epigenetically regulated by DNA methylation, and DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitors can induce Foxp3 expression in naive CD4(+) T cells. We showed that EGCG, a major green tea polyphenol, could act as a dietary DNMT inhibitor, and induced Foxp3 and IL-10 expression in CD4(+) Jurkat T cells at physiologically relevant concentrations in vitro. We further showed that mice treated with EGCG in vivo had significantly increased Treg frequencies and numbers in spleen and lymph nodes and had inhibited T cell response. Induction of Foxp3 expression correlated with a concomitant reduction in DNMT expression and a decrease in global DNA methylation. Our data suggested that EGCG can induce Foxp3 expression and increase Treg frequency via a novel epigenetic mechanism. While the DNMT inhibitory effects of EGCG was not as potent as pharmacologic agents such as 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, the ability of dietary agents to target similar mechanisms offers opportunities for potentially sustained and longer-term exposures with lower toxicity. Our work provides the foundation for future studies to further examine and evaluate dietary strategies to modulate immune function.
Direct effects of carbon nanotubes on dendritic cells induce immune suppression upon pulmonary exposure.	Pharyngeal aspiration of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) caused inflammation, pulmonary damage, and an altered cytokine network in the lung. Local inflammatory response in vivo was accompanied by modified systemic immunity as documented by decreased proliferation of splenic T cells. Preincubation of naive T cells in vitro with SWCNT-treated dendritic cells reduced proliferation of T cells. Our data suggest that in vivo exposure to SWCNT modifies systemic immunity by modulating dendritic cell function.
Akt-dependent glucose metabolism promotes Mcl-1 synthesis to maintain cell survival and resistance to Bcl-2 inhibition.	Most cancer cells utilize aerobic glycolysis, and activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt/mTOR pathway can promote this metabolic program to render cells glucose dependent. Although manipulation of glucose metabolism may provide a means to specifically eliminate cancer cells, mechanistic links between cell metabolism and apoptosis remain poorly understood. Here, we examined the role and metabolic regulation of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family protein Mcl-1 in cell death upon inhibition of Akt-induced aerobic glycolysis. In the presence of adequate glucose, activated Akt prevented the loss of Mcl-1 expression and protected cells from growth factor deprivation-induced apoptosis. Mcl-1 associated with and inhibited the proapoptotic Bcl-2 family protein Bim, contributing to cell survival. However, suppression of glucose metabolism led to induction of Bim, decreased expression of Mcl-1, and apoptosis. The proapoptotic Bcl-2/Bcl-xL/Bcl-w inhibitor, ABT-737, shows clinical promise, but Mcl-1 upregulation can promote resistance. Importantly, inhibition of glucose metabolism or mTORC1 overcame Mcl-1-mediated resistance in diffuse large B cell leukemic cells. Together these data show that Mcl-1 protein synthesis is tightly controlled by metabolism and that manipulation of glucose metabolism may provide a mechanism to suppress Mcl-1 expression and sensitize cancer cells to apoptosis.
Immunomodulatory activity of Lactobacillus strains isolated from fermented vegetables and infant stool.	Four Lactobacillus strains- Lactobacillus plantarum CJLP133, L. plantarum CJLP243, L. plantarum CJNR26, and Lactobacillus gasseri CJMF3- were isolated from Korean fermented food or healthy infant feces, and their capacity to modulate cellular and humoral immune responses was studied. Feeding of the tested lactobacilli for 8weeks did not alter the weight of and cell numbers in the spleen of mice. However, CJLP133 and CJLP243 strains increased the T lymphocyte population in the spleen of mice, while CJNR26 and CJMF3 increased the B lymphocyte population. In splenocytes treated with concanavalin A, ingestion of CJLP133 and CJLP243 promoted T lymphocyte proliferation and secretion of T cell cytokines, whereas feeding of the CJNR26 and CJMF3 strains enhanced B lymphocyte proliferation in splenocytes treated with lipopolysaccharide and plaque formation. These results suggest that CJLP133 and CJLP243 have immunostimulating activity through the enhancement of T cell activation, while CJNR26 and CJMF3 exhibit immunopotentiation through the increment of B cell activation.
Current state of type 1 diabetes immunotherapy: incremental advances, huge leaps, or more of the same?	Thus far, none of the preclinically successful and promising immunomodulatory agents for type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) has conferred stable, long-term insulin independence to diabetic patients. The majority of these immunomodulators are humanised antibodies that target immune cells or cytokines. These as well as fusion proteins and inhibitor proteins all share varying adverse event occurrence and severity. Other approaches have included intact putative autoantigens or autoantigen peptides. Considerable logistical outlays have been deployed to develop and to translate humanised antibodies targeting immune cells, cytokines, and cytokine receptors to the clinic. Very recent phase III trials with the leading agent, a humanised anti-CD3 antibody, call into question whether further development of these biologics represents a step forward or more of the same. Combination therapies of one or more of these humanised antibodies are also being considered, and they face identical, if not more serious, impediments and safety issues. This paper will highlight the preclinical successes and the excitement generated by phase II trials while offering alternative possibilities and new translational avenues that can be explored given the very recent disappointment in leading agents in more advanced clinical trials.
IL-22 is produced by innate lymphoid cells and limits inflammation in allergic airway disease.	Interleukin (IL)-22 is an effector cytokine, which acts primarily on epithelial cells in the skin, gut, liver and lung. Both pro- and anti-inflammatory properties have been reported for IL-22 depending on the tissue and disease model. In a murine model of allergic airway inflammation, we found that IL-22 is predominantly produced by innate lymphoid cells in the inflamed lungs, rather than TH cells. To determine the impact of IL-22 on airway inflammation, we used allergen-sensitized IL-22-deficient mice and found that they suffer from significantly higher airway hyperreactivity upon airway challenge. IL-22-deficiency led to increased eosinophil infiltration lymphocyte invasion and production of CCL17 (TARC), IL-5 and IL-13 in the lung. Mice treated with IL-22 before antigen challenge displayed reduced expression of CCL17 and IL-13 and significant amelioration of airway constriction and inflammation. We conclude that innate IL-22 limits airway inflammation, tissue damage and clinical decline in allergic lung disease.
Ubenimex capsule improves general performance and chemotherapy related toxicity in advanced gastric cancer cases.	To evaluate the effect of ubenimex capsule on general performance and chemotherapy related toxicity in patients with advanced gastric cancer undergoing chemotherapy.
Oxysterols direct B-cell migration through EBI2.	EBI2 (also called GPR183) is an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor that is highly expressed in spleen and upregulated upon Epstein-Barr-virus infection. Recent studies indicated that this receptor controls follicular B-cell migration and T-cell-dependent antibody production. Oxysterols elicit profound effects on immune and inflammatory responses as well as on cholesterol metabolism. The biological effects of oxysterols have largely been credited to the activation of nuclear hormone receptors. Here we isolate oxysterols from porcine spleen extracts and show that they are endogenous ligands for EBI2. The most potent ligand and activator is 7,25-dihydroxycholesterol (OHC), with a dissociation constant of 450pM for EBI2. In vitro, 7,25-OHC stimulated the migration of EBI2-expressing mouse B and T cells with half-maximum effective concentration values around 500 pM, but had no effect on EBI2-deficient cells. In vivo, EBI2-deficient B cells or normal B cells desensitized by 7,25-OHC pre-treatment showed reduced homing to follicular areas of the spleen. Blocking the synthesis of 7,25-OHC in vivo with clotrimazole, a CYP7B1 inhibitor, reduced the content of 7,25-OHC in the mouse spleen and promoted the migration of adoptively transferred pre-activated B cells to the T/B boundary (the boundary between the T-zone and B-zone in the spleen follicle), mimicking the phenotype of pre-activated B cells from EBI2-deficient mice. Our results show an unexpected causal link between EBI2, an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor controlling B-cell migration, and the known immunological effects of certain oxysterols, thus uncovering a previously unknown role for this class of molecules.
Simultaneous removal of T and B cell epitope in recombinant staphylokinase by structure-based mutagenesis of immuno-dominant Arg77 and Glu80 residues.	To reduce immunogenicity of recombined staphylokinase (r-Sak) , site-directed mutagenesis of Arg77 and Glu80 residue was performed to simultaneously remove T and B cell epitope in r-Sak molecule.
Immunomodulatory activity of a lupane triterpenoid ester isolated from the eastern Nigeria mistletoe, Loranthus micranthus (Linn).	To provide further evidence for the ethnomedicinal use of the Eastern Nigeria mistletoe, Loranthus micranthus (L. micranthus), as an immunostimulant.
Current adjuvants and new perspectives in vaccine formulation.	Given the important role of adjuvants in prophylactic vaccines, identification and development of new adjuvants with enhanced efficacy and safety is necessary. The use of adjuvants with immunopotentiating properties that can direct the immune responses to humoral or cell-mediated immunity and can induce T-cell responses has made it possible to design more protective vaccines. Although current regulations focus on traditional adjuvants, notably aluminum and calcium salts, advances have been made in regulatory considerations. The regulatory agencies for the evaluation of medicinal products are actively drafting guidance on requirements for the evaluation of new adjuvants. This article briefly summarizes the most widely studied adjuvants in vaccination, including those licensed for human vaccines and the regulatory aspects relevant to adjuvant quality at development stages.
Probiotic modulation of dendritic cells and T cell responses in the intestine.	Over the past decade it has become clear that probiotic and commensal interactions with mucosal dendritic cells in the lamina propria or epithelial cells lining the mucosa can modulate specific functions of the mucosal immune system. Innate pattern-recognition receptors such as TLRs, NLRs and CLRs play a crucial role in the host recognition of probiotics and other microorganism. Signalling via these receptors directly influences the chemokine and cytokine response of dendritic cells as well as the crosstalk between the epithelium and the immune cells in the lamina propria. This can influence the population of effector and regulatory T cell subsets in the mucosa. Immune assays with probiotics have shown that the in vitro immune response is both species and strain-specific. Such assays may be useful for the selection of probiotic strains that have beneficial effects on the regulation of intestinal inflammation but more comparative studies are needed to confirm recent findings. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of probiotics, the effect of dose, and frequency of administration on microbial sampling by mucosal APC will also help to clarify the value of immune assays as selection criteria for probiotics.
Measurements of immune responses for establishing correlates of vaccine protection against HIV.	Well-defined correlates of protective immunity are an essential component of rational vaccine development. Despite years of basic science and three HIV vaccine efficacy trials, correlates of immunological protection from HIV infection remain undefined. In December 2010, a meeting of scientists engaged in basic and translational work toward developing HIV-1 vaccines was convened. The goal of this meeting was to discuss current opportunities and optimal approaches for defining correlates of protection, both for ongoing and future HIV-1 vaccine candidates; specific efforts were made to engage young scientists. We discuss here the highlights from the meeting regarding the progress made and the way forward for a protective HIV-1 vaccine.
Staphylococcal superantigen (TSST-1) mutant analysis reveals that t cell activation is required for biological effects in the rabbit including the cytokine storm.	Staphylococcal superantigens (sAgs), such as toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1), induce massive cytokine production, which may result in toxic shock syndrome (TSS) and sepsis. Recently, we reported that in vitro studies in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) do not reflect the immunological situation of the host, because after exposure to superantigens (sAgs) in vivo, mononuclear cells (MNC) leave the circulation and migrate to organs, e.g., the spleen, liver and lung. Our experimental model of choice is the rabbit because it is comparable to humans in its sensitivity to sAg. T cell activation has been assessed by lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 gene expression after in vivo challenge with TSST-1 and the mutant antigens; expression of the genes of proinflammatory cytokines were taken as indicators for the inflammatory reaction after the combined treatment with TSST-1 and LPS. The question as to whether the biological activities of TSST-1, e.g., lymphocyte extravasation, toxicity and increased sensitivity to LPS, are mediated by T cell activation or activation by MHC II-only, are unresolved and results are contradictory. We have addressed this question by studying these reactions in vivo, with two TSST-1 mutants: one mutated at the MHC binding site (G31R) with reduced MHC binding with residual activity still present, and the other at the T cell binding site (H135A) with no residual function detectable. Here, we report that the mutant G31R induced all the biological effects of the wild type sAg, while the mutant with non-functional TCR binding did not retain any of the toxic effects, proving the pivotal role of T cells in this system.
Effect of dietary vanadium on the ileac T cells and contents of cytokines in broilers.	The purpose of this 42-day study was to examine the effect of dietary vanadium on the ileac T cells and contents of cytokines including interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interferon-gamma (IFN-) in broilers by flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A total of 420 one-day-old avian broilers were divided into six groups (seven replicates in each group and ten broilers in each replicate) and fed on control diet or the same diet supplemented with 5, 15, 30, 45, and 60 mg/kg vanadium in the form of ammonium metavanadate. The results showed that the percentages of CD3(+), CD3(+)CD4(+), and CD3(+)CD8(+) T cells in both ileac lamina propria lymphocytes (LPLs) and intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) were significantly lower (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) in the 45- and 60-mg/kg groups than in the control group from 14 to 42 days of age. The CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio was increased in ileac LPLs in the 60-mg/kg group at 28 days of age, and in ileac IELs in the 60-mg/kg group at 28 days of age and in the 45-mg/kg group at 42 days of age. Meanwhile, the ileac IL-2, IL-6 contents were decreased (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) in the 60-mg/kg group from 14 to 42 days of age and in the 45-mg/kg group from 28 to 42 days of age in comparison with those of the control group. It was concluded that dietary vanadium in excess of 30 mg/kg reduced the ileac T cell population and percentages of T cell subsets, and IL-2, IL-6, and IFN- contents, implying that the immune function of local intestinal mucosa in broilers could be affected by the dietary vanadium.
Effects of aluminum on immune functions of cultured splenic T and B lymphocytes in rats.	The effects of Aluminum (Al) exposure on immune functions of cultured splenic T and B lymphocytes of rats were studied. The lymphocytes were isolated from spleen of healthy male Wistar rats weighing 110-120 g. The cultured cells in RPMI-1640 medium were exposed to 0 (control group), 0.035 (low-dose group), 0.07 (medial-dose group), and 0.14 (high-dose group) mg/mL Al(3+) as aluminum trichloride (AlCl(3)) in an incubator under 5% CO(2) at 37C for 24 h. The T and B lymphocyte proliferation was measured with a tetrazolium dye colorimetric assay. The levels of interleukin (IL)-2, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- were determined by iodine [(125)I] IL-2, IL-6, and TNF- radioimmunoassay kits, respectively. The proportions of CD3(+), CD4(+), and CD8(+) T lymphocytes were measured with a flow cytometer. The results showed that the T and B lymphocyte proliferation, the levels of IL-2, IL-6, TNF-, the proportions of CD3(+) and CD4(+) T lymphocytes, and the ratio of CD4(+)/CD8(+) T lymphocytes were lowered by Al treatments, while the proportion of CD8(+) T lymphocytes was increased. These findings indicate that Al exposure can inhibit the immune functions of splenic T and B lymphocytes of rats in vitro.
T cell lessons from the rheumatoid arthritis synovium SCID mouse model: CD3-rich synovium lacks response to CTLA-4Ig but is successfully treated by interleukin-17 neutralization.	To provide an intermediate step between classic arthritis models and clinical trials, the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium SCID mouse model is a valuable tool for use during preclinical research. We undertook this study to investigate the validity of this humanized mouse model using anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) and anti-interleukin-1 (anti-IL-1) treatment and to investigate the direct effect of T cells- and B cell-related therapies on the transplanted RA synovial tissue.
Effect of prostaglandin I2 analogs on cytokine expression in human myeloid dendritic cells via epigenetic regulation.	Prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)) analog is regarded as a potential candidate for treating asthma. Human myeloid dendritic cells (mDCs) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of asthma. However, the effects of PGI(2) analog on human mDCs are unknown. In the present study, circulating mDCs were isolated from six healthy subjects. The effects of PGI(2) analogs iloprost and treprostinil on cytokine production, maturation and T-cell stimulatory function of human mDCs were investigated. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- and interleukin (IL)-10 were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of costimulatory molecules was investigated by flow cytometry. T-cell stimulatory function was investigated by measuring interferon (IFN)-, IL-13 and IL-10 production by T cells cocultured with iloprost-treated mDCs. Intracellular signaling was investigated by Western blot and chromatin immunoprecipitation. We found that iloprost and treprostinil induced IL-10, but suppressed TNF- production in polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly I:C)-stimulated mDCs. This effect was reversed by the I-prostanoid (IP), E-prostanoid (EP) receptor antagonists or intracellular free calcium (Ca(2+)) chelator. Forskolin, an adenyl cyclase activator, conferred a similar effect. Iloprost and treprostinil increased intracellular adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) levels, and iloprost also increased intracellular Ca(2+). Iloprost suppressed poly I:C-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phospho-p38 and phospho-activating transcription factor (ATF)2 expression. Iloprost downregulated poly I:C-induced histone H3K4 trimethylation in the TNFA gene promoter region via suppressing translocation of histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4)-specific methyltransferases MLL (mixed lineage leukemia) and WDR5 (WD repeat domain 5). Iloprost-treated mDCs inhibited IL-13, IFN- and IL-10 production by T cells. In conclusion, PGI(2) analogs enhance IL-10 and suppress TNF- expression through the IP/EP2/EP4 receptors-cAMP and EP1 receptor-Ca(2+) pathway. Iloprost suppressed TNF- expression via the MAPK-p38-ATF2 pathway and epigenetic regulation by downregulation of histone H3K4 trimethylation.
CXCR4 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 are key chemokine/adhesion receptors in the migration of cytokine-activated T cells.	To examine the migratory properties of cytokine-activated T (Tck) cells.
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 promotes CD200 expression by human peripheral and airway-resident T cells.	CD200, a cell-surface immunoglobulin-like molecule expressed by immune and stromal cells, dampens the pro-inflammatory activity of tissue-resident innate cells via its receptor, CD200R. This interaction appears critical for peripheral immune tolerance, particularly in the airways where excessive inflammation is undesirable. Vitamin D contributes to pulmonary health and promotes regulatory immune pathways, therefore its influence on CD200 and CD200R was investigated.
Dispersion serial dilution methods using the gradient diluter device.	A solute aspirated into a prefilled tube of diluent undergoes a dilution effect known as dispersion. Traditionally the effects of dispersion have been considered a negative consequence of using liquid-filled fixed-tip liquid handlers. We present a novel device and technique that utilizes the effects of dispersion to the benefit of making dilutions. The device known as the Gradient Diluter extends the dilution range of practical serial dilutions to six orders of magnitude in final volumes as low as 10L. Presented are the device, dispersion methods, and validation tests using fluorescence detection of sulforhodamine and the high-performance liquid chromatography/ultraviolet detection of furosemide. In addition, a T-cell inhibition assay of a relevant downstream protein is used to demonstrate IC(50) curves made with the Gradient Diluter compare favorably with those generated by hand.
Proteomic analysis of Terminalia chebula extract-dependent changes in human lymphoblastic T cell protein expression.	Terminalia chebula is a native plant from southern Asia to southwestern China that is used in traditional medicine for the treatment of malignant tumors and diabetes. This plant also has antibacterial and immunomodulatory properties. The present study assessed T. chebula extract-dependent protein expression changes in Jurkat cells. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) were performed to assess protein expression and networks, respectively. A comparative proteomic profile was determined in T. chebula extract (50 g/mL)-treated and control cells; the expressions of -tubulin, ring finger and CHY zinc finger domain containing 1, and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor kinase were significantly down-regulated in T. chebula extract-treated Jurkat cells. Moreover, the molecular basis for the T. chebula extract-dependent protein expression changes in Jurkat cells was determined by IPA. Treatment with the T. chebula extract significantly inhibited nuclear factor-B activity and affected the proteomic profile of Jurkat cells. The molecular network signatures and functional proteomics obtained in this study may facilitate the evaluation of potential antitumor therapeutic targets and elucidate the molecular mechanism of T. chebula extract-dependent effects in Jurkat cells.
Factoring-in agglomeration of carbon nanotubes and nanofibers for better prediction of their toxicity versus asbestos.	Carbon nanotubes (CNT) and carbon nanofibers (CNF) are allotropes of carbon featuring fibrous morphology. The dimensions and high aspect ratio of CNT and CNF have prompted the comparison with naturally occurring asbestos fibers which are known to be extremely pathogenic. While the toxicity and hazardous outcomes elicited by airborne exposure to single-walled CNT or asbestos have been widely reported, very limited data are currently available describing adverse effects of respirable CNF.
Butyrate suppresses colonic inflammation through HDAC1-dependent Fas upregulation and Fas-mediated apoptosis of T cells.	Butyrate, an intestinal microbiota metabolite of dietary fiber, has been shown to exhibit protective effects toward inflammatory diseases such as ulcerative colitis (UC) and inflammation-mediated colorectal cancer. Recent studies have shown that chronic IFN- signaling plays an essential role in inflammation-mediated colorectal cancer development in vivo, whereas genome-wide association studies have linked human UC risk loci to IFNG, the gene that encodes IFN-. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the butyrate-IFN--colonic inflammation axis are not well defined. Here we showed that colonic mucosa from patients with UC exhibit increased signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation, and this STAT1 hyperactivation is correlated with increased T cell infiltration. Butyrate treatment-induced apoptosis of wild-type T cells but not Fas-deficient (Fas(lpr)) or FasL-deficient (Fas(gld)) T cells, revealing a potential role of Fas-mediated apoptosis of T cells as a mechanism of butyrate function. Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) was found to bind to the Fas promoter in T cells, and butyrate inhibits HDAC1 activity to induce Fas promoter hyperacetylation and Fas upregulation in T cells. Knocking down gpr109a or slc5a8, the genes that encode for receptor and transporter of butyrate, respectively, resulted in altered expression of genes related to multiple inflammatory signaling pathways, including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), in mouse colonic epithelial cells in vivo. Butyrate effectively inhibited IFN--induced STAT1 activation, resulting in inhibition of iNOS upregulation in human colon epithelial and carcinoma cells in vitro. Our data thus suggest that butyrate delivers a double-hit: induction of T cell apoptosis to eliminate the source of inflammation and suppression of IFN--mediated inflammation in colonic epithelial cells, to suppress colonic inflammation.
Huperzine A ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis via the suppression of T cell-mediated neuronal inflammation in mice.	Huperzine A (HupA), a sesquiterpene alkaloid and a potent and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, possesses potential anti-inflammatory properties and is used for the treatment of certain neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. However, it is still unknown whether this chemical is beneficial in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, a progressive inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. In this study, we examined the immunomodulatory properties of HupA in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a T-cell mediated murine model of multiple sclerosis. The following results were obtained: (1) intraperitoneal injections of HupA significantly attenuate the neurological severity of EAE in mice. (2) HupA decreases the accumulation of inflammatory cells, autoimmune-related demyelination and axonal injury in the spinal cords of EAE mice. (3) HupA down-regulates mRNA levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines (IFN- and IL-17) and chemokines (MCP-1, RANTES, and TWEAK) while enhancing levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10) in the spinal cords of EAE mice. (4) HupA inhibits MOG(35-55) stimulation-induced T-cell proliferation and IFN- and IL-17 secretion in cultured splenocytes. (5) HupA inhibition of T-cell proliferation is reversed by the nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptor antagonist mecamylamine. We conclude that HupA can ameliorate EAE by suppressing autoimmune responses, inflammatory reactions, subsequent demyelination and axonal injury in the spinal cord. Therefore, HupA may have a potential therapeutic value for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and as a neuroimmunomodulatory drug to control human CNS pathology.
Distinct localization of T cell Agrin during antigen presentation--evidence for the expression of Agrin receptor(s) in antigen-presenting cells.	Agrin is over-expressed by activated and autoimmune T cells, and synergizes with the T cell receptor (TCR) to augment cell activation. In the present study, we show that Agrin accumulates to distinct areas of the plasma membrane and that cell activation causes its redistribution. During antigen presentation, Agrin primarily accumulates to the periphery of the mature immunological synapse, mostly in lamellipodia-like protrusions that wrap around the antigen-presenting cell and, conversely, anti-Agrin sera induced a significant redistribution of TCR at the plasma membrane. We also provide evidence for the expression of Agrin receptors in peripheral blood monocytes, dendritic cells and a fraction of B cells. Interestingly, interferon- treatment, which induces the expression of Agrin in T cells, also augmented Agrin binding to monocytes. Stimulation of monocytes with recombinant Agrin induced the clustering of surface receptors, including major histocompatibility complex class II, activation of intracellular signalling cascades, as well as enhanced dsRNA-induced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-. Collectively, these results confirm the location of Agrin at the immunological synapse between T cells and antigen-presenting cells and justify further characterization of its receptors in the immune system.
Intracellular IL-10 detection in T cells by flowcytometry: the use of protein transport inhibitors revisited.	In the past two decades, interleukin-10 (IL-10) has gained much attention as an important regulatory cytokine involved in self-tolerance. Functional assessment of IL-10 producing immune cells is traditionally done by stimulation and measurement of cytokine production by flowcytometry. Thereby a protein transport inhibitor like monensin is used to accumulate the cytokine of interest intracellularly. In this study we elaborated on the monensin effect on cytokine detection and focused on IL-10 detection in human T cells. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 32 study subjects were isolated and stimulated with PMA/ionomycin, in the absence and presence of monensin, and stained intracellularly for IFN-, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-17A. Our results re-established that detection of IFN-+ and IL-4+ T cells benefited from the presence of monensin during stimulation. However, stimulation in the presence of monensin yielded lower proportions of IL-10+ T cells (0.45% (0.28-0.80) versus 0.80% (0.50-1.50) of CD4+ T cells, p<0.01), although monensin addition did result in an increased MFI (2431 (1273-4959) versus 1928 (1147-3760), p<0.01). Detectable fractions of IL-17A+ CD4+ T cells were not affected by monensin. A shorter incubation time, but not lower monensin concentrations, was effective in improving the detection of IL-10+ T cells. We found a strong correlation between the fraction of IL-10+ CD4+ T cells in the presence and absence of monensin (R=0.80 p<0.01). Next to this, also the detection of IL-10+ NK-T cells and IL-10+ monocytes, but not IL-10+ B cells, is impaired in the presence of monensin. This study shows that the effect of monensin on cytokine accumulation is time and cytokine dependent. Due to the use of monensin, previous research may have underestimated the number of IL-10+ leukocytes or may even have not been able to detect them at all. It is important to consider this for future research or when interpreting historical IL-10 data.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II regulates IL-10 production by human T lymphocytes: a distinct target in the calcium dependent pathway.	Calcium (Ca2+) plays an essential role in lymphocyte activation and differentiation by affecting signaling pathways leading to cytokine production. Among the enzymes responding to calcium increase, Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has been involved in anergy with a still poorly characterized role. IL-10 produced by different T lymphocyte subpopulations is critical mediator of tolerance. We tested the hypothesis that CaMKII may be involved in IL-10 production. We report that CaMKII upregulates IL-10 production by primary human T lymphocytes stimulated through the antigen receptor or bypassing that. Overexpression of constitutively active mutant forms of Calcineurin or CaMKII specifically increase IL-10 protein product and IL-10 mRNA accumulation in T lymphocytes. By cotransfecting constitutively active CaMKII with luciferase reporter plasmids carrying specific fragments or the whole IL-10 promoter, we show that CaMKII specifically activates IL-10 promoter activity, whereas it inhibits IL-2 and IL-4 promoter. This effect is mediated by the first 500 bp fragment, which contains binding sites for Myocyte Enhancer Factor-2 (MEF2). A constitutively active mutant of CaMKII activated a luciferase reporter plasmid under the control of MEF2, when cotransfected in T lymphocytes stimulated by Ionomycin and PMA, whereas its inhibitor KN-62 inhibited MEF2 binding in cell lysates of the same cells. Moreover, overexpression of MEF2 enhanced by 2.5-fold IL-10 promoter activity. Our data for the first time suggest a distinct role of CaMKII in the induction of anergy in T lymphocytes, by differential regulation of IL-10 and IL-2 gene transcription suggest MEF2 as a molecular target which can integrate different calcium signals.
Pharmacophore-based small molecule CXCR4 ligands.	Low molecular weight CXCR4 ligands were developed based on the peptide T140, which has previously been identified as a potent CXCR4 antagonist. Some compounds with naphthyl, fluorobenzyl and pyridyl moieties as pharmacophore groups in the molecule showed significant CXCR4-binding activity and anti-HIV activity. Structure-activity relationships were studied and characteristics of each of these three moieties necessary for CXCR4 binding were defined. In this way, CXCR4 ligands with two types of recognition modes for CXCR4 have been found.
Dietary flaxseed oil reduces adipocyte size, adipose monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels and T-cell infiltration in obese, insulin-resistant rats.	Adipocyte dysfunction is characterized by an increase in adipocyte size and changes to their adipokine profiles. Immune cell infiltration into adipose tissue is thought to contribute to the metabolic complications of obesity, with local and systemic consequences for the inflammatory status of the obese individual. Dietary interventions with omega-3 fatty acids from marine sources have been successful at reducing inflammation. The aim of this study was to determine whether flaxseed oil containing the plant-based omega-3 fatty acid -linolenic acid (ALA) is an effective modulator of inflammation and adipocyte dysfunction.
21 Days head-down bed rest induces weakening of cell-mediated immunity - Some spaceflight findings confirmed in a ground-based analog.	Several studies indicate a weakening of cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and reactivation of latent herpes viruses during spaceflight. We tested the hypothesis that head-down bed rest (HDBR), a ground-based analog of spaceflight, mimics the impact of microgravity on human immunity. Seven healthy young males underwent two periods of 3 weeks HDBR in the test facility of the German Aerospace Center. As a nutritional countermeasure aimed against bone demineralisation, 90 mmol potassium bicarbonate (KHCO(3)) was administered daily in a crossover design. Blood samples were drawn on five occasions. Whole blood was stimulated with antigen i.e. Candida albicans, purified protein derivative (PPD) tuberculin, tetanus toxoid and Cytomegalovirus (CMV) (CMV-QuantiFERON). Flow cytometric analysis included CD4(+)CD25(+)CD127(-)FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs),  T cells, B cells, NK cells and dendritic cells. In one of the two bed rest periods, we observed a significant decrease in production of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon- (IFN-) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) following phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation, with a rapid normalization being observed after HDBR. The cytokine levels showed a V-shaped pattern that led to a relativeTh2-shift in cytokine balance. Only three individuals responded to the specific T cell antigens without showing signs of an altered response during HDBR, nor did we observe reactivation of CMV or Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Of unknown significance, dietary supplementation with KHCO(3) counteracted the decrease in IL-2 levels during HDBR, while there was no impact on other immunological parameters. We conclude that discrete alterations in CMI may be induced by HDBR in selected individuals.
Resistance to asbestos-induced apoptosis with continuous exposure to crocidolite on a human T cell.	We have been investigating the immunological effects of asbestos. The establishment of a low-dose and continuously exposed human T cell line, HTLV-1 immortalized MT-2, to chrysotile (CB) revealed reduction of CXCR3 chemokine receptor and production of IFN- that caused a decline of tumor immunity. These effects were coupled with upregulation of IL-10, TGF-, and BCL-2 in asbestos-exposed patients. To observe the immunological effects of crocidolite (CR) on human T cells, a trial to establish a low-dose and continuously exposed model was conducted and compared with a previously reported CB-exposed model (MT-2CB). Transient exposure of MT-2 original cells to CB or CR induced a similar level of apoptosis and growth inhibition. The establishment of a continuously exposed subline to CR (MT-2CR) revealed resistance against CR-induced apoptosis and upregulation of the BCL-2/BAX ratio similar to that recorded for MT-2CB. Both sublines showed reduced production of IFN-, TNF-, and IL-6 with increased IL-10. cDNA microarray with network/pathway analyses focusing on transcription factors revealed that many similar factors related to cell proliferation were involved following continuous exposure to asbestos in both MT-2CB and MT-2CR. These results indicate that both CB and CR fibers affect human T cells with similar degrees even though the carcinogenic activity of these substances differs due to their chemical and physical forms. Trials to identify early detection markers for asbestos exposure or the occurrence of asbestos-inducing malignancies using these findings may lead to the development of clinical tools for asbestos-related diseases and chemoprevention that modifies the reduced tumor immunity.
Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein 2A exacerbates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and enhances antigen presentation function.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory, autoimmune disease of the central nervous system. The cause of MS is still unknown but epidemiological and immunological studies have implicated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), which infects B cells, as a possible etiological agent involved in disease. Of particular interest is EBV latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) because previous studies have demonstrated that LMP2A enhances the expansion and differentiation of B cells upon antigen stimulation, revealing a potential contribution of this protein in autoimmunity. Since B cells are thought to contribute to MS, we examined the role of LMP2A in the animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In this model, transgenic mice in which B cells express LMP2A show increased severity and incidence of disease. This difference was not due to lymphocyte recruitment into the CNS or differences in T cell activation, rather, we show that LMP2A enhances antigen presentation function.
Interferon- improves phosphoantigen-induced V9V2 T-cells interferon- production during chronic HCV infection.	In chronic HCV infection, treatment failure and defective host immune response highly demand improved therapy strategies. V9V2 T-cells may inhibit HCV replication in vitro through IFN- release after Phosphoantigen (PhAg) stimulation. The aim of our work was to analyze V9V2 T-cell functionality during chronic HCV infection, studying the role of IFN- on their function capability. IFN- production by V9V2 T-cells was analyzed in vitro in 24 HCV-infected patients and 35 healthy donors (HD) after PhAg stimulation with or without IFN-. The effect of in vivo PhAg/IFN- administration on plasma IFN- levels was analyzed in M. fascicularis monkeys. A quantitative analysis of IFN- mRNA level and stability in V9V2 T-cells was also evaluated. During chronic HCV infection, V9V2 T-cells showed an effector/activated phenotype and were significantly impaired in IFN- production. Interestingly, IFN- was able to improve their IFN- response to PhAg both in vitro in HD and HCV-infected patients, and in vivo in Macaca fascicularis primates. Finally, IFN- increased IFN--mRNA transcription and stability in PhAg-activated V9V2 T-cells. Altogether our results show a functional impairment of V9V2 T-cells during chronic HCV infection that can be partially restored by using IFN-. A study aimed to evaluate the antiviral impact of PhAg/IFN- combination may provide new insight in designing possible combined strategies to improve HCV infection treatment outcome.
Can mucosal adjuvants contribute to the induction of immunological memory induced via unconjugated T-cell-independent antigens?	Vaccination remains the most cost-effective method for preventing infectious diseases. Key to vaccine design is the development of immunological memory, which is an essential property of the adaptive immune system. Bacterial polysaccharide conjugate vaccines are the gold standard currently used to confer protection of the host by inducing humoral immune responses against T-cell-independent antigens. Conjugate vaccines are effective, but we propose that local mucosal immune responses are likely to also play an important role in inducing immunity, and they have been less explored than systemic and adaptive immune responses. Adjuvants have been used to improve the immune response to vaccine antigens, however, no mucosal adjuvant has been licensed for human use. Here we describe the recent progress in the use of mucosal adjuvants to achieve significant immune responses against T-cell-independent antigens. We also introduce the idea that studying the mechanisms that induce cell sub-populations with strong immunological memory may facilitate the design of novel vaccine formulations, in particular in cases of B-cell unresponsiveness to thymus-independent stimuli.
An extract of Agaricus blazei Murill administered orally promotes immune responses in murine leukemia BALB/c mice in vivo.	The edible mushroom (fungus) Agaricus blazei Murill (ABM) is a health food in many countries. Importantly, it has been shown to have antitumor and immune effects. There is no available information on ABM-affected immune responses in leukemia mice in vivo. Experimental Design. In this study, the authors investigated the immunopotentiating activities of boiled water-soluble extracts from desiccated ABM in WEHI-3 leukemia mice. The major characteristic of WEHI-3 leukemia mice are enlarged spleens and livers after intraperitoneal injection with murine leukemia WEHI-3 cells. Isolated T cells from spleens of ABM-treated mice resulted in increased T-cell proliferation compared with the untreated control with concanavalin A stimulation.
- and -tocotrienols induce classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes in human T lymphoblastic leukemic cells.	Tocotrienols are isomers of the vitamin E family, which have been reported to exert cytotoxic effects in various cancer cells. Although there have been some reports on the effects of tocotrienols in leukemic cells, ultrastructural evidence of tocotrienol-induced apoptotic cell death in leukemic cells is lacking. The present study investigated the effects of three isomers of tocotrienols (alpha, delta, and gamma) on a human T lymphoblastic leukemic cell line (CEM-SS). Cell viability assays showed that all three isomers had cytotoxic effects (p < 0.05) on CEM-SS cells with delta-tocotrienol being the most potent. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the cytotoxic effects by delta- and gamma-tocotrienols were through the induction of an apoptotic pathway as demonstrated by the classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes characterized by peripheral nuclear chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. These findings were confirmed biochemically by the demonstration of phosphatidylserine externalization via flow cytometry analysis. This is the first study showing classical ultrastructural apoptotic changes induced by delta- and gamma-tocotrienols in human T lymphoblastic leukemic cells.
Suppression of T cell functions by hydroxamic acid-based histone deacetylase inhibitors.	Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) have recently been shown to suppress inflammatory responses at much lower concentrations than that the concentrations that produce an antitumor effect. In the current study, the inhibitory activity of T cell functions by three different HDACis was compared, and the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory activity were demonstrated. Trichostatin-A (TSA) and scriptaid (ST) had potent inhibitory effects on the proliferation of T cells. TSA suppressed the synthesis of the T cell-activating cytokine, interleukin (IL)-2, and the T cell-derived cytokines, interferon (IFN)-, IL-4, and IL-13. In addition, TSA induced inhibition of cell cycle progression and IL-2 receptor expression. On the whole, TSA had a stronger effect on T cell functions than other HDACis. Similarly, a longer duration of hyperacetylation was observed in the cells that had been exposed to TSA. Thus, the inhibition of histone deacetylation appears to be related to the inhibitory effect of TSA. These results are expected to serve as a guide for future studies on the ability of HDACis to inhibit acute and chronic inflammatory diseases provoked by T cells.
Effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor mobilization on the expression patterns, clonality and signal transduction of TRAV and TRBV repertoire.	The immune modulatory effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) on T cells resulted in an unexpected low incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (allo-PBSCT). Recently, (+) T cells are identified as the primary effector cells for GVHD. However, whether G-CSF could influence the repertoire of (+) T cells (TRAV and TRBV repertoire) and CD3 genes remains unclear. To further characterize this feature, we investigated the effect of G-CSF mobilization on the T cell receptors (TCR) of (+) T cells (TRAV and TRBV repertoire) and CD3 genes, as well as the association between the changes of TCR repertoire and GVHD in patients undergoing G-CSF mobilized allo-PBSCT. We found that G-CSF mobilization had an effect on the expression patterns, clonality and signal transduction of TRAV and TRBV repertoire. This alteration might play a role in mediating GVHD in G-CSF mobilized allo-PBSCT.
Immunoregulatory T cells in multiple sclerosis and the effect of interferon beta and glatiramer acetate treatment on T cell subpopulations.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease characterized by demyelination and chronic inflammation of the central nervous system (CNS). Many of the immune cells including T and B cells seem to be involved in disease pathogenesis by inducing or controlling the immune responses in the nervous system of MS patients. The objective of this study was to evaluate the differences in subpopulations of T cells between MS patients and healthy controls and the effects of interferon beta (INF-beta) and glatiramer acetate (GA) treatment on T cell subpopulations.
IL-17-induced Act1-mediated signaling is critical for cuprizone-induced demyelination.	Cuprizone inhibits mitochondrial function and induces demyelination in the corpus callosum, which resembles pattern III lesions in multiple sclerosis patients. However, the molecular and cellular mechanism by which cuprizone induces demyelination remains unclear. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) secreted by T helper 17 cells and T cells are essential in the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In this study, we examined the importance of IL-17 signaling in cuprizone-induced demyelination. We found that mice deficient in IL-17A, IL-17 receptor C (IL-17RC), and adaptor protein Act1 (of IL-17R) all had reduced demyelination accompanied by lessened microglial and polydendrocyte cellular reactivity compared with that in wild-type mice in response to cuprizone feeding, demonstrating the essential role of IL-17-induced Act1-mediated signaling in cuprizone-induced demyelination. Importantly, specific deletion of Act1 in astrocytes reduced the severity of tissue injury in this model, indicating the critical role of CNS resident cells in the pathogenesis of cuprizone-induced demyelination. In cuprizone-fed mice, IL-17 was produced by CNS CD3(+) T cells, suggesting a source of IL-17 in CNS upon cuprizone treatment.
Optimizing outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis patients with inadequate responses to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs.	Conventional DMARDs such as MTX are the mainstay of treatment for patients with RA. However, failure to achieve adequate disease control in many patients, even with combination therapy, has spurred the development of agents that target various immune mediators involved in the disease process. In the past decade, biologic agents have proved viable as alternative or add-on therapy to DMARDs in patients whose disease is inadequately controlled. Well-controlled clinical trials have evaluated the effects of these agents not only on disease activity, but also on inhibition of structural change and improvement in physical function. This article reviews phase 3 clinical trial results on biologic agents that inhibit T- and B-cell activation (abatacept and rituximab, respectively), inflammatory cytokines such as TNF- (adalimumab, etanercept, infliximab, golimumab and certolizumab) and IL-6 (tocilizumab). Although data comparing the efficacy of the various biologic agents are limited, the availability of biologic therapies with differing mechanisms of action expands therapeutic options for patients whose disease is inadequately controlled with DMARDs and allows for greater individualization of treatment.
p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 pathway signaling regulates expression of inhibitory molecules in T cells activated by HIV-1-exposed dendritic cells.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection enhances the expression of inhibitory molecules on T cells, leading to T-cell impairment. The signaling pathways underlying the regulation of inhibitory molecules and subsequent onset of T-cell impairment remain elusive. We showed that both autologous and allogeneic T cells exposed to HIV-pulsed dendritic cells (DCs) upregulated cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen (CTLA-4), tumor-necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG3), T-cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (TIM-3), CD160 and certain suppression-associated transcription factors, such as B-lymphocyte induced maturation protein-1 (BLIMP-1), deltex homolog 1 protein (DTX1) and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), leading to T-cell suppression. This induction was regulated by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (P38MAPK/STAT3) pathways, because their blockade significantly abrogated expression of all the inhibitory molecules studied and a subsequent recovery in T-cell proliferation. Neither interleukin-6 (IL-6) nor IL-10 nor growth factors known to activate STAT3 signaling events were responsible for STAT3 activation. Involvement of the P38MAPK/STAT3 pathways was evident because these proteins had a higher level of phosphorylation in the HIV-1-primed cells. Furthermore, blockade of viral CD4 binding and fusion significantly reduced the negative effects DCs imposed on primed T cells. In conclusion, HIV-1 interaction with DCs modulated their functionality, causing them to trigger the activation of the P38MAPK/STAT3 pathway in T cells, which was responsible for the upregulation of inhibitory molecules.
CCR5 antagonism impacts vaccination response and immune profile in HIV-1 infection.	Maraviroc (MVC) is the first licensed antiretroviral therapeutic agent to target a host cell surface molecule, and successful HIV-1 entry blockade by this C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5)-antagonist potentiates immunomodulation. We hypothesized that MVC intensification impacts immunization responses, T-cell phenotype, function and delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) in HIV-1(+) subjects. A 24-wk, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study of the addition of MVC to suppressive antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1(+) persons was performed. Subjects received DTH tests, intramuscular tetanus, meningococcal and oral cholera immunizations. Antibody titers, T-cell function and phenotype were assessed. Of 157 patients referred, 47 were randomized 1:1; MVC:placebo. MVC enhanced meningococcal neo-immunization, blunted cholera response and expedited lymphoproliferation to tetanus boost, without affecting recall humoral response. Anti-HIV-1 group-specific antigen (Gag) and tetanus toxoid (TTox) function improved significantly, HIV-1-associated CD8 T-cell skewing normalized, and the percentage of late-stage and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expressing CD4 T-cells increased. Activated CD4(+) CD38(+) human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR(+) T-cells declined, and costimulation shifted to coinhibition. DTH was unchanged. Maraviroc intensification, through antagonism of the cell surface molecule CCR5, favorably influences immune profiles of HIV-1(+) patients, supporting its immunomodulatory use in HIV-1 infection and potentially in other immunologically relevant settings.
Regulation of mu opioid receptor expression in developing T cells.	We have previously reported that functionally active -opioid receptors (MOR) are constitutively expressed at relatively low levels by developing T cells in the thymus. However, very little is known about the regulation of MOR expression by immature T cells. In this report, we first attempted to determine the effect of T cell receptor-induced T cell activation on the expression of MOR. We activated T cells with either the combination of anti-CD3 and CD28, or with superantigen, and observed a substantial increase in MOR transcript expression. We also chose to examine the effect of cytokine-mediated T cell activation on the expression of this opioid receptor. We selected certain cytokines that play a role in T cell development and are known to be present at functional levels in the thymus gland. Our results show that interferon  (IFN), IL-1, and IL-2, and in particular transforming growth factor- (TGF), all induced significant increases in MOR transcript expression. On the other hand, both TNF and IL-7 exhibited much weaker effects on MOR expression. These results show that MOR expression by developing T cells is strongly regulated by several cytokines involved in T cell development in the thymus gland.
Antitumor T-cell responses contribute to the effects of dasatinib on c-KIT mutant murine mastocytoma and are potentiated by anti-OX40.	Targeted and immune-based therapies are thought to eradicate cancer cells by different mechanisms, and these approaches could possibly complement each other when used in combination. In this study, we report that the in vivo antitumor effects of the c-KIT inhibitor, dasatinib, on the c-KIT mutant P815 mastocytoma tumor were substantially dependent on T cell-mediated immunity. We found that dasatinib treatment significantly decreased levels of Tregs while specifically enhancing tumor antigen-specific T-cell responses. We sought to further enhance this therapy with the addition of anti-OX40 antibody, which is known to provide a potent costimulatory signal to T cells. The combination of dasatinib and anti-OX40 antibody resulted in substantially better therapeutic efficacy compared with either drug alone, and this was associated with enhanced accumulation of tumor antigen-specific T cells in the tumor microenvironment. Furthermore, the combination regimen inhibited the function of Tregs and also resulted in significantly up-regulated expression of the IFN--induced chemokines CXCL9, 10, and 11 in the tumor microenvironment, which provides a feasible mechanism for the enhanced intratumoral CTL infiltration. These studies delineate a strategy by which targeted therapy and immunotherapy may be combined to achieve superior antitumor responses in cancer patients.
Nitric oxide and glucocorticoids synergize in inducing apoptosis of CD48 thymocytes: implications for 'Death by Neglect' and T-cell function.	Thymic epithelial cells (TECs) play a central role in T-cell development by presenting self-antigens on MHC proteins. Double-positive (DP) thymocytes that fail to interact with TEC via their TCR die by 'Death by Neglect'. We demonstrated a role for TEC-derived glucocorticoids (GCs) in this process. In a previous study, we used an in vitro system recapitulating Death by Neglect, to demonstrate the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in this process. In this study, we show that NO synergizes with GCs to induce apoptosis of DP thymocytes in a fetal thymic organ culture. Also, DP thymocytes from iNOS/ mice are less sensitive to GC-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, the number of DP thymocytes in iNOS/ mice is higher than in wild-type mice, suggesting a role for NO in Death by Neglect. This phenomenon effects T-cell function profoundly: iNOS/ T cells do not respond to TCR-mediated activation signals, measured by up-regulation of CD69, IL-2R and IFN secretion. This failure to activate is a result of TCR incompetence because iNO/ T cells respond to TCR-independent stimuli (phorbol myristate acetate and calcium ionophore). This study suggests that NO and GCs synergize to execute TEC-induced death of DP thymocytes.
Recombinant human interleukin-7 (CYT107) promotes T-cell recovery after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	Delays in immune recovery after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) are associated with increased risks of infection and relapse. IL-7 has a central role in T-cell development and survival and enhances immune recovery in murine models of allo-HSCT. We performed a phase 1 trial of r-hIL-7 (CYT107) in recipients of T-cell depleted allo-HSCTs. Twelve patients were treated with escalating doses of r-hIL-7 administered weekly for 3 weeks. The study drug was well tolerated with only one patient developing acute skin GVHD. At baseline, patients were profoundly lymphopenic. CYT107 induced a doubling in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. The main effect of IL-7 was an expansion of effector memory T cells, the predominant subset identified in our patients. There was no significant effect on CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) T cells, NK, or B cells. Importantly, we not only saw quantitative increases in T cells after a short course of IL-7 but also demonstrated an increase in functional T cells, including viral-specific T cells that recognize CMV. Enhanced TCR diversity was also observed after treatment. Our results indicate that r-hIL-7 can enhance immune recovery after a T cell-depleted allo-HSCT without causing significant GVHD or other serious toxicity (www.clinicaltrials.gov; NCT00684008).
Mesenchymal stem cells regulate the proliferation of T cells via the growth-related oncogene/CXC chemokine receptor, CXCR2.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have known to induce immunosuppressive properties by preventing T cell proliferation. However, it is remains unclear how MSCs inhibit T cell proliferation. To identify the factor that inhibits T cell proliferation, we conducted a cytokine array analysis of culture medium from a co-culture of MSCs and T cells and found that the chemokines, CXCL1, 2 and 3, were induced in T cells. MSCs also induced the expression of the CXCR2 receptor on T cell surface. Particularly, CXCL3 inhibited proliferation and increased apoptosis in T cells, which were reversed by CXCR2 inhibitor treatment. Moreover, CXCL3 decreased JAK2, STAT3, and AKT phosphorylation and these responses were also abolished by CXCR2 inhibitor treatment. MSCs suppressed the proliferation of T cells into tumor tissue. Collectively, these data demonstrate that MSCs directly regulate T cell proliferation by induction of CXCL3 chemokine and its receptor, CXCR2 on the surface in T cells.
Selective inhibitors of nuclear export show that CRM1/XPO1 is a target in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	The nuclear export protein XPO1 is overexpressed in cancer, leading to the cytoplasmic mislocalization of multiple tumor suppressor proteins. Existing XPO1-targeting agents lack selectivity and have been associated with significant toxicity. Small molecule selective inhibitors of nuclear export (SINEs) were designed that specifically inhibit XPO1. Genetic experiments and X-ray structures demonstrate that SINE covalently bind to a cysteine residue in the cargo-binding groove of XPO1, thereby inhibiting nuclear export of cargo proteins. The clinical relevance of SINEs was explored in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a disease associated with recurrent XPO1 mutations. Evidence is presented that SINEs can restore normal regulation to the majority of the dysregulated pathways in CLL both in vitro and in vivo and induce apoptosis of CLL cells with a favorable therapeutic index, with enhanced killing of genomically high-risk CLL cells that are typically unresponsive to traditional therapies. More importantly, SINE slows disease progression, and improves overall survival in the E-TCL1-SCID mouse model of CLL with minimal weight loss or other toxicities. Together, these findings demonstrate that XPO1 is a valid target in CLL with minimal effects on normal cells and provide a basis for the development of SINEs in CLL and related hematologic malignancies.
Distinct immunomodulatory and migratory mechanisms underpin the therapeutic potential of human mesenchymal stem cells in autoimmune demyelination.	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are efficacious in a variety of intractable diseases. While bone marrow (BM)-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) have been widely investigated, MSCs from other tissue sources have also been shown to be effective in several autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. In the present study, we simultaneously assessed the therapeutic efficacy of human BM-MSCs, as well as MSCs isolated from adipose tissue (Ad-MSCs) and umbilical cord Wharton's jelly (UC-MSCs), in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). Prior to in vivo experiments, we characterized the phenotype and function of all three MSC types. We show that BM-MSCs were more efficient at suppressing the in vitro proliferation of mitogen or antigen-stimulated T-cell responses compared to Ad-MSCs and UC-MSCs. Notably BM-MSCs induced the differential expression of cytokines from normal and stimulated T-cells. Paradoxically, intravenous transplantation of BM-MSCs into C57Bl/6 mice with chronic progressive EAE had a negligible effect on the disease course, even when multiple MSC injections were administered over a number of time points. In contrast, Ad-MSCs had the most significant impact on clinical and pathological disease outcomes in chronic progressive and relapsing-remitting EAE models. In vivo tracking studies revealed that Ad-MSCs were able to migrate to the central nervous system (CNS), a property that most likely correlated with their broader expression of homing molecules, while BM-MSCs were not detected in this anatomic region. Collectively, this comparative investigation demonstrates that transplanted Ad-MSCs play a significant role in tissue repair processes by virtue of their ability to suppress inflammation coupled with their enhanced ability to home to the injured CNS. Given the access and relatively ease for harvesting adipose tissue, these data further implicate Ad-MSCs as a cell therapeutic that may be used to treat MS patients.
Metal allergens nickel and cobalt facilitate TLR4 homodimerization independently of MD2.	Development of contact allergy requires cooperation of adaptive and innate immunity. Ni(2+) stimulates innate immunity via TLR4/MD2, the bacterial LPS receptor. This likely involves receptor dimerization, but direct proof is pending and it is unclear if related haptens share this mechanism. We reveal Co(2+) as second metal stimulating TLR4 and confirm necessity of H456/H458 therein. Experiments with a new TLR4 dimerization mutant established dimerization as a mechanism of metal- and LPS-induced TLR4 activation. Yet, in interaction studies only LPS- but not metal-induced dimerization required MD2. Consistently, soluble TLR4 expressed without MD2 inhibited metal- but not LPS-induced responses, opening new therapeutic perspectives.
Combination of glycolysis inhibition with chemotherapy results in an antitumor immune response.	Most DNA-damaging agents are weak inducers of an anticancer immune response. Increased glycolysis is one of the best-described hallmarks of tumor cells; therefore, we investigated the impact of glycolysis inhibition, using 2-deoxyglucose (2DG), in combination with cytotoxic agents on the induction of immunogenic cell death. We demonstrated that 2DG synergized with etoposide-induced cytotoxicity and significantly increased the life span of immunocompetent mice but not immunodeficient mice. We then established that only cotreated cells induced an efficient tumor-specific T-cell activation ex vivo and that tumor antigen-specific T cells could only be isolated from cotreated animals. In addition, only when mice were immunized with cotreated dead tumor cells could they be protected (vaccinated) from a subsequent challenge using the same tumor in viable form. Finally, we demonstrated that this effect was at least partially mediated through ERp57/calreticulin exposure on the plasma membrane. These data identify that the targeting of glycolysis can convert conventional tolerogenic cancer cell death stimuli into immunogenic ones, thus creating new strategies for immunogenic chemotherapy.
Impairment of JCV-specific T-cell response by corticotherapy: effect on PML-IRIS management?	To investigate the impact of corticosteroids (CS) on the viral-specific T-cell response, in particular the JC virus (JCV)-specific one, in an attempt to determine the optimal timing of CS in the management of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy-immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (PML-IRIS).
Pan-Bcl-2 inhibitor AT-101 enhances tumor cell killing by EGFR targeted T cells.	Pancreatic cancer is a deadly disease and has the worst prognosis among almost all cancers and is in dire need of new and improved therapeutic strategies. Conditioning of tumor cells with chemotherapeutic drug has been shown to enhance the anti-tumor effects of cancer vaccines and adoptive cell therapy. In this study, we investigated the immunomodulatory effects of pan-Bcl-2 inhibitor AT-101 on pancreatic cancer (PC) cell cytotoxicity by activated T cells (ATC). The effects of AT-101 on cytotoxicity, early apoptosis, and Granzyme B (GrzB) and IFN- signaling pathways were evaluated during EGFR bispecific antibody armed ATC (aATC)-mediated killing of L3.6pl and MiaPaCa-2 PC cells pre-sensitized with AT-101. We found that pretreatment of tumor cells with AT-101 enhanced susceptibility of L3.6pl and MiaPaCa-2 tumor cells to ATC and aATC-mediated cytotoxicity, which was in part mediated via enhanced release of cytolytic granule GrzB from ATC and aATC. AT-101-sensitized L3.6pl cells showed up-regulation of IFN--mediated induction in the phosphorylation of Ser(727)-Stat1 (pS(727)-Stat1), and IFN- induced dephosphorylation of phospho-Tyr(705)-Stat3 (pY(705)-Stat3). Priming (conditioning) of PC cells with AT-101 can significantly enhance the anti-tumor activity of EGFRBi armed ATC through increased IFN- induced activation of pS(727)-Stat1 and inhibition of pY(705)-Stat3 phosphorylation, and resulting in increased ratio of pro-apoptotic to anti-apoptotic proteins. Our results verify enhanced cytotoxicity after a novel chemotherapy conditioning strategy against PC that warrants further in vivo and clinical investigations.
Effect of glycophosphopeptide on the lymphocytes and IgA of Olympic platform divers.	The aim of this paper was to evaluate the effect of a treatment with glycophosphopeptide on Olympic high platform divers during training and competition by measuring lymphocytes and cortisol in peripheral blood, and secretory immunoglobin A in saliva (sIgA).
Immunobiology. Combined targeted and immunotherapy: the future of personalized medicine.	In this issue of Blood, Yang et al have demonstrated that the therapeutic activity of a targeted therapy, the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) dasatinib, unexpectedly depends on antitumor T-cell responses that are strongly potentiated by immunostimulation (agonist anti-OX40).
PI3K/Akt/mTOR, a pathway less recognized for staphylococcal superantigen-induced toxicity.	Immunostimulating staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) and related superantigenic toxins cause diseases in humans and laboratory animals by activating cells of the immune system. These toxins bind directly to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules on antigen-presenting cells and specific V&#946; regions of T-cell receptors (TCR), resulting in hyperactivation of both T lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages. Activated host cells produce excessive amounts of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, especially tumor necrosis factor &#945;, interleukin 1 (IL-1), IL-2, interferon &#947; (IFN&#947;), and macrophage chemoattractant protein 1 causing clinical symptoms of fever, hypotension, and shock. The well-explored signal transduction pathways for SEB-induced toxicity downstream from TCR/MHC ligation and interaction of cell surface co-stimulatory molecules include the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and cytokine receptor signaling, culminating in NF&#954;B activation. Independently, IL-2, IFN&#947;, and chemokines from activated T cells signal via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), the serine/threonine kinases, Akt and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathways. This article reviews the signaling molecules induced by superantigens in the activation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways leading to staphylococcal superantigen-induced toxicity and updates potential therapeutics against superantigens.
Trials in type 1 diabetes: Antigen-specific therapies.	Type 1 diabetes (T1D) results from an aberrant immunological response against the insulin-producing beta cells in the islets of the pancreas. The ideal therapy would restore immune balance in a safe and lasting fashion, stopping the process of beta cell decay. The efficacy of immune suppressive agents such as cyclosporin underscores the notion that T1D can in principle be prevented, albeit at an unacceptable long-term safety risk. Immune modulatory drugs such as monoclonal anti-CD3 antibody, on the other hand, have recently had rather disappointing results in phase 3 trials, possibly due to inadequate dosing or choice of inappropriate endpoints. Therefore, it is argued that striking the right balance between safety and efficacy, together with careful trial design, will be paramount in preventing T1D. Here we outline the concept of antigen-specific tolerization as a strategy to safely induce long-term protection against T1D, focusing on available clinical trial data, key knowledge gaps and potential future directions. 
The in vitro treatment with vitamin D3 is ineffective on the expression of PKC isoenzymes, but decreases further the impaired production of IL-2 in the T lymphocytes of SLE patients.	The objective of the study was to investigate the possibility whether the in vitro treatment with vitamin D3 can restore the impaired expression of protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzymes and IL-2 production in the lymphocytes of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Purified T lymphocytes from 14 patients with SLE and 13 healthy controls were cultured for 48h in the presence and absence of 1 and 100nM doses of vitamin D3. The expressions of various PKC isoenzymes were tested by Western blot analysis, and the amounts of various cytokines were detected by ELISA in the culture supernatants. Neither the low (1nM) nor the high (100nM) doses of vitamin D3 (1,-25-dihydroxyvitamin) applied in vitro for 48h were able to restore the decreased expression of PKC isoenzymes in the T cells of SLE patients. However, 100nM of vitamin D3 significantly increased the release of IL-10, but suppressed the production of IL-2, IL-6, interferon  and TNF  in the culture supernatants of both groups. As the low production of IL-2 is one of the main pathologic features of SLE, we recommend to avoid the use of high doses of vitamin D3 for treatment of lupus patients with vitamin D3 deficiency. 
Fluoxetine reduces murine graft-versus-host disease by induction of T cell immunosuppression.	Serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are widely used drugs in the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. Although SRIs are generally regarded as safe drugs with relatively few side effects, literature suggests that high concentrations of SRIs may alter immune function. We investigated whether high-dose treatment with fluoxetine was able to suppress acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) in a MHC-matched, minor histocompatibility antigen mismatched murine bone marrow transplantation model. We found that high doses fluoxetine induce a significant reduction of clinical symptoms and increase survival of these animals. The amelioration of clinical GvHD was accompanied by a reduced expansion of alloreactive T cells. We further analyzed the direct in vitro effect of six SRIs on the viability and proliferation of human T cells and found an anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effect that was significantly larger in activated than in resting T cells. We discuss these results in the light of potential future exploration of SRIs as a novel class of T cell immunosuppressive drugs. 
B7-H4Ig inhibits mouse and human T-cell function and treats EAE via IL-10/Treg-dependent mechanisms.	We evaluated the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of action of both mouse and human B7-H4 Immunoglobulin fusion proteins (mB7-H4Ig; hB7-H4Ig) in treating EAE. The present data show that mB7-H4Ig both directly and indirectly (via increasing Treg function) inhibited CD4 T-cell proliferation and differentiation in both Th1- and Th17-cell promoting conditions while inducing production of IL-10. B7-H4Ig treatment effectively ameliorated progression of both relapsing (R-EAE) and chronic EAE correlating with decreased numbers of activated CD4 T-cells within the CNS and spleen, and a concurrent increase in number and function of Tregs. The functional requirement for Treg activation in treating EAE was demonstrated by a loss of therapeutic efficacy of hB7-H4Ig in R-EAE following inactivation of Treg function either by anti-CD25 treatment or blockade of IL-10. Significant to the eventual translation of this treatment into clinical practice, hB7-H4Ig similarly inhibited the in vitro differentiation of nave human CD4 T-cells in both Th1- and Th17-promoting conditions, while promoting the production of IL-10. B7-H4Ig thus regulates pro-inflammatory T-cell responses by a unique dual mechanism of action and demonstrates significant promise as a therapeutic for autoimmune diseases, including MS.
In vitro PFOS exposure on immune endpoints in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) and mice.	Previous studies in our lab have shown that perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) modulates immune function in mice and correlates with many immune parameters in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). In this study, bottlenose dolphin peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) and adult female B6C3F1 mouse splenocytes were exposed to environmentally relevant PFOS concentrations (0-5 g ml(-1)) in vitro; and natural killer (NK) cell activity and lymphocyte proliferation (T and B cell) were assessed using the parallelogram approach for risk assessment. The objectives were: to corroborate results from the correlative studies in bottlenose dolphins with in vitro PFOS exposures; to evaluate the sensitivity of the mouse model as compared with bottlenose dolphins; and to assess risk using the parallelogram approach. In mouse cells, NK cell activity was decreased at in vitro doses of 0.01, 0.5, 0.1, 0.5 and 1 g PFOS ml(-1) and increased at 5 g ml(-1). Additionally, B cell proliferation was not altered, but T cell proliferation was decreased at all in vitro PFOS exposures. In dolphin cells, NK cell activity and T cell proliferation were not altered by in vitro PFOS exposure, but B cell proliferation exhibited a positive association in relation to PFOS dose. Overall, the data indicates that: the in vitro exposures of bottlenose dolphin PBLs exhibited results similar to reported correlative fields studies; that mice were generally more sensitive (for these selected endpoints) than were dolphins; and that the parallelogram approach could be used two-thirds of the time to predict the effects in bottlenose dolphins.
Anti-CD3 clinical trials in type 1 diabetes mellitus.	Two humanized, anti-CD3 mAbs with reduced FcR binding, teplizumab and otelixizumab, have been evaluated in over 1500 subjects, ages 7-45, with new and recently diagnosed T1D with a range of intravenous doses (3-48mg) and regimens (6-14 days, single or repeat courses). In general, studies that used adequate dosing demonstrated improvement in stimulated C-peptide responses and reduced need for exogenous insulin for two years and even longer after diagnosis. Drug treatment causes a transient reduction in circulating T cells, but the available data suggest that the mechanism of action may involve induction of regulatory mechanisms. The adverse effects of anti-CD3 treatment are infusion-related and transient. The studies have identified significant differences in efficacy among patient groups suggesting that a key aspect for development of this immune therapy is identification of the demographic, metabolic, and immunologic features that distinguish subjects who are most likely to show beneficial clinical responses.
Potent immunomodulatory effects of the trifunctional antibody catumaxomab.	Catumaxomab (CatmAb), a trifunctional bispecific antibody directed against the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) and the T-cell antigen CD3, is approved as intraperitoneal therapy for the treatment of malignant ascites in patients with EpCAM-positive carcinomas. The immunomonitoring results of a phase II/III study using CatmAb revealed a tumoricidal effect associated with reduced VEGF levels, CD69-expressing T cells, and the release of T-helper cell (TH)-1 cytokines. We comprehensively dissected the immunomodulatory effects of the CatmAb on the major subsets of malignant ascites-infiltrating leukocytes and the molecular fingerprint of tumor cell death. Herein we show that in the presence of EpCAM-positive tumor targets, CatmAb markedly enhanced T-cell activation [CD69, CD107A (LAMP1), HLA-DR and PD-1(PDCD1) expression] and stimulated inflammatory CD4(+) TH1 and CD8(+) TH1 to release IFN- but failed to trigger TH17 cells. Engagement of CD16-expressing cells caused upregulation of TRAIL (TNFSF10) and costimulatory CD40 and CD80 molecules. CatmAb promoted tumor cell death associated with ATP release and strongly synergized with oxaliplatin for the exposure of the three hallmarks of immunogenic cell death (calreticulin, HMGB1, and ATP). These findings warrant validation as potential biomarkers of efficacy of CatmAb.
Mechanism of action for NNZ-2566 anti-inflammatory effects following PBBI involves upregulation of immunomodulator ATF3.	The tripeptide glycine-proline-glutamate analogue NNZ-2566 (Neuren Pharmaceuticals) demonstrates neuroprotective efficacy in models of traumatic brain injury. In penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI), it significantly decreases injury-induced upregulation of inflammatory cytokines including TNF-, IFN-, and IL-6. However, the mechanism by which NNZ-2566 acts has yet to be determined. The activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3) is known to repress expression of these inflammatory cytokines and was increased at the mRNA and protein level 24-h post-PBBI. This study investigated whether 12 h of NNZ-2566 treatment following PBBI alters atf3 expression. PBBI alone significantly increased atf3 mRNA levels by 13-fold at 12 h and these levels were increased by an additional fourfold with NNZ-2566 treatment. To confirm that changes in mRNA translated to changes in protein expression, ATF3 expression levels were determined in vivo in microglia/macrophages, T cells, natural killer cells (NKCs), astrocytes, and neurons. PBBI alone significantly increased ATF3 in microglia/macrophages (820%), NKCs (58%), and astrocytes (51%), but decreased levels in T cells (48%). NNZ-2566 treatment further increased ATF3 protein expression in microglia/macrophages (102%), NKCs (308%), and astrocytes (13%), while reversing ATF3 decreases in T cells. Finally, PBBI increased ATF3 levels by 55% in neurons and NNZ-2566 treatment further increased these levels an additional 33%. Since increased ATF3 may be an innate protective mechanism to limit inflammation following injury, these results demonstrating that the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective drug NNZ-2566 increase both mRNA and protein levels of ATF3 in multiple cell types provide a cellular mechanism for NNZ-2566 modulation of neuroinflammation following PBBI.
HTLV-1 Tax oncoprotein stimulates ROS production and apoptosis in T cells by interacting with USP10.	Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the etiological agent of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), and the viral oncoprotein Tax plays key roles in the immortalization of human T cells, lifelong persistent infection, and leukemogenesis. We herein identify the ubiquitin-specific protease 10 (USP10) as a Tax-interactor in HTLV-1-infected T cells. USP10 is an antistress factor against various environmental stresses, including viral infections and oxidative stress. On exposure to arsenic, an oxidative stress inducer, USP10 is recruited into stress granules (SGs), and USP10-containing SGs reduce reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and inhibit ROS-dependent apoptosis. We found that interaction of Tax with USP10 inhibits arsenic-induced SG formation, stimulates ROS production, and augments ROS-dependent apoptosis in HTLV-1-infected T cells. These findings suggest that USP10 is a host factor that inhibits stress-induced ROS production and apoptosis in HTLV-1-infected T cells; however, its activities are attenuated by Tax. A clinical study showed that combination therapy containing arsenic is effective against some forms of ATL. Therefore, these findings may be relevant to chemotherapy against ATL. 
The MAO inhibitor phenelzine can improve functional outcomes in mice with established clinical signs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE).	Many symptoms in multiple sclerosis (MS) can be related to changes in the levels of key neurotransmitters. These neurotransmitters have a direct role in the maintenance of neurons and also have immunomodulatory properties. Previously we have shown that when treatment began prior to the onset of clinical signs, daily treatment with the monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor phenelzine (PLZ), which also elevates CNS levels of GABA, lead to substantial behavioral improvements in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model for MS. To determine whether PLZ could have beneficial effects in an already established disease state, we conducted experiments in which PLZ treatment only began when mice with EAE exhibited the first clinical signs of the disease. Using this more clinically relevant treatment approach, we find that PLZ treatment can reduce the severity of clinical signs and improve exploratory behaviors for the duration of the experiment in mice with EAE. Treatment with PLZ did not affect the infiltration of CD4+ T-cells into the spinal cord nor did it reduce the degree of reactive gliosis as measured by Iba1 immunostaining. Beginning PLZ treatment after the start of clinical signs did however lead to significantly better 5-HT innervation density in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and also resulted in higher levels of GABA, dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain and spinal cord. These results indicate that even in an established EAE disease state, PLZ can have clinical benefits. These benefits likely derive from PLZ's ability to normalize the innervation to ventral horn motor neuron pools as well as the elevations in GABA and biogenic amines that have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties. 
Effect of prenatal steroid treatment on the developing immune system.	Prenatal steroids have an undisputed positive effect of decreasing neonatal morbidity and mortality by improving fetal lung maturation. Some concerns have been raised on long-term consequences on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and cognition, but there are no studies addressing effects on the immune system. The thymus is an essential organ for the development and selection of T cells, and thymocytes are extremely sensitive to steroids. Using a mouse model for prenatal steroid administration, we show here that betamethasone treatment to the mother has a profound effect on the thymus of the offspring. We find the thymus volume reduced, affecting mostly the developing CD4+ CD8+ double-positive thymocytes and a compensatory accelerated transition of the earlier stages to replenish the depleted compartment. This effect lasts for at least 3 days, which correspond to a very relevant period for the selection of the T cell repertoire. Moreover, we show that low doses of betamethasone have similar effects on human thymocytes in vitro. Therefore, further studies are needed to analyze possible long-term consequences of this treatment on the immune system of the offspring.
Clonal cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis in children may be cured by cyclosporine A.	Cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis (CHP) is a rare panniculitis in childhood, associated either with nonmalignant conditions or with subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma (SPTCL), and often also associated with macrophage activation syndrome (MAS). Discriminating between these 2 conditions is therapeutically important because nonmalignant CHP often improves under cyclosporine and prednisone, whereas most cases of SPLT may be best treated with more aggressive therapy. We report the cases of a 6-month-old boy and a 16-month-old girl who, after viral infection, developed multiple infiltrating skin nodules on the limbs and face, associated with MAS. Histopathologic findings for skin biopsy specimens revealed CHP associated with heavily cellular lobular panniculitis. Hemophagocytosis and immunohistochemical staining features were consistent with typical characteristics of in situ MAS in adipose tissue: the lymphocytes were mostly TCD8+ cells with an activated phenotype (human leukocyte antigen (HLA) -DR+) and expressed interferon-; CD68+ macrophages expressed tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-6. A monoclonal rearrangement of the T-cell receptor  gene was present in skin tissue but not in peripheral blood or bone marrow lymphocytes. Cyclosporine A treatment resulted in the complete remission of cutaneous and systemic manifestations in both patients for 66 and 29 months, respectively. This report suggests that the diagnosis of a reactive T-cell lymphoproliferation should be the treatment of choice in young children with severe CHP, even if there is a SPTCL-like aspect with an in situ T-cell clonality. It also suggests that CSA is the optimal treatment of this condition and postulates the possible pathologic process underlying this efficacy. 
Effect of novel dinuclear platinum(II) complexes on redox status of MOLT-4 leukemic cells.	As the alkylating agents metabolism is accompanied by reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, the aim of this study has been to compare the effect of cisplatin and novel platinum(II) complexes, Pt2(isopropylamine)4(berenil)2, Pt2(piperazine)4(berenil)2, Pt2(2-picoline)4(berenil)2, Pt2(3-picoline)4(berenil)2, Pt2(4-picoline)4(berenil)2, on the redox state of human leukemic T-cells line Molt-4. Treatment of Molt-4 with the novel complexes has shown that all compounds enhance total ROS and superoxide anion generation as well as change the activity of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase. Moreover, all the above-mentioned compounds cause a decrease in the level of non-enzymatic antioxidants such as GSH as well as vitamin C, E and A. Such a situation is conducive to oxidative stress formation and oxidative modifications of cellular macromolecules. DNA damage of MOLT-4 leukemic cells is connected with 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and N7-methyldeoxyguanosine generation. The increased level of protein carbonyl groups and dityrosine indicates enhanced protein oxidative modifications, while an increase in the level of lipid peroxidation products, MDA, 4-HNE and isoprostanes proves the significant lipid peroxidation after treatment of Molt-4 cells with the complexes. Moreover, the complexes enhance expression of Bax and cytochrome c as well as decrease the expression of Bcl-2 and p53 protein. The novel platinum(II) complexes in comparison with cisplatin disturb redox status more intensively and lead to oxidative stress in Molt-4 cells. The enhanced oxidative modifications of macromolecules of human leukemic cancer cells lead to a shift in the proapoptotic-antiapoptotic balance into the proapoptotic direction.
Rapamycin extends murine lifespan but has limited effects on aging.	Aging is a major risk factor for a large number of disorders and functional impairments. Therapeutic targeting of the aging process may therefore represent an innovative strategy in the quest for novel and broadly effective treatments against age-related diseases. The recent report of lifespan extension in mice treated with the FDA-approved mTOR inhibitor rapamycin represented the first demonstration of pharmacological extension of maximal lifespan in mammals. Longevity effects of rapamycin may, however, be due to rapamycin's effects on specific life-limiting pathologies, such as cancers, and it remains unclear if this compound actually slows the rate of aging in mammals. Here, we present results from a comprehensive, large-scale assessment of a wide range of structural and functional aging phenotypes, which we performed to determine whether rapamycin slows the rate of aging in male C57BL/6J mice. While rapamycin did extend lifespan, it ameliorated few studied aging phenotypes. A subset of aging traits appeared to be rescued by rapamycin. Rapamycin, however, had similar effects on many of these traits in young animals, indicating that these effects were not due to a modulation of aging, but rather related to aging-independent drug effects. Therefore, our data largely dissociate rapamycin's longevity effects from effects on aging itself. 
Marital distress prospectively predicts poorer cellular immune function.	Distressed marriages enhance risk for a variety of health problems. Immune dysregulation is one potential mechanism; cross-sectional studies have demonstrated that marital distress is linked to maladaptive immune alterations. The current study filled an important gap in the literature by examining the ability of marital distress to prospectively predict immune alterations over a two-year period.
Transforming growth factor- signaling in T cells promotes stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques through an interleukin-17-dependent pathway.	Adaptive immunity has a major impact on atherosclerosis, with pro- and anti-atherosclerotic effects exerted by different subpopulations of T cells. Transforming growth factor- (TGF-) may promote development either of anti-atherosclerotic regulatory T cells or of T helper 17 (TH17) cells, depending on factors in the local milieu. We have addressed the effect on atherosclerosis of enhanced TGF- signaling in T cells. Bone marrow from mice with a T cell-specific deletion of Smad7, a potent inhibitor of TGF- signaling, was transplanted into hypercholesterolemic Ldlr(-/-) mice. Smad7-deficient mice had significantly larger atherosclerotic lesions that contained large collagen-rich caps, consistent with a more stable phenotype. The inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) was expressed in the atherosclerotic aorta, and increased mRNA for IL-17A and the TH17-specific transcription factor RORt were detected in draining lymph nodes. Treating Smad7-deficient chimeras with neutralizing IL-17A antibodies reversed stable cap formation. IL-17A stimulated collagen production by human vascular smooth muscle cells, and RORt mRNA correlated positively with collagen type I and -smooth muscle actin mRNA in a biobank of human atherosclerotic plaques. These data link IL-17A to induction of a stable plaque phenotype, could lead to new plaque-stabilizing therapies, and should prompt an evaluation of cardiovascular events in patients treated with IL-17 receptor blockade.
CTLA4-Ig (abatacept) therapy modulates T cell effector functions in autoantibody-positive rheumatoid arthritis patients.	Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease with a strong MHC class II component and where many patients develop characteristic autoantibodies towards the noncoding amino acid citrulline. Such anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA) have recently been put forward as an independent predictive factor for treatment response by co-stimulation blockade by CTLA4-Ig (abatacept). We have performed a mechanism of action study to dissect T cell functionality in RA patients with long-standing disease undergoing abatacept treatment and the influence of ACPA status.
Identification of a Titin-derived HLA-A1-presented peptide as a cross-reactive target for engineered MAGE A3-directed T cells.	MAGE A3, which belongs to the family of cancer-testis antigens, is an attractive target for adoptive therapy given its reactivation in various tumors and limited expression in normal tissues. We developed an affinity-enhanced T cell receptor (TCR) directed to a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*01-restricted MAGE A3 antigen (EVDPIGHLY) for use in adoptive therapy. Extensive preclinical investigations revealed no off-target antigen recognition concerns; nonetheless, administration to patients of T cells expressing the affinity-enhanced MAGE A3 TCR resulted in a serious adverse event (SAE) and fatal toxicity against cardiac tissue. We present a description of the preclinical in vitro functional analysis of the MAGE A3 TCR, which failed to reveal any evidence of off-target activity, and a full analysis of the post-SAE in vitro investigations, which reveal cross-recognition of an off-target peptide. Using an amino acid scanning approach, a peptide from the muscle protein Titin (ESDPIVAQY) was identified as an alternative target for the MAGE A3 TCR and the most likely cause of in vivo toxicity. These results demonstrate that affinity-enhanced TCRs have considerable effector functions in vivo and highlight the potential safety concerns for TCR-engineered T cells. Strategies such as peptide scanning and the use of more complex cell cultures are recommended in preclinical studies to mitigate the risk of off-target toxicity in future clinical investigations. 
Defective Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen presentation by monocytes from tuberculosis patients.	To determine whether there were any defects in the presentation of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen by monocytes from patients with tuberculosis (TB) and the role of vitamin D in the defence against M. tuberculosis.
Kallikrein transduced mesenchymal stem cells protect against anti-GBM disease and lupus nephritis by ameliorating inflammation and oxidative stress.	Previously we have shown that kallikreins (klks) play a renoprotective role in nephrotoxic serum induced nephritis. In this study, we have used mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as vehicles to deliver klks into the injured kidneys and have measured their therapeutic effect on experimental antibody induced nephritis and lupus nephritis. Human KLK-1 (hKLK1) gene was transduced into murine MSCs using a retroviral vector to generate a stable cell line, hKLK1-MSC, expressing high levels of hKLK1. 129/svj mice subjected to anti-GBM induced nephritis were transplanted with 10(6) hKLK1-MSCs and hKLK1 expression was confirmed in the kidneys. Compared with vector-MSCs injected mice, the hKLK1-MSCs treated mice showed significantly reduced proteinuria, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and ameliorated renal pathology. Using the same strategy, we treated lupus-prone B6.Sle1.Sle3 bicongenic mice with hKLK1-MSCs and demonstrated that hKLK1-MSCs delivery also attenuated lupus nephritis. Mechanistically, hKLK1-MSCs reduced macrophage and T-lymphocyte infiltration into the kidney by suppressing the expression of inflammation cytokines. Moreover, hKLK1 transduced MSCs were more resistant to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. These findings advance genetically modified MSCs as potential gene delivery tools for targeting therapeutic agents to the kidneys in order to modulate inflammation and oxidative stress in lupus nephritis. 
Hydroa vacciniforme-like lymphoma: a chronic EBV+ lymphoproliferative disorder with risk to develop a systemic lymphoma.	Hydroa vacciniforme-like lymphoma (HVLL) is an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive T-cell lymphoproliferative disorder of childhood that occurs mainly in Central and South America and Asia. We present the clinicopathological features of 20 Mexican children with HVLL with a median age of 8 years at diagnosis (range, 1-15). All patients presented with skin lesions involving sun-exposed areas, but not exclusively. Fever, lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly were often observed. Most patients were treated with immunomodulators and/or immunosuppressive agents, resulting in temporary remission. For 13 patients follow-up was available for a median of 3 years (range, 1 month-13 years). Three patients with long follow-up (9-13 years) are alive with disease. Four patients died, 2 after developing systemic lymphoma. Histologically, the skin showed a predominantly angiocentric and periadnexal Epstein-Barr early RNA+ lymphoid infiltrate with variable atypia and subcutaneous involvement. Fifteen patients showed a T-cell phenotype (12, ; 2, ; 1, silent phenotype) and monoclonal T-cell receptor- rearrangements, whereas 6 exhibited a natural killer (NK)-cell phenotype. Four patients had hypersensitivity to mosquito bites. One patient showed both phenotypes. HVLL is an EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorder of -, -, or NK-cell phenotype with a broad clinical spectrum, usually prolonged clinical course, and risk for progression to systemic disease.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cell function is reduced by Withaferin A, a potent and abundant component of Withania somnifera root extract.	Myeloid cells play a crucial role in tumor progression. The most common tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells are myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). These cells promote tumor growth by their inherent immune suppressive activity which is enhanced by their cross-talk. The root extract of the plant Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha) (WRE) has been reported to reduce tumor growth. HPLC analysis identified Withaferin A (WA) as the most abundant constituent of WRE and led us to determine whether the anti-tumor effects of WRE and WA involve modulating MDSC and TAM activity. A prominent effect of MDSC is their production of IL-10 which increases upon cross-talk with macrophages, thus polarizing immunity to a pro-tumor type 2 phenotype. In vitro treatment with WA decreased MDSC production of IL-10 and prevented additional MDSC production of IL-10 generated by MDSC-macrophage cross-talk. Macrophage secretion of IL-6 and TNF, cytokines that increase MDSC accumulation and function, was also reduced by in vitro treatment with WA. Much of the T-cell suppressive activity of MDSC is due to MDSC production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and WA significantly reduced MDSC production of ROS through a STAT3-dependent mechanism. In vivo treatment of tumor-bearing mice with WA decreased tumor weight, reduced the quantity of granulocytic MDSC, and reduced the ability of MDSC to suppress antigen-driven activation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Thus, adjunctive treatment with WA reduced myeloid cell-mediated immune suppression, polarized immunity toward a tumor-rejecting type 1 phenotype, and may facilitate the development of anti-tumor immunity.
Abrogation of chronic rejection in rat model system involves modulation of the mTORC1 and mTORC2 pathways.	Current immunosuppressive regimens fail to avert chronic rejection (CR) of transplanted organs; however, selective targeting of actin-cytoskeletal regulators decreases T-cell motility and abrogates CR in rat model system. Administration of mutated class I major histocompatibility complex molecules or selective targeting of the RhoA pathway, which controls T-cell cytoskeletal activity, using Y27632 (a selective Rock1 inhibitor) resulted in reduced T-cell infiltration and abrogation of CR as judged from the neointimal index (13.919.7 vs. 4537.5; P<0.001) and the number of affected vessels (30% vs. 60%; P<0.01). Here, we examined the role of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway in inhibition of CR.
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3-3-bromoacetate, a novel vitamin D analog induces immunosuppression through PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling cascade.	The molecular mechanism responsible for the immunomodulatory effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (Vit-D) is still not well elucidated. Unavoidable systemic toxicity of Vit-D has encouraged to develop more potent and less toxic Vit-D analogs, such as 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-3-bromoacetate (BE). Our aim was to explore the immunosuppressive effect of BE and its molecular mechanism in autoimmune diseases.
The immunological effects of oil sands surface waters and naphthenic acids on rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	There is concern surrounding the immunotoxic potential of naphthenic acids (NAs), a major organic constituent in waters influenced by oil sands contamination. To assess the immunological response to NAs, rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) waterborne exposures were conducted with oil sands-influenced waters, NAs extracted and purified from oil sands tailings waters, and benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) as a positive control. After a 7d exposure, blood, spleen, head kidney, and gill samples were removed from a subset of fish in order to evaluate the distribution of thrombocytes, B-lymphocytes, myeloid cells, and T-lymphocytes using fluorescent antibodies specific for those cell types coupled with flow cytometry. The remaining trout in each experimental tank were injected with inactivated Aeromonas salmonicida and held in laboratory water for 21 d and subjected to similar lymphatic cell evaluation in addition to evaluation of antibody production. Fluorescent metabolites in bile as well as liver CYP1A induction were also determined after the 7 and 21 d exposure. Oil sands waters and extracted NAs exposures resulted in an increase in bile fluorescence at phenanthrene wavelengths, though liver CYP1A was not induced in those treatments as it was with the BaP positive control. Trout in the oil sands-influenced water exposure showed a decrease in B- and T-lymphocytes in blood as well as B-lymphocytes and myeloid cells in spleen and an increase in B-lymphocytes in head kidney. The extracted NAs exposure showed a decrease in thrombocytes in spleen at 8 mg/L and an increase in T-lymphocytes at 1mg/L in head kidney after 7d. There was a significant decrease in antibody production against A. salmonicida in both oil sands-influenced water exposures. Because oil sands-influenced waters affected multiple immune parameters, while extracted NAs impacts were limited, the NAs tested here are likely not the cause of immunotoxicity found in the oil sands-influenced water.
Selective modulation of lymphoproliferation and cytokine production via intracellular signaling targets by 1- and 2-adrenoceptors and estrogen in splenocytes.	The mechanistic implications of the presence of sympathetic noradrenergic innervation in lymphoid organs in synaptic association with lymphocytes open to the influence of hormonal fluctuations throughout reproductive age in females has not been investigated yet.
Vedolizumab, a monoclonal antibody to the gut homing 47 integrin, does not affect cerebrospinal fluid T-lymphocyte immunophenotype.	Vedolizumab, a gut-homing 47 integrin antagonist, has demonstrated efficacy in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, a serious brain infection associated with natalizumab (an 47 and 41 integrin antagonist), has raised concern that vedolizumab may convey a similar risk. Natalizumab is believed to impair central nervous system immune surveillance by affecting cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lymphocyte counts and the CD4:CD8 ratio. To determine if vedolizumab elicits similar effects, we examined CSF of healthy volunteers by flow cytometry for T-lymphocyte surface markers 5 weeks after administration of intravenous vedolizumab 450 mg. No significant changes were observed in CSF T-lymphocyte populations.
Elevated and dysregulated bone morphogenic proteins in immune cells of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.	The abundance of neural stem cells (NSCs) in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions with extensive astrogliosis suggests that fate factors of NSCs, such as the bone morphogenic protein (BMP) signaling maybe defective in MS. We found an elevated mRNA expression and protein secretion of BMP-2,4,5 but not of BMP-7. This was primarily in T cells. Cell stimulation with anti-CD3/CD28 antibodies or with IFN- induced expression of BMP-2,4,5 mRNA in untreated RR-MS patients, indicating that proinflammatory processes in MS may play a role in the BMP-2,4,5 productions in T cells. These results contribute to the understanding of the negligible extent of neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis with extensive astrogliogenesis and the failure of adequate tissue repair in MS lesions. 
DiaPep277 and immune intervention for treatment of type 1 diabetes.	Type 1 diabetes is a chronic immune-mediated disease resulting in destruction of insulin-producing -cells. Several studies have been performed aiming to halt disease progression after diagnosis; to reduce the increased diabetes risk in islet-autoantibody positive subjects; and to prevent the onset of -cell autoimmunity in subjects genetically at risk but without autoantibodies. Whereas secondary prevention trials failed, trials in newly diagnosed patients have shown partial success in preserving C-peptide. These studies target T-cells and inflammation and make use of antigen-specific immune modulation or stem cell approaches. However, thus far no immune-based therapeutic regimen has cured type 1 diabetes after its clinical onset or has stabilized the decline of C-peptide to achieve the status of an approved drug. This review summarizes immune intervention trials and the current knowledge of DiaPep277 peptide as a form of immune intervention in type 1 diabetes. 
Enhancement effect of dihydroartemisinin on human  T cell proliferation and killing pancreatic cancer cells.	 T cells play important roles in innate immunity against tumors and infections. Inhibitory effect of dihydroartemisinin on growth of cancer cells has been found in recent years. In this study, we investigated the effect of dihydroartemisinin on human  T cell proliferation by MTT assay and killing activity against pancreatic cancer cells SW1990, BxPC-3 and PANC-1 by LDH release assay in vitro. Intracellular molecule alterations were verified by flow cytometry. The results suggested that appropriate concentration of dihydroartemisinin favored the expansion of  T cells and enhanced  T cell mediated killing activity against pancreatic cancer cells. Up-regulation of intracellular perforin, granzyme B expression and IFN- production may be the important mechanism of dihydroartemisinin on increased antitumor activity of  T cells. 
Cellular and urinary microRNA alterations in NZB/W mice with hydroxychloroquine or prednisone treatment.	Determining alterations to disease-associated miRNAs induced by specific therapeutics may allow the use of tailored therapy in lupus. We determined miRNA alterations in female NZB/W lupus mice treated with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) or prednisone (PRED) for 12 weeks beginning at 24 weeks-of-age. B cell, PBMC, and urinary miR-let-7a expression were decreased with HCQ or PRED treatment. HCQ or PRED treatment reduced miR-21 expression in mesangial cells, T cells, pDCs, PBMCs, and the urine. MiR-146a expression was reduced in mesangial cells with HCQ treatment and in pDCs with HCQ or PRED treatment. PRED treatment increased miR-155 expression in mesangial, B, and T cells and PBMCs yet decreased miR-155 expression in pDCs and the urine. In vitro studies confirmed that HCQ or PRED's anti-inflammatory actions are dependent on their ability to inhibit miRNA expression. Our studies indicate that lupus therapeutics may work, in part, by altering the expression of disease-associated miRNAs.
Small molecule inhibitor of antigen binding and presentation by HLA-DR2b as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.	The strong association of HLA-DR2b (DRB1*1501) with multiple sclerosis (MS) suggests this molecule as prime target for specific immunotherapy. Inhibition of HLA-DR2b-restricted myelin-specific T cells has the potential to selectively prevent CNS pathology mediated by these MHC molecules without undesired global immunosuppression. In this study, we report development of a highly selective small molecule inhibitor of peptide binding and presentation by HLA-DR2b. PV-267, the candidate molecule used in these studies, inhibited cytokine production and proliferation of myelin-specific HLA-DR2b-restricted T cells. PV-267 had no significant effect on T cell responses mediated by other MHC class II molecules, including HLA-DR1, -DR4, or -DR9. Importantly, PV-267 did not induce nonspecific immune activation of human PBMC. Lastly, PV-267 showed treatment efficacy both in preventing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and in treating established disease. The results suggest that blocking the MS-associated HLA-DR2b allele with small molecule inhibitors may be a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of MS. 
Comparison of PLA microparticles and alum as adjuvants for H5N1 influenza split vaccine: adjuvanticity evaluation and preliminary action mode analysis.	To compare the adjuvanticity of polymeric particles (new-generation adjuvant) and alum (the traditional and FDA-approved adjuvant) for H5N1 influenza split vaccine, and to investigate respective action mode.
Cyclosporin A prevents induction of the interleukin 2 receptor gene in cultured murine thymocytes.	Blast formation and mitotic activation of G0-arrested mouse thymocytes were triggered by the addition of concanavalin A plus interleukin 2 (IL-2) to the culture medium. When added alone, Con A induces within 6 hr a complex reprogramming ("priming") that comprises the activation of the IL-2 receptor gene. The primed thymocytes are competent to interact with IL-2 and to respond to its growth-promoting effect, which corresponds to blast formation and mitotic activation. Cyclosporin A, an immunosuppressive cyclic peptide of fungal origin, prevents in T lymphocytes the activation of a set(s) of genes encoding lymphokines and the IL-2 receptor but does not affect their expression once they have been activated. The biomedical implications of these observations are discussed.
Antibodies against I-A and I-E determinants inhibit the activation and function of encephalitogenic T-lymphocyte lines.	Two monoclonal antibodies, OX-6 and OX-17, were used to evaluate respectively the roles of I-A and I-E major histocompatibility complex Class II gene products in the in vitro activation and subsequent function in recipient rats of encephalitogenic T-cell lines. Activation of the T-cell lines with guinea pig myelin basic protein (GP-BP) presented by accessory cells (APC) resulted in an increase in the number of blast cells in culture and was reflected by increased uptake of [3H]thymidine [( 3H]Tdy). The number of blasts recovered and [3H]Tdy uptake during activation was reduced drastically in the presence of OX-6, but to a much lesser extent in the presence of OX-17. OX-6 but not OX-17 appeared to block T-cell activation primarily by inhibiting APC function, since preincubation of APC but not T cells with OX-6 before stimulation resulted in complete inhibition of the cultures. After activation, the BP-1 T-cell line or D-9 clone transferred severe paralysis to normal recipient rats. Recipients of OX-6-treated BP-1 or D-9 T cells exhibited very mild or no signs, whereas recipients of OX-17-treated cells developed only slightly less severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) than recipients of untreated encephalitogenic control cultures. In contrast, treatment with OX-17 but not OX-6 reduced the ability of BP-reactive T cells to transfer delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions. Dermal testing with GP-BP in the ears of recipient rats just prior to onset of clinical signs decreased significantly the clinical intensity of EAE induced by activated BP-reactive T cells, but increased the clinical scores in rats which received unstimulated or OX-6-treated T cells. This potentiating effect of GP-BP was due most likely to the presentation of processed antigen to circulating BP-reactive T cells by APC in the ear. These results suggest that both the I-A and I-E gene products may contribute to the activation and subsequent function of encephalitogenic T cells, perhaps through separate mechanisms.
Mechanism of action of an antigen nonspecific inhibitory factor produced by human T cells stimulated by MPPS and PPD.	Human T lymphocytes cultured in vitro for 5 days with C. albicans purified polysaccharide (MPPS) and with purified protein derivative (PPD) from M. tuberculosis produce an antigen nonspecific inhibitory factor(s) (nsINH). nsINH blocks antigen-driven cell proliferation and the development of natural killer cells (NK) when added at the beginning of peripheral blood mononuclear cell culture. Analysis of the mechanism of action shows that nsINH inhibits the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2), the expression of IL-2 receptor (Tac antigen), and the synthesis of immune interferon (IFN). The biochemical characterization of nsINH shows that the suppressive activity is acid (pH 2.5) and temperature (56 degrees C) resistant. Gel filtration analysis indicates a molecular weight of 30-35K and 60-65K. These results suggest a role for nsINH in the down regulation of the lymphokine cascade.
Induction of T-cell proliferation and enhancement of NK activity by supernatants from Con A-stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells: a new lymphokine.	Supernatants from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells activated by Con A contain a factor(s) that stimulates blastogenic activity of normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. This Con A supernatant (CAS) contains stimulatory activity for E-rosette positive lymphocytes (T cells) and requires adherent cells for stimulation of T-cell proliferation. CAS does not contain detectable amounts of IL-2 as determined by its inability to support CTLL cell growth. Nor does it contain IL-1 or interferon. Examination of functional activity of lymphocytes stimulated for 3 days by CAS revealed that NK activity is augmented. This supernate does not appear to have any direct effect on B-cell function, although it induces suppression of polyclonal PWM stimulation of immunoglobulins. Thus, CAS appears to contain a new cytokine with immunomodulating potential.
In vivo effect of isoprinosine on interleukin-2 production, lymphocyte mitogenesis and NK activity in normal and cyclophosphamide immunosuppressed mice.	The in vivo effect of isoprinosine on IL-2 production, mitogen-induced proliferation and NK activity of lymphocytes from normal as well as cyclophosphamide (CY) treated mice has been investigated. Isoprinosine was given in a single dose (50 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg) to normal or CY treated mice (250 mg/kg i.p. simultaneously to isoprinosine). An enhancement of T lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 production was observed in both cases. There was no correlation between the small effect observed in T lymphocyte proliferation and the enhancement of IL-2 levels found in the supernatants of Con A activated spleen cells, specially in normal mice. Administration of isoprinosine every day (50 mg/kg) augmented Con A induced mitogenesis, IL-2 production and NK activity in animals treated with cyclophosphamide, but not in normal mice. Isoprinosine could be of interest in a combined treatment with immunosuppressants for the restoration of certain immune functions. The effect of isoprinosine on immune responses may be mediated in part by changes in IL-2 activity.
The dipeptidylpeptidase-IV inhibitors sitagliptin, vildagliptin and saxagliptin do not impair innate and adaptive immune responses.	Inhibitors of dipeptidylpeptidase IV (DPP-IV) represent a novel class of frequently used anti-diabetic drugs. In addition to its function in metabolic regulation, DPP-IV also plays a role in the immune system. Whether the DPP-IV inhibitors sitagliptin, vildagliptin or saxagliptin impair immune responses is, however, currently unknown. Here, we investigated the effect of these agents on both innate and adaptive immunity. We found that the DPP-IV inhibitors did not affect the innate immune response induced by Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, as cytokine secretion and induction of co-stimulatory molecules by human blood mononuclear cells was not impaired. Furthermore, proliferation of T cells and suppressive function of regulatory T cells was preserved. Mice treated with vildagliptin showed normal cytokine production, immune cell activation and lymphocyte trafficking upon TLR activation. Thus, crucial immunological parameters remain unaffected upon treatment with DPP-IV inhibitors, a fact that is reassuring with respect to safety of these drugs. 
Suppression of soluble T cell-associated proteins by an anti-interferon- monoclonal antibody in adult patients with dermatomyositis or polymyositis.	The aim of this study was to identify serum markers that are modulated by an investigational anti-IFN- mAb, sifalimumab, in adult DM or PM patients.
Involvement of the 2'-5' A pathway in the augmentation of natural killer activity.	Pretreatment of human large granular lymphocytes (LGL) or unseparated peripheral blood mononuclear cells with interferon (IFN) resulted in a significant augmentation of natural killer (NK) activity. This increase was paralleled by an increase in the 2'-5'A synthetase activity. In order to investigate the possibility that IFN might be inducing augmentation of NK cells via the 2'-5'A pathway, we tested the effects of nonphosphorylated core material [(A2'p)2A] and of the triphosphorylated form of the 2'-5'A [ppp(A2'p)2A]. The core material had no detectable effect on NK activity. In contrast, when experiments were performed with the triphosphorylated form of 2'-5'A, NK activity was stimulated. In order to achieve activation, permeabilization of LGL with calcium chloride was necessary and, under these conditions, a dose-dependent augmentation of NK activity was seen. However, the calcium treatment had considerable toxic effects on basal levels of NK activity. Collectively, these results suggest that IFN may be inducing augmentation of NK activity via the 2'-5'A pathway. Further studies will be necessary to determine the effects of IFN and/or 2'-5'A on subsequent activation steps in the process leading to cytotoxicity by NK cells.
Effect of alpha-fetoprotein on arachidonic acid metabolism in a human T-cell line.	Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), an onco-fetal protein which binds specifically polyunsaturated fatty acids, has been shown to modulate arachidonic acid metabolism in a human T-cell line. In Jurkat lymphoma cells, AFP decreases the synthesis of prostaglandins and increases the release of arachidonic acid and leukotrienes. These effects of AFP were observed both in normal and in activated cells. These results suggest that the T lymphocyte directly participates to the immunosuppressive action of AFP through the synthesis of leukotrienes.
Hepatic immune regulation and its involvement in viral hepatitis infection.	The liver has unique immune regulatory functions that promote the induction of tolerance rather than responses to antigens encountered locally. These functions are mediated by local expression of coinhibitory receptors and immunosuppressive mediators that help prevent overwhelming tissue damage. Over the years, we have gained more insight into the local regulatory cues that determine the functional complexity of immune responses regulated locally in the liver. Both the unique hepatic microenvironment and the particular liver sinusoidal cell populations, in addition to hepatocytes, actively modulate immune responses locally in the liver and thereby determine the outcome of hepatic immune responses. This is of high biological and clinical relevance in hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus infections, which can cause acute and persistent infections associated with chronic inflammation in humans that eventually progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Here, we review current knowledge about the balance between immunity and tolerance in the liver and how this may affect our understanding of the determinants of hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus clearance, persistence, and virus-induced liver disease. 
Amiloride-induced suppression of lymphocyte proliferation: inhibition of IL 2 receptor expression after blockade of early sodium influx.	Increased rates of monovalent cation fluxes are implicated in the activation of lymphocytes by mitogens. Our report shows that amiloride and dimethylamiloride, two inhibitors of the Na+/H+ antiport, dose dependently prevent the proliferation of mitogen-activated human peripheral blood lymphocytes. The action of these drugs follows several mechanisms, since their inhibitory effect can be reversed by extensive washing when they are used at low concentrations (150 microM for amiloride, 40 microM for dimethylamiloride), while at higher non cytotoxic concentrations this reversibility is no longer observed. We have studied the mechanism whereby amiloride inhibits the blastogenesis by measuring their effect on: 1) IL 2 production, 2) acquisition of IL 2 responsiveness and induction of IL 2 receptors, 3) IL 2-induced proliferation. Unlike the expression of IL 2 receptors, IL 2 production and IL 2-dependent proliferation were not inhibited by the low drug concentrations which indeed prevent blastogenesis. Moreover under these conditions, an enhanced accumulation of IL 2 was observed in the supernatants of stimulated cells. These results show that the drugs interact differently with the different cell populations involved in T cell proliferation: increase of an amiloride-dependent sodium influx is an obligatory step required to induce the early increase of the ouabain-dependent potassium influx which is needed for the expression of IL 2 receptors. On the contrary, the influx of potassium necessary for the IL 2-dependent proliferation does not seem to be controlled by the amiloride-dependent sodium flux.
Antigen-targeted liposome-encapsulated methotrexate specifically kills lymphocytes sensitized to the nonapeptide of myelin basic protein.	Antigen targeting of liposome-encapsulated cytotoxic drugs to specific lymphocytes may be a useful approach for antigen-specific immunosuppressive treatment of autoimmune diseases in which a specific antigen is involved. The feasibility of utilizing this approach was investigated using experimental allergic encephalomyelitis as an animal model for an autoimmune response. The encephalitogenic determinant of myelin basic protein for the guinea pig is contained in residues 114-122, the so-called nonapeptide. We have acylated the nonapeptide at its N-terminal to anchor it in the lipid bilayer of liposomes containing the cytotoxic drug methotrexate. The nonapeptide on the surface of the liposomes then allows targeting of the liposomal methotrexate in vitro to anti-nonapeptide T lymphocytes obtained from guinea pigs with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Treatment with the nonapeptide-targeted liposomal methotrexate inhibited proliferation of anti-nonapeptide lymphocytes significantly more than that of control lymphocytes. These included non-sensitized lymphocytes, stimulated with phytohemagglutinin, or lymphocytes sensitized to different, unrelated proteins, the purified protein derivative of tuberculin and keyhole limpet hemocyanin, and stimulated with their specific antigens. Furthermore, nonapeptide-targeted liposomes had a greater cytotoxic effect on anti-nonapeptide T cells than untargeted liposomes. The results indicated that specific targeting to and killing of anti-nonapeptide cells was achieved, although improvements of the treatment are necessary before its use can be attempted in vivo.
The inhibitory effects of K+ channel-blocking agents on T lymphocyte proliferation and lymphokine production are "nonspecific".	The effect of K+ channel-blocking agents, tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 4-aminopyridine (4AP), on the responses of cloned murine helper and cytolytic T lymphocytes stimulated with mitogen, anti-T cell receptor monoclonal antibody, or interleukin 2 was examined. The addition of TEA and 4AP reduced [3H]thymidine incorporation and lymphokine production to levels observed in unstimulated cells. However, thymidine incorporation by the tumor cell lines P-815 and SP2/0, which replicate autonomously, also was inhibited by these drugs. Treatment of cloned murine helper T lymphocyte, L2, with TEA appeared to inhibit uptake of [3H]thymidine and [3H]phenylalanine after stimulation with interleukin 2. These results suggest that the inhibitory effects of the K+ channel-blocking agents TEA and 4AP may not be specific for the sequence of events that are initiated by activation of T lymphocytes through the antigen receptor. Instead, the observed inhibitory effects by these agents may result from inhibition of transport of thymidine, amino acids, and other essential metabolites across the cell membrane.
Pertussis toxin modulates microglia and T cell profile to protect experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	Pertussis toxin (PTx) has various effects in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). This study was designed to explore the protective effects of PTx of different doses and subunits. EAE model was induced with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG35-55, 200ug) plus complete Freund's adjuvant in 6-7 week-old female C57BL/6 mice. PTx reduced clinical deficits of EAE by 91.3%. This reduction in clinical deficits was achieved by attenuating demyelination by 75.5%. Furthermore, PTx reduced the lymphocyte infiltration, deactivated microglia activation and changed T cell profile by increasing T helper (type 1 and 2) and T regulatory cells. 
Chronic ethanol feeding induces subset loss and hyporesponsiveness in skin T cells.	Chronic alcoholism is associated with increased incidence and severity of cutaneous infection. Skin-resident T cells orchestrate numerous immunological functions that are critically involved in both tissue homeostasis and cutaneous immunity. The impact of chronic ethanol (EtOH) exposure on skin T cells has not previously been examined; given their important role in maintaining the immune barrier function of the skin further study is warranted.
Modulation of innate and antigen-specific immune functions directed against Listeria monocytogenes by fungal toxins in vitro.	Mycotoxins, a large group of secondary fungal metabolites, are ubiquitously present in the environment and are potentially harmful to exposed humans and animals. Despite increasing interest in this group of fungal metabolites it is still difficult to estimate the relative toxic potential of one individual mycotoxin compared with others. We therefore compared the effects of some of the most important mycotoxins on effector cells of the innate and adaptive immune system in an in vitro model. Our data show clear differences of various mycotoxins in regard of their immunotoxic potential on mouse macrophages and T cells. Our results also indicate differences in the susceptibility of specific immune effector functions of macrophages and T cells exposed to mycotoxins. Thus, our results enhance the understanding of role of mycotoxins in the pathogenesis of human and animal diseases. 
Soluble Fas ligand is associated with natural killer cell dynamics in coronary artery disease.	Apoptosis of natural killer (NK) cells is increased in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and may explain why NK cell levels are altered in these patients. Soluble forms of Fas and Fas ligand (L) are considered as markers of apoptosis. Here, we investigated whether plasma levels of Fas and FasL were associated with NK cell apoptosis and NK cell levels in CAD patients.
Qu Feng Xuan Bi Formula attenuates anaphylactic rhinitis-asthma symptoms via reducing EOS count and regulating T cell function in rat ARA models.	Aqueous extract of Qu Feng Xuan Bi Formula (QFXBF, a Chinese herb formula) which composed of Radix Glycyrrhizae, Radix Glycyrrhizae Preparata, Paeonia sterniana Fletcher in Journ, Pheretima, Allium macrostemon Bunge, Astragalus membranaceus (Fisch) Bunge and Divaricate Saposhnikovia Root has been used in treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma (ARA) as an approved hospital prescription for many years in Jiangsu Province Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, China. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of the aqueous extract of QFXBF in the gene expression of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) and the manners of immune modulation of T cell-associated interleukin (IL-4 and IL-13) in rat ARA models.
Prebiotic oligosaccharides directly modulate proinflammatory cytokine production in monocytes via activation of TLR4.	Prebiotic oligosaccharides are currently used in a variety of clinical settings for their effects on intestinal microbiota. Here, we have examined the direct, microbiota independent, effects of prebiotics on monocytes and T lymphocytes in vitro.
A biodegradable nanoparticle platform for the induction of antigen-specific immune tolerance for treatment of autoimmune disease.	Targeted immune tolerance is a coveted therapy for the treatment of a variety of autoimmune diseases, as current treatment options often involve nonspecific immunosuppression. Intravenous (iv) infusion of apoptotic syngeneic splenocytes linked with peptide or protein autoantigens using ethylene carbodiimide (ECDI) has been demonstrated to be an effective method for inducing peripheral, antigen-specific tolerance for treatment of autoimmune disease. Here, we show the ability of biodegradable poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLG) nanoparticles to function as a safe, cost-effective, and highly efficient alternative to cellular carriers for the induction of antigen-specific T cell tolerance. We describe the formulation of tolerogenic PLG particles and demonstrate that administration of myelin antigen-coupled particles both prevented and treated relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (R-EAE), a CD4 T cell-mediated mouse model of multiple sclerosis (MS). PLG particles made on-site with surfactant modifications surpass the efficacy of commercially available particles in their ability to couple peptide and to prevent disease induction. Most importantly, myelin antigen-coupled PLG nanoparticles are able to significantly ameliorate ongoing disease and subsequent relapses when administered at onset or at peak of acute disease, and minimize epitope spreading when administered during disease remission. Therapeutic treatment results in significantly reduced CNS infiltration of encephalitogenic Th1 (IFN-) and Th17 (IL-17a) cells as well as inflammatory monocytes/macrophages. Together, these data describe a platform for antigen display that is safe, low-cost, and highly effective at inducing antigen-specific T cell tolerance. The development of such a platform carries broad implications for the treatment of a variety of immune-mediated diseases. 
Oxypurinol directly and immediately activates the drug-specific T cells via the preferential use of HLA-B*58:01.	Allopurinol (ALP) hypersensitivity is a major cause of severe cutaneous adverse reactions and is strongly associated with the HLA-B*58:01 allele. However, it can occur in the absence of this allele with identical clinical manifestations. The immune mechanism of ALP-induced severe cutaneous adverse reactions is poorly understood, and the T cell-reactivity pattern in patients with or without the HLA-B*58:01 allele is not known. To understand the interactions among the drug, HLA, and TCR, we generated T cell lines that react to ALP or its metabolite oxypurinol (OXP) from HLA-B*58:01(+) and HLA-B*58:01(-) donors and assessed their reactivity. ALP/OXP-specific T cells reacted immediately to the addition of the drugs and bypassed intracellular Ag processing, which is consistent with the "pharmacological interaction with immune receptors" (p-i) concept. This direct activation occurred regardless of HLA-B*58:01 status. Although most OXP-specific T cells from HLA-B*58:01(+) donors were restricted by the HLA-B*58:01 molecule for drug recognition, ALP-specific T cells also were restricted to other MHC class I molecules. This can be explained by in silico docking data that suggest that OXP binds to the peptide-binding groove of HLA-B*58:01 with higher affinity. The ensuing T cell responses elicited by ALP or OXP were not limited to particular TCR V repertoires. We conclude that the drug-specific T cells are activated by OXP bound to HLA-B*58:01 through the p-i mechanism. 
IL-1-dependent activation of dendritic epidermal T cells in contact hypersensitivity.	Substances that penetrate the skin surface can act as allergens and induce a T cell-mediated inflammatory skin disease called contact hypersensitivity (CHS). IL-17 is a key cytokine in CHS and was originally thought to be produced solely by CD4(+) T cells. However, it is now known that several cell types, including  T cells, can produce IL-17. In this study, we determine the role of  T cells, especially dendritic epidermal T cells (DETCs), in CHS. Using a well-established model for CHS in which 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) is used as allergen, we found that  T cells are important players in CHS. Thus, more IL-17-producing DETCs appear in the skin following exposure to DNFB in wild-type mice, and DNFB-induced ear swelling is reduced by 50% in TCR(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. In accordance, DNFB-induced ear swelling was reduced by 50% in IL-17(-/-) mice. We show that DNFB triggers DETC activation and IL-1 production in the skin and that keratinocytes produce IL-1 when stimulated with DNFB. We find that DETCs activated in vitro by incubation with anti-CD3 and IL-1 produce IL-17. Importantly, we demonstrate that the IL-1R antagonist anakinra significantly reduces CHS responses, as measured by decreased ear swelling, inhibition of local DETC activation, and a reduction in the number of IL-17(+)  T cells and DETCs in the draining lymph nodes. Taken together, we show that DETCs become activated and produce IL-17 in an IL-1-dependent manner during CHS, suggesting a key role for DETCs in CHS. 
Retrospective evaluation of the impact of functional immunotoxicity testing on pesticide hazard identification and risk assessment.	Conduct of a T-cell-dependent antibody response (TDAR) assay in rodents according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Test Guideline OPPTS 870.7800 is now required for chemical pesticide active ingredients registered in the United States. To assess potential regulatory impact, a retrospective analysis was developed using TDAR tests conducted on 78 pesticide chemicals from 46 separate chemical classes. The objective of the retrospective analysis was to examine the frequency of positive responses and determine the potential for the TDAR to yield lower endpoints than those utilized to calculate reference doses (RfDs). A reduction in the TDAR response was observed at only the high-dose level in five studies, while it was unaltered in the remaining studies. Importantly, for all 78 pesticide chemicals, the TDAR no-observed-adverse-effect levels (TDAR NOAELs) were greater than the NOAELS currently in use as risk assessment endpoints. The TDAR NOAELs were higher than the current EPA-selected endpoints for the chronic RfD, short-term, intermediate and long-term exposure scenarios by 3-27,000, 3-1,688, 3-1,688 and 4.9-1,688 times, respectively. Based on this analysis, conduct of the TDAR assay had minimal impact on hazard identification and did not impact human health risk assessments for the pesticides included in this evaluation. These data strongly support employment of alternative approaches including initial weight-of-evidence analysis for immunotoxic potential prior to conducting functional immunotoxicity testing for pesticide active ingredients.
Immunology of liver transplantation.	In comparison with other solid-organ transplants, liver allografts are immunologically privileged. Allografts are rejected by immune reactions of the host, and clinical therapy for liver allografts includes immunosuppression to prevent rejection. Orthotopic liver transplant causes systemic donor-specific T-cell tolerance. In addition, antigens introduced into hepatocytes or the portal vein cause tolerance. The basic mechanism in liver tolerance may include continuous exposure of diverse liver cell types to endotoxin derived from intestinal bacteria. This exposure promotes the expression of cytokines, antigen-presenting molecules, and costimulatory signals that inactivate T cells, partly by effects on liver antigen-presenting cells. A simple, reliable, noninvasive assay to evaluate antidonor alloreactivity may be important in implementing these approaches in the laboratory and clinic. 
Immunomodulation of phloretin by impairing dendritic cell activation and function.	Dietary compounds in fruits and vegetables have been shown to exert many biological activities. In addition to antioxidant effects, a number of flavonoids are able to modulate inflammatory responses. Here, we demonstrated that phloretin (PT), a natural dihydrochalcone found in many fruits, suppressed the activation and function of mouse dendritic cells (DCs). Phloretin disturbed the multiple intracellular signaling pathways in DCs induced by the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist lipopolysaccharide (LPS), including ROS, MAPKs (ERK, JNK, p38 MAPK), and NF-B, and thereby reducing the production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Phloretin also effectively suppressed the activation of DCs treated with different dosages of LPS or various TLR agonists. The LPS-induced DC maturation was attenuated by phloretin because the expression levels of the MHC class II and the co-stimulatory molecules were down-regulated, which then inhibited the LPS-stimulating DCs and the subsequent nave T cell activation in a mixed lymphocyte reaction. Moreover, in vivo administration of phloretin suppressed the phenotypic maturation of the LPS-challenged splenic DCs and decreased the IFN- production from the activated CD4 T cells. Thus, we suggest that phloretin may potentially be an immunomodulator by impairing the activation and function of DCs and phloretin-contained fruits may be helpful in the improvement of inflammation and autoimmune diseases. 
Signal tranducers and activators of transcription: expression and function in anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis.	Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis (AAV) is an autoimmune small vessel vasculitis. Despite the role of autoantibodies, T cells play an essential role in pathogenesis and are abnormal in AAV. Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) affect immunoregulation and T-cell homeostasis. Therefore, the present study examined the ex vivo basal expression of the activated forms of STAT5 [phosphorylated (p)STAT5] and STAT3 (pSTAT3) in AAV and analyzed the function of two signaling pathways linked to these transcription factors. In total, 31 patients with AAV and 16 age-matched healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled. CD3+ T cells from peripheral blood were analyzed directly ex vivo by a fluorescence-activated cell sorter for basal expression of pSTAT5 and pSTAT3. Expression was also analyzed in T cells following short-term stimulation with interleukin (IL)-2 or -10. The basal expression of pSTAT5/3 in T cells was similar to AAV patients and HC. Following stimulation with IL-2 or -10, expression of pSTAT5/3 increased in AAV subjects compared with HC. Basal expression of pSTAT3 correlated with the relapse rate in AAV. In conclusion, STAT3 and STAT5 mediated signaling pathways were functionally intact in AAV patients and exhibited hyper-responsiveness to IL-2 and -10 stimuli. Thus, T-cell abnormalities in AAV are not promoted by an altered basal expression of pSTAT5/3 or dysfunction of the IL-2/-10 signaling pathways, in which STAT5/3 are essential.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-6, enhances the polarization of alternatively activated macrophages.	Macrophages are important innate immune cells that are associated with two distinct phenotypes: a pro-inflammatory (or classically activated) subset with prototypic macrophage functions such as inflammatory cytokine production and bactericidal activity, and an anti-inflammatory (or alternatively activated (AAM)) subset linked with wound healing and tissue repair processes. In this study, we examined the effect of interlukein-6 on human and murine macrophage polarization. The results indicate that despite being commonly associated with pro-inflammatory functions and being implicated in the pathogenesis/pathophysiology of numerous inflammatory diseases, interleukin-6 can enhance the polarization of AAMs, based on increased expression of hallmark markers: arginase-1, Ym1 and CD206; this effect required the AAM differentiating cytokines, IL-4 and IL-13. Co-treatment of AAMs with IL-6 resulted in spontaneous release of IL-10, suppressed LPS-induced nitric oxide production and inhibited cytokine production by activated CD4+ T cells - immunoregulatory features not observed in the 'parent' IL-4+IL-13-induced AAM. The effect of IL-6 required signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3, was partially dependent on up-regulation of the IL4R chain, and was independent of autocrine IL-10. In the presence of IFN, IL-6 promoted the production of IL-1 and TNF suggesting that this cytokine can enhance the phenotype to which a macrophage has committed. This finding may explain the pleiotrophic nature of IL-6, where it is associated with the perpetuation and enhancement of disease in inflammatory situations, but is also necessary for resolution of inflammation and adequate wound healing to occur in others. Thus, the potential benefit of IL-6 in promoting an AAM, with its' anti-inflammatory and wound healing ability, may need to be considered in immunotherapies aimed at in vivo modulation or inhibition of IL-6. 
CXCR4 is dispensable for T cell egress from chronically inflamed skin via the afferent lymph.	T cell recirculation through extralymphoid tissues is essential to immune surveillance, host defense and inflammation. In this process, T cells enter the tissue from the blood and subsequently leave via the afferent lymph. In the absence of inflammation, T cells require CCR7 expression to egress from the skin or lung, which is consistent with the constitutive expression of the CCR7 ligand CCL21 on lymphatic endothelium. However, during chronic inflammation alternative chemoattractants come into play, allowing Ccr7-deficient (Ccr7-/-) T cells to egress efficiently from affected skin. As T cell egress from inflamed sites is a potential control point of the inflammatory response, we aimed to determine alternative T cell exit receptors using a mouse and a sheep model. We show that CCR7+ and CCR7- T cells exiting from the chronically inflamed skin were highly responsive to the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12, which was induced in the lymphatics in the inflamed site. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that CXCR4 mediates T cell egress from inflamed skin. However, pharmacological inhibition of CXCR4 did not affect the tissue egress of wildtype or Ccr7-/- CD4 and CD8 T cells after adoptive transfer into chronically inflamed skin. Similarly, adoptively transferred Cxcr4-/- Ccr7-/- and Ccr7-/- T cells egressed from the inflamed skin equally well. Based on these data, we conclude that, while CXCR4 might play an essential role for other cell types that enter the afferent lymphatics, it is dispensable for T cell egress from the chronically inflamed skin. 
Inhibition of T-lymphocyte activation by the immunosuppressive drug FK-506.	Nanamolar concentrations of the immunosuppressive drug FK-506 inhibit the induction of T-lymphocyte proliferation by the lectins concanavalin A (Con A) and phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). Activation by Con A is more sensitive to inhibition than the response to PHA. FK-506 inhibits an early Ca2+-dependent step in the activation process, and its effects are not reversible by the addition of recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) or lymphokine-rich culture supernatant. While the effects of suboptimal concentrations of FK-506 and cyclosporin A (CsA) are additive, FK-506 does not enhance the effects of optimal concentrations of CsA. Both drugs also have similar effects on the expression of specific mRNA in Con A-activated lymphocytes. A brief preincubation of unstimulated cells with FK-506 irreversibly inhibits their subsequent responsiveness to Con A. The mechanism of action of FK-506 thus resembles that of CsA, except that it is effective at two to three orders of magnitude lower concentrations and its effects are much less readily reversible.
Cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate metabolism in activated T-cell clones.	The role of cAMP in lymphocyte proliferation was investigated in the response of a monoclonal T-cell population to a specific antigen and compared to the response to interleukin-2 (IL-2) and allogeneic cells. Myelin basic protein (MBP)-reactive and encephalitogenic T-cell clones were established from long-term lines derived from SJL/J (H-2s) mice. The clone 4b.14a recognizes the peptide sequence 89-101 of the MBP molecule in association with 1-As products of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Incubation of 4b.14a cells with syngeneic antigen-presenting cells, previously pulsed with the 89-101 synthetic peptide or with 80 U/ml of IL-2, or allogeneic H-2Ik cells, resulted in a significant increase in the accumulation of intracellular cAMP. This increase was preceded by a peak in membranal adenylate cyclase (AC) activity. Parallel time kinetics but significantly higher cAMP production and AC activity were observed when the cells were treated with pertussis toxin. At the same concentrations the toxin inhibits cellular proliferative responses, assayed by [3H]thymidine incorporation. Our results indicate the involvement of cAMP as a positive signal in the activation of the 4b.14a clone.
Activators of protein kinase C up-regulate the cell surface expression of CD2 and CD5 T cell glycoproteins.	Activation of human T cells through the CD3-T cell receptor complex caused an augmentation in the cell surface expression of CD2 and CD5 glycoproteins. Evidence that protein kinase C is involved in the up-regulatory mechanism of these cell surface molecules has been obtained by three different approaches: (a) the changes in antigen expression were observed with activators of protein kinase C such as phorbol esters but not with activators of kinases dependent on calcium/calmodulin or cAMP; (b) the overexpression of CD2 and CD5 is also observed in cells treated with 1,2-dioctanoyl-rac-glycerol, an analogue of the physiological activator of protein kinase C; and (c) 1-(5-isoquinolinyl)-2-methylpiperazine, an inhibitor of protein kinase C but not N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride, an inhibitor of the cAMP-dependent kinase, impairs CD2 and CD5 up-regulation. These changes in cell surface antigen expression appear to be caused by the concomitant increase in the mRNA levels for CD2 and CD5. Phosphorylation studies of the CD2 and CD5 glycoproteins indicated that the overexpression of these molecules was not associated with a specific pattern of phosphorylation since it was observed independently of their hyperphosphorylated or nonphosphorylated state.
Charybdotoxin blocks voltage-gated K+ channels in human and murine T lymphocytes.	A variety of scorpion venoms and purified toxins were tested for effects on ion channels in human T lymphocytes, a human T leukemia cell line (Jurkat), and murine thymocytes, using the whole-cell patch-clamp method. Nanomolar concentrations of charbdotoxin (CTX), a purified peptide component of Leiurus quinquestriatus venom known to block Ca2+-activated K+ channels from muscle, blocked "type n" voltage-gated K+ channels in human T lymphoid cells. The Na+ channels occasionally expressed in these cells were unaffected by the toxin. From the time course of development and removal of K+ channel block we determined the rates of CTX binding and unbinding. CTX blocks K+ channels in Jurkat cells with a Kd value between 0.5 and 1.5 nM. Of the three types of voltage-gated K+ channels present in murine thymocytes, types n and n' are blocked by CTX at nanomolar concentrations. The third variety of K+ channels, "type l," is unaffected by CTX. Noxiustoxin (NTX), a purified toxin from Centruroides noxius known to block Ca2+-activated K+ channels, also blocked type n K+ channels with a high degree of potency (Kd = 0.2 nM). In addition, several types of crude scorpion venoms from the genera Androctonus, Buthus, Centruroides, and Pandinus blocked type n channels. We conclude that CTX and NTX are not specific for Ca2+ activated K+ channels and that purified scorpion toxins will provide useful probes of voltage-gated K+ channels in T lymphocytes. The existence of high-affinity sites for scorpion toxin binding may help to classify structurally related K+ channels and provide a useful tool for their biochemical purification.
CTLA-4Ig-induced T cell anergy promotes Wnt-10b production and bone formation in a mouse model.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by severe joint erosion and systemic osteoporosis. Chronic T cell activation is a hallmark of RA, and agents that target the CD28 receptor on T cells, which is required for T cell activation, are being increasingly used as therapies for RA and other inflammatory diseases. Lymphocytes play complex roles in the regulation of the skeleton, and although activated T cells and B cells secrete cytokines that promote skeletal decline, under physiologic conditions lymphocytes also have key protective roles in the stabilization of skeletal mass. Consequently, disruption of T cell costimulation may have unforeseen consequences for physiologic bone turnover. This study was undertaken to investigate the impact of pharmacologic CD28 T cell costimulation blockade on physiologic bone turnover and structure.
Environmental exposures, epigenetic changes and the risk of lupus.	A dose-dependent combination of environmental exposures, estrogenic hormones and genetic predisposition is thought to be required for lupus to develop and flare, but how the environment modifies the immune system in genetically predisposed people is unclear. Current evidence indicates that environmental agents that inhibit DNA methylation can convert normal antigen-specific CD4+ T lymphocytes into autoreactive, cytotoxic, pro-inflammatory cells that are sufficient to cause lupus-like autoimmunity in animal models, and that the same changes in DNA methylation characterize CD4+ T cells from patients with active lupus. Environmental agents implicated in inhibiting T-cell DNA methylation include the lupus-inducing drugs procainamide and hydralazine, as well as diet, and agents causing oxidative stress, such as smoking, UV light exposure, and infections, which have been associated with lupus onset or disease activity. Other studies demonstrate that demethylated T cells cause only anti-DNA antibodies in mice lacking a genetic predisposition to lupus, but are sufficient to cause lupus-like autoimmunity in genetically predisposed mice and likely people, and that estrogens augment the disease. Collectively, these studies suggest that environmental agents that inhibit DNA methylation, together with lupus genes and estrogens or endocrine disruptors, combine in a dose-dependent fashion to cause lupus flares.
Correcting effect of ladasten on variations in the subpopulation composition of T lymphocytes in C57BL/6 mice on the experimental model of an anxious-depressive state.	We studied the effect of Ladasten (30 mg/kg intraperitoneally for 5 days) on the subpopulation composition of T cells in immunocompetent organs of male C57Bl/6 mice during modeling of an anxious-depressive state (chronic zoosocial stress). Stress exposure of animals for 30 days was followed by a decrease in the relative weight of the thymus, increase in the weight of the spleen, reduction of the percentage of T cell populations, and shift in the CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio toward cytotoxic T cells. Administration of Ladasten had a normalizing effect on the relative weights of study organs and subpopulation composition of T cells in immunocompetent organs, which returned to the control level.
B cell suppressing and CD8+ T cell enhancing effects of photosensitive dye platonin in humans.	Platonin is one of the photosensitive dyes of trithiazole pentamethine cyanine. It is used as an effective medicine for rheumatoid arthritis. In our study, platonin suppressed the immunoglobulin (Ig) production of human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) stimulated by Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I (SAC) or pokeweed mitogen (PWM). It also suppressed the PWM induced Ig production of B cells when T cells and/or B cells were pretreated with platonin, respectively. The percentage of CD8+ T cells was increased by platonin. Our results suggest that platonin suppresses Ig production through suppressing B cells and enhancing CD8+ (suppressor/cytotoxic) T cells.
Protective effect of N-acetyl chitohexaose on Listeria monocytogenes infection in mice.	A water-soluble oligosaccharide, N-acetyl chitohexaose (NACOS-6) was able to enhance the protecting effect of BALB/c male mice against Listeria monocytogenes infection, when administered intraperitoneally 24 hr before the challenge with this microbe. Significant decrease in number of microbes within the peritoneal cavity, spleen, and liver from the mice of NACOS-6-administered group was not observed 1 day after the infection but 4 days after the infection. Administration of NACOS-6 enhanced the delayed-type hypersensitivity response against sheep red blood cells (SRBC) or heat-killed L. monocytogenes. Splenic T lymphocytes from mice administered NACOS-6 released macrophage activating factor (MAF). These results suggested that NACOS-6 was also able to elevate the function of cellular immunity. Macrophages treated with a combination of NACOS-6 and the culture supernatant of splenic T lymphocytes from mice administered NACOS-6, "NACOS-6 sup," were found to exert a fairly strong growth-inhibitory effect on L. monocytogenes. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin 2 (IL-2) were able to enhance the growth-inhibitory effect on L. monocytogenes by the NACOS-6-treated macrophages.
Role of interleukin-4 in T-cell ontogeny: changes in cell surface phenotype and lymphokine production of immature thymocytes after culture with interleukin-4 and phorbol ester.	We have analyzed the phenotype and functional capabilities of adult and fetal CD4 8 thymocytes after 4 d of culture in IL-4 and PMA. Both adult and day 14 fetal CD4 8 thymocytes failed to acquire CD4 or CD8 antigens following culture. However, changes in expression of other antigens typical of immature thymocytes were observed. For example, the frequency with which cells expressed high levels of J11d or IL-2-R was greatly decreased following culture, whereas the frequency with which high levels of MEL-14, the lymph node homing receptor were expressed were greatly increased. This phenomenon may be due to direct induction by IL-4 and PMA of MEL-14 expression on purified MEL-14lo CD4-8- thymocytes. The frequency of cells expressing CD3, Ly-1 and Pgp-1 changed only slightly. Functionally, the cultured cells produced large amounts of interferon gamma but very little IL-2 or IL-4, although freshly isolated CD4-8- thymocytes produced all three lymphokines. These results suggest that in addition to a proliferative stimulus, culture in IL-4/PMA alters the expression of several early thymocyte antigens, the functional capabilities of CD4-8- progenitor thymocytes, and may act as a selective differentiation stimulus to MEL-14lo CD4-8- thymocytes.
Protection of OK-432, a Streptococcus pyogenes preparation, against lethal infection of mice with herpes simplex virus.	We have studied the protective effect of OK-432, a biological response modifier (BRM) of Streptococcus pyogenes origin, on the lethal infection of mice with herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1. A single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of more than 10 micrograms of OK-432, when given at least two days before the infection, gave a marked effect yielding nearly 100% protection against ordinarily lethal infection. The protection was independent of the amount of infected virus inoculated. When given after the infection, the agent even at the maximal dose (100 micrograms), produced only a marginal effect. A single i.p. administration of OK-432 augmented the natural killer (NK) activity of peritoneal exudate cells and spleen mononuclear cells in mice 2 to 3 days after injection of OK-432, coinciding with the times when it induced a survival effect on HSV-infection. Treating OK-432-treated mice with a combination of an anti-macrophage agent, silica, and an anti-NK cell agent, anti-asialo GM1 serum, before infection diminished the antiviral effect of OK-432. The OK-432 protection against HSV infection was also markedly diminished in athymic nude mice. Thus, the protective effect of OK-432 on lethal HSV infection seems to be based on the activation of NK cells, macrophages, and T lymphocytes.
A cytokine, lymphocyte blastogenesis inhibitory factor (LBIF), arrests mitogen-stimulated T lymphocytes at early G1 phase with no influence on interleukin 2 production and interleukin 2 receptor light chain expression.	The function of a human cytokine, lymphocyte blastogenesis inhibitory factor (LBIF), was characterized. To this end, LBIF was purified from crude supernatant of U-937 cells, a human macrophage-like cell line, by using fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC). We demonstrated here that (a) the LBIF preparation completely inhibited phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated T cell proliferation; (b) however, in PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes LBIF inhibited neither interleukin (IL)2 production nor the expression of IL2 receptor (IL2R) light chain (CD25) which play a critical role for T cell proliferation; (c) LBIF arrested PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes at the G1 phase of cell cycle and inhibited entry into S phase, thus inhibiting lymphocyte proliferation. Wright-Giemsa's staining of the cells showed that PHA/LBIF-stimulated cells were arrested in early G1. In agreement with this result, LBIF strongly inhibited PHA-induced RNA synthesis. Further, LBIF inhibited the induction of the transferrin receptor which is normally expressed at the late G1 phase of the cell cycle. The inhibitory activity of LBIF was reversible. Thus, this study elucidated that LBIF arrests PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes at a point between the stages of IL2 production or IL2R light chain expression (in early G1) and transferrin receptor expression (in late G1). Taken together, these results suggest that there might be a control system of T cell proliferation distinct from the previously reported mechanisms, such as the inhibition of IL2 production or the inhibition of IL2R light chain (CD25) expression, and that LBIF might be an important molecule in the regulation of normal lymphocyte proliferation.
Distinct effects of aminopterin on stimulation of T and B lymphocytes with mitogen.	Aminopterin, a folate antagonist, added to cultures of mouse spleen cells stimulated with T-cell mitogens markedly inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, [3H]thymidine incorporation into the cells. Contrary to this inhibitory effect aminopterin added at the same concentrations to cell cultures stimulated with B-cell mitogens significantly increased [3H]thymidine incorporation. The inhibitory effect of aminopterin on T-cell activation was completely reversed by adding hypoxanthine to the cultures. Analysis of the mechanism of aminopterin action showed direct, mutually opposite, effects of this drug on T- and B-cell populations. The results thus not only demonstrate that polyclonally activated T and B lymphocytes differ in their sensitivity to the toxic action of aminopterin, but simultaneously support early findings suggesting differences in nucleic acid metabolic pathways between T- and B-cell populations.
Structure function relations of immunologically relevant molecules: impact of gene technology]	To date progress in our understanding of cell-mediated immune responses appears breath-taking. This is, at least in part, due to the fact that immunological problems become increasingly analysed by methods provided by modern molecular biology. This fruitful interconnection led to an understanding of the mechanisms governing antigen recognition by T cells, the lymphokine mediated control of immune responses and successful attempts to utilize this knowledge in therapeutic protocols.
In vitro and in vivo action of cyclosporin A on the induction of human interleukin-2 receptor alpha and beta chains.	To compare in vitro and in vivo cyclosporin A (CyA) effects on early events involved in human T cell activation, lymphocytes obtained from healthy donors and from diabetic patients undergoing CyA therapy were studied for their interleukin 2 (IL-2) responsiveness, surface IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) expression and IL-2R mRNA accumulation, following stimulation with mitogen or anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody. T cells recovered from eight in vivo CyA-treated patients and stimulated in vitro for 4 h with mitogen or anti-CD3 (in the absence of CyA) showed significant (50-60%) inhibition of Tac mRNA accumulation, as assessed and quantified by scanning densitometry. Conversely, these cells showed no modification in their expression of membrane alpha (p55, Tac) or beta (p70) chains of IL-2R in binding experiments performed with both iodinated anti-Tac and IL-2 following 18 h stimulation with either mitogen or anti-CD3. Normal lymphocytes treated in vitro with CyA showed significant inhibition of alpha chain IL-2R expression both at the mRNA and the membrane level. At variance, expression of the IL-2R beta chain was unaffected; a significant number of high-affinity IL-2 binding sites was still detectable after in vitro CyA treatment. These results suggest that: (1) a residual immunosuppressive effect of CyA on T cell activation may be evidenced in in vivo treated cells by measuring very early events triggered following short-term stimulation; (2) CyA activity on T cell activation seems similar in vivo and in vitro; and (3) the described approach would be potentially useful to monitor the individual in vivo immunosuppressive capacity of CyA.
A cytotoxic serine proteinase isolated from mouse submandibular gland.	We have isolated a novel cytotoxic factor from the submandibular glands of male BALB/c mice by Sephadex G-50 gel filtration chromatography and reverse-phase HPLC. The cytotoxic factor is a serine proteinase, which belongs to the mouse glandular kallikrein (mGK) family, with an Mr of approximately 27,000. The purified serine proteinase showed cytotoxic activity against mouse thymocytes in a dose-dependent manner, and a serine proteinase inhibitor, diisopropyl fluorophosphate, blocked its cytotoxic activity.
Comparative analysis of IL-2 and IL-3 induced tyrosine phosphorylation.	IL2 and IL3 are polypeptide growth factors that support the survival and proliferation of, respectively, activated T lymphocytes and a range of myeloid cell types. We have examined the involvement of tyrosine phosphorylation in IL2 and IL3 mediated signal transduction. Phosphotyrosyl proteins were immunoaffinity purified and analyzed by single and two dimensional gel electrophoresis. The majority of phosphotyrosyl proteins purified from human T lymphocytes and murine myeloid cells had identical 2 D electrophoretic mobilities, suggesting a high degree of evolutionary conservation. Several proteins in both cell types increased in tyrosine phosphorylation after factor stimulation, including pp200, pp180, pp92, and pp42. The 92 kD protein was the most highly modulated phosphoprotein identified, with increases in phosphorylation greater than 18 fold after 20 min of stimulation. These results suggest that signal transduction pathways for IL2 and IL3 involve tyrosine phosphorylation of protein substrates common to both lymphoid and myeloid linages.
Inhibition of antibodies to CD3 surface antigen and phytohemagglutinin-mediated T cellular responses by inhibiting Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase activity with the aid of 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride.	Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent kinase activity (C-kinase) plays an important second messenger role in T lymphocyte responses initiated by the cluster of differentiation (CD3) complex and presumably also lectinic receptors. During treatment with submitogenic or mitogenic amounts of phytohemagglutinin, as well as with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody and 12-O-tetradecanoyl 13-phorbol acetate, the enzyme was intracellularly redistributed between the cytosol and the surface membrane. Submitogenic amounts of lectin and anti-CD3 were ineffective in inducing proliferation unless exogenous interleukin 2 (IL-2) was supplied, implying that even though IL-2 receptors were expressed, additional signals were required for IL-2 production. This would also indicate that there is a direct relationship between activation of C-kinase and expression of IL-2 receptors. The importance of C-kinase was further substantiated by the ability of 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride (H7), a potent inhibitor of this enzyme, to interfere with IL-2 receptor expression and cellular [methyl-3H]thymidine uptake during primary activation. The drug concentration at which these cellular responses were inhibited by 50% was about the same as that which decreased c-kinase activity by 50% in vitro. H7 also prevented anti-CD3-induced translocation in intact cells. This effect may be related to competition with the phosphatidylserine binding site, which is important for membrane attachment. This drug apparently also interferes with the active center of the enzyme as demonstrated by its ability to inhibit Ca2+/phospholipid-independent phosphorylation of protamine sulfate. This additional mode of inhibition may be important in suppressing intact cell responses under circumstances during which the enzyme displacement to the membrane is nonphysiologic in nature, e.g., during treatment with 12-O-tetradecanoyl 13-phorbol acetate.
Failure of dideoxynucleosides to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus replication in cultured human macrophages.	Primary human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) were shown to have diminished deoxynucleoside kinase activities compared to T lymphoblasts, and a reduced ability to phosphorylate dideoxynucleosides with anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. These drugs, azidothymidine (AZT), dideoxycytidine (ddC), and dideoxyadenosine (ddA), which are potent anti-HIV agents in CD4 lymphocytes, did not inhibit HIV replication in MDM, even at concentrations of 100 microM. This drug concentration of AZT is approximately 100-fold higher than the levels attained in the serum of treated patients and the levels required to inhibit HIV replication in lymphocytes. These observations may explain the failure of AZT therapy to clear viremia, consistent with the presence of a drug-resistant reservoir of infected cells in vivo. New therapeutic approaches to inhibit the replication of HIV in MDM may be needed.
Effect of Nocardia rubra cell wall skeleton on augmentation of cytotoxicity function in human pleural macrophages.	The ability of Nocardia rubra cell wall skeleton (N-CWS) to augment macrophage cytotoxicity function was examined using human pleural macrophages prepared from 32 malignant pleural effusions and 53 pleural washings. The cytostatic activity of pleural macrophages for human lung cancer cells (PC-9) was augmented following incubation of pleural mononuclear cells with 10 micrograms/ml N-CWS for 24 h. Macrophage activity was increased by direct interaction of macrophages with N-CWS or by incubation of macrophages with supernatant culture fluids from pleural lymphocytes with N-CWS. The cytotoxic potential of the pleural macrophages obtained from patients treated with 500 micrograms of N-CWS intrapleurally was also increased. The heat and acid stability studies revealed that the culture fluids from pleural lymphocytes treated with N-CWS contained macrophage activation factor in addition to interferon-gamma. These results suggest that direct and indirect macrophage activation is part of the mechanism in which N-CWS has a clinical effect on malignant pleural effusions.
Mechanism of activation of lymphocyte Na+/H+ exchange by concanavalin A. A calcium- and protein kinase C-independent pathway.	Treatment of thymic lymphocytes with the mitogenic lectin concanavalin A (ConA) increases the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration and stimulates phosphoinositide turnover. ConA also induced a rapid, amiloride-sensitive, Na+-dependent increase in cytosolic pH of 0.13 +/- 0.01, indicative of stimulation of the Na+/H+ antiport. To investigate the mechanism underlying activation of Na+/H+ exchange by ConA, the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration changes induced by this lectin were precluded by loading the cells with Ca2+-buffering agents and suspension in Ca2+-free media. Under these conditions, the ConA-induced cytoplasmic alkalinization proceeded normally. Two approaches were used to assess the role of protein kinase C. First, this enzyme was inhibited by the addition of 1-(5-isoquinolinysulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine. In the presence of this potent antagonist, stimulation of the antiport by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate was greatly inhibited. In contrast, stimulation by ConA was unaffected. Second, protein kinase C was depleted by overnight incubation with phorbol esters. Following this treatment, Na+/H+ exchange was no longer activated by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-13-acetate, but was still stimulated by ConA. These data suggest that a Ca2+- and protein kinase C-independent mechanisms mediates the activation of Na+/H+ exchange by ConA. The possible role of GTP-binding proteins in the activation was also studied. The antiport was not stimulated by either fluoroaluminate or vanadate. Moreover, pretreatment with pertussis toxin failed to inhibit the ConA-induced cytoplasmic alkalinization. In contrast, preincubation with cholera toxin partially inhibited activation. Under these conditions, cholera toxin significantly elevated intracellular cAMP levels. Inhibition was also observed in cells treated with forskolin at concentrations that increased [cAMP]. The data suggest that a novel cAMP-sensitive signaling mechanism not involving Ca2+ and protein kinase C is involved in the stimulation of Na+/H+ exchange by mitogens in T lymphocytes.
Aluminum fluoride induces phosphatidylinositol turnover, elevation of cytoplasmic free calcium, and phosphorylation of the T cell antigen receptor in murine T cells.	Antigen activation of murine T lymphocytes leads to phosphorylation of three subunits of the murine T cell antigen receptor (L.E. Samelson, M.D. Patel, A.M. Weissman, J.B. Harford, and R.D. Klausner. 1986. Cell 46:1083). Two kinases are activated in this process: protein kinase C which leads to phosphorylation of the gamma and, to a lesser extent, the epsilon subunits on serine residues and a tyrosine kinase which phosphorylates the p21 subunit (M.D. Patel, L.E. Samelson, and R.D. Klausner. 1987. J. Biol Chem. 262:5831). We sought to determine whether treatment of these cells with NaF could simulate any of these antigen-induced events. Indeed NaF treatment resulted in breakdown of polyphosphoinositides and production of phosphoinositols. This treatment also resulted in a rise in cytosolic free Ca2+. EGTA failed to block this rise suggesting that NaF liberated intracellular stores of Ca2+. Finally NaF treatment resulted in phosphorylation of the gamma and epsilon chains of the T cell receptor indistinguishable from the effects of phorbol esters. The NaF effect was potentiated by addition of A1Cl3 consistent with the view that the active moiety is A1F4-. The A1F4--induced phosphorylations were abolished in cells in which protein kinase C was depleted by prior treatment with phorbol myristate acetate. All of these observations are compatible with the interpretation that the A1F4- phosphorylation is mediated by protein kinase C. Antigen and anti-receptor antibody-induced receptor serine phosphorylation and phophatidylinositol turnover are blocked by raising intracellular levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate. In contrast, A1F4--induced effects were insensitive to cyclic adenosine monophosphate.
Inhibition of mitogen-stimulated T lymphocyte proliferation by calcitonin gene-related peptide.	The effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on mouse lymphocyte proliferation stimulated by mitogens was studied. CGRP (10(-10)-10(-7) M) dose-dependently inhibited the proliferative response of mouse lymph node cells and spleen cells stimulated by T cell mitogens concanavalin A (Con A) and phytohemagglutinin (PHA), whereas a B cell mitogen lipopolysaccharide (LPS) did not inhibit this response. The maximal inhibition by this peptide was 50% to 80% at 10(-8) and 10(-7) M. The addition of 10(-8) and 10(-7) M CGRP to lymph node cell cultures 24 hr after stimulation with Con A or PHA also had a significant inhibitory effect on the proliferative response. Furthermore, in the same concentration range (10(-10)-10(-7) M) CGRP increased intracellular cyclic AMP concentration in nylon wool nonadherent cells, but not in nylon wool adherent cells. CGRP had no significant effect on intracellular cyclic GMP concentration. In addition, specific binding of CGRP was observed in mouse spleen cells. Our present study suggests that CGRP inhibits the proliferative response of T lymphocytes to the mitogens by interacting with cell receptors coupled with adenylate cyclase. CGRP may be implicated in the regulation of T cell function.
Reduced prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) receptors on atopic T lymphocytes.	We have recently demonstrated that atopic T lymphocytes have decreased sensitivity to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In order to determine whether this decreased sensitivity was reflected at the receptor level, we have employed a radioligand binding assay utilizing [3H]PGE2. We have demonstrated a single specific reversible binding site for [3H]PGE2 on normal T cells (N = 10) with a mean KD (+/-SD) of 32.2 (+/-25.0) nM, a binding capacity of 20.2 (+/-13.0) pM, and a mean of 1004 (+/-118) receptors per cell. Atopic T cells (N = 10) were also found to have a single specific binding site for [3H]PGE2 with a mean KD of 24.9 (+/-17.8) nM, a binding capacity of 7.1 (+/-10.1) pM, and a mean of 372 (+/-61) receptors per cell. These radioligand binding studies were correlated with functional studies in the same subjects. Phytohemagglutinin-stimulated protein synthesis ([3H]leucine uptake) was suppressed in a dose-dependent fashion by PGE2 (10(-6)-10(-12) M). The maximal effect of PGE2 on normal T cells was 10(-6) M PGE2 with an IC50 of 10(-12) M. Atopic T cells responded quantitatively less than normal T cells to PGE2. Further, the maximum suppression of protein synthesis by PGE2 occurred at 10(-6) M with an IC50 of 10(-10) to 10(-11) M. These studies suggest that part of the decreased sensitivity of atopic T cells to PGE2 may result from a reduction in PGE2 binding sites.
Regulation of lymphokine production and human T lymphocyte activation by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Specific inhibition at the level of messenger RNA.	The steroid hormone, 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol), has been shown to inhibit T cell proliferation, primarily through inhibition of interleukin 2 (IL-2) production. In these experiments, we show that calcitriol also markedly inhibited production of the lymphokine, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), by activated human T lymphocytes. Regulation of both IL-2 and IFN-gamma production as well as transferrin receptor (TfR) expression by calcitriol was apparent at the messenger RNA (mRNA) level as determined by Northern blotting. The decrease in IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA that occurred with calcitriol treatment was coordinate and not apparent up to 12 h after phytohemagglutinin stimulation, whereas decreased accumulation of TfR mRNA was not present before 24-36 h. Furthermore, the effects of calcitriol on IL-2, IFN-gamma, and TfR mRNA accumulation were specific; actin mRNA accumulation was comparable between control and treated cells. These data indicate that calcitriol regulated proteins associated with T cell activation at the transcriptional level and that these effects were mediated in a specific, coordinate fashion.
Peptidoglycan isolated from Lactobacillus bulgaricus: its effect, mediated by the complement system, on pre-T-cell maturation]	Peptidoglycan from Lactobacillus bulgaricus converts mouse pre-T-cells into theta-positive cells and activates the complement. It has been observed that the effect depends on serum peptidoglycan concentration and the time of the interaction of the activated complement with mouse pre-T-cells. The action of peptidoglycan was replaced by C3a complement component.
Induction and activation of tissue transglutaminase during programmed cell death.	During the involution of lead nitrate-induced hyperplasia in rat liver a significant increase of transglutaminase activity, enzyme concentration, transglutaminase messenger RNA and protein-bound epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine (product of transglutaminase action) coincided with programmed death (apoptosis) of hepatocytes. Immunohistochemical examination showed the appearance of transglutaminase in apoptotic hepatocytes. An increased transglutaminase level was also detected during glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of rat thymocytes.
Production of bone-resorbing activity corresponding to interleukin-1 alpha by adult T-cell leukemia cells in humans.	The physicochemical properties and relationship of bone-resorbing activity and interleukin 1 (IL-1) produced by adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) cells and cell line were studied in vitro. The culture supernatant of ATL cell line, MT2, and peripheral blood lymphocytes freshly obtained from ATL patients had both IL-1 activity detected by the stimulation of murine thymocyte-proliferative responses and bone-resorbing activity detected by the stimulation of 45Ca release from prelabeled murine fetal bones. By Sephacryl S-200 column chromatography, both activities were eluted as a single peak at approximately Mr 15,000. By the chromatofocusing technique, the isoelectric point values of both activities were estimated as pH 4.8 and 5.2. Furthermore, both activities were absorbed with rabbit anti-IL-1 alpha antiserum, but not with anti-IL-1 beta antiserum. These results suggest that ATL cells and cell line produce bone-resorbing activity which corresponds to IL-1 alpha and that this IL-1 alpha is one of the most important causes of hypercalcemia in ATL patients.
Interleukin 2 promotes conjugate formation by purified LAK precursors and T lymphocytes: evaluation of conjugates using flow cytometric techniques.	The capacity of null cells, enriched in natural killer cells and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell precursors, and T cells to conjugate with tumor targets was analyzed using a flow cytometric assay. Both purified null and T lymphocytes had a similar capacity to conjugate with uncultured and cultured tumor targets prior to interleukin-2 (IL-2) stimulation. In addition, the frequency of conjugation did not correlate with the cytotoxicity expressed by these purified lymphocyte subpopulations, as null but not T cells were highly lytic for the K562 target. Following incubation in IL-2, however, the level of conjugation with tumor targets of both null and T lymphocytes was increased. Both effector populations formed stable conjugates within 6 min at 37 degrees C. The promotion of conjugation was associated with the induction of LAK activity by null but not T lymphocytes. No differences were apparent between the capacity of either IL-2-activated null or IL-2-activated T lymphocytes to conjugate with tumor targets, although only the former efficiently lysed them. Conjugation of both null and T effectors with tumor targets required the presence of Mg2+ cations because it was inhibited by the presence of EDTA (38-72% inhibition) but not EGTA. Conjugation was also inhibited by an antibody (MHM 23) recognizing the beta-chain shared by LFA-1, MAC-1, and P150/95 molecules. These observations demonstrate that both null and T lymphocytes responded to IL-2 with an increase in their ability to conjugate with tumor targets. The frequent formation of stable conjugates under these conditions by cells with both cytolytic and noncytolytic capacity failed to define conjugation as the only major condition proximate to LAK lysis.
The possibilities of predicting allergic effects of new antirheumatics.	The new antirheumatic drugs Benzofenac and Flobufen were assessed for their possible influence on various immunological parameters. They were shown to enhance passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) to ovalbumin in rats and to suppress the numbers of helper and suppressor T-lymphocytes in mice. The effect of Benzofenac in the latter system was found to be more pronounced. The drugs had no effects in any of the other test systems, including the development of delayed hypersensitivity, mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in vitro and the production of antisera (as tested by PCA).
Histamine inhibits interferon-gamma production via suppression of interleukin 2 synthesis.	Histamine, a modulator of various immune functions, inhibits the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) by polyclonally activated human blood mononuclear cells. The histamine-induced inhibition of IFN-gamma synthesis can be completely eliminated by the addition of recombinant IL-2. The IFN-gamma synthesis by T8+ lymphocytes is highly dependent on IL-2 supplied either by the IL-2 producing T4+ lymphocytes or through exogenous addition of recombinant IL-2. It is concluded that histamine acts primarily on the interleukin 2 synthesis by the T4+ lymphocytes and as a consequence of this inhibition, interferon-gamma production is reduced.
Prevention of graft-versus-host disease in allogeneic bone marrow transplantation by pretreatment with 2'-deoxycoformycin.	Germ-free mice were used as a model for acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). C3H/He recipients of DBA/2 cells showed typical symptoms of acute GVHD and died within 8 days. Incubation of the cells with 10 microM 2'-deoxycoformycin (2dCF) + 100 microM deoxyadenosine (dAdo) for 1 h inhibited all T-cell functions as well as T-cell-dependent B-cell functions, but had no effect on B-cell functions that are T-cell independent, nor on the hemopoietic stem cells (CFU-S). Recipients of allogeneic cells that had been incubated with 2dCF + dAdo for 1 h prior to inoculation showed no signs, gross or histological, of acute or chronic GVHD up to 15 months after transplantation. The recovery patterns of the blood and bone marrow were not affected by the treatment, and were similar to those of recipients of treated and untreated syngeneic cells.
Autoreactive T cells in mercury-induced autoimmune disease: in vitro demonstration.	Mercuric chloride induces in Brown-Norway rats an autoimmune disease due to a T dependent polyclonal activation of B cells. Various autoantibodies and a striking increase in total serum IgE level are observed as consequences of this polyclonal activation. The aim of this study was to investigate the in vitro response of autologous syngeneic normal lymphocytes to lymphocytes exposed in vivo or in vitro to HgCL2. Helper/inducer T cells (W3/25 +) exposed to HgCl2 were found to stimulate normal T lymphocytes in the presence of normal Ia (+) cells. The proliferating T cells also had the helper/inducer phenotype. To demonstrate the potential relevance of this in vitro phenomenon to the autoimmune disease, HgCl2-pretreated T cells were injected into the footpads of normal syngeneic recipients. Draining popliteal lymph nodes contained a highly significant number of both surface IgE positive and IgE containing cells. These experiments demonstrate that HgCl2 induces autoreactive T cells and suggest that these cells may be responsible for the autoimmune disease.
Effect of antioxidants on primary alloantigen-induced T cell activation and proliferation.	Because oxygen-centered free radicals are involved in cell-mediated immune responses, we examined the possibility that these reactive species could also have a role in the lymphoproliferative response to alloantigens in the mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC). Three classes of agents that prevent the formation, or damaging effects, of oxygen radicals were tested: the non-permeant electron acceptor ferricyanide; the iron chelators desferrioxamine, desferrithiocin, octanohydroxamic acid, and pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone, which are thought to be capable of preventing the iron-catalyzed reduction of H2O2 to more reactive species; and the lipid-soluble free radical scavenger butylated hydroxyanisole. These compounds inhibited the proliferation of all potential responder cells in the MLC in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition was observed only if these agents were present early (less than 40 hr) in the MLC; if added later, their effects were significantly reduced. In contrast, the interleukin 2 (IL 2)-dependent proliferation of CTLL-2 cells or Con A blasts was not affected by these compounds at concentrations that inhibited proliferation in MLC by greater than 90%. Interleukin 1 (IL 1) production by peritoneal exudate cells and IL 2 and IL 1 levels in MLC were not affected by any of the agents tested. By flow microfluorometry, the expression of IL 2 receptors on stimulated T cells was found to be inhibited in the presence of these drugs. Taken together, the data point to an important role for free radical-mediated processes during the early stages of T lymphocyte activation, before IL 2 receptor expression.
Effect of benzodiazepine derivatives: I. Augmentation of T cell-dependent antibody response by diazepam in mouse spleen cells.	Oral administration of diazepam at doses of 5-10 mg/kg to restraint-stressed mice resulted in almost complete recovery in the stress-induced suppression of the antibody response to sheep red blood cell (SRBC). Moreover, this compound restored the suppression of antibody response to SRBC in cyclophosphamide-treated mice. Diazepam treatment also enhanced the antibody response against SRBC in normal mice only when the animals were immunized with the reduced amount of antigen. It was demonstrated that antigen specific helper T cell activity was promoted by diazepam administration in mice. Addition of diazepam augmented the in vitro anti-SRBC hemolytic plaque-forming cell (PFC) response in mouse splenocytes without altering kinetics of the response. However, the enhancing effect was observed only when the drug was added to the medium at the culture initiation. On the other hand, antibody response to T cell-independent antigens such as trinitrophenylated (TNP)-Ficoll and TNP-lipopolysaccharide were not enhanced by diazepam. Concanavalin A or LPS-induced 3H-thymidine uptake into splenocytes were not stimulated by diazepam. These results suggest that diazepam promotes the antibody response through stimulating helper T cell functions.
Immunomodulating properties of the uremic pentapeptide H-Asp-Leu-Trp-Glu-Lys-OH in vitro.	A pentapeptide originally isolated by Abiko and coworkers from the ultrafiltrate of a uremic patient was synthesized and studied for its in vitro effects on normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The SRBC-rosette forming capacity of T cells was significantly reduced after preincubation of the cells with the peptide, whereas the viability and the percentage of SRBC-receptor positive cells as determined with a monoclonal antibody remained unchanged. The PHA and ConA induced proliferation of T cells as well as the induction of suppressor cells by ConA were decreased, while the proliferative responses to PWM and specific antigens were enhanced. MLC experiments with separated and reconstituted lymphocyte populations pointed to the T cell as the main target. The data presented demonstrate that at least some of the effects described for so-called middle molecules are reproducible with this peptide at concentrations eventually occurring in patients with chronic renal failure.
Functional analysis of T-cell subsets in chronic experimental alcoholism.	In order to obtain a better understanding of immune system function in chronic alcoholism, we have assessed primary B-cell responses to helper T-cell independent (TI) and dependent (TD) antigens in chronic alcoholic Sprague-Dawley male rats fed totally liquid diet containing ethanol. Pair-fed littermates received the same diet except that carbohydrates isocalorically replaced ethanol, which accounted for 36% of the total calories. The ability of alcoholic animals to mount primary in vivo splenic plaque-forming cell (PFC) responses to TI pneumococcal polysaccharide type III (SIII) was elevated throughout 50 days of observation when compared to pair-fed controls; serum antibody responses to SIII paralleled the enhanced PFC responses. Primary in vivo B-cell responses to antigen sheep red blood cells (SRBC), a TD antigen, were initially elevated but were found to be significantly suppressed 30 days after chronic ethanol consumption. The degree of immunosuppression increased with length of chronic ethanol consumption. The elevated primary splenic PFC responses to TI (SIII) may be attributed to loss of T-suppressor cell control, since alcoholic rat spleen cells did not respond to low-dose priming with SIII. We suggest that either loss of function and/or actual depletion of accessory and regulatory cells (T-suppressor and T-helper) may be responsible for irregularities in B-cell function observed during chronic alcoholism. T-cell subset enumeration using fluorescein-labelled monoclonal antibodies revealed that a sequential T-helper and T-suppressor loss occurred several days following dysfunction of these T-cell subsets in splenic populations, suggesting that a combination of numerical and dysfunctional changes in lymphocyte subpopulations may be responsible for the immunological alterations observed in chronic alcoholics.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor produced by cloned L3T4a+, class II-restricted T cells induces HT-2 cells to proliferate.	Cloned L3T4a+ antigen-specific, class II-restricted T cells can be subdivided by function and by cytokine production. All cloned T cell lines produce T cell growth factors that can be distinguished by the ability of monoclonal antibodies to inhibit the proliferation of cytokine-dependent T cell lines induced by these T cell growth factors. From these types of analyses, it has been shown that all cloned T cells that help hapten-specific B cells secrete immunoglobulin, produce interleukin 4 (IL 4). Those cloned T cells that fail to help for anti-hapten responses produce neither IL 4 nor interleukin 2 (IL 2), yet release an activity that induces the proliferation of the cytokine-dependent T cell line, HT-2. Additional analysis of the HT-2 stimulating activity has shown that it is indistinguishable from granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)--this activity being produced by all cloned T cells tested. Thus GM-CSF is a product of all cloned L3T4a+ T cell lines tested thus far, and can serve as a T cell growth factor for HT-2, as well as a co-factor for in vivo derived T cells.
Compromised T-cell regulatory functions during anuran metamorphosis: the role of corticosteroids.	Glucocorticoid receptor concentrations, which are undetectable before metamorphosis, increase to a maximum during the metamorphic period and decline to toadlet levels thereafter. The generation of a high concentration of receptors, imparting enhanced glucocorticoid sensitivity particularly to the lymphoid tissues of metamorphic larvae suggests the possibility that increasing endogenous levels could be responsible for the compromised T-cell functions which have been described for these stages of development (Ruben et al, 1985a).
Immunosuppressive activity of T cell clones generated from human T cells stimulated with autologous TPHA cells.	T cell clones were generated from human T cells stimulated with autologous phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-activated T (TPHA) cells. Characterization of three T cell clones originated from donor SF and one from donor JM showed that they proliferated when stimulated with autologous TPHA cells, non-T cells, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells, but did not proliferate when stimulated with allogeneic TPHA cells, non-T cells, and mononuclear cells, with autologous and allogeneic resting T cells, and with PHA. These results in conjunction with the blocking of the proliferation by anti-histocompatibility leukocyte antigen class II monoclonal antibodies indicate that these class II antigens are involved in the proliferation of T cell clones stimulated with autologous lymphoid cells. The four T cell clones are cytotoxic neither to autologous lymphoid cells nor to a panel of cultured human cell lines. The four T cell clones display immunosuppressive activity, since they inhibit the proliferation of autologous and allogeneic cells stimulated with antigens and mitogens and the secretion of immunoglobulin by B cells stimulated with pokeweed mitogen in presence of T cells. Furthermore, the four T cell clones display differential inhibitory activity on the proliferation of cultured human cell lines. The immunosuppressive activity is species-specific, since the T cell clones do not inhibit the proliferation of murine cells. The suppression is mediated by a factor(s) with an apparent m.w. of 13,000 to 16,000. The suppressor activity is labile at alkaline pH and is lost following incubation with pronase (100 U/ml) for 30 min at 37 degrees C.
Pertussis toxin triggers rapid second messenger production in human T lymphocytes.	Pertussis toxin (PT) is a known mitogen for T lymphocytes. The mechanism by which the toxin stimulates proliferation has remained obscure and paradoxical because, in some types of cells, the toxin also inhibits growth factor-mediated signal transduction. It has previously been shown that the adenosine-diphosphate ribosyltransferase activity of the toxin is not required to produce the mitogenic effect. A biochemical explanation for the mitogenic activity has therefore remained obscure. We investigated the biochemical basis for the mitogenic activity of PT by using the transformed human T cell line, Jurkat. PT stimulated a rapid rise in cytosolic-free [Ca2+] from both intra- and extracellular sources. This was associated with an increase in the cellular diacylglycerol and inositol triphosphate levels with a concomitant decrease in the levels of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate. The half-maximal effective dose of PT was 1.7 nM. PT also stimulated the production of interleukin 2. Only the holotoxin or B-oligomer (the presumptive membrane-binding subunit) was capable of stimulating an increase in [Ca2+] in these cells. This activity of PT mimicked that of some anti-T3-T cell antigen receptor complex monoclonal antibodies that also stimulate increases in the second messengers, diacylglycerol and Ca2+. The effects of PT and anti-T3 complex antibody were identical and not additive in Jurkat cells, suggesting that both agents were activating the same signal transduction pathway. These data provide a mechanistic explanation for the mitogenic effects of PT and suggest that the toxin may be interacting with a specific receptor in the T lymphocyte plasma membrane.
Beta-endorphin modulation of mitogen-stimulated calcium uptake by rat thymocytes.	Lymphocytes stimulated by mitogens or antigens exhibit an enhanced calcium uptake early in the proliferation or activation response. Modulation of this calcium uptake results in alterations of proliferation and immunocompetence. beta-endorphin and other opioids affect several parameters of lymphocyte competence. Limited data are available concerning the mechanism(s) of these effects. This study examines whether a possible opioid mechanism is the modification of the early calcium influx into stimulated lymphocytes. The time course of both concanavalin A (Con A) and phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake into thymocytes was characterized to determine the optimal time for testing the effects of opioids. beta-Endorphin 1-31 significantly enhanced Con A-stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake into rat thymocytes. This peptide had no significant effect on PHA-stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake or on basal thymocyte 45Ca2+ flux. The beta h-endorphin stimulatory effect was titratable in the range of 0.1 nM to 10 microM. Naloxone did not reverse the enhancement. Met-enkephalinamide and other opioid agonists did not duplicate the stimulatory effect. Thus, the beta h-endorphin 1-31 enhancement of Con A-stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake by rat thymocytes does not operate via classical opioid receptor mechanisms. beta h-endorphin 1-31 appears to be acting on a subset of T cells that are responsive to Con A but not to PHA.
Stimulation of suppressor cells in the bone marrow and spleens of high dose cyclophosphamide-treated C57Bl/6 mice.	Systemic administration of a single dose (300 mg/kg) of cyclophosphamide (Cy) induced the appearance of a population of suppressor cells in the bone marrow and spleens of mice. Suppressor cells were assayed by their capacity to inhibit the concanavalin A (Con A) blastogenesis or the mixed-lymphocyte response of normal C57Bl/6 spleen cells. Cy-induced bone marrow (Cy-BM) suppressor cells were present as early as 4 days following Cy therapy and their activity gradually decreased over the next 2 weeks. Cy-induced splenic (Cy-Sp) suppressor cells were maximally present on Days 6 through 10 following Cy therapy. Studies were performed to characterize the suppressor cells of bone marrow obtained 4 days after Cy treatment and of normal bone marrow (N-BM). Some suppressor activity was present in normal bone marrow. N-BM suppressor cells resembled cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage in that they were slightly adherent to Sephadex G-10, sensitive to L-leucine methyl ester (LME), and insensitive to treatment either with anti-T-cell antibody and complement or with anti-immunoglobulin antibody and complement. Their suppressive activity was abrogated by incubation with either indomethacin or catalase. Cy-BM suppressor cells were also resistant to treatment with anti-T-cell and anti-immunoglobulin antibody and complement but were not adherent to Sephadex G-10 and not sensitive to LME. Their suppressive activity was partially eliminated by indomethacin alone or in combination with catalase. We conclude that Cy chemotherapy induces the appearance of a population of immune suppressive cells and that these cells appear first in the bone marrow and subsequently in the spleen.
Metallothioneins of monocytes and lymphocytes.	Monocytes and lymphocytes were separated from human peripheral blood, and their capacity to synthesize metallothioneins (MTs) was examined. Both cell types can produce proteins electrophoretically similar to HeLa cell MTs. These proteins are inducible by Cd2+ and specifically precipitable by anti-MT serum. To have an insight into the capacity of T- and B-lymphocytes to produce MTs, sensitivity to Cd2+ of both cell types was estimated during mitogen-specific blastogenesis. Lymphocytes were prepared from mouse spleen and stimulated by concanavalin A (ConA) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the presence of Cd2+. [3H]thymidine incorporation, as well as [3H]uridine incorporation in an earlier stage, was more severely inhibited by Cd2+ in ConA-induced mitogenesis than in LPS-induced mitogenesis, indicating T-lymphocytes are more sensitive to Cd2+ toxicity. This may reflect lower capacity of T-lymphocytes to synthesize MTs in response to Cd2+.
Abnormal lymphocyte reactivity to self-major histocompatibility antigens in rheumatoid arthritis.	Proliferation of rheumatoid and control peripheral blood mononuclear cells to OKT3, phorbol myristic acid (PMA), phytohemagglutinin (PHA), tuberculin PPD and in the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction (AMLR) was investigated. Only the responses to PPD and in the AMLR were depressed. This was not due to suppression by OKT8 lymphocytes. The proportion of antigen responsive (T4+ 4B4+) cells was normal but suppressor-inducer (T4+ 2H4+) cells were decreased. The depressed response was not completely restored by addition of recombinant interleukin-2. We propose that a basic defect in rheumatoid arthritis resides in T lymphocytes which react to self-major histocompatibility complex antigens either on their own, as in the AMLR, or as restriction elements in the presentations of soluble antigen.
The effect of drugs used in anticoagulation therapy on T lymphocyte activation in vitro. II. Warfarin inhibits T lymphocyte activation.	The effect of warfarin on T lymphocyte activation in vitro was investigated. Warfarin was found to cause a dose-dependent inhibition of both antigen- and PHA-stimulated proliferation. The drug had to be present during the early steps in T lymphocyte activation to cause inhibition. Warfarin seemed to have no effect on antigen processing or presentation. Warfarin inhibited Interleukin 2 (IL-2) production, but had only minimal effects on expression of IL-2 receptors or IL-2 dependent proliferation. The inhibition in most in vitro models was found only at warfarin concentrations exceeding the therapeutic serum level.
Effects of immunosuppressive agents and particularly of cyclophosphamide on lymphocytes subsets in treated multiple sclerosis patients.	Immune treatments have been used in multiple sclerosis (MS) since 20 years, but it is still difficult to estimate their clinical efficacy as well as their precise immunological effects. The development of the monoclonal antibodies techniques makes it possible to appreciate certain immune effects of these treatments in MS patients and to correlate them with clinical results. It appears that Cyclophosphamide is able to correct the CD4/CD8 ratio imbalance observed in most MS patients and that this correction is generally associated with a beneficial effect on the disease. Other immunosuppressive agents appear less effective both on the CD4/CD8 ratio and on the progression of MS.
Requirements for the stimulation of allogeneic T lymphocytes by acute non-lymphoblastic leukaemia cells.	Blast cell populations from 32 patients with acute non-lymphoblastic leukaemia of various morphological types have been examined for their ability to stimulate allogeneic T lymphocytes from normal donors in one-way mixed leucocyte culture (MLC). At the same time, these leukaemic cell populations were examined for the amounts of major histocompatibility complex Class I and Class II antigens they expressed, and their ability to release interleukin 1 (IL1) in culture both with and without stimulation by lipopolysaccharide. The abilities of the leukaemic cell populations to stimulate in MLC, and to produce IL1, were found to be associated with the expression of morphological characteristics of monocytic differentiation, and correlated significantly. In contrast, no correlation was observed between the extent of Class I or Class II expression and MLC stimulatory ability. Many myeloblast populations of immature phenotype were unable to stimulate allogeneic T cells despite their strong expression of these antigens. This lack of stimulatory ability was not overcome by the addition of exogenous IL1. We therefore conclude that the correlation between the production of IL1 and MLC stimulatory ability does not necessarily imply a cause/effect relationship, and that the interaction between allo-antigen and the T cell receptor together with a supply of lymphokine 'co-stimulator' is not sufficient to activate resting T lymphocytes. The failure of some Class I and II antigen positive leukaemic blasts to stimulate in MLC even in the presence of exogenous IL1 may be due to the lack of other differentiation-associated cell surface molecules necessary for stable cell-cell interaction.
Improvement of decreased interleukin 2 (IL-2) responsiveness and IL-2 production in autologous mixed-lymphocyte reaction of cord blood lymphocytes by interferon-gamma and IL-2 and the role of HLA-DQ antigen.	Cord blood T cells did not produce interleukin 2 (IL-2) nor acquire responsiveness to it in autologous mixed-lymphocyte reaction (AMLR) as they do when activated by phytohemagglutinin (PHA). The ability of the cells to respond to IL-2 was restored either by the addition of recombinant IL-2 to the AMLR culture or by the preculture of non-T stimulator cells with recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). IL-2 production was also induced when the T cells were added with recombinant IL-2 at the initiation of the AMLR culture, preceded by the treatment of non-T cells with recombinant IFN-gamma. IL-2-producing cells of cord blood induced in the above-mentioned condition were defined to be OKT4+ T cells, because the deletion of OKT4+ T cells from T-cell population abrogated the reaction, while that of OKT8+ T cells did not. Acquisition of IL-2 responsiveness and IL-2 production of T cells seemed to be mediated by HLA-DR and HLA-DQ molecules of non-T cells because these reactions were blocked by the treatment of non-T cells either with monoclonal anti-HLA-DR or with anti-HLA-DQ antibody. The HLA-DR and HLA-DQ densities of cord blood non-T cells were low as compared with those of adult, but the expression of HLA-DQ was remarkably improved by IFN-gamma treatment. In regard to IL-2, both IFN-gamma and IL-2 were needed to enable the lymphocytes to produce. This may suggest that some functional maturation by IL-2 of responder T cells is further required. These combined data suggested that cord blood non-T cells are defective as a stimulator in AMLR and this could be corrected by enhancing the expression of HLA-DQ antigen.
Inhibitory activity of cyclosporine is dependent on the activating signal(s) provided to T cells.	The effects of cyclosporine on T cell activation induced by monoclonal anti-CD3 antibodies, 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-myristate acetate (TPA), or human recombinant interleukin 2 (IL-2) were investigated. Cyclosporine inhibited anti-CD3-mediated expression of IL-2 receptors and IL-2 factor production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBM). Cyclosporine did not inhibit when TPA rather than anti-CD3 was used to activate the PBM. Effects of cyclosporine on the activation of memory T cells were also dependent on the stimulus used to activate memory T cells. Cyclosporine inhibited alloantigen associated memory T cell activation, but not when IL-2 provided the necessary triggering signal to memory T cells. IL-2-mediated memory T cell activation was inhibitable with monoclonal antibodies directed at the IL-2 receptor or at the IL-2 factor. Collectively, these findings indicate that the inhibitory activity of cyclosporine is dependent on the activating signals provided to T cells. Moreover, antibodies directed at the IL-2 system together with cyclosporine might prove to be more potent immunosuppressants than either agent alone.
Induction of the CD4-8+ suppressor phenotype in CD4+8+ human thymocytes by phorbol myristate acetate.	Human thymocytes were separated according to differential agglutination by peanut lectin (PNA). In the fractions obtained, the distribution and quantitative expression of CD antigens was determined by two-color fluorescence flow cytometry. A major population of CD4+8+ and minor populations of CD4+8- and CD4-8+ cells existed in unfractionated thymocytes. Agglutination of human thymocytes by PNA led to a highly effective enrichment of the CD4+8+ phenotype in the PNA+ thymocytes, and left three distinct phenotypes, CD4+8+, CD4+8-, and CD4-8+, in the PNA-thymocytes. After treatment of the CD4+8+ cells in both PNA+ and PNA- fractions for 20 hr with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), 60%-90% of the cells expressed the CD4-8+ phenotype, whereas the CD4+8+ phenotype was decreased to 1%-3% of the population. In addition, pretreatment of both PNA+ and PNA- thymocytes with PMA induced suppressor activity in these cells, as shown by inhibition of immunoglobulin secretion by pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL).
Effect of electron-acceptor compounds on the immunoregulatory mechanisms and ATPase activity of the erythrocyte membranes from patients with inoperable lung cancer]	In 55 inoperable patients with lung cancer the use of tinidizole and metronidazole with X-ray therapy intensified the immunoregulative disbalance, increased the quantity of circulative immune complexes and reduced the Na+K+-ATPase activity of erythrocyte membranes in contrast to the data obtained from patients receiving only X-ray therapy. Thus the data obtained may be the basis for the use of the correcting therapy in inoperable patients with lung cancer.
Surface antigens of theophylline-resistant and theophylline-sensitive human E rosette-forming T lymphocytes.	Theophylline-resistant (TER) and theophylline-sensitive (TES) subsets of E rosette-forming T cells were analysed for surface antigens detected by monoclonal antibodies Leu-2, Leu-15, Leu-3, and Leu-8. Two-colour analysis was performed by laser flow cytometry. About 30% of TER cells was classified as Leu-2+, 15- precursor cytotoxic T lymphocytes and about 50% as 3+,8+ (T inducers). TES fraction was deficient in cytotoxic 2+,15- cells and contained lymphocytes belonging to suppressor circuit. Leu-3+,8- (helpers and suppressor-amplifiers) were present in both fractions.
Masking of receptors for sheep erythrocytes on human T-lymphocytes by sera from breast cancer patients.	Sera from 140 breast cancer patients and 38 controls were tested for their ability to inhibit sheep erythrocyte (E) rosette formation by normal, allogeneic lymphocytes. Inhibition of rosette formation by greater than 20% was found with 65% of stage I sera, 91% of stage II sera, 56% of stage III sera, and all stage IV sera. In contrast, only 13% of control sera was inhibitory. The inhibitory factor was found to bind to only a proportion of T-lymphocytes and could be removed from these lymphocytes by mild proteolytic digestion or extended washing. Examination of the properties of the inhibitory factor indicated that it differed from other substances that reportedly inhibited E-rosette formation.
Effect of corticosteroids on exercise-induced lymphocytosis.	Eight subjects ran on a treadmill at 8 miles per hr for 10 min. All developed lymphocytosis with predominant effect on the B cells. This was repeated 5 hr after receiving 60 mg of Prednisone. The lymphocytosis of both T and B cells were suppressed. When this was repeated 2 hr after receiving Prednisone, only lymphocytosis of the T subpopulation was suppressed. It was concluded that corticosteroid administration could suppress entry of lymphocytes into the circulation, with preponderant effect on the T subpopulation.
Leukotriene B4 causes proliferation of interleukin 2-dependent T cells in the presence of suboptimal levels of interleukin 2.	We have recently found that endogenous leukotriene B4 (LTB4) production is a necessary component of mitogen-stimulated T-cell proliferation. In this report, we address the relationship between LTB4 and interleukin 2 (IL-2) in stimulating proliferation of IL-2 responsive T cells. We employed an IL-2 responsive T-cell line, HT-2 and also human peripheral blood T cells rendered IL-2 responsive by culture with phytohemagglutinin (PHA). In the presence of concentrations of IL-2 that resulted in suboptimal stimulation of HT-2 cells (5-20% of maximum proliferation), LTB4 at 10(-8) or 10(-10) M produced a several-fold increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation, resulting in levels of [3H]thymidine incorporation that were comparable to those produced by HT-2 cells stimulated with optimal concentrations of IL-2. Similar results were obtained with the peripheral blood T cells. Leukotriene C4, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and arachidonic acid did not share with LTB4 the ability to stimulate proliferation of HT-2 cells. Hydrocortisone and nordihydroguairetic acid (NDGA), drugs which block endogenous LTB4 production in cell cultures inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation of HT-2 cells stimulated by suboptimal but not optimal levels of IL-2. This inhibition could be overcome by the readdition of LTB4 to the cultures. Thus, LTB4 in physiologic concentrations (10(-10) M) can substitute for IL-2 in stimulating proliferation of IL-2 responsive T cells, provided that some IL-2 is present in the culture. Endogenous LTB4 may act synergistically with endogenous IL-2 in promoting T-cell proliferation.
T cell help in human antigen-specific antibody responses can be replaced by interleukin 2.	Recombinant IL 2, and immunosorbent/high performance liquid chromatography-purified interleukin 2 (IL 2) obtained from the human T cell leukemic line Jurkat, but not interferon-alpha or -gamma, were able to substitute for T cells in specific antibody responses to influenza virus by T cell-depleted (E-) human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and resulted in antibody formation equivalent to that obtained in the presence of T cells. The antibody response was shown to be antigen specific by using two non-cross-reacting strains of influenza virus (A/X31 and B/HK). IL 2 in this assay therefore functions as a T cell-replacing factor. Less than 1% of T (UCHT1+) cells were present in the E- preparations, and this number did not increase during the 7-day culture with antigen and IL 2. Because the frequency of T helper cells for X31 is known to be less than 5 X 10(-5), this low number of contaminating cells excluded indirect action of IL 2 through antigen-specific T helper cells. Three to four times less IL 2 was required for antibody production by E- cells than was needed for optimal proliferation by an IL 2-dependent T cell line. Moreover, the concentration of anti-Tac required for 50% inhibition of the IL 2-induced antibody response was 50 times less than required for 50% inhibition of IL 2-dependent proliferation by the T cell line. But when T cells were added back to the E- cells, the anti-Tac inhibition curve shifted back to that obtained with the T cell line. In cell labeling experiments, Leu 11+ cells but not HNK1+ cells were increased in E- cells cultured with antigen and IL 2. This increase in Leu 11+ cells was abolished by prior passage of the E- cells through Sephadex G-10 columns without affecting the IL 2-induced antibody response. From these experiments we conclude that IL 2 can replace T cells in specific antibody responses, and that the IL 2 effect is not mediated indirectly through T cells or large granular lymphocytes.
Increased interleukin-1 and modulation of interleukin-2 production by murine macrophages and lymphocytes treated with LF 1695.	Previous results have demonstrated that lectin-induced T cell proliferation was potentiated or suppressed by LF 1695, a synthetic immunomodulator, depending on the dose used. Therefore the activity of this compound was investigated on murine IL-1 and IL-2 production. Adherent peritoneal cells, incubated with LF 1695, could secrete high levels of IL-1 with only a slight elevation in intracellular IL-1. This effect apparent at 5 and 10 micrograms/ml was linked to a transient state of activation. At low doses, LF 1695 increased IL-2 production by Con A-stimulated spleen cells. A decrease was found at higher doses only when cells were preincubated 20 h with the compound. In murine macrophages stimulated either by A 23187 or LPS PGE2 synthesis was inhibited by LF 1695 even at low doses. However, supernatant LTB4 level was increased in LF 1695-treated culture with a time-dependent effect. Therefore modulation of lectin-induced T cell proliferation by LF 1695 may be IL-2 production-mediated. Inhibition of the cyclooxygenase and stimulation of the lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism may be responsible for this pattern of activity.
Down-regulation of glucocorticoid and beta-adrenergic receptors on lectin-stimulated splenocytes.	Activation of porcine splenocytes with the mitogen, concanavalin A, increases the number of glucocorticoid and beta-adrenergic receptors with no change in the apparent dissociation constant. Incubation of splenocytes with concanavalin A in the presence of hydrocortisone 21-sodium succinate prevented this mitogen-induced increase in glucocorticoid receptors. Isoproterenol also prevented the concanavalin A-induced increase in beta-adrenoceptors at 24 hr and reduced the binding affinity of these receptors at 48 hr. Neither agonist had any significant effect on the receptor number of binding affinity of nonstimulated cells. These data demonstrate that the increase in the number of glucocorticoid and beta-adrenergic receptors that occur on lymphoid cells after activation by a T-cell mitogen can be prevented by appropriate hormone agonists. Down-regulation of receptor number by appropriate agonists appears to be a common regulatory system that is shared by both the neuroendocrine and the immune systems.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Sensitive and receptor-mediated regulation by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	We show that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25[OH]2D3), the most hormonally active metabolite of vitamin D3, modulates sensitively and specifically both the protein and messenger RNA accumulation of the multilineage growth factor granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). The regulation of GM-CSF expression is seen in both normal human mitogen-activated T lymphocytes and T lymphocytes from a line (S-LB1) transformed with human T cell lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1). In contrast, cells from a HTLV-1 transformed T lymphocyte line (Ab-VDR) established from a patient with vitamin D-resistant rickets type II with undetectable 1,25(OH)2D3 cellular receptors are resistant to the action of 1,25(OH)2D3. Inhibition of GM-CSF expression by 1,25(OH)2D3 can occur independently of interleukin 2 regulation and is probably mediated through cellular 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors. We conclude that 1,25(OH)2D3 may be important in the physiology of hematopoiesis.
A role for glucocorticoids in the polyphosphoinositide second messenger system.	Glucocorticoids have been shown to be involved in numerous secretory and activation processes which are known to be mediated by the polyphosphoinositide second messenger system. A connection between glucocorticoids and the polyphosphoinositide system has not been made because of the marked temporal differences in their effects and the fact that most of the known effects of glucocorticoids involve transcription and/or protein synthesis. An attempt is made to to rationalize these apparent incongruities. The recently reported stimulation of glucose transport by kinase C suggests an experimental system to investigate glucocorticoid effects on the polyphosphoinositide system.
In vivo and in vitro induction of cytotoxic lymphocytes by alloantigen-reactive lymphocytes fractionated on spleen cell monolayers.	The generation of cytotoxic T cells by normal and primed lymphocytes fractionated on spleen cell monolayers was examined by two methods. In the first method, sublethally irradiated recipients were inoculated with the fractionated cells, and 5 to 6 days later the spleens were tested for cytotoxicity against 51Cr tumor target cells syngeneic to the host. Significant reduction of cytotoxic activity was observed in one-half of the experiments. In the second method, the fractionated cells were cultured with mitomycin C-treated stimulated cells and tested 6 days later for cytotoxicity. A slight reduction of cytotoxic activity was observed. In both methods, the cytotoxic response generated by the fractionated alloantigen-primed lymphocytes was similar to the response obtained with unprimed cells.
Effect of colchicine on the antibody response. II. Demonstration of the inactivation of suppressor cell activities by colchicine.	The simultaneous administration of colchicine (CC) with a T-independent antigen, e.g. 2,4,6-trinitrophenyl-keyhold limpet hemocyanin-Sepharose, to intact animals effectively enhanced their hapten-specific plaque-forming cell (PFC) response. However, in congenitally athymic nude mice in which T-cell regulation was absent, CC was ineffective in producing enhancement. These observations suggest that the target cell acted upon by CC is most likely thymus-derived. Furthermore, the injection of CC with the co-polymer of L-glutamic acid50-L-tyrosine50 (GT) abolished GT-specific suppression of the PFC response to GT-methylated bovine serum albumin. Spleen cells from CC-treated and GT-primed hosts could no longer transfer suppressive activity to normal recipients. These results provide evidence that CC is capable of inactivating or eliminating suppressor cells or their precursors. Thus, CC-induced enhancement of the antibody response may be explained, at least in part, by its antimitotic, and hence lethal effect on dividing suppressor T cells.
Mechanism by which pertussis toxin breaks unresponsiveness of delayed-type hypersensitivity to sheep red blood cells in mice.	The mechanism by which pertussis toxin (PT) breaks the unresponsiveness of delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) was examined in B10 mice. The unresponsiveness of DTH was induced in mice by iv injection of 10(9) SRBC and broken antigen-specifically by iv injection of 500 ng of PT into mice 1 or more days after SRBC injection. The restored DTH response in the SRBC-primed and PT-treated mice was accompanied by the appearance of Lyt-1-positive splenic T cells, capable of mediating DTH, fractionated in the low-density layers on a discontinuous bovine serum albumin density gradient. To examine the action of PT on the appearance of the DTH-effector cells, the splenic T cells from 10(9) SRBC-primed mice were treated with 100 ng/ml of PT for 60 min in vitro and then transferred into naive recipient mice. The PT-treated T cells acquired the ability to manifest DTH in the recipient mice several days after transfer. A large proportion of them were Lyt-1-positive small cells fractionated in the high-density layers before transfer and transformed into DTH-effector cells fractionated in the low-density layers in the recipient mice after transfer. Moreover, the ability of the PT-treated cells to manifest DTH on transfer was resistant to treatment with mitomycin C. These results suggest that PT acts on the sensitized, small Lyt-1-positive T cells from the unresponsive mice to differentiate them into large T-cell blasts, capable of mediating DTH, as one of the mechanisms by which PT breaks the unresponsiveness of DTH to SRBC.
Detection of rearranged T cell receptor beta-chain gene and induction of cytolytic function in interleukin 2-responsive day 14-15 murine fetal thymocytes.	A subpopulation of interleukin 2 (IL 2) receptor-positive day 14-15 murine fetal thymocytes can be induced by recombinant IL 2 to proliferate over prolonged time periods in dissociated cell cultures. The proliferating day 14-15 fetal thymocytes exhibit no cytolytic effector function, nor do they rearrange T cell receptor beta chain genes. This contrasts with thymic organ cultures in which day 14-15 thymocytes do rearrange beta chain genes and give rise to immunocompetent cells. However, such events can also take place in dissociated cell cultures, provided the IL 2-responsive thymocytes are cultured on syngeneic feeder cells in the presence of IL 2 and the mitogen concanavalin A. Under such conditions rearrangement of the beta chain gene complex becomes detectable and cytolytic effector cells are generated. The frequency of inducible cytolytic precursor cells in day 14-15 thymocytes is 1/7000. These data either imply that immunocompetent cells are already present in the day 14-15 fetal thymus, or differentiation from precursors to immunocompetent cells must occur in dissociated cell cultures.
IFN-gamma is not an essential mediator of murine antibody responses in vitro.	We have used purified murine gamma-interferon (Mu IFN-gamma) and anti-Mu IFN-gamma monoclonal antibody to study the participation of gamma-interferon (IFN-gamma) in in vitro plaque-forming cell (PFC) responses to antigen. We have studied several supernatants with T-cell replacing factor (TRF) activity as well as helper T-cell dependent anti-sheep red blood cells (SRBC) PFC responses. Our findings demonstrate that neither TRF- nor T-cell mediated responses are critically dependent upon IFN-gamma.
Development of fetal thymocytes in organ cultures. Effect of interleukin 2.	Most fetal thymocytes from 14-d mouse embryos are Thy-1+, L3T4-, Ly-2-, and express the receptor for interleukin 2 (IL-2). The development of thymocytes has been followed in fetal thymus organ cultures. When fetal thymus from 14-d embryos were cultured for a 6-d period, thymocytes increased in number 20-40-fold, and 95% became Thy-1+, L3T4+, Ly-2+. The addition of IL-2 to organ cultures of 14-d fetal thymus inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, cell proliferation and the appearance of Thy-1+, L3T4+, Ly-2+ thymocytes. The addition of IL-2 also resulted in the appearance of a population of cells that were cytotoxic for syngeneic and allogeneic fetal thymocytes and syngeneic tumour targets. While the events that lead to the expression of the IL-2 receptor on 14-d fetal thymocytes are unknown, IL-2 in fetal thymus organ cultures inhibits the normal maturation of fetal thymocytes and raises the question of whether the cytotoxic cells that appear reflect selection through an alternative pathway of development.
Aroclor 1254 as a 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin antagonist: effects on enzyme induction and immunotoxicity.	2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and Aroclor 1254 induced the cytochrome P-450 dependent monooxygenases, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) in rat hepatoma H-4-II E cells and C57BL/6J mice. It has been proposed that both Aroclor 1254 and 2,3,7,8-TCDD induce these enzymes via a common mechanism which features initial binding to the aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) cytosolic receptor protein. The major difference between these compounds was the relative potency (i.e. 2,3,7,8-TCDD much greater than Aroclor 1254). Cotreatment of rat hepatoma H-4-II E cells or C57BL/6J mice with a dose of 2,3,7,8-TCDD which submaximally induces AHH and EROD and a dose of Aroclor 1254 which exhibited little or no induction activity resulted in significant antagonism of the induction effects of 2,3,7,8-TCDD. For example, cotreatment of C57BL/6J mice with 2,3,7,8-TCDD (15 nmol/kg) and Aroclor 1254 (25, 75 and 150 mumol/kg) resulted in up to 23% antagonism of AHH induction by 2,3,7,8-TCDD. Moreover, cotreatment with a higher dose of the 2,3,7,8-TCDD agonist (30 or 50 nmol/kg) partially reversed some of the antagonism by Aroclor 1254. In vivo antagonism was observed only at Aroclor 1254/2,3,7,8-TCDD molar ratios of 1667:1, 5000:1 and 10,000:1. Administration of 2,3,7,8-TCDD (3.72 nmol/kg) to C57BL/6J mice resulted in a 76% decrease in the splenic plaque forming cell response to sheep red blood cells. This T-cell mediated immunotoxic effect of 2,3,7,8-TCDD segregates with the Ah locus. In contrast, administration of 5, 15, 75 and 150 mumol/kg of Aroclor 1254 resulted in impairment of the immune response only at the highest dose level. However, cotreatment of mice with 2,3,7,8-TCDD (3.72 nmol/kg) and Aroclor 1254 (5, 15 or 75 mumol/kg) resulted in no significant decrease in the plaque forming cell response and complete protection from the immunotoxicity of 2,3,7,8-TCDD. Cotreatment of the mice with Aroclor 1254 (75 mumol/kg) and a higher dose of the 2,3,7,8-TCDD agonist resulted in partial reversal of the protective effects of Aroclor 1254. The in vitro and in vivo data suggest that within specific antagonist/agonist dose ratios, Aroclor 1254 can antagonize at least 2 Ah receptor-mediated effects of 2,3,7,8-TCDD, namely AHH induction and immunotoxicity.
Interleukin-2 stimulates resting human T lymphocytes' response to allogeneic, gamma interferon-treated keratinocytes.	In order to investigate the biologic significance of HLA-DR expression by human keratinocytes, we have examined the possibility that DR-positive keratinocytes become alloantigen presenting cells for resting T cells in the presence of interleukin-2. Using this system, gamma interferon-treated, DR-positive keratinocytes stimulate the proliferation of allogeneic, resting T cells approximately 3-fold whereas non-gamma interferon-treated, DR-negative keratinocytes do not. Because a monoclonal antibody against recombinant gamma interferon inhibits this proliferation, the stimulation is dependent on pre-incubation with gamma interferon. By contrast, since the stimulation is not inhibited by a monoclonal antibody against HLA-DR, it is not clear that the stimulation is due to class II antigen expression by keratinocytes. To rule out that gamma interferon increases the expression of class I antigens, leading to stimulation of resting T cells on that basis, we determined whether gamma interferon treatment enhances class I antigen expression by keratinocytes. The lymphokine treated cells did not demonstrate more class I antigen expression than untreated keratinocytes. Thus, the observed stimulation of allogeneic, resting T cells by gamma interferon-treated keratinocytes in the presence of IL-2 is not due to increased class I antigen expression but is due to other cell surface antigen(s) induced by recombinant gamma interferon treatment. These results suggest that gamma interferon-exposed keratinocytes in the presence of interleukin-2 may augment the activation of resting T lymphocytes and, in this manner, may contribute to cutaneous inflammation.
Human T-lymphoblastoid cell lines with high and low abilities to produce interferon-gamma constitutively and their susceptibilities to interferon.	A human T-lymphoblastoid cell line, TCL-Fuj, produces large amounts of interferon (IFN)-gamma constitutively. A variant cell line, 2M, was derived from it. Both cell lines express similar surface antigen markers, but differ in surface morphology. Compared with the parent TCL-Fuj cell line, 2M produced less IFN-gamma constitutively but more in response to IFN inducers. The IFNs produced constitutively and on stimulation with inducers were analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In TCL-Fuj cells, the constitutive and induced IFNs consisted of the same molecular species (22K and 39K). In 2M cells, smaller IFNs were produced constitutively (18K and 32K) and induction resulted in a marked increase of 22K molecules. These two cell lines also differed in sensitivity to the antiviral activity of IFN. Other T-lymphoblastoid cell lines, HPB-ALL and TCL-Fuj 4 cells, which did not produce IFN-gamma were permissive for vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) replication; its growth was markedly suppressed by IFN-gamma and -alpha. TCL-Fuj cells were also permissive for VSV, but were not susceptible to the antiviral effect of the IFNs. In contrast, in 2M cells the multiplication of VSV was restricted; the viral yield was further reduced by the IFNs and increased by treatment with anti-human IFN-gamma serum. Several clonal cell lines derived from TCL-Fuj and 2M cells had characteristics similar to the respective parent cell lines. The growth of both cell lines was not affected by IFN-gamma or by -alpha. The separation of antiviral and anti-proliferative susceptibilities was peculiar to 2M cells unlike other cell lines.
Mechanism of action of cyclosporin A in vivo. I. Cyclosporin A fails to inhibit T lymphocyte activation in response to alloantigens.	Although cyclosporin A (Cy A) has been widely used clinically as a potent suppressor of organ allograft rejection and has been shown to block T lymphocyte activation in vitro by inhibiting the generation of interleukin 2 (IL-2) and other lymphokines, little direct evidence is available to support the view that the immunosuppressive effects of Cy A in vivo are mediated by a similar inhibition of the autocrine lymphokine cascade. We have used a quantitative assay for the assessment of the role of the IL-2/IL-2 receptor system in the activation of the draining popliteal lymph node population after the injection of allogeneic cells in the footpad to define the effects of Cy A on the early events of lymphocyte activation in vivo and to compare them with the effects of Cy A on lymphocyte activation in vitro. The administration of Cy A in vivo had no effect on alloantigen-induced increases in cell size, percentage of cells expressing the IL-2 receptor, the spontaneous or IL-2-driven proliferation of freshly explanted cells, or the induction of cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity. These findings raise major questions about the mechanism of action of Cy A in vivo and suggest that more experimentation is required to probe the mechanisms of Cy A-induced suppression of the response to allografts.
Theophylline and the immune response: in vitro and in vivo effects.	We analyzed the in vitro and in vivo effects of theophylline on various immunological parameters including proliferation of peripheral mononuclear cells (PMNC) in response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA), anti-T3 and anti-T11 monoclonal antibodies (MAb), PHA-induced interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production by PMNC, interleukin-1 (IL-1) production by accessory cells, PHA-induced IL-2 production by T-cell clones, and PHA- and anti-T3 MAb-induced DNA synthesis by T cell clones. Results showed that theophylline inhibited PHA- and anti-T3-induced proliferation of both PMNC and T-cell clones, whereas the PMNC proliferation induced by MAb anti-T11 was not affected. The inhibition appeared to be dose-dependent and strictly related to the presence of the drug in the culture. Moreover, PHA-induced IL-2 production by both PMNC and T-cell clones also appeared to be reduced by theophylline. IL-1 production by accessory cells was not affected. These data suggest that the immunological inhibition exerted by theophylline is confined to the T-cell compartment, mainly by acting on structure(s) related to the T3/Ti complex, the primary site for T-cell activation. The alternative pathway of T-cell activation (i.e., via T11 site) seems unaffected. In addition, these results suggest possible clinical relations between the inhibition of the immune response and the plasma levels of the drug reached after a "once daily" or "twice daily" oral ingestion of slow-release theophylline products.
Atopy and RAST. Diagnostic, therapeutic and standardization problems. Experimental contribution (allergy to antibiotics)]	The authors outline the immunological and immunogenetic bases of atopy, as well as the radioimmunological techniques employed in the allergological diagnosis and purification as well as standardization of the allergens. The latest trends of the allergological immunotherapy are examined, covering fundamentally two wide fields: the possibility to elicit an aspecific immunological tolerance (soluble suppressor substances of IgE response; Asp-Ser-Asp-Pro-arg pentapeptide, D-GL copolimer conjugated aptens) or the specific induction of "suppressor" mechanisms (allergoids, modified allergens). The preliminary results obtained on sera of patients with a symptomatology highly indicative of penicillin allergy, employing RAST Penicilloil G and Penicilloil V, are also reported.
Interactions of phospholipid vesicles with murine lymphocytes. II. Correlation between altered surface properties and enhanced proliferative response.	The effect of unilamellar lipid vesicles composed of dioleoyl lecithin (DOL), egg yolk lecithin (EYL), 1:1 EYL:cholesterol (Chol), dipalmitoyl lecithin (DPL), and dimyristoyl lecithin (DML) on the mitogenic response in mouse lymphocytes was tested. Cortisone-resistant thymocytes were briefly treated with lipid vesicles and subsequently stimulated with concanavalin A (con A). All of the lipid vesicles induced an enhanced mitogenic response on day 3 as tested by [3H]TdR incorporation and by counting total cells. The order of enchanced [3H]TdR incorporation (less than or equal to 5.3 times the control) was DML greater than DPL greater than 1:1 EYL:Chol greater than EYL congruent to DOL greater than untreated control cells. These increases were paralleled by increased numbers of total cells. The response of spleen cells to a B-cell mitogen, bacterial lipopolysaccharide, was similarly enhanced by vesicle pretreatments in the same order. Vesicle treatments alone were not mitogenic Pretreatment of cells with lipid vesicles modified lectin binding: DML and DPL increased the binding of [125I]con A by three to four times the control, whereas 1:1 EYL:Chol, EYL, or DOL had little or no effect. The binding of [125I]phytohemagglutinin-P (PHA-P) to vesicle-treated cells was indistinguishable from untreated cells. The lectin (con A; PHA-P)-induced agglutination of vesicle-treated cells was also modified by different lipid vesicles in the same order as the mitogenic response. Based on the results presented in the accompanying report [6], we find that the cell surface adsorption properties of the applied lipid vesicles correlate with their ability to enhance the mitogenic response, and that they modify agglutinability and lectin binding. These results are further discussed in terms of the possible alteration of membrane properties and subsequent cellular activity.
Anti-T cell activity of niridazole in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	The antischistosomal drug niridazole, known to selectively depress cell-mediated immune function, was assessed in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice. EAE results from an immune attack by activated T lymphocytes on the central nervous system. Niridazole given orally at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight three times a week and starting either before or after immunization caused a significant suppression of signs and histological lesions of EAE, lasting up to ten weeks after cessation of treatment. There was no effect of niridazole on either release of macrophage migration inhibition factor in response to specific neural antigen, production of antibody, or on the nonspecific inflammatory reaction to adjuvant. Niridazole presumably acts by preventing release of lymphokines by activated T cells after contact with antigens.
T cell hyperproliferation in autoimmunity prone obese strain (OS) chickens is independent of abnormal mitogen binding in vitro and can be demonstrated in vivo.	In contrast to systemic autoimmunity, spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis of Obese strain (OS) chickens is associated with a marked T cell hyperreactivity in vitro, i.e. an increased proliferation and interleukin 2 (IL 2) secretion in response to Concanavalin A (ConA). In the present study we report an enhanced capacity of OS peripheral lymphoid cells (splenocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes, PBL) to adsorb fluorescein isothiocyante (FITC) labelled ConA, but not phytohemagglutinin (PHA). However, the elevated ConA binding cannot be a prerequisite for in vitro ConA hyperreactivity as OS thymocytes are normal with respect to ConA binding but nonetheless exhibit elevated responses to this mitogen. Moreover, ConA binding does not correlate with the frequency of cells able to express IL 2 receptors upon short term ConA stimulation. The percentage of ConA activatable cells was found to be increased in OS- PBL as compared to normal control PBL, but was unaltered in OS splenocytes. This finding points to a further mechanism of T cell hyperreactivity in OS chicks in addition to the previously reported defects in nonspecific immunosuppression. Finally, enumeration of cells in the S phase revealed that enhanced proliferation of OS T lymphocytes was not restricted to the in vitro response to ConA and phytohemagglutinin (PHA) but also occurs in vivo.
Induction of thymocyte proliferation with B cell stimulatory factor-1]	Murine B cell stimulatory factor (BSF)-1 or interleukin 4 has been shown to regulate various aspects of B cell activation and differentiation. More recently it has been shown that this lymphokine is also involved in the regulation of T cell and mast cell proliferation. In this study we purified BSF-1 activity from supernatants of T cell hybridoma FS6-14. 13 and tested its activity on a variety of in vitro assays. It was found that the purified BSF-1 material has various activities previously ascribed to BSF-1, and interestingly enough it also induces strong proliferation of thymocytes in collaboration with phytohemagglutinin. These results strongly suggest that BSF-1 plays a regulatory role in thymocyte differentiation and further support the notion that lymphokines generally have a broad spectrum of activity.
Guanine nucleotide-induced Ca2+ release in permeabilized murine thymocytes.	GTP and IP3 induced Ca2+ release from an internal store in permeabilized murine thymocytes loaded with Ca2+ by ATP. Ca2+ release was dependent on the concentration of GTP: half-maximal release with 0.5 microM and maximal release with 10 microM. The GTP effect was completely abolished by 100 microM GTP gamma S, GMPPNP and UTP. None of the other nucleotides used except ITP induced Ca2+ release. When GTP was added after the effect of IP3 had virtually subsided, and vice versa, further Ca2+ release occurred, which led to the conclusion that the mechanism of GTP-mediated Ca2+ release may be different from that of IP3-mediated release.
The influence of ciprofloxacin treatment in vivo on cell-mediated immunity to Listeria monocytogenes.	The intravenous and intraperitoneal administration of ciprofloxacin in very high doses (2 x 1 mg/d up to 2 x 2 mg/d) can reduce the bacterial load of mice experimentally infected with the intracellular bacterium, Listeria monocytogenes. The T-cell response generated during the treated infection is affected in much the same way as it is during antibiotic treatment with ampicillin, i.e. the protective immunity established directly correlates with the number of bacteria present during an extended period of time during the primary infection. Although an additional anti-proliferative effect of ciprofloxacin on expanding T-cells as evidenced in in vitro experiments cannot be excluded, our data in summary favour the view that in vivo this effect is at most of minor importance.
Quantitative study of T and B lymphocytes in Hodgkin's disease.	Peripheral  blood lymphocytes forming E rosettes in the presence of sheep red blood cells and those bearing surface immunoglobulins (SIg) have been studied quantitatively as an evaluation of T and B lymphocytes in Hodgkin's disease. 62 patients were investigated, 21 of whom before any treatment. It appears that the lymphocytes forming E rosettes are significantly lower in percentage in 86% of the patients and in absolute count in 65%. SIg bearing lymphocytes are elevated in percentile in 61% of the cases, but the absolute count is normal in 50% of the patients and elevated in 30% only. At diagnosis the T/B lymphocytes equilibrium is modified in 13 among 21 patients but, after the initial treatment of the disease, the ratio is modified in 90% of the patients in complete remission and remains unchanged for years even in the absence of relapse or immnunosuppressive treatment. It is suggested that SIg + lymphocytes from the peripheral blood are actually B lymphocytes and not anti-T-antibody coated T lymphocytes or antigen-antibody lacking of membrane markers, which are numerous in one third of the investigated patients, might be T lymphocytes with qualitative abnormality.
Use of T cell cloning to detect in vivo mutations induced by cyclophosphamide.	By cloning T cells, mutations at the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase locus were quantified in peripheral blood lymphocytes of 12 patients with connective tissue diseases receiving long-term cyclophosphamide. Frequency of mutation was higher than in control subjects and was related to the duration of therapy; therefore, some cells with mutations are long-lived, and these cells accumulate in the peripheral circulation. Mutation frequency was also independently related to age. The results indicate that even low doses of cyclophosphamide are mutagenic and may explain, in part, why these patients are at risk of drug-induced malignancy.
Immunoreconstitution of T-cell impairments in asymptomatic male homosexuals by thymic humoral factor (THF).	The feasibility of using Thymic Humoral Factor (THF) for immunomodulation in asymptomatic male homosexuals was evaluated in a study on fifteen subjects with T-cell impairments, selected on the basis of a 2SD reduction in T helper/inducer (T4+) cells and one additional lymphocytic defect. Following two biweekly courses of treatment, mean relative increments of T4+ (P less than 0.002), T3+ (P less than 0.02) and total lymphocyte (P less than 0.05) populations of the group receiving THF (n = 7) were significantly increased when compared to the placebo group (n = 8). In addition, a transient increase in T4+ lymphocytes was observed after the first course in the two individuals of the THF-treated group who were seropositive for HTLV-III/LAV but not in those who were seronegative. No difference was found between the groups in fluctuations of serum interferon (IFN) or proliferation of peripheral mononuclear cells to mitogens. The results of this limited trial demonstrate that THF is capable of correcting T-cell impairments that may predispose asymptomatic homosexuals to infection by HTLV-III, without affecting IFN production. These findings suggest that future strategies for AIDS prevention in high-risk groups should include institution of large controlled trials in immunodeficient, asymptomatic, HTLV-III/LAV-seronegative male homosexuals to study the potential of selective immunoreconstitution as a preventive measure against HTLV-III/LAV infection.
Functional characterization of an antigen involved in an early step of T-cell activation.	An activation antigen, identified by the monoclonal antibody MLR3, is described that is present on activated T lymphocytes and thymocytes but not on resting T lymphocytes. Immunoprecipitation of radiolabeled membranes from an activated T-cell line showed that the MLR3-binding molecule has a molecular size of 28-34 kDa. Immunofluorescence analysis showed that the appearance of the MLR3 antigen is an early event and precedes that of the interleukin 2 receptor both in T lymphocytes and thymocytes. The proliferative response of resting T cells to OKT3-Sepharose and interleukin 1 or accessory cells, but not the interleukin 2-dependent proliferation, was inhibited by the addition of MLR3 monoclonal antibodies. Similar results wer also obtained in an interleukin 1-dependent human thymocyte proliferation assay. In addition when MLR3-positive cells were cultured with purified interleukin 1, MLR3 surface antigen expression was not observed. Thus MLR3 monoclonal antibody appears to recognize an antigen involved in an early step of T-cell activation related to interleukin 1-dependent functions and on both T lymphocytes and thymocytes.
Fixation, processing, and immunochemical reagent effects on preservation of T-lymphocyte surface membrane antigens in paraffin-embedded tissue.	Fixatives, fixation additives, paraffin processing reagents, and immunochemical reagents were investigated for effects on preservation of T-lymphocyte surface membrane antigens CD3, CD4, and CD8 in human tonsil. Individual reagent effects were assessed in frozen sections by use of monoclonal antibodies and this information was used to optimize T-cell immunostaining in paraffin sections. Harmful factors were fixation delay, fixation at acid pH, fixation and processing at temperatures above 4 degrees C, hot paraffin wax, proteolytic enzymes, methanolic hydrogen peroxide, Triton X-100, and prolonged iodine treatment. Optimal T-cell demonstration in paraffin sections followed tissue fixation in periodate-lysine-paraformaldehyde dichromate at 4 degrees C, pH 7.5; processing through isopropanol, then xylene or chloroform, at 4 degrees C; and embedding in low melting point wax at 45-50 degrees C. Graded antigen stability occurred: CD3 most stable, CD8 least, and CD4 intermediate. CD4 and CD8 antigen preservation in paraffin sections required critical optimal tissue handling. CD3 was more stable and was also demonstrated in tissue fixed in commercial formalin, glutaraldehyde, and Bouin's fluid when fixation and processing conditions were optimized for pH and temperature. Of the fixation additives studied, polyethylene glycol and several potassium and magnesium salts enhanced immunostaining, whereas calcium chloride and lidocaine were deleterious.
In vivo use of OKT3 monoclonal antibodies in recipients of renal allografts]	The OKT3 monoclonal antibody, that is specific for all mature human T lymphocytes represents a potent immunosuppressant when injected in vivo. The OKT3 antibody has been administered to more than 500 renal allograft recipients either to treat or prevent acute rejection episodes. OKT3 exerts its immunosuppressive effect by inducing rapid and important T cell depletion following the first injection. Then, OKT3 mediates the antigenic modulation of its T cell target antigen a phenomenon that is also related to the immunosuppressive effect exerted by the monoclonal antibody. The principal side effect observed following OKT3 administration, particularly if the antibody is injected alone, is the xenosensitisation against the foreign protein. Essentially, two sorts of anti-OKT3 antibodies are produced that respectively recognize the isotypic and the idiotypic determinants of the antibody molecule. The different strategies that may be envisaged to overcome this important side effect, that may totally neutralize the therapeutic effectiveness of OKT3 are discussed in detail.
MHC antigen expression in sequential biopsies from cardiac transplant patients--correlation with rejection.	Class I induction on the myocardium of transplanted heart was investigated with regard to its temporal relationship to rejection episodes, how it is affected by anti-rejection therapy and whether it is dependent upon the presence of a T cell infiltrate in the biopsy. Sequential cardiac biopsies (total 114) from 11 patients from the time of transplant to 1 year after transplant were studied using immunocytochemical techniques. The effect of different immunosuppressive regimens on MHC antigen expression was also studied. All the biopsies diagnosed as showing rejection for the first time showed induction of Class 1 on the myocardium with 79% during subsequent rejection episodes. Class I induction was associated with a leucocyte infiltrate, not always containing T cells, and disappeared in 47% of biopsies taken 3-4 weeks after treatment with steroids and/or ATG. Increased expression of Class II, in particular DQ antigens on interstitial structures, paralleled Class 1 induction. MHC antigen expression returned to normal in 8/9 patients, at 1 year after transplant. Different immunosuppressive regimens affected the number of biopsies showing Class 1 induction on the myocardium. Our results suggest that in clinical heart transplantation class I induction is related to the rejection process.
Modulation of graft versus host disease by in vitro incubation of donor cells with deoxycoformycin and deoxyadenosine]	The combination of deoxycoformycin and deoxyadenosine was investigated for its capability to deplete T-cells from bone marrow and spleen cells and for its effect on GVHD in MHC-mismatched transplantation in rats. In vitro incubation with DCF/dADO for 18-20 hours resulted in significant but incomplete T-cell depletion without toxicity towards CFU-M. This corresponded with a lower incidence and a modification of GVHD following transplantation of such treated cells into MHC-incompatible recipient rats. However, GVHD could not be completely prevented by the in vitro treatment of donor cells.
The HPRT mutant T-cell assays for human mutagenicity monitoring.	Both T-cell assays are useful for human mutagenicity monitoring. The autoradiographic assay is inexpensive, relatively short term and easily applicable to population studies. The clonal assay will provide information on the nature of spontaneous mutation in vivo and, by analysis of mutational spectra, may yield insights into induced mutational events. In addition to the characterizations noted above, we have recently shown that analysis of in vivo derived hprt mutant T-cell colonies with cDNA probes for the and T-cell receptor genes allows quantification of the number of in vivo hprt mutations that give rise to an observed collection of mutants. (Nicklas, et. al, 1985, Albertini et. al 1985b) Refinements of this assay should increase its applicability for population studies. The utility of both assays should be better defined by studying the relationship between their respective end-points. Both assays yield similar frequencies of TGr cells in individuals (Albertini, 1985), and may thus be equivalent. Future studies should answer this question.
Development of a model system for analysing graft-versus-host-mediated immune suppression.	F1 hybrid mice injected with parental T lymphocytes undergo a graft-versus-host (GvH) reaction, one of the consequences being a highly depressed cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) potential against alloantigens and modified self antigens. In the present study we demonstrate that concanavalin A (Con A) can be used for analysing such GvH-mediated immune suppression. Thus, both alloantigen- and Con A-induced responses were reduced by approximately 80% in F1 suppressed (F1s) animals as compared to F1 control (F1c) mice. Although interleukin 2 (IL-2) production was found to be reduced by approximately 50% it did not account for the reduced CTL response in F1s mice. The addition of IL-2 to Con A-stimulated F1s spleen cell cultures did not reconstitute the response. The results suggest that the suppressive mechanism operates by preventing a large fraction of Lyt-2+ CTL precursors from acquiring IL-2 reactivity. However, a small fraction of CTL precursors, escaped the suppression and differentiated into effector CTL.
Assessment of the immune status of chronic bronchitis patients in the remission phase during prophylactic treatment with levamisole and staphylococcal vaccine]	The work presents the results of the study of the immune status in 18 patients with chronic bronchitis at the stage of remission, subjected to prolonged prophylactic treatment with the inhalations of levamisole solution, and in 16 patients receiving the inhalations of staphylococcal vaccine. These results indicate that the inhalations of levamisole have proved to be more effective than the inhalations of staphylococcal vaccine. In patients treated with levamisole an essential decrease in the ratio of theophylline-resistant to theophylline-sensitive E-rosette-forming lymphocytes has been noted. The determination of the sensitivity of lymphocytes and neutrophils to incubation with levamisole by means of the rosette-formation test makes it possible to prognosticate, taking into account the initial level of spontaneous E-rosette formation of these cells, the effectiveness of the prophylactic treatment of patients with chronic bronchitis. The determination of the sensitivity of the cells to incubation with staphylococcal toxoid is ineffective for the prognostication of the result of the treatment of such patients with staphylococcal vaccine.
Nuclei of lymphocytes of the T- and B-cell lines during normal embryogenesis and after treatment with hydrocortisone (morphometric and probabilistic-statistical parameters)]	Lymphoid cells of the thymus and of the Fabricius bursa have been studied in 18-day-old chick embryos, normal and after injection of hydrocortisone on the 11th day of embryogenesis. By means of optical-structural computer analysis, the complex of morphometric and probability-statistic parameters of the nuclei in the lymphocytes are estimated: area of the nuclei, optical density of chromatin, asymmetry coefficient and variance. Normal T-lymphocytes possess less density of the nuclei, greater optical density of chromatin, greater values of negative asymmetry. The complex of these parameters can be used for identification of visually similar lymphoid cells of T- and B-lines. Under hydrocortisone effect structural changes of the nuclei in the thymus and Fabricius bursa lymphocytes of the chick embryo are uniform: increase in the area of the nuclei, decrease in optical density of chromatin, the asymmetry coefficient becomes positive.
Treatment of resting T lymphocytes with interferon-alpha/beta augments their proliferative response to activation signals delivered through their surface Ly-6 antigen.	Although the exact significance of Ly-6 antigens is unknown, recent evidence suggests they may provide an important alternative pathway for murine T-cell activation. Thus, Shevach et al. (1986, Fed. Proc. 45, 1131) discovered that cross-linking of Ly-6 antigens on the cell surface acts in concert with phorbol myristate acetate to trigger mitogenesis in T cells. Previously, we reported that surface expression of Ly-6 antigens on T cells is markedly increased following exposure to interferon-alpha/beta (IFN-alpha/beta). The purpose of the present work was to determine the effect of IFN-induced Ly-6 enhancement on Ly-6-mediated T-cell stimulation. Purified T cells were incubated in vitro for 1-27 hr with various doses (10-10(4) units/ml) of IFN-alpha/beta. This was found to result in various degrees of augmentation of the proliferative responses of these T cells to stimulation through their Ly-6 antigen. Surprisingly, while maximal enhancement of Ly-6 expression occurred only after the longest pulses with the highest IFN concentrations, treatment with as little as 100 units IFN/ml for 12 hr was sufficient to induce a dramatic (25-fold) and nearly maximal enhancement of proliferation. This high sensitivity to IFN-alpha/beta of the Ly-6 pathway of T-cell activation led us to speculate that this pathway may play a role in the immunomodulatory activities of IFN-alpha/beta.
Augmentation of interleukin-2 release by cytochalasins.	Augmentation of mitogen-induced release of the T cell lymphokine interleukin-2 (IL-2) occurred using several cytochalasins in coculture with a T cell lymphoma line (JM) or with purified T cells. When added concurrently with mitogen, cytochalasins had no apparent negative effect either on the ability of mitogen to signal IL-2 production or on the total amount produced. Use of cytochalasins that affect submembranous actin in peripheral lymphocytes established a link between cytoskeletal alterations and lymphokine release, although direct membrane perturbation cannot be excluded. These data indicate that an intracellular pool of IL-2 may accumulate in both T cell lines and in purified peripheral T cells and that maintenance of that pool may be affected by alterations of the cytoskeletal elements. Cytochalasins not only increased IL-2 release, but could substitute for phorbol myristic acetate (PMA) in supporting mitogen-signaled IL-2 production. We interpret these data also to indicate that cytoskeletal attachment to the surface molecules that signal IL-2 production is not needed for the activation.
Immunopotentiation by SGP and Quil A. II. Identification of responding cell populations.	The adjuvants SGP (a starch-acrylamide polymer) and Quil A (purified saponin) were shown to markedly augment antibody responses to T-independent (TI) antigens, suggesting that their adjuvant effects may be at least partially mediated through B cells. The ability of both adjuvants to augment primary responses to trinitrophenyl (TNP)-Ficoll (TI-2 antigen) in athymic nude mice further suggested these adjuvants affect B cells. SGP, however, did not induce a response to the T-dependent (TD) antigen dinitrophenyl-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (DNP-KLH) in athymic nude mice, indicating it was unable to replace the requirement for T-helper cells for responses to TD antigens. Responses to TNP-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were augmented by SGP in CBA/N X Balb/c immune defective (xid) mice. However, SGP was unable to induce a response to TNP-Ficoll in xid mice. The SGP and Quil A augmented responses to TNP-Ficoll were completely inhibited by the mitotic inhibitor, Velban, indicating that SGP and Quil A increased the plaque-forming cell (PFC) response primarily by stimulating cell proliferation, and not by recruitment of antigen-reactive cells. The effects of the adjuvants on secondary responses were investigated using adoptive transfer experiments. SGP and A1(OH)3 both increased the induction of hapten-specific memory B cells in mice primed with DNP-KLH. SGP, Quil A, and A1(OH)3 also increased priming of carrier specific T cells. Priming of memory B cells with DNP-KLH and either A1(OH)3 or SGP was prevented when T cells were depleted with anti-lymphocyte serum (ALS) at the time of antigen priming, indicating that the augmentation of memory B-cell priming by SGP and A1(OH)3 was dependent on the presence of functional T cells. SGP and Quil A were both unable to augment memory cell induction to the TI antigen, TNP-Ficoll, even though both adjuvants markedly augmented primary IgM and IgG responses to this antigen. Based on these results, it is suggested that SGP and Quil A can mediate their adjuvant effects primarily by a direct or indirect effect on B cells although the adjuvants may also affect T cells to some extent.
Effect of splenopentin (SP-5) on the antibody formation in immunosuppressed mice.	Sublethally irradiated C57Bl/6 mice (whole body irradiation with 600 cGy) were treated with or without diacetyl splenopentin and compared for their capacity to produce antibodies against target sheep red blood cells. As demonstrated, mice treated with splenopentin produced antibodies earlier and in a higher level than animals untreated.
Immunological activities of muramyl peptides.	Muramyl peptides are endowed with numerous modulatory effects on the immune and nervous systems. Studies with synthetic muramyl dipeptide (MDP), the smallest unit of bacterial cell walls that can replace Mycobacteria in Freund's complete adjuvant, revealed that this glycopeptide can regulate several functions of cells involved in the immune response. The adjuvanticity of MDP and the MDP-induced activation of macrophages against tumors were found to be potentiated in vitro and in vivo with monoclonal anti-MDP antibodies. When used on immunoadsorbent columns, the anti-MDP antibodies removed the somnogenic and pyrogenic activities contained in supernatants of stimulated rabbit peritoneal macrophages. Based on these data a hypothesis is put forward to explain the immuno- and neuro-modulatory effects of muramyl peptides.
Flow cytometry analysis of DNA degradation in thymocytes of gamma-irradiated or hydrocortisone treated rats.	The pattern of DNA degradation in thymocytes of irradiated or hydrocortisone-treated rats has been studied by means of flow cytometry of the cells, treated with probes specifically bound to the AT or GC-pairs of DNA. It has been shown that the death of thymocytes is accompanied by a decrease in their DNA content. The main features of the occurrence and accumulation of cells with a DNA content less than the normal diploid level correspond with those of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation: such cells appear after a 1 hour lag-period, their accumulation is prevented by cycloheximide injection and is lower at 300 Gy than at doses of 10 to 30 Gy. At the same time, no increase in permeability of the cell membrane to ethidium bromide was observed up to the sixth hour after irradiation. Most of the thymocytes dying under the action of irradiation or hydrocortisone are in the G0 or G1 phases of the cell cycle. The method used allows detection of the cells with cleaved but not removed DNA.
The effect of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 on cell-mediated immunity in hemodialyzed patients.	The immunoregulatory effect of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha OHD3), a precursor form of active vitamin D3, was examined in hemodialyzed patients. Four weeks of oral administration of 0.5 micrograms/day 1 alpha OHD3 markedly enhanced the lymphoproliferative responses to mitogens without influencing lymphocyte counts or the ratios of lymphocyte subpopulations. In fact, these responses were nearly normal after treatment. These results suggest that deficiency of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 may play a role in the impairment of cellular immunity in hemodialyzed patients, and that administration of 1 alpha OHD3 may have therapeutic immunological benefit.
Alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone inhibits immunostimulatory and inflammatory actions of interleukin 1.	The ability of interleukin 1 (IL 1) to augment the proliferation of murine thymocytes in vitro was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by the neuropeptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha MSH). The minimal effective concentration of alpha MSH was 10(-11) M. Maximal effect occurred between 10(-8) and 10(-7) M, with diminishing effectiveness at higher concentrations. IL 1-induced production of prostaglandin E (PGE) by fibroblasts was also inhibited by alpha MSH with a biphasic dose response. The minimal effective concentration was 10(-11) M, and maximum effect was achieved at 10(-10) M. alpha MSH appeared to affect the interaction of IL 1 with its target cells in a specific manner, because it did not inhibit basal mitogen-induced thymocyte proliferation or IL 2-induced proliferation of a cytotoxic T lymphocyte line. Furthermore, production of IL 1 by endotoxin-stimulated monocytes was not affected by alpha MSH. An analog of alpha MSH (Nle4, D-Phe7 alpha MSH), which is highly potent in other melanotropin-sensitive systems, did not affect the action of IL 1 on thymocytes, suggesting that the immunomodulatory effects of alpha MSH may not be mediated by the classic melanocyte alpha MSH receptor. The influence of alpha MSH on thymocytes and fibroblasts suggests that alpha MSH is an endogenous antagonist of IL 1, perhaps important for limiting inflammatory damage to host tissues.
The mitogenic activity of staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB): a monovalent T cell mitogen that stimulates cytolytic T lymphocytes but cannot mediate their lytic interaction.	Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), a monovalent T cell mitogen and inducer of T suppressor cells, was found to be a potent polyclonal activator of cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) effective against concanavalin A (Con A)-treated target cells. In addition to polyclonal stimulation of CTL, SEB could reactivate "memory" CTL, alloimmunized 60 to 90 days earlier, into "secondary" CTL detectable as early as 24 hr after onset of stimulation and specific for the original priming target cells. Optimal cytolytic activity was induced at 0.5 to 10 micrograms/ml SEB; optimal priming time was 3 days, correlating well with the proliferative activity and morphologic transformation of small lymphocytes into large T lymphoblasts. Long-term cultures of splenocytes, stimulated by SEB, continued to express high cytolytic activity. It is noteworthy that although SEB and Con A are comparable CTL inducers, SEB, unlike Con A, is an ineffective mediator of nonspecific, CTL/target cell interactions. To the best of our knowledge this is the first example of a CTL inducer unable to mediate CTL-target interaction and lysis. The latter observations suggests that different receptors are involved in CTL activation and in CTL-target interaction resulting in lysis.
Age-related RNA polymerase I activity in isolated nuclei of PHA stimulated human lymphocytes.	In order to extend to the immune system previous findings that there is an age-related loss of hybridizability of the genes for ribosomal RNA (rRNA) in several tissues of mice, dogs and humans, we have investigated the function of the genes for rRNA in human T lymphocytes. These cells were chosen because they show a substantial decline in function with age, greater than that of other components of the immune system. rRNA synthesis was determined by measuring tritiated-UTP incorporation into acid precipitable counts as a result of the action of RNA polymerase I in nuclei isolated from phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulated peripheral-blood lymphocytes from 24 young adult and old human donors. The number of PHA-responsive cells from each donor was determined by counting grains in autoradiographs after a pulse of tritiated-uridine had been administered to them. The aggregate PHA induced synthesis of rRNA in the cultures decreased as a function of the age of the donor. However, the number of PHA-responsive cells also dropped with age. When the data are normalized for the number of PHA-responsive cells in each culture, it appears that rRNA synthesis per PHA-responding cell does not significantly decline with age, even though there is a suggestion of a decrease after corrections are made. On the average, differences between individuals of the same age group were as great or greater than age-related differences.
Effects of cyclosporin A on autoimmune disease in MRL/1 and BXSB mice.	MRL/1 and BXSB mice were treated daily with cyclosporin A (CyA) in an oral dose of 25 mg/kg body weight. With this dose, blood levels within the therapeutic range were obtained. In normal mice CyA in this dose significantly prolonged the survival of an H-2 incompatible skin graft, and suppressed delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH). It had no influence on the magnitude of a primary antibody response. Autoimmune mice were treated from 6 to 22 weeks of age. CyA treatment did not alter significantly the anti-DNA and anti-IgG autoantibody levels in either strain compared with control mice, who received olive oil. There was a slight but significant increase in serum IgG levels in CyA-treated MRL/1 mice. Clinical signs of glomerulonephritis (decreased kidney function and albuminuria), and glomerular proliferation were not altered by CyA treatment in either strain. The amount of mesangial IgG deposits was reduced in CyA-treated MRL/1 mice, and remained unchanged in BXSB mice. The extent of the interstitial and perivascular infiltrates and the frequency and severity of necrotizing arteritis in the kidneys of MRL/1 mice were reduced by CyA treatment. The most prominent effect of CyA was an evident reduction in lymphoproliferation in MRL/1 mice. Mortality was not reduced by CyA treatment in MRL/1 and BXSB mice.
Differential effects of polyadenylic: polyuridylic acid and lipopolysaccharide on the generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes.	In a mixed leukocyte culture (MLC) reaction of allogenic mouse spleen cells differing for H-2K or H-2D, only a weak cytotoxic response is generated. This cytotoxic response is augmented significantly if bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), 5 microgram/ml, or polyadenylic acid (poly A):polyuridylic acid (poly U), 20 microgram/ml, is present in the culture. The cytotoxic cells generated in the presence of these two agents are specific for sensitizing H-2K or H-2D antigen. Two lines of evidence suggest that these two agents exert their effect at different steps in the development of cytotoxic lymphocytes: (a) the effect of poly A:U depends on the presence of adherent cells, whereas the effect of LPS is independent of the presence of adherent cells and (b) LPS promotes the development of cytotoxic cells when ultraviolet light-treated stimulating cells are used in the MLC whereas poly A:U does not.
Differential regulation of colony-stimulating factors and interleukin 2 production by cyclosporin A.	Stimulation of T lymphocytes with mitogens or antigens is followed by proliferation and lymphokine production. Although cyclosporin A (CsA), an immunosuppressive drug, has been shown to inhibit the production of certain lymphokines, including interleukin 2 (IL-2), interleukin 3 (IL-3), and gamma-interferon, its effect on the production of granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) has not been evaluated. In the current study, concanavalin A (Con A)-stimulated murine spleen cells secreted GM-CSF, IL-3, and IL-2, and in the presence of CsA (0.1-1.0 micrograms/ml), IL-2 and IL-3 activities were inhibited. In contrast, significant activity was detected when the CsA-treated culture supernatants were assayed on a cell line that is dependent on GM-CSF and/or IL-3. Similar CsA-resistant activity was observed when the EL-4 thymoma cells were stimulated with a phorbol ester [phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)] in the presence of CsA. The activity resistant to CsA was identified as GM-CSF by the ability of specific antibodies against murine recombinant GM-CSF to neutralize its activity. These findings indicate that GM-CSF, in contrast to IL-2 and IL-3, was not inhibited by CsA. In additional experiments, transfer blot of poly(A)+ RNA isolated from PMA-induced EL-4 cells in the presence or the absence of CsA was hybridized with GM-CSF and IL-2 cDNA probes. Expression of the GM-CSF gene in EL-4 cells was detected independent of CsA, whereas CsA inhibited the expression of the IL-2 gene. The present data show that production of IL-2 and IL-3, but not that of GM-CSF, is inhibited by CsA and suggest a differential control mechanism for lymphokine synthesis in T lymphocytes.
Wheat germ agglutinin is mitogenic, nonmitogenic and anti-mitogenic for human lymphocytes.	Wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) was found to stimulate DNA synthesis in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells at relatively low concentrations and to inhibit DNA synthesis at higher concentrations. Both actions were inhibited by oligomers of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. Significant mitogenic activity was dependent on the use of human (as opposed to fetal calf) serum to supplement the culture medium. Purified T cells responded to WGA very weakly and the incorporation of thymidine into non-T cells in response to WGA was less than the lectin-free control. The full ability of T cells to respond to WGA was restored by the addition of monocytes, but not by any other blood cells. Interleukin 2 partially restored the ability of T cells to respond to WGA; interleukin 1 was less effective. WGA displayed a strong synergistic action with the tumour promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-13-acetate (TPA), in stimulating DNA synthesis in separated T (but not non-T) cell fractions, and in unfractioned mononuclear cells. These results reconcile most of the conflicting reports in the literature concerning the interaction of WGA with human lymphocytes.
The tumor promoter tetradecanoyl-phorbol-acetate (TPA) elicits the redistribution of zinc in subcellular fractions of rabbit thymocytes measured by X-ray fluorescence.	Prolonged (90 minutes) incubation with tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) elicits the redistribution of zinc from the nuclear fraction and mitochondria to the cytosol and microsomes in rabbit thymocytes. The zinc redistribution might play a role in the TPA-caused desensitization of T lymphocytes towards calcium and in the TPA-induced inhibition of Gl----S phase transition and cytotoxicity of T lymphocytes.
Phospholipid-metabolism of a stimulated murine T cell clone.	The release of IP3 and the incorporation of arachidonic acid into phospholipids was measured in a stimulated murine alloantigen-specific, non-cytolytic T cell clone. While Concanavalin A provoked a sharp increase in IP3, Interleukin 2 had no effect on the production of IP3. An increased reacylation of phospholipids with arachidonic acid was seen within the first 4 hours after addition of Concanavalin A, while an effect upon Interleukin 2 was only observed after 8 hours of incubation with Interleukin 2. A similar retarded response to Interleukin 2 was observed in proliferation experiments. These retarded cell responses may be due to changed properties of IL 2 receptors induced by IL 2.
Changes in delayed hypersensitivity reaction in mice exposed to O3.	BALB/c mice were continuously exposed to 0.8 ppm O3 for 1, 3, 7, and 14 days. Ozone exposure suppressed the delayed hypersensitivity (DH) reaction to sheep red blood cells (SRBC). The maximum effect was seen after 7 days of exposure. To estimate the suppression of the DH reaction by O3 exposure, the numbers of lymphocytes in thymus and blood of exposed mice were compared with those of control mice. A decrease in the numbers of lymphocytes in both thymus and blood was observed in O3-exposed mice. The percentage of T and B lymphocytes in blood of exposed mice was the same as that in blood of control mice. These results suggest that 0.8 ppm O3 exposure affects the T lymphocytes required for DH reactions.
Assessment of the effect of prospidin and cyclophosphane on the indices of the T and B immune responses in vitro]	Prospidin was shown to produce a decrease of receptors on T- and B-lymphocytes and T-subpopulations, to inhibit migration of leucocytes under the influence of the antigenic stimulus, to reduce the cytopathic activity of lymphocytes and the level of secreted immunoglobulins of the main classes. The degree of prospidin immunodepressive effect is compared with that of cyclophosphane.
Potentiation of interleukin-2 activity by levamisole and imidazole.	Levamisole, a known antihelminthic drug, was able to affect IL-2 dependent proliferation of several T lymphocyte clones. Although levamisole did not replace IL-2 and had no effect at saturating IL-2 concentrations, it reduced by 2- to 4-fold the dose of IL-2 required to give 50% of the maximal DNA synthesis, the optimal concentration of levamisole being between 1 to 3 X 10(-4) M. This effect of levamisole was not due to an alteration of the kinetics of thymidine incorporation. Imidazole and other imidazole ring containing compounds, but not thiol-containing compounds, had similar effects to those of levamisole, suggesting a role of the imidazole ring in the potentiation of IL-2 activity.
Some aspects of "deep lung" cellular immunity in chronic bronchitis before and after therapy with tiopronin.	Fifteen patients suffering from obstructive chronic bronchopneumonia in a clinical steady-state phase received 0.6 g of tiopronin once a day during 10 days per os. The lymphocyte subsets (OKT3, OKT4 and OKT8) have been identified in peripheral blood and in bronchoalveolar lavage liquid (BAL) before and after treatment and phagocytosis has been evaluated in pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAM) (phagocytosis index, phagocytosis percentage, superoxide-ion production). A highly significant improvement in the phagocytosis process has been observed in the PAM, as well as an increase in the number of lymphocytes T3 and in the T4/T8 ratio (due to an increase in T4 lymphocytes) in the BAL; while in peripheral blood T3 and T4 lymphocytes and the T4/T8 ratio only showed a nonsignificant increase after treatment. The possible mechanisms on which these variations are based have been investigated.
Lymphocyte proliferation to antigen E: demonstration of the restriction of antigen E-specific T cells to ragweed-allergic donors.	Allergic sensitivity to ragweed is common among atopic individuals in North America and can be associated with symptoms of seasonal hay fever and increased airway reactivity in asthma. This sensitivity is mediated by IgE antibody to ragweed antigens that in turn is presumed to be the product of B-lymphocytes regulated by various T cell subsets. Proliferation in vitro by lymphocytes obtained from individuals allergic to ragweed and cultured in the presence of ragweed antigen E (AgE) has been repeatedly described, but a comprehensive study of this proliferation has questioned the specificity of this response. We have examined this question and found that in the first week of culture, the specific lymphocyte proliferation to AgE may be obscured by high background and mitogen-like proliferation. However, by carrying the cells for a longer period of time in culture and providing a second in vitro boost with AgE, specific proliferation could be clearly documented. Lymphocytes from atopic ragweed-allergic donors proliferated at levels 20 to 50 times beyond background in the presence of AgE. Cells from nonragweed-allergic donors (either nonatopic or atopic) did not do so. The AgE-responsive cells could be expanded in culture and demonstrated to be T cells. Moreover, AgE-responsive T cells could only be cloned from AgE-allergic donors and, after expansion and subcloning, demonstrated to respond to AgE but not partially purified dust mite antigen. In contrast, a clone of T cells from a dust mite-sensitive individual proliferated in response to the dust mite antigen but not AgE.
Initial characterization of humoral IL-2 response inhibition following donor-specific transfusions under azathioprine immunosuppression.	A previous study indicated that noncompetitive humoral inhibition of IL-2-induced proliferation was a frequent consequence of donor-specific transfusions under azathioprine immunosuppression. In this report, we present our initial characterization of the mode of action and nature of this humoral activity. A direct role for azathioprine seems unlikely since its removal from post-DST+A sera did not eliminate inhibition, nor did addition of azathioprine to normal sera mimic the inhibition by post-DST+A sera. Inhibition of the proliferative response to IL-2 was observed on an individual cell basis after IL-2 stimulation that did not involve a direct effect on DNA synthesis. Inhibition appeared to require optimal IL-2 receptor expression as well as optimal doses of IL-2, suggesting that inhibition is manifested at the postreceptor level. Inhibition could not be removed by reconstitution with normal sera, indicating that post-DST+A sera were not deficient in a nominal serum component, which is necessary for optimal proliferation. The inhibitory activity in post-DST+A sera was sensitive to chemical reduction and heat. Inhibition of the response to IL-2 was readily demonstrated using IL-2 responsive human or murine T lymphocytes. However, post-DST+A serum also inhibited proliferation of one of two IL-2 independent cell lines. These results suggest that the inhibitory activity in post-DST+A plasma/serum may be due to the induction of an inhibitor of cell proliferation that is either lacking or "deficient" in normal serum.
The problem of immune antimutagenic control in cytogenetic damage induced by infectious processes]	The injection of streptolysin-0 into the cultures of human fibroblasts (HF) reliably increased the number of cells with cytogenetic aberrations. The injection of non-immune autologous T-lymphocytes decreased the number of aneuploid HF to the intact state. Homologous lymphocytes, in contrast to autologous T-lymphocytes, had no effect on the level of cytogenetic damaged cells.
Plasma lipoproteins and transferrin regulate the proliferation of a continuous T lymphocyte cell line.	Lipoproteins of hydrated densities less than 1.063 g/ml, very low density (VLDL) and low density (LDL) lipoproteins, could both enhance and suppress the proliferation of T lymphocyte cell lines. Enhancement and suppression were dependent on lipoprotein and transferrin concentrations. Enhancement occurred at low lipoprotein and high transferrin; suppression, at high lipoprotein and low transferrin. Lipoprotein suppression required a constituent of cell-conditioned medium as evidenced by the fact that lipoproteins did not suppress the replicative response of the IL-2-dependent murine cell line CTLL-2 to purified IL-2 but could suppress the response to cell-conditioned medium IL-2. For lipoprotein suppression and its relief by transferrin, both growth-regulating factors were required early in the cell cycle, suggesting that events important to progression through G1 are influenced. The data establish that the interplay between plasma lipoproteins, transferrin, and an unknown constituent of cell-conditioned medium can regulate the proliferation of T lymphocytes.
Radiation sensitivity of T-lymphocytes grown with recombinant human interleukin-2.	gamma-Ray and UV sensitivities of phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated T-lymphocytes were examined in the presence of the recombinant human interleukin-2 (IL-2). D0 values for the survival curves after gamma-irradiation varied from 0.90 to 1.25 Gy, and were comparable to those reported for human fibroblast cells. By fractionated exposure of gamma-rays, T-lymphocytes were shown to have the repair capacity for the sublethal damage. UV-survival curves yielded D0 of 6.5 J/m2 for T-lymphocytes from normal donors. T-Lymphocytes from a xeroderma pigmentosum patient with extremely low excision repair were markedly hypersensitive to UV (D0, 1.4 J/m2). T-Lymphocytes may be used to detect individuals who are sensitive to radiation or chemicals, and this method takes less time than that using fibroblast cells.
Accessory cell functions of dendritic cells and macrophages in the thymic T-cell response to Con A.	Accessory cell (A cell) functions of splenic dendritic cells (DC) and peritoneal macrophages (M phi) were investigated in the Con A-stimulated proliferative response of thymic T cells. DC were more efficient as A cells than M phi in respect of their necessary cell numbers, Con A dose and culture period required for optimal response. Con A-pulsed T cells proliferated with the aid of lymphocyte activating factor(s) (LAF) derived from M phi, even in the apparent absence of A cells. Con A-pulsed M phi were superior to unpulsed M phi in the secretion of LAF to induce a high response of Con A-pulsed T cells. A cell activity of M phi in different preparations appeared to parallel the ability to secrete LAF, and was totally abolished by fixation of M phi with paraformaldehyde. The fixation of DC, however, resulted in only a partial reduction of the A cell activity. These results argue that both DC and M phi can serve as A cells in the T-cell response to Con A, but that the mechanism to manifest A cell activity is somewhat different between DC and M phi.
Flavonoids protect against T-2 mycotoxins both in vitro and in vivo.	Quercetin was able to reduce the cytotoxic effect of T-2 mycotoxin on cultured murine thymocytes. When given to mice immediately before challenge with T-2 mycotoxins, quercetin significantly reduced mortality.
Recombinant hydrophilic region of murine retroviral protein p15E inhibits stimulated T-lymphocyte proliferation.	Retroviral envelope protein p15E and antigenically related proteins have been implicated as potential mediators of immune dysfunction associated with retroviral infections and with neoplasia. Due to its extreme hydrophobicity, purified p15E has not been available in a nondenatured form or in sufficient quantities for detailed studies on the mechanisms of its immunosuppressive effects. Therefore, a plasmid was constructed to direct the synthesis in Escherichia coli of the major hydrophilic region of murine p15E. The purified recombinant p15E derivative, soluble under physiological conditions, inhibited by up to 60% (EC50 = 7.5 nM) the anti-CD3-driven proliferation of human T lymphocytes but had no effect on the proliferation of the transformed T-cell line Jurkat. The recombinant protein also inhibited, by up to an average of 92% (EC50 = 2.1 microM), the proliferation of the murine T-cell line CTLL-2. These data (i) provide direct evidence that a retroviral envelope protein can itself inhibit lymphoproliferative function and (ii) map the inhibitory activity to a specific region of p15E. The availability of soluble, recombinant p15E should facilitate studies of the pathogenesis of the immunosuppression accompanying retroviral infections and neoplastic diseases.
B-cell-stimulatory factor 2 (beta 2 interferon) functions as a second signal for interleukin 2 production by mature murine T cells.	Purified peripheral murine T cells, in the presence of concanavalin A, can be activated to produce interleukin 2 (IL-2) through stimulation either with a previously described murine lymphokine designated T cell-activating factor (TAF) or with a cloned human lymphokine that has been called beta 2 interferon, B-cell-stimulatory factor 2, hybridoma growth factor, inducible 26-kDa protein, or hematopoietic colony-stimulating factor 309 by different investigators. We and others propose the designation interleukin 6 (IL-6) for the latter molecule. Our experiments demonstrate that either murine TAF or human IL-6 can restore the ability of purified T cells to proliferate in response to Con A or antibodies against the T-cell antigen receptor. Most if not all of the proliferation can be blocked by antibodies against the alpha chain of the IL-2 receptor. Furthermore, highly purified CD8- T cells can be activated by IL-6 in the presence of Con A to secrete IL-2. We propose that IL-6 and murine TAF are important "second signals" in primary antigen-receptor-dependent T-cell activation. Whether or not murine TAF is a homologue of human IL-6 remains to be determined.
Effects of dexamethasone on selected parameters of the bovine immune system.	The synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone, has been used by investigators studying bovine immune mechanisms to either exacerbate infectious processes or stimulate stress-induced steroid-influenced immunosuppression. Considerable differences exist in the literature concerning the effect of dexamethasone on the bovine immune response. The purpose of our study was to clarify the reported effects of dexamethasone on bovine T-lymphocyte function. Therefore, we designed experiments to evaluate cellular and humoral aspects of the bovine immune response under the influence of dexamethasone. The experiments took into consideration the pharmacokinetics of dexamethasone and optimal and suboptimal doses of selected mitogens. The data suggest little variation in hematological parameters that occurred with the administration of dexamethasone. Leukocyte counts were slightly elevated at two observations, and this was believed to be the result of an increase in peripheral blood neutrophils. T-lymphocytes (erythrocyte rosetting) were not selectively depleted. However, suppression of T-lymphocyte function was noted, particularly in response to suboptimum doses of phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) and Concanaval in A (Con A). Antibody production to the T-dependent antigen, KLH, was suppressed in those animals receiving dexamethasone. These data suggest that the immunosuppressive effect of dexamethasone in the bovine is dependent upon the dose of dexamethasone administered, the pharmacological level of dexamethasone in vivo, physiological adaptation of the host, mitogen dose used in evaluation, and the time of evaluation post drug administration. The study points out the importance of considering these variables when interpreting the effects of dexamethasone on the bovine immune response.
Changes in the blood immunological indices of newborn infants as affected by T-activin in vitro]	T-activin, introduced into the culture of mononuclear cells obtained from the blood of healthy newborn infants, does not induce any essential changes in the levels of E-, Ea- and EAC-rosette-forming cells. An overwhelming majority of healthy infants has shown a decrease in the functional activity of lymphocytes in the blast transformation test in response to the optimal dose of ConA and an increase in their functional activity in response to the suboptimal dose of this mitogen. After stimulation with phytohemagglutinin, both the increase of the stimulation index and its decrease have been observed in an equal number of cases. The introduction of the preparation into the culture of mononuclear blood cells isolated from newborn infants with sepsis leads to a considerable increase in the detection rate of Ea-rosette-forming cells with a tendency to an increase in that of E- and EAC-rosette-forming cells. The final values of the stimulation indexes, no matter what the mitogens used, are in conformity with the values characteristic of the normal parameters for healthy newborns, due to a specific pattern of changes in the T-lymphocyte functional activity in the blast-transformation test.
Modifications of the thymus and splenic thymic dependent zones after in utero exposure to phenytoin: qualitative and quantitative analysis in C3H mice.	Pregnant female mice were randomly distributed in two groups and received twice a day by gavage either 25 mg/kg Dilantin in 0.2 ml distilled water or 0.2 ml distilled water till full term. The offspring were sacrificed on day 5. In the exposed group, the thymic cortex was reduced with a low mitotic activity in the lymphoid population while reticuloepithelial tissue was enlarged; numerous interdigitated reticular cells accumulate at the cortico/medulla border. In the spleen, the white pulp was enlarged because of lymphocytes accumulation in the periarteriolar sheets. In these two organs, the relative number of Thyl-2+, Lyt 1+ and Lyt 2+ T cell subsets were also modified showing especially a decrease in the thymus and an increase in the spleen of the Lyt 1+ cells. Since at the same time the thymus and the spleen of the females which reproduced the neonates are quite unchanged, it is concluded that the developing immune system of the fetal mouse is more susceptible to diphenylhydantoin than the immune system of the adult. This raises the question of the reversibility of this in utero acquired immune impairment.
Therapeutic possibilities of thymopoietin fragments (TP3 and TP4) based on experimental animal models.	The effects of thymic hormones are focused on the induction of T-cell subpopulations and restoration of the reactivity of an impaired immune system. TP3 and TP4 (corresponding to thymopoietin 32-34 and 32-35) exert a thymic hormone substitution effect. These peptides elicit dissimilar quantitative and qualitative effects. The aim of the present experiments was to investigate: (a) the effect of thymopoietin fragments in mice with unbalanced immune systems caused by experimental manipulation; and (b) the ratio of target cells after treatment. The distribution of Thy1, Lyt1, Lyt2 positivity was determined in a direct complement mediated cytotoxicity test. Autoantibody production was measured by Coombs' test. A count of Lewis Lung Tumour (LLT) metastases was made after two weeks of inoculation. Groups of mice were thymectomized and/or injected with cyclophosphamide (CY) (240 mg/kg) 96 h before tumour cell inoculation. The number of LLT metastases was decreased by treatment with peptides (TP3 = 72, TP4 = 97, TP5[thymopoietin 32-36] = 83.1 in %) and immunosuppression produced by CY was partly restored. After thymectomy, however, only TP3 treatment caused a decreasing effect (97.4%) on CY immunotoxicity independently of thymectomy. Inhibition of autoantibody production was detected with TP3 (5-6 weeks earlier than in mice treated with TP5). The ratio of Thy1+ and Lyt2+ cells was increased by treatment with TP3 and TP4, but the ratio of Lyt1+ cells was decreased by application of TP5. After TP3 treatment of nude mice the Lyt1+/Lyt2+ ratio increased both in bone marrow and spleen. No effect of TP4 was observed on Lyt 1+ cells, but the number of Lyt2+ increased in bone marrow.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Assessment of salvage pathways utilized for incorporation of exogenous pyrimidine nucleosides into DNA of guinea pig lymphocytes stimulated by Con A.	The organization of specific pyrimidine pathways to channel various nucleoside precursors into DNA is poorly understood. We show that concanavalin A-stimulated guinea pig lymphocytes incorporate [3H]dThd, [3H]dCyd, [3H]dUrd, [3H]Cyd and [3H]Urd into DNA-thymines and DNA-cytosines in a highly conserved distribution pattern. DNA-thymines were labeled only by dThd and dUrd, while DNA-cytosines were labeled only by dCyd, Cyd and Urd. The kinetics for the incorporation of the [3H]nucleosides were essentially identical, indicating equivalent abilities to measure DNA synthesis. Pyrazofurin inhibition of the pyrimidine de novo synthetic pathway inhibited cell proliferation and the levels of [3H]nucleoside incorporation by approx. 50%, but did not alter restricted distribution of the [3H]nucleosides among DNA-thymines and DNA-cytosines. These findings indicate the absence of Cyd and dCMP deaminase salvage pathways and suggest either subcellular compartmentalization or differential regulation of ribonucleoside diphosphoreductase which permits reduction of CDP but not UDP.
Studies on the mechanism of stimulation of T cells by the Mycoplasma arthritidis-derived mitogen. Role of class II IE molecules.	A mitogen derived from the supernatant of broth cultures of Mycoplasma arthritidis (MAS-P) stimulates a proliferative response by normal, unprimed T cells and interleukin 2 production by some, but not all, T cell hybridomas. The response requires an IE-positive accessory cell (AC). The direct participation of IE, and not IA, in this system was confirmed by two sets of experiments. First, L cells transfected with IE, but not IA, provided effective AC function for both normal T cells and the T cell hybridoma DO-11.10. Second, we have taken a more direct approach by showing that purified IE incorporated in liposomes and used to coat glass beads can support the MAS-P response of the DO-11.10 T cell hybridoma in the absence of intact AC or other AC molecules. Although the receptor for IE-MAS-P has not been identified, we have eliminated from consideration two potential T cell recognition structures. Monoclonal antibody to the antigen-major histocompatibility complex specific receptor failed to inhibit the MAS-P response of DO-11.10 or the T cell line LBRM-33. Furthermore, the L3T4 molecule did not appear to be involved since an L3T4-negative variant of DO-11.10 responded well to the mitogen. In addition, we show that both Lyt-2-positive and L3T4-positive T cells respond to this class II-restricted stimulus. Thus, we postulate the existence of a non-T cell receptor, non-L3T4 receptor that recognizes MAS-P in association with a presumed nonpolymorphic region of IE.
T lymphocyte control of human eosinophilic granulopoiesis. Clonal analysis in an idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome.	The idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) comprises a heterogeneous group of disorders with unknown pathogenesis characterized by persistent peripheral blood and bone marrow eosinophilia and eosinophilic infiltrates of multiple organs leading to severe organ dysfunction. In the present study, T lymphocyte clones were randomly established from the blood of a patient with HES and propagated in culture with mitogen and interleukin 2. Whereas 28 of 29 clones were able to stimulate myeloid colony formation when co-cultured with normal bone marrow cells in a double-layer micro-agar culture system, one third of these clones preferentially stimulated pure eosinophil colonies (up to 98% of all colonies). This pattern differed markedly (p less than 0.001) from the pattern of release of hemopoietic factors by 126 T cell clones established from four other individuals. Eosinophil colony stimulation was due to the release of a lineage-specific eosinophilic colony-stimulating factor (Eo-CSF) by these clones after appropriate stimulation. Production of Eo-CSF in vitro was inhibited by hydrocortisone or cyclosporin A. All Eo-CSF-producing clones had the T4+8-phenotype and were capable of producing in addition interleukin 2 and interferon-gamma. Southern blot analysis of the T cell receptor beta-chain rearrangement of the Eo-CSF-producing clones showed a different rearrangement pattern for each clone. These studies suggest a reactive T cell-mediated eosinophilia as the pathogenetic mechanism in this case of HES and, for the first time, point to a biologic relevance of a lymphokine-induced stimulation of hemopoiesis.
Elimination of clonogenic malignant human T cells using monoclonal antibodies in combination with 2'-deoxycoformycin.	2'Deoxycoformycin (dCF) specifically inhibits adenosine deaminase (ADA) and causes selective cytotoxicity of normal and malignant T cells. In clinical trials, dCF caused rapid lysis of malignant T lymphoblasts. Although dCF has been associated with dose-limiting nonhematopoietic toxicities, myelosuppression has not been observed. Since dCF is relatively nontoxic to hematopoietic stem cells, we tested dCF for utility in the ex vivo purging of malignant T lymphoblasts from remission leukemic bone marrow for autologous bone marrow transplantation. We found that T lymphoblast cell lines were sensitive to dCF (plus deoxyadenosine [dAdo]) under conditions that did not ablate human hematopoietic colony-forming cells. Moreover, combined pharmacologic (dCF plus dAdo) and immunologic (anti-T cell monoclonal antibodies [McAb] plus complement) purging resulted in additive reduction in clonogenic T lymphoblasts. These results provide the basis for a clinical trial of bone marrow transplantation using combined pharmacologic/immunologic purging of T lymphoblasts from patients' harvested autologous marrow.
Cyclosporine A inhibits bone resorption in cultured neonatal mouse calvaria.	The effect of the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporine A (CsA) on the resorption of neonatal mouse calvaria was examined in vitro. CsA, at concentrations of 10(-7) to 3 X 10(-5) M, inhibited bone resorption produced by 10(-8) M parathyroid hormone, 3 U/ml of mouse recombinant interleukin-1,5 X 10(-7) M prostaglandin E2, 14 U/ml of thrombin, 5 micrograms/ml of bacterial lipopolysaccharide or 10(-9) M 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. The effects of CsA on resorption were maintained over 72 h of culture with parathyroid hormone or prostaglandin E2 with no evidence of "escape". Removal of CsA from the cultures resulted in recovery of the resorptive response after a 24-h delay. CsA did not affect thymidine incorporation into DNA in the calvaria. Our results demonstrate that CsA is a nonselective antiresorptive agent in bone, with actions that differ somewhat from those of calcitonin. The results confirm and extend our previous findings on effects of CsA in fetal rat limb bones, with the exception that the inhibitory effects of CsA were more rapidly and completely reversible in the limb bone system.
Nature of the spleen cell populations capable of releasing tumor enhancing factor.	Supernatants obtained from short-cultured spleen cells (SCS) from BALB/c mice bearing a syngeneic mammary transplanted tumor--S13--showed enhancing activity on tumor growth when inoculated into the foot pad of normal syngeneic mice 24 hr before injection of S13 tumor cells. The present work was designed to characterize the spleen cell population responsible for the releasing of the enhancing factor (EF) as long as the tumor grows (small tumor bearing mice--STBM--and large tumor bearing mice--LTBM). Pretreatment of spleen cells with anti-Thy 1.2 serum + C' and nylon-wool columns were utilized to separate cell populations and to characterize the cellular source of the enhancing activity in the spleens of STBM and LTBM. In this tumor system, evidence is presented for distinct enhancing cell population operating in the spleens of STBM and LTBM. In early stages of tumor development, the EF was found to be associated with T and non-T cells, whereas in advanced stages of tumor growth, this activity was found to be associated with only T cells.
Biological activities of lipopolysaccharide-like substance (LLS) extracted from Leptospira interrogans serovar canicola strain Moulton.	The biological activities of lipopolysaccharide-like substance (LLS) extracted from Leptospira interrogans serovar canicola strain Moulton by the hot phenol-water method were studied in mice. The addition of 12.5 micrograms/ml or more of LLS fraction increased the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into in vitro cultured spleen cells of C57BL/6 mice, while the activity of the LLS fraction was about 20 times weaker than that of Salmonella typhimurium lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Pretreatment of murine spleen cells with rabbit anti-mouse thymocyte antiserum did not diminish the mitogenic activity of leptospiral LLS, and the LLS could not increase the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into thymocytes, suggesting that LLS acts on a B-lymphocyte population of lymphocytes. When sheep erythrocytes and LLS fraction were injected intraperitoneally into BALB/c mice, LLS exhibited an enhancing effect on antibody response in vivo. However, lethal toxicity of the LLS fraction was about 500 times lower than that of LPS in C57BL/6 mice loaded with galactosamine. No antitumor activity of leptospiral LLS (250-1,000 micrograms/mouse) against the ascites form of Ehrlich carcinoma in ddY mice was observed. The biological activities of the LLS fraction from the organism were weaker than those of gram-negative bacterial LPS, suggesting that Leptospira possesses no typical LPS.
The effects of nickel on immune function in the rat.	The immunotoxic potential of NiCl2 was evaluated in Fischer 344 rats following a single intramuscular injection at doses ranging from 10 to 20 mg/kg. Twenty-four hours following treatment, selected cellular and humoral immune function parameters were examined. Significant (P less than 0.05) decreases in body weights were observed in rats injected with 15 and 20 mg/kg NiCl2 as were decreases in spleen weights of rats receiving 20 mg/kg. The lymphoproliferative responses of splenocytes to the T cell mitogens concanavalin A (Con A), phytohemagglutinin (PHA), the T and B cell mitogen pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and the B cell mitogen Salmonella typhimurium mitogen (STM) were not significantly different from controls. No significant differences were observed between control and Ni-treated rats in the primary antibody response to sheep red blood cells (SRBC). On the other hand, natural killer (NK) cell activity was significantly (P less than 0.05) suppressed in rats injected with 10, 15, or 20 mg/kg NiCl2. NK cell suppression was observed in both male and female rats and for both allogeneic W/Fu-G1 target cells as well as xenogeneic YAC-1 target cells. Ni-induced suppression of NK activity was transient, with levels returning to control values within three days following treatment. Ni-induced suppression of NK activity was also manifested by an increase in mortality of rats injected with MADB106 tumor cells. These results extend to a second species our earlier findings that Ni suppresses NK activity.
Influence of the antileukemic and anti-human immunodeficiency virus agent avarol on selected immune responses in vitro and in vivo.	The effect of the antileukemic and anti-HIV agent avarol on the lymphoid system was studied both in vitro and in vivo. Radioactively labelled avarol ([3H]-dihydroavarol) was found to accumulate in vitro in the cytoplasmic compartment primarily of T-lymphocytes and not of B-lymphocytes. Avarol increased significantly the IgG and IgM production by cultures of human lymphoid cells (unseparated) in vitro and slightly the number of plaque forming cells in vivo in spleen of mice. Moreover, a pretreatment of mice with avarol resulted in a higher [3H]-dThd incorporation rate in both macrophage-containing and macrophage-depleted lymphocyte cultures in vitro. The stimulatory influence of avarol on humoral immune responses is not accompanied by a change of the antibody-mediated hypersensitivity reaction, as measured by the Arthus reaction. No significant influence of avarol on the cellular immune system in vivo (rats or mice) was found, as taken from studies on delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions to sheep red blood cells and to oxazolone. The in vitro and animal data indicate that avarol combines useful properties (anti-HIV efficiency in vitro and augmentation of humoral immune responses) to consider it as a potential anti-AIDS agent.
Tgamma cells in systemic lupus erythematosus. Variation with disease activity.	Circulating T cells bearing receptors for the Fc portion of IgG (T gamma) were identified by sensitive immunofluorescent techniques with rabbit IgG b4 allotype/anti-b4 complexes. A twofold decrease in both proportion and absolute number of T gamma cells was found in patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) relative to values obtained during disease remission. The reduction in T gamma cells was most evident in patients with severe hypocomplementemia. A deficit of T gamma cells in active patients was not demonstrated. The percentage of total T cells rosetting with sheep erythrocytes was reduced in peripheral blood of most patients regardless of disease activity status, but particularly during SLE exacerbation. Cells lacking intrinsic surface immunoglobulin, IgG Fc receptors, and receptors for sheep erythrocytes were increased. These cells, operationally termed null, exhibited an inverse linear relationship with T cells that was not apparent in regression analyses performed against other lymphocyte subpopulations. Such differences were not found for B cells and IgG receptor-bearing non-B/non-T cells which were present in normal proportions in virtually all patients. The origin and functional significance of these unusual lymphocyte subpopulation abnormalities are discussed.
Immunologic monitoring of transplantation patients: study of the reactivity of cytotoxic precursor cells]	Proliferative and cytotoxic T-cell reactivity subsequent to in vitro stimulation by a lymphocyte pool were studied in ten patients with well-accepted cadaver renal allografts and eight healthy controls. Whereas the proliferative reactivity was about equal in both groups, the cytotoxic responsiveness was markedly reduced in the allograft recipients. We conclude from these results that immunosuppressive drugs as well as specific adaptation processes act preferentially on the cytotoxic precursor cell population.
Effects of warfarin administration on the immune response of mice.	Administration of warfarin to mice is shown to have little effect on the humoral immune response of these animals to sheep red blood cells (a thymus dependent antigen) or the trinitrophenyl hapten coupled to E. coli lipopolysaccharide (a thymus independent antigen). The ability of low doses of sheep red blood cells to prime T-cells in vivo for helper activity in the in vitro antibody-forming response to trinitrophenyl coupled to sheep red blood cells is also apparently unaffected. By contrast, delayed hypersensitivity responses, measured by foot pad swelling, are significantly stimulated by administration of the drug.
Inhibition and potentiation of T lymphocyte response to mitogens. Studies using two mitogenic stimuli simultaneously.	Rat thymocytes were stimulated with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), Concanavalin A (Con A), pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or with mixtures of two of these mitogens, added simultaneously to in vitro cultures. Four-five concentrations of first mitogen were matched with four-five concentrations of second mitogen, in all possible combinations. Synergistic effects were observed with LPS plus PHA and LPS plus PWM and inhibitory effects with PHA plus Con A and LPS plus Con A. The hypothesis is discussed that an inhibitory effects occurs when two mitogens react with identical or very similar receptors on the lymphocyte surface, while a synergistic effect is produced by two mitogens reacting with different receptors.
Levamisole augments the cytotoxic T-cell response depending on the dose of drugs and antigen administered.	The effects of levamisole on the immune of cytotoxic thymus-derived lymphocytes were studied. An optimum relative dose of antigen and and lavamisole appears to be crucial for levamisole to augment development of cytotoxic cells.
Generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vitro. I. Response of normal and immune mouse spleen cells in mixed leukocyte cultures.	Mouse cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) were generated in mixed leukocyte cultures (MLC) using spleen cells as responding cells and irradiated allogeneic spleen cells as stimulating cells. Cytotoxicity was assessed by a quantitative (51)Cr assay system and the relative frequency of CTL in individual cell populations was estimated from dose-response curves. Inclusion of 2-mercaptoethanol in the MLC medium resulted in a 20-40-fold increase in the relative number of CTL generated at the peak of the response. Under these culture conditions, cell-mediated cytotoxic activity was detectable in MLC populations as early as 48 h after the onset of the cultures. When spleen cells from mice immunized with allogeneic tumor cells 2-4 mo previously were cultured with irradiated spleen cells of the same alloantigenic specificity (MLC-Imm), it was found that the cell-mediated cytotoxic response was detectable earlier and reached higher levels than that observed in a primary MLC. At the peak of the response, MLC-Imm populations were observed to lyse up to 50% of the target cells within 3 h at a lymphocyte: target cell ratio of 0.3:1. Immunological and physical characterization of the effector cells generated in MLC-Imm indicated that they were medium to large-sized T lymphocytes. Altogether, these studies suggested the existence of an anamnestic cell-mediated cytotoxic response in MLC-Imm.
Evidence for the expression of Ia (H-2-associated) antigens on thymus-derived lymphocytes.	We have demonstrated in an anti-Ia serum the presence of specific antibodies reacting with T cells, as well as with B cells, using a highly sensitive dye exclusion test. This antiserum reacts with both spleen and lymph node in a characteristic biphasic titration curve killing up to 70% of these cells. It also reacts with cortisone-resistant thymocytes. The A.TH-alpha-A.TL serum can be absorbed with spleen, lymph node, cortisone-resistant thymus, or normal thymus cells. Further in vivo absorptions in BALB/c nude cannot remove all of the cytotoxic activity for normal BALB lymph node lymphocytes, while completely removing the activity for nude cells. A Thy-1 positive cell line derived from a C57Br leukemia is reactive with this anti-Ia serum.
Studies on mediator production by highly purified human T and B lymphocytes.	Highly purified populations of T and B lymphocytes obtained by affinity column separation were stimulated by antigen and their ability to produce two mediators, migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and lymphocyte mitogenic factor (LMF) was assessed. Both T- and B-cell populations made MIF; the production of MIF was antigen-specific using purified protein derivative of tuberculin, streptokinase-streptodornase, and Candida antigens. The MIF activity from both populations could not be attributed to antigen-antibody complexes as the inhibitory activity eluted from Sephadex G-100 columns in the same region corresponding to mol wt 23,000 daltons. Further studies indicate that the T cells producing MIF are proliferating cells whereas the B cells producing this mediator are not. In contrast, LMF was made only by T cells and not B cells when these populations were stimulated by antigen. The LMF induced the [(3)H]thymidine incorporation into both T and B cells obtained from donors lacking sensitivity to the antigens used to elicit the factor. Chromatographic studies indicate that LMF eluted from Sephadex G-100 in a fraction of mol wt 23,000 daltons where MIF is also found; however, since B cells produce MIF but not LMF, these two factors appear to be distinct from one another. Some of the implications of these findings are discussed. The explanation for the production or lack of production of MIF by lymphocytes obtained from patients with immunodeficiency disorders requires reinterpretation.
Long-term T-cell-mediated immunity to Epstein-Barr virus in renal-allograft recipients receiving cyclosporin A.	Peripheral-blood mononuclear cells from renal-allograft patients receiving cyclosporin A (CSA) were tested for their ability to produce T cells cytotoxic for EB-virus-infected B-cell targets in culture and compared with those from healthy seropositive subjects. Whereas in the control cultures the proliferating foci of EB-virus-transformed B cells regressed after 2 weeks, no such regression was seen in cultures from CSA-treated patients. These results indicate that patients receiving CSA cannot mount a cytotoxic response to EB-virus-infected B cells in vitro. It is suggested that suppression of memory-T-cell proliferation contributes to the high incidence of lymphomas in CSA-treated renal-allograft recipients.
Polyenzymatic activation of cellular hydrolases induced by interferon; its role in cytolysis and other cellular manifestations induced by interferon]	Interferon (IFN) treatment of human effector T cells activates CMC directed against K562 targets. An increase of the activity of the different hydrolytic enzymes tested (hexosaminidase and acid-phosphatase) measured in the effector cell population parallels cytolysis activation. IFN and IFN inducers (PIC) treatment of cultured murine L-929 cells generate molecular mediated cytolysis. An increase of hydrolytic enzyme activity (hexosaminidase; B-glucuronidase, acid and alkalin phosphatases) precedes cell lysis. Thus, in both cytolytic systems, IFN induced a polyenzymatic activation of hydrolases. This activation is similar to coordinate enzyme induction discovered by Hosli [16] in pathological and experimental instances, when absorbed substrates cannot be hydrolyzed by lack of specific enzymes. Activation of hydrolytic enzymes induced by IFN which determines its enhancing effect on CMC and on fibroblast autolysis [17] could speculatively explain other effects of IFN such as antiviral action, diminution of cell protein synthesis, inhibition of cell division or molecular alterations of cell surface.
Interferon production in human T lymphoblastoid cells]	Human T lymphoblastoid cell (RPMI 8402 cell) produced interferon (IFN) through the induction by Sendai virus. The priming effect on the interferon production in the RPMI 8402 cell could be found by the pretreatment of human leukocyte IFN (Hu IFN-alpha), but not by that of the IFN produced in the RPMI 8402 cell (T-IFN). The superinduction by the irradiation of ultraviolet rays or the treatment of antimetabolites (actinomycin D and cycloheximide) or 5-bromodeoxyuridine was not found. The T-IFN was completely neutralized by the anti-Hu IFN-beta serum, but not by the anti-Hu IFN-alpha serum at all. In conclusion, it was confirmed that the IFN produced in the RPMI 8402 cell through the induction by Sendai virus was antigenically identical to Hu IFN-beta.
Pharmacological modification of immunoregulatory T lymphocytes. I. Effect of adenosine, H1 and H2 histamine agonists upon T lymphocyte regulation of B lymphocyte differentiation in vitro.	Human peripheral blood T lymphocytes were fractionated according to the lability of their sheep red blood cell (E) receptors to theophylline. Theophylline sensitive (Ts) cells function as suppressors of pokeweed mitogen induced B cell differentiation into plasma cells, while theophylline resistant (Tr) cells function as helper/inducer cells in this reaction. The Ts fraction is enriched for cells bearing receptors for the Fc portion of IgG (RFc gamma) while the Tr fraction is depleted of RFc gamma bearing cells. Brief exposure of Tr cells to adenosine or impromidine, an H2 histamine agonist, cause a rapid increase in the number of Tr cells bearing RFc gamma and the development of radioresistant suppressor cell activity. The RFc gamma induced on Tr cells by adenosine or impromidine are more stable in culture than the spontaneously occurring RFc gamma on Ts cells. Ts suppressor activity is radiosensitive and exposure of Ts cells to 2(2-pyridyl)ethylamine, an H1 histamine agonist, results in a marked decrease in RFc gamma on Ts cells as well as loss of Ts suppressor activity. These data indicate that RFc gamma expression and the immunoregulatory function of T lymphocyte subsets may be modified by drugs acting upon adenosine, H1 and H2 histamine receptors.
Effect of radiation therapy and in vitro x-ray exposure on lymphocyte subpopulations and their functions.	Radiation treatment of breast cancer patients (45.0 Gy) profoundly affected the peripheral blood lymphocytes. The number of these cells was markedly reduced with non-T-cells being more extensively depleted than T-cells immediately after radiation. The long-lasting lymphopenia, on the other hand, was mainly due to reduced number of T-cells. Antigen and mitogen stimulability, MLC reactivity, pokeweed (PWM)-induced immunoglobulin (Ig) production in vitro, and different cytotoxic functions decreased. Depletion of lymphocytes largely restored the radiation-depressed lymphocyte reactivity. The effects of in vitro exposure of blood lymphocytes to x-rays were similar to those seen after radiotherapy. Non-T-cells and T-cells with Fc-receptors for IgG were relatively radiosensitive. This latter observation agreed well with demonstrated increase of PWM-induced Ig synthesis after in vitro exposure to x-rays. T-suppressor cells defined by monoclonal antibodies were, however, radioresistant. The cytotoxic functions were reduced. No correlations were found between the pretreatment immunological status or the extent of radiation-induced immunological suppression, respectively, and prognosis.
Lymphocyte subsets studied with monoclonal antibodies in liver tissues of patients with alcoholic liver disease.	In order to determine the nature of T lymphocytes accumulating in hepatic tissues of patients with alcoholic liver disease, we phenotyped these cells in situ, using monoclonal antibodies to lymphocyte surface antigens and the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) technique. In portal areas of cirrhotic livers, a significant increase (p less than 0.001) in T lymphocytes was observed as compared to livers showing only fatty changes and normal liver tissues. The T cells accumulating in cirrhotic livers comprised T helper-inducer (T4) and T suppressor-cytotoxic (T8) subsets with the T4/T8 ratio of 1.4 +/- 0.5 (SD, n = 14). In contrast, the T lymphocytes in the cellular projections which extended into the parenchyma consisted mostly of suppressor-cytotoxic cells. The relative enrichment in T8+ lymphocytes among the cells invading the parenchyma suggests that they may be important in the mediation of a cytotoxic injury of hepatocytes in advanced alcoholic liver disease and in regulating an immunologic challenge possibly initiated in response to alcoholic hyaline.
Acute hepatotoxin exposure effects lymphoid and accessory cell types in inbred mice.	The effect of acute hepatotoxin exposure on in vivo and in vitro immune responses were investigated in inbred mice. Splenic anti-SRBC PFC responses were slightly enhanced by carbon tetrachloride or galactosamine administration 5 hr prior to immunization. Whereas splenic anti-SRBC PFC responses were slightly enhanced in euthymic mice exposed to carbon tetrachloride 5 hr prior to immunization, immune responses to the TI antigens, Fl-LPS, Fl-Ficoll, and TNP-LPS, were significantly suppressed. Athymic mice receiving similar hepatotoxin exposure elicited enhanced immune responses to the TI immunogens, thereby suggesting that the activities of B cells and macrophages are enhanced in treated animals and in euthymic mice, T suppressor cells are also activated. By admixture of purified B- and T-cell and macrophage populations from either carbon tetrachloride-treated or control animals, it was demonstrated that hepatotoxin exposure also induces suppressor T cells regulating immune responses to the T-dependent antigen, SRBC, and that macrophages from treated animals are more functional. Further, B-cell responsiveness is enhanced. In addition to these observations, an active factor could be demonstrated in sera from hepatotoxin-treated animals which augments immune responses to SRBC in normal mice and promotes immune responses to this antigen in athymic mice. These findings indicate that the effects of acute hepatotoxin exposure are multifocal, influencing the activity of lymphoid and accessory cells.
The differential sensitivity of rat peripheral blood T cells to immunosuppressants: cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone.	Peripheral blood T cells from rats given a single oral dose of dexamethasone (DMS) or cyclophosphamide (CY) exhibited a differential sensitivity to these compounds as measured by lymphoproliferation in the presence of concanavalin A (Con A) or phytohemagglutinin hemagglutinin (PHA). Con A-responsive cells (T Con A) were found to be resistant to the effects of DMS, while the PHA-responsive population (T PHA) showed a dose-dependent suppression at dose levels of 0.35 and 1.00 mg/kg. DMS did not alter serum antibody production against sheep erythrocytes at the dosage level which produced a significant depression of the PHA response. Animals treated with CY showed enhanced Con A-mediated lymphoproliferation at a dose of 15 mg/kg and marked suppression at 45 mg/kg. The PHA-mediated response, however, exhibited only a dose-dependent suppression at both dosage levels. CY had no effect on the antibody response at doses that enhance Con A lymphoproliferation. These results suggest that T helper cells and T suppressor cells are not TpHA cells.
Effect of ACTH treatment on CSF and blood lymphocyte subpopulations in patients with multiple sclerosis.	Patients with active multiple sclerosis (MS) were examined for T lymphocytes (E-rosette-forming cells, E-RFC) and IgG concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and in blood, and for other lymphocyte subpopulations in blood, before and after treatment with adrenocorticotropical hormone (ACTH). Patients who responded to treatment had higher initial percentages of CSF T lymphocytes (93.1 +/- 3.0%) compared to patients who showed no clinical improvement (88.2 +/- 3.2%). After treatment, the responders had decreased CSF T lymphocyte levels (83.1 +/- 6.6%) while those of the nonresponders were unchanged (90.2 +/- 2.2%). In blood, T cell counts were unchanged, but "active" T cell levels showed a tendency to increase in responders and decreased significantly in non-responders. The percentage of Fc receptor-positive cells increased after treatment in both responders and nonresponders, and that of complement receptor-positive cells increased slightly in responders, but these changes were not statistically significant. Serum IgG concentrations decreased in eight of nine patients after treatment. CSF IgG concentrations were found to be increased, unchanged or decreased, after treatment with no significant differences between responders and nonresponders. The results suggests an involvement of the T lymphocyte in active MS.
In vitro generation of splenic suppressor cells by trypsin.	Rat spleen cells were mitogenically stimulated with concanavalin A (Con A) or sodium periodate and cultured for 14-20 hr with trypsin. When these trypsin-activated cells were co-cultured with fresh mitogenically stimulated cells, [3H]-thymidine incorporation into the fresh cells was suppressed. Artifactual and trivial effects of trypsin (e.g. increased release of cold thymidine, decreased cell viability, and a change in thymidine transport) could not account for the suppressor effect. Suppressor activity was not affected by removing B cells or macrophages before trypsin activation nor by treating the trypsinized cells with mitomycin C. Suppressor activity could only be generated when the spleen cells were stimulated with Con A or periodate during culture with trypsin, and supernates from the trypsin-activated cells did not have suppressor activity. The physiological significance of the results and possible mechanisms of action of the suppressor cells are discussed.
Mechanism of deoxyadenosine-induced catabolism of adenine ribonucleotides in adenosine deaminase-inhibited human T lymphoblastoid cells.	Loss of ATP accompanying accumulation of dATP has recently been reported to occur in the erythrocytes and lymphoblasts of patients with T lymphocytic leukemia during treatment with deoxycoformycin, an inhibitor of adenosine deaminase (adenosine aminohydrolase, EC 3.5.4.4) that causes the accumulation of deoxyadenosine. We have studied the mechanisms responsible for adenine ribonucleotide depletion in cultured human CEM T lymphoblastoid cells treated with deoxycoformycin and deoxyadenosine. Accumulation of dATP was accompanied by depletion of total soluble adenine ribonucleotides without change in the adenylate energy charge, by the route ATP --> AMP --> IMP --> inosine --> hypoxanthine; conversion of IMP to AMP and de novo purine synthesis were inhibited in these cells. ATP degradation did not occur in a mutant of CEM that was incapable of phosphorylating deoxyadenosine, or in a B cell line with very limited ability to accumulate dATP. We found that dATP and ATP were both able to stimulate markedly the deamination of AMP by lymphoblast AMP deaminase; dAMP was a poor substrate for this enzyme (K(m) = 2.4 mM, vs. 0.4 mM for AMP). Similarly, dATP as well as ATP caused marked activation of IMP dephosphorylation by a lymphoblast cytoplasmic nucleotidase. Inhibition of intracellular AMP deaminase with coformycin prevented degradation of adenine ribonucleotides without affecting dATP accumulation. We propose that ATP-dependent phosphorylation of deoxyadenosine generates ADP and AMP. Simultaneously, dATP accumulation stimulates deamination of AMP, but not dAMP, and the dephosphorylation of IMP to inosine. Coupling of AMP degradation to ATP utilization in deoxyadenosine phosphorylation maintains the adenylate energy charge despite net depletion of cellular ATP.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-mediated stimulation and suppression of DNA synthesis in lymphoid cells. II. Suppressive effect of ATP on murine T-cell functions.	The suppressive effects of ATP on murine T-cell functions were studied. The suppressive effects of ATP as well as adenosine on the DNA synthesis of spleen cells are due to the presence of mature T-cells, because ATP has no suppressive effect on athymic nu/nu spleen cells. Further characterization of the cells which are responsible for ATP-mediated suppression of DNA synthesis revealed that the cells are nylon wool-adherent T-cells and PHA-reactive T-cells. In addition, the suppressive effects of ATP on both spontaneous and mitogen-induced proliferative responses are stronger than that of adenosine, and T-cells are more sensitive to ATP than B-cells. The observation that both ATP and adenosine have unique effects on T-cells compared to B-cells may contribute toward explaining why patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) associated with adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency have greater T-cell than B-cell abnormalities.
Parameters of interferon action: I. Immunological effects of whole cell leukocyte interferon (IFN-alpha) in phase I-II trials.	The antitumor mechanisms of the interferons (IFN) have yet to be fully elucidated. Augmentation of natural killer (NK) cell activity in vitro and in vivo by IFN has regularly been assessed in clinical trials. We have measured NK activity against K562 target cells at various effector-to-target ratios, in patients receiving leukocyte IFN-alpha (HuLeIFN) in various schedules, as well as T-cell subsets determined by indirect immunofluorescence using Leu series monoclonal antibodies (Becton-Dickinson). The effect of HuLeIFN on the endocrine system has also been examined in selected trials. The preliminary results of these studies reveal that NK activity rose during the first 8 days of HuLeIFN therapy in patients with initially low levels of target cell lysis (less than 50% NK activity at either 50:1 or 25:1 ratios). Tachyphylaxis, with a decremental effect of HuLeIFN on NK activity, ensued during treatment, whether at the same or escalated doses. NK activity rose repeatedly during intermittent schedules of i.m. HuLeIFN given daily x 5 every 21 days with escalation cycles. A decreasing trend in the ratio of Leu 3a to Leu 2a (helper phenotype/suppressor phenotype) was also seen overall. Of the endocrine parameters evaluated, the only remarkable finding was an increase in serum cortisol level following ACTH stimulation following HuLeIFN. Intramuscular HuLeIFN has been shown to augment NK activity, to perturb the T-cell-lymphocyte balance, and to affect the pituitary-adrenal axis in vivo.
Clonal growth of human megakaryocytic progenitor cells in a micro-agar culture system: simultaneous proliferation of megakaryocytic, granulocytic, and erythroid progenitor cells (CFU-M, CFU-C, BFU-E) and T-lymphocytic colonies (CFU-TL).	A simple and reproducible micro-agar culture technique for cloning human CFU-M is described. Human bone marrow mononuclear cells were suspended in agar and incubated for 12 days. Stimulation was provided by the direct addition of phytohemagglutinin-P (PHA-P), erythropoietin (Epo) and 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME) to the liquid overlayer. A shift from BFU-E and CFU-C proliferation to CFU-M and CFU-TL was observed with increasing PHA concentrations. Under optimal conditions (PHA 50 micrograms, Epo 1.2 IU, 2-ME 2 x 10(-4) M, 1% purified BSA, 0.04% human transferrin, saturated with Fe C13) a linear relationship between colonies formed and plated cell number were observed. For the routine morphological analysis, the whole agar layers were stained using the Pappenheim method. For further characterization of CFU-M, cytochemical stainings and immunofluorescence tests with rabbit-antihuman factor VIII-related antigen were performed on the whole agar layers.
Selective inhibition of T suppressor-cell function by a monosaccharide.	Interactions between regulatory T lymphocytes and other cells are assumed to occur at the level of the cell surface. T cells which suppress the generation of specifically effector cells have been described as having antigenic, idiotypic, allotypic and I-region specificity. Other T suppressor cells generated by in vitro cultivation with or without mitogenic stimulation have suppressive activity for T and B cells but no specificity can be assigned to them. These T suppressor cells (Ts) inhibit various lymphoid functions-this either reflects their polyclonal origin or indicates that the structures recognized by the Ts receptors must be common for many cell types. Carbohydrates on cell membrane-inserted glycoproteins or glycolipids might function as specific ligands for recognition by cellular receptors or soluble factors. Almost all cell-surface proteins of mammalian cells are glycosylated. There is evidence for lectin-like carbohydrate binding proteins not only in plants but also in toxins, viruses, prokaryotic cells and even mammalian cells, including T cells. A functional role for these lectin-like proteins has been described for slime moulds and suggested for the selective association of embryonic cells. We report here that addition of a monosaccharide can counteract the effect of T suppressor cells during the generation of alloreactive cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) in vitro.
Inhibition of cytotoxic T-cell clonal expansion by cyclophosphamide and the recovery of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte precursors by supernatants from mixed-lymphocyte cultures.	Spleen cells from mice treated with cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg) and cultured at suboptimal concentrations do not generate a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) response to allogeneic tumor cells. The reduced response of spleen cells from cyclophosphamide-treated mice is not due to the elimination of CTL precursors because normal responses are obtained by the addition of a helper factor(s) derived from mixed lymphocyte culture supernatants. The results indicate that helper cells, required for development of CTL responses to tumor alloantigens, are eliminated by cyclophosphamide in the absence of evident toxicity to CTL precursors.
Suppressor T-lymphocyte deficiency in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.	The involvement of cell-mediated immunity in the pathogenesis of Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) was investigated by employing a modified migration inhibition factor test using preparations of isolated T-lymphocytes. The migration of T-lymphocytes from patients with GD and HT in response to crude human thyroid antigen was significantly inhibited compared to the migration of T-lymphocytes from normal subjects. This response was organ specific. When normal T-lymphocytes were mixed with GD or HT T-lymphocytes in ratios varying from 1:9 to 1:1, the migration inhibition activity of the GD or HT T-lymphocytes in response to thyroid antigen was abolished, but was not abolished when two different GD or HT T-lymphocyte preparations were mixed. Mitomycin C inhibited this suppressive effect of normal T-lymphocytes in vitro, but did not influence the migration inhibition activity of the antigen-sensitized GD or HT T-lymphocytes. On the other hand, the migration inhibition of GD and HT T-lymphocytes was prevented by puromycin. There thus appears to be activity in normal T-lymphocytes which can suppress the ability of GD and HT T-lymphocytes to respond to the thyroid antigen, which is lacking in the GD and HT T-lymphocytes themselves. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that there is a defect in suppressor T-lymphocyte function in GD and HT.
Marked reduction of ANAE reactivity of T cells in the lymphoid tissues of monkeys treated with multiple high doses of human beta interferon.	We report a histological study of the organs and tissues of cynomolgus monkeys which had received multiple high doses of human beta interferon (IFN). There were dense aggregations of small lymphocytes without the acid alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase (ANAE) reactivity in the thymus-dependent areas (TDA) of lymphoid tissues, indicating that the T mu cells of IFN-treated monkeys had lost this characteristic enzyme. This change of T mu cells in the tissues was not accompanied by a change in circulating T mu cells.
Effect of size-fractionated thymocytes on the number of hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow of sublethally irradiated mice]	A study was of the influence of size-fractionated thymocytes in the density gradient of bovine serum albumin on the number of CFUs in the bone marrow of mice exposed to sublethal irradiation. Subject to separation were thymocytes obtained from intact mice and mice after multiple injections of dexamethasone (DM). Two cell populations were demonstrated during separation of thymocytes from intact mice. Injection of the first cell population brought about a decrease in the number of CFUs in the bone marrow during postradiation recovery, whereas injection of other thymocyte subpopulation resulted in an increase in CFUs. The use of thymocytes obtained from DM treated mice enabled the detection of an increase in bone marrow CFUs, induced by both unfractionated thymocytes and two fractions of thymocytes.
Thymic hormonal activity on human peripheral blood lymphocytes, in vitro. V. Effect on induction of lymphocytotoxicity.	Thymic hormonal effect on lymphocytotoxicity induced in vitro and its target specificity were tested using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of healthy subjects. PBMC were treated by the thymic extract TP-1, a similarly prepared spleen extract (SE) or medium only (1 h, 37 degrees C) and then induced to express cytotoxic activity by exposure to allogeneic tumor cells in mixed cultures or by Con A stimulation. The cytotoxicity developed after several days in culture was assayed on 51Cr labelled tumor cells. TP-1 caused a significant mean enhancement of cytotoxicity induced and assayed on Raji lymphoma cells (mean % specific lysis, 31.5 +/- 2.9 without TP-1 and 53.7 +/- 3.6 with TP-1; n = 42; p less than 0.01). The scatter of individual responses to TP-1 was wide, however, and included also some cases of TP-1 induced suppression. Similar wide scatter of TP-1 effects with emphasis on TP-1 induced enhancement was observed with other tumor cell lines or with Con A as inducers. Usually, SE had no effect on induced cytotoxicity. Target selectivity (specificity) of induced cytotoxicity was tested by induction and assay on several tumor cell lines with crossing over, as well as by cold competition assay. When target selectivity was present, it was not masked by TP-1 induced enhancement. Moreover, in some cases, target selectivity became more pronounced after TP-1 treatment. However, TP-1 enhanced also Con A induced non-specific cytotoxicity. No effect of TP-1 on natural killer cell activity of fresh PBMC could be demonstrated. It is suggested that both selective cytotoxicity (T-cell dependent) and non-selective one maybe modulated directly by TP-1 and indirectly by TP-1 modified secondary interactions in culture. This profound regulatory effects could be demonstrated in the PBMC of immune-intact healthy adults.
In vitro hematoporphyrin (Hpd) inhibitory effects on some immunological assays.	Hematoporphyrin derivative (Hpd) is a fluorescent dye that is preferentially incorporated by tissues with a high mitotic index, such as tumor cells and blast cells. A cytotoxic effect is produced following light activation. Previous studies have shown a long lasting reversible inhibition of DNA synthesis in Hpd-treated cells that failed to stimulate allogeneic lymphocytes in either primary or in secondary MLR. In this study we report Hpd inhibitory effects on some immunological assays in vitro. Treatment with Hpd of cytotoxic effector cells resulted in inhibition of their lytic activity likely dependent on the loss of binding to target cells. In the same way Hpd treatment inactivated the lytic activity of NK cells. In contrast Hpd-treatment of target cells did not modify the above immunological reactions. Moreover Con A agglutinability, antibody dependent capping as well as E-rosettes were inhibited following an Hpd treatment of relevant cells. Since normal susceptibility to humoral and cell mediated lysis was exhibited by Hpd-treated cells it is unlikely that cell surface molecules were damaged. An inhibitory effect exerted by an Hpd treatment on cell surface movements might explain these findings.
Immunomodulation by recombinant interferon-alpha 2 in a phase I trial in patients with lymphoproliferative malignancies.	A single rising dose tolerance trial of rDNA interferon-alpha 2 (IFN-alpha 2) was conducted in eight patients with the diagnoses of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), multiple myeloma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Patients received a total of six i.m. doses at weekly intervals as follows: 1, 3, 10, 30, 60, and 100 x 10(6) IU. Patients were monitored at each dose level for serum IFN activity, anti-IFN antibodies, immunomodulation, clinical toxicity, and response. All patients exhibited clinical toxicity, including fever, chills, fatigue, headache, anorexia, mild-to-moderate leukopenia, nausea, and vomiting. Toxicity was dose-related, with significant side effects occurring in all patients at levels of 10 x 10(6) IU and above and some evidence of tachyphylaxis at higher doses. All side effects, including leukopenia and thrombocytopenia, were of short duration and were resolved within 3-5 days. Fevers, rigors, myalgias, and fatigue were partially alleviated by premedication with acetaminophen or hydrocortisone. Pharmacokinetic data indicated mean peak serum IFN titers greater than 90 at a dose of 10 x 10(6) IU and greater than or equal to 200 at doses greater than or equal to 30 x 10(6) IU 8 h after injection. No anti-IFN antibodies were detected. However, the serum levels achieved at higher doses were not linear, possibly indicating in vivo degradation. Total T cells, B cells, monocytes, and T subsets monitored by flow cytometry with monoclonal antibodies remained essentially constant throughout the trial. Although some patients demonstrated minor augmentations of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and natural killing (NK) activity at the lowest IFN-alpha 2 doses, the majority of patients demonstrated decreases in NK activity after higher IFN doses. No correlation between immunomodulation and clinical response to IFN was observed. At higher dose levels, the predominant immunomodulatory effect of IFN-alpha 2 was suppression of NK, ADCC, and blastogenic responses to T-cell mitogens and recall antigens. B-cell functional deficits as well as radioresistant T-helper and radiosensitive T-suppressor function assessed in a pokeweed mitogen-driven immunoglobulin secretion assay appeared unaffected by IFN administration. One myeloma patient showed progression and was discontinued after 60 x 10(6) IU. There were four patients (3 NHL, 1 myeloma) who achieved partial remission (greater than or equal to 50% tumor reduction) and three (1 CLL, 2 NHL) who showed objective tumor responses of less than 50%. These data suggest that rDNA IFN-alpha 2 is well-tolerated and may have significant antitumor activity against lymphoproliferative malignancies. Clin
Parameters of interferon action: II. Immunological effects of recombinant leukocyte interferon (IFN-alpha 2) in phase I-II trials.	Twenty-nine patients receiving recombinant interferon (IFN-alpha 2; Schering Plough Corp., Bloomfield, NJ) were studied for changes in natural killer (NK) activity measured by a 4-h 51Cr release assay against K562 cells, and T-cell subsets were determined by indirect immunofluorescence of Leu series monoclonal antibodies (Becton-Dickinson, Mountain View, CA). Seventeen cancer patients received daily i.m. injections of IFN-alpha 2 from 3 to 100 x 10(6) U/day for 28 consecutive days or to tolerance. Twelve of an anticipated 16 melanoma patients have been studied during a phase I trial using the i.v. route with the same recombinant IFN-alpha 2. NK activity rose during the first week of i.m. therapy from 49 +/- 6.5 to 67 +/- 6.2 (mean +/- SE, day 8) at both high (greater than or equal to 30 x 10(6) U/day) and low (less than or equal to 10 x 10(6) U/day) doses. This trend was not observed during therapy by the i.v. route at similar doses, in which NK activity tended to decrease in patients receiving 30 x 10(6) U/day or more. Changes in T-cell subsets were observed in both trials; Leu 3a/2a (helper phenotype/suppressor phenotype) ratio rose twofold in patients receiving i.m. IFN-alpha 2 at higher doses. A rise in Leu-3a+ and a fall in Leu 2a+ T cells account for the change. No change in T-cell subsets was seen in patients treated at low doses (less than or equal to 10(7) U/day) by the i.m. route. By contrast, the Leu 3a/2a ratio fell by 50% in patients who received 30 x 10(6) U/day or more of IFN-alpha 2 by the i.v. route, reflecting a fall in Leu 3a+ cells and a rise in Leu 2a+ cells. Thus, opposite changes in several parameters of immune competence occurred during treatment of patients with melanoma and other cancers, with a single recombinant IFN subspecies given by two different routes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activation of T lymphocytes by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate is resistant to inhibition by cyclosporin A.	Cultured T lymphocytes from pig blood can be activated by the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Activation is additive with that induced by the mitogenic lectin phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). Activation by TPA differs from that induced by PHA or other mitogenic lectins in that it is not inhibited even by high concentrations of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CS-A). Neither co-culture of lymphocytes with PHA and TPA nor addition of culture supernatants from TPA-stimulated cultures affected the sensitivity to CS-A of the response to PHA.
Immunomodulating activity of 3-(p-chlorophenyl)thiazolo-[3,2-a] benzimidazole-2-acetic acid (Wy-18,251, NSC 310633) in mice implanted with Lewis lung tumor. Effect of Wy-18,251 on lymphocyte proliferation and phagocytosis.	Proliferation of B lymphocytes is depressed in Lewis lung tumor bearing mice. Treatment of these mice with Wy-18,251 (5 mg/kg) significantly increased the responsiveness of their splenic T cells to concanavalin A in cell culture. Levamisole (5 mg/kg) acted more weakly than Wy-18,251. Neither Wy-18,251 nor levamisole elevated the depressed B cell mitogenesis. Wy-18,251 significantly increased macrophage phagocytosis against 51chromium labeled opsonized chicken red blood cells. Levamisole behaved differently: it either had no effect on phagocytosis, or depressed it.
Lymphocytes T and pharmacokinetics after a single oral dose of levamisole in healthy and cancer subjects.	Levamisole, an anthelmintic drug with immunopotentiating activity, is shown to have variable effects on cell-mediated immunity. We have studied the effect of a single oral dose (2.5 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg) on early and spontaneous E rosettes percentages in healthy and cancer patients. Pharmacokinetic study of this compound was conducted in parallel. The results indicated that single administration of levamisole (2.5 mg/kg) in healthy men can promote an increase of early E rosettes with mean peak plasma level of 0.8 micrograms. ml-1. On the other hand, there was no change in the proportion of early E rosettes in cancer patients and in the proportion of spontaneous E rosettes in healthy and cancer subjects.
Cortisol-resistant lymphocytes in experimental allergic processes and some diseases in men.	The material obtained permits us to conclude, that various diseases in men and experimental allergic processes, connected with the stimulation of immune mechanisms, are accompanied by increases of the CRLF. This reaction proved to be universal, for it was revealed in men and different types of animals during the investigation of peripheral blood and lymphatic nodes. The degree and duration of the CRLF increase varies and depends on a number of factors, including the character of the antigen and the type of activated immune mechanisms. All this permits the conclusion, that an increase of the CRLF content is an indicator of a general biological reaction of the immune system to antigen irritation. At the same time, changes take place in the T-lymphocyte system which are expressed by a redistribution of its subpopulations towards the accumulation of cortisol-resistant forms of T-cells. Development of sensitization is accompanied by a decrease of cortisol metabolism by lymphocytes of guinea pigs and rats lymphatic nodes. Similar changes in the properties of lymphocytes of human peripheral blood are not so distinctly revealed.
Szary syndrome: immunocytological and cytochemical variability of Szary cells.	The characteristic large cells in the blood of a patient with Szary syndrome underwent immunocytological and cytochemical changes during polychemotherapy, which caused transient regression of skin lesions. Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase was demonstrable in a few cells only after chemotherapy; initially, only 2% T cells and 26% B cells could be demonstrated in the blood by immunocytological methods; after cytostatic therapy, 35% T cells but no B cells were detected.
Macrophage cytostasis and T and B cell blastogenic transformation in mice treated with nystatin.	Treatment of normal BALB/c mice with nystatin, an amphoteric polyene, activated macrophages to become tumoricidal for MBL-2 lymphoblastic leukemia target cells while augmenting the in vitro blastogenic response of splenic lymphocytes to B and T cell mitogens. These responses were both shown to be highly dose dependent and occurred 6 days following the intraperitoneal injection of nystatin into normal mice. Macrophages from untreated mice did not show similar activity. The significance of these observations and the potential use of nystatin as a pharmacologic agent is discussed.
In vitro effects of thymosin on T-cell subsets in systemic lupus erythematosus.	The possible immunomodulatory influence of thymosin on lymphocytes from patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) has been evaluated. Such patients have decreased numbers of T-suppressor (T gamma) cells and normal numbers of T-helper (T mu) cells, resulting in an abnormally low T gamma/T mu ratio. In vitro incubation of lymphocytes from active SLE patients with thymosin resulted in a normalization of the T gamma/T mu ratio. This occurred because of a decrease in T mu cells rather than an increase in T gamma cells. The normalization of T gamma/T mu ratios in vitro in the presence of thymosin is compatible with possible in vivo immunomodulatory effects of these peptides.
Lymphocyte blast transformation and peripheral lymphocyte percentages in patients with sickle cell disease.	Twenty patients with sickle cell disease (14 black females and 6 black males, mean age 31.5 +/- 9.3) were studied by quantitating peripheral T and B lymphocyte percentages and measuring lymphocyte blast transformation (LBT) in response to phytohemagglutinin-P, concanavalin-A and pokeweed mitogen. Compared to normal black controls (19 black females and 1 black male, mean age 32.0 +/- 9.2 years) sickle cell patients had decreased T lymphocytes (50.2 percent +/- 6.2 compare; to 66.2 percent +/- 1.7) and increased B lymphocytes (17.0 percent +/- 3.4 compared to 7.7 percent +/- 1.1). Sickle patients exhibited decreased LBT to all three mitogens.
Inhibition of human helper T cell function in vitro by D-penicillamine and CuSO4.	The effect of d-penicillamine (Pen) and mixtures of Pen and copper sulfate on the capacity of normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBM) to generate immunoglobulin-secreting cells (ISC) in response to the T-cell-dependent polyclonal B-cell activators pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and staphylococcal protein A (SPA) was examined. PBM obtained from normal individuals were incubated for 1-2 h at 37 degrees C with medium alone, Pen, CuSO(4), or a mixture of Pen and CuSO(4). After washing, the cells were incubated for 6-7 d with PWM or SPA and then, with a reverse hemolytic plaque assay, assayed for the number of ISC generated. Preincubation of PBM with either Pen (100 mug/ml) or CuSO(4) (2 mug/ml) did not alter the subsequent capacity of the cells to generate ISC in response to PWM or SPA. In contrast, responsiveness to both mitogens was nearly abolished when PBM were similarly preincubated with a mixture of Pen and CuSO(4). Inhibition of responsiveness could not be ascribed to cell death, carry-over of the inhibitors, or an alteration in the concentration of PWM or the length of incubation yielding maximum responses. Co-culture experiments demonstrated that Pen and CuSO(4) preincubation had not caused augmented suppressor cell function. Experiments in which PBM were separated into adherent and nonadherent populations indicated that Pen and CuSO(4) preincubation inhibited the responsiveness of the nonadherent cells but did not alter the accessory cell function of monocytes. To determine whether Pen and CuSO(4) preincubation effected T- or B-cell function, PBM were separated into B- and T-cell-enriched populations, individually preincubated with Pen and CuSO(4), and then co-cultured with PWM. The results indicated that Pen and CuSO(4) markedly inhibited helper T-cell function and had little effect on the capacity of B cells to generate ISC. The observation that in the presence of CuSO(4) Pen inhibits helper T-cell activity may, in part, explain the therapeutic efficacy of Pen in rheumatoid arthritis and especially the capacity of Pen therapy to decrease antiglobulin titers in treated patients.
Effect of hydroxyprogesterone caproate on immunological skin tests and on the T-lymphocytes in cancer of the corpus uteri]	Under study was the effect of oxyprogesterone-capronate (500 mg daily, total dosage of 10 g) on delayed cutaneous hypersensitivity reaction (DCHR) to tuberculin and candidine as well as the level of T-lymphocytes and cortisol in the peripheral blood in 34 patients with primary cancer of the corpus uteri. Prior to the treatment there was a considerable negative correlation between metabolic and immunological indices. Under OPC exposure DCHR enhanced in 62% of observations. In 7 of 12 patients the level of T-lymphocytes was increased and blood cortiol level decreased in 6 of 11 patients. 58 per cent of the observations showed a parallelism between the effect of OPC on the skin tests and the tumor histostructure, and in 8 of 12 patients on the level of T-lymphocytes and the tumor histostructure.
Depressed T cell colony growth in systemic lupus erythematosus.	Phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood T lymphocytes, plated in agar, are capable of forming discrete lymphoid colonies. In 35 normal subjects, the average number of colonies was 6,020 +/- 351 (SEM). By contrast, in 39 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), the mean colony number was 2,774 +/- 384, a value significantly less than controls (P less than 0.001). Normal responses were measured in 5 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and in 7 of 8 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Colony growth in SLE showed a strong correlation with disease activity but did not correlate with responses of blood lymphocytes to phytohemagglutinin in suspension cultures, the number of circulating T cells, or serologic abnormalities.
Enzyme-induced modification of the surface properties of lymphoid cells in malignant disease. I. Effect of trypsin on rosette formation by lymphocytes in myelomatosis.	The surface properties of blood lymphocytes from treated myeloma patients and healthy controls were studied in vitro. The patients were tested 6 weeks after the last treatment to allow time for cells to recovery from possible drug toxicity. Peripheral-blood lymphocytes were tested for rosette formation with unsensitized sheep erythrocytes (E rosettes) and with complement and antibody-coated erythrocytes (EAC rosettes). The tests were duplicated using lymphocytes pretreated with trypsin. As others have noted, myelomatosis is associated with increased blood levels of EAC-rosette-forming cells and a marked reduction in E-rosette-forming cells. E-rosette formation was significantly increased by pretreatment of myeloma lymphocytes with trypsin. By contrast, enzyme-treated cells showed no significant change in EAC-rosette formation. These results suggest that the absolute number of circulating T cells is probably not reduced in myelomatosis, but that the surface of T cells is somehow modified so that a proportion of them lose the ability to form E rosettes.
Effect of thymosin on human lymphocyte subpopulations in vitro]	The incubation of healthy donors peripheral blood lymphocytes with thymosin was shown to increase the content of high avide "active" lymphocytes bearing receptors for SRBC, lymphocytes bearing receptors for C(2) component of complement and for Fc-portion of immunoglobulins. The proportion of cap-forming Ig-positive lymphocytes was shown to increase too. The role of T and B lymphocyte subpopulations and their precursors as thymosin action target cells is discussed.
Stimulating effect of triiodothyronine on cell-mediated immunity.	The effects in vitro and in vivo of triiodothyronine on certain functions of human lymphocytes and polymorphonuclear granulocytes have been investigated. Triiodothyronine was able to enhance the phagocytic capacity and chemiluminescent activity of polymorphonuclear granulocytes. PHA-P-induced 3H-thymidine incorporation into lymphocytes was significantly increased in the presence of triiodothyronine. A concentration-dependent enhancing effect of triiodothyronine on antibody-dependent enhancing effect of triiodothyronine on antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity was also observed.
The relationship between disease activity, treatment response, and immunologic reactivity in immunoblastic lymphadenopathy: a longitudinal study of treatment with levamisole and cytostatics.	In a longitudinal study, several immunologic in vitro tests were performed on peripheral lymphocytes in four patients with immunoblastic lymphadenopathy during sequential therapy with Levamisole and polychemotherapy. The percentage of T cells tended to fall with increasing disease activity, while the percentage of B cells remained almost constant. Blast transformation tests showed that both the T-cell and B-cell responses are defective and that improvement in disease status is correlated closely with an improvement of the blast transformation response. Levamisole treatment improved the blast transformation response but did not produce clinical remission in contrast to polychemotherapy, which produced clinical remission as well as improvement of the blast transformation response. No conclusions about the pathogenesis of this disease could be made in the present study. No proof was found of a primary defective T-cell function (including T-suppressor activity) although the available methods did not preclude this possibility completely.
Antiglucocorticoid activity of androgens in rat thymus lymphocytes.	The potent androgens testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, but not the inactive androgens etiocholanolone and androsterone, display antiglucocorticoid activity in rat thymus-derived lymphocytes. At a concentration of 10(-5) M, the potent androgens markedly lower the in vitro cytolytic response of isolated thymic lymphocytes to 10(-8) M dexamethasone. AT 2.5 X 10(-5) M, these androgens completely prevent the inhibition produced by 5 X 10(-8) M dexamethasone on 2-deoxyglucose uptake and uridine uptake and incorporation in isolated thymic lymphocytes. In the cytosol fraction obtained from rat thymus homogenate, the active androgens competitively inhibit the binding of [3H]dexamethasone to glucocorticoid-specific receptors with Ki values of 1.2 X 10(-6) and 2.5 X 10(-6) M for testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, respectively. Thymus-derived lymphocytes and nuclei isolated from these cells exhibit binding of [3H]dexamethasone. The bound dexamethasone is avidly displaced by an excess of nonradioactive dexamethasone as well as by nonradioactive testosterone or 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone. In contrast to their antiglucocorticoid activity in vitro, these androgens fail to elicit antiglucocorticoid activity when administered in vivo. This work shows that androgens are potent antiglucocorticoids in vitro due to competition with the active glucocorticoid on binding to cytoplasmic and nuclear receptor sites.
Tissue T-lymphocytes in untreated Hodgkin's disease: morphologic and functional correlations in spleens and lymph nodes.	In the present study the number of E-RFC and the in vitro response to PHA and ConA were determined for lymphocytes obtained from spleens and lymph nodes of untreated HD patients. The results were correlated with tissue involvement and with the histological pattern of the disease. Our investigation has revealed: (1) involved spleens and lymph nodes contained a higher percentage of T-lymphocytes than uninvolved tissues. The differences was statistically significant for lymph nodes. (2) A statistically significant correlation was not found between T-lymphocyte numbers and histology. (3) Lymphocytes from uninvolved spleens were significantly more reactive to both mitogens than cells from involved spleens and control non-neoplastic spleens as well. (4) Similar results were obtained with lymph node lymphocytes; however, a significant difference was observed only when cells were stimulated with ConA. (5) The difference in proliferative response between uninvolved and involved tissues was maximally expressed in MC and progressively decreased in NS and LP. (6) T-cell enrichment does not alter the difference between uninvolved and involved spleens. (7) Cells from uninvolved and involved spleens, cultured for 24 hours, maintained unchanged their proliferative capacity. In this study evidence is provided that in HD T-lymphocytes from uninvolved tissues are characterized by an increased reactivity in mitogens, whereas cells from involved tissues are normally responsive.
Peripheral blood T lymphocytes in patients with duodenal ulcers treated with cimetidine.	The influence of cimetidine on the numbers of circulating T lymphocytes was studied in 24 patients with duodenal ulcer treated with cimetidine. The patients were divided into two groups according to the way of cimetidine administration and T lymphocytes were measured during treatment. No significant difference in the numbers of T lymphocytes was found in both groups of patients suggesting that cimetidine given therapeutically has no effect on circulating T lymphocytes.
Humoral and cell-mediated immune status in mice exposed to chloral hydrate.	Chloral hydrate has been found in our drinking water supplies at levels up to 5 micrograms/1. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the functional status of the immune system in random-bred CD-1 mice exposed to chloral hydrate for 14 and 90 days. Male mice, following 14 or 90 days of exposure to 1/10 and 1/100 the actual oral LD50, exhibited no alterations in either humoral or cell-mediated immunity. However, female mice exposed for 90 days to chloral hydrate in the drinking water demonstrated a significant depression in humoral immune function. This depression was observed when spleen cells from exposed mice were evaluated for their ability to produce antibody against sheep erythrocytes. These females did not demonstrate any changes in cell-mediated immune status.
Short lived, dividing cells mediate adoptive transfer of immunity to Trichinella spiralis in mice. II. In vivo characteristics of the cells.	The in vivo characteristics of mesenteric lymph node cells (MLNC) capable of mediating the adoptive transfer of immunity to Trichinella spiralis have been examined. Mediator cells were diverted into the peritoneal cavity of infected donor mice following the induction of a peritoneal exudate and its was shown that these were nylon-wool, non-adherent (T) cells. After density gradient separation of [125I]-UdR-labelled MLNC, the fractions that were most effective in transferring immunity were those containing a small proportion of cells but the largest proportion of incorporated activity. Treatment of the donors of MLNC with the mitotic inhibitor vinblastine effectively prevented both the transfer of immunity and increased incorporation of [125I]-UdR characteristic of the mediator population. In vitro irradiation of MLNC failed to affect their ability to transfer immunity. Collectively these findings support the conclusion that mediator cells are T lymphoblasts, and suggest that mediation of immunity is effected directly by this population and not by their progeny.
Lymphocyte subpopulations and lymphocyte function in phenytoin-treated patients with epilepsy.	The number of leukocytes and the percentage of cells in various mononuclear subpopulations were determined in 22 patients with epilepsy. The lymphocyte response to PHA were examined in the patients and in selected controls. The patients were grouped according to phenytoin treatment at present or previously, and according to the presence or absence of serum IgA depression. Patients taking phenytoin demonstrated reduced leukocyte counts. The lowest counts were found in phenytoin-treated patients with markedly reduced IgA concentrations. The number of lymphocytes were reduced more than the total leukocyte count in the patients. No significant differences were observed between patients and controls regarding percentage of cells with membrane-bound immunoglobulins, active E-rosetting cells, AET-rosetting cells, EA-rosetting cells, EAC-rosetting cells, and cells with a capacity of phagocytosis. The mean response to PHA stimulation (PHA concentration 0.6 micrograms/ml) was 4634 counts per minute in the patients and 6132 counts per minute in the controls. However, the response to this stimulation varied considerably between individuals in both groups, and the difference between the 2 groups was not statistically significant.
Dynamics of immunoregulator T-lymphocytes and its importance in the chemo-immunotherapy of lymphoproliferative diseases in children]	The levels of T-lymphocytes in untreated lymphoid malignancies in children and those after different schemes of chemoimmunotherapy were compared. The ratio of T-helper and T-suppressor cells changed in the course of treatment in correlation with the chemotherapeutic effect: the fraction of T mu cells practically did not change whereas the T gamma cell fraction decreased considerably in patients who revealed a good response to therapy. BCG treatment stimulated both populations but the response of T gamma cells was stronger. Transplantation of thymus was followed by an increase on T mu cells.
Modulation of experimental autoimmune uveitis with cyclosporin A.	Cyclosporin A has been shown to be an effective inhibitor of T cell-mediated diseases. We show here that cyclosporin A was capable of totally preventing the clinical appearance of experimental autoimmune uveitis in Lewis rats, even when administered on an every-other-day schedule (10 mg/kg) or when begun seven days after immunization (40 mg/kg). At lower doses of the drug, a modulation of the disease was seen with evidence of a more chronic, granulomatous process. A long-lasting unresponsive state to the immunizing antigen was not uniformly induced with cyclosporin A if therapy was begun seven days after S antigen immunization. Because of cyclosporin A's effective control of this experimental model that is induced by an antigen to which certain patients with uveitis demonstrate cell-mediated immune responses, cyclosporin A may be an effective mode of therapy for T cell-mediated intraocular inflammatory disease.
The effect of phorbol-myristate acetate and concanavalin A on the growth of interleukin-2-dependent T-cell lines.	We tested the effect of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and of Con A on the growth of two Il-2 dependent T cell-lines. Il-2 dependent growth, as measured by 3H-TDR incorporation or viable cell counts was enhanced by PMA (5-100 ng/ml) and inhibited by Con A. These effects were only reproducible in the presence of intermediate concentrations of Il-2 containing supernatant. The enhancing effect of PMA was probably due to a positive influence on the replication rate since the drug had no visible effect on cell survival and since no evidence was found for the induction of Il-2 production by the cell-lines.
Differential effects of azathioprine on T cells regulating murine B-cell function.	We describe selective effects of azathioprine (Az) on T-cell subpopulations regulating the primary in vitro antibody response of mouse spleen cells to the T-independent antigen TNP-polyacrylamide. This response is susceptible to the effect of two kinds of non-specific suppressor cells: (i) spontaneously-induced suppressor, generated after 4-5 days culture in the presence of 2 micrograms/ml of concanavalin A (Con A). Indeed, both these precultured cells lead to a cell dose-dependent suppression of the anti-TNP response when transferred at the initiation of antigen-stimulated fresh cell cultures. T cells are the effectors of both these suppressions and seem to directly suppress the B-cell response. We tested the in vitro effect of Az (10(-1) micrograms/ml) on the generation of these two sets of suppressors. Whereas that of Con-A-induced suppressors proves to be resistant, that of spontaneously-induced T suppressors is totally prevented by the addition of Az in the preculture medium. Instead, Az treatment allows the manifestation of a spontaneously-induced helper T cell, simultaneously generated, which is able to increase a T-independent antibody response and quite resistant to the in vitro effect of Az. Thus, this study demonstrates that different subpopulations of T lymphocytes regulating the B-cell antibody response exhibit a selectivity to Az, implying different cell proliferation requirements and/or different cellular origin.
In vitro effect of ethanol on subpopulations of human blood mononuclear cells.	Mononuclear cells from 10 healthy blood donors were incubated with ethanol at 37 degrees C for 30 min. An ethanol concentration of 10.0 g/l reduced the percentage of active E rosette-forming cells (E RFC) from 25.0 +/- 12.1 to 16.2 +/- 8.7, and the percentage of total E RFC from 70.3 +/- 8.5 to 59.7 +/- 13.5 (p less than 0.01 for both). The percentage of cells with phagocytizing capacity was reduced from 11.7 +/- 5.4 to 7.0 +/- 5.0 by the ethanol treatment (p less than 0.01). Incubation with ethanol at a concentration of 1.0 g/l also significantly reduced the number of active and total E RFC and of phagocytizing cells. Ethanol at a concentration of 0.1 g/l did not influence these cell subpopulations. The number of EA RFC and EAC RFC were not influenced by ethanol.
In vivo detection of specific cell-mediated immunity in street rabies virus infection in mice.	In street rabies-infected mice, in vivo expression of delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) measured by the footpad test was revealed by challenge with inactivated fixed rabies virus (RV). The use of BCG as an adjuvant cell-mediated immunity (CMI) was necessary for the production of significant DTH levels. Typical DTH kinetics were obtained, with a maximum at 24 h after the challenge. DTH was also found to be at highest levels 4 days after infection with street rabies virus. DTH could also be revealed with street rabies virus in RV immunized mice. Adoptive transfer of lymphoid cells from a street rabies infected donor to normal recipient mice was performed and DTH was tested with RV. Susceptibility of DTH to immunosuppression by cyclophosphamide treatment was also assayed in street rabies virus-infected mice and in adoptively-sensitized recipient mice. These results and the relationship between DTH and CMI in rabies infection and immunization are discussed.
Differentiation between irreversible and reversible rejection in renal transplant patients by monitoring of phytohemagglutinin-induced cytotoxicity.	Phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-induced cytotoxicity against adherent HeLa cells, a reproducible test for primary T cell cytotoxicity, was used in the followup of 34 renal transplant recipients and related to the outcome. During the 1st week, two uncomplicated cases showed a decrease in cytotoxicity of more than 20% and it remained low. One patient with a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection showed a marked increase in cytotoxicity (37%) and it remained high. In 31 patients with a rejection episode, a change of -20 to +20% was observed. During the 2nd week, all 10 patients who developed an irreversible rejection showed an increase of more than 20% (mean, 29 +/- 8%), in contrast to only 2 of 21 patients with a reversible rejection (mean, -1 +/- 15%, P less than 0.001). There were no differences between these two groups in lymphocyte and T lymphocyte counts, or in prednisone or azathioprine dose or blood urea nitrogen levels. These results indicate that regular assessment of PHA-induced cytotoxicity may be useful in the followup of renal transplant patients.
Effect of single carcinogenic dose of dimethylnitrosamine on antibody responses in the rat.	The immunodepressive effect of a single, carcinogenic dose of dimethylnitrosamine was tested in a potent model of renal cancer induction using two antigens which differ in their cellular processing. Responsiveness to sheep red blood cells (SRBC), an antigen requiring the collaboration of both thymus-dependent (T) and thymus-independent (B) lymphocytes was determined by a plaque-forming assay; antibody production to Brucella abortus antigen, a thymus-independent antigen was measured in an agglutination test. The results suggested that DMN exerted little or no effect on B lymphocytes in the anti-SRBC antibody response. This effect commenced immediately following the carcinogenic insult from 24 h, with a degree of depression for the first 10 days equivalent to antilymphocyte globulin in terms of numbers of anti-SRBC antibody-forming cells. From 2 weeks there was gradual recovery with full restoration of normal responsiveness at 8 weeks. During the ensuing period of emergence of neoplastic foci in the kidney, and with the progression of such foci to tumors of macroscopic dimensions, there was no accompanying depression of antibody response. The differential effect was discussed in terms of selectivity of action, and lymphocyte subsets.
The immunosuppressant leflunomide inhibits lymphocyte proliferation by inhibiting pyrimidine biosynthesis.	Leflunomide is a novel immunosuppressive compound that is effective in the treatment of animal models of autoimmune disease and human rheumatoid arthritis. The mechanism of action is unknown. Here we show that leflunomide blocked 1) increases in nucleolar size and number, 2) upregulation of the nuclear protein antigens (PCNA and Ki-67), 3) increases in uridine incorporation and total RNA and DNA content, 4) cell cycle progression and 5) proliferation in mitogen-stimulated rat spleen mononuclear cells and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (HPBMC). Exogenous uridine reversed the leflunomide-dependent inhibition of the normal increase in total RNA and DNA content in mitogen-stimulated HPBMC and rat spleen cells. Uridine reversed the leflunomide-dependent inhibition of cell cycle progression in stimulated rat cell cultures. Either uridine or cytidine, which can be converted to uridine by cytidine deaminase, reversed the antiproliferative effect of leflunomide in HPBMC. Dihydroorotate accumulated in leflunomide-treated human T-lymphoblastoid cells, suggesting that the compound inhibited the fourth enzyme in the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway, dihydroorotate dehydrogenase. The results support the hypothesis that the in vitro effects of leflunomide on T-lymphocytes are due to inhibition of de novo pyrimidine synthesis.
Frequency of HPRT mutant lymphocytes in a human control population as determined by the T-cell cloning procedure.	The T-cell-cloning assay was established to determine the frequency of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) mutant lymphocytes in the presence of the selective agent 6-thioguanine in peripheral blood from a human control population. We investigated 44 healthy adults (blood donors) and found a mean mutant frequency of 7.2 x 10(-6) (geometric mean 5.6 x 10(-6). An elevated mean mutant frequency occurred in smokers as compared to non-smokers. However, a statistically significant increase was only observed between female smokers and female non-smokers while there was only a slight difference in the male group. A significant difference in mutant frequency could be found between individuals younger than 35 years and those above 35. But the difference of the mutant frequency with age showed up only among smokers. No significant effect of the gender was observed. Mutant frequency was inversely related to the cloning efficiency.
ETS1 transactivates the human GM-CSF promoter in Jurkat T cells stimulated with PMA and ionomycin.	Activation of T helper cells results in coordinate expression of a number of cytokines involved in differentiation, proliferation and activation of the haematopoietic system. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is one such cytokine whose increased expression results partly from increases in transcription. Cis-acting elements with NF kappa B, AP-1 and ETS-like motifs have been identified in the promoter region of the GM-CSF gene, which are important for transcriptional activity following PMA and ionomycin stimulation. A number of the ETS family of transcription factors are expressed in T cells, including ETS1 and ELF1. Here we describe the ability of these factors to interact with a site (GM5), located within the CLE0 element, -47 to -40 upstream of the GM-CSF transcription initiation site. Exogenous ETS1, but not ELF1, can transactivate GM-CSF, through the GM5 site, in a PMA/ionomycin dependent manner. Other unidentified ETS-like factors present in Jurkat cells are also capable of binding GM5. Mutation of the core ETS binding site from -GGAA- to -GGAT- prevents the binding of ETS-like factors with the exception of ETS1. The GM-CSF promoter, modified in this way to be ETS1 specific, is fully responsive to PMA/ionomycin induction, in addition to ETS1 transactivation in the presence of PMA and ionomycin. Together these data suggest that ETS1 may be involved in mediating the increased GM-CSF production associated with T cell activation.
Adrenergic blockade ameliorates cellular immune responses to mental stress in humans.	This study evaluated the sympathoadrenal modulation of behaviorally evoked immune responses by administration of a nonselective adrenoceptor antagonist (labetalol) to subjects exposed to mental stress. In a 2 x 2 factorial design, subjects were assigned to a labetalol or saline condition and, within each condition, were exposed either to acute laboratory stress or no stress (control). Lymphocyte subsets, natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity, and T cell proliferation to phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A were assessed pre-experimentally, at baseline after infusion and after 18 minutes of mental stress (or rest). By comparison with the other three conditions, the saline-stress group showed a greater peripheral NK cell number and cytotoxicity, lower mitogenic response to phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A, and diminished ratio of CD4:CD8 cells after the stressor. As predicted, immune responses did not differ among the remaining groups (labetalol-stress, saline-rest, labetalol-rest). Group differences in NK cell cytotoxicity were not significant after controlling for differences in NK cell numbers. These findings demonstrate that the occurrence of certain immunologic responses to acute psychological stress are dependent on concomitant activation of the sympathetic nervous system.
A synthetic dimeric HLA class I peptide inhibits T cell activity in vitro and prolongs allogeneic heart graft survival in a mouse model.	A peptide derived from the alpha 1 domain of the human HLA class I heavy chain (amino acids 75-84; B2702.75-84) has been shown to inhibit human cytotoxic T and NK cell activity in a non-allele-restricted manner. In vivo, this peptide prolonged skin allograft survival in a murine model. Here we demonstrate prolongation of heart allograft survival in mice and extend the characterization of the immunomodulatory activity of B2702.75-84. Similar to what has been observed with retrovirus-derived peptides, the inhibitory capability of this peptide was increased when bound to a carrier protein. An increased immunomodulatory activity was also observed with the dimeric peptide B2702.84-75-75-84 or the multimeric B2702.75-84.MAP. This peptide not only inhibited cytotoxic T and NK cells but also anti-CD3-induced T cell proliferation as well as a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). Flow cytometric analysis of T cells harvested from anti-CD3-stimulated spleen cell culture in the presence of B2702.84-75-75-84 showed decreased expression of activation markers (CD25, ICAM-1, Pgp-1, CD69) compared with untreated control cultures. The superior activity of B2702.84-75-75-84 could also be demonstrated in vivo. Administration of B2702.84-75-75-84 prolonged the survival of B6 (H2b) hearts in CBA (H2k) recipients to 15 +/- 2.7 (P = 0.0002 vs. control) days compared with 11.4 +/- 2.6 (P = 0.01) days in B2702.75-84 treated animals and 7.5 +/- 1.1 days in untreated controls. Administration of control peptides had no significant effect on allograft survival. In combination with a subtherapeutic dose of cyclosporine, B2702.75-84 induced long-term graft survival in 60% of recipients.
Beta 2-adrenoceptor density of human lymphocytes after nitroprusside-induced hypotension.	The present study was undertaken to assess the influence of nitroprusside-induced hypotension on beta 2-adrenoceptor density. Twenty-four patients undergoing nose-septum corrections under general anesthesia were allocated randomly to a nitroprusside or control group. beta 2-Receptor density on lymphocytes was measured by binding studies using (-)125-iodocyanopindolol. Lymphocyte subpopulations B, T, Thelper, Tsuppressor, and natural killer cells were determined simultaneously by flow cytometry. Five of 12 nitroprusside-treated patients developed significant intraoperative increases of epinephrine levels (+69% versus preoperatively) which were not seen in the remaining seven patients. In these five patients, beta 2-receptor density of unfractionated lymphocytes was 26% lower (P < 0.05) on the first day after surgery compared with preoperative values. Since no changes in proportions of lymphocyte subpopulations were observed, these results are not caused by redistribution phenomena inducing a decrease of subsets with a high number of beta receptors. These findings suggest that beta 2-adrenergic responsiveness might be diminished after nitroprusside treatment in some patients.
Interleukin-7 can induce the activation of Jak 1, Jak 3 and STAT 5 proteins in murine T cells.	The activation of Janus protein tyrosine kinases (Jak) and STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) proteins has recently been linked to the signal transduction mechanism of several cytokines. IL-7 was observed to induce a rapid and dose-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of Jak 1 and Jak 3 and concomitantly, the tyrosine phosphorylation and DNA binding activity of multiple STAT proteins. The STAT proteins utilized by IL-7 were identical to those induced by IL-2 and could be identified as various STAT 5 isoforms. Moreover, the induction of both Jak 1 and 3, and STAT 5 activity strongly correlated with the growth-promoting effects of IL-7, suggesting that this signal transduction mechanism may play a key role in IL-7-induced proliferation.
Bacterial superantigens induce T cell unresponsiveness in B cell-deficient mice.	Bacterial superantigens such as staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) cause in vivo a profoud and long-lasting state of unresponsiveness in ligand-reactive T cells. To test whether presentation of SEB by small resting B cells to ligand-reactive T cells is essential for the induction of T cell unresponsiveness, we analyzed the effect of SEB in B cell-deficient mice. We observed T cell deletion and T cell unresponsiveness in both B cell-deficient mice and control mice. We conclude that presentation of SEB by resting B cells is not a prerequisite for the induction of T cell unresponsiveness in vivo.
Interleukin (IL)-15 promotes the growth of murine epidermal gamma delta T cells by a mechanism involving the beta- and gamma c-chains of the IL-2 receptor.	Dendritic epidermal T cells (DETC) are skin-specific members of the epithelial gamma delta T-cell family in mice. We have reported previously that the growth of DETC is promoted by interleukin (IL)-2 in an autocrine fashion, or by IL-7, which is secreted by neighboring keratinocytes. Here we report that DETC growth is promoted by IL-15, a newly discovered T-cell growth factor that is produced in lymphoid as well as nonlymphoid tissues. Recombinant IL-15 promoted the growth of the 7-17 DETC line in a time- and dose-dependent fashion. Using monoclonal antibodies against alpha-, beta-, or gamma c-chains of the IL-2 receptor complex, we observed that the combination of anti-beta chain and anti-gamma c chain antibodies blocked IL-15 responsiveness completely, whereas anti-alpha chain had no effect. These results indicate that this gamma delta T-cell line uses the beta/gamma c heterodimer for proliferative responses to IL-15. Antibodies against IL-2 or IL-7 did not block IL-15-driven proliferation of 7-17 DETC, indicating that IL-15 promotes their growth in an IL-2- and IL-7-independent manner. Both the surface expression of beta/gamma c heterodimers and the IL-15 responsiveness of 7-17 DETC were highest 1 to 8 days after concanavalin A stimulation, and both declined substantially 21 days after stimulation, illustrating regulation by the state of cell activation. Working with epidermal cells that were freshly procured from CBA mice, we noted that IL-15 promoted conavalin-A-triggered growth of Thy-1+ cells (i.e., DETC), but not of the Thy-1- cells. The gamma c-chain was not expressed by freshly procured DETC, becoming detectable within 48 h after concanavalin A stimulation. We propose that IL-15 facilitates the growth of epithelial gamma delta T cells by a beta/gamma c receptor-dependent mechanism.
Calcium and barium permeation through calcium release-activated calcium (CRAC) channels.	A Ca2+ current activated by store depletion has been described recently in several cell types and has been termed ICRAC (for Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ current). In this paper, the Ca2+ and Ba2+ permeability of CRAC channels is investigated in mast cells, rat basophilic leukaemia cells (RBL) and human T-lymphocytes (Jurkat). The selectivity of CRAC channels for Ca2+ over monovalent cations is identical in all three cell types and is at least as high as that of voltage-operated Ca2+ (VOC) channels in the various tissues tested. The amplitude of Ba2+ currents relative to Ca2+ currents (IBa/ICa) through CRAC channels was found to be strongly dependent on the membrane potential and was much smaller in Jurkat cells compared to mast and RBL cells. An anomalous mole-fraction behavior was observed at very negative membrane potentials in all three cell types when using different mixtures of external Ca2+ and Ba2+. In contrast to VOC channels, the anomalous mole-fraction effect was not observed at potentials positive to -20 mV.
Lack of proliferative response by gluten-specific T cells in the blood and gut of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis.	The majority of patients with Dermatitis Herpetiformis (DH) have a gluten-sensitive enteropathy which may be triggered by a T cell-mediated immune response to gluten. Using a proliferative assay, the responses to gluten fraction III, recall antigens and mitogens of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and gut T cell lines (TCL) isolated from patients with Dermatitis Herpetiformis (DH) and normal controls were studied. In most cases, neither PBMC nor gut T cell lines (which were predominantly CD3+, CD4+, TCR alpha beta +) from either controls or patients proliferated in response to gluten fraction III alone. However, the addition of 10 U/ml IL-2 to PBMC cultures containing gluten fraction III resulted in a marked increase in proliferation in 9/19 DH patients and 7/11 controls compared to IL-2 alone. Furthermore, gluten-induced upregulation of IL-2 receptor (CD25) expression was demonstrated on PBMC from 4/4 patients with DH and 2/3 controls after 7 days' culture with antigen. A similar effect by exogenous IL-2, or the same concentration of IL-4, was observed in 8/11 (P = 0.02) and 5/6 respectively DH, and 3/4 normal gut T cell lines. No difference was observed in the response of DH and control PBMC to Tetanus toxin, Candida albicans and PPD; both normal and DH gut T cell lines were unresponsive to these antigens. However, the addition of IL-2 increased the response to Candida albicans by DH gut T cell lines. Moreover, the response of DH gut T cell lines to PHA (P < 0.001), Concanavalin A and anti-CD3 were markedly reduced compared to PBMC from the same patients. These findings suggest that gluten-specific T cells present in the blood and gut of normal and DH individuals are activated by but do not proliferate in response to specific antigen.
Activation and clonal expansion of human myelin basic protein-reactive T cells by bacterial superantigens.	Autoreactive T cells specific for myelin basic protein (MBP) are part of the normal T cell repertoire and are present both in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and healthy individuals. There is evidence suggesting in vivo activation and persistent clonal expansion of MBP-reactive T cells in MS. This study was undertaken to investigate the potential role of bacterial superantigens (SA) in the activation of MBP-reactive T cells. Twenty-seven MBP-reactive T cell clones generated from 10 MS patients and one normal individual were examined for reactivity to SA, in association with their T cell receptor V beta gene usage. The majority of the clones responded to at least one of the SA tested, staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEA and SEB) and toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1). The clones reactive to SEA and SEB expressed various V beta genes while T cell reactivity to TSST-1 correlated with the V beta 2 expression. Furthermore, circulating MBP-reactive T cells could be expanded from lymphocyte cultures primarily exposed to respective SA in more than 50% of MS patients and normal individuals tested. However, activation and expansion of circulating MBP-reactive T cells by SA was not directly associated with the disease. This study lends support to the potential role of SA in the activation of MBP-reactive T cells and suggests that an altered regulatory mechanism may account for further expansion and persistence of MBP-reactive T cells in MS.
Chloroquine treatment affects T-cell priming to minor histocompatibility antigens and graft-versus-host disease.	Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) caused by T-cell recognition of minor histocompatibility (MiHC) antigens is a major complication of bone marrow transplantation. GVHD therapy has focused on removal or suppression of donor T cells, but modulation of MiHC antigen presentation to CD4+ T cells may represent an alternative approach. Chloroquine is known to inhibit major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II presentation of antigen in vitro by affecting invariant chain dissociation from MHC class II. The goal of this study was to evaluate the role of chloroquine in abrogating T-cell priming to MiHC and GVHD in mice after transplantation of an MiHC incompatible donor. C57BL/6 mice were treated with phosphate-buffered saline or chloroquine at 400 micrograms intraperitoneally every day for 5 days before priming with BALB.B cells (MiHC-incompatible) followed by weekly injections of chloroquine at 400 micrograms for 4 to 8 weeks. Chloroquine treatment decreased the proliferative T-cell response to MiHC by 67% and the cytolytic T-cell activation by greater than 50%. After bone marrow transplantation (LP/J into C57BL/6; MiHC-incompatible), GVHD was significantly decreased in chloroquine-treated mice (17% with GVHD) as compared with that in controls (92% with GVHD). Chloroquine treatment did not have other effects in vivo on the normal T- and B-cell mitogenic responses, T-cell allogeneic responses, and MHC class II and I surface expression. Chloroquine treatment does decrease the ability of C57BL/6 antigen-presenting cells to stimulate C3H.SW T cells reactive with MiHC expressed on C57BL/6 cells, suggesting an effect on MHC class II presentation of MiHC in vivo. Treatment with chloroquine in vivo appears to result in decreased CD4+ T-cell priming to MiHC and GVHD by decreased class II MHC antigen presentation. Thus, chloroquine treatment may represent an alternative approach to control GVHD.
Effects of naltrexone on morphine-induced tolerance and physical dependence and changes in cellular immune function in mice.	The effects of naltrexone on tolerance/dependence, as well as alterations in cellular immune function induced by morphine administration, were determined. Mice were rendered tolerant to and physically dependent on morphine by subcutaneous implantation of pellets containing 75 mg of morphine. Implantation of naltrexone pellets (10 mg) blocked the development of tolerance to the analgesic action of morphine, as well as the development of physical dependence. Morphine suppressed lymphoid organ weights and cellularities, and this suppression was blocked by naltrexone. B-Cell proliferation was suppressed in morphine-tolerant but not in morphine-abstinent mice, and this suppression was exacerbated by naltrexone. Morphine tolerance and abstinence were associated with suppression of IL-2 production, which was completely blocked by naltrexone. NK cell activity was not significantly affected by either morphine or naltrexone exposure. The results suggest that the effects of morphine on the immune system are at least partially mediated through opioid receptors.
Studies into the effect of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A on NF-kappa B activation in T lymphocytes. Evidence for covalent modification of the p50 subunit.	The tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A was found to block NF-kappa B stimulation in response to interleukin-1 and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in EL4.NOB-1 thymoma cells and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in Jurkat T lymphoma cells. The effect appeared not to involve inhibition of tyrosine kinase activation as neither interleukin-1 nor phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate induced major changes in tyrosine phosphorylation in EL4.NOB-1 or Jurkat cells, respectively. Herbimycin A did not interfere with I kappa B-alpha degradation, and in unstimulated cells, it modified NF-kappa B prior to chemical dissociation with sodium deoxycholate. Because herbimycin A is thiol-reactive, we suspected that the target was the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B, which has a key thiol at cysteine 62. Herbimycin A inhibited DNA binding when added to nuclear extracts prepared from stimulated cells, which were shown to contain high levels of p50. Incubation of herbimycin A with 2-mercaptoethanol attenuated the effect. Herbimycin A was also shown to react directly with p50, blocking its ability to bind to the NF-kappa B consensus sequence. However, a mutant form of p50 in which cysteine 62 was mutated to serine was insensitive to herbimycin A. Finally, we demonstrated that the compound inhibited the expression of interleukin-2 (an NF-kappa B-regulated gene) in EL4.NOB-1 cells. These data therefore suggest that herbimycin A inhibits NF-kappa B by modifying the p50 subunit on cysteine 62 in the NF-kappa B complex, which blocks DNA binding and NF-kappa B-driven gene expression. The results urge caution in the use of herbimycin A as a specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor and suggest that the development of agents that selectively modify p50 may have potential as a means of inhibiting NF-kappa B-dependent gene transcription.
Costimulatory properties of the human CD4 molecule: enhancement of CD3-induced T cell activation by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 through viral envelope glycoprotein gp120.	This study was designed to investigate the T cell costimulatory activity of ligands binding to different regions on the human CD4 molecule. We assayed the costimulatory properties of a panel of CD4 MAbs, intact HIV, and viral envelope glycoproteins in CD3-induced activation of resting T cell subpopulations. Our data using MAbs reveal epitope-specific variations in the functional activities of CD4 MAbs under specific conditions in which CD3 and CD4 molecules are co-cross-linked. We show that both naive and memory CD4+ T cell subsets are susceptible to CD4-mediated costimulation, which overcomes the functional differences between the two cell populations in responsiveness to CD3 MAbs. We show for the first time that, analogous to CD4 MAbs, preparations of HIV and viral envelope glycoprotein gp120 are also potent costimulators of T cell proliferation and IL-2 production. On the basis of these results we propose possible mechanisms for polyclonal cell activation in the course of HIV infection and suggest that viral inhibitory and costimulatory effects may together disrupt the normal balanced function of the immune system, leading to AIDS.
T-cell reconstitution by molecular, phenotypic, and functional analysis in the thymus, bone marrow, spleen, and blood following split-dose polychemotherapy and therapeutic activity for metastatic breast cancer in mice.	We examined the effect of a maximum tolerated, split-dose chemotherapy protocol of cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) on neutrophil and lymphocyte subpopulations in the peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs), thymus, bone marrow, and spleen. It was found that this protocol of polychemotherapy, modeled after the induction protocol used with autologous bone marrow transplantation (AuBMT) for breast cancer, suppressed both B- and T-cell populations and T-cell function at times when the absolute neutrophil count had returned to normal or supernormal numbers. We observed an organ- and phenotype-specific T- and B-cell recovery to normal levels following chemotherapy. However, despite normalization of cellularity and phenotype frequency, splenic lymphocytes remained unable to respond to normally concanavalin A (ConA). This polychemotherapy protocol in mice with an extensive experimental metastasis mammary tumor burden, was a dose lethal to 20% of the test group, which could be overcome with treatment by BMT and rHu interleukin (IL)-7. Furthermore, therapy with the T-cell augmenting agent rHu IL-7 had additive therapeutic activity and significantly prolonged survival beyond that of chemotherapy and BMT although it did not cure any mice with a heavy tumor burden. In summary, these studies demonstrate an organ-specific and selective polymorphonuclear neutrophil and T- and B-cell reconstitution following multidrug, split-dose chemotherapy on tissue and PBL populations, and a chronic depression in T-cell function, which when modified can result in significant therapeutic activity.
Papaverine hydrochloride: effects on HIV replication and T-lymphocyte cell function.	Papaverine hydrochloride (PAP) has previously been shown to have a potent inhibitory effect on the replication of viruses such as cytomegalovirus (CMV) and measles. In this report the effect of PAP on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication and T lymphocyte cell function were examined. MT4 cells infected with HIV strain 3b were incubated with serial dilutions of PAP (1-30 microM). At selected times postinfection HIV replication was measured by reverse transcriptase activity (RT) or HIV p24 Ag. PAP significantly inhibited HIV replication by more than 99% at doses of 30 microM with an CD50 and ED50 of 32 microM and 5.8 microM respectively. The mechanism of inhibition of HIV caused by PAP appeared independent form its ability to increase intracellular levels of cAMP and was not mediated via a direct effect on RT activity. To examine T cell function, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from normal donors were stimulated with phytohemagglutinin (PHA) or CMV Ag in the presence or absence of PAP (1-30 microM). At selected times proliferative response to PHA and CMV Ag were determined by [3H]thymidine uptake. In addition, interferon (IFN) gamma and interleukin 2 (IL2) response to mitogens were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). PAP enhanced PHA induced IFN production at doses of 1-10 microM and CMV Ag induced IFN production at doses of 1-3 microM. Higher doses were inhibitory. PAP did not affect IL-2 production or IL2 receptor expression and had an inhibitory effect on mitogenic responses.
Peptide sequences with strong stimulatory activity for lymphoid cells: implications for vaccine development.	Seven peptides derived from the bacterial major outer-membrane protein TraT were synthesized and then tested in lymphoproliferative assays using lymphoid cells from a variety of animals that had been immunized with the native TraT molecule in saline. A hierarchical pattern of responsiveness to the peptides was observed in the four animal species studied and in particular three of the peptides (T2, T4 and T6) showed very strong responses in all species. The 'universality' of the TraT-derived peptides was confirmed by studying the responsiveness of lymphoid cells obtained from the peripheral blood of twenty clinically normal human donors. Thus, following a secondary in vitro immunization with TraT-pulsed human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, responsiveness to TraT and to the TraT-derived peptides was observed in the cultures derived from all twenty donors. Taken together, our findings imply that the putative T-cell epitope peptides (T2, T4 and T6) could be employed as carriers in subunit vaccines and thereby help to overcome the unresponsiveness observed in animals and humans as a result of MHC restriction.
Differences between thymic and splenic cells of the rat: biochemical and physico-chemical investigations in vitro on DNA topoisomerase II--inhibitors and thiyl radicals.	Interactions of novobiocin (NB) and nalidixic acid (NA) with thiols were investigated in vitro in thymic (T-) and splenic (S-) cells of the rat, by determining nucleic acid synthesis as well as nucleoid sedimentation and viscosity of alkaline cell lysates. In T-cells NB, at concentrations of 0.35-1.4 mM, increased unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) and RNA synthesis (RNS), whereas S-cells underwent a dose-dependent inhibition of UDS and RNS following exposure to NB at concentrations > 0.7 mM. Combining NA and thiols (e.g., dithiothreitol) resulted in a slight stimulation of UDS in S-cells and in a highly significant increase of UDS in T-cells ascribed to a depletion of the cellular thymidine pool. In both cell types, neither NB nor NA exerted a significant effect on thiol-induced DNA damage. At a concentration of 1.4 mM, NB increased the viscosity of alkaline T-cell lysates; the opposite effect was observed in S-cells. From these results as well as from previous investigations we conclude that T- and S-cells differ in their state of chromatin conformation. This interpretation offers a simple model for the study of the influence of chromatin structure on cell-specific physico-and/or chemico-biological interactions.
Differential effect of 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide and antimyeloid monoclonal antibodies on T and natural killer cells during bone marrow purging.	Autologous bone marrow (BM) transplantation after high dose therapy is widely used to treat acute leukemia, lymphoma, and selected solid tumors. In studies of BM purging with chemical agents, monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs), or other agents, the emphasis has been on the efficacy of tumor cell removal and sparing of hematopoietic progenitor cells. Two commonly used methods of BM purging for patients with acute myeloid leukemia have been the drug 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC) and (MoAbs) directed to myeloid antigens such as CD14, CD15, and CD33. Although both methods of BM purging have potent activity against leukemia cells, 4-HC is also quite toxic to normal hematopoietic progenitor cells in the same concentrations that are used to deplete leukemia cells. To further characterize the cellular composition of BM after purging, we examined the effects of MoAbs plus complement and 4-HC on cells of the lymphoid lineage in the BM. 4-HC exerted a concentration-dependent cytotoxicity on clonogenic T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and lymphokine (interleukin-2)-activated killer (LAK) cells, whereas the anti-CD14 and anti-CD15 MoAbs had little effect. At a concentration of 4-HC commonly used for BM purging (60 micrograms/mL), there were 4 to 5 logs of T-cell depletion and almost complete elimination of NK- and LAK-cell activity. In contrast, 4-HC at low concentrations (eg, 3 micrograms/mL) spared the majority of lymphoid cells suggesting that low concentration 4-HC combined with MoAb purging may be a desirable alternative to higher concentration 4-HC. These data indicate that purging with antimyeloid MoAbs, but not with 4-HC, spares the function of mature graft lymphocytes. Infusion of viable lymphocytes may be important for the transfer of immune memory against microbial and neoplastic antigens and may hasten immune reconstitution. In addition, mature graft lymphocytes may also be selectively activated and expanded in conjunction with interleukin-2 administration after BM transplantation.
Streptavidin-tricolor is a reliable marker for nonviable cells subjected to permeabilization or fixation.	Cell death is normally accompanied by loss of integrity of the cell membrane. Concomitant loss of osmotic pressure and permeability for DNA binding dyes like propidium iodide make it possible to distinguish viable from nonviable cells. However, after permeabilization for intracellular staining or after fixation of the cells, we find that propidium iodide leaks out of nonviable cells and is transferred to formerly viable cells. Cell size cannot be used for examining viability in permeabilized or heterogeneous cell populations. Here we show that streptavidin-tricolor enters specifically and irreversibly into dead cells, and is not transferred to formerly viable cells after fixation or permeabilization. Therefore, streptavidin-tricolor can be a useful dead-cell marker in experimental situations where conventional methods fail to distinguish between viable and nonviable cells.
Control of lymphocyte integrin function: evidence for multiple contributing factors.	The control of lymphocyte adhesion is critical for proper cellular functions. The alpha 2 beta 1 integrin complex serves as a receptor for collagen on lymphocytes. The T cell leukemia Jurkat expresses alpha 2 beta 1 in a latent form on the cell surface. Three types of stimuli, antibody to the alpha 2 chain (JBS2), antibody to the beta 1 chain (JB1B), and phorbol ester (PMA), each induce activation of alpha 2 beta 1-dependent Jurkat binding to collagen. A comparison of the JBS2, JB1B, and PMA induction requirements indicated that the JB1B and the JBS2 effects are not sensitive to staurosporine while the PMA response is completely inhibited. Combinations of functionally saturating concentrations of the stimuli displayed an additive effect. Collectively these results suggest that several factors contribute to the generation of full integrin functionality and cellular adhesion, thus providing a possible basis for incrementally controlling the adhesive potential of lymphoid cells.
Upregulation of cell surface expression of T-lymphoid antigens and adhesion molecules on acute myeloid leukaemia cells after in vivo administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.	We herein report a case of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML, FAB:M0) who showed upregulation of T-lymphoid antigens (CD2, CD7) and adhesion molecules (CD11a, CD11b, CD18) on leukaemic cells after in vivo administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). To our knowledge, this is the first report which describes in vivo changes of cell surface antigen expression on AML cells after the administration of G-CSF.
Testing of plant extracts preparations for prevention and non-toxic therapy of oncologic diseases in experimental models]	The extracts from Panax ginseng and Rhodiolae rosea from natural roots, from cultural callus tissue and from Ganoderma mushroom have been studied for adaptogene, T-immunogene activities and for stimulation of mechanical integration in tissues predisposed to hereditary tumors. The least activity has been shown by extracts from Ganoderma M., that from Rhodiolae rosea natural root has turned out to the most effective. This study can serve as the basis for further investigations by using the extracts on inbred mice and in the clinical setting for the prevention and intoxic therapy of tumors.
Substance P and adrenocorticotropic hormone do not affect T-lymphocyte adhesion to vascular endothelium or surface expression of adhesion receptors.	Substance P (SP) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) are peptides that have been shown to have both neurological and immunological effects. Because of the demonstrated effects upon immune function, we examined the effects of these peptides on T-lymphocyte adhesion to vascular endothelium and surface adhesion receptor expression. Neither the adhesion assays nor the expression assays showed any statistically significant effect of SP (10 microM) or ACTH (1 microM) for any incubation period used. We conclude that, while SP and ACTH have a variety of immunomodulatory effects, direct modulation of T-lymphocyte adhesion to vascular endothelium is probably not one of them.
Topical FK506--clinical potential or laboratory curiosity?	Cyclosporine A (CsA) is an immunosuppressant that is efficacious in several inflammatory skin disorders. Its use is, however, limited due to systemic side-effects. Topical forms of CsA have been tried but they do not seem to be effective presumably due to insufficient penetration to skin. Tacrolimus (FK506) is another immunosuppressant that has almost similar effects on the cellular level as CsA. FK506 is 10-100 times more potent than CsA and it has lower molecular weight. Recent studies suggest that topical FK506 penetrates human skin in amounts exceeding those of topical CsA. Topical FK506 also seems to suppress skin inflammation in man. These findings prompt for further clinical studies of efficacy and safety of topical FK506.
Signal transduction in T lymphocytes of SLE patients: lectin-activated phosphorylation on tyrosine.	A comparative study of signal transduction through tyrosine phosphorylation process in peripheral blood lymphocytes from SLE patients and healthy subjects reveal some modifications in the phosphorylation pattern of SLE T lymphocytes. Thus, the level of constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation in resting SLE T lymphocytes is higher than in lymphocytes from healthy subjects. In SLE T lymphocytes, a cellular proteic substrate with an apparent molecular weight of about 37 kDa is constitutively phosphorylated. Some differences in the pattern of phosphorylation are obvious in lectin (Con A, PHA)-activated T lymphocytes. Thus, Con A activation enhances the phosphorylation of cellular substrates with molecular weight in the range of 55-80 kDa from SLE T lymphocytes. Moreover, the 21 kDa substrate is also hyperphosphorylated after PHA activation of SLE lymphocytes.
Conformation of a T-cell stimulating peptide of interleukin-1 beta protein: circular dichroism studies.	A T-cell stimulating peptide Val-Gln-Gly-Glu-Glu-Ser-Asn-Asp-Lys-OH, the 163-171 fragment epitope of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), has been synthesized in solution phase and purified by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The backbone conformation of the synthetic fragment, investigated in aqueous solution by circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy, is qualitatively a mixture of beta-turns and random coil. Quantification of the CD spectra revealed the presence of a 9% beta-turn fraction in water at pH 7.0, suggesting the occurrence of the conformation for the epitope fragment in aqueous solution necessary for T-cell stimulation and antigenicity. Concomitant changes in CD spectra were observed with increases in the trifluoroethanol (TFE) concentration in water, and the beta-turn fraction in peptide increased to 28% at a concentration of 90% TFE. This helicogenic solvent, as well as other solvents such as methanol, acetonitrile and dioxane (all favouring an ordered structure in peptides), failed to induce any alpha-helical conformation in the IL-1 beta (163-171) fragment, and CD spectra were attributed to only beta-turn ordered structure. This beta-turn structure has also been found to be a theoretically preferred conformation using Chou-Fasman proclivity data and is in accordance with the presence of an all-beta-globular conformation for its parent molecule IL-1 beta. Thus, the beta-turn conformation is probably involved in retention of T-cell stimulation activity in this synthetic epitope.
The T-cell repertoire contains cells reactive with hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis: recognition of synthetic peptide fragments of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) in the Lewis rat.	This report characterizes T-cell lines developed against peptide fragments of the neuroendocrine hormones, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). A MHC Class II binding motif containing a serine (S) and glutamic acid (E) residue separated by five intervening amino acids was used as a template for synthesizing peptides that may serve as T-cell epitopes. T-cell lines were generated specifically against a 17-amino-acid peptide of POMC or CRH peptide. These T-cell lines were predominantly CD4+ T cells and proliferated in an antigen-specific fashion. Furthermore, proliferation of T-cell lines specific for peptide-hormones could be inhibited by anti-MHC Class II antibody. In vitro the whole CRH protein could be processed and recognized as antigenic by CRH peptide-specific T cells. In addition, POMC-specific T cells can recognize POMC peptide presented on the membrane of MHC Class II+ POMC T cells. These results indicate that the normal T-cell repertoire of the rat contains elements which can recognize and specifically proliferate to self-proteins of the hypothalamic-hypophyseal axis. Moreover, it seems that T lymphocytes themselves may present antigens which they synthesize. The relationship of these observations to autoimmune reactions affecting the hypothalamus and/or pituitary gland, or T-cell regulation, is the subject of ongoing investigation.
Enhancement of cytokine production by macrophages stimulated with (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan, grifolan (GRN), isolated from Grifola frondosa.	The ability of grifolan (GRN), a purified fungal (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan, to induce various cytokines from macrophages was examined in vitro. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) activity in supernatants from the culture of macrophage cell line, RAW264.7 was dependent on increasing doses of GRN. The level of IL-6 induced with 500 micrograms/ml of GRN was comparable to that induced with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 10 micrograms/ml. Enhancement of the mRNA level of IL-6 by treatment with GRN was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The effect of GRN on production of IL-6 was also observed using peritoneal macrophages from C3H/HeJ mice which did not respond to endotoxins. This data suggested that the ability of GRN to activate IL-6 production of macrophages is not due to contamination of endotoxins in the preparation. Enhanced production of cytokine by GRN was observed not only with IL-6, but also with interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha). In the production of TNF alpha, GRN was more effective than LPS used in this study. Other soluble or gel-forming(1-->3)-beta-D-glucans from various sources did not enhance the production of such cytokines although they are structurally similar to GRN. The above results indicate that GRN is a novel macrophage activator which augments cytokine production without dependence on endotoxins.
Increased expression of complement receptor type 1 (CR1, CD35) on human peripheral blood T lymphocytes after polyclonal activation in vitro.	The receptor for C3b and C4b--complement receptor type 1 (CR1, CD35)--is present on a variety of cell types including erythrocytes, phagocytic cells, B lymphocytes and a small subpopulation of T lymphocytes. The function of the receptor varies according to the different cell types, but on T lymphocytes the function is as yet not known. The present study concerns the influence of polyclonal stimulation on CR1-expressing T lymphocytes. Incubation with PHA resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the number of CR1-positive T lymphocytes. The CR1-expression T lymphocytes were found in both the CD4- and the CD8-positive subpopulation, but a significant stimulatory increase was only found in the CD4-positive population. A significant increase in the number of CR1-expressing T lymphocytes was found when monocytes were present during stimulation, indicating an importance of monocytes and/or monocyte products. However, the increase was not regulated by arachidonic acid metabolites of the cyclo-oxygenase pathway as indomethacin failed to inhibit the increase. Neither did rIL-1 alpha, rIL-1 beta, rTNF alpha nor rIL-6 alter the number of CR1-expressing T lymphocytes. The results of this study indicate a role for CR1 on T lymphocytes in the regulation of the immune system.
FISH analysis on spontaneously arising micronuclei in the ICF syndrome.	The ICF syndrome is a rare disorder where patients show undercondensation of the heterochromatic blocks of chromosomes 1, 9, and 16 along with variable immunodeficiency. The undercondensation of the heterochromatic block appears to be restricted to a portion of PHA stimulated T cells. Patients with this syndrome also show an increase in micronuclei formation. We have used dual colour FISH to investigate the chromosomal content of these micronuclei in PHA stimulated peripheral blood cultures, an EBV transformed B cell line, and also micronuclei observed in vivo from peripheral blood smears. Chromosome 1 appears to be present in a higher proportion of micronuclei compared to chromosomes 9 and 16 in both a PHA stimulated culture and an EBV transformed cell line. An 18 centromeric probe, not associated with the ICF syndrome, showed no signal in any of the micronuclei observed. The implications from these observations are that the heterochromatic instability in the ICF syndrome is manifested not only in T but also in B cells and that it is present in vivo.
The effect of varying dietary concentrations of vitamin A on immune response in the turkey.	1. The effect of dietary vitamin A on antibody production and T-cell proliferative response was determined in poults from 21 to 41 d old. Poults were fed on soyabean meal-sorghum-based diets with concentrations of supplemented vitamin A from 0 to 13.2 micrograms/g retinol equivalents from hatching and were immunised with Newcastle disease virus (NDV) and turkey pox vaccines. T-cell proliferation response to concanavlin A was determined in vitro at 31 d old. Antibodies to NDV and turkey pox in serum were determined at 10 and 20 d after inoculation. 2. Poults receiving the diet with no added dietary vitamin A died by 22 d and had very low concentrations of plasma and liver vitamin A. 3. Increasing dietary concentrations of vitamin A enhanced the proliferative response until the diet contained 6.0 micrograms/g, above which the response began to decrease. The antibody titres to NDV and turkey pox increased as dietary vitamin A increased, with maximal values found 10 d after inoculation with 6.0 micrograms/g. At 20 d after inoculation low antibody titres were found with low vitamin A intake. 4. These data suggest that maximal immune responses in the poult may be achieved at dietary intakes of vitamin A at or higher than those recommended by NRC (1984, 1994).
Response of psoriasis to a lymphocyte-selective toxin (DAB389IL-2) suggests a primary immune, but not keratinocyte, pathogenic basis.	Psoriasis is a hyperproliferative and inflammatory skin disorder of unknown aetiology. A fusion protein composed of human interleukin-2 and fragments of diphtheria toxin (DAB389IL-2), which selectively blocks the growth of activated lymphocytes but not keratinocytes, was administered systemically to ten patients to gauge the contribution of activated T cells to the disease. Four patients showed striking clinical improvement and four moderate improvement, after two cycle of low dose IL-2-toxin. The reversal of several molecular markers of epidermal dysfunction was associated with a marked reduction in intraepidermal CD3+ and CD8+ T cells, suggesting a primary immunological basis for this widespread disorder.
Immunosuppression and induction of anergy by CTLA4Ig in vitro: effects on cellular and antibody responses of lymphocytes from rats with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.	The pathogenic antibody response to acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) is T cell dependent. Therefore, it should be possible to design specific immunotherapeutic approaches to treat EAMG (and human MG) by interfering with AChR-specific helper T cells. Productive T cell activation by antigen requires at least two signals: one signal delivered through the T cell receptor by antigen and a second costimulatory signal delivered through the CD28 receptor via the B7 counterreceptor expressed on antigen-presenting cells. Here we show that interference with the B7 costimulatory signal, using a soluble CD28 analogue, CTLA4Ig, resulted in a profound decrease in IL2 production and significantly decreased lymphoproliferative responses and antibody responses by primed lymph node cells from rats with EAMG, when stimulated with AChR in vitro. Nonclonal AChR-specific T cell lines, when stimulated with AChR in the presence of CTLA4Ig, were also inhibited in their ability to proliferate and to produce the cytokines IL2 and IFN-gamma. They remained deficient in their ability to produce IL2 when restimulated with AChR plus fresh antigen-presenting cells and showed variable inhibition of proliferation. The induction of hyporesponsiveness was accompanied by the expression of functional IL2 receptors, as shown by vigorous proliferative responses to addition of exogenous IL2. These results indicate that specific antigen stimulation in the presence of CTLA4Ig can induce certain features typical of anergy. CTLA4Ig provides a promising approach for the immunomodulation of MG and other antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases.
Interleukin-7 activates p56lck and p59fyn, two tyrosine kinases associated with the p90 interleukin-7 receptor in primary human T cells.	We have investigated signaling events associated with the cloned 90-kDa (p90) interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R) to determine whether changes in the signaling pathways initiated by this molecule can explain the ability of T cells to proliferate to IL-7 following activation. Using in vitro kinase assays we find that the p90 IL-7R in both unstimulated and activated human T cells is physically associated with two molecules with intrinsic kinase activity. Western blotting analysis reveals these proteins to be the src kinase enzymes, p59fyn and p56lck. Binding of human recombinant IL-7 to the p90 IL-7R results in increased activity of both receptor-associated kinases in both resting and activated mature T cells. Thus, the signaling pathways initiated via the p90 IL-7R-associated src kinases are unlikely to be solely responsible for the proliferation of only activated T cells in response to IL-7. Additional signals, which may derive from other IL-7R-associated molecules such as the gamma c, are clearly required for IL-7-driven proliferation of activated primary T cells.
Methylmercury induces Ca(2+)-dependent hyperpolarization of mouse thymocytes: a flow cytometric study using fluorescent dyes.	The effect of methylmercury on mouse thymocytes was examined using fluorescent dyes for membrane potential and intracellular Ca2+. Methylmercury at concentrations of 1 microM or higher (up to 30 microM) produced hyperpolarization in a dose-dependent fashion. Charybdotoxin and quinine, but not 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium, greatly suppressed methylmercury-induced hyperpolarization. Removal of external Ca2+ reduced the degree of hyperpolarization. Pretreatment of thymocytes with A23187 under Ca(2+)-free conditions abolished the hyperpolarization induced by methylmercury. Under both normal and Ca(2+)-free conditions methylmercury increased the intracellular concentration of Ca2+. The results suggest that the increase in intracellular Ca2+ is mediated through a Ca2+ release from intracellular stores as well as through influx of external Ca2+. Therefore, it is likely that methylmercury increases the intracellular concentration of Ca2+, resulting in activation of Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance of mouse thymocytes.
Stimulation of matrix metalloproteinase-dependent migration of T cells by eicosanoids.	Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and leukotriene B4 (LTB4), at nanomolar to micromolar concentrations, elicited migration of human blood T cells and cultured T lymphoblastoma cells of the Tsup-1 line through a layer of Matrigel basement membrane matrix. The density of Tsup-1 cell high-affinity receptors was low for PGE2 and high for LTB4, resulting in respectively predominant chemokinetic and chemotactic stimulation of migration. Migration-enhancing concentrations of PGE2 and LTB4 also increased Tsup-1 cell content and secretion of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) 2, 3, and 9, which were quantified by Western blots and zymography, and augmented Tsup-1 cell-surface expression of the MMPs, as shown by flow cytometry. That a specific MMP inhibitor suppressed migration of blood T cells and Tsup-1 cells through Matrigel, but did not affect PGE2- and LTB4-initiated T cell migration through micropore filters without Matrigel, suggests dual requirements for MMP expression and enhanced motility in T cell passage through basement membranes.
Murine tumorlytic factor, immunologically distinct from tumor necrosis factor-alpha and -beta, induced in the serum of mice treated with a T-cell mitogen of Corynebacterium kutscheri.	Murine tumorlytic factor (TF), immunologically distinct from murine tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and -beta, was purified to a homogeneity from the serum of mice injected with a T-cell mitogen of Corynebacterium kutscheri. The treated mouse serum was purified by Lentil lectin-Sepharose chromatography, DEAE-cellulose chromatography, preparative isoelectric focusing, and high-pressure liquid chromatography to the specific activity of 1.5 x 10(6) U/mg protein. TF was 42 kDa in its oligomeric form and 14 kDa in its monomeric form. TF activity was not impaired with hamster monoclonal antibody (mAb) to recombinant murine TNF-alpha and -beta and, reciprocally, rabbit antibody to TF neutralized the bioactivity of neither murine TNF-alpha nor -beta. TF was not precipitated with the mAb to murine TNF-alpha and -beta in Western blot analysis. The partial amino acid sequence of TF was at most 33% homologous to the 46-63 sequence of mouse TNF-beta. Thus, these results suggest that TF might be a novel tumorlytic factor which is immunologically distinct from mouse TNF-alpha and -beta.
In vitro evaluation of fentanyl and meperidine for immunomodulatory activity.	Exposure to drugs, either ethical pharmaceuticals or illicit street drugs, often results in medical complications, including alterations in the immune system. Among the drugs associated with immunomodulatory potential are the analgesics fentanyl and meperidine. The purpose of this study was to determine the potential of these drugs to alter immunological parameters subsequent to in vitro exposure at a range of concentrations. This potential immunotoxicity was assessed using a series of in vitro assays measuring B-lymphocyte proliferation, cytokine production by T-helper lymphocytes, T-lymphocyte cytolytic function, natural killer (NK) cell function, and macrophage function. Exposure to these analgesics was associated with a differential suppression of interleukin-4 production by T-cells, as well as a more generalized suppression of cytokine production by macrophages. In addition, T-cell cytolytic activity was suppressed at high drug concentrations. B-cell proliferation and NK cell activity were also inhibited, but to a lesser degree than noted with T-cell function. Addition of naltrexone to the cultures did not reverse these alterations in immune function, suggesting that these changes are not mediated via opioid receptors.
Enzymatic activity of DPIV/CD26 is involved in PMA-induced hyperphosphorylation of p56lck.	The T-cell activation antigen CD26 (dipeptidyl peptidase IV, DPIV) is a proline specific protease thought to be involved in regulation of the immune response. Several former results characterized this ectoenzyme as a possible accessory molecule of the T-cell surface. The molecular events of lymphocyte activation mediated by this enzyme, as well as the physiological ligands of dipeptidyl peptidase, are only partly established. Here we provide evidence for a direct involvement of DPIV/CD26 in early phosphorylation mechanisms which were known to be essential in the signal transduction cascade of human T lymphocytes. Considering a possible functional linkage between CD26 and the tyrosine kinase p56lck, we have investigated the action of DPIV-specific inhibitors (Lys[Z[NO2)]-thiazolidide and -piperidide) on the PMA-induced hyperphosphorylation of p56lck in human T cells. Interestingly, this hyperphosphorylation of p56lck was strongly suppressed by both inhibitors in a dose-dependent manner. Removal of these inhibitors totally restored the hyperphosphorylation. Therefore, this effect could be considered as reversible. Free thiazolidine and piperidine, used in control experiments, neither inhibit DPIV enzyme activity nor PMA-induced hyperphosphorylation. The data presented here provide evidence that DPIV/CD26 is directly involved in early processes of T-cell activation. Furthermore, these findings strongly support the assumption that the signaling function of CD26 requires its enzymatic activity.
Generation of effector T cells in Hymenolepis nana-infected, FK-506-treated BALB/c mice.	FK-506 administered into mice daily at a dose of 10.0 mg/kg (but not 1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg) caused suppression of protective immunity to Hymenolepis nana, when the agent was injected intraperitoneally during the induction phase of protective immunity. Daily administration of 10.0 mg/kg FK-506, during the course of larval development from challenge, also suppressed protective immunity. Inhibition of protective immunity was only observed in mice that received FK-506 for 6 days at a daily dose of 10.0 mg/kg and were challenged 24 h after the final FK-506 injection. FK-506 did not inhibit formation of effector cells that mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) to H. nana egg antigen when the agent was administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 10.0 mg/kg/day for 6 days before cell preparation. However, FK-506 did inhibit DTH effector cell activation when cells prepared from infected, saline-injected mice were transferred into 10.0 mg/kg FK-506-treated recipient mice. These results strongly indicate that FK-506 cannot inhibit the generation of effector cells but will suppress their function in vivo.
Fusobacterium nucleatum inhibits human T-cell activation by arresting cells in the mid-G1 phase of the cell cycle.	Fusobacterium nucleatum has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several diseases, including urinary tract infections, bacteremia, pericarditis, otitis media, and disorders of the oral cavity such as pulpal infections, alveolar bone abscesses, and periodontal disease. We have previously demonstrated that sonic extracts of F. nucleatum FDC 364 were capable of inhibiting human T-cell responses to mitogens and antigens. In this study, we have further characterized this immunosuppressive protein (FIP) and initiated experiments to determine its mode of action. The purified FIP has an apparent molecular mass of 90 to 100 kDa; sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicates that the FIP is actually composed of two subunits with molecular masses of 48 and 44 kDa. Purified FIP retained its biological activity and was capable of inhibiting mitogen-induced proliferation of human T cells. Inhibition was dose dependent, and the FIP exhibited a specific activity approximately 250-fold greater than that of the crude extract. Cell cycle analysis indicates that FIP-treated cells were prevented from exiting the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle. However, FIP did not alter the expression of activation markers (CD69, CD25, and CD71) or interleukin-2 secretion. The latter observations suggest that the T cells did indeed become activated and had entered the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Analysis of the expression of cyclins indicates that the phase of the cell cycle that is FIP sensitive resides somewhere beyond the restriction point of cyclin D2 (early to mid-G1) but prior to that of cyclins D3 and E (mid- to late G1). Finally, analysis of the expression of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen indicates that this is the earliest detectable defect in T cells exposed to FIP. We propose that if a block in the G1 phase of the cell cycle occurs in vivo in lymphocytes, it may result in a state of local and/or systemic immunosuppression. These suppressive effects could alter the nature and consequences of host-parasite interactions, thereby enhancing the pathogenicity of F. nucleatum itself or that of some other opportunistic organisms.
Mafosfamide induces DNA fragmentation and apoptosis in human T-lymphocytes. A possible mechanism of its immunosuppressive action.	Cyclophosphamide, an alkylating agent belonging to the family of nitrogen mustards, is commonly used to treat progressive autoimmune diseases in humans. At the molecular level, its cytotoxicity results from DNA double strand crosslinks and, at higher concentrations, from DNA strand breaks. At the cellular level, cyclophosphamide may selectively affect mature lymphocytes with relative sparing of the respective precursor cells. In this study, we show that 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CP), the active metabolite of cyclophosphamide, induces apoptosis in mature human lymphocytes at concentrations that are achieved in vivo. Since cyclophosphamide requires enzymatic conversion in the liver to yield its active metabolite, 4-OH-CP was generated in vitro by non-enzymatic hydrolysis of mafosfamide. Apoptotic cell death of lymphocytes was characterized by typical morphological changes, nucleosomal DNA fragmentation, and quantified by 3'-OH end labeling of fragmented DNA. The percentage of apoptotic cells both depended on drug concentration and time of exposure. Cycloheximide or ZnSO4 did not suppress 4-OH-CP induced apoptosis. Etoposide, a topoisomerase II inhibitor known to induce apoptosis in human tumor cell lines like 4-OH-CP, did induce detectable DNA fragmentation in only a minor proportion of T-lymphocytes but suppressed T-cell proliferation.
Accumulation of sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins in the cytosol of activated T cells undergoing RNA degradation and apoptosis.	Engagement of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) causes transformed T cell hybridomas to produce lymphokines and then die by an apoptotic mechanism. Here we show that these functional effects of TCR-mediated signaling are associated with the accumulation of several cytosolic mRNA-binding proteins including the previously described AU-A, -B, and -C proteins as well as a novel 70-kDa protein. The results indicate that the 70-kDa protein derived from a 90-kDa precursor present in unactivated T cells and that both proteins bound to two independent sites at the 3'-end of the interleukin-2 mRNA, one in the coding region and the other in an AU-rich segment of the 3'-untranslated region. Glucocorticoids, TCR engagement by monoclonal antibodies, pharmacologic mimics of TCR signaling, or high concentrations of protein or RNA synthesis inhibitors all induced apoptosis, the cytosolic appearance of the RNA-binding proteins, and an increased rate of RNA turnover. Moreover, drugs that interfere with TCR-mediated signals, such as cyclosporin A and staurosporin, prevented both apoptosis and the appearance of the RNA-binding factors. The fact that the accumulation of these factors occurred in the presence of inhibitors of transcription and translation suggested that these proteins are present in an inactive form in unstimulated T cells and are activated when apoptosis is induced.
T cell receptor-mediated Ca2+ signaling: release and influx are independent events linked to different Ca2+ entry pathways in the plasma membrane.	In this study, we showed that cross-linking CD3 molecules on the T cell surface resulted in Ca2+ release from the intracellular stores followed by a sustained Ca2+ influx. Inhibition of release with TMB-8 did not block the influx. However, inhibition of phospholipase C activity suppressed both Ca2+ release and influx. Once activated, the influx pathway remained open in the absence of further hydrolysis of PIP2. Thapsigargin, a microsomal Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor, stimulated Ca2+ entry into the cells by a mechanism other than emptying Ca2+ stores. In addition, Ca2+ entry into the Ca(2+)-depleted cells was stimulated by low basal level of cytosolic Ca2+, not by the emptying of intracellular Ca2+ stores. Both the Ca2+ release and influx were dependent on high and low concentrations of extracellular Ca2+. At low concentrations, Mn2+ entered the cell through the Ca2+ influx pathway and quenched the sustained phase of fluorescence; whereas, at higher Mn2+ concentration both the transient and the sustained phases of fluorescence were quenched. Moreover, Ca2+ release was inhibited by low concentrations of Ni2+, La3+, and EGTA, while Ca2+ influx was inhibited by high concentrations. Thus, in T cells Ca2+ influx occurs independently of IP3-dependent Ca2+ release. However, some other PIP2 hydrolysis-dependent event was involved in prolonged activation of Ca2+ influx. Extracellular Ca2+ influenced Ca2+ release and influx through the action of two plasma membrane Ca2+ entry pathways with different pharmacological and biochemical properties.
Defective TCR-mediated signaling in anergic T cells.	Extrathymic T cell tolerance to Ags can be achieved through clonal deletion by activation-induced programmed cell death as well as by functional unresponsiveness (anergy) of Ag reactive-T cells. Previous studies demonstrated that in vivo administration of staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) induces SEB-specific T cell anergy. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of T cell anergy, we analyzed the TCR-mediated signal transduction in normal and anergic T cells. Anergic T cells exhibited impaired protein tyrosine phosphorylation on TCR-mediated stimulation. The altered tyrosine phosphorylation in anergic T cells may be caused by a defect in tyrosine phosphorylation of TCR zeta-chain and its subsequent association with ZAP-70 tyrosine kinase. Our data demonstrated that TCR zeta-chain phosphorylation and its sequential interaction with ZAP-70 are essential for the initiation of TCR-mediated signal transduction.
Triggering of a sustained calcium response through a p56lck-dependent pathway by exogenous ganglioside GM1 in human T lymphocytes.	Various biologic effects induced by free external gangliosides, including cell-signaling events, have been described in several cell systems. We show in this report that free monosialoganglioside GM1, following its rapid and saturable binding to the cell membrane of human Jurkat T cells, triggers in a few seconds a sustained elevation of the intracellular free calcium concentration. It also induces in parallel the early tyrosine phosphorylation of numerous proteins, including phospholipase C gamma-1. Parallel experiments performed with asialo-GM1 or the ceramide part of the molecule do not reproduce these effects, demonstrating the prominent role played by the sialylated part of the ganglioside. A marked conversion of the T cell-specific tyrosine kinase p56lck to a slow migrating 60-kDa form is also found following GM1 addition. It is accompanied in the same time by an increased kinase activity in p56lck immunoprecipitates. Finally, the marked calcium response and tyrosine phosphorylations triggered by GM1 cannot be observed in a p56lck-negative T cell variant. Together these results demonstrate that the monosialoganglioside GM1 can behave as an authentic activation molecule on human T lymphocytes, likely through a p56lck tyrosine kinase-dependent pathway.
IL-4 expression in human T cells is selectively inhibited by IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta.	Imbalances in anti-inflammatory and proinflammatory cytokines may be responsible for initiation or progression of diverse pathologic states including autoimmune and infectious diseases. IL-4 production of proinflammatory cytokines and IL-12 promotes differentiation and activation of IFN-gamma-producing T cells, but does a counter-regulatory effect of proinflammatory cytokines on IL-4 production exist? This study evaluates the effect of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-alpha) on IL-4 production in primary human T cell cultures. PBMCs from healthy individuals were tested for IL-4 production in response to PHA and various cytokines. IL-4 was measured by proliferation of the IL-4-sensitive T cell line (CT.h4S) or ELISA. IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta inhibited IL-4 production by 20 to 80% in > 92% of healthy individuals (p = 0.0001, paired t-test). IL-12 had an inhibitory effect on PBMC IL-4 production as previously described, but neither IL-6 nor TNF-alpha inhibited IL-4 production. IL-1 had no effect on PHA-induced PBMC or purified T cell proliferation or IL-2 production. IL-4 production by purified T cells stimulated by PHA or the combination of PMA with calcium ionophore (A23187) was inhibited by IL-1, and reconstitution with peripheral blood-derived adherent macrophages had no effect. IL-12 did not inhibit IL-4 production in stimulated purified T cells. Steady state IL-4 mRNA levels were determined by semiquantitative competitive reverse transcribed PCR (RT-PCR). Marked inhibition of IL-4 mRNA levels were seen at 5 h after exposure to IL-1. This interaction between IL-1 and IL-4 may be an important physiologic regulator of the balance between proinflammatory cytokines from activated macrophages and anti-inflammatory cytokines from T cells.
Effect of corticosteroids on the human immune response: comparison of one and three daily 1 gm intravenous pulses of methylprednisolone.	In spite of the increasing use of  single and multiple pharmacologic intravenous pulses of MPS for immunosuppression in various diseases, their immunosuppressive effects have not been documented. We treated two groups of six patients with classic RA unresponsive to conventional therapy with either one or three daily 1 gm intravenous doses of MPS and measured the immune response and clinical activity over 16 weeks. Lymphocytopenia with selective T lymphocyte suppression was noted 2 hr following each infusion, which was maximal at 6 hr with complete recovery 24 hr after each dose beyond which no lymphocytopenia or T lymphocyte depletion was seen. Preservation of skin test positivity to recall antigens such as PPD and histoplasmin, rise in antibody titers to the secondary antigens tetanus and typhoid, and primary antibody response to KLH were found in both groups after treatment. Serum gamma globulin concentrations were unchanged. Five of six patients receiving 3 doses and three of six receiving 1 dose had satisfactory improvement in clinical parameters, with maximal benefit seen within the first 4 days. Six patients still felt better at 4 weeks, and one patient in each group entered a clinical remission greater than 16 weeks. We conclude that higher and repeated doses of MPS caused neither greater lymphocytopenia nor more prolonged suppression of recirculating lymphocytes than the conventional oral doses. The clinical benefits stem from reduction of inflammation, and it is doubtful that pulse therapy by itself induced significant generalized immunosuppression.
Immunomodulating activity of tetracyclic triterpene glycosides of the dammarane and holostane series]	Immunomodulating activity of triterpene glycosides of the holostan series (holoturins A and B, holoturin A2 and holotoxin A1) and triterpene glycosides of the dammaran series (3-O-monoglycoside,12-O-monoglycoside and 20-O-monoglycoside of protopanaxadiol and 3-O-monoglycoside of betulafolientriol) was studied in vitro. In low concentrations the triterpene glycosides showed mitogenic activity and modulated the immune response. The similarity in the action of the glycosides was first of all observed with respect to the dose-dependent duality of their effects i.e. the diametrically opposite action of the high and low doses. The expression of the effects was likely determined by the chemical structure of the triterpene glycosides. Liberation of the soluble mediators served as a secondary signal to the clonal expansion and differentiation of the cells.
V beta-specific immunotoxin selectively kills acetylcholine receptor-reactive T lymphocytes from mice with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.	Immunization of C57BL/6 mice with purified acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is known to induce a T cell-dependent antibody response that results in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Since past observations link V beta 6+ T cells with a prominent AChR epitope specificity, a V beta 6-specific immunotoxin (VIT6) was tested in vitro for its ability to selectively kill monoclonal and polyclonal T cells that demonstrate reactivity against AChR. Results described below clearly demonstrate the ability to selectively kill AChR-reactive T cells based on their expression of a particular V beta-associated antigen receptor.
Inhibition of cytokine production from human peripheral blood leukocytes by anti-allergic agents in vitro.	The influence of anti-allergic drugs on lymphocyte function was investigated by examining the blastic activity and cytokine production of human peripheral blood leukocytes in response to concanavalin A stimulation in vitro. Addition of ketotifen, disodium cromoglycate and oxatomide did not influence peripheral blood leukocyte blastic activity even when high concentrations (10.0 micrograms/ml) of these drugs were added to cell cultures. However, azelastine and terfenadine caused inhibition of peripheral blood leukocyte activation. Interleukin-2, interleukin-3, interleukin-4 and interleukin-5 production from peripheral blood leukocytes was strongly suppressed when the cells were cultured in the presence of these agents. This suppression was observed even when lower concentrations (1.0 and 0.5 micrograms/ml) of these agents were added to the cultures.
Low doses of low molecular weight heparin in vivo inhibits the elicitation of contact hypersensitivity.	Low-dose low molecular heparin inhibits T lymphocyte-mediated autoimmune disease and allograft reactions in mice in vivo and in vitro. High doses of heparin are not effective. The purpose of this preliminary study was to analyze the effect of low-dose, low molecular weight heparin (Enoxaparin, Clexane) on the expression of patch testing in patients with contact dermatitis. Eleven patients with allergic contact dermatitis, and positive patch tests reactions, were given a single subcutaneous injection of Clexane 3 mg (0.03 ml) and were reevaluated for positive reactions after the injection. Eight out of 21 positive reactions (38%) became negative after the injection and 4 out of 21 reactions (19%) changed from ++ before the injection to + after. An impressive improvement was observed in 3 patients with chronic allergic contact dermatitis. Low-dose low molecular weight heparin inhibits the elicitation of allergic contact dermatitis.
Regulation of protein kinase enzymatic activity in Jurkat T cells during oxidative stress uncoupled from protein tyrosine kinases: role of oxidative changes in protein kinase activation requirements and generation of second messengers.	Prior studies have suggested that intracellular phosphorylation events and cellular redox mechanisms may interact in regulating a variety of cellular functions, including the transcriptional activation of gene expression. Increased activity of transcriptional factors NF kappa B and AP1 has been described in cells exposed to oxidative stress and following the direct stimulation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol diesters. However, the mechanisms that may contribute to redox regulation of PKC are unknown. We studied the expression of PKC activity and several second messengers in human Jurkat T cells exposed to oxidative stress in the form of H2O2. Micromolar concentrations of H2O2 rapidly induced increased cytosolic PKC enzymatic activity in Jurkat T cells that was associated with a marked arrest of cellular proliferation. The increase in cytosolic PKC activity in cells treated with H2O2 was accompanied by elevations in intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i), generation of inositol phosphates, and release of arachidonic acid. Functional studies showed that H2O2 enhancement of cytosolic PKC activity required phospholipase C activity but was not primarily mediated by arachidonic acid. The response of PKC to oxidative stress displayed a lack of Ca2+ dependence and was uncoupled from the activity of protein tyrosine kinases (PTK). Furthermore, the reduced activation requirements of PKC from cells treated with H2O2 were associated with shifts in elution profiles of PKC enzymatic activity after Mono-Q chromatography. These shifts appeared to represent intrinsic changes in the conformation of PKC induced by oxidative stress because western blotting failed to reveal any PKC cleavage products or reductions in native PKC alpha or beta. These findings indicate that oxidative regulation of intracellular events can intersect phosphorylation events mediated by PKC through the release of second messengers as well as direct changes in PKC activation requirements. Moreover, redox regulation of PKC is distinct from T cell receptor signaling in that the activity of PKC is uncoupled from the regulatory influences of PTK.
Characterization of interleukin-4 receptors expressed on human renal cell carcinoma cells.	We have recently reported that a variety of solid human tumor cells express high-affinity interleukin-4 receptors (IL-4R). In this study, we have compared structural characteristics of IL-4R expressed on human renal cell carcinoma cells (RCC-WS) and the lymphoid cell lines RAJI (B-cell line) and H9 (T-cell line). In crosslinking studies, the three cell types expressed a predominant 140 kDa IL-4R band. In addition, a 70 kDa band was expressed strongly in H9 cells but only faintly on RCC-WS and RAJI cells. These different species of IL-4R were not observed when crosslinking studies were performed in the presence of excess interleukin-4 (IL-4), indicating IL-4 specificity. A polyclonal anti-IL-4R antibody immunoprecipitated the two species (140 and 70 kDa) in H9 and predominantly the 140 kDa species in RCC-WS tumor cells and RAJI cells. A faint band for the 70 kDa protein was also observed. The affinity of IL-4 binding to its receptor in RCC-WS cells was similar to the binding affinity observed in H9 and RAJI cells examined. However, the RCC tumor cells and B lymphoid cells internalized IL-4R more rapidly compared to T lymphoid cells. Although IL-4R synthesis was similarly inhibited by cycloheximide in all three cell lines, IL-4R expression was more sensitive to actinomycin D inhibition on the RCC-WS and RAJI cells than on H9 cells. Our results suggest that IL-4R expressed on RCC-WS tumor cells are structurally different from those expressed on lymphoid cells because the proportions of IL-4R subunits differ in these cells. Further studies should be performed to determine the identity and functional significance of IL-4R proteins expressed on RCC and immune cells.
Cyclosporin A inhibits 2-chloroadenosine-induced DNA cleavage in mouse thymocytes.	Incubation of mouse thymocytes with the adenosine analogue 2-chloroadenosine resulted in enhanced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation which could be inhibited by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A. In order to be effective, cyclosporin A had to be added to thymocyte preparations at the same time as 2-chloroadenosine. Since cyclosporin A is a selective inhibitor of calcineurin, our data suggest a possible role for calcineurin as a signaling intermediate in the apoptotic pathway activated in thymocytes through adenosine receptors. However, at the present time we cannot exclude the possibility that the inhibitory effect of cyclosporin A on 2-chloroadenosine-induced apoptosis may be mediated through a calcineurin-independent process.
Role of non-protein factor of splenin in the regulation of antibody formation]	Non-protein factor of splenin that possesses T-mitogen activity under experimental conditions reproduces immunomodulatory action of the native drug in what concerns regulation of immunoglobulin synthesis. Premedication of CBA mice with the isolated factor increases primary immune response to ram erythrocytes by 64%. When immediate allergic reaction develops in Wistar rats and BALB/c mice this factor suppresses IgE-antibody production via stimulation of suppressors T-cells.
Human recombinant interferon gamma in the treatment of atopic dermatitis]	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic relapsing skin disease characterized by various immunologic abnormalities. We have studied the efficacy of recombinant human interferon gamma (rhINF-gamma) administered subcutaneously at a dose of 0.05 mg/m2 in ten patients with severe AD. Patients were treated for 4 weeks. They have shown marked clinical improvement starting from the third week of treatment. The efficacy of the drug varied, with erythema, dryness and lichenification being the most responsive symptoms. There was no change in serum immunoglobulin E and IgG4 levels. Whole blood eosinophil count decreased only transiently and was accompanied by a tendency to lower values of serum eosinophil cationic protein. Patient with AD showed an increased expression of a T-cell surface activation marker CD 25 as compared to healthy controls. Moreover, clinical improvement was roughly paralleled by the decrease in this T-cell activation marker. We conclude that rhINF-gamma is a novel efficacious therapeutic approach in severe AD. We suggest that its primary action might be related to the inhibition of T-cell activation.
Molecular parameters for the anti-human immunodeficiency virus activity of T22 ([Tyr5,12, Lys7]-polyphemusin II).	T22 ([Tyr5,12, Lys7]-polyphemusin II) was found to exhibit strong anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity and exert its effects on a virus-cell fusion process. In the present study, the all-D enantiomer of T22 and its related compounds were synthesized to examine the molecular parameters required for the interaction of T22 with membrane components of cells or viruses in order to exert this anti-HIV activity. The anti-HIV activity of these analogs was investigated in comparison with their membrane permeability with aspect to large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs). The all-D enantiomer of T22 exhibited a 20-fold lower anti-HIV activity compared with T22, whereas they both showed the same membrane permeability. No positive correlation between anti-HIV activity and membrane permeability was observed. These results suggest that the anti-HIV activity of T22 is mediated through the interaction with chiral component(s) of the cell or virus.
Fluorescent monitoring of Jurkatt cell intracellular magnesium during metabolic poisoning.	Divalent cation movement characterizes the final common pathway of cellular death from ischemic or metabolic injury. The influx of calcium is an essential step in cellular death. We hypothesized that intracellular magnesium levels may change during the progression to cellular death. Verapamil-sensitive changes in free ionized intracellular Mg2+ ([Mg2+[i) and Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) levels were estimated in transformed T-lymphocytes exposed to metabolic inhibitors. Separate experiments used a Mg(2+)-sensitive fluoroprobe, fura-2 (Ex 1,344, Ex 2,376, Em 500), and a Ca(2+)-sensitive fluoroprobe, fura-2 (Ex 1,340, Ex 2,380, Em 510). Chemical anoxia (sodium cyanide 1 mM, iodoacetic acid 10 mM) caused a gradual increase in [Ca2+]i (control 126 +/- 13 nM) to > 1 mM by 10 min. This increase in [Ca2+]i was not affected by verapamil treatment. In separate experiments, [Mg2+]i levels were monitored during chemical anoxia. The specificity of mag-fura for Mg2+ over Ca2+ was reflected in the absence of a response to the lymphocyte Ca2+ mobilizer OKT-3. Uncorrected control [Mg2+]i levels (.4 +/- .1 mM) were not affected by the combined cyanide-iodoacetate treatment. A small increase in mag-fura-2 fluorescence was noted, probably due to binding of Ca2+ to the fluoroprobe when [Ca2]i exceeded 1 mM. Elimination of Ca2+ from the extracellular buffer increased the resting estimate of intracellular [Mg2+] to 1.6 + .1 mM. These results indicate that 1) extracellular Ca2+ can interfere with the fluorescent determination of intracellular magnesium concentration, and 2) intracellular free Mg2+ concentrations do not change in this cell line during chemical anoxia.
Agonistic and antagonistic properties of CD40 mAb G28-5 are dependent on binding valency.	CD40 functional responses can be triggered by binding of mAb G28-5. Here we show that G28-5 induces partial CD40 responses and functions as a partial antagonist of natural CD40 ligand, gp39, by preventing gp39 binding. Fab fragments of G28-5 retain inhibitory activity but lose crosslinking-dependent stimulatory activity. The synergistic interaction of CD40 signals with PMA or CD20 show differential requirements for CD40 crosslinking and different sensitivity to cyclosporine A, suggesting that CD40 receptor may use different effector mechanisms for synergy with calcium-dependent CD20 signals or with calcium-independent signals from PMA. Activation of NF-kappa B occurred in RAJI cells by G28-5 or by gp39 treatment, and was CD40 crosslinking-dependent. These results suggest that activation of NF-kappa B is involved in some CD40 receptor signals and may be related to CD40 effects on stimulation or inhibition of apotosis.
Actions of alcohol on immunity and neoplasia in fetal alcohol exposed and adult rats.	Alterations of immune function can result not only from alcohol consumption by the adult human or animal, but also from fetal alcohol exposure (FAE). We have demonstrated long-lasting effects of FAE on T cell function and effects of adult ethanol (EtOH) consumption on tumorigenesis. Here, we present recent data that demonstrate that 1) FAE alters the biphasic pattern of thymocyte activation during peripubertal development probably due to effects other than the CD3 pathway; and 2) the long-lasting impaired proliferative response of splenocytes from FAE rats is not due to loss of their ability to express interleukin-2 receptors (IL2R), thus reflecting interference with events following the IL2-IL2R interaction. We also provide direct evidence that acute in vivo administration of EtOH to adult Fisher 344 rats can suppress blood natural killer (NK) cytotoxicity and that such suppression mediates the observed enhanced metastatic growth of a syngeneic mammary tumor.
Successful in vivo generation of canine lymphokine-activated killer cells by continuous recombinant interleukin-2 infusion through the splenic artery.	We studied the efficacy of infusing human recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) through the splenic artery for generation of lynphokine activated killer (LAK) cells in vivo in a canine system. Catheters were inserted into the splenic artery, portal vein and inferior vena cava (IVC) in Beagle dogs. IL-2 was administered continuously through either the splenic artery or IVC by portable infusion pump and the cytotoxic activity of portal vein blood lymphocytes (PVBL) and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) against canine osteosarcoma D-17 target cells was monitored. Following administration low-dose IL-2 (8 x 10(5) IU/day) for 6 days through the splenic artery, LAK precursor cells were present, but not following administration intravenously. Interestingly, when a high dose of IL-2 (4 x 10(6) IU/day on days 1-6 and 13-18) was administered through the splenic artery, strong cytotoxicity was detected in PVBL and PBL without subsequent culture in vitro with IL-2, suggesting that an infusion rate of 4 x 10(6) IU/day IL-2 may be sufficient for generation of LAK cells in vivo. These results suggest that continuous infusion of IL-2 through the splenic artery can generate LAK cells more easily and may prove especially useful for the immunotherapy of hepatic micrometastasis.
In situ hybridization and cytofluorometric analysis of cytokine mRNA during in vitro activation of human T cells.	We present an original method for in situ hybridization (ISH) using non isotopic probes and flow cytometry analysis that permits rapid detection of lymphokine transcripts at single cell level in an in vitro activated human Jurkat T cell line and in peripheral blood T cell subsets. After PMA and either ionomycin or ConA stimulation, cells were fixed and hybridized with digoxigenin (DIG)-labelled RNA antisense or sense probes specific for IL-2 and IFN-gamma. The level of cytokine gene expression in individual cells was visualised using FITC-conjugated anti-DIG antibody, and the resultant signal was analysed by flow cytometry. IL-2 mRNA was first detected in activated Jurkat T cells. Addition of cycloheximide 4 hours after the beginning of stimulation increased both the frequency of labelled cells and the amount of mRNA per cell, as determined by the mean fluorescence intensity. The specificity and sensitivity of IL-2 mRNA detection were tested by comparison with Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization (ISH) with immuno-cytochemical staining. IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA were detectable in PBMC as early as 3 hours after in vitro stimulation with PMA and ionomycin. The frequency of positive cells and the amount of mRNA per cell peaked at 6-8 hours, when the percentages of IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA-containing cells reached 30-40% and 15-20%, respectively. The two lymphokines were expressed in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, but the frequency of IL-2 expressing cells and the amount of IL-2 mRNA per cell were higher in CD4+ (60%) than in CD8+ T cells (25%), whereas IFN-gamma were preferentially transcribed by CD8+ T cells (40%). The results obtained by this method were in accordance with the data obtained by Northern blot analysis, with cellular protein content estimated by immuno-fluorescence staining, and with IL-2 titration by bioassay. We compared the performance of this method with ISH using radioactive probes.
Immunotherapy of a vaccinia colon oncolysate prepared with interleukin-2 gene-encoded vaccinia virus and interferon-alpha increases the survival of mice bearing syngeneic colon adenocarcinoma.	Therapeutic effect of a vaccinia colon oncolysate prepared with interleukin-2 (IL-2) gene-encoded vaccinia virus (IL-2VCO) in combination with recombinant interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) was studied in a syngeneic murine CC-36 colon hepatic metastasis model. Treatment with this IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha produced a higher survival rate (90% on day 60 after tumor transplantation) in mice having CC-36 hepatic metastases when compared to treatment with IFN-alpha (0%), VCO+IFN-alpha (0%), or IL-2VCO (11%). The only treatment that produced a survival rate similar to the survival rate of IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha was VCO+IL-2 + IFN-alpha (survival rate was 67%). The cause of the prolonged survival with the IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha treatment was identified as the reduction of CC-36 hepatic metastases (mean liver weight 1.31 g and mean tumor nodules 2). This reduction was significant when compared to IL-2VCO (1.58 g and 11), VCO+IFN-alpha (1.96 g and 53), and IFN-alpha (2.24 g and 91) treatments. The mechanism of the induction of antitumor response by the VCO+IL-2+IFN-alpha treatment was analyzed by measuring the direct cytotoxic activity of IFN-alpha on CC-36 tumor cells and by measuring the induction of cytolytic T-cell activity against CC-36 tumor cells. Results suggest that IFN-alpha produced minimal direct cytotoxic activity against CC-36 cells; however, the IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha combination therapy induced an enhanced cytolytic T-cell activity against CC-36 tumor cells (85.1% at E:T 100:1) when compared to other treatments (IL-2VCO 26.3%, VCO+IFN-alpha 13.4%, and IFN-alpha alone 6.3%). In addition, the role of T-cell subsets for the induction of antitumor immune response was analyzed in a survival study that used CD8-positive T cell-depleted mice. It was found that the survival rate was affected in mice depleted with CD8-positive T cells and treated with IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha when compared to control mice which had no T-cell depletion and were treated with IL-2VCO+IFN-alpha. This study suggests that the addition of IFN-alpha along with IL-2VCO increased the survival rate of mice having CC-36 hepatic metastases through the induction of CD8-positive T cells. Furthermore, this study confirms that IL-2VV can be used as a substitute for recombinant IL-2 in cytokine-augmented active specific immunotherapy.
The regulation of HIV by retinoic acid correlates with cellular expression of the retinoic acid receptors.	To analyze the effect of retinoic acids (RA) on HIV-1 expression and correlate this effect with expression levels of RA receptors (RARs) in T-lymphoid and monocytoid cell lines.
Stimulation of glutathione peroxidase activity decreases HIV type 1 activation after oxidative stress.	Am important aspect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection is the regulation of its expression by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) by redox-controlled signal transduction pathways. In this study, we demonstrate that selenium supplementation can effectively increase glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity in latently infected T lymphocytes. The Se-supplemented cells exhibited an important protection against the cytotoxic and reactivating effects of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Concomitantly, NF-kappa B activation by H2O2 was also decreased in Se-supplemented cells. Selenium stimulation of GPx activity also induces a protective effect against cell activation by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) but less significantly by phorbol esters such as PMA. These Se-mediated effects were specific because they were not found when AP-1 DNA-binding activity was studied after H2O2-induced stress. Hyperthermia was also studied because it could promote intracellular electron leakage in electron transport chains. Elevating the temperature to 42 degrees C did not induce NF-kappa B directly. Rather, it sensitized infected cells to subsequent oxidative stress by H2O2, demonstrating the importance of hyperthermia, often associated with opportunistic infections in the development of immunodeficiency. In this case, Se induced partial protection against the sensitizing effect of hyperthermia.
Calmodulin antagonists inhibit human immunodeficiency virus-induced cell fusion but not virus replication.	We have reported that amphipathic helical segments in the cytoplasmic domain of the HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins bind to calmodulin (CaM) with high affinity, and inhibit calmodulin-regulated proteins. To investigate the possible role of calmodulin activity in HIV-1 replication, we investigated the anti-HIV activity of various CaM antagonists--trifluoperazine and naphthalenesulfonamide W13 or W7--in HeLa T4 cells, PBMCs, and various T lymphocytic cell lines. The different CaM antagonists were found to inhibit the proliferation of the different cell types to varying extent. Also, the CaM antagonists were found to exert a greater antiproliferative effect on H9/HIV-1IIIB, as compared to uninfected H9 cells, suggesting a deficit of CaM function in HIV-infected cells. The CaM antagonists inhibited virus-induced cell fusion in HeLa T4 cells infected with a recombinant vaccinia virus expressing HIV-1 envelope proteins at threshold concentrations that do not inhibit cell proliferation. The fusion-inhibitory effects of the CaM antagonists were also observed in cocultures of HIV-infected (H9/HIV-1IIIB) and uninfected H9 cells. Under these conditions, the synthesis and surface expression of the viral glycoproteins were not affected, although the kinetics of processing of HIV envelope precursor was delayed. Virus production from both HIV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and MT-2 cell cultures was inhibited by CaM antagonists at concentrations that were inhibitory to cell proliferation. Surprisingly, threshold concentrations of CaM antagonists that do not inhibit cell proliferation were found to enhance virus production from HIV-infected MT-2 cells, but not PBMCs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A recombinant single-chain antibody interleukin-2 fusion protein.	Recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) therapy has been shown to be of value in the treatment of some cases of melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. However, its use can be limited by severe systemic toxicity. Targeting rIL-2 to the tumor should improve the antitumor immune response and decrease the systemic toxicity. With this aim, we have employed recombinant DNA techniques to construct a single-chain antibody interleukin-2 fusion protein (SCA-IL-2). The protein used in this model system consists of the variable domains of the antilysozyme antibody D1.3 fused to human IL-2 and is expressed in E. coli. It retains antigen-binding specificity and has the full biological activity of rIL-2. This approach can be taken to generate SCA-IL-2 proteins that bind to appropriate cellular antigens. In vivo administration of tumor-binding SCA-IL-2 should result in a localized high concentration of rIL-2 in the tumor tissues, maximizing the anti-tumor response while keeping systemic side effects to a minimum.
Effect of phytohaemagglutinin on CD45 in T cells.	In this study the effect of PHA activation on the phosphatase activity of CD45 has been investigated in human leukemic T-cell lines. It has been found that in vivo activation of the cells with PHA resulted in 2-4-fold increase in enzyme activity. Addition of PHA to the postnuclear supernatant of cell lysates also resulted in elevation of phosphatase activity. Elevation of enzyme activity resulted from an increase in the amount of antigen in the immunoprecipitates. Elevation of the quantity was not the result of a de novo protein synthesis since the presence of cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, did not modulate the effect of PHA. The effect of PHA was specific since ConA, that also bound to the CD45 molecules, or crosslinking of the antigen by antibody did not affect CD45. Since direct binding of PHA to CD45 molecules was shown in immunoblotting analysis, we suggest that the effect of PHA is a consequence of a PHA-induced conformational change of CD45 that results in up-regulation of the analyzed CD45 epitopes.
A comparative study of inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, trypsin, neuropathy target esterase, and spleen cell activation by structurally related organophosphorus compounds.	Organophosphorus (OP) compounds can bind to and inactivate several target molecules other than acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In the present study, five sets of structurally related organophosphorus compounds were used to evaluate the relationships between organophosphorus binding sites of AChE, neuropathy target esterase (NTE), trypsin, and the target molecule(s) involved in inhibition of splenocyte activation by OP compounds. The concentration of each OP compound required to inhibit enzyme activity or splenocyte activation by concanavalin A by 50% was determined. The pattern of IC50 values indicated that AChE, trypsin, NTE, and the molecule(s) involved in inhibition of splenocyte activation are distinct with regard to patterns of inhibition by OP compounds. However, there was a striking similarity in the patterns of inhibition for trypsin and NTE with substantial differences for only 2 of 20 compounds. This pattern suggests similarity in the active sites of these molecules. There were also similarities in the IC50 patterns for lymphocyte activation and trypsin or NTE activity. However, the correlation was not as strong as between NTE and trypsin, and the data suggested the possibility of multiple target molecules for inhibition of splenocyte activation by OP compounds. More importantly, there was essentially no correlation between the pattern of IC50 values for AChE and splenocyte activation. This strongly suggests that acetylcholine and AChE of the type found in the brain are not important in the regulation of splenocyte activation by concanavalin A.
Proliferation of nickel-sensitive human lymphocytes by corrosion products of orthodontic appliances.	Lymphocyte transformation tests were performed on peripheral blood taken from individuals with a history of contact dermatitis who also presented with a positive patch test to nickel sulphate, and from individuals with no history of contact dermatitis. The results implied that nickel leached out from metallic orthodontic appliances in sufficient amounts and of a chemical nature adequate to stimulate proliferation of lymphocytes from some of the nickel-sensitive subjects.
Synthesis of an immunologically active analog of thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 with enhanced enzymatic stability.	Acetyl-thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 chloromethyl ketone [Ac-Leu-Glu-Asp-Gly-Pro-Lys-Phe-Leu-CH2Cl], an analog of thymic humoral factor-gamma 2, was synthesized and studied for its immunological effects on the impaired blastogenic response of T-lymphocytes isolated from uremic patients. Synthetic thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 and the synthetic acetyl-thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 chloromethyl ketone both restored the impaired blastogenic response of T-lymphocytes of uremic patients. However, the synthetic thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 is susceptible to proteolytic digestion. On the other hand, the synthetic acetylthymic humoral factor-gamma 2 chloromethyl ketone retained activity and was shown to exhibit a high degree of stability when incubated in human serum, These results indicate that N-terminal acetylation and the introduction of a chloromethyl ketone residue into the C-terminal residue of thymic humoral factor-gamma 2 increase resistance to proteolytic degradation by exopeptidases without loss of immunological activity.
Analysis of 3' terminals of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcripts in persistently infected cells.	To examine the 3' terminal processing of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transcripts and the effects of phorbol ester (TPA) on this processing, cellular RNAs from persistently infected T cells (MOLT-4) or promonocytes (U937), with or without TPA treatment, were analyzed. To map the 3' terminals of viral transcripts, the RNA samples were examined by RNase-protection assay with an HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR) antisense riboprobe. Without TPA treatment, the viral transcripts initiated at the cap site in 5' LTR and polyadenylated at poly(A) site in 3' LTR were dominantly detected in both types of cells. This analysis demonstrated that some occlusion mechanism inactivating the poly(A) site in 5' LTR might exist in these infected cells. After TPA treatment, we found a dramatic shift in the protected patterns of viral transcripts in MOLT-4 cells, while the shift in U937 cells was less dramatic. These results suggested that the primary factor(s) involved in the observed effect of TPA might be cellular. We also demonstrated that the shift in the protected patterns of viral transcripts was associated with increased steady-state levels of viral transcripts. These results indicated that the factors involved in the TPA-induced shift might have some relation to the trans-activation of HIV-1 by similar substances.
Effects of single dose compared with three days' prednisolone treatment of healthy volunteers: contrasting effects on circulating lymphocyte subsets.	To investigate the effects of longer term corticosteroid treatment on circulating lymphocyte subsets.
Cladribine (2-chloro-deoxyadenosine, CDA): an inhibitor of human B and T cell activation in vitro.	We have previously shown that the novel immunosuppressive agent cladribine (CDA) inhibits human T and B cell lymphoproliferative responses and immunoglobulin synthesis in vitro, yet appears to be particularly efficacious as an inhibitor of B cell responses. We now report the effects of CDA on the human mixed lymphocyte reaction and on expression of T and B cell activation markers. CDA produced a significant inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation in human mixed lymphocyte reactions at a concentration of 10 nM. At concentrations of 10-100 nM the drug inhibited phytohaemagglutinin-induced expression of CD25 and HLA-D (by approximately 50%), but not phorbol myristate acetate-induced expression of CD69 on purified human T cells. At a concentration of 10 nM CDA totally abolished Staphylococcus aureus Cowan-induced expression of CD25 on purified B cells. These findings confirm that CDA is a potent immunosuppressive agent with some selectivity towards B cells. The drug may have potentially wide applications in clinical immunosuppression.
Influence of physiological concentration of progesterone on CD(4+)- and CD(8+)-activated lymphocytes with interleukin 2 and autologous plasma: difference between healthy donors and patients bearing malignant tumors.	The influence of progesterone at the physiological concentration on normal donor and malignant patient peripheral blood lymphocytes incubated with interleukin 2 (IL-2) was investigated. Analysis of the phenotypes of IL-2-activated lymphocytes revealed that there was a difference in the positive rates of CD4+ and CD8+ cells between normal donors and patients with malignancies. Activated lymphocytes of normal adults older than 35 years of age consisted of 60-100% of CD4+ cells and 0-30% of CD8+ cells. Donors younger than 35 years of age showed a positive rate of CD4+ cells, ranging from 0-100%, while CD8+ cells were between 0-60%. However, in patients with malignancies both CD4+ and CD(8+)-activated lymphocytes diffused from 0-100%. Activated lymphocytes of most patients were CD8+ cell dominant, which reversed the CD4+/CD8+ ratio. Almost all patients at clinical stage IV showed a deviation of the positive rates of CD4+ and CD8+ cells from the normal range. It is an open question whether the prognosis of the patients with normal positive rates of CD(4+)- and CD(8+)-activated lymphocytes is favorable or not.
Pertussis toxin interferes with superantigen-induced deletion of peripheral T cells without affecting T cell activation in vivo. Inhibition of deletion and associated programmed cell death depends on ADP-ribosyltransferase activity.	Intravenous injection of a bacterial superantigen such as Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin B (SEB) causes transient activation and expansion of SEB-reactive V beta 8+ T cells, as well as specific down-regulation of the immune response, through partial deletion of superantigen-reactive T cells. Here we demonstrate that co-administration of pertussis toxin (PTX) and SEB reduces the SEB-induced deletion of V beta 8+ T cells, although it does not affect T cell activation and proliferation. PTX abrogates the SEB-driven deletion of V beta 8+CD4+ (not V beta 8+CD8+) splenocytes that is observed early (12-24 h) after SEB injection. Moreover, it antagonizes the late (> or = 4 days) deletion of V beta 8+CD4+ and V beta 8+CD8+ peripheral T cells that follows transient expansion of such cells. This phenomenon is associated with significant reductions in apoptosis and endonucleolysis and is not caused by a compensatory increase in proliferation of SEB-reactive T cells, as we determined by using a combined fluorometric analysis of cell cycle and DNA alterations, which are associated with programmed cell death. These effects are also observed in thymectomized animals, thus excluding the possibility that PTX might act by enhancing the maturation and export of thymic T cells to the periphery. Moreover, the SEB-induced reduction of V beta 8+ splenocytes is antagonized by PTX in vitro. The capacity of PTX to reduce clonal deletion depends critically on its ADP-ribosyltransferase activity, inasmuch as a non-enzymatic PTX mutant fails to act in this biologic system. We conclude that PTX selectively antagonizes or impedes the delivery of negative signals to T cells, which are stimulated by superantigens, without interfering with the transmission of stimulatory signals.
Calmodulin regulates the expression of cdks, cyclins and replicative enzymes during proliferative activation of human T lymphocytes.	Cell cycle is regulated by the activation of complexes of cyclins and cyclin-dependent protein kinases at specific points. Quiescent cells lack both cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases but their expression is induced after proliferative activation. Cyclin A/cdk2 complexes are involved in the onset of DNA replication whereas cyclin B/cdc2 trigger mitosis. We report here that Ca2+ and calmodulin regulate the expression of cdk2, cdc2, cyclin B and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (a co-factor of DNA polymerase-delta) in human T lymphocytes. Likewise, the expression of cdk4, cyclin A and DNA polymerase-alpha is dependent of the synergistic effect of both the Ca2+/calmodulin and the protein kinase C pathways. Thus, calmodulin controls DNA synthesis by regulating the levels of cdk2 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen and mitosis entry by modulating the expression of cyclin B and cdc2.
Effect of glutathione depletion and oral N-acetyl-cysteine treatment on CD4+ and CD8+ cells.	HIV-infected individuals and SIV-infected rhesus macaques have, on the average, decreased plasma cysteine and cystine concentrations and decreased intracellular glutathione levels. We show that the cysteine supply and the intracellular glutathione levels have a strong influence on the T cell system. A study of healthy human subjects revealed that persons with intracellular glutathione levels of 20-30 nmol/mg protein had significantly higher numbers of CD4+ T cells than persons with either lower or higher glutathione levels. Persons who moved during a 4-week observation period from the optimal to the suboptimal range (10-20 nmol/mg) experienced, on the average, a 30% decrease in CD4+ T cell numbers. This decrease was prevented by treatment with N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC). NAC caused this relative increase of CD4+ T cell numbers in spite of decreasing glutathione levels and not by increasing the glutathione level. Our studies suggest that the immune system may be exquisitely sensitive not only against a cysteine and glutathione deficiency but also against an excess of cysteine.
Reciprocal regulation of K+ channels by Ca2+ in intact human T lymphocytes.	The requirement for increased [Ca2+]i during T cell activation is well established. In the present study, we have used the cell-attached configuration of the patch-clamp technique and Ca2+ spectrofluorometry to investigate the regulation of K+ channel activity by intracellular calcium [Ca2+]i in intact human T lymphocytes. The predominant ion current in resting human T cells is a voltage-dependent K+ current, K(V), which is susceptible to second-messenger regulation. We report here that K(V) channel activity is reversibly inhibited at all relevant membrane potentials by a rise in [Ca2+]i induced by Ca2+ ionophore or the mitogens, concanavalin A or phytohemagglutinin. Consistent with this Ca2+ dependence, lowering [Ca2+]i with Ca(2+)-depleted medium can induce K(V) channel activity in otherwise quiet patches. We have also found two Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels (K(Ca)), a 9 pS channel and an inwardly rectifying 11-25 pS channel, similar to those we found in rat thymic T cells and human B cells. The sensitivity of these K(Ca) channels to [Ca2+]i suggests reciprocal regulation with that of K(V) channels. A considerable lag between mitogen treatment and induction of 9 pS K(Ca) activity, the decrease in this channel's activity in the continued presence of high [Ca2+]i or upon patch excision, and the decreased sensitivity of K(V) to Ca2+i block in disrupted cells all argue for the involvement of intracellular factors. During [Ca2+]i-mediated inhibition of K(V) channels, the recruitment of distinct K(Ca) channels is likely to play a central role in maintaining cell hyperpolarization and a sustained driving force for Ca2+ influx during T-cell activation.
Evaluation of the state of systemic and local cellular immunity using loading tests]	Local and systemic cellular immunity parameters of the blood and gastrointestinal mucosa were studied in 165 children suffering from chronic gastritis, duodenitis, celiac, secondary malabsorption syndrome, and phosphate diabetes by spontaneous E-RFC method with a number of loading tests in vitro. Thymalin, theophylline, cold incubation were used. Three types of T lymphocyte response were distinguished: the hypoergic, resistant, and hyperergic. To make the interpretation of the findings easier, coefficients were calculated for each type of response of the blood and gastrointestinal mucosa immunocompetent cells.
The influence of long-term administration of Topa Peat Preparation on immune reactivity in mice. I. Morphological changes in the thymus.	In experiment I BALB/c 200 mice were given in drinking water the TPP (Topa Peat Preparation) in daily doses of 1, 10 and 50 mg/kg over the period of 3, 5, 7, 9 and 12 weeks. In experiment II before the administration of TPP (as in experiment I) mice were immunized with a single dose i.p. administration of 0.2 cm3 of a 10% suspension of sheep erythrocytes (SRBC), i.e. 4 x 10(8) cells. Histopathological and ultrastructural studies have shown that TPP in all three doses causes morphological changes characteristic of thymus activity stimulation. However, the doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg administered longer than 7 weeks caused retrograde changes that did not occur after administration of 1 mg/kg of TPP. Morphological changes in the thymus of immunized and non-immunized mice simultaneously receiving TPP were similar.
Oncogene expression in thymocytes after emetine treatment of mice.	Emetine (33 mg/kg IP) was used as an immunosuppressive agent to inhibit thymic development. The specific and reversible effect of emetine on the macromolecular biosynthesis of thymocytes provided an in vivo model to investigate cellular differentiation. Cortical cells emigrated upon emetine administration at the early stage of inhibition of macromolecular synthesis, followed by a repopulation stage and differentiation of the thymus. Early events of differentiation were measured by the gene expression of oncogenes showing a gradual decrease of c-myc mRNA level, a temporary decline in c-fos mRNA which was reversed at t = 72 h after emetine treatment. The two-fold increase in mRNA synthesis of c-src oncogene after emetine treatment was paralleled by a fivefold rise in total tyrosine kinase activity. The concomitant appearance of an M(r) = 60,000 protein a t = 96 h after emetine treatment may be an indication of the involvement of specific proteins in thymic development.
Parameters of cellular and humoral immunity in patients with diabetes mellitus in the early stages of disease development; experience in treatment with the immunosuppressant azathioprine]	A total of 40 patients with type I diabetes mellitus, in whom the disease was diagnosed 1 to 12 months previously, were examined. An imbalance between the T and B cellular components of the immunity was found in the patients with the early stages of the disease, as was an elevated titer of the complement C1 component as against the reference group. The degree of the immunologic shifts was in direct correlation with the HLA A9 antigen expression, this relationship being the most marked in cases with the HLA DR3 and DR4. The incidence of these antigens expression was significantly higher in the patients with marked immunity shifts, than in those with negligible immunity changes. Therapy with an immunosuppressant azathioprine was associated with a noticeable reduction of the initially elevated cellular immunity parameters (total T and B lymphocyte counts, T helpers-inductors, DR carriers) and a trend towards a reduction of all the components and total activity of the classical route of the complement activation predominantly at the expense of the C1 and C5 components. The efficacy of this drug in therapy of new cases of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus was confirmed, and the indisputable relationship between the efficacy of immunity suppression, that helped achieve a clinical remission, and the disease duration, was demonstrated. Monitoring of the cellular and humoral immunity parameters, of the activity of the classical route of the complement activation permitted an indirect judgement on the usefulness of immunity suppression for the correction of immunity disorders as factors contributing to the development of microvascular disturbances in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
The immunocorrective potentials of an antistaphylococcal immunosorbent in extracting staphylotoxin]	The immunocorrective effect of antistaphylococcal adsorbent prepared on the basis of silochrome, a silica matrix, has been revealed in experiments on peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from 18 donors. The expression of receptors on human immunoregulating cells has been suppressed by the addition of staphylotoxin at a toxic concentration into the system. The experiments have shown that immunosorption is capable of extracting the toxin from the solution to a considerable degree, thus preventing the suppression of the receptor apparatus of immunoregulating lymphocytes. Staphylotoxin has been found capable of forming complexes with plasma ingredients, which increases the adsorption capacity of the immunosorbent.
Case report: immunoglobulin A deficiency in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis treated with aspirin.	In three patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, serum IgA concentrations were within the normal limit at the onset of disease and before aspirin administration. After aspirin administration, their serum IgA levels gradually decreased. After discontinuation of aspirin, their serum IgA levels gradually increased. These results suggest that IgA deficiency may be due to aspirin administration in such patients. The IgA production in vitro of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from a patient taken 3 months of discontinuation of aspirin was markedly inhibited by preincubation with aspirin. Since the patients' serum IgG and IgM levels hardly changed the heavy chain class switching may be influenced by aspirin through some undefined mechanisms.
Mutagenicity of 1,3-butadiene and its epoxide metabolites in human TK6 cells and in splenic T cells isolated from exposed B6C3F1 mice.	The mutagenic potential of 1,3-butadiene and its epoxide metabolites have been measured in a human lymphoblastoid cell line (TK6) and in splenic T cells from exposed B6C3F1 mice. TK6 cells were exposed for 24 h to 0-400 microM 1,2-epoxybutene, 0-800 microM 3,4-epoxy-1,2-butanediol or 0-6 microM diepoxybutane and plated to measure the frequencies of mutations at the hprt and tk loci. All three metabolites were mutagenic at both loci, but diepoxybutane was active at concentrations 100 times lower than epoxybutene or epoxybutanediol. Mice exposed to 625 ppm butadiene for two weeks had an average hprt mutation frequency of 6.2 x 10(-6) in splenic T cells, whereas that in controls was 1.2 x 10(-6). In mice given three daily intraperitoneal doses of epoxybutene at 60, 80 and 100 mg/kg or diepoxybutane at 7, 14 and 21 mg/kg, the average hprt frequencies were 5.4, 4.1 and 8.6 x 10(-6) in those given epoxybutene and 4.6, 9.4 and 13 x 10(-6) in those treated with diepoxybutane. DNA sequencing revealed that 50% of the mutations induced in vivo by butadiene, epoxybutene and diepoxybutane were transition and transversion mutations at AT and GC base-pairs and 50% were frameshift mutations. The mutational spectra obtained are very similar to that produced by ethylene oxide, suggesting that these epoxides act through a similar mechanism.
Susceptibility to induction of chromosomal damage by metabolites of 1,3-butadiene and its relationship to 'spontaneous' sister chromatid exchange frequencies in human lymphocytes.	Occupational exposure to butadiene is associated with the occurrence of lymphohaematopoietic cancers. The mutagenicity of butadiene is thought to be mediated by its mono- and diepoxide metabolites, which are capable of binding to DNA. Diepoxybutane is the most potent genotoxic metabolite and is known to produce interstrand DNA cross-links. In order to study individual differences in response to the genotoxicity of diepoxybutane, we devised a human lymphocyte culture system that involves short-term culture of T lymphocytes and measurement of sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and chromosomal aberration frequency as genotoxic end-points. We observed that when lymphocytes from healthy individuals are exposed in vitro to 6 microM of diepoxybutane, the number of SCEs induced is distributed bimodally: about 20% of 173 healthy workers studied were twice as sensitive to the induction of SCEs as the remaining 80%. Cells from sensitive individuals also contain four times more diepoxybutane-induced chromosomal deletions and exchanges. Of particular interest is the observation that diepoxybutane-sensitive individuals have higher frequencies of baseline (i.e., uninduced) SCEs. We have now examined the sensitivity of individual lymphocytes to SCE induction by another DNA cross-linking agent (nitrogen mustard) and to monoepoxybutene. The results indicate that lymphocytes sensitive to diepoxybutane-induced SCEs have normal sensitivity to nitrogen mustard and a moderately increased response to the monofunctional agent monoepoxybutene. Measurement of diepoxybutane-induced SCEs is a potential biomarker of sensitivity to the genotoxic effects of butadiene and may be useful in occupational epidemiological studies. Such studies, in combination with measures of butadiene metabolism, could be useful in ascertaining whether the sensitivity is mediated by enzyme polymorphisms.
The effect of the yeast polysaccharide rodexman on the function of the immunocompetent cells in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis]	In vitro experiments established immunomodulatory effect of yeast-originated polysaccharide rodexamen. Functional state of lymphocytes and monocytes of peripheral blood before and after the contact with the drug was studied in 50 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and in 20 healthy subjects. Effect of rodexamen on lymphocytes and monocytes was assessed by rosette-forming abilities and phagocytic activity respectively. The results demonstrated dependence of immunocorrective effect on the initial level of cell's functional activity and quantity of the drug.
Current approaches to the prevention of infectious complications in heart surgery]	Due to changes of humoral immunity, patients with rheumatic heart disease present, even before the operation, a high-risk group with regard to the development of infectious complications. Contamination of intraoperative material was revealed in 61.7% of cases during the operation. Extracorporeal circulation increases the cefotaxime half-life period which is in direct proportional dependence of the period of time between the beginning of the administration of the agent and the beginning of extracorporeal circulation. Immunocorrection by means of myelopid in the early postoperative period accelerates restoration of cellular and humoral immunity, and reduces the frequency of pneumonia occurrence and suppuration of the postoperative wound. Therefore, the prevention of infectious complications after operations on an open heart should be complex and should include broad-spectrum antibiotics and immunocorrective therapy.
Ximedone in the treatment of patients with burns]	The authors studied xymedone, a new medicamentous agent from the group of pyrimidine derivatives. It was prescribed per os, 0.5 g taken three times daily. The experimental group consisted of 52 patients with IIIA and B degree thermal burns covering an area of 10 to 40%. The comparative appraisal was conducted with patients (60) treated by a complex of measures including methyluracil. Analysis of the obtained data showed a statistically significant, as compared to the controls, more rapid restoration of the peripheral blood parameters, decrease of C-reactive protein and level of sialic acid, and increase of total protein content and its gamma globulin fraction. Xymedone contributed to correction of blood dysproteinemia and produced an active effect on nucleic acid metabolism; the level of nucleic acids in the cells of the granulation tissue was much higher in the experimental group after treatment than in the controls. The normal ratio of T- and B-lymphocytes was restored and the phagocytosis indices grew. The production of coagulation and anticoagulation factors became normal, which coincided with cleaning of the granulations from fibrinous deposits and disappearance of the pathological predisposition to bleeding and easy damage of the granulation tissue. Under the effect of the agent the patients' appetite improved, the duration of the dehydration phase reduced, the rate of growth of microgranular granulations and epithelium increased, and the incidence of keloid cicatrices decreased. No unfavorable side effects of the agent were encountered. Xymedone is recommended for wide use in medical practice.
Reduction of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes in diabetes-prone BB rats with the novel immunosuppressant fusidic acid. Effect on T-cell proliferation and production of interferon-gamma.	Diabetes-prone (DP) BB rats spontaneously develop a hyperglycaemic condition which closely resembles human insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), both in terms of clinical and histological features. The incidence of IDDM was significantly reduced when these animals were treated with 2 or 4 mg fusidic acid (FA)/day i.m. from day 30 to day 120 of age. In addition, the mean insulitis score was significantly diminished in the animals treated with FA compared to both vehicle-treated and untreated controls. Finally, 2 mg/day of FA i.m. prevented cell proliferation and interferon-gamma secretion from peripheral blood mononuclear cells upon ex vivo stimulation with concanavalin A. The capacity of FA to substantially reduce the incidence of autoimmune diabetes in a well-known animal model of human IDDM supports previous observations regarding the immunosuppressive properties of FA and its potential use in the treatment of human autoimmune diabetes.
Failure to demonstrate long-lived MHC saturation both in vitro and in vivo. Implications for therapeutic potential of MHC-blocking peptides.	Peptides that bind with high affinity to class II MHC molecules can inhibit T cell activation both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, they have been suggested as potential therapeutic agents for MHC-associated autoimmune diseases. We have constructed nonnatural peptides with high affinity for certain disease-associated MHC alleles. More specifically, a particular peptide, designated as CY-760.50, was found to have a high binding affinity for DR1, slow dissociation kinetics after binding to MHC, and prolonged stability in human serum. However, when the ability of this peptide to block peptide presentation to an influenza hemagglutinin 307-319 peptide-specific, DR1-restricted T cell clone was examined, it was found that MHC blockade could only be achieved when high concentrations of peptide were present along with Ag in the fluid phase. Thus, pretreatment of APC with MHC class II blocker, followed by removal of unbound blocker, did not result in saturation of MHC molecules, because practically immediate reacquisition of Ag-presenting capacity was observed after removal of fluid phase blocker. The pharmacokinetic behavior and the duration of blocking activity of CY-760.50 were also examined in vivo, taking advantage of the fact that the mouse MHC class II molecule I-Ab also bound CY-760.50 with high affinity. CY-760.50 administered i.v. to C57BL/6 mice was rapidly cleared from the circulation and virtually undetectable in the serum 10 min after injection. This fast clearance rate was paralleled by a similarly short duration of the MHC blockade effect. These in vivo results have implications concerning the biology of peptide-MHC interactions, and suggest that MHC blockade may not be feasible as a therapeutic approach unless effective concentrations of inhibitor can be maintained over extended periods of time in the extracellular fluids.
Up-regulation of c-myc induces the gene expression of the murine homologues of p34cdc2 and cyclin-dependent kinase-2 in T lymphocytes.	The expression and/or up-regulation of several early T cell activation genes is dependent on signals transmitted through the interaction of IL-2 and IL-2R well before entry of the cells into S phase. In these studies, murine G0 T cells activated by immobilized anti-CD3 and subsequently blocked in late G1 expressed normal surface levels and mRNA for IL-2R alpha, IL-2R beta, and transferrin receptor (TfR). However, there was no expression of p34cdc2, and cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk)-2 was not up-regulated even in the presence of exogenous rIL-2. In addition the accumulation of c-myc-specific mRNA and protein was significantly reduced. Pretreatment of G0 T cells with c-myc antisense oligonucleotide effectively reduced the level of specific c-myc protein induced by activation of the cells by immobilized anti-CD3. The presence of antisense c-myc oligonucleotide inhibited the expression of cdc2 and cdk2 without affecting the expression of IL-2R alpha and blocked the activated T cells in the G1 phase. Together these studies demonstrate that c-myc regulates the expression of these cdk and suggest a role for c-myc in the G1/S transition.
Differential regulation of lymphotoxin (LT), lymphotoxin-beta (LT-beta), and TNF-alpha in murine T cell clones activated through the TCR.	The present study demonstrates differential regulation of three members of the TNF family, lymphotoxin (LT), LT-beta, and TNF-alpha, by activated murine T cell clones. We report for the first time that murine T cells transcribe LT-beta mRNA in the absence of any activating signal. Activation through the TCR by anti-CD3 did not increase the accumulation of LT-beta mRNA but did increase the accumulation of two species of TNF-alpha mRNA and three species of LT mRNA. We determined that anti-CD3-activated T cells differ in their regulation of LT, LT-beta, and TNF-alpha at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Anti-CD3 activation resulted in substantial increases in the extent of transcription of the TNF-alpha and LT genes, although with different rates. LT mRNA accumulation was also post-transcriptionally regulated by anti-CD3. In anti-CD3-activated T cells, the t1/2 of LT mRNA was three to four times longer than that of TNF-alpha mRNA. LT-beta mRNA decayed at a rate similar to that of LT mRNA. We also noted a dramatic difference in the cycloheximide sensitivity of LT, LT-beta, and TNF-alpha mRNAs. Cycloheximide superinduced the accumulation of LT mRNA, but not that of TNF-alpha and LT-beta mRNA, post-transcriptionally. Thus, this study demonstrates dramatic differences in the molecular mechanisms of regulation of LT, LT-beta, and TNF-alpha. It also indicates that LT production is probably the rate-limiting step in the formation of the LT-LT-beta complex. These differences suggest that the reason for the redundancy of LT, LT-beta, and TNF-alpha is their differential regulation rather than their functions.
Activation of a novel serine/threonine kinase that phosphorylates c-Fos upon stimulation of T and B lymphocytes via antigen and cytokine receptors.	Ligation of Ag receptors in T and B lymphocytes initiates signal transduction cascades which alter the expression of genes that regulate cellular proliferation and differentiation. The transmission of signals from the membrane to the nucleus is mediated principally through the action of protein tyrosine and serine/threonine kinases. We have identified and characterized a novel serine/threonine kinase that phosphorylated the proto-oncogene product, c-Fos, and is termed Fos kinase. Fos kinase was rapidly activated after ligation of the CD3 and CD2 receptors in Jurkat and normal human T lymphocytes and in response to IL-6 and anti-IgM in the human B cell lines AF10 and Ramos, respectively. The phorbol ester, PMA, was also a potent inducer of Fos kinase activity in all of the above populations, suggesting that PKC plays a role in the regulation of this enzyme. Fos kinase phosphorylates c-Fos at a site near the C-terminus, as well as a peptide derived from this region (residues 359-370, RKGSSSNEPSSD), and Fos peptide competitively inhibited c-Fos phosphorylation. Fos kinase was shown to be distinct from other identified serine/threonine kinases, including protein kinase A, protein kinase C, casein kinase II, MAP kinases, p70S6K and p90RSK. Fos kinase was purified by anion exchange chromatography and exhibited an apparent M(r) = 65,000 and isoelectric point = 6.1. Fos kinase may play a role in transcriptional regulation through its capacity to phosphorylate c-Fos at a site required for expression of the transcriptional transrepressive activity of this molecule. Moreover, its rapid activation suggests it may have a wider role within signal transduction cascades in lymphocytes.
Adoptive cellular therapy of human breast and colorectal tumor targets using ex vivo activated memory T lymphocytes with potentiation by cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II).	Autolymphocyte therapy (ALT) is adoptive cellular therapy of cancer using ex vivo activation of autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). Memory T cells are the principal effector population in ALT, with in vivo activity in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and melanoma, and ex vivo cytotoxicity against autologous tumor targets. However, the noncytolytic lymphocyte portion of ex vivo-activated memory T cells (ALT cells) may also contribute as antitumor effectors. Pretreatment of murine and human tumor cells ex vivo with chemotherapeutic agents can enhance their susceptibility to antitumor lymphocytes ex vivo and in vivo. To determine whether cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (DDP) could enhance ex vivo antitumor effects of ALT cells by immunomodulation, human breast and colorectal carcinoma target cells were derived from both primary and metastatic surgical specimens and incubated in complete medium (CM) with DDP or in CM alone (control group). Viability of each group was confirmed by trypan blue-dye exclusion test. ALT cells were prepared from autologous PBL at surgery. Primary and metastatic tumor cells from each group were used as targets for ALT cells and levels of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) release were measured as a determination of antitumor effect and recognition. Primary tumor target cells incubated in DDP showed enhanced antitumor effects and recognition by autologous ALT cells, as measured by the IFN-gamma assay compared to non-DDP-treated controls. Metastatic autologous tumor target cells demonstrated less IFN-gamma release than did the primary targets, although this was enhanced by pre-treating metastatic tumor targets with DDP. ALT cells demonstrated minimal IFN-gamma release when incubated with allogeneic tumor targets. These data suggest that autotumor recognition of metastatic tumor targets is comparable to that of primary lesions following ex vivo pretreatment of metastatic cells with nonlethal doses of certain chemotherapeutic agents. DDP may somehow alter the physical properties of target cells, rendering them susceptible to immune-mediated attack and the combination of ALT and DDP may lead to increased therapeutic efficacy in patients with metastatic breast and colon cancer.
Evaluation of the effect of low-level 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin exposure on cell mediated immunity.	The immunotoxicity of TCDD in the mouse has been well documented. To date, the most sensitive endpoint to TCDD-induced toxicity in mice is that reported by Clark et al. (Clark, D. A., Gauldie, J., Szewczuk M. R. and Sweeney, G. (1981) Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. Med. 168, 290.) who found that TCDD suppressed the murine cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response following four weekly doses of 4 ng TCDD/kg/week. However, these results have never been corroborated, as other laboratories have been unable to detect immunosuppression by TCDD at such low levels. In this study, we evaluated the effect of TCDD on the in vivo- and in vitro-generated CTL response to P815 mastocytoma cells in adult C57BL/6J female mice via a 51Cr release assay. Mice were given weekly intraperitoneal injections of TCDD or vehicle for 4 weeks at dosages ranging from 0.01 to 3.00 micrograms/kg/week. No statistically significant suppression of the in vivo- or in vitro-generated CTL response was detected at any dosage. As expected, significant increases in liver weights and decreases in thymus weights were observed at TCDD dosages of 1.0 and 3.0 micrograms/kg/week. Likewise, suppression of the antibody plaque-forming cell response to sheep erythrocytes was observed at dosages of 1.0 and 3.0 micrograms TCDD/kg/week. Although expected humoral immunosuppression and organ effects were observed, our data do not support suppression of murine CTL responses at the TCDD doses employed in this study.
Cytokine-mast cell interactions: relevance to IgE-mediated chemical allergy.	Recent work has shown that certain cytokines (inducible secreted proteins) are potent regulators of mast cell development and secretory function. We know also that sensitization of mice to chemical allergens induces T cell-dependent immune responses in which cytokines play an important role. Combining these observations, we postulate that in vivo T cell responses might influence, via the production of cytokines, the behaviour of mast cells in situ. In support of this hypothesis we have found that mast cells isolated from chemical allergen-sensitized mice show enhanced responsiveness to IgE-dependent activation in vitro. This effect is seen with chemical allergens that are either contact or respiratory sensitizers in man. Although respiratory and contact allergens cannot be distinguished according to their ability to modulate mouse mast cell function in vivo, they can be separated on the basis of their differential ability to induce specific IgE-dependent mast cell sensitization. In conclusion, the mouse may offer a useful model for investigating and predicting the potential of chemicals to act as mast cell promoting agents and/or respiratory sensitizers.
Envelope glycoproteins of HIV-1 interfere with T-cell-dependent B cell differentiation: role of CD4-MHC class II interaction in the effector phase of T cell help.	T-cell-dependent B cell differentiation involves two phases: an inductive phase of T cell activation followed by an effector phase, which involves stimulation of B cells by activated T cells. We have previously demonstrated that anti-CD3 mAb and antigen-induced T-cell-dependent B cell functions are inhibited by HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein, gp120, at the inductive phase of T-cell-dependent B cell response. In this study we have investigated whether gp120 also inhibits the effector phase of interactions involved in T-cell-dependent-B cell differentiation response. For these studies, CD4+ T cells were first activated with antigen or pokeweed mitogen, cultured with soluble HIV-gp120 or medium for 2 hr, and washed. Coculture of gp120-treated preactivated T cells with autologous B cells resulted in impairment of IgG secretion, but did not affect IgM secretion significantly. The IgG secretion was restored by the addition of PMA (activator of protein kinase C) or forskolin (activator of adenylate cyclase), but not by the addition of ionomycin (inducer of intracellular calcium) to the T plus B cell cultures. A similar pattern of Ig secretion (IgM, no IgG) was observed with B cells of a patient with bare lymphocyte syndrome, indicating a requirement for MHC class II molecule interaction with T cells. These studies suggest that the effector phase of T-B cell interactions are impaired by gp120, and that the mechanism involves a signal transducing event(s), which is dependent upon cyclic AMP and/or protein kinase C. Furthermore, these latter reactions occur subsequent to T-B cell contact-dependent interactions at the effector phase, which involve MHC class II molecules on B cells and CD4 molecules on T cells.
Occupational exposure to mercury vapors stimulates T lymphocytes]	The number of lymphocytes, lymphocytes T, lymphocytes T helper and suppressor were determined in 55 males exposed to mercury vapours and in 36 males of the control group, using monoclonal antibody and indirect immunofluorescence assay. The shift time weighted average was 0.0028 mg x m-3. Mean mercury concentration was 54 +/- 44 micrograms x l-1 in urine of the study group and 5 +/- 7 micrograms x l-1 in blood. Stimulation of lymphocytes, manifested by an increased number of lymphocytes T helper in the peripheral blood, was observed in men exposed to mercury. The results suggest that autoimmunological reactions may occur in the exposed men.
Involvement of serum response element in okadaic acid-induced EGR-1 transcription in human T-cells.	The present work has examined the effects of okadaic acid, an inhibitor of serine/threonine protein phosphatase, PP-1 and PP-2A, on the regulation of EGR-1 gene expression in normal peripheral blood T- and Jurkat cells. The results demonstrate that okadaic acid treatment is associated with a transient induction of EGR-1 gene expression which was detectable by 30 min to 1 h and peaked at 3-6 h. EGR-1 mRNA was superinduced in cells treated with both okadaic acid and the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. The half-life of EGR-1 mRNA was similar in both control and okadaic acid-treated cells. In contrast, treatment with both okadaic acid and cycloheximide prolonged the half-life of EGR-1 transcripts. Nuclear run-on assays demonstrated that induction of EGR-1 gene expression by okadaic acid is controlled at least in part by a transcriptional mechanism. Transient expression assays with EGR-1 promotor fragments linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene demonstrate that okadaic acid-induced EGR-1 transcription is conferred by the 5' most distal CArG box, CC (AT)6GG, in the EGR-1 promoter. Moreover, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity was induced by okadaic acid when the 5' most distal CArG element was linked to the heterologous herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase promoter, and not induced with a similar heterologous construct containing a mutated CArG sequence. These studies demonstrate that okadaic acid regulates EGR-1 gene expression at the transcriptional level via the CArG element and suggest that PP-1 and PP-2A play a role in T-cell activation.
Distinct effects of glutathione disulphide on the nuclear transcription factor kappa B and the activator protein-1.	Oxidative conditions potentiate the activation of the nuclear transcription factor kappa B (NF kappa B) and the activator protein-1 (AP-1) in intact cells, but inhibit their DNA binding activity in vitro. We now show that both the activation of NF kappa B and the inhibition of its DNA binding activity is modulated in intact cells by the physiological oxidant glutathione disulphide (GSSG). NF kappa B activation in human T lineage cells (Molt-4) by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol 13-acetate was inhibited by dithiothreitol, and this was partly reversed by the glutathione reductase inhibitor 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) or by hydrogen peroxide, indicating that GSSG may be required for NF kappa B activation. These effects of BCNU and hydrogen peroxide were not seen in glutathione-depleted cells. However, NF kappa B and AP-1 activation were potentiated by dithiothreitol if added to cell cultures 1 h after the phorbol ester, indicating that a shift of redox conditions may support optimal oxidative activation with minimal inhibition of DNA binding. The elevation of intracellular GSSG levels by BCNU before stimulation suppressed the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase expression dependent on NF kappa B but increased that dependent on AP-1. This selective suppression of NF kappa B was also demonstrable by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. In vitro, GSSG inhibited the DNA binding activity of NF kappa B more effectively than that of AP-1, while AP-1 was inhibited more effectively by oxidized thioredoxin.
Adriamycin inhibits inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase activity in vitro and blocks formation of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate in stimulated Jurkat T-lymphocytes. Does inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate play a role in Ca(2+)-entry?	Effects of the cytostatic drug adriamycin on inositol polyphosphate metabolism were analyzed in a human T-cell line (Jurkat) using a recently developed anion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography/post-column complexometric dye system. Treatment of intact T-cells with adriamycin prior to stimulation with an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody induced a dose- and time-dependent decrease in the intracellular level of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (complete inhibition after 2 h at 10 microM adriamycin) and an increase in the level of inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate without significantly changing the levels of other inositol phosphates. A marked inhibition of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase activity and a slight activation of the inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate 5-phosphatase activity were observed in cytosolic extracts in the presence of adriamycin, providing an explanation for the drug-induced metabolic effect. Adriamycin thus seems to be an extremely valuable tool for further dissecting inositol polyphosphate metabolism, as well as signaling pathways. Along these lines, we observed that adriamycin did not change the free cytosolic Ca2+ concentration of Jurkat T-lymphocytes and, in particular, did not modulate Ca2+ influx upon T-cell receptor stimulation. We conclude that (i) inositol phosphate signaling pathways constitute an as yet undescribed target for the action of adriamycin and that (ii) an increase of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate is not necessary for sustained Ca(2+)-entry in stimulated T-cells.
Phorbol ester-induced transcription of an immediate-early response gene by human T cells is inhibited by co-treatment with calcium ionophore.	Human T cells require two discrete signals to initiate their proliferation. In Jurkat T cells the first signal can be provided by the phorbol ester TPA and the second by the calcium ionophore A23187. We have isolated a cDNA from Jurkat T cells representing mRNA induced by TPA but inhibited by simultaneous treatment of the cells with antibody, lectin, or A23187. Sequencing revealed identity of the Jurkat clone to a cDNA, termed ETR101, recently isolated from HL60 promyelocytic leukaemia cells and shown to be an immediate early gene expressed upon TPA stimulation of these cells [Shimizu et al.: J Biol Chem 266:12157, 1991]. The gene is also induced very rapidly upon TPA treatment of Jurkat cells and is superinduced by co-treatment with cycloheximide. The predicted amino acid sequence encoded by ETR101 has weak homology to JunB and JunD, therefore it is of some interest that these three genes share the chromosomal localization, 19p13.2. The divergent effects of TPA treatment upon cell proliferation and differentiation in different circumstances allow some speculation about a possible role for the ETR101 gene product upon cellular differentiation.
Effects of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid on expression of proto-oncogene c-fos.	The transcription factor AP-1 is an important human mediator of the cellular response to serum, growth factors, and phorbol esters such as 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13 acetate (TPA). The AP-1 complex consists of distinct protein heterodimers encoded by the proto-oncogene c-fos and c-jun mRNA whose gene expression can be induced by TPA, cyclic AMP and growth factors. Recent findings suggest an involvement of reactive oxygen species in the pathway of TPA and protein kinase C leading to expression of c-fos and c-jun mRNA. To investigate the role of reactive oxygen species we studied the effects of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid (natural thiol antioxidants) on the expression of c-fos mRNA in human Jurkat T cells. When cells were preincubated with dihydrolipoic acid (0.2 mM) the expression of c-fos mRNA was suppressed at 30 min after stimulation of TPA (0.5 microM) whereas in the case of preincubation of alpha-lipoic acid (0.2 microM), the expression was enhanced at 30 min. These studies support the idea that superoxide anion radical plays a role in the expression of c-fos mRNA.
Regulation of T cell activation by cytochrome P450 inhibitors.	Cytochrome P450 inhibitors such as alpha-naphthoflavone, the imidazole antimycotics, econazole, clotrimazole, and miconazole and the lipoxygenase inhibitors, nordihydroguaiaretic acid and eicosatetraynoic acid, strongly diminished CD3-induced human T cell proliferation. This effect is due to a marked inhibition of IL-2 synthesis. The mechanism leading to the in vitro immunosuppressive effect of cytochrome P450 inhibitors appears to be a consequence of a blockade of Ca2+ influx induced by CD3 mAb. The drugs tested did not interfere with the release of Ca2+ from the endoplasmic reticulum as demonstrated by Ca+ measurements in the presence of the Ca2+ chelator, EGTA. Measurements of CD3-induced changes in phosphatidylserine synthesis, which reflect the status (full/empty) of intracellular Ca2+ stores confirmed that CD3 mAb remained able to empty the Ca2+ stores either alone or in the presence of cytochrome P450 inhibitors. Altogether, our results support the hypothesis that a cytochrome P450 regulates Ca2+ influx in T cells and are consistent with the proposal that impairing Ca2+ influx leads to the inhibition of IL-2 synthesis and subsequent T cell proliferation.
In vitro effects of solubilized HLA-DR--role in immunoregulation?	To test the hypothesis that soluble HLA-DR antigens (sHLA-DR), binding to the T-cell receptor (TCR) and/or CD4 structures, compete with and abrogate functions of their cell-bound counterparts, we studied effects of detergent-solubilized, affinity-purified HLA-DR molecules on the DNA synthesis, IL-2, and IL-1 secretion by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). While resting T cells did not show any response, there was a dose-dependent suppression of T-cell responses induced by mitogen (phytohemagglutinin, PHA), recall antigen (purified protein derivative of tuberculin, PPD), or HLA class II alloantigens (Daudi cells). In the PHA system, sHLA-DR affected DR-identical and DR-disparate PBMC with equal efficiency, suggesting a nonspecific interference with accessory functions of cell-bound HLA class II molecules. A competitive ligation of lymphocyte (rather than of monocyte) CD4 is suggested based on the failure of sHLA-DR (i) to potentiate inhibitory effects of anti-CD4 mAb, (ii) to suppress mitogen responses after depletion of CD4+ lymphocytes and also following separate monocyte (vs lymphocyte) pretreatment, and (iii) to induce a reproducible IL-1 secretion inhibition. In the PPD system, suppressive sHLA-DR effects on autologous or DR-identical PBMC significantly exceeded that on DR-disparate PBMC, and in the MLR, third party allogeneic sHLA-DR was exceeded in its suppressive potency both by sHLA-DA pertinent to responder cells and by sHLA-DR pertinent to stimulator cells. These additional specific effects may result from competition (with cell-bound class II restriction and recognition determinants) at the TCR level rather than from peptide competition at the antigen-presenting cell level. Interference by sHLA-DR with the primary and/or accessory signaling may offer new therapeutic strategies in allotransplantation and autoimmunity.
A single injection of Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin B reduces autoimmunity in MRL/lpr mice.	MRL/Mp-lpr/lpr (MRL/lpr) mice carry a mutation in the Fas gene whose product is involved in the regulation of lymphocyte apoptosis. This mutation is associated with the lpr phenomenon, i.e., a massive expansion of phenotypically abnormal CD4-CD8- cells ("double negative," DN) alpha/beta T cells (lpr cells) that becomes manifest at 3-4 months of age. As in normal mice, intravenous SEB injection into 2- or 6-month-old female MRL/lpr mice causes a transient expansion of SEB-reactive V beta 8+ T cells, followed by a deletion of this subset. In contrast, in the same animals, the frequency of abnormal V beta 8+CD4-CD8- cells is not modulated by SEB. Whereas DN T cells are completely resistant to SEB-mediated deletion in vivo, their precursors appear susceptible to SEB-induced deletion. Thus, a single injection of SEB prior to the surge of DN T cells in peripheral lymphoid organs, at 2 months of age, is sufficient to cause a stable long-term (6 months) deletion of DN cells. This is accompanied by a significant amelioration of autoimmune parameters (autoantibody titers, incidence of arthritis and nephritis), thus pointing to the feasibility of employing superantigens for simple manipulations of the immune repertoire that result in the long-term prophylaxis of autoimmune diseases.
Analysis of susceptibility of mature human T lymphocytes to dexamethasone-induced apoptosis.	We present evidence that dexamethasone (Dex), a synthetic glucocorticosteroid, causes apoptosis in mature human T cells, similarly to what has been reported for murine T lymphocytes. Human T cell clones and short-term activated T lymphocytes treated with Dex show the characteristic pattern of apoptotic cells, such as hypodiploid nuclei, chromatin condensation and DNA fragmentation into oligonucleosomal fragments. However, Dex susceptibility of T cells to apoptosis is cell cycle-dependent. The progression in the proliferative cell cycle (G1 versus S) rescues Dex-treated T cells from apoptosis. Moreover, occupancy of the T cell receptor reverses Dex-induced apoptotic phenomena. These observations suggest that glucocorticoids contribute to the regulation of the proliferative or the suicidal response of antigen-activated human T cells.
Successful immunotherapy of the highly metastatic murine ESb lymphoma with sensitized CD8+ T cells and IFN-alpha/beta.	Daily IFN-alpha/beta therapy was totally ineffective in inhibiting the development of visceral metastases in DBA/2 mice injected i.v. with the ESb lymphoma regardless of the number of tumor cells injected. The finding that IFN-alpha/beta therapy increased the survival time of ESb-immunized mice rechallenged with ESb cells suggested that cooperation between the immune system and IFN-alpha/beta was important. Adoptive transfer of Esb-immune spleen cells (but not normal cells) together with IFN-alpha/beta treatment did inhibit the development of ESb metastases in immunocompetent DBA/2 mice. Either treatment alone was ineffective. The anti-metastatic effect was specific for the ESb lymphoma as spleen cells from ESb-immunized mice together with IFN-alpha/beta treatment did not inhibit the development of metastases in mice challenged with IFN-alpha/beta-resistant 3C18 FLC. Depletion of CD8+ T cells (but not CD4+ T cells or B lymphocytes) prior to transfer eliminated the protective effect of ESb-immune splenocytes in IFN-alpha/beta-treated mice. As few as 1 x 10(6) ESb-immune spleen cells highly enriched for CD8+ cells increased the survival time of IFN-alpha/beta-treated ESb-challenged DBA/2 mice. The combined therapy of ESb-specific immune cells and IFN-alpha/beta resulted in long-term immunity to this tumor.
Anti-tumor necrosis factor modulates anti-CD3-triggered T cell cytokine gene expression in vivo.	De novo expression of TNF, IFN gamma, IL-3, IL-4, and IL-6 genes was initiated rapidly by treatment of mice with anti-CD3. A specific feature of this reaction was that TNF was derived exclusively from T cells. TNF was produced both as a mature soluble trimeric protein and as a 26-kD anti-TNF-reactive protein compatible with membrane-anchored TNF. Pretreatment with anti-TNF did not affect anti-CD3-triggered TNF mRNA expression in T cells. In contrast, in vivo and in vitro anti-TNF treatment upregulated anti-CD3-induced IFN gamma mRNA expression and inhibited IL-4 mRNA expression. These latter effects were not dependent on TNF neutralization: pretreatment with soluble recombinant 55-kD TNF receptor (TBPI) as an alternative TNF-neutralizing agent did not modify the anti-CD3-induced cytokine profile. These results suggest that a direct interaction between anti-TNF and T cell membrane-anchored TNF could account for the observed modulation of cytokine gene expression. The increased expression of INF gamma mRNA observed in anti-TNF-treated animals correlated with a decrease in IL-3 and IL-6 mRNA expression. Conversely, IFN gamma blockade by a neutralizing anti-IFN gamma mAb led to a substantial increase in both IL-3 and IL-6 gene expression induced by anti-CD3. Taken together, these results strongly argue for the existence, in the anti-CD3-induced cytokine cascade, of IFN gamma-dependent regulation of IL-3 production, which in turn modulates IL-6 production.
Veratridine blocks voltage-gated potassium current in human T lymphocytes and in mouse neuroblastoma cells.	(i) Effects of veratridine on ionic conductances of human peripheral blood T lymphocytes have been investigated using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. (ii) Veratridine reduces the net outward current evoked by membrane depolarizations. The reduction originates from block of a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive, voltage-gated K+ current. (iii) Human T lymphocytes do not appear to express voltage-gated Na+ channels, since inward currents are observed neither in control nor in veratridine- and bretylium-exposed lymphocytes. (iv) The effect of veratridine consists of an increase in the rate of decay of the voltage-gated K+ current and a reduction of the peak current amplitude. Both effects depend on veratridine concentration. Half-maximum block occurs at 97 microM and the time constant of decay is reduced by 50% at 54 microM of veratridine. (v) Possible mechanisms of veratridine action are discussed. The increased rate of K+ current decay is most likely due to open channel block. The decrease of current amplitude may involve an additional mechanism. (vi) In cultured mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells, veratridine blocks a component of voltage-gated K+ current, in addition to its effect on voltage-gated Na+ current. This result shows that the novel effect of veratridine is not confined to lymphocytes.
Cyclosporin A inhibits growth of autocrine tumour cell lines by destabilizing interleukin-3 mRNA.	In T cells, cyclosporin A (CsA) exerts its immunosuppressive effect by preventing transcriptional induction of the expression of interleukin(IL)-2. This is achieved by a mechanism that involves binding of a CsA-cyclophilin complex to calcineurin, which in turn inhibits the phosphatase-controlled translocation of transcription factor NFAT to the nucleus. We have previously identified IL-3 as an autocrine oncogenic regulator in tumour cell lines generated by introducing the v-H-ras oncogene into IL-3-dependent mast cells. Here we report that CsA specifically blocks autocrine tumour cell growth. The mechanism involves down-regulation of IL-3 expression by destabilization of the messenger RNA and requires ongoing transcription. Transcripts from exogenous IL-3 genes lacking the (A+U)-rich element (ARE) in the 3' untranslated terminal repeat could not be destabilized, suggesting that at least part of this sequence, which is known to mediate decay of short-lived mRNA, participates in a CsA-sensitive regulatory mechanism.
Carbon tetrachloride suppresses T-cell-dependent immune responses by induction of transforming growth factor-beta 1.	In vivo exposure of B6C3F1 mice to the hepatotoxic chlorinated hydrocarbon, CCl4, suppresses T-cell-dependent humoral immune responses to sRBC. In the present studies, separation-crossover-reconstitution experiments with spleen cell subpopulations isolated from vehicle and CCl4-treated mice (500 mg/kg/day for 7 days) indicate that T-cells are the primary immunologic cell-type altered following CCl4 exposure. Despite suppression of T-cell activity, Con A-activated spleen cell supernatants from CCl4-treated mice produced greater amounts of biologically active IL-2 than untreated spleen cells. Furthermore, Con A-induced upregulation of the p55 subunit of the IL-2 receptor was not altered in spleen cells from CCl4-treated mice. The mediator of immune suppression is a serum-borne factor induced 48 hr following a single exposure to CCl4. Sera isolated from mice treated with CCl4 for 7 days (500 mg/kg/day) or 48 hr following a single exposure (1000 mg/kg) were found to possess high concentrations of TGF-beta 1. Direct addition studies demonstrated that T-cell-dependent AFC responses are more sensitive to suppression by TGF-beta 1 than are T-cell-independent responses. Finally, incubation of sera from CCl4-treated mice with TGF-beta 1-neutralizing mAb reversed the immune suppression associated with this serum. These results demonstrate that CCl4-induced immune suppression is at least partially mediated by induction of TGF-beta 1.
Induction of cytokines by zinc ions in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and separated monocytes.	Zinc plays an important role in the maintenance of immune functions. The immunological mechanisms triggered by zinc, however, are still poorly understood. In our experiments Zn2+ ions, added as ZnSO4, stimulated PBMC to produce IFN-gamma, IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and sIL-2R in a concentration-dependent manner. CuSO4 and CaCl2 as cation and anion controls had no effect. The optimal concentration of zinc was 0.5 mM for monokine induction and 0.25 mM for induction of IFN-gamma and sIL-2R. The highest IL-1 beta and IL-6 levels were found on day 2 and maximum TNF-alpha after 16 h. IFN-gamma and sIL-2R production were optimum after 6 and 7 days, respectively. Monokines could be induced in autologous serum as well as in fetal calf serum and serum-free medium. Enriched monocytes and the human monocyte cell line Mono Mac 6 also released IL-1 beta after zinc challenge. Anti-IL-6 reduced IFN-gamma secretion whereas anti-IL-1 beta inhibited it. These data suggest that zinc acts primarily on monocytes by inducing monokine secretion and that T-cell activation represents a secondary effect in the cytokine cascade.
Calcineurin potentiates activation of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene in T cells: involvement of the conserved lymphokine element 0.	Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) are produced by stimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate (PMA) and calcium ionophore (A23187) in human T cell leukemia Jurkat cells. The expression of GM-CSF and IL-2 is inhibited by immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506. Earlier studies on the IL-2 gene expression showed that overexpression of calcineurin (CN), a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, can stimulate transcription from the IL-2 promoter through the NF-AT-binding site. In this study, we obtained evidence that transfection of the cDNAs for CN A (catalytic) and CN B (regulatory) subunits also augments transcription from the GM-CSF promoter and recovers the transcription inhibited by CsA. The constitutively active type of the CN A subunit, which lacks the auto-inhibitory and calmodulin-binding domains, acts in synergy with PMA to activate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter. We also found that the active CN partially replaces calcium ionophore in synergy with PMA to induce expression of endogenous GM-CSF and IL-2. By multimerizing the regulatory elements of the GM-CSF promoter, we found that one of the target sites for the CN action is the conserved lymphokine element 0 (CLE0), located at positions between -54 and -40. Mobility shift assays showed that the CLE0 sequence has an AP1-binding site and is associated with an NF-AT-like factor, termed NF-CLE0 gamma. NF-CLE0 gamma binding is induced by PMA/A23187 and is inhibited by treatment with CsA. These results suggest that CN is involved in the coordinated induction of the GM-CSF and IL-2 genes and that the CLE0 sequence of the GM-CSF gene is a functional analogue of the NF-AT-binding site in the IL-2 promoter, which mediates signals downstream of T cell activation.
Mechanism of action of hydroxychloroquine as an antirheumatic drug.	The antimalarial agents chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine have been used widely for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. These compounds lead to improvement of clinical and laboratory parameters, but their slow onset of action distinguishes them from glucocorticoids and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents. Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine increase pH within intracellular vacuoles and alter processes such as protein degradation by acidic hydrolases in the lysosome, assembly of macromolecules in the endosomes, and posttranslation modification of proteins in the Golgi apparatus. It is proposed that the antirheumatic properties of these compounds results from their interference with "antigen processing" in macrophages and other antigen-presenting cells. Acidic cytoplasmic compartments are required for the antigenic protein to be digested and for the peptides to assemble with the alpha and beta chains of MHC class II proteins. As a result, antimalarials diminish the formation of peptide-MHC protein complexes required to stimulate CD4+ T cells and result in down-regulation of the immune response against autoantigenic peptides. Because this mechanism differs from other antirheumatic drugs, antimalarials are well suited to complement these other compounds in combination drug therapy.
Differential effects of corticosteroids on rat peripheral blood T-lymphocyte mitogenesis in vivo and in vitro.	The effects of corticosteroids were studied on the concanavalin A (Con A)-induced mitogenesis of peripheral blood T-lymphocytes obtained from intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) Wistar rats. One week of adrenalectomy reduced the proliferative response of T-cells by 65% compared with sham-operated controls. Substitution of ADX rats with subcutaneously implanted 12.5-mg corticosterone (Cort) pellets, which resulted in low circulating Cort levels (17 +/- 3 nM), restored the reduced proliferative capacity to that of sham-ADX animals. In contrast, T-lymphocyte proliferation was nearly absent in ADX rats substituted with high circulating Cort levels (173 +/- 15 nM; 100-mg Cort pellet). In vitro, Cort suppressed the mitogenic response of T-lymphocytes from ADX and sham-ADX animals. The glucocorticoid antagonist RU-486 (500 nM) completely blocked this suppressive effect. However, a 10 times lower concentration of RU-486 reversed the effects of a low (10 nM) Cort concentration from suppression to stimulation. It is concluded that high Cort concentrations in vivo and in vitro suppressed T-lymphocyte mitogenesis but that low concentrations in vivo were stimulatory, whereas this stimulation in vitro occurred only in the presence of antiglucocorticoids. These opposing effects of Cort emphasize a bimodal regulatory role of this hormone in immune regulation that may be mediated by different corticosteroid receptors.
Okadaic acid inhibits dephosphorylation of cytoplasmic p53 during lymphocyte activation.	A competition radioimmunoassay specific for conserved Domain V of p53 revealed that Domain V was masked in highly phosphorylated cytosolic p53 of resting T lymphocytes and unmasked through dephosphorylation during lymphocyte activation. Phosphatase type 2A was shown to act upon immunopurified p53 in a manner that increased the immunoreactivity of the molecule in the Domain V RIA. Treatments of T cells with okadaic acid (1nM) prior to addition of Concanavalin-A/serum inhibited completely the dephosphorylation of cytosolic p53 observed to occur within 10-20min of stimulation. Brief exposure of T cells to okadaic acid during the first hour of activation by mitogens produced increased rates of cellular proliferation. Sustained inhibition of the dephosphorylation of cytoplasmic p53 in cells undergoing mitogenic stimulation may affect adversely the ability of p53 to exert its anti-proliferative effect and could contribute to unregulated cell growth.
High concentrations of interleukin-2 selectively suppress T-cell dependent humoral immune responses.	The recent therapeutic application of immunoregulatory cytokines, most notably the T-cell growth factor, interleukin-2 (IL-2), marks the advent of a new class of pharmacologic agents. In the present studies the effects of exogenous IL-2 on in vitro humoral immune responses in spleen cells isolated from female B6C3F1 mice were investigated. In vitro direct addition of low concentrations of rmIL-2 (25 U/ml) to naive spleen cells induced a moderate enhancement of the T-cell dependent antibody forming cell (AFC) response to sRBC. Similarly, low concentrations of rmIL-2 (10-50 U/ml) enhanced T-cell independent AFC responses to DNP-Ficoll and LPS. Interestingly, high concentrations of rmIL-2 (100 or 250 U/ml) selectively suppressed the T-cell dependent AFC response but not T-cell independent AFC responses to either DNP-Ficoll or LPS. Neither immunoenhancing (25 U/ml) nor immunosuppressive (200 U/ml) concentrations of rmIL-2 altered the kinetics of the sRBC response. Temporal addition studies indicated that high concentrations of rmIL-2 (200 U/ml) were only inhibitory when added to the cultures during the first 24 h following antigen sensitization. Conversely, a significant enhancement of the response was observed when 200 U/ml rmIL-2 was added 48 h following antigen sensitization. These results are in agreement with previous reports that the presence of high concentrations of IL-2 render T-cells unresponsive to subsequent antigen stimulation but that the high concentrations of IL-2 enhance immune responses when added at 48 h following antigen sensitization.
Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol selectively inhibits T-cell dependent humoral immune responses through direct inhibition of accessory T-cell function.	The major psychoactive and immunosuppressive component of marihuana, delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), was investigated for its effects on primary humoral immune responses in the B6C3F1 mouse strain. Oral administration of 50-200 mg/kg delta 9-THC produced a selective and dose related inhibition of primary humoral immune responses to the T-cell dependent antigen, sRBC, as measured by the antibody forming cell (AFC) response with no inhibitory effect on humoral responses to the T-cell independent antigen, DNP-Ficoll. A similar profile of immune inhibition was observed following in vitro direct addition of delta 9-THC to naive spleen cell cultures sensitized with defined antigens. delta 9-THC produced a marked and dose related inhibition of the in vitro sRBC AFC response while having no inhibitory effects on T-cell independent responses to either DNP-Ficoll or the polyclonal B-cell activator, lipopolysaccharide. This selective inhibition of the sRBC response was not due to a shift in the peak day of response or a direct cytotoxic effect on spleen cells. In vivo kinetic studies demonstrated that inhibition by delta 9-THC of the sRBC response was most pronounced when drug administration occurred at times surrounding antigen sensitization. To further evaluate the direct effect of delta 9-THC on T-cell function, T-cell proliferative responses to stimulation by anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies were measured. delta 9-THC was found to produce a marked and dose related inhibition of anti-CD3 mAb-induced T-cell proliferation which was cell density dependent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunomodulating actions of nucleotides: enhancement of immunoglobulin production by human cord blood lymphocytes.	We have shown previously that polynucleotides enhance in vitro antibody and Ig production in response to T-dependent antigens in mice and augment Ig production by adult human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Herein, we report their effects on umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMNC) obtained from full-term babies. CBMNC produced much less IgM/IgG and an almost negligible amount of IgA in response to various stimuli compared with adult peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The supplementation of yeast RNA augmented spontaneous and T-dependent IgM (p < 0.01) but not IgG production by CBMNC. This action was largely attributable to polynucleotides, which appeared to exert their actions in a dose-dependent manner at the initial stages of culture. Their actions were dependent upon the presence of T cells, but they also enhanced spontaneous IgM production by CBMNC in the absence of T cells. Preincubation of T cells from CBMNC and peripheral blood mononuclear cells with RNA for 3 h before the culture resulted in enhanced IgM production, independent of the stimulants used. Thus, polynucleotides appear to exert actions on immature human T cells as well as other lineage cells in vitro. Their actions may be dependent on the presence or absence of antigens or other stimuli and the nature of the stimuli (T dependent versus T independent). These findings may further support the potential importance of nucleotides contained in human breast milk.
Thymic stroma-derived T-cell inhibitory factor (TSTIF). 2: TSTIF acts on the antigen-presenting cell to inhibit antigen-stimulated T-cell proliferation.	Culture supernatant (SN) was obtained from the monolayer of the MRL104.8a thymic stromal cell clone. This SN alone induced proliferation of helper T-cell (Th) clones because it contained IL-7. However, addition of the SN to cultures of Th stimulated with antigen plus antigen-presenting cells (APC) resulted in potent inhibition of their proliferation. This suppression was ascribed to a factor (designated thymic stroma-derived T-cell inhibitory factor, TSTIF) that is contained in the MRL104.8a SN and distinct from IL-7. TSTIF affected antigen-stimulated proliferation of both type 1 helper (Th1) and type 2 helper (Th2) T-cell clones. The TSTIF effect was also observed by the presence of the MRL104.8a SN only in the initial 24 hr pre-culture during the entire course (48-72 hr) of antigenic stimulation. Pre-exposure of Th cells to the SN in the absence of Ag/APC induced their proliferation upon stimulation with Ag/APC in the next 48 hr cultures. However, pre-cultures of Th cells with the SN in the presence of APC alone (without antigen) resulted in potent inhibition of the subsequent Ag/APC-stimulated proliferation. Interaction of TSTIF with APC but not with responding Th cells was further demonstrated in the following experiment: APC alone were exposed to the MRL104.8a SN and used for stimulation of Th that had not been exposed to the SN. Such an APC population exhibited a remarkably reduced capacity to induce antigen-stimulated Th proliferation when compared to that induced by freshly prepared APC or APC cultured in the absence of the MRL104.8a SN. These results indicate that TSTIF exerts its inhibitory effect on the antigen-stimulated T-cell proliferation by acting on APC.
Immunohistochemical investigations of lymphocytes in the lymphoid organs of cyclophosphamide treated chickens.	The localization of lymphocytes in the lymphoid organs of cyclophosphamide (Cy) treated chickens and untreated control chickens was compared immunohistochemically using a variety of monoclonal antibodies (CT3, 2-6, 11-39, TCR1, TCR2, TCR3, L22, 11G, 3E8, B-4D-4, A-13). In the Harderian glands of Cy treated chickens, an an increase of T cells was observed, though T cells were a few in untreated controls. These increased T cells consisted of CD4 positive or CD8 positive cells. Further, these T cells were stained with TCR2 or TCR3 antibody, and a small number of cells were stained with TCR1 antibody. In other lymphoid organs such as the bursa of Fabricius, thymus, spleen and cecal tonsils, B lymphocyctes severely decreased or disappeared in Cy treated chickens, though no significant alteration in T cell distribution was observed.
Granuloma formation in the liver of Balb/c mice intoxicated with carbon tetrachloride.	Hepatic granulomas induced by a single or several subcutaneous injections of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) in Balb/c mice were examined electronmicroscopically and immunocytochemically. Stellate cells (fat-storing cells; lipocytes; Ito cells) were identified by the detection of cytoplasmic desmin, while T-lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages were identified with monoclonal antibodies Thy 1.2 and MOMA-2, respectively. Following pericentral necrosis induced with CCl4, clear foci containing lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophages and perisinusoidal stellate cells occurred in the surrounding hepatic parenchyma on day 5. These clear foci developed to granulomas with increasing numbers of macrophages and stellate cells. Mitotic and apoptotic figures in randomly distributed macrophages, and direct contacts between macrophages and stellate cells were frequently seen within the granulomas. The stellate cells were characterized by a well-developed granular endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex. Collagen fibrils were closely applied to the stellate cells and connective tissue septa extended between neighboring granulomas and/or the pericentral necrotic areas after several injections of CCl4. CCl4-induced hepatic granulomas provide a model for investigating paracrine and/or autocrine modulation within a well-organized microenvironment during progressive hepatic inflammation and fibrosis.
Tamm-Horsfall urinary glycoprotein enhances monokine release and augments lymphocyte proliferation.	Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein (THG) purified from pregnancy urine was found to stimulate normal human mononuclear cell (MNC) proliferation at a concentration greater than 10 micrograms/ml. This stimulation was non-specific because the percentage of B and T cell subpopulations including CD20, CD3, CD4, CD8 and CD4/CD8 ratio was not changed by THG. THG not only bound to human mononuclear cells but depolarized the membrane potential, increased 22Na+ uptake and enhanced the expression of IL-2R and HLA-class II antigens on these cells. The concentrations of sIL-2R, sCD4 and sCD8 in the THG-stimulated MNC culture supernatants were significantly increased compared with control supernatants. In addition, overnight incubation of THG (5-50 micrograms/ml) with MNC dose-responsively enhanced the syntheses of IL-1 beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha by monocytes, with a maximal effect at 25 micrograms/ml. This monokine releasing activity of THG could be neutralized by a specific antibody against THG. When monocytes/macrophages were depleted from mononuclear cells by incubating with lysosomotropic methyl ester of L-leucine, THG retained the capability of stimulating lymphocytes proliferation but to a lesser degree. These results suggest that urinary THG activates monocytes to synthesize large amount of monokines through its membrane effect. The released monokines subsequently stimulate lymphocytes expressing IL-2R and HLA-class II antigens and finally lead to cell proliferation.
Effects of lovastatin on natural killer cell function and other immunological parameters in man.	Suppression of cholesterol synthesis by 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, such as lovastatin, has been shown to inhibit mitogen stimulated proliferation of natural killer (NK) cells and other lymphocytes in vitro. This effect is only partially overcome by provision of exogenous free or lipoprotein cholesterol but is reversed by mevalonate, suggesting that proliferating lymphocytes have a specific requirement for a nonsterol isoprenoid product of mevalonate. The effect of lovastatin (20 mg bid) on a range of immune function parameters was determined in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ex vivo study in 52 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. No significant differences (P < 0.05) were found between lovastatin and placebo groups for basal NK or interleukin-2 (IL-2)-induced cell-mediated cytotoxicity, PHA-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation, or relative numbers of T lymphocytes (CD3+), B lymphocytes (CD19+), total NK cells (CD3-, CD16+, CD56+) and CD57+ NK cells or in immunoglobulin levels after 4 or 8 weeks of treatment. In contrast to previous in vitro data, no statistically or clinically significant changes were observed in any parameter of lymphocyte function in patients treated with lovastatin.
Interleukin-2 secreting cells in multiple sclerosis and controls.	To evaluate systemic T cell activation and reactivity against putative autoantigens in multiple sclerosis (MS), numbers of interleukin-2 (IL-2) secreting cells were determined in peripheral blood of 32 patients with MS, 7 patients with acute aseptic meningitis (AM) and 12 patients with tension headache (TH). Numbers of IL-2 secreting cells were higher in MS patients compared to patients with AM + TH after stimulation with myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), but not after stimulation with myelin basic protein (MBP). In response to MAG, MOG and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) the frequencies of IL-2 secreting cells were higher in patients with MS than TH, while there were no differences between AM and TH to any of the tested antigens. Between patients with MS and AM there was no difference regarding frequency of IL-2 secreting cells in response to any of the tested antigens except MAG to which the response was higher in MS patients. Six of 10 MS patients had IL-2 secreting cells in response to all four myelin antigens (MBP + PLP + MAG + MOG) or to three antigens, while this broad reactivity was not found in any control patient. There was no correlation between numbers of IL-2 secreting cells in MS patients and clinical variables, including exacerbation versus remission, disability and duration of disease. The results suggest that the systemic T cell response in patients with MS is directed to several antigens.
Synthesis of deacetyl-thymosin beta 12 and examination of its immunological effects on the impaired T and B lymphocytes in uremic patients.	Deacetyl-thymosin beta 12 was synthesized in a conventional manner by assembling six peptide fragments followed by deprotection with 1 M trifluoromethanesulfonic acid-thioanisole (molar ratio, 1:1) in trifluoroacetic acid in the presence of m-cresol and dimethyl-selenium. Incubation of peripheral lymphocytes isolated from uremic patients with the synthetic deacetyl-thymosin beta 12 showed an enhancing effect on the reduced beta lymphocytes but had no restoring effect on the impaired blastogenic response of T lymphocytes.
The use of immunoregulator preparations in the combined treatment of idiopathic hypothyroidism]	A comparative analysis of idiopathic hypothyroidism (IHT) outcomes in different therapeutic regimens which incorporated or did not incorporate splenin and sodium nucleinate showed more frequent disease exacerbations in patients who received no immunoactive drugs. Combined therapy reduced the number of patients with decompensation 3.7-fold. Stable IHT compensation was achieved in those patients who had received adjuvant splenin in 80.8% of cases, sodium nucleinate in 86.2% against a 40.9% response rate under conventional replacement therapy with thyreoidin.
Oral immunization with recombinant BCG induces cellular and humoral immune responses against the foreign antigen.	It has been shown recently that BCG can be used as a live recombinant vaccine to stimulate immune responses. Proliferative or cytotoxic T-cell responses against several viral proteins such as HIV Gag, Env or Nef were obtained after parenteral immunization with BCG expressing these proteins. Antibody responses were also obtained after immunization of mice with recombinant BCG strain which expressed lac Z under the control of a promoter sequence isolated from Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. We have used this recombinant vaccine in guinea-pigs to investigate the influence of various routes of immunization on the immunogenicity of a foreign antigen expressed by recombinant BCG. Guinea-pigs were immunized by oral, respiratory or intradermal routes and proliferative responses, delayed-type hypersensitivity and antibody responses specific for beta-galactosidase were followed for 16 weeks. Results demonstrated that humoral and cellular immune responses specific for beta-galactosidase can be produced in all groups of guinea-pigs. However, the respiratory and especially the oral route of administration induced higher local and systemic immune responses than the intradermal route of immunization. Moreover, the oral immunization of mice with this recombinant BCG induced IgA responses which could be detected in both sera and intestinal secretions. Therefore, this study demonstrates for the first time that oral immunization with recombinant BCG can induce strong cellular and humoral immune responses.
Avridine and LPS from Brucella ovis: effect on the memory induced by foot-and-mouth disease virus vaccination in mice.	Foot-and-mouth disease is one of the more economically important diseases among meat-producing biungulate species. In contrast to natural infection, current foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) vaccines, prepared with inactivated virus and adjuvants, elicit short-lived protection. The immunomodulating effect on FMDV vaccines of avridine and lipopolysaccharide of Brucella ovis (LPS) was tested in a murine model. The duration of immunity, protection, stimulation of immunocompetent cells producing a long-lasting secondary response and immunoglobulin (Ig) isotypes were examined. The incorporation of either immunomodulator into aqueous and oil vaccines induced a long-lasting specific antibody response. The neutralizing titres and protection were significantly higher than those observed in animals immunized with control vaccines. Data collected from repopulation assays indicated that the immunomodulators used participate in the activation of immune cell populations involved in long-lasting memory. This resulted in an efficient B-cell secondary response even in the absence of T cells, which were necessary for the stimulatory effect of the immunomodulators in donor mice. Avridine and LPS stimulated IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2b production, which was correlated with the improvement of the protection induced by these vaccines.
The effects of fatty acids on lymphocyte functions.	1. Lymphocytes play an important role in cell-mediated immunity and have been implicated in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. 2. Unsaturated fatty acids, including oleic, linoleic, alpha-linolenic, arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids, inhibit mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation in vitro. The inhibition of proliferation is dependent upon the concentration of fatty acid, the time during culture of fatty acid addition, the duration of exposure of the cells to the fatty acid and the chain length and degree of unsaturation of the fatty acid. 3. Unsaturated fatty acids suppress production of the immunoregulatory cytokine interleukin-2 by lymphocytes in vitro. 4. Triacylglycerols containing unsaturated fatty acids inhibit lymphocyte proliferation and natural killer cell activity in vitro. 5. Feeding weanling rats diets containing olive oil, evening primrose oil or fish oil results in suppression of lymphocyte proliferation. 6. Preliminary studies indicated that supplementation of the diet of healthy humans with fish oil-containing capsules suppresses lymphocyte proliferation and interleukin-2 production. 7. These effects, along with inhibitory effects upon the functions of other cells involved in the immune response, in particular monocytes and macrophages, indicate that certain unsaturated fatty acid-containing oils (particularly evening primrose oil and fish oil) may be of benefit in the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.
Lithium in vitro enhances interleukin-2 production by T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.	Cellular immunity is impaired in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). A decreased production of interleukin-2 by T cells isolated from blood of patients with SLE was found. The decrease correlated with severity of the disease. It was shown that incubation in vitro of T cells with 5 mM of lithium chloride augmented interleukin-2 production. The increase in cultures of T cells from patients with SLE was higher that than in healthy individuals. It is believed that lithium increases the cytosol inositol triphosphate level and subsequently augmented impaired intracellular signal transduction in the T cells from patients with SLE.
In vitro inhibition of cellular immune responses by benzodiazepines and PK 11195. Effects on mitogen- and alloantigen-driven lymphocyte proliferation and on IL-1, IL-2 synthesis and IL-2 receptor expression.	In vitro mitogen-driven lymphocyte proliferation tests (Con A, LPS) on murine lymph node and spleen cells revealed inhibition of T and B cell stimulation by different benzodiazepines and by PK 11195, with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. T cell responses as a consequence of recognition of alloantigens, as measured in mixed lymphocyte cultures (MLC), were affected in an analogous way. In all systems, agonists at peripheral type benzodiazepine receptors (Ro 5-4864 and the non-benzodiazepine compound PK 11195) and diazepam which acts on both, central and peripheral type benzodiazepine receptors, were most potent; clonazepam, a central type agonist, proved about half as active. The central type antagonist Ro 15-1788 failed to antagonize the action of diazepam and clonazepam. Variations among cells from several congenic strains of mice were modest. Cytotoxicity could not be made responsible for drug effects. The most susceptible stage of mitogen-triggered T and B lymphocyte proliferation was found to be at incipience. Radioresistant, adherent spleen cells, upon LPS-stimulation formed only small amounts of the cytokine IL-1. Its release was affected only at very high drug concentrations. Similar small amounts of IL-1 were generated during MLC; in this case, the drugs were about 10 times less potent than in mitogen-induced proliferation assays. Peripheral agonists were more active on IL-1 synthesis. Spleen cells stimulated with Con A and cultivated with the highest concentration of diazepam and clonazepam formed markedly greater amounts of IL-2 than those cultivated in medium, while at this concentration PK 11195 allowed no formation of the lymphokine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Interleukin-2 production is altered by copper deficiency.	Copper is an essential nutrient for optimal function of the immune system; deficiency results in impairment of both humoral and cell-mediated components. Copper deficiency in rodents results in decreased numbers of CD4+ (helper) and total T cells. This defect has been traced to impaired production of interleukin-2, a cytokine essential for T-cell division and differentiation. Impairment of quiescent cell proliferation is reversed by both in vivo and in vitro copper supplementation.
Immunosuppressive effects of highly chlorinated biphenyls and diphenyl ethers on T-cell dependent and independent antigens in mice.	The dose-dependent effects of 2,2',3,3',4,4',5,5',6-nonachlorobiphenyl (nonaCB), 2,2',3,3',4,4',5,6,6'-nonaCB, 2,2',3,3',4,5,5',6,6'-nonaCB and decaCB on the suppression of the splenic plaque-forming cell (PFC) response to the T-cell-dependent antigen, sheep red blood cells (SRBCs) and the T-cell-independent antigen, trinitrophenyl-lipopolysaccharide (TNP-LPS), were determined in genetically inbred mice. In addition, the induction of hepatic microsomal ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was also measured. The highly chlorinated biphenyls suppressed the splenic PFC response to SRBCs in C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice and were relatively more active in the former strain. The C57BL/6 mice are more responsive to aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor agonists than DBA/2 mice and these data support a possible role for the Ah receptor in mediating this response. However, previous studies with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) indicate that congeners with 3 or 4 ortho-chloro substituents are inactive as Ah receptor agonists and this was consistent with the minimal induction of hepatic microsomal EROD activity by the highly chlorinated biphenyls in both strains of mice. Thus, the results suggest that the inhibition of the splenic PFC response to SRBCs observed in this study was primarily an Ah receptor-independent response. Some of the highly chlorinated diphyenyl ethers namely decachlorodiphenyl ether and 2,2',3,3',4,4',5,6,6'-nonachlorodiphenyl ether, inhibited the antigenic response to TNP-LPS in C57 BL/6 mice. The results indicate that the suppression of the TNP-LPS-mediated immune response may be a more reliable indicator of the Ah receptor-dependent immunotoxicity of halogenated hydrocarbons.
The effect of cigarette smoking on the indexes of immunity and acute phase reaction in subjects with occupational exposure to organic solvents.	The study was carried out in 156 men, including 49 nonsmokers and 47 smokers who had never been exposed to chemicals, 19 nonsmokers exposed to organic solvents, and 41 smokers exposed to organic solvents. The results of toxicological analysis of air in the working place carried out in the range depending on the type of solvents used in the process of lacquering of steel cans and on the data obtained from the producer showed that the solvents contained benzene, toluene, xylene and their derivatives partly hydrogenated, paraffin hydrocarbons, oleins, naphthenes (components of painter's naphtha), monohydric and polyhydric alcohols (butanol, cyclohexanol, butyloglycol), esters (ethylglycol acetate, butyl acetate) and ketones (methyl isobutyl ketone, cyclohexanone). Measured benzene concentrations varied from 0 to 370 mg x m-3 (0 to 116 ppm), with arithmetic mean annual averages of about 100 mg x m-3 (31 ppm) in the late 1960's and less than 50 mg x m-3 (16 ppm) in the 1970's. In the 1980's values for the TWA were 0-38 mg x m-3 (0-12 ppm) with arithmetic mean averages of about 19 mg x m-3 (6 ppm) and for the level of benzene 0-351 mg x m-3 (0-110 ppm), with arithmetic mean annual averages of about 48 mg x m-3 (15 ppm). Phenol concentration in the urine of the workers in groups was 7.9 +/- 3.5; 10.0 +/- 5.8; 16.8 +/- 6.2 and 18.4 +/- 9.7 mg x 1(-1) respectively. Hippuric acid concentration in the urine of the workers in groups was 496 +/- 326, 538 +/- 341, 982 +/- 420 and 1107 +/- 507 mg x 1(-1) respectively. The parameters of immunity and proteins acute phase reaction were determined, measuring the count of T, B, and "non-T, non-B" circulating lymphocytes, the concentration of immunoglobulins, lysozyme, C3c, C4, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, haptoglobulin and ceruloplasmin in serum. The results of the presented study suggest the role of cigarette smoking as a co-factor in the immunological changes brought out by occupational exposure to organic solvents. This phenomenon is reflected in the changes of IgA, IgD, IgG, IgM and lysozyme in the serum, and number of circulating T cells.
Expansion and tumour specific cytokine secretion of bryostatin-activated T-cells from cryopreserved axillary lymph nodes of breast cancer patients.	Current adoptive immunotherapy strategies in cancer patients require large numbers of activated T-cells and are limited by the availability of autologous tumour. We describe a novel method of T-cell activation that produced relatively rapid, high-fold expansion of stored, frozen lymphocytes obtained from the lymph nodes of 20 breast cancer patients during axillary dissection but does not require autologous tumour. In vitro exposure of thawed cells to bryostatin-1 (B), a non-tumour promoting protein kinase C activator and ionomycin (I), a calcium ionophore, at day 0 followed by culture in low dose interleukin-2 (IL-2 20 units ml-1) and restimulation again on day 10 results in 269-28,206 fold (geometric mean = 2254) expansion in cell numbers counted 17 days after initial stimulation. Analysis of cell surface markers revealed that B/I expanded human cells were predominantly T-cells (83-97%) and consisted of a mixture of CD8+ (46-74%) and CD4+ (4-30%) cells. B/I expanded cells did not lyse autologous tumour cells when tested in a 4-h 51Cr release assay, but murine studies reported previously have demonstrated specific and curative in vivo efficacy in MCA-105 tumour-bearing mice despite an inability to lyse autologous tumour in vitro. B/I expanded T-cells from five of six patients secreted the cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in response to co-culture with autologous tumour cells but not with irrelevant tumour. These results are analogous to findings in a murine model, in which non-cytolytic B/I expanded T-cells mediated specific, curative anti-tumour effects in vivo, and lay the groundwork for a clinical trial of this novel strategy for the adoptive immunotherapy of breast cancer patients.
Calcium-dependent efflux of K+ ions from stimulated T lymphocytes of young and old mice.	The changes in the rate of efflux of potassium cations from ionomycin-, A23187-, and Concanavalin A (Con A)-stimulated lymphocytes from young and old mice were studied with an ion-selective electrode in a 'half-micro' system. It was found that, for both types of stimuli, the maximal rate of Ca(2+)-dependent efflux of K+ from young T cells was more than twice that attained by old cells. A bimodality of the curve illustrating change of efflux rate was observed, indicating possible existence of two types of Ca(2+)-dependent conductances. The kinetics of change of the efflux rate was similar for young and old cells stimulated with calcium ionophores, but differed in the cells stimulated with Con A. There, a lag period between mitogen addition and onset of measurable K+ efflux was absent in the case of old T cells, suggesting that function of other (Ca-independent?) mechanisms of K+ efflux during the mitogen stimulation may also be changed there. The measured efflux of K+ was only partially dependent on the extracellular Ca2+. Also, it was quantitatively different in a 'physiological' medium containing 140 mM Na+, as compared to a sodium-free medium. Different blockers of potassium, calcium and sodium channels had at least partially inhibitory effect on the measured flux. Presented findings indicate that potassium conductance through Ca(2+)-gated K+ channels is impaired in T cells of old mice. Ca(2+)-dependent efflux of K+ in murine T cells is apparently conducted by a specific class of membrane channels, possibly consisting of two types of channels with different activation kinetics and pharmacological sensitivities (expressed in different subpopulations of T cells?). Impaired potassium conductance in old T cells is discussed as one of possible causes of age-related dysfunction of the immune system.
Immunomodulating effects of antibiotics influencing digestive flora]	Mucosal surfaces are habitats of the physiological microflora and are closely related to the mucosal immune compartment (mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, MALT). Recently, considerable evidence has been accumulated showing that various members of the physiological microflora liberate low molecular weight peptides which, apparently, are essential for adequate immune responses of the host. Antibiotic decontamination (e.g. of the BALB/c-mouse intestinal tract) results in a lack of generation of immunopriming microbial peptides leading to immunosuppression. Biochemical analysis of the peptides revealed reproducible chromatographic fractions which selectively influence maturation, proliferation, and activation of lymphatic cells.
Are antibiotics immunomodulators?]	This review of the literature, although non complete, involving different observations, experiments and documented demonstrations, suggest the real importance of the interrelations existing between, the pathogenic bacteria, the specific and non specific reactions of the normal or infected host and the antibiotics. The bacterial infections are potent immunomodulators by causing significant alterations in one or more mediators of homeostasis (coagulation, complement, inflammation), inducing cellular and tissular alterations more or less dramatic depending upon the number, the virulence of the bacteria and the immune status of the host. Antibiotics in reducing the number of the infecting pathologic bacteria, in modifying their pathologic and virulence factors might them be considered as immunorestoring molecules. On the other hand, when large numbers of bacteria are killed rapidly by bactericidal antibiotics, their cytoplasmic enzymes or bacterial cell wall structures, are rapidly released locally and are able to amplify the various systems involved in the deleterious inflammatory reaction. Thus depending on their dose and their mode of action, antibiotics could be considered as immunomodulators, albeit indirectly in modifying the pathophysiology of the host, in inhibiting or enhancing the release of immunoreactive bacterial molecules. Moreover antibiotics have been shown to interfere directly on the non specific and specific defenses mechanisms. Until the recent years, only the immunotoxicological aspect has been evaluated, involving mostly the immunopharmacologic screening of the antibiotics effects on phagocytic cells or on the effectors of the immune responses. Several recent examples are given that illustrate a new approach looking at the molecular level of the cellular action of antibiotics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Modulation of 8-methoxypsoralen-DNA photoadduct formation by cell differentiation, mitogenic stimulation and phorbol ester exposure in murine T lymphocytes.	The effects of cell differentiation and mitogen and phorbol ester stimulation on the formation of 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP)-DNA photoadducts in murine T lymphocytes were examined using 3H-8-MOP. While there were no significant differences in 8-MOP photoadduct formation among BALB/c thymocytes, splenocytes, splenic T cells and MRL/lpr lymph node cells, BALB/c bone marrow cells showed fewer photoadducts than did the lymphocytes. This suggested that proliferating progenitor cells may be resistant to 8-MOP photoadduct formation. Incubation of purified splenic T cells with lectin mitogens for 2 h or with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) for 2-43 h resulted in reduction of 8-MOP photoadduct formation in the DNA, whereas 64 h cultivation with these agents augmented the photoadduct formation. The reduction of photoadduct formation induced by phytohemagglutinin was restored by the further addition of a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, H-7, to the culture. Thus, it is assumed that the reduction of adduct formation evoked by mitogens and PMA is mediated in part by the activation of PKC in the cells. On the other hand, the augmentation of the adduct formation induced by the longer-period cultures with mitogens and PMA appeared to be caused by down-regulation of PKC. The present study showed that the stimulatory signals in which PKC is presumably involved affect the ability of cells to form 8-MOP-DNA photoadducts.
Dynamic aspects of cytoskeletal protein distribution in T lymphocytes: involvement of calcium in spectrin reorganization.	Our studies on the lymphocyte cytoskeleton have revealed a significant heterogeneity in the subcellular distribution of lymphocyte spectrin in vivo. Two model systems have been characterized in which this protein exhibits dynamic properties in response to activation signals. In this study, we have investigated the role of calcium in the activation-induced reorganization of spectrin in one of these systems, the DO-11.10 T cell hybridoma. DO-11.10 cells, as well as several other in vitro T cell models, can homogeneously and constitutively express a distinct cytoplasmic aggregate of spectrin that is rapidly fragmented upon activation. The reversible dissipation of the aggregate of spectrin is accompanied by an increase in the levels of spectrin diffusely distributed throughout the cytoplasm and at the plasma membrane. Pretreatment of cells with calcium-free medium, or with medium containing ethyleneglycol-bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether)N,N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA) or verapamil, significantly blocked the reorganization of spectrin induced by Concanavalin A or the calcium ionophore A23187, and also prevented the release of IL-2 from these cells. Further, immunofluorescent and ultrastructural analyses revealed abnormalities in the organization of spectrin induced by these treatments. These findings are discussed in light of our other studies, indicating a role for spectrin in early events associated with activation of T lymphocytes in vivo and in vitro.
DNA fragmentation induced in lymphocytes by gamma irradiation or dexamethasone: inhibition by diethyldithiocarbamate (DTC), potentiated by zinc.	Apoptosis is a process of physiological cell death characterized by DNA fragmentation, chromatin condensation, loss of membrane asymmetry and cell lethality. In the present study, apoptosis induced in thymocytes by dexamethasone or gamma irradiation is evaluated by flow cytometry, gel electrophoresis and other techniques. Treatment of thymocytes with DTC or zinc shows that these products can inhibit radiation- or dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. Moreover, a synergistic effect is observed by using associations of both products (5 microM DTC + 50 microM ZnSO4): ZnSO4 potentiates the effect of DTC at concentrations for which the molecules used separately show a low efficacy. These results indicate that DNA fragmentation induced by dexamethasone or irradiation in thymocytes share some identical mechanisms.
Effects of copper-based dental casting alloys on two lymphocyte cell lines and the secretion of interleukin 2 and IgG.	In the oral environment, gingival lymphocytes are involved in maintaining the local immune defense of periodontal tissues. The corrosion rates of copper-based dental casting alloys and the accumulation of corrosion products in host gingiva raise concerns about the effects of these corrosion products on immune responses in the oral cavity. The aim of this study ws to investigate the hypothesis that immune function may be altered by copper dental alloy corrosion products. In vitro cell culture studies were used to analyze the effects of three copper-based dental alloys on a T-cell and B-cell line and their secretion of soluble immune mediators (IL-2) and effectors (IgG), respectively. Results of this study revealed that corrosion products released from copper alloys in 24 h have the ability to reduce cellular viability, alter proliferation, and modulate the production of soluble immune mediators. These results support the hypothesis that copper dental ally corrosion products may alter immune responses and thereby contribute to a variety of dental pathological conditions.
An evaluation of the antioxidant and antiviral action of extracts of rosemary and Provenal herbs.	Extracts of herbs and spices are increasingly of interest in the food industry because they retard oxidative degradation of lipids. There is also increasing interest in the antiviral activity of plant products. A liquid, deodorized rosemary extract and an oily extract of a mixture of Provenal herbs were tested for antioxidant and antiviral action in vitro. The rosemary extract (Herbor 025) and the extract of Provenal herbs (Spice Cocktail) inhibited peroxidation of phospholipid liposomes with 50% inhibition concentration values of 0.0009% (v/v) and 0.0035% (v/v), respectively. Herbor 025 and the spice cocktail (at 0.2%, v/v) reacted with trichloromethylperoxyl radical with calculated rates of 2.7 x 10(4) s-1 and 1.5 x 10(3) s-1, respectively. The main active components in the herbal preparations, carnosol and carnosic acid, at 0.05% (v/v) react with rate constants of (1-3) x 10(6) M-1 sec-1 and 2.7 x 10(7) M-1 sec-1, respectively. Both extracts show good antioxidant activity in the Rancimat test, especially in lard. Herbor 025 and the spice cocktail inhibited human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection at very low concentrations which were also cytotoxic. However, purified carnosol exhibited definite anti-HIV activity at a concentration (8 microM) which was not cytotoxic. Both preparations promoted some DNA damage in the copper-phenanthroline and the bleomycin-iron systems. The two herbal preparations possess antioxidant properties that may make them useful in the food matrix.
AAMP, a newly identified protein, shares a common epitope with alpha-actinin and a fast skeletal muscle fiber protein.	AAMP (angio-associated migratory cell protein) shares a common epitope with alpha-actinin and a fast-twitch skeletal muscle fiber protein. An antigenic peptide, P189, derived from the sequence of AAMP was synthesized. Polyclonal antibodies generated to P189 readily react with AAMP (52 kDa) in brain and activated T lymphocyte lysates, alpha-actinin (100 kDa) in all tissues tested, and a 23-kDa protein in skeletal muscle lysates. The antibody's reactivity for alpha-actinin can be competed with the purified protein. Activation of T lymphocytes does not alter the degree of alpha-actinin reactivity with anti-P189 as it does for AAMP's reactivity in these lysates. Competition studies with peptide variants show that six amino acid residues, ESESES, constitute a common epitope in all three proteins in human tissues. The antigenic determinant is continuous in AAMP but discontinuous (or assembled) in alpha-actinin. alpha-Actinin does not contain this epitope in its linear sequence so reactivity is attributed to an epitope formed by its secondary structure. Limited digestion of the reactive proteins with thermolysin destroys anti-P189's reactivity for alpha-actinin while reactivity for recombinant AAMP is retained. Specificity of anti-P189 for human skeletal muscle fast fibers seen on immunoperoxidase staining may be explained by anti-P189's reactivity with a 23-kDa protein found only in skeletal muscle lysates. Its pattern of reactivity is the same as that obtained using monoclonal anti-skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain in type II (fast-twitch) fibers.
Endotoxin activates T cell interferon-gamma secretion in the presence of endothelium.	T lymphocytes (T cells) and their secreted lymphokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) play important mediator roles in endotoxin-induced inflammation. We sought to explore the necessary conditions for and degree of LPS-induced T cell activation for IFN-gamma secretion in a human syngeneic microvascular endothelial-T cell coculture system. Human peripheral blood T cells, with or without monocytes, were cocultured in the presence or absence of a syngeneic human adipose microvascular endothelial cell (HAMVEC) monolayer. Cocultures were stimulated with LPS (1 microgram/ml) and 3-day coculture supernatants assayed for IFN-gamma and IL-2 by ELISA. In the absence of HAMVEC, LPS-induced T cell activation for IFN-gamma secretion was only minimally demonstrated in the presence of monocytes. However, in the presence of HAMVEC, LPS activated T cells for IFN-gamma secretion in the absence of monocytes and markedly augmented the response in the presence of monocytes. A subset of donor cocultures showed no IFN-gamma response to LPS. IL-2 was not secreted as part of the LPS-induced T cell activation response. Our data support a hypothesis that endothelium serves as an accessory cell for T cell IFN-gamma secretion in endotoxin-induced inflammation. T cell-endothelial interactions may play a crucial role in promoting T cell activation during LPS-induced inflammation.
Differential phosphorylation of the T lymphocyte costimulatory receptor CD28. Activation-dependent changes and regulation by protein kinase C.	Treatment of T lymphocytes with phorbol ester and anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody (mAb) can induce proliferation and interleukin 2 production by triggering still undefined intracellular signaling pathways. We have developed a deglycosylation procedure that allows the precise identification of a distinct CD28 protein band, facilitating the analysis of activation-dependent changes in the phosphorylation state of CD28. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) treatment induced the in vitro phosphorylation of CD28 on threonine as detected in immune complex kinase assays. This effect of PMA was (i) rapid, preceding a PMA-induced increase in CD28 surface expression; (ii) occurred using kinase buffer containing either manganese or magnesium; and (iii) was found in human peripheral T cells, Jurkat T cells, and in a Jurkat subclone, J.Cam1, that is deficient in Lck tyrosine kinase activity. In contrast, anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody stimulation led to in vitro phosphorylation of CD28 on tyrosine that was manganese-dependent and required Lck tyrosine kinase activity, as it was undetectable in J.Cam1 cells. Importantly, CD28 was phosphorylated on tyrosine in vivo as detected with anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies after stimulation with anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody. The in vivo tyrosine phosphorylation of CD28 was inhibited by PMA treatment and was absent in J.Cam1 cells. Thus, the CD28 coreceptor can trigger different intracellular signaling pathways, depending upon the nature of the initial costimulatory signal.
Immune modulation by interleukin-12 in tumor-bearing mice receiving vitamin D3 treatments to block induction of immunosuppressive granulocyte/macrophage progenitor cells.	Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC-LN7) tumors stimulate myelopoiesis and increase the presence of granulocyte/macrophage (GM) progenitor cells having natural suppressor activity. Treatment of these tumor-bearing mice with interleukin-12 (IL-12) resulted in minimal immune modulation. The objective of this study was to determine whether eliminating natural suppressor activity would allow for immune stimulation by IL-12. Treatment of LLC-LN7 tumor-bearing mice with vitamin D3 eliminated natural suppressor activity. In mice that were first treated with vitamin D3 and then also with IL-12, there was stimulation of splenic T cell proliferation in response to immobilized anti-CD3 plus IL-2. In addition, spleen and lymph node cells from vitamin-D3/IL-12-treated tumor-bearing mice became stimulated in response to autologous tumor to produce interferon gamma (IFN gamma), although IL-2 production was not stimulated. A prominent effect of the combined vitamin-D3/IL-12 treatment regimen was the synergistic augmentation of autologous tumor-specific cytolytic activity within the regional lymph nodes. The generation of these tumor-specific effector cells required the presence of the tumor mass since such activity was not elicited in the lymph nodes of mice from which the tumors had been surgically excised. The results of this study show that, after treatment of tumor bearers with vitamin D3 to eliminate GM-suppressor cells, IL-12 can induce select regional antitumor immune responses, particularly IFN gamma production and cytolysis by regional lymph node cells of autologous tumor.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide-38 inhibit IL-10 production in murine T lymphocytes.	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a neuropeptide present in the peptidergic innervation of lymphoid organs and expressed in thymocytes and peripheral lymphocytes has been previously reported to modulate cytokine expression in T lymphocytes. In this study, we investigated the effects of VIP and of the structurally related neuropeptide PACAP-38 on the expression of IL-10 in murine lymphocyte cultures. Both neuropeptides inhibit IL-10 production by spleen cells or thymocytes activated via the TCR-associated CD3 complex in a similar dose-response manner. The inhibition is specific, presumably mediated through the VIP-R1, and maximum inhibitory levels are achieved within the first 5 to 15 min of exposure to VIP or PACAP-38. CD4+ T cells function as direct cellular targets for the two neuropeptides. The fact that VIP, PACAP-38, and forskolin, all known cAMP inducers, also inhibit IL-10 production, suggests the participation of cAMP in signal transduction. VIP and PACAP-38 regulate transcriptional expression of IL-10, since IL-10 steady state mRNA levels are significantly reduced by treatment with the two neuropeptides. These results expand the range of neuroendocrine-regulated cytokines and support the idea that neuropeptides such as VIP and PACAP, which are released or produced in the local lymphoid microenvironment and specifically modulate the expression of various cytokines, may participate in the intricate cytokine network controlling local immune responses.
Rat RT6.2 and mouse Rt6 locus 1 are NAD+: arginine ADP ribosyltransferases with auto-ADP ribosylation activity.	RT6 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked protein found on the surface of mature rat T lymphocytes. Cells that express RT6 have an immunoregulatory function and modulate the expression of autoimmune diabetes mellitus in the BioBreeding rat. A homologue of the rat RT6 gene, designated Rt6, has been identified in the mouse, but expression of mouse Rt6 protein has not been documented. Rat RT6 is known to be a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) glycohydrolase. We now report that rat RT6.2 and recombinant mouse Rt6 locus 1 proteins possess auto-ADP ribosylation activity. In addition, mouse Rt6 but not rat RT6, catalyzes the ADP ribosylation of exogenous acceptors such as histones. The ADP-ribosyl-protein bonds in auto-ADP-ribosylated rat RT6.2, auto-ADP-ribosylated mouse Rt6, and ADP-ribosylhistone synthesized by Rt6 were stable to HgCl2 and HCl, but labile to NH2OH, consistent with ADP ribosylarginine linkages. To determine if these enzymatic activities could affect the function of rat T cells, the effect of substrate availability on lymphocyte proliferation was examined. An inverse correlation was observed between NAD+ concentration in the medium and the ability of rat T cells to respond to anti-CD3, ConA, and PMA plus ionomycin. The data suggest that lymphocyte surface ADP ribosyltransferases could be involved in signaling and immunoregulatory processes.
The immunosuppressive fungal metabolite gliotoxin specifically inhibits transcription factor NF-kappaB.	Opportunistic infections, such as aspergillosis, are among the most serious complications suffered by immunocompromised patients. Aspergillus fumigatus and other pathogenic fungi synthesize a toxic epipolythiodioxopiperazine metabolite called gliotoxin. Gliotoxin exhibits profound immunosuppressive activity in vivo. It induces apoptosis in thymocytes, splenocytes, and mesenteric lymph node cells and can selectively deplete bone marrow of mature lymphocytes. The molecular mechanism by which gliotoxin exerts these effects remains unknown. Here, we report that nanomolar concentrations of gliotoxin inhibited the activation of transcription factor NF-kappaB in response to a variety of stimuli in T and B cells. The effect of gliotoxin was specific because, at the same concentrations, the toxin did not affect activation of the transcription factor NF-AT or of interferon-responsive signal transducers and activators of transcription. Likewise, the activity of the constitutively DNA-binding transcription factors Oct-1 and cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB), as well as the activation of protein tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn, was not altered by gliotoxin. Very high concentrations of gliotoxin prevented NF-kappaB DNA binding in vitro. However, in intact cells, inhibition of NF-kappaB did not occur at the level of DNA binding; rather, the toxin appeared to prevent degradation of IkappaB-alpha, NF-kappaB's inhibitory subunit. Our data raise the possibility that the immunosuppression observed during aspergillosis results in part from gliotoxin-mediated NF-kappaB inhibition.
delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol selectively inhibits macrophage costimulatory activity and down-regulates heat-stable antigen expression.	delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure inhibits numerous immunologic functions of macrophages. The ability of THC-exposed macrophages to provide costimulatory signals to helper T cell hybridomas was investigated by induction of interleukin-2 secretion by T cells in response to immobilized monoclonal anti-CD3 antibody. Exogenous interleukin-1 did not deliver a costimulatory signal to these T cells, suggesting that macrophage costimulatory activity was mediated through cell surface molecules. Modulation of the T cell responses by THC depended on the source of costimulation. THC did not suppress costimulatory activity provided by peritoneal macrophages or immobilized fibronectin. THC at low concentrations markedly diminished the costimulatory activity of a macrophage hybridoma to activate one T cell but not another. Inhibition of costimulation by THC inversely correlated with the loss of activity caused by paraformaldehyde fixation of macrophages. THC at 10(-8) M significantly decreased expression of costimulatory heat-stable antigen, which is resistant to fixation, on the macrophage hybridoma. However, expression of costimulatory B7-1 and B7-2 molecules, which are sensitive to fixation, was not affected by THC. Therefore, THC selectively suppresses a fixation-resistant costimulatory signal to helper T cells in part by diminishing expression of heat-stable antigen.
Inhibition by rapamycin of P-glycoprotein 170-mediated export from normal lymphocytes.	P-glycoprotein 170 encoded by the MDR-1 gene mediates export of substrates including some immunosuppressive drugs. Rapamycin was compared to cyclosporine A for its ability to inhibit P-glycoprotein on normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Rhodamine 123 dye efflux measures P-glycoprotein activity and inhibition of P-glycoprotein results in dye retention. Normal CD4+, CD8+ and B cells include a substantial subset with cyclosporine A-sensitive rhodamine efflux. Rh123 dye efflux is also inhibited by rapamycin at comparable drug levels used in transplant models. CsA is approximately 100-fold more effective on inhibition of PBMC P-gp than is RAPA. P-glycoprotein inhibition of ex vivo lymphocytes with three multi-drug resistant T-cell lines showed susceptibility of P-glycoprotein to rapamycin dependent on the cell type. Compared to cyclosporine A, the reduced ability of rapamycin to inhibit P-glycoprotein reflects a reduced avidity in its binding to P-glycoprotein and perhaps increased access to the cell interior. The increased efficiency of RAPA as an immunosuppressive may in part be a result of its relatively low avidity for P-glycoprotein. The authors speculate that interactions with P-glycoprotein may partially modulate the immunosuppressive effects of rapamycin.
RO 31-8220, a novel protein kinase C inhibitor, inhibits early and late T cell activation events.	The improvement of graft survival over the past decade has mainly been due to the development of more highly specific immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporine (CsA) and FK506. CsA and FK506 inhibit T cell activation by interfering with the calcium-mediated pathway, one of two pathways needed for T cell activation. The other pathway, mediated by protein kinase C (PKC), is not currently a target of any clinically used immunosuppressive agent. The purpose of this study was to assess the immunosuppressive properties of Ro 31-8220, a member of a new family of potent and selective PKC inhibitors. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from the blood of normal human donors and utilized in a series of standard immunological assays. Three discrete activation events were inhibited by Ro 31-8220: mitogen-induced interleukin (IL)-2 production (IC50 80 nM), IL-2-dependent T lymphoblast proliferation (IC50 350 nM), and IL-2Ralpha (CD25) expression (control cells were 83% CD25+, mean fluorescence intensity = 163 +/- 4, 400-nM-treated cells were 56% CD25+, mean fluorescence intensity = 130 +/- 7). Noninhibitory doses of CsA (8 nM) or FK506 (0.2 nM) suppressed mitogen-induced IL-2 production by 60-80% when combined with a noninhibitory dose (25 nM) of Ro 31-8220, indicating the potent synergy between these agents. The ability of Ro 31-8220 to inhibit both early and late activation events and to synergize with CsA/FK506 suggests that this family of compounds has great potential as immunosuppressive agents and as probes with which to elucidate the role of PKC in T cell activation.
Decrease in cellularity and expression of adhesion molecules by anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha monoclonal antibody treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	The effect of chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) monoclonal antibody (MAb) therapy on synovial inflammation was studied in order to address the hypothesis that anti-TNF alpha therapy leads to down-regulation of adhesion molecules and a decrease in inflammatory cell influx in synovial tissue (ST).
The role of experimental chronic renal failure and aluminium intoxication in cellular immune response.	A positive correlation between successful kidney transplantation, few rejection episodes, greater susceptibility to infection and morbidity in patients with high tissue levels of aluminium (Al) indicate that the metal may play a role in the immune response. The aim of this study was to determine if experimental aluminium intoxication could result in significant changes in lymphocyte activity in uraemic and nonuraemic rats.
Deoxynucleotide pool depletion and sustained inhibition of ribonucleotide reductase and DNA synthesis after treatment of human lymphoblastoid cells with 2-chloro-9-(2-deoxy-2-fluoro-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl) adenine.	The action of the new adenine nucleoside analogue 2-chloro-9-(2-deoxy-2-fluoro-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl)adenine (Cl-F-ara-A) on DNA synthesis was evaluated both in whole cells and in vitro assay systems with purified DNA polymerases. [3H]Thymidine incorporation into DNA in human lymphoblastoid CEM cells was inhibited by Cl-F-ara-A in a concentration-dependent manner that was not reversed 72 h after removal of Cl-F-ara-A from the medium. Deoxynucleotide pools were depressed after incubation of Cl-F-ara-A for 3 h and only partially recovered following washing the cells into drug-free medium. The most pronounced decrease occurred in the dCTP pool, quantitatively followed by the dATP, dGTP, and dTTP pools. This was in concordance with the results of in situ assays of ribonucleotide reductase, which demonstrated profound inhibition of CDP reduction in cells incubated with Cl-F-ara-A; reduction of ADP, GDP, and UDP were affected to lesser extents. Reductase activity was inversely correlated with the cellular Cl-F-ara-ATP level, and inhibition of the enzyme was saturated when cellular Cl-F-ara-ATP reached 25 microM. In vitro DNA primer extension assays indicated that Cl-F-ara-ATP competed with dATP for incorporation into A sites of the extending DNA strand catalyzed by both human DNA polymerases alpha and epsilon. The incorporation of Cl-F-ara-AMP into DNA inhibited DNA strand elongation; the most pronounced effect was observed at Cl-F-ara-ATP:dATP values >1. The sustained inhibition of ribonucleotide reductase and the consequent depletion of deoxynucleotide triphosphate pools result in a cellular concentration ratio of dATP to Cl-F-ara-ATP, which favors analogue incorporation into DNA, an action that has been strongly correlated with loss of viability.
Mechanisms of drug-induced lupus. II. T cells overexpressing lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 become autoreactive and cause a lupuslike disease in syngeneic mice.	Current theories propose that systemic lupus erythematosus develops when genetically predisposed individuals are exposed to certain environmental agents, although how these agents trigger lupus is uncertain. Some of these agents, such as procainamide, hydralazine, and UV-light inhibit T cell DNA methylation, increase lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) (CD11a/CD18) expression, and induce autoreactivity in vitro, and adoptive transfer of T cells that are made autoreactive by this mechanism causes a lupuslike disease. The mechanism by which these cells cause autoimmunity is unknown. In this report, we present evidence that LFA-1 overexpression is sufficient to induce autoimmunity. LFA-1 overexpression was induced on cloned murine Th2 cells by transfection, resulting in autoreactivity. Adoptive transfer of the transfected, autoreactive cells into syngeneic recipients caused a lupuslike disease with anti-DNA antibodies, an immune complex glomerulonephritis and pulmonary alveolitis, similar to that caused by cells treated with procainamide. These results indicate that agents or events which modify T cell DNA methylation may induce autoimmunity by causing T cell LFA-1 overexpression. Since T cells from patients with active lupus have hypomethylated DNA and overexpressed LFA-1, this mechanism could be important in the development of human autoimmunity.
Molecular mechanisms of new immunosuppressants.	Maintenance immunosuppressive drugs act by partially blocking rate-limiting steps in the immune response. The new maintenance immunosuppressive drugs are either inhibitors of de novo synthesis of nucleotides (purines or pyrimidines), or are immunophilin-binding drugs that inhibit signal transduction in lymphocytes. The new inhibitors of de novo nucleotide synthesis include mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mizoribine (MZ), brequinar (BQR), and leflunomide (LEF). MMF and MZ act to inhibit de novo purine synthesis, by inhibition of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH). They create a selective immunodeficiency in T and B lymphocytes. MMF is hydrolyzed to mycophenolic acid (MPA), an uncompetitive inhibitor of IMPDH. MPA reduces the pools of guanine nucleotides, and increases some adenine nucleotides, inhibiting the cell cycle. Thus the number of specific effector T and B lymphocytes is reduced by limiting clonal expansion. MZ is a competitive inhibitor of IMPDH, which creates a similar defect. The relative clinical effectiveness of MMF versus MZ is not known. MMF has been approved in a number of countries; MZ has been approved in Japan. The inhibitors of de novo pyrimidine synthesis (BQR, LEF) act on the enzyme dehydroorotate dehydrogenase. Neither is currently in clinical trials in transplantation. The new immunophilin-binding drugs inhibit either the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin (CN) [tacrolimus (or FK-506) and the microemulsion form of cyclosporine (CsA)] or signaling from growth factor receptors [rapamycin (sirolimus)]. Tacrolimus binds to FK binding protein-12 (FKBP-12) to create a complex that inhibits CN. CsA binds to cyclophilin to create a complex that inhibits CN. Inhibition of CN prevents activation of cytokine genes in T cells. The relative clinic effectiveness of tacrolimus versus microemulsion CsA is unknown. Rapamycin inhibits signaling from growth factor receptors, such as IL-2R. Rapamycin binds to FKBP to create a complex that engages proteins called TOR (target of rapamycin), or RAFT (rapamycin and FKBP target), which may be kinases. The result is a block in the ability of cytokine receptors to activate cell cycling, interfering with clonal expression. Deoxyspergualin, a parenteral drug in development for induction or antirejection therapy, may inhibit intracellular chaperoning by Hsc70, a member of the heat shock protein family. It may have its principal effect by inhibiting the activation of transcription factor NF-kappa B in antigen-presenting cells and monocytes.
Purine metabolism and immunosuppressive effects of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).	Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a novel immunosuppressive drug that shows promise in preventing the rejection of organ allografts and in the treatment of ongoing rejection. Orally administered MMF is hydrolyzed by esterases in the intestine and blood to release mycophenolic acid (MPA), a potent, selective, noncompetitive inhibitor of the type 2 isoform of inosine monophosphate dehydroxygenase (IMPDH) expressed in activated human T and B lymphocytes. By inhibiting IMPDH, MPA depletes the pool of dGTP required for DNA synthesis. MPA has a more potent cytostatic effect on lymphocytes than on other cell types, and this is the principal mechanism by which immunosuppressive activity is exerted. MPA also depletes pools of GTP in human lymphocytes and monocytes, thereby inhibiting the synthesis of fucose- and mannose-containing saccharide components of membrane glycoproteins. These are recognized by the family of adhesion molecules termed selectins. By this mechanism, MPA could decrease the recruitment of lymphocytes and monocytes into sites of graft rejection. In addition to preventing allograft rejection, MMF suppresses graft-versus-host reactions in lethal and nonlethal murine models. MMF inhibits primary antibody responses more efficiently than secondary responses. MPA inhibits the proliferation of human B lymphocytes transformed by Epstein-Barr virus and is not mutagenic. Clinically attainable concentrations of MPA suppress the proliferation of human arterial smooth muscle cells. These two properties of MPA may decrease the risk of lymphoma development and proliferative arteriopathy in long-term recipients of MMF.
New concepts in tolerance.	Increasing the immunologic specificity of immunosuppressive therapies used to prevent graft rejection is one of the fundamental aims of research designed to develop new approaches for immunosuppression. The objective of work in this area is to identify both strategies and the mechanisms responsible for the induction of tolerance to alloantigens in vivo. Three topics in this area of transplantation immunobiology are considered: (i) The tools available for investigating the induction of tolerance to alloantigens, including T-cell clones, transgenic mice, and neonatal and adult models of tolerance induction. (ii) Strategies for tolerance induction that are being explored in experimental models and in clinical transplantation. These strategies can be divided into two categories: those that aim to induce tolerance in the long term after transplantation and those that aim to induce unresponsiveness at the time of grafting. (iii) The mechanisms responsible for the induction of tolerance to alloantigens. Five nonmutually exclusive hypotheses have been proposed to explain the induction of peripheral tolerance. These are, in broad terms, deletion, anergy, ignorance or helplessness, exhaustion and suppression. The immune status of the recipient may influence which of these mechanisms operates in any particular situation. What is apparent from all studies is that tolerance induction is a dynamic process, and any or all of these mechanisms may be operating at different stages of the induction and maintenance process.
IL-10 production is enhanced in human T cells by IL-12 and IL-6 and in monocytes by tumor necrosis factor-alpha.	IL-10, an immunoregulatory cytokine produced by T cells and monocytes, inhibits the expression of inflammatory and hemopoietic cytokines as well as its own expression. To evaluate the regulation of IL-10 production by T cells and monocytes, we measured IL-10 levels by ELISA in supernatants of PHA-stimulated PBMC following depletion of either T cells or monocytes. IL-10 production was significantly down-regulated in both T cell- and monocyte-depleted PBMC compared with undepleted PBMC, and IL-10 production could be restored by the addition of monocyte-conditioned medium (supernatant of PHA-stimulated, T cell-depleted PBMC), suggesting that IL-10 production by T cells is regulated by a monokine(s) produced by activated monocytes. To further clarify the monokine(s) responsible for IL-10 induction, we stimulated monocyte-depleted PBMC, purified CD4+, and CD8+ T cells with PHA and measured IL-10 production by ELISA and semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR following monokine(s) addition. Addition of IL-6 and IL-12 enhanced IL-10 production in monocyte-depleted PBMC in a dose-dependent and additive manner. Furthermore, anti-IL-6 and anti-IL-12 Abs neutralized the IL-10-inductive effect of monocyte-conditioned medium. Similarly, IL-12 and IL-6 induced IL-10 production by purified CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. With respect to regulation of IL-10 produced by monocytes, TNF-alpha was found to induce IL-10 production by resting as well as by LPS-stimulated purified monocytes/macrophages. Taken together, these findings suggest that IL-10 production by human T cells and monocytes is differentially regulated. IL-12 and/or IL-6 can induce the expression of IL-10 by PHA-stimulated T cells, whereas TNF-alpha induces IL-10 production by monocytes. Since IL-10 inhibits the production of IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, these results may indicate a potential mechanism of negative feedback regulation of the immune response.
Sublethal levels of oxidative stress stimulate transcriptional activation of c-jun and suppress IL-2 promoter activation in Jurkat T cells.	Sublethal levels of oxidative stress are well known to alter T cell functional responses, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. The current study examined the effects of oxidative stress on transcriptional activities mediated by c-Fos/c-Jun AP-1 and the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NF-AT). The present results show that Jurkat T cells acutely exposed to micromolar concentrations of H2O2 exhibit substantial increases in AP-1 binding activity and the expression of c-jun but not c-fos mRNA. The preferential induction of c-jun by H2O2 did not represent redox stabilization of mRNA transcripts, and oxidative signals closely resembled PHA/PMA stimulation by effectively transactivating the full length c-jun promoter via the proximal jun1 tumor promoter-responsive element (TRE)-like promoter element. Similarly, the complexes binding the consensus AP-1 TRE and jun TRE-like motifs in cells exposed to oxidative signals or PHA/PMA were indistinguishable, being composed of c-Fos, c-Jun, and JunD. However, PHA/PMA but not oxidative signals induced the coordinate activation of reporter constructs containing the AP-1-TRE, NF-AT, and IL-2 promoter regions along with IL-2 mRNA expression. Furthermore, sublethal levels of H2O2 actively suppressed the transcriptional activation of NF-AT and IL-2 reporters as well as the expression of IL-2 mRNA in cells stimulated with PHA/PMA. Gel shift analysis revealed that oxidative suppression of NF-AT represented inhibition in the early generation of NFAT complexes rather than the binding of preformed NF-AT complexes. These results suggest that oxidative signals can positively and negatively regulate T cell transcriptional events and that changes in cellular redox can uncouple AP-1 regulation of c-jun from transcriptional up-regulation of IL-2 via NF-AT.
Defective monocyte costimulation for IFN-gamma production in familial disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection: abnormal IL-12 regulation.	We have described previously a family in which several members have disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection. PBMC from affected members produced abnormally low amounts of IFN-gamma upon stimulation with PHA. Using PHA-stimulated allogeneic cocultures of highly purified monocytes and T cells from familial patients and normal subjects, we have now demonstrated that familial patient monocytes are defective in accessory cell function for IFN-gamma production. Familial patient monocytes did not inhibit IFN-gamma production by normal cells, nor did inhibition of PG synthesis restore normal IFN-gamma production by familial patient cells. Familial patient cells responded to the addition of exogenous IL-12 by increasing IFN-gamma production, while addition of exogenous anti-IL-12 had an insignificant effect on their IFN-gamma production. IL-12 was undetectable in PHA-stimulated cocultures of familial patient monocytes with familial or normal T cells. In addition, IL-12 production by adherent cells from patients and their unaffected mothers was abnormally low following stimulation with fixed Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I strain. However, normal amounts of IL-12 were detected when adherent familial patient cells were stimulated with S. aureus Cowan I strain and IFN-gamma, suggesting abnormal regulation of IL-12 production by familial monocytes. This is the first report of defective IL-12 production associated with increased susceptibility to an infectious disease, a finding that supports the critical role of this cytokine in host defense.
Additional inhibitory effects of intravenous immunoglobulins in combination with cyclosporine A on human T lymphocyte alloproliferative response in vitro.	Intravenous immunoglobulins (IvIgG) are often used in patients receiving a basic immunosuppressive therapy with CsA either for prevention of infectious complications or as an additional prophylaxis of graft versus host disease in clinical bone marrow transplantation. As far as we know, the combined in vitro immunosuppressive effects of these 2 drugs have not been investigated yet. In this study, we compared the effect of CsA, IvIgG, and CsA combined with IvIgG on the proliferative capacity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in a mixed lymphocyte culture system. The concentration-dependent inhibition of peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation in the mixed lymphocyte culture system by CsA is a well established phenomenon. By adding IvIgG to the cultures (n=20) containing CsA, we were able to show a significantly (P<0.0002) higher inhibition compared with the inhibitory capacity of CsA alone. Cyclosporine A was added to the cultures at concentrations ranging from 25 to 400 ng/ml, and IvIgG was added in 3 different fixed concentrations: 1.25, 2.5, and 5 mg/ml. These are all concentrations which one usually obtains in patients during therapy with these drugs. Even with a minimal concentration of CsA (25 ng/ml) plus IvIgG (1.25 mg/ml), we achieved a mean inhibition of 77.7 +/- 7.9%, which is in the range of the mean inhibition (84.3 +/- 4.7%) with the highest concentration of CsA (400 ng/ml tested. Our in vitro results could suggest that the additional therapy with IvIgG in patients receiving CsA might cause a CsA sparing effect. This might lead to a combined therapeutic regimen with a good immunosuppressive efficacy and minimal drug associated adverse effects.
A neutralizing epitope of the superantigen SEA has agonist activity on T cells.	We have previously shown that sequence 121-149 of the staphylococcal enterotoxin superantigen SEA plays an important role in superantigen function. A synthetic peptide of this region, SEA(121-149), blocks SEA binding to class II MHC molecules and induces interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor production in monocytes. In this study, we further emphasize the structural and functional significance of this region of SEA by showing that the SEA(121-149) peptide induces T cell proliferation in a manner similar to that of SEA. SEA(121-149) reacted with antibodies produced to SEA, and the SEA(121-149) specific antibodies neutralized SEA mitogenic activity. A tetrameric form of SEA(121-149) showed increased binding to antibodies and enhanced T cell activation, consistent with the greater avidity associated with increased valency. These data suggest that the internal domain of SEA corresponding to residues 121-149 plays an important role in superantigen activity.
Cross-reactive T-cell proliferative responses to V3 peptides corresponding to different geographical HIV-1 isolates in HIV-seropositive individuals.	We have investigated the proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) to synthetic peptides from the third variable loop region (V3) in the envelope protein gp120. We tested a total of 14 peptides, corresponding to 14 HIV-1 isolates belonging to four geographical locations (clades U, A, B, and D). Although differences in relative level of responses exist between individual peptides and patients, the proliferation in response to all 14 V3 peptides was significantly greater than that to unrelated control peptides. Additionally, we observed that proliferative responses of blood cells from the 10 HIV-seropositive individuals studied from the clade B region to peptides from within clades U, A, B, and D were not significantly different, indicating the cross-reactive nature of the V3-specific cell-mediated immune responses. Even though the majority of patients also exhibited antibody responses against several V3 peptides, serum samples from 50% of clade B patients exhibited antibody cross-reactivity, while proliferative responses to V3 peptides from more than one clade were observed in 80% of patients. Importantly, in two patients, decreased CD4+ cell numbers, an important surrogate marker of disease progression, significantly correlated with loss of V3 peptide-specific proliferative responses but not antibody responses. These results have important implications toward evaluating the utility of V3 peptides for designing therapeutic and/or vaccine reagents against HIV-1.
Synthesis and potent anti-HIV-1 activity of novel 6-benzyluracil analogues of 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl]-6-(phenylthio)thymine.	Ethyl 2-alkyl-4-aryl-3-oxobutyrates were synthesized from the corresponding arylacetonitriles and 2-bromo esters. Condensation of the butyrates with thiourea followed by treatment with chloroacetic acid afforded the 5-alkyl-6-(arylmethyl)uracils. Condensation of the uracils with acetals using trimethylsilyl triflate (TMS triflate) as a catalyst gave acyclic 5-alkyl-6-(arylmethyl)uracil derivatives. 6-Benzyl-5-ethyluracil was also condensed with methyl 5-O-(tert-butyldiphenylsilyl)-2-deoxy-3-O-(phenoxythiocarbonyl+ ++)-alpha,beta-D-erythro-pentofuranoside, followed by Barton reduction and deprotection, to give the anomers of 6-benzyl-5-ethyl-2',3'-dideoxyuridine. Alkylation of the uracils with alkyl chloromethyl sulfides gave new thio analogues of HEPT. All new N1-substituted uracils were tested for activity against HIV-1, and the thio analogues were found extremely potent.
Drug leads from the Kallawaya herbalists of Bolivia. 1. Background, rationale, protocol and anti-HIV activity.	Aqueous, organic and alcoholic extracts of over 100 samples of 60 species of Kallawaya medicinal herbs representing 30 plant families were assayed to compare their toxicity and ability to protect MT-2 T-lymphoblastoid cells from the cytopathic effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The results are reported as a therapeutic index (TI) which was > 25 for eighteen species, including seven > 50 and one > 100. The anti-HIV activity resided primarily in the aqueous rather than in the organic extracts and was concentrated in plants used in ethnomedicine to treat lung and liver diseases.
In vitro selective modulation of cellular glutathione by a humanized native milk protein isolate in normal cells and rat mammary carcinoma model.	We report the in vitro selective inhibitory activity of a humanized whey protein concentrate IMMUNOCAL on growth of mammary carcinoma cells and Jurkat T cells in comparison to normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We relate this inhibitory activity to a selective depletion of intracellular glutathione synthesis. The use of humanized whey protein concentrate as a food supplementation may have direct implication in clinical trial with adjuvant chemotherapy.
Immunomodulating activities on cellular cytotoxicity and the blast transformation of human lymphocytes by 10-[n-(phthalimido)alkyl-2-substituted-10H-phenothiazines and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-(2-substituted-10 H-phenothiazin-10-yl)alkyl-1-ureas.	Phenothiazines, 10-[n-(phthalimido)alkyl-2-substituted-10H- phenothiazines, and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-(2-substituted-10H-phenothiazin-10-yl)alkyl-1- ureas were investigated for their effects on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), natural killer (NK) cells and the blast transformation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. All of the compounds dose-dependently suppressed mitogen-stimulated T cell proliferation. In contrast, a strong enhancing effect on NK cell activity was detected mostly in the case of 1-(2-choroethyl)-3-(2-substituted-10H-phenothiazin-10-yl)alk yl-1-ureas and their related compounds. The stimulating effect directly influenced the NK cells and was demonstrated at all tested concentrations.
Expression of beta 2-microglobulin-free HLA class I alpha-chains on activated T cells requires internalization of HLA class I heterodimers.	HLA class I molecules on activated T cells are expressed as heterodimers associated with beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2-m) and also beta 2-m-free HLA class I alpha-chains. Mechanisms leading to the expression of the activation associated beta 2-m-free HLA class I alpha-chains are poorly defined, however. Upon enzymatical removal of HLA class I alpha-chains on activated T cells, re-expression is observed within minutes upon reculture, reaching half-maximal levels within 1 hr. This process is independent of de novo protein synthesis and of export of newly synthesized proteins. Inhibition of the formation of coated pits by potassium depletion of cells abrogated the re-expression of HLA class I alpha-chains, suggesting that recycling events of HLA class I heterodimers via endosomal compartments are required for the generation of monoclonal antibody LA45-reactive alpha-chains. Furthermore, the rate of alpha-chain generation seems to be governed by the amount of cell surface-expressed HLA class I heterodimers. Taken together these findings suggest that beta 2-m-free HLA class I alpha-chains are generated during the process of class I heterodimer recycling.
Heat-shock protein expression on the membrane of T cells undergoing apoptosis.	Heat-shock proteins (hsp) represent a highly conserved family of proteins, normally localized in the cytoplasm and nucleus, whose expression is induced in situations involving cell stress. This paper reports the unusual translocation of hsp to the cell membrane of T cells undergoing apoptosis. We observed that glucocorticosteroid-induced thymocyte death is associated to the surface expression of hsp 60 and hsp 70 in a discrete fraction of apoptotic cells. hsp surface expression is closely related to a thymic subset of immature CD3low/- T cells. The expression of surface hsp 60 appears early after treatment with dexamethasone (3 hr) whereas the membrane expression of hsp 70 follows different kinetics and peaks later. Morphological analysis of the hsp+ apoptotic cells suggest that this subset represents late-stage apoptotic cells at their minimal volume before fragmentation into apoptotic bodies. Membrane expression of hsp is also associated with apoptosis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from AIDS patients cultured in vitro. Altogether, we show that a discrete fraction of cells undergoing apoptosis expresses membrane hsp 60 and hsp 70, supporting the hypothesis that apoptosis causes a radical alteration in the expression of cell surface molecules. Surface hsp expressed during apoptosis may constitute a novel immune-context able to generate packages of self- and exogenous antigens, originating from degradation of altered cells.
Low-dose theophylline modulates T-lymphocyte activation in allergen-challenged asthmatics.	Theophylline has been shown by several investigators to attenuate the late asthmatic response (LAR) to inhaled allergen, suggesting that it has anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory properties. We have, therefore, undertaken a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to examine the effects of low-dose theophylline on bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and blood T-lymphocyte profile and activation in asthmatics following antigen challenge and the development of a LAR. Peripheral blood and BAL samples were obtained from 17 subjects with mild atopic asthma before and after 6 weeks of treatment with either oral theophylline or placebo. The mean serum theophylline concentration achieved was 6.6 micrograms.mL-1, which is below the currently accepted therapeutic range. Following theophylline therapy, there was a significant decrease in the number of BAL lymphocytes compared to placebo. On flow cytometric analysis of BAL cells, a significant loss of CD3+ T-lymphocytes, comprising both CD4+ and CD8+ subsets, was demonstrated. Moreover, there was a decrease in the number of BAL CD4+ T-cells expressing the activation marker very late activation antigen-1 (VLA-1), and an apparent reduction in human leucocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR). Correspondingly, this was accompanied in the blood by an elevation in the proportion of activated CD4+ T-lymphocytes, in particular those expressing HLA-DR. These findings provide further evidence that theophylline has an anti-inflammatory action in asthma.
The bacterial superantigen Staphylococcal enterotoxin B stimulates lymphocyte locomotor capacity during culture in vitro.	The bacterial superantigen Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) was investigated for its effects on lymphocyte locomotion in vitro. Culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for 24-72 hr in SEB (1-100 micrograms/ml) increased the proportion of lymphocytes in locomotor (polarized) morphology and capable of invading collagen gels, to the same extent as the established locomotor activator, anti-CD3 (alpha-CD3), though the conventional antigen, tetanus toxoid was ineffective. The cells responding to SEB were predominantly T cells. SEB had no effect on lymphocyte locomotion in short-term (45 min) assays, thus its effect is to stimulate growth-related locomotor capacity and it does not act as a chemoattractant. During culture of PBMC in SEB, the chemokines interleukin-8 (IL-8) and macrophage chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were released into the culture medium. The presence of anti-IL-8, but not of anti-MCP-1, either during culture or added to SEB culture supernatants and tested in short-term assays, inhibited the development of polarization suggesting that IL-8, which is a lymphocyte chemoattractant, also plays a key role in SEB-induced locomotor activation. Among SEB-activated lymphocytes, CD45RO+CD45RA- lymphocytes showed enhanced locomotor responses, but a relation was not found between locomotor activity and the presence of cell surface CD69.
13-cis retinoic acid inhibits growth of adult T cell leukemia cells and causes apoptosis; possible new indication for retinoid therapy.	We evaluated the effects of 13-cis retinoic acid (13-cis RA) on the growth of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from 12 patients with adult T cell leukemia (ATL). In general, 13-cis RA potently inhibited the growth of PBMC from ATL patients. However, the sensitivity of the cells to 13-cis RA-induced growth inhibition varied among the patients. The ATL patients fell into three groups (hypersensitive, sensitive and resistant to 13-cis RA) according to the percent reduction of 3H-thymidine incorporation before and after treatment with 13-cis RA. Agarose gel electrophoresis of total genomic DNA from a patient sensitive to 13-cis RA provided evidence of the DNA fragmentation indicative of apoptosis. The ability of 13-cis RA to induce apoptosis in PBMC from ATL patients suggests that retinoids may be useful in the treatment of ATL.
Tolerance and crosstolerance to the suppressive effects of cocaine and morphine on lymphocyte proliferation.	The effects of acute or daily exposure to either cocaine or morphine on lymphocyte proliferative responses and NK cytolytic activity were determined. Two hours following the IV infusion of cocaine (5 mg/kg), blood lymphocyte proliferative responses were found to be suppressed by 75%. Cocaine had no effect on proliferative responses of thymic or splenic lymphocytes or cytolytic activity of splenic NK cells following acute or 5-day repetitive dosing. Similar to the effects of cocaine, morphine (10 mg/kg) administration was also accompanied by a suppressed blood lymphocyte response, which was no longer apparent 8 days following repeated morphine injections. Animals that had received daily injections of either morphine of cocaine were also found to be resistant to the inhibitory effects of a single dose of morphine or cocaine, respectively. These data suggest repeated exposure to either morphine or cocaine results in the development of an apparent crosstolerant state to further suppression of blood lymphocyte proliferative responses by either drug.
The tetracycline derivative minocycline differentially affects cytokine production by monocytes and T lymphocytes.	Minocycline is a tetracycline derivative that has beneficial effects in noninfectious forms of arthritis and dermatitis. To investigate whether this effect may be attributed to interference with cytokine production, we studied the effect of minocycline on cytokine production by T cells and monocytes. Minocycline exerted an inhibitory effect on tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and gamma interferon production by stimulated T cells, whereas the production of interleukin 6 (IL-6) remained unaffected. The effect of minocycline on TNF-alpha mRNA synthesis by T cells was shown to be stimulus specific. T cells stimulated by a Ca2+-independent mode exhibited a decrease in TNF-alpha mRNA in the presence of minocycline, whereas the TNF-alpha mRNA level remained unaffected by minocycline when cells were stimulated in a Ca2+-dependent manner. In contrast to the effect on T cells, addition of minocycline to lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes led to a dose-dependent increase in TNF-alpha and IL-6 production which was paralleled by an enhancement of TNF-alpha mRNA synthesis. These results indicate that minocycline exerts differential effects on the regulation of cytokine production by T cells and monocytes that are partly reflected at the mRNA level. Given the pleiotropic effects of minocycline, it is suggested that the immunostimulatory effect on monocytes might counteract its beneficial properties in the treatment of several forms of chronic inflammation.
The superantigen exfoliative toxin induces cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen expression in peripheral human T lymphocytes.	Several immune-mediated dermatoses including psoriasis and atopic dermatitis can be exacerbated by bacterial infections. Superantigen producing bacteria can be isolated from skin lesions of these dermatoses. Consistent with superantigen effects, skewed T cell receptor variable gene usage has been demonstrated within these lesions. Therefore, the question arises whether superantigen induce a skin-seeking phenotype within peripheral T cells. In this study, we investigated the in vitro influence of the V beta 2-selective superantigen exfoliative toxin from Staphylococcus aureus on the expression of the cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen on peripheral T lymphocytes of healthy donors. We demonstrate that exfoliative toxin dramatically upregulates cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen expression on T cell receptor V beta 2+ lymphocytes. Up to 69% of V beta 2+ lymphocytes expressed cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen after 5 days of in vitro culture. Additionally, exfoliative toxin also increased cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen expression in CD3+ T cell receptor V beta 2- lymphocytes indicating a different effect as caused by the superantigen-T cell receptor V beta 2 interaction. Our findings suggest influence of bacterial superantigens on T lymphocyte skin homing in vivo.
Diacylglycerol and ceramide kinetics in primary cultures of activated T-lymphocytes.	T cell activation results in the generation of diacylglycerol (DAG), the physiological activator of protein kinase C. Recently, ceramide, a bioactive lipid intracellular second messenger, has been shown to play a positive role in T cell proliferation. Most studies examining mitogen induction of DAG and ceramide in T cells have been conducted in cell lines over short periods of time (0-30 min) relative to the 2-3-h time frame required for commitment to proliferation. Therefore, we examined T cell mitogen-induced DAG and ceramide kinetics under physiologically relevant conditions during the initial 2 h of culture. Freshly isolated murine splenic lymphocytes were stimulated with the T cell-specific mitogen, concanavalin A (Con A). Our results show that Con A induced a multiphasic DAG response with significant peaks in DAG mass occurring at 2, 20 and 120 min. Concomitantly, ceramide mass was significantly increased 2 min following Con A addition and remained elevated until 120 min. Addition of C8-ceramide (10 microM) to lymphocyte cultures significantly enhanced mitogen-induced proliferation. These results demonstrate that DAG is continuously produced by activated T lymphocytes in a multiphasic fashion, and that ceramide is a positive effector molecule with respect to murine T cell proliferation. These results establish a foundation for further examination of the relationship between DAG, ceramide and T cell activation.
Accessory cell requirements for T lymphocyte activation and interferon-gamma production in peripheral lymph nodes.	Allergen-activated draining lymph node cells (LNC) isolated from mice exposed topically to the contact allergen oxazolone mount vigorous proliferative responses and secrete substantial amounts of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) when cultured with the T lymphocyte mitogen concanavalin A (con A). In contrast, although naive LNC prepared from untreated mice display con A-driven proliferative responses of comparable magnitude, they produce only very low levels of IFN-gamma. Secretion of IFN-gamma by con A-stimulated naive LNC was augmented significantly by the addition to culture of a small number of syngeneic dendritic cells (DC), under conditions where there was no influence on the vigour of proliferative responses and where the exogenous DC themselves failed to produce IFN-gamma. Augmentation of IFN-gamma production was not observed when exogenous populations depleted of DC were added to culture. It is proposed that discrete aspects of the primary activation of naive T lymphocytes display differential requirements for accessory cells and that the development of IFN-gamma producing cells necessitates sufficient numbers of dendritic cells.
Reduced immunogenicity of monomethoxypolyethylene glycol-modified lysozyme for activation of T cells.	Chemical modification of proteins with monomethoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG) will reduce the immunogenicity of proteins. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of mPEG modification on the capacity of hen egg-white lysozyme (HEL) to stimulate T cells. Lymph node cells (LNCs) from mice immunized with HEL or with mPEG-HEL conjugate were cultured with these antigens, then we measured the proliferation and IL-2 production. mPEG-modification lowered the T cell activating capacity of HEL, both in vitro and in vivo. Neither toxicity, nor antigen non-specific immunosuppressive capacity was observed with mPEG-HEL and unconjugated mPEG. Suppressor cells were unlikely to be generated in the mPEG-HEL-primed LNCs. We next examined the behavior of mPEG-HEL during antigen processing. The capacity of HEL and mPEG-HEL to be incorporated by live cells was much the same. However, the susceptibility to various proteases, including endosomal/lysosomal enzymes, was significantly decreased by mPEG modification. The increased resistance of mPEG-HEL to proteolytic degradation implied that the conjugate was poorly presented to T cells. This may be an important factor related to the low immunogenicity of mPEG modified proteins.
A polysaccharide-peptide complex from cultured mycelia of the mushroom Tricholoma mongolicum with immunoenhancing and antitumor activities.	A polysaccharide-peptide complex with immunoenhancing and antitumor activities was obtained from the mycelial culture of Tricholoma mongolicum, an edible mushroom found in Northern China. The polysaccharide-peptide complex had a molecular mass of 15.5 kDa, as estimated by gel filtration, and a carbohydrate-protein ratio of about 8:1 and was not adsorbed on DEAE-Sepharose CL-6B. It possessed the activities of activating macrophages, stimulating macrophage antigen-presenting activity, which in turn enhanced proliferation of T-cells, and inhibiting the growth of sarcoma 180 cells that had been implanted in mice.
Effect of rifampin on CD1b expression and double-negative T cell responses against mycobacteria-derived glycolipid antigen.	Non-classical antigen-presentation by CD1 molecules expressed on cytokine-activated monocytes (CAM), and cell-mediated responses supported by double-negative (DN) and by CD8+ responder alphabeta T cells, are involved in host resistance against mycobacterial infections. The CD1b protein is responsible for presentation of non-peptide, lipid antigens to T cells. In this context, a pivotal role is played by induction of CD1b protein on the membrane of human monocytes activated by GM-CSF alone, and more efficiently by GM-CSF combined with IL-4. Rifampin (RFP), a drug which is extensively utilized for chemoprophylaxis or treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is known to reduce a number of B, or T cell-dependent responses. Therefore we undertook immunopharmacological studies on RFP, to determine the effects of this agent on human macrophage function, relative to antigen presentation by CD1b molecules and on DN T cell cytolytic function. The results showed that: (a) graded concentration of RFP (2 or 10 microg/ml) induced a significant increase of CD1b expression, in CAM as evaluated by FACS analysis; (b) RFP increased significantly the specific mAb binding to CD1b on CAM surface; (c) treatment of effector cells with RFP did not reduce DN T cell-mediated cytolysis against lymphoblastoid cells transfected with CD1b cDNA (C1R.b6 cells), pulsed with M. tuberculosis. These results suggest that RFP could be of potential value in improving mycobacterial antigen presentation without impairing responder T cell function.
Cytokine production by T cells infiltrating in the eye of uveitis patients.	The capacity of T cells to produce cytokines was investigated using T-cell clones (TCCs) established from infiltrating cells in the aqueous humor (AH) or peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease or sarcoidosis. The cytokines produced and tested in the study were interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-6, IL-8, interferon (IFN)-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and granulocyte monocyte colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF). All TCCs (n = 9) from AH of VKH patients spontaneously produced significantly larger amounts of IL-6, IL-8, and IFN-gamma than TCCs from healthy donor PBMC. All TCCs (n = 9) from AH of the sarcoidosis patient spontaneously produced significantly larger amounts of IL-1alpha, IL-6, and IL-8 than TCCs from healthy donor PBMC. In addition, the effects of antiinflammatory drugs on the cytokine production by the TCCs were investigated. Hydrocortisone significantly suppressed the production of IL-6, IL-8, and GM-CSF by TCCs from AH of VKH patients. Tacrolimus also significantly suppressed the production of IL-8 and GM-CSF by the TCCs. FTY720, an experimental drug, suppressed only GM-CSF production by TCCs from AH of VKH patients. Diclofenac failed to suppress the production of any cytokines by any TCCs. All tested drugs did not suppress the production of cytokines by TCCs from the sarcoidosis patient. These results thus suggest that cytokines produced by T cells infiltrating in the eye may play an important role in the pathogenesis of uveitis.
Nutritional influences on immune response in healthy aged persons.	Healthy elderly (80+/-5 years) with different nutritional status were compared to young healthy adults (25+/-5 years) to quantify the relative influences of aging and nutrition on immune response. Aged persons, without alteration of their nutritional status, had lower CD3+, CD8+, and CD45RA+ as well as higher CD2+CD3-, CD2+CD4-CD8-, and CD45RO+ T cell subsets and IL-6 release than their younger counterparts. T cell proliferation and IL-2 production were comparable in the two healthiest groups. Aged subjects with low nutritional status expressed similar but more marked changes in immune response while nutritional status did not influence the immune response in young subjects. Furthermore, lower nutritional status was associated with lower CD4+ counts and lower T cell functions in aged persons. These results indicate that the influences of aging and undernutrition in humans are cumulative and suggest that some changes in immune response that have been attributed to aging may, in fact, be related to nutrition and not aging.
Effect of age on mitogen induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation in human T cell and its subsets: down-regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of ZAP-70.	Several events of T cell activation have been reported to decline in humans with age. Since protein tyrosine phosphorylation is an early critical event of T cell activation, we performed a systematic analysis of the age-associated changes in the mitogen induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation of human T lymphocytes using SDS-PAGE and Western blotting techniques. Following stimulation with Con A and PHA, an identical pattern of protein tyrosine phosphorylation was observed in the lysates of T cells prepared from seven healthy young adults and eight healthy elderly human subjects. Five different high molecular mass proteins (75, 115, 120, 140 and 170 kDa) were consistently tyrosine phosphorylated in all of the donors from both age groups and peaked between 3 and 10 min. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the above substrates was observed in both CD4 and CD8 subsets. When compared for individual donors from both age groups, variations in the T cell response with regard to net tyrosine phosphorylation for all the substrates was observed. However, the mitogen induced level of tyrosine phosphorylation of only p75 was found to be significantly lower in unfractionated T cells as well as CD4 and CD8 subsets of older subjects than that of young subjects. Using immunoblotting, p75 was identified as ZAP-70, a member of the syk family of protein tyrosine kinases. Understanding of the biochemical basis of the reduced level of tyrosine phosphorylation of ZAP-70 will be helpful in delineating the molecular basis of age-associated impairment of T cell activation.
Expression of MUC1 mucin on activated human T cells: implications for a role of MUC1 in normal immune regulation.	MUC1 mucin is expressed by normal and malignant epithelial cells and is thought to function through cell-cell interactions and transmembrane signal transduction events. Secreted cancer-associated MUC1 is immunosuppressive and inhibits human T-cell proliferation. We report here that newly synthesized MUC1 is expressed on the surface of mitogen-activated human T cells and is also found in soluble form in the supernatants from cultures of mitogen-activated human T cells. After removal of the mitogenic stimulus from the T-cell cultures, MUC1 expression is downregulated. The addition of anti-MUC1 monoclonal antibody to mitogen-activated cultures partially inhibits the T-cell proliferative response. These data suggest that MUC1 serves an immunodulatory function for human T lymphocytes.
Importance of micronucleus tests in cultured binuclear T lymphocytes for the detection of genotoxic events in cancer patients]	The cytokinesis-blocked micronucleus assay (CBMN) is a short-term mutagenesis test which offers an easier and less tedious alternative to metaphase chromosome analysis, with the advantage that exposure to both clastogens and aneugens may be detected. The CBMN assay has been used in evaluating the genotoxic consequences of exposures to environmental and occupational mutagens and carcinogens. Micronucleated cell rates (MN cell rates) were assessed in cytokinesis-blocked lymphocytes of 70 male and female cancer patients prior to any anticancer treatment. The study of interindividual variation factors showed that only age significantly affect MN cell rate, whereas sex, tobacco, alcohol, imaging techniques and tumour stage had no significant effect. The comparison of micronucleated cell rates in 198 healthy subjects and 70 cancer patients matched for age and sex showed a statistically significant difference. Spontaneous elevated MN cell rates of cancer patients refer to previous exposition of genotoxic or mutagenic environmental agents. Moreover, the MN cell rates in cancer patients most probably refers to various cellular lesions and genetic damages.
Early and long-term effects of chronic low-dose radiation and coenzyme Q diet on the proliferation of rat spleen T cells.	Chronic whole-body irradiation (0.43 cGy/day; total doses 11, 23, and 35 cGy) caused non-monotonous long-term disturbances in rat splenic T lymphocytes proliferation. Immunosuppression observed after chronic exposure had no correlation with the splenic cell number and the decrease in the fluorescence intensity of Hoechst 33258-DNA complex in T lymphocytes. Small, but significant radioprotection was observed with Coenzyme Q diet immediately after irradiation. These results indicate that the changes in T cell immunity, T cell viability, and T cell DNA state after exposure to low dose radiation are not interrelated.
Effects of 2-deoxy-D-glucose administration on immune parameters in mice.	Physical exercise and diet alterations have been shown to affect immune parameters. Similar effects are also induced by the administration of the non-metabolizable glucose analog, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). The current study was designed to characterize the effects of glucoprivation induced by 2-DG administration on leukocyte subset distribution and function. BDF1 mice (n = 8 per group) were injected intraperitoneally one or three times with 0, 500, 750, 1000 or 1500 mg/kg of 2-DG. Two hours after the last injection of 2-DG, immunological parameters were analyzed. A dose-dependent increase in plasma glucose concentrations of mice injected once with up to 1500 mg/kg of 2-DG was observed (p < 0.001). After either one or three injections of up to 1500 mg/kg of 2-DG, corticosterone levels, leukocyte counts in the spleen, and CD3+ cells in the thymus increased. In vitro proliferation of partially purified lymphocytes from the spleen in the presence of both concanavalin-A and lipopolysaccharide decreased in a dose dependent manner (p < 0.05). In addition, after three injections, the proportion of both thymocytes and splenocytes bearing alphabeta-TCR increased as the concentration of 2-DG increased (p < 0.01). These results demonstrate that 2-DG administration induced dose-dependent changes in both thymus and spleen cell distribution and function.
Surfactant protein A inhibits T cell proliferation via its collagen-like tail and a 210-kDa receptor.	Investigation of possible mechanisms to describe the hyporesponsiveness of pulmonary leukocytes has led to the study of pulmonary surfactant and its constituents as immune suppressive agents. Pulmonary surfactant is a phospholipid-protein mixture that reduces surface tension in the lung and prevents collapse of the alveoli. The most abundant protein in this mixture is a hydrophilic molecule termed surfactant-associated protein A (SP-A). Previously, we showed that bovine (b) SP-A can inhibit human T lymphocyte proliferation and interleukin-2 production in vitro. Results presented in this investigation showed that different sources of human SP-A and bSP-A as well as recombinant rat SP-A inhibited human T lymphocyte proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. A structurally similar collagenous protein, C1q, did not block the in vitro inhibitory action of SP-A. The addition of large concentrations of mannan to SP-A-treated cultures also did not disrupt inhibition, suggesting that the effect is not mediated by the carbohydrate recognition domain of SP-A. Use of recombinant mutant SP-As revealed that a 36-amino acid Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) motif-containing span of the collagen-like domain was responsible for the inhibition of T cell proliferation. A polyclonal antiserum directed against an SP-A receptor (SP-R210) completely blocked the inhibition of T cell proliferation by SP-A. These results emphasize a potential role for SP-A in dampening lymphocyte responses to exogenous stimuli. The data also provide further support for the concept that SP-A maintains a balance between the clearance of inhaled pathogens and protection against collateral immune-mediated damage.
Suppression of alloreactivity with gamma delta T-cells: relevance to increased gamma delta T-cells following bone marrow transplantation.	Several reports have shown that an increase in T-cell receptor gamma/delta-positive T-cells (gamma delta T-cells) have been observed following bone marrow transplantation. gamma delta T-cells expanded from peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal volunteers were used to investigate the function of gamma delta T-cells in vitro. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured with synthetic ligand of gamma delta T-cells, monoethyl phosphates (MEP), for 7 days. MEP specifically expanded gamma delta T-cells. Expanded gamma delta T-cells from subject "B" were added to an A anti-B or A anti-C mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC) containing responder cells from subject "A" and irradiated stimulator cells from subjects "B" or "C". The cultures were harvested on day 6 and tested for cytotoxicity against stimulator-type Con A blasts. gamma delta T-cells from subject "B" specifically inhibit generation of allospecific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in A anti-B MLC. The results indicate that gamma delta T-cells exhibit veto-type suppression of alloreaction. If the current experiments are also applicable in vivo, gamma delta T-cells originating from the donor after bone marrow transplantation may inhibit graft rejection by suppressing recipient anti-donor reactivity. gamma delta T-cells may be involved in the suppression of allogeneic reaction in vivo following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
GABA modulates cytotoxicity of immunocompetent cells expressing GABAA receptor subunits.	C57 black mouse splenic T lymphocytes effector cells were co-cultivated with Balb/c mouse splenic cells for sensitization; P815 DBA mouse mastocytoma target cells were then added and specific T cell-dependent cytotoxicity determined. This cytotoxicity increased after gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) treatment of the sensitized effectors, but decreased after GABA treatment of the targets. These GABA effects seemed to be specific since they were partially mimicked by linear but not ramified GABA analogues. Furthermore, they were likely mediated by GABAA receptor since GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs and protein could be demonstrated in effector or target immune specific cells, suggesting that under yet to be defined circumstances, GABA may affect T cell functions.
Characterization of a peptide analog of a determinant of type II collagen that suppresses collagen-induced arthritis.	Immunization of susceptible strains of mice with type II collagen (CII) elicits an autoimmune arthritis known as collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). One analogue peptide of the immunodominant T cell determinant, A9 (CII245-270 (I260-->A, A261-->B, F263-->N)), was previously shown to induce a profound suppression of CIA when coadministered at the time of immunization with CII. In the present study, A9 peptide was administered i.p., orally, intranasally, or i.v. 2 to 4 wk following CII immunization. We found that arthritis was significantly suppressed even when A9 was administered after disease was induced. To determine the mechanism of action of A9, cytokine responses to A9 and wild-type peptide A2 by CII-sensitized spleen cells were compared. An increase in IL-4 and IL-10, but not in IFN-gamma, was found in A9 culture supernatants. Additionally, cells obtained from A9-immunized mice produced higher amounts of IL-4 and IL-10 when cultured with CII compared with cells obtained from mice immunized with A2, which produced predominantly IFN-gamma. Suppression of arthritis could be transferred to naive mice using A9-immune splenocytes. Lastly, phosphorylation of TCRzeta was not altered in the immunoprecipitates from the lysates of cells exposed to analogue peptides (A9 and A10) together with wild-type A2 in a T cell line and two I-Aq-restricted, CII-specific T hybridomas. We conclude that analogue peptide A9 is effective in suppressing established CIA by inducing T cells to produce a Th2 cytokine pattern in response to CII.
Poly(ADP-ribose) synthetase activation mediates mitochondrial injury during oxidant-induced cell death.	Reactive oxidant species are important mediators of tissue injury in shock, inflammation, and reperfusion injury. The actions of a number of these oxidants (e.g., hydroxyl radical and peroxynitrite, a reactive oxidant produced by the reaction of nitric oxide and superoxide) are mediated in part by the activation of the nuclear nick sensor enzyme, poly(ADP)-ribose synthetase (PARS), with consequent cellular energy depletion. Here we investigated whether PARS activation contributes to the mitochondrial alterations in cells exposed to oxidants. Authentic peroxynitrite (20 microM), the peroxynitrite-generating compound 3-morpholinosidnonimine, the combination of pyrogallol and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine, as well as hydrogen peroxide induced a time- and dose-dependent decrease in mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi(m)) in thymocytes, as determined by flow cytometry using the mitochondrial potential sensitive dyes DiOC6(3) and JC-1. A time- and dose-dependent increase in secondary reactive oxygen intermediate production and loss of cardiolipin, an indicator of mitochondrial membrane damage, were also observed, as measured by flow cytometry using the fluorescent dyes dihydroethidine and nonyl-acridine orange, respectively. Inhibition of PARS by 3-aminobenzamide or 5-iodo-6-amino-1,2-benzopyrone attenuated peroxynitrite-induced delta psi(m) reduction, secondary reactive oxygen intermediate generation, cardiolipin degradation, and intracellular calcium mobilization. Furthermore, thymocytes from PARS-deficient animals were protected against the peroxynitrite- and hydrogen peroxide-induced functional and ultrastructural mitochondrial alterations. In conclusion, mitochondrial perturbations during oxidant-mediated cytotoxicity are, to a significant degree, related to PARS activation rather than to direct effects of the oxidants on the mitochondria.
Low stimulation of peripheral lymphocytes, following in vitro application of Emdogain.	Fast tissue regeneration after therapeutic manipulations is a central problem of periodontology, oral surgery and trauma of the periodontal tissues, including bone. Several products, which augment tissue regeneration, have been manufactured and assayed in clinical practice with positive results. Emdogain is a recent addition in this field, as a tissue-regenerating product. The substance is a derivative of amelogenin, obtained from porcine embryonic tissues. At the present time, it is not known whether the substance can induce a local (due to the uptake of the substance) or systemic immune response. The aim of the present study was to evaluate, in vitro, the ability of Emdogain to influence, in vitro, the immune system. Peripheral blood lymphocytes, isolated for 10 healthy donors, were cultured in the presence of various concentrations of the substance, in order to determine the rate of cell proliferation, the expression of surface antigens and the production of cytokines and immunoglobulins. Under our experimental conditions, Emdogain produced a slight increase of the proliferation of lymphocytes, restricted to the CD25 (IL-2 receptor) fraction of the CD4 positive T-lymphocytes, and a concomitant decrease of CD19 positive B-lymphocytes. Other cell fractions (CD8 positive T-cells, B-cells and NK-cells) were not affected. Under our conditions too, immunoglobulin and cytokin (IL-2 and IL-6) production was not modified, even after a 3-day application of concentrations much higher than those used in clinical practice. Our data suggest that Emdogain slightly induce an immune response, restricted to the activated fraction of CD4 T-lymphocytes in vitro.
Adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation of the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) rho in resting peripheral blood human T lymphocytes results in pseudopodial extension and the inhibition of T cell activation.	Scrape loading Clostridium botulinum C3 exoenzyme into primary peripheral blood human T lymphocytes (PB T cells) efficiently adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylates and thus inactivates the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) Rho. Basal adhesion of PB T cells to the beta1 integrin substrate fibronectin (Fn) was not inhibited by inactivation of Rho, nor was upregulation of adhesion using phorbol myristate acetate (PMA; 10 ng/ml) or Mn++ (1 mM) affected. Whereas untreated PB T cells adherent to Fn remain spherical, C3-treated PB T cells extend F-actin-containing pseudopodia. Inactivation of Rho delayed the kinetics of PMA-dependent PB T cell homotypic aggregation, a process involving integrin alphaLbeta2. Although C3 treatment of PB T cells did not prevent adhesion to the beta1 integrin substrate Fn, it did inhibit beta1 integrin/CD3-mediated costimulation of proliferation. Analysis of intracellular cytokine production at the single cell level demonstrated that ADP-ribosylation of Rho inhibited beta1 integrin/ CD3 and CD28/CD3 costimulation of IL-2 production within 6 h of activation. Strikingly, IL-2 production induced by PMA and ionomycin was unaffected by C3 treatment. Thus, the GTPase Rho is a novel regulator of T lymphocyte cytoarchitecture, and functional Rho is required for very early events regulating costimulation of IL-2 production in PB T cells.
Effects of selenium supplementation on virus-induced inflammatory heart disease.	The effects of 10 wk of selenium (Se) supplementation (5 ppm) in drinking water on immune responses and resistance to a myocarditic Coxsackie virus B3 (CB3) infection were studied in female Balb/c mice. Se supplementation reduced CB3-induced mortality: at day 14 postinoculation, survival was 58% in the Se-treated group as compared to 25% in the untreated group. Whole-blood glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity was elevated by 68% (p < 0.001) and Se content in the liver by 24% (p < 0.001). Red (RBC) and white blood cell (WBC) counts, as well as the number of cells in the spleen and thymus, were unaffected. The cellular counts of T-lymphocytes (CD4+, CD8+) and natural killer (NK+) cells in the blood were not affected. However, the CD4+/CD8+ ratio (5.2) tended to increase after Se supplementation (5.9). The spleen lymphoproliferative response to T- and B-cell mitogens were increased by 9 and 43%, respectively (ns), in the Se-supplemented group. The total NK cell activity in blood and spleen showed minor increases, but when the activity in the blood was expressed per cell, the increase amounted to 35% (ns) with Se supplementation. The inflammatory and necrotic lesions in the ventricular myocardium at 7 and 14 d postinoculation were not significantly reduced by Se treatment, probably owing to the increased survival with Se even of mice with the most pronounced heart damage; comparable untreated mice were estimated to have died at day 14. Results indicate that modest doses of Se can improve immune function, which may increase the general resistance to this viral infection.
Modulation by proinflammatory cytokines of Fas/Fas ligand-mediated apoptotic cell death of synovial cells in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).	Synovial cell hyperplasia is a characteristic of patients with RA. Excessive proliferation of RA synovial cells is, in part, responsible for the synovial cell hyperplasia. In addition, synovial cell death that would reduce synovial cell number may be defective, leading to the hyperplasia. Thus, the defective control of cell death as well as cell proliferation may be of central importance in the pathogenesis of RA. In this study we analysed effects of proinflammatory cytokines on Fas/Fas ligand (FasL)-induced synovial cell apoptosis, and evaluated apoptosis-associated protein expression in the synovial cells in patients with RA. RA synovial cells expressed Fas antigen and lymphocytes infiltrating into RA synovium expressed FasL. Apoptotic synovial cells were detected within the sublining layer of RA synovium. Anti-Fas MoAb induced apoptosis of RA synovial cells in vitro, and proinflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-1beta, but not IL-6 or IL-8, inhibited the anti-Fas-induced apoptosis accompanying up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression and reduced expression of CPP32 and ICH-1L. Immunohistochemical study revealed that CPP32 and ICH-1L were expressed weakly in the RA synovial lining cells compared with osteoarthritis (OA) synovial lining cells. Thus, we found that although RA synovial cells could die via apoptosis through Fas/FasL pathway, apoptosis of synovial cells was inhibited by proinflammatory cytokines present within the synovium. Inhibition of apoptosis by the proinflammatory cytokines may contribute outgrowth of synovial cells that leads to pannus formation and the destruction of joints in patients with RA.
Herpesvirus entry mediator ligand (HVEM-L), a novel ligand for HVEM/TR2, stimulates proliferation of T cells and inhibits HT29 cell growth.	Herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM), a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor family, mediates herpesvirus entry into cells during infection. Upon overexpression, HVEM activates NF-kappaB and AP-1 through a TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF)-mediated mechanism. Using an HVEM-Fc fusion protein, we screened soluble forms of novel TNF-related proteins derived from an expressed sequence tag data base. One of these, which we designated HVEM-L, specifically bound to HVEM-Fc with an affinity of 44 nM. This association was confirmed with soluble and membrane forms of both receptor and ligand. HVEM-L mRNA is expressed in spleen, lymph nodes, macrophages, and T cells and encodes a 240-amino acid protein. A soluble, secreted form of the protein stimulates proliferation of T lymphocytes during allogeneic responses, inhibits HT-29 cell growth, and weakly stimulates NF-kappaB-dependent transcription.
Tat protein induces human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) coreceptors and promotes infection with both macrophage-tropic and T-lymphotropic HIV-1 strains.	Chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 are the primary fusion coreceptors utilized for CD4-mediated entry by macrophage (M)- and T-cell line (T)-tropic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strains, respectively. Here we demonstrate that HIV-1 Tat protein, a potent viral transactivator shown to be released as a soluble protein by infected cells, differentially induced CXCR4 and CCR5 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. CCR3, a less frequently used coreceptor for certain M-tropic strains, was also induced. CXCR4 was induced on both lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages, whereas CCR5 and CCR3 were induced on monocytes/macrophages but not on lymphocytes. The pattern of chemokine receptor induction by Tat was distinct from that by phytohemagglutinin. Moreover, Tat-induced CXCR4 and CCR5 expression was dose dependent. Monocytes/macrophages were more susceptible to Tat-mediated induction of CXCR4 and CCR5 than lymphocytes, and CCR5 was more readily induced than CXCR4. The concentrations of Tat effective in inducing CXCR4 and CCR5 expression were within the picomolar range and close to the range of extracellular Tat observed in sera from HIV-1-infected individuals. The induction of CCR5 and CXCR4 expression correlated with Tat-enhanced infectivity of M- and T-tropic viruses, respectively. Taken together, our results define a novel role for Tat in HIV-1 pathogenesis that promotes the infectivity of both M- and T-tropic HIV-1 strains in primary human leukocytes, notably in monocytes/macrophages.
Serum of healthy donors receiving granulocyte colony-stimulating factor induces T cell unresponsiveness.	The effects of serum from healthy donors receiving recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) (G-serum) on blast transformation, expression of activation-related antigens, secretion of interleukin (IL)-2, and proliferation were evaluated in allogeneic lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemagglutinin. Escalating concentrations of G-serum induced 27%, 47%, and 70% suppression of lymphocyte proliferation; interestingly, CD4+ and CD8+ cells underwent blast transformation and up regulated early (CD69) and late (CD25, HLA-DR, and CD71) activation-related antigens. Negligible fractions of apoptotic cells were found after mitogenic challenge, suggesting that the strongly diminished proliferation was not attributable to extensive activation-induced programmed cell death of responding T cells. The levels of IL-2 in cultures containing G-serum were comparable to those in cultures performed without G-serum; however, high concentrations of exogenous IL-2 restored lymphocyte mitogenesis regardless of G-serum concentration. These findings--cell enlargement, upregulation of activation-related antigens, inability to proliferate after mitogenic stimulus, and restoration of cell division by exogenous IL-2--resembled those associated with "partial activation" of lymphocytes, a fundamental control mechanism of tolerance induction in T cell clones. Soluble immunoregulatory mediators infused with allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor products collected after rhG-CSF administration could induce T cell unresponsiveness in vivo, thus preventing clonal expansion and amplification of immune responses, and could account for the unexpectedly reduced incidence and severity of graft vs. host disease compared with allogeneic marrow infusion.
The antipsoriatic agent dimethylfumarate immunomodulates T-cell cytokine secretion and inhibits cytokines of the psoriatic cytokine network.	Interactions between infiltrating T cells and keratinocytes via the secretion of the TH1 cytokines interleukin (IL) 2 and interferon gamma (INF-gamma), the keratinocyte growth factor transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) and the cytokines IL-6 and IL-8 are thought to be the predominant mechanisms inducing skin lesions in psoriatic patients. Systemic treatment of psoriasis with fumaric acid derivatives (FAEs) has been reported to be effective in the treatment of psoriasis, but the mode of action is still unknown. To clarify this phenomenon, keratinocytes from psoriatic patients as well as from healthy volunteers were mono- and cocultured with HUT 78 T cells with/without the addition of FAEs; the cytokine concentrations were then measured in the culture supernatants. Furthermore, mRNA expression was determined in epidermal growth factor (EGF) -activated keratinocytes as well as in phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-activated HUT 78 T cells. Only dimethylfumarate (DMF) diminished IL-6 and TGF-alpha secretion in the psoriatic cocultures. However, it did not have this effect on cocultures from control subjects or on monocultures. DMF suppresses EGF-induced TGF-alpha mRNA induction in psoriatic keratinocytes. DMF inhibited INF-gamma secretion in all cultures but stimulated the IL-10 secretion. This immunomodulation away from the TH1 cytokine IFN-gamma to the TH2 cytokine IL-10 was confirmed in HUT 78 T cells by Northern blot analysis. An increased number of eosinophils is a known side-effect in patients treated with this drug, suggesting a clinical relevance of this immunomodulation in vivo. This immunomodulation and the suppression of cytokines from the psoriatic cytokine network could be responsible for the beneficial effect of DMF in the treatment of a hyperproliferative and TH1 cytokine-mediated skin disease.
Modulation of antigen-specific T-cell activation in vitro by taurine chloramine.	Taurine chloramine (TauCl) is produced during inflammation by reaction of hypochlorous acid (HOCl) with taurine, the most abundant free amino acid in neutrophils. We previously reported that TauCl inhibits the generation of macrophage inflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). In this study, the activity of TauCl in modulating T-cell activation was investigated. Treatment of T cells with TauCl (0.1-0.3 mM), prior to activation, was found to inhibit interleukin-2 (IL-2) release in response to both mitogen and antigen stimulation. Similarly, pretreatment of A-20 antigen presenting cells (APCs), at low cell numbers, was found to inhibit their ability to process and present ovalbumin (OVA) to a specific T-cell hybridoma. In contrast, pretreatment of higher numbers of A-20 cells with TauCl in the presence of OVA enhanced subsequent presentation of OVA. Finally, OVA modified with TauCl was processed and presented more efficiently than native OVA. Thus, TauCl is able to modulate induction of a specific adaptive immune response at several independent points of the overall antigen-presenting pathway.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin B-induced T-cell anergy is mediated by regulatory T cells.	Naive T cells mount a vigorous proliferative response to superantigen (SAg) stimulation in vivo. The proliferative response is followed by a partial deletion of responder T cells. Part of the deletion process has recently been attributed to the action of regulatory cytotoxic T cells that recognize major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-associated antigen receptor determinants on the target cell surface. Responder T cells that survived the SAg response were found to be incapable of generating a secondary proliferative response to a SAg challenge. We show here that this 'anergy' is enforced by CD8-positive regulatory suppressive T cells. These regulatory cells inhibit cell division of preactivated T cells but not the Sag response of naive T cells. Regulatory T cells are not generated in the presence of cyclosporin A and, once activated, become inactivated or deleted when restimulated in the presence of this immunosuppressive drug.
A novel immunosuppressant, FTY720, increases the efficiency of a superantigen-induced peripheral T-cell deletion whilst inhibiting negative selection in the thymus.	A novel immunosuppressant, FTY720, was generated by chemical modification of ISP-I, an immunosuppressive compound purified from culture filtrates of Isaria sinclairii. FTY720 directly induces apoptotic cell death in lymphocytes, which is believed to be the mechanism by which this drug exerts its immunosuppressive effect. We examined the effect of FTY720 treatment on antigen-induced apoptotic cell death in peripheral T cells and thymocytes. A superantigen, staphylococcus enterotoxin B (SEB), induces T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) Vbeta-specific apoptotic cell death in mature T cells in vivo. In this well-documented experimental system, FTY720 administration significantly enhanced the efficiency of superantigen-induced T-cell deletion. We also determined that apoptotic cell death with DNA fragmentation induced in T-hybridoma cells after stimulation in vitro with anti-TCR antibodies was enhanced in the presence of non-cytolytic doses of FTY720. In sharp contrast, negative selection of T cells in the thymus, another example of antigen-induced apoptosis, was found to be inhibited by FTY720 treatment. A rescue effect was observed on clonal deletion in the H-Y-specific TCRalpha beta transgenic male thymus. In a chicken egg albumin (OVA)-specific TCRalphabeta transgenic system, OVA-induced apoptotic cell death of CD4+CD8+ thymocytes was also inhibited by FTY720 injection. Thus, FTY720 increased the susceptibility of mature T cells to TCR-mediated apoptosis but decreased that of immature thymocytes. The results in this report suggest that the potent immunosuppressive effect of FTY720 is, in part, a result of the augmentation of effects on antigen-induced apoptosis in mature T cells, and that two distinct apoptotic cell death pathways are operating in mature and immature T cells.
Monocyte-dependent stimulation of human T cells by silicon dioxide.	Mononuclear cells were isolated by Ficoll-Hypaque density gradient centrifugation from randomly selected silicone breast implant recipients for testing. Restricted antibody to HLA-DR (28-33 kD) depleted the concanavalin A mitogenic response which was expected but failed to inhibit the proliferative response to silicon dioxide. Further testing with monoclonal antibodies to HLA-DP, -DQ, and a second -DR with specificity for the NS1 region of the MHC class II genome, all markedly inhibited proliferation of T cells despite otherwise adequate stimulation by concanavalin A or silicon dioxide. Monoclonal antibodies directed against B7-1 also inhibited proliferation of T cells following stimulation with concanavalin A or silicon dioxide. These results confirm the T-cell response to silicon dioxide is monocyte-dependent and not a superantigen as has been speculated.
Pore-forming leukotoxins from Staphylococcus aureus: variability of the target cells and 2 pharmacological processes]	The staphylococcal bi-component leukotoxins constitute a family included in the super-family of the beta-sheet-structured pore-forming toxins. They may be produced by Staphylococcus aureus and by Staphylococcus intermedius and their target cells vary according to the molecules. The mode of action proceeds by the sequential binding of the class S proteins, then by that of the class F proteins at the surface of the membranes. Then, the activation of cellular calcium-channels precedes the pore formation which seems to be sensitive to several monovalent cations. The cell response is inflammatory and includes the neosynthesis as well as the secretion of leukotriene B4, interleukin -8, histamine. The injection of leukotoxins to rabbits generates cell chemotaxis , vasodilatation, and tissue necrosis. The association of the production of leukotoxins with clinical syndromes concerns several aspects of the pathology of S. aureus, and confers to these leukotoxins an important role of virulence factors.
In vitro study of the modulating effect of antitubercular agents on the rosette formation response in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis]	The wide medical application of new highly active antituberculous agents (ATA) having a definite mechanism of action on immunological homeostasis makes pharmacological regulation of immunological responses real in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of major ATA on the body's immunological responsiveness in vitro, i.e. by the changes in E-RFC used as a loading test, their immunoactive properties were examined with and without addition of ATA. The study provided a new methodological approach which may help in more effectively determining the nature of effects of the study ATA on the qualitative and quantitative parameters of the T system, in clarifying whether ATA have certain immunoregulating properties, and in quantitatively defining the magnitude of their expression. The used parameter E-RFC is an adequate test for studying the immunoactive properties of ATA acting primarily on cell immunity. Thus, this offers scope in practical medicine for goal-oriented regulation of an immune response in different tuberculosis infections by using appropriate ATA.
Effects of beta-carotene, retinal, riboflavin, alpha-tocopherol and vitamins C and K1 on sister-chromatid exchanges induced by 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2) and cyclophosphamide in human lymphocyte cultures.	The vitamins and related compounds cited in the title were investigated for their abilities to modulate sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs) induced by Trp-P-2 or cyclophosphamide (CP) in human peripheral lymphocyte cultures in the presence of an exogenous metabolizing system from rat liver. When inducer and test substances were given simultaneously, beta-carotene, retinal and alpha-tocopherol caused a dose-dependent decrease of SCE frequencies induced by Trp-P-2 and CP. Vitamin K1, however, brought about an identical effect with Trp-P-2 only, while with CP an initial decrease of SCEs was followed by a statistically significant re-increase at higher concentrations. Vitamin C was ineffective against Trp-P-2, but caused an overall increase of SCEs induced by CP. When blood cultures were preincubated with vitamins before the addition of CP or Trp-P-2, basically identical effects were observed with beta-carotene, retinal, alpha-tocopherol, vitamin K1 and vitamin C. Riboflavin decreased SCEs induced by Trp-P-2 in all treatment schedules, although statistically confirmed minima were observed in the dose-response curves, except in post-treatment experiments. On the other hand, riboflavin only reduced SCEs induced by CP when it was preincubated with lymphocytes. When vitamins were applied in a post-treatment schedule after removal of Trp-P-2 or CP, again, basically identical results against both genotoxins were observed with beta-carotene, retinal and alpha-tocopherol with vitamin K1, however, only with respect to Trp-P-2, and with vitamin C only with respect to CP. In the post-treatment schedule, vitamin K1 caused a decrease of SCE frequencies induced by CP, and vitamin C a decrease of SCEs induced by Trp-P-2.
Simulated microgravity inhibits the genetic expression of interleukin-2 and its receptor in mitogen-activated T lymphocytes.	Experiments conducted in space in the last two decades have shown that T lymphocyte activation in vitro is remarkably reduced in microgravity. The data indicate that a failure of the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor (measured as protein secreted in the supernatant) is responsible of the loss of activity. To test such hypothesis we have studied the genetic expression of interleukin-2 and of its receptor in concanavalin A-activated lymphocytes with the RT-PCR technology. Microgravity conditions were simulated in the fast rotating clinostat and in the random positioning machine. The latter is an instrument introduced recently to study gravitational effects on single cells. Our data clearly show that the expression of both IL-2 and IL-2Ralpha genes is significantly inhibited in simulated O X g. Thus full activation is prevented.
The Bcl-2 gene is differentially regulated by IL-2 and IL-4: role of the transcription factor NF-AT.	The murine TS1alphabeta T cell line expresses the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 upon IL-2 stimulation, whereas IL-4-mediated growth of this cell line proceeds in the absence of Bcl-2 expression. In addition, IL-4 stimulation inhibits Bcl-2 expression and modulates its mRNA level. IL-2-induced DNA binding activity for these transcription factors is sensitive to phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase inhibitor wortmannin and to Rho inhibitor Clostridium difficile toxin B, which inhibit IL-2-induced Bcl-2 expression. NF-AT transcription factor appears to be the most important in the control Bcl-2 expression, since inhibition of the calcium-calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, which regulates NF-AT activity, downregulates Bcl-2 expression in IL-2-stimulated cells. Constitutive expression of this phosphatase also upregulates Bcl-2 expression in IL-4-stimulated cells. In addition, a dominant negative NF-AT expression vector downregulates Bcl-2 expression in IL-2-stimulated cells. These results suggest that IL-2 induction of Bcl-2 expression may be directly or indirectly mediated by NF-AT.
Acceleration of apoptotic cell death after the cleavage of Bcl-XL protein by caspase-3-like proteases.	Interleukin-2 (IL-2)-dependent T cell clone CTLL-2 underwent apoptosis by deprivation of IL-2 from culture medium. The decrease in the anti-apoptotic Bcl-XL protein level was observed during apoptosis after IL-2 withdrawal. We found that Bcl-XL protein was cleaved to produce two 18 kDa fragments during CTLL-2 cell apoptosis. When the activation of caspases was suppressed by overexpressing human Bcl-2 protein or by the addition of caspase inhibitors, cleavage of Bcl-XL protein was suppressed in vivo. Bcl-XL protein cleavage by incubation with apoptosed CTLL-2 cell lysate was suppressed by the caspase-3/CPP32-specific tetrapeptide inhibitor in vitro. Therefore, caspase-3/CPP32-like proteases were activated and involved in the cleavage of Bcl-XL protein during CTLL-2 cell apoptosis. We found that Bcl-XL protein was cleaved by caspase-3/CPP32 at two sites in the loop domain (i.e., HLAD61/S and SSLD76/A). The transfection of the carboxy-terminal 18 kDa Bcl-XL fragment increased the sensitivity to apoptosis. These results indicate that caspase-3/CPP32-like proteases cleaved anti-apoptotic Bcl-XL protein and resulted in accelerated apoptotic cell death.
Differential induction of apoptosis in activated and resting T cells by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and its repercussion on T cell responsiveness.	TCDD is well known for its immunotoxic effects on T cells, although the exact mechanism of toxicity remains unknown. In the current study, we investigated the effect of TCDD administration on resting and activated T cells within the same animal. To this end, C57BL/6 mice were injected intraperitoneally with either TCDD (50 microg/kg body weight) or the vehicle and were injected with anti-CD3 mAbs into the rear footpads to polyclonally activate T cells in the popliteal lymph nodes (LN). Axillary LN cells harvested from the same groups of mice served as a source of resting T cells. When the LN cells were tested for their proliferative responsiveness to stimulation with anti-CD3 mAbs in vitro, the activated popliteal LN, but not the resting axillary LN cells from TCDD-treated mice exhibited a significant decrease in responsiveness when compared to the vehicle controls. Inasmuch as TCDD has been shown to induce apoptosis in thymocytes, we addressed whether TCDD triggered apoptosis in LN cells, using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated FITC-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) method. The axillary and popliteal LN cells from TCDD-treated mice failed to exhibit significant levels of apoptosis when freshly harvested. However, upon in vitro culture for 24 h with either tissue culture medium alone or with anti-CD3 mAbs, activated popliteal LN cells from TCDD-treated mice showed a significant increase in apoptosis when compared to similar cells from vehicle-treated mice. In contrast, resting axillary LN cells from TCDD-treated mice, similarly cultured in vitro, exhibited decreased levels of apoptosis when compared to the controls. Using a double-staining technique, the activated popliteal LN cells undergoing increased apoptosis in TCDD-treated animals were confirmed to be CD3+ T cells. Together, these data demonstrate that TCDD exerts differential effects on activated and resting T cells, even within the same animal, by inhibiting the proliferative responsiveness of activated, but not resting, T cells. Furthermore, this effect may be mediated by the ability of TCDD to induce increased apoptosis in activated, but not resting, T cells.
Induction of thymocyte apoptosis by Ca2+-independent protein kinase C (nPKC) activation and its regulation by calcineurin activation.	Glucocorticoids appear to participate in apoptosis of unselected CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes. Activation of Ca2+-independent novel protein kinase C (nPKC) precedes glucocorticoid-induced thymocyte apoptosis, while proper levels of Ca2+-dependent protein kinase C (cPKC) and calcineurin activities contribute to rescue thymocytes. To clarify the role of nPKC in thymocyte apoptosis, murine thymocytes were stimulated with the diterpene diester, ingenol 3, 20-dibenzoate (IDB). IDB induced selective translocation of nPKC-delta, -epsilon, and -theta and PKC-mu from the cytosolic fraction to the particulate fraction and induced morphologically typical apoptosis through de novo synthesis of macromolecules. The apoptosis was also induced by thymeleatoxin, a diterpene ester, at relatively high concentrations that induced translocation of cPKC, nPKC-theta, and PKC-mu. The IDB- or thymeleatoxin-induced death was inhibited by non-isoform-selective PKC inhibitors, but not by their structural analogs with weak PKC-inhibitory activity or the selective inhibitor of cPKC and PKC-mu, G 6976. The death was also inhibited by calcium ionophore ionomycin at concentrations within a narrow range. The range corresponded to the concentration range that contributes to the inhibition of glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis. The antiapoptotic effect was canceled by the immunosuppressant FK506 but not by rapamycin. These results indicate that activation of nPKC, especially nPKC-theta, induces apoptosis in thymocytes and that calcineurin activation regulates the apoptosis.
Effects of a novel purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitor, BCX-34, on activation and proliferation of normal human lymphoid cells.	The antiproliferative effect of BCX-34 was tested in normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) induced to proliferate with OKT3, tetanus toxoid, the mixed lymphocyte reaction, or IL-2. In the case of OKT3, tetanus toxoid, or the MLR the IC50s ranged between 0.7 and 4 microM. With IL-2, the IC50 was 14.6 microM. In T-cells purified by rosetting the IC50 with IL-2 was 0.62 microM. In CD4 or CD8 cells obtained by magnetic activated cell sorting the IC50s with IL-2 were 0.24 and 0.62 microM, respectively. BCX-34 inhibition of proliferation in human PBMCs may not depend entirely upon the accumulation of intracellular dGTP because tetanus toxoid-induced proliferation was inhibited in the absence of deoxyguanosine and was not reversed by deoxycytidine. BCX-34 did not inhibit IL-2 release from PBMCs and did not alter PBMC viability. The results of these studies show that BCX-34 is a potent inhibitor of normal human T-cell proliferation induced by antigenic or IL-2 stimulation. BCX-34 in normal human T-cells has a deoxyguanosine-independent mechanism to suppress in vitro proliferation. BCX-34 appears to have little effect on T-cell viability. The data suggest that BCX-34 may be useful in the treatment of T-cell proliferative disorders.
Differential regulation by thalidomide and dexamethasone of cytokine expression in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	Immunosuppressive drugs are used routinely to reduce the inappropriate production of cytokines in an immune response. Recent attention has focused on drugs that selectively inhibit specific cytokines. Both thalidomide and dexamethasone have been reported to exhibit immunomodulatory effects on cytokines in vitro. We wished to examine the effects of thalidomide and dexamethasone on the production of cytokines by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), following mitogenic stimulation, at the level of both secreted product and mRNA production. PBMC from healthy human volunteers were stimulated optimally with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) in the presence of varying concentrations of thalidomide and dexamethasone using dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) as the solvent. Analysis of supernatants by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed that thalidomide caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), maximally reducing production by 20 (P < 0.05) and 30% (P < 0.01), respectively, compared with controls. However, thalidomide did not affect either proliferation or the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2), interleukin 4 (IL-4) or interleukin 10 (IL-10). A slight bell shaped inhibition of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) was seen which was statistically significant (P < 0.05). In contrast, dexamethasone inhibited markedly the expression of all cytokines tested (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha) in dose-dependent fashion, reducing levels to near to background. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed that thalidomide inhibited selectively the expression of TNF-alpha and IL-6 mRNA, whereas dexamethasone inhibited mRNA levels of all cytokines examined. The data indicate that dexamethasone is a broad range immunosuppressant inhibiting all cytokines tested in a dose-dependent manner at the level of both secreted product and mRNA. Conversely, thalidomide selectively inhibits the production of IL-6 and TNF-alpha. Due to their markedly different effects on cytokine production, and the fact that both drugs act at the level of transcription, we believe they influence separate pathways involved in cytokine gene regulation.
Individual variations in lymphocyte-responses to glucocorticoids in patients with bronchial asthma: comparison of potencies for five glucocorticoids.	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are known to be effective for bronchial asthma, however, a considerable number of asthma patients fail to respond to GC despite the onset of serious side effects. Here we examined individual sensitivities to five clinically-used GCs in 40 asthma patients and 100 healthy subjects. Peripheral-blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from these subjects, and their in vitro sensitivities to hydrocortisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, dexamethasone, and betamethasone were determined with a mitogen-assay procedure. The number of PBMCs positive to IL-2 receptors (IL-2Rs) as well as soluble IL-2R (sIL-2R) levels in serum were concomitantly measured in asthma patients, and relationships between these cytokine indices and PBMC-sensitivities to GCs were also examined. Large individual variations in GC IC50s have been observed in PBMCs from asthma subjects, especially in prednisolone IC50s (ranged from 1 to 10,000 ng/ml). When compared with healthy subjects, asthma patients tend to show PBMC-resistance to prednisolone (p < 0.05). Moreover, potencies of methylprednisolone on PBMC-blastogenesis were > 10 times higher than those of prednisolone in both healthy subjects and asthmatics (p < 0.01). In asthma patients, IC50s of hydrocortisone, prednisolone and betamethasone against PBMC-blastogenesis were significantly correlated with elevated percentages of IL-2R-positive PBMCs (p < 0.05), while the IC50 of methylprednisolone showed no such correlation. sIL-2R levels did not correlate with IC50s of any of the GCs examined. Thus, the results showed that a part of asthma patients exhibited PBMC-resistance to GCs, especially to prednisolone. Methylprednisolone potency was unexpectedly higher (> 10 times) than prednisolone potency. Our results also raised the possibility that PBMC-resistance to prednisolone in asthma may correlate with an increase in IL-2R positive PBMCs.
Clomipramine and imipramine suppress clinical signs and T and B cell response to myelin proteins in experimental autoimmune neuritis in Lewis rats.	5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors of the zimeldine-type have induced polyneuropathies similar to Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) in patients with endogenous depression. Some monoamine neurotransmitters have been shown to affect immune reactions in vivo and in vitro in a concentration-dependent manner. We therefore studied the effect of the monoamine reuptake inhibitory anti-depressants, clomipramine and imipramine on specific immune response and the clinical course of experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), the animal model of GBS in humans. Clomipramine and imipramine both suppressed clinical signs of EAN induced by immunization with bovine peripheral nerve myelin (BPM), when given at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day intraperitoneally, via osmotic pumps. Clomipramine and imipramine reduced the numbers of Th1 cells secreting IFN-gamma in response to the neuritogenic myelin proteins BPM, P0 and P2 among lymph node mononuclear cells (MNC) from rats with EAN. The levels of cells secreting IgG antibodies to BPM, P2 and GM1 in lymph nodes were reduced at the height of EAN in clomipramine and imipramine treated animals. The action of clomipramine and imipramine on induced IFN-gamma and anti-myelin antibodies suggests that the mechanism for the suppressive effect of those substances on EAN symptoms may be due to an action on myelin T and B cell autoreactivity. Considering that the main common pharmacological principle of clomipramine and imipramine is to increase the functional activity of the nor-adrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) of the monoamines, it seems justified to postulate that the actions of clomipramine and imipramine demonstrated in this study to some extent involve NA and/or 5-HT. The immunomodulatory effects of clomipramine and imipramine call for further research on the potential role of drugs acting on the monoamine system in the treatment of autoimmune diseases, and for further studies of immunological mechanisms in the pathogenesis of depressive disorders.
Immunization of diabetes-prone or non-diabetes-prone mice with GAD65 does not induce diabetes or islet cell pathology.	Glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity was investigated by immunizing female BALB/c, C57B1/6, National Marine Research Institute (NMRI) and non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice once or twice with glumatic acid decarboxylase, GAD65, bovine serum albumin, or phosphate-buffered saline in incomplete Freunds adjuvant, or not treating. Mice immunized with GAD65, showed splinic T-cell reactivity to GAD 65 in vitro assessed by cytokine secretion. However untreated NOD mice did not. NOD mice showed a vigorous IFN-gamma response after one immunization, whereas NMRI mice showed a lower response. IL-4 and IL-10 were only detected after two immunizations with higher levels in BALB/c, NMRI and NOD mice, compared to C57B1/6 mice. High levels of GAD65 antibodies were detected in all mice immunized with GAD65, though lower levels were found in C57B1/6 mice. Histological analysis of pancreata revealed that no control mice, regardless of treatment, had mononuclear cell infiltration in the islets. In NOD mice, peri-insulitis was detected in all groups, but less so in GAD65 and bovine serum albumin (BSA) immunized animals. These data demonstrate that NOD mice respond more vigorously to immunization with GAD65 than non-diabetic mice strains. Furthermore, immunization with GAD65 is not sufficient to provoke onset of diabetes in NOD mice or induce islet cell pathology in non-diabetes prone mice.
Low dose poly I:C prevents diabetes in the diabetes prone BB rat.	Poly I:C, an inducer of IFN-alpha and other cytokines, has been used to study the development of diabetes in both the BioBreeding (BB) diabetes prone rat and non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse animal models of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Surprisingly, poly I:C accelerates the disease in the BB rat while inhibiting it in the NOD mouse. Since cytokines can have dose related opposing effects on immune responses, we hypothesized that the paradoxical effect of polyinosinic polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) on diabetes in the two animal models is dose related. Accordingly, we compared the incidence of diabetes and degree of insulitis in diabetes prone BB rats administered saline and poly I:C at doses (0.05 microg/g body weight and 0.1 microg/g body weight) up to 100-fold lower than doses (poly-5 microg/g) previously found to accelerate diabetes. In addition, the non-specific suppressor activity of mononuclear splenocytes from BB rats administered low dose (poly-0.05 microg/g body weight), high dose (poly-5 microg/g body weight), and saline were compared. The development of diabetes was inhibited in rats treated with each dose of poly I:C. The degree of insulitis in poly-I:C treated animals was also less severe. The total white blood cell count and proportion of RT6+ T-cells and each T-cell subset were unaltered by poly I:C. When compared to splenocytes of control animals, splenocytes from poly I:C (0.05 microg/g body weight) treated rats suppressed responder cell proliferation to concanavalin A and alloantigen. However, spleen cells from high dose poly-I:C did not suppress responder cell proliferation to alloantigen. In adoptive transfer studies, the administration of spleen cells from poly-0.05 treated rats decreased the development of diabetes in recipient BB rats. In vitro studies also demonstrated that poly-I:C inhibits the proliferative response of BB rat spleen cells to concanavalin A. The administration of poly-0.05, but not poly-5.0, decreased TNF-alpha mRNA and IL-10 mRNA content in spleen cells. We conclude that poly I:C, at a dose 100 times lower than that required to accelerate diabetes prevents the development of diabetes in BB rates by interfering with the development of insulitis. The induction of suppressor cell activity induced by low dose poly-I:C in vivo and the inhibition of T-cell responses by poly-I:C in vitro suggests that the diabetes sparing activity of poly I:C is mediated by augmented immunoregulatory cell activity. Further studies with poly I:C may be important in increasing our understanding of the pathogenesis of IDDM and provide a means to prevent it.
Altered peptide ligands of islet autoantigen Imogen 38 inhibit antigen specific T cell reactivity in human type-1 diabetes.	Type 1 diabetes, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) results from autoimmune T cell-dependent destruction of insulin producing beta-cells in the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. T cells from recent-onset IDDM patients specifically proliferate to beta cell membrane Ag enriched fractions, containing the mitochondrial 38 kD islet antigen (Imogen). Recently, we identified a peptide epitope (Imogen p55-70) that is recognized by a 38 kD-specific, Th1 clone from an IDDM patient. In animal models of autoimmune diseases, altered self peptide ligands (APL) have been used effectively in peptide-based immune prevention or therapy. No such APL, however, have been reported so far that can modulate autoreactive T-cell responses in IDDM. Here, we have designed APL of p55-70. These APL efficiently downregulate in vitro activation of the 38 kD-specific Th1 clone induced by either p55-70 or by native beta cell autoantigens. Self peptide reactive T-cell proliferation could be inhibited only when APL and the self peptide were present on the same APC. Unrelated peptides with equal HLA-DR binding affinity were not effective, excluding simple MHC competition as the mechanism for T-cell modulation. APL triggered upregulation of CD69 and CD25 expression, but not T-cell proliferation, TCR down-modulation or T-cell anergy. Thus, the p55-70 APL inhibit beta cell autoantigen-induced activation of an Imogen-reactive T-cell clone derived from an IDDM patient, by acting as partial TCR agonists that inhibit TCR down-modulation.
Stress protein-induced immunosuppression: inhibition of cellular immune effector functions following overexpression of haem oxygenase (HSP 32).	This is the first report on suppression of immune effector functions following upregulation of heat shock protein 32 (HSP 32), known as haem oxygenase (HO-1). Here we evaluated the effect of cobalt-protoporphyrin (CoPP)-induced HO-1 expression on cell-mediated immune responses. Administration of CoPP to CBA mice resulted in overexpression of HO-1 in the spleen, liver and kidneys. In vitro measurements of T cell-mediated and NK-cell-mediated cytotoxicity in spleens from CoPP-treated animals demonstrated a severe suppression of their effector functions while administration of Zn-PP or vitamin B12 had no effect. Furthermore, CoPP therapy decreased the lymphoproliferative alloresponse and differentiation of cytotoxic T cells. Inhibition of proliferation appeared to be due to cell growth arrest with an increased number of cells staying in G0/G1 phase. Despite the suppressed proliferative response, IL-2 production in the MLR was not inhibited. In contrast, CoPP decreased the production of IL-10, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha. In vivo, CoPP prolonged the survival of heterotopic heart allografts in mice. The immunosuppressive effects following CoPP-mediated upregulation of HO-1 were similar to those observed after peptide-mediated upregulation of HO-1. The results indicate that overexpression of HO results in the inhibition of several immune effector functions and thus provides an explanation for stress-induced immunosuppression.
Effect of desipramine on immunological parameters in mice, and their reversal by stress.	Immunomodulation of cell-mediated immunity is demonstrated in mice, after administration of desipramine, a noradrenaline-reuptake inhibitor, with or without exposing the mice later to an acute swimming stress. A single i.p. injection of 10 mg/kg desipramine to naive mice increased the relative weight of their spleens, the response of their splenocytes to the mitogen concavaline-A and their ability to produce IL-10, as compared to saline controls. Exposing the desipramine-treated mice to a swimming stress significantly reduced these parameters, as well as the levels of IL-2 and IFN-gamma, as compared to desipramine-treated mice. Stress alone reduced the weight of the spleen, and the ability of splenocytes to produce IFN-gamma. As desipramine and acute stress have stimulatory effect on the sympathetic system, it is suggested that a concomitant administration of the drug and a stressful event of these mice, change the splenocytes' micro-environment of sympathetic transmitters, and inhibit their function. These results may be partially due to impairment in the T-helper cell function by a beta-adrenoreceptor-dependent mechanism.
The low molecular weight Dextran 40 inhibits the adhesion of T lymphocytes to endothelial cells.	Dextrans are complex colloidal macromolecules widely used as haemorrheologic substances and anti-thrombotic agents. Here we describe a novel function of Dextran 40 by demonstrating an inhibition of T lymphocyte adhesion to endothelial cells (EC). We applied an established microassay in which constitutive and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced binding of mouse T lymphoma cells (TK-1) to mouse endothelioma (eEND.2) cells is mediated by the interaction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) on EC with their counter-receptors the LFA-1 heterodimer (CD11a/CD18) and VLA-4 on T cells. Dextran 40 in therapeutically achievable levels (2-32 mg/ml) reduced both constitutive and TNF-alpha-stimulated TK-1 adhesion to eEND.2. Selective preincubation of eEND.2 or TK-1 revealed that Dextran 40 acted exclusively on the T cells. To explore further the mechanisms by which Dextran 40 interfered with TK-1 adhesion, their LFA-1 and VLA-4 expression was analysed by FACS. The surface expression levels of neither receptor were affected by Dextran 40. However, confocal microscopy revealed that Dextran 40 interfered with the activation-dependent capping and clustering of LFA-1 and VLA-4 on the surface of TK-1. We conclude that Dextran 40 inhibits the capacity of TK-1 T cells to adhere to eEND.2 endothelial cells and thus may be useful for therapeutic intervention in diseases associated with enhanced T lymphocyte binding to microvascular endothelium.
Hydrocortisone inhibits granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor production from normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and CD3+ T cells.	Normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (MNCs), particularly T lymphocytes (T cells), are a rich source of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Glucocorticoids are known to inhibit GM-CSF production in in vitro cultures of a human fibroblast cell line and in normal human blood monocytes and alveolar macrophages. To determine whether glucocorticoids also inhibit GM-CSF production from normal human MNCs and T cells, we set up cultures of normal human MNCs and T cells in a liquid system in the presence and absence of 5, 50, and 250 microg/dL of hydrocortisone, and an hour later, a constant dose of 50-ng/mL Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or 10-microg/mL phytohemagglutinin (PHA) was added. After three days, cell counts and GM-CSF levels were determined. Administering 50- and 250-microg/dL hydrocortisone decreased lymphocyte recovery from MNC cultures with LPS (p < or = 0.01), and 250 microg/dL of hydrocortisone decreased lymphocyte recovery from MNC and T-cell cultures with PHA (p < or = 0.03). The amount of GM-CSF produced from PHA-stimulated MNCs was about 100-fold higher than that produced from LPS-stimulated MNCs. The magnitude of GM-CSFs produced in MNC and T-cell cultures stimulated by PHA was comparable (p=0.88). Administering hydrocortisone at 5, 50, and 250 pg/dL decreased GM-CSF production (p < 0.003) in LPS- or PHA-stimulated MNC cultures and in PHA-stimulated T-cell cultures. PHA (not tested with LPS)-stimulated GM-CSF messenger RNA (mRNA) expression was blocked by hydrocortisone. These results indicate that lower concentrations of hydrocortisone inhibit GM-CSF production from normal human blood MNCs and T cells entirely by inhibiting the expression of GM-CSF mRNA, and higher concentrations of hydrocortisone inhibit by a combined effect of inhibiting the expression of GM-CSF mRNA and decreasing the lymphocyte count.
Effect of the mannose-binding Artocarpus integer lectin on the cellular proliferation of murine lymphocytes.	The effect of the mannose-binding champedak (Artocarpus integer) lectin-M on the cellular proliferation of murine lymphocytes was investigated in this study. Our data demonstrated that the lectin was the main mitogenic component in the crude extract of the champedak seeds. It stimulated the proliferation of murine T cells at an optimal concentration of 2.5 microg/ml in a 3 day culture. Lectin-M appeared to be a T-cell mitogen as it does not induce significant DNA synthesis when cultured with spleen cells from the nude mouse. In the absence of T cells, the lectin was incapable of inducing resting B cells to differentiate into immunoglobulin secreting plasma cells.
Physiological analysis of stress-induced changes in the suppressor activity of mouse T-lymphocytes]	Suppressor activity of the T-lymphocytes was studied by means of evaluating the alterations in humoral immune response in the system of adoptive transfer of splenocytes from immunised donors (PFC/106 splenocytes) in mice. Administration of glucocorticoids or stress prior to the immunisation decreased the suppressor activity of the T-lymphocytes and enhanced humoral immune response. In adrenalectomised mice, absence of glucocorticoid hormones in the blood did not prevent normal development of the suppressor functions of the T-lymphocytes. Administration of Interleukin-1 prior to the stress or hydrocortisone administration normalised the T-lymphocytes' functions.
Phenotype, growth regulation and cytokine transcription in Ovine Herpesvirus-2 (OHV-2)-infected bovine T-cell lines.	The causal agent of sheep-associated malignant catarrhal fever (MCF), Ovine Herpesvirus-2 (OHV-2), can be propagated in IL-2-dependent lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from diseased cattle and deer providing a useful model for the investigation of the pathogenesis of MCF. In this study, five interleukin-2 (IL-2)-dependent cell lines were established from affected cattle to examine their growth regulation and cytokine transcription. All cell lines expressed CD2, CD5 and CD25. Three of the cell lines were CD4+ and one CD8+, whereas one cell was of mixed CD4 and CD8 phenotye. The growth of these cell lines was reduced when cultured with antibody against CD25, the IL-2 receptor alpha subunit. All cell lines showed a lack of response to Con A and their cell growth was inhibited by Cyclosporin A which is known to inhibit cytokine promoters. It was decided therefore, to examine the cell lines for the presence of mRNA of different cytokines. The results showed that the cell lines transcribed message for IFNgamma, TNFalpha, IL-4 and IL-10 whereas no mRNA for IL-2 or IL-1beta was detected. In conclusion, the OHV-2-immortalised cell lines resemble anergic T-cells which may be activated giving rise to the characteristic lesions of MCF.
Cholesterol induced variations of membrane dynamics related to the induction of apoptosis in mouse thymocytes.	To evaluate the involvement of cholesterol induced variations of membrane dynamics in mouse thymocyte apoptosis.
Clinical trials on biologics in rheumatoid arthritis.	Cytokines and T cells play a major role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Biologic targeting is a novel therapeutic approach. Published trials in humans are discussed in this paper.
Linomide suppresses chronic-relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in DA rats.	Linomide (quinoline-3-carboxamide) is a synthetic immunomodulator that suppresses several experimental autoimmune diseases. Here we report the effects of Linomide on chronic progressive and/or relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (PR-EAE), a CD4+ T cell mediated animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). PR-EAE induced in DA rats by inoculation with homogenized guinea pig spinal cord and Freund's complete adjuvant, was strongly suppressed by Linomide administered daily subcutaneously from the day of inoculation. Linomide dose-dependently delayed the interval between immunization and onset of clinical PR-EAE, reduced severity and relapse of clinical PR-EAE, and shortened clinical PR-EAE. These clinical effects were associated with the down-modulation of CNS antigen-induced T cell responses and production of proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha) as well as with upregulation of IL-4 (except in spleen MNC), IL-10 and TGF-beta in both spleen MNC and the spinal cord. These effects indicate that Linomide can suppress PR-EAE and may mediate its suppressive effects by regulation of cytokines.
Realization of the therapeutic potential of CTLA-4 blockade in low-dose chemotherapy-treated tumor-bearing mice.	CTLA-4 blockade has been shown by other investigators [D. R. Leach, et al., Science (Washington DC), 271: 1734-1736, 1996; and Y-F. Yang, et al., Cancer Res., 57: 4036-4041, 1997] to retard tumor growth in selected tumor systems. Here, we show that CTLA-4 blockade alone was ineffective in retarding tumor growth in the murine MOPC-315 tumor system. Yet, CTLA-4 blockade offered significant therapeutic benefits to MOPC-315 tumor bearers when combined with a subtherapeutic dose of the chemotherapeutic agent melphalan, which was previously shown (L. Gorelik, et al., Cancer Immunol. Immunother., 39: 117-126, 1994) to shift the cytokine profile in the tumor bearers toward type-1 cytokines. In addition, we show here that anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody enhanced antitumor cytotoxicity when the anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody was added to stimulation cultures of spleen cells from low-dose melphalan-treated MOPC-315 tumor-bearing mice but not from untreated tumor-bearing mice. These results suggest that the therapeutic benefits of CTLA-4 blockade depend on the ability of drugs such as melphalan to promote an immunogenic environment by altering the cytokine profile of tumor-specific T cells.
Glucocorticoids protect against suppression of T cell responses in a murine model of acute ethanol exposure and thermal injury by regulating IL-6.	Previous reports by this laboratory demonstrated that acute alcohol exposure combined with a 15% body surface area dorsal scald injury results in significant reductions in delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and splenocyte proliferative responses compared to either insult alone. Previous studies by this lab have also shown that these defects are mediated, in part, by increased production of interleukin-6 (IL-6). Because both alcohol exposure and thermal injury are known to modulate glucocorticoid (CORT) levels, and CORT regulates IL-6 gene expression, the relationship between circulating CORT and IL-6 production in burn + ethanol mice was examined. At 24 and 48 h post-burn, a positive correlation existed between circulating CORT levels and measurements of cellular immune function. Administration of exogenous CORT to burn + ethanol-treated mice resulted in significant restoration (to 60% of control) of DTH and splenocyte proliferative responses. This restoration was concomitant with a down-regulation of circulating and macrophage-derived IL-6. The specificity of CORT in modulating these responses was tested by assessing cellular immune function and IL-6 levels after glucocorticoid receptor blockade with RU486. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that under normal circumstances CORT protects burned mice from severe immune dysfunction, a protection that is not afforded to burn + ethanol-treated mice. Furthermore, the immune dysfunction observed in burn + ethanol mice may be due to a lack of glucocorticoid attenuation of IL-6.
Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase rescues human T lymphocytes from methylmercury-induced apoptosis.	The objective of this investigation was to determine the role of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in methylmercuric chloride (MeHgCl)-induced T-cell apoptosis. Following exposure of human T-cells to 2.5 microM MeHgCl, we observed PARP activation within 45 min. Maximal activation was observed at 90 min after MeHgCl treatment; thereafter, PARP activity declined. The loss in enzyme activity was coincidental with the cleavage of 116-kDa intact PARP protein to an 85-kDa fragment. To address the relationship between PARP activation and induction of apoptosis, we first examined the redox status of T cells treated with MeHgCl. We found that exposure of T cells to low concentrations of this toxicant resulted in decreased levels of reduced pyridine nucleotides and an increase in the relative amounts of oxidized flavoproteins. Thus, the possibility exists that activation of PARP leads to NAD+ depletion and thereby alters mitochondrial redox status. To determine if PARP activation is indeed part of the proapoptotic (destructive) response or a component of the antiapoptotic (protective) response, we employed two inhibitors: 3-aminobenzamide and nicotinamide. Pretreatment of T cells with these inhibitors protected cells from MeHgCl-induced apoptosis; this was seen as a reduction in the uptake of Hoechst 33258 and DNA fragmentation. Moreover, these inhibitors blocked MeHgCl-induced oxidative stress as evidenced by a reduction in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. These agents, however, failed to block MeHgCl-dependent decline in mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi m). We conclude that PARP activation leads to proapoptotic events that contribute to MeHgCl-induced cell death.
Multiplicity of glucocorticoid action in inhibiting allograft rejection.	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are used as immunosuppressive and antiinflammatory agents in organ transplantation and in treating autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders. GCs were shown to exert their antiproliferative effects directly through blockade of certain elements of an early membrane-associated signal transduction pathway, modulation of the expression of select adhesion molecules, and by suppression of cytokine synthesis and action. GCs may act indirectly by inducing lipocortin synthesis, which in turn, inhibits arachidonic acid release from membrane-bound stores, and also by inducing transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta expression that subsequently blocks cytokine synthesis and T cell activation. Furthermore, by preferentially inhibiting the production of Th1 cytokines, GCs may enhance Th2 cell activity and, hence, precipitate a long-lasting state of tolerance through a preferential promotion of a Th2 cytokine-secreting profile. In exerting their antiproliferative effects, GCs influence both transcriptional and posttranscriptional events by binding their cytosolic receptor (GR), which subsequently binds the promoter region of cytokine genes on select DNA sites compatible with the GCs responsible elements (GRE) motif. In addition to direct DNA binding, GCs may also directly bind to, and hence antagonize, nuclear factors required for efficient gene expression, thereby markedly reducing transcriptional rate. The pleiotrophy of the GCs action, coupled with the diverse experimental conditions employed in assessing the GCs effects, indicate that GCs may utilize more than one mechanism in inhibiting T cell activation, and warrant careful scrutiny in assigning a mechanism by which GCs exert their antiproliferative effects.
Expression of CTLA-4 molecule in peripheral blood T lymphocytes from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.	CTLA-4 is a cell surface molecule expressed on activated T cells that is suggested to deliver a negative signal for T cell activation. Since CTLA-4 might be a negative regulator of autoimmune diseases, we investigated its expression on T cells from 20 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by flow cytometric analysis and RT-PCR. We found that although CTLA-4 mRNA was readily detected in all patients and controls, only a very minor subset of T cells expressed detectable surface CTLA-4 molecules in both groups. But patients with SLE had significantly increased percentages of CTLA-4-positive T cells compared with normal controls, implying at least that there was no apparent defective expression of CTLA-4 molecule in human lupus. The kinetics of CTLA-4 expression on T cells stimulated in vitro with PMA plus ionomycin were similar in normal controls and patients with SLE. The expression of CTLA-4 molecules after stimulation increased gradually and peaked at 72 hr. However, the induction of CTLA-4 expression on patients' T cells appeared to be weaker than that of normal individuals. Whether this reflects impaired downregulation by CTLA-4 molecules in SLE patients needs to be clarified further.
Type I interferon-mediated stimulation of T cells by CpG DNA.	Immunostimulatory DNA and oligodeoxynucleotides containing unmethylated CpG motifs (CpG DNA) are strongly stimulatory for B cells and antigen-presenting cells (APCs). We report here that, as manifested by CD69 and B7-2 upregulation, CpG DNA also induces partial activation of T cells, including naive-phenotype T cells, both in vivo and in vitro. Under in vitro conditions, CpG DNA caused activation of T cells in spleen cell suspensions but failed to stimulate highly purified T cells unless these cells were supplemented with APCs. Three lines of evidence suggested that APC-dependent stimulation of T cells by CpG DNA was mediated by type I interferons (IFN-I). First, T cell activation by CpG DNA was undetectable in IFN-IR-/- mice. Second, in contrast to normal T cells, the failure of purified IFN-IR-/- T cells to respond to CpG DNA could not be overcome by adding normal IFN-IR+ APCs. Third, IFN-I (but not IFN-gamma) caused the same pattern of partial T cell activation as CpG DNA. Significantly, T cell activation by IFN-I was APC independent. Thus, CpG DNA appeared to stimulate T cells by inducing APCs to synthesize IFN-I, which then acted directly on T cells via IFN-IR. Functional studies suggested that activation of T cells by IFN-I was inhibitory. Thus, exposing normal (but not IFN-IR-/-) T cells to CpG DNA in vivo led to reduced T proliferative responses after TCR ligation in vitro.
Fertile homozygous transgenic mice expressing a functional truncated herpes simplex thymidine kinase delta TK gene.	Dividing cells expressing the Herpes simplex type 1 thymidine kinase (TK) can be killed upon ganciclovir treatment. Likewise, conditional cell knock-out can be obtained in transgenic mice expressing a TK gene placed under the control of tissue-specific regulatory sequences. Such animals provide powerful experimental systems for assessing the functional role of specific cell populations through their time-controlled ablation. However, whatever the regulatory sequences used, a leaky toxic overexpression of TK in testis renders male TK-transgenic mice sterile and prevents the generation of homozygous TK-expressing animals. To solve this problem, we designed a truncated TK variant (delta TK) not expressed in the testis. We generated transgenic mice expressing delta TK under the control of lymphocyte-specific regulatory sequences derived from the CD4 gene. The delta TK protein expressed in T-lymphocytes allowed the conditional ablation of activated T-cells in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, for one transgenic line we could generate fertile homozygous mice harboring a functional delta TK transgene. delta TK should thus dramatically facilitate the development of transgenic mice expressing a conditional suicide gene.
Involvement of Fas/Fas ligand system-mediated apoptosis in the development of concanavalin A-induced hepatitis.	Concanavalin A (Con A)-induced hepatitis is an experimental hepatitis model in which hepatic injury is caused by the action of cytokines produced by T cells. Using IFN-gamma-deficient mice, we previously demonstrated that IFN-gamma plays a central role in Con A-induced hepatitis. Here, we show that development of the disease is completely suppressed in gld/gld mice, in which Fas ligand is defective. In contrast, suppression of the disease in Ipr/Ipr mice was incomplete, since a small amount of the fas mRNA was produced in these mice. The data indicate that activation of the Fas/Fas ligand system is a necessary step in the development of Con A-induced hepatitis. Furthermore, we found that not only fas but also caspase-1 expression was reduced in IFN-gamma-deficient mice. Since caspase-1 is an integral component of Fas signal transduction, these observations suggest that IFN-gamma-induced activation of both fas and caspase-1 expression causes enhancement of hepatocyte apoptosis resulting in the development of hepatitis.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells and AP-1 are insufficient for IL-2 promoter activation: requirement for CD28 up-regulation of RE/AP.	IL-2 gene transcription in T cells requires both TCR and costimulatory signals. IL-2 promoter activation in Jurkat T cells stimulated with superantigen presented by Raji B cells requires CD28 activation. The addition of rCTLA4Ig, which blocks CD28 binding to its ligand, to the cultures decreased IL-2 promoter activation by >80%. Interestingly, CTLA4Ig did not significantly inhibit the activation of either NF of activated T cells (NFAT) or AP-1 reporters. Therefore, activation of NFAT and AP-1 is insufficient for IL-2 promoter activation. In contrast, an RE/AP reporter was blocked by CTLA4Ig by >90%. Thus, the requirement for CD28 in IL-2 promoter activation appears to be due to RE/AP and not the NFAT or AP-1 sites. In addition, these data suggest that transcriptional activation of RE/AP is not mediated by NFAT, because activation of a NFAT reporter is not affected by the addition of CTLA4Ig.
Differential effects of CD28 engagement and IL-12 on T cell activation by altered peptide ligands.	To futher our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the diverse effects of altered peptide ligands (APL) on T cell activation, we used a population of nonactivated spleen cells from mice that expressed a transgenic TCR specific for myelin basic protein Ac1-11 and peptide analogues that display either enhanced or decreased affinities for TCR/MHC to address the question whether APL-induced signaling through the TCR can regulate the capability of APC to activate T cells. We demonstrate that weak agonists APL are poor inducers of all aspects of the activation of both the responder T cells and the APC. Enhancement of the antigenic signal by augmenting the binding of the weak agonists to MHC reversed their defective activating capacity. Enhancement of costimulation by engagement of CD28 only resulted in augmentation of the capacity of the weak agonist APL to induce proliferation and IL-2/IL-3 production, but not CD40L or IL-12Rbeta2 chain expression on T cells, CD80/CD86 expression on APC, IL-12 secretion, or IFN-gamma production. Exogenous IL-12 promoted IFN-gamma production in the presence of the weak agonists. These studies demonstrate that there is a critical threshold of antigenic signal required for full activation of the T cell-APC interactions needed for the differentiation of Th1 cells. The provision of excess costimulation can overcome some of the defects in T cell activation by weak agonists, but is insufficient to induce a sufficient level of CD40L expression needed for engagement of CD40 on APC with subsequent IL-12 production and induction of IL-12Rbeta2 chain expression.
Treatment of multiple sclerosis--2. Application of a new immunological basic research is close]	Based on continuous advances in our knowledge of the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the development of multiple sclerosis and other putatively autoimmune diseases, several new immunological treatment strategies are currently being tested in different parts of the world. In principle, these strategies are designed to interfere with three steps in the presumed pathogenic immunological process: inhibition of lymphocyte recruitment to inflammatory foci in the central nervous system; blocking of antigen-specific activation; and interference with immunological effector mechanisms. Preliminary results are available for some of these treatment strategies.
Ebselen protects mice against T cell-dependent, TNF-mediated apoptotic liver injury.	The seleno-organic drug ebselen (2-phenyl-1, 2-benzoisoselenazol-3(2H)-one) has glutathione peroxidase-like activity, and inhibits lipoxygenases, oxidative burst of leukocytes, nitric oxide synthases, protein kinases and leukocyte migration. This study elaborates in vivo in mice hitherto unknown immunopharmacological properties of ebselen. The compound was comparatively investigated in two different T cell-dependent hepatic hyperinflammation models and in two alternative models of receptor-activated liver apoptosis. Mice orally pretreated with ebselen were dose-dependently protected from concanavalin A (ConA)-induced liver injury. In livers from ebselen-pretreated mice exposed to ConA, the nuclear antiapoptotic transcription factor NFkappaB was upregulated. The release of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) was downregulated, while the ciculating amount of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10) was increased. Ebselen protected also from liver injury induced by the superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin B in galactosamine (GalN)-sensitized mice. Furthermore, ebselen protected the liver and enhanced circulating IL-10 in GalN-sensitized mice treated with recombinant TNF, i.e., the common distal mediator of ConA and SEB-induced hepatotoxicity. The activation of apoptosis-executing proteases, i.e., caspases, was blocked in livers of ebselen-treated mice following TNF receptor, but not following CD95 receptor activation. We propose a novel mechanism for the immunomodulatory properties of the drug and suggest that it might be useful in the therapy of T cell-mediated inflammatory disorders.
Elevation of serum IgE level and peripheral eosinophil count during T lymphocyte-directed gene therapy for ADA deficiency: implication of Tc2-like cells after gene transduction procedure.	We have successfully carried out T-cell-directed gene therapy for a boy with severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA SCID) and unexpectedly found an elevation of serum IgE level and peripheral eosinophil count during the course. More than 90% of transduced cells cultured for 7-11 days before infusion into the patient were positive for CD8 and expressed Th2-type cytokine genes such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. Furthermore, CD4(+) T-depleted PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) from the patient synthesized IgE in vitro by stimulation with IL-4. Collectively, these results suggested that Tc2-like cells in the transduced cells have distinct immunological functions to help IgE synthesis and activate eosinophils.
Use of blast transformation test with different tuberculin dilutions to evaluate functional activity and directivity vector of T-cell activation in patients with tuberculosis during chemotherapy]	The lymphocyte blast transformation test (LBTT) with three tuberculin dilutions was used to examine 190 patients with varying pulmonary tuberculosis activity, of them 63 patients received chemotherapy. According to the blast formation in the patients' cultured peripheral blood cells by three tuberculin dilutions, a correlation was found between the clinical manifestations of the process and the functional activity of T lymphocytes. Thus, the greatest percentage (500 TU) of blasts in LBTT per mean PPD dose was detectable in patients with low LBTT results by three tuberculin dilutions with positive dynamics during chemotherapy. With further positive dynamics, the proportion of blasts in the cultured peripheral blood cells was highest per high PPD doses (5000 TU). On the contrary, patients with progressive tuberculosis displayed a oppositely directed phasic pattern.
T lymphocyte activation in myasthenic thymoma.	The functional and phenotypic characteristics of lymphocytes separated from myasthenic thymoma (Th-L) were compared with those of lymphocytes separated from non-thymomatous thymus associated with thymoma (NTh-L) of the same patients and NTh-L of myasthenia gravis (MG) patients without thymoma. We examined whether Th-L and NTh-L of MG patients reacted to interleukin-2 (IL-2) to develop lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) activity and/or cytolytic activity against K562 (natural killer (NK) activity), and the phenotypic changes in such cells during incubation. Ten MG patients with thymoma and six MG patients without thymoma, and four non-MG thymoma patients were included in this study. Th-L and NTh-L of MG patients reacted with IL-2 to develop LAK and NK activities. The LAK activity developed from Th-L was significantly higher than that from NTh-L, and the LAK activity developed from Th-L was as high as that from peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in MG patients without thymoma. The proportions of CD3+ cells, CD4+/CD8- cells, and CD4-/CD8+ cells in Th-L of MG patients increased significantly during incubation. On the other hand, the proportion of CD4+/CD8+ cells in Th-L of MG patients decreased significantly. The proportions of CD4+/CD8- cells, CD4-/CD8+ cells, and CD4+/CD8+ cells in NTh-L of MG patients with and without thymoma exhibited no change during incubation. These findings suggest that CD4+/CD8+ Th-L of MG patients may have a higher potential to react to IL-2 than NTh-L, and that the former cells might develop LAK activity like that of PBL on maturation to CD4+/CD8- cells and CD4-/CD8+ cells. Our findings also suggested that Th-L might play an important role in the pathogenesis of MG with thymoma.
Disease stage related in vitro responsiveness of peripheral blood T-lymphocytes in patients with head and neck carcinoma.	The in vitro responsiveness of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) T lymphocytes was studied in 81 patients with limited or extended head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), as judged by T, N and T + N stages. Patients included in the study were males below 80 years of age, without auto-immune disease or cachexia, who were not taking any immuno-active medication at the time of diagnosis. The patients were divided into groups according to TNM stage T0-2 vs T3-4, N0-1 vs N2-3 or T + N0-3 vs T + N4-7. When cells from patients with early and late stage, according to T, N or T + N stage, were compared, we found a decreased level of mitogen stimulated T-cells and decreased spontaneous proliferation with increasing disease stage. The same was true if the in vitro mitogenesis of T-cells was analysed separately, depending on the laryngeal or oral cavity/pharyngeal origin of the patients' tumours. If the patients were divided into two groups based on N stage, decreased gamma-interferon, and to some extent interleukin (IL-2), but not IL-4 levels, were found to be related to the disease stage.
MPK38 expression is upregulated in immature T cells activated by concanavalin A.	We have previously identified a cDNA clone from a murine teratocarcinoma PCC4 cDNA library, which we have termed MPK38 for murine protein kinase 38. MPK38 is a new member of the SNF1 serine/threonine kinase family. To understand the role of the MPK38 in thymocytes, we have investigated the level of MPK38 expression by Northern blot analysis. Interestingly, incubation of thymocytes at 37 degrees C resulted in the loss of the MPK38 transcript, however the transcript could be reinduced by treatment with Con A or PHA, but not with PMA and growth factors such as IL-2, IL-7, TGF-beta, TNF-alpha, and EGF. In addition, stimulation of mature T cells from the spleen with Con A failed to reinduce the MPK38 transcript, indicating a developmental regulation of MPK38 expression, whereas non-T cell populations significantly reinduced the transcript. These results suggest that MPK38 may play a functional role as one of the signal regulators in early T cell activation and, potentially, certain lineages of hematopoietic cell activation induced by Con A.
Upregulation of cyclin T1/CDK9 complexes during T cell activation.	Cyclin T1 has been identified recently as a regulatory subunit of CDK9 and as a component of the transcription elongation factor P-TEFb. Cyclin T1/CDK9 complexes phosphorylate the carboxy terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) in vitro. Here we report that the levels of cyclin T1 are dramatically upregulated by two independent signaling pathways triggered respectively by PMA and PHA in primary human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs). Activation of these two pathways in tandem is sufficient for PBLs to enter and progress through the cell cycle. However, the expression of cyclin T1 is not growth and/or cell cycle regulated in other cell types, indicating that regulation of cyclin T1 expression is dependent on tissue-specific signaling pathways. Upregulation of cyclin T1 in stimulated PBLs results in induction of the CTD kinase activity of the cyclin T1/CDK9 complex, which in turn correlates directly with phosphorylation of RNAP II in vivo, linking for the first time activation of the cyclin T1/ CDK9 pair with phosphorylation of RNAP II in vivo. In addition, we report here that endogenous CDK9 and cyclin T1 complexes associate with HIV-1 generated Tat in relevant cells and under physiological conditions (HIV-1 infected T cells). This, together with our results showing that HIV-1 replication in stimulated PBLs correlates with the levels of cyclin T1 protein and associated CTD kinase activity, suggests that the cyclin T1/CDK9 pair is one of the HIV-1 required host cellular cofactors generated during T cell activation.
C32-O-imidazol-2-yl-methyl ether derivatives of the immunosuppressant ascomycin with improved therapeutic potential.	A series of C32-O-aralkyl ether derivatives of the FK-506 related macrolide ascomycin have been prepared based on an earlier reported C32-O-cinnamyl ether design. In the present study, the nature of the aryl tethering group was varied in an attempt to improve oral activity. An imidazol-2-yl-methyl tether was found to be superior among those investigated and has resulted in an ascomycin analog, L-733,725, with in vivo immunosuppressive activity comparable to FK-506 but with an improved therapeutic index.
Synthesis and immunosuppressant activity of pyrazole carboxamides.	A series of novel pyrazole carboxamides is disclosed that demonstrate strong immunosuppressant activity in rodent and human mixed leukocyte response (MLR) assays (IC50 < 1 microM). The synthesis, biological activity, mode of action, and pharmacokinetic properties of this new lead series are discussed.
