Conodurine, conoduramine, and ervahanine derivatives from Tabernaemontana corymbosa.	Four bisindole alkaloids, viz., 19'(S)-hydroxyconodurine, conodurinine, 19'(S)-hydroxyconoduramine, and 19'(S)-hydroxyervahanine A, in addition to conodurine and ervahanine A, were obtained from the leaf and stem-bark extracts of Tabernaemontana corymbosa. The structures of the new alkaloids were determined using NMR and MS analysis.
Enantioselective access to isoquinuclidines by tropenone desymmetrization and homoallylic radical rearrangement: synthesis of (+)-ibogamine.	[reaction: see text]. Chiral lithium amide-induced desymmetrization of a tropenone and subsequent Bu3SnH-catalyzed nitrogen-directed homoallylic radical rearrangement constitute key steps in a new strategy to dehydroisoquinuclidines. The strategy was applied in a synthesis of (+)-ibogamine.
Indole alkaloids from Tabernaemontana australis (Muell. Arg) Miers that inhibit acetylcholinesterase enzyme.	Ten indole alkaloids from the chloroform extract of stalk of Tabernaemontana australis (Muell. Arg) Miers were tentatively identified by GC-MS, viz., coronaridine (1), voacangine (2), voacangine hydroxyindolenine (3), rupicoline (4), ibogamine (5), ibogaine (6), ibogaline (7), desethyl-voacangine (8), voachalotine (9), and affinisine (10). Of these, the first four were isolated by silica gel open column chromatography, identified by uni- and bidimensional NMR, IR, MS and showed anti-cholinesterasic activity at the same concentration as the reference compounds physostigmine and galanthamine (detection limit of 0.01mM) by TLC assay using the modified Ellman's method.
Leishmanicidal activity of a supercritical fluid fraction obtained from Tabernaemontana catharinensis.	The branches and leaves of Tabernaemontana catharinensis were extracted with supercritical fluid using a mixture of CO(2) plus ethanol (SFE), and the indole alkaloid enriched fraction (AF3) was selected for anti-Leishmania activity studies. We found that AF3 exhibits a potent effect against intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania amazonensis, a causative agent of New World cutaneous leishmaniasis. AF3 inhibits Leishmania survival in a dose-dependent manner, and reached 88% inhibition of amastigote growth at 100 microg/mL. The anti-parasite effect was independent of nitric oxide (NO), since AF3 was able to inhibit NO production induced by IFN-gamma plus LPS. In addition, AF3 inhibited TGF-beta production, which could have facilitated AF3-mediated parasite killing. The AF3 fraction obtained from SFE was nontoxic for host macrophages, as assessed by plasma membrane integrity and mitochondrial activity. We conclude that SFE is an efficient method for obtaining bioactive indole alkaloids from plant extracts. Importantly, this method preserved the alkaloid properties associated with inhibition of Leishmania growth in macrophages without toxicity to host cells.
Induction of insulin secretion by an aqueous extract of Tabernanhte iboga Baill. (Apocynaceae) in rat pancreatic islets of Langerhans.	The effect of an aqueous extract of Tabernanthe iboga (TBEt) was studied in the rat islets insulin secretion based on its use in traditional medicine for the treatment of diabetes. Rats islets were isolated by collagenase digestion. In insulin release experiments, the insulin content was determined by Enzyme-Link Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). For experiments on ⁴⁵Ca(2+) Uptake, the radioactive content was determined using a liquid scintillation analyzer. The extract (10⁻³ μg/ml-100 μg/ml) did not exert a significant increase of insulin secretion (p>0.05) in the presence of 2.8 mM of glucose (a none stimulatory concentration). Whereas, in the presence of 11.1 mM of glucose (stimulatory concentration), TBEt augmented glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in a dose-dependent manner. Interestingly, the secretory effect of the extract was glucose-dependent (5.6-16.7 mM). Furthermore, the insulinotropic effect of TBEt (1 μg/ml) was significantly potentiated (p<0.001) in K(+)-depolarised media as well as in the presence of 2.8 mM and 16.8 mM of glucose concentrations. In contrast, in the same conditions, TBEt failed to stimulate the high K(+) medium-induced insulin release. The extract significantly amplified (p<0.001 and p<0.05) the insulin secretion induced by either IBMX or tolbutamide. Diazoxide, cobalt or calcium removal inhibited the insulinotropic effect of the extract. TBEt increased glucose-induced ⁴⁵Ca(2+) uptake in rat islets. Overall, our findings suggest that Tabernanthe iboga contains water soluble insulinotropic compounds. The insulin secretion of TBEt's active principles might involve the closure of K(+)-ATP and the intensification of calcium influx through voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels.
Mosquito larvicidal, ovicidal, and repellent properties of botanical extracts against Anopheles stephensi, Aedes aegypti, and Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae).	Mosquito-borne diseases have an economic impact, including loss in commercial and labor outputs, particularly in countries with tropical and subtropical climates; however, no part of the world is free from vector-borne diseases. In mosquito control programs, botanical origin may have the potential to be used successfully as eggs, larvae, and adult. The larvicidal, ovicidal, and repellent activities of crude benzene and ethyl acetate extracts of leaf of Ervatamia coronaria and Caesalpinia pulcherrima were assayed for their toxicity against three important vector mosquitoes, viz., Anopheles stephensi, Aedes aegypti, and Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae). The larval mortality was observed after 24 h of exposure. All extracts showed moderate larvicidal effects; however, the highest larval mortality was found in benzene extract of E. coronaria against the larvae of Anopheles Stephensi, Aedes aegypti, and Culex quinquefasciatus with the LC(50) and LC(90) values were 79.08, 89.59, and 96.15 ppm and 150.47, 166.04, and 174.10 ppm, respectively. Mean percent hatchability of the ovicidal activity was observed 48 h posttreatment. The percent hatchability was inversely proportional to the concentration of extract and directly proportional to the eggs. The leaf extract of E. coronaria was found to be most effective than Caesalpinia pulcherrima against eggs/egg rafts of three vector mosquitoes. For E. coronaria, the benzene extract exerted 300, 250, and 200 ppm against Anopheles stephensi, Aedes aegypti, and Culex quinquefasciatus, respectively. The results of the repellent activity of benzene and ethyl acetate extract of E. coronaria and Caesalpinia pulcherrima plants at three different concentrations of 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/cm(2) were applied on skin of fore arm in man and exposed against adult female mosquitoes. In this observation, these two plant crude extracts gave protection against mosquito bites without any allergic reaction to the test person, and also, the repellent activity is dependent on the strength of the plant extracts. These results suggest that the leaf solvent plant extracts have the potential to be used as an ideal ecofriendly approach for the control of mosquitoes. This is the first report on the mosquito larvicidal, ovicidal, and repellent activities of the reported E. coronaria and Caesalpinia pulcherrima plants.
Chromatographic analysis and antioxidant capacity of Tabernaemontana catharinensis.	In this study we evaluated the composition of the crude extract and fractions of Tabernaemontana catharinensis (Apocynaceae) by HPLC/DAD and GC/MS. We also tested the antioxidant capacity and investigated the contents of polyphenols, flavonoids, tannins and alkaloids of T. catharinensis stem bark. The extract and fractions showed inhibition against thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS), in the following order: ethyl acetate (IC50 = 4.7 +/- 0.2 microg/mL) > dichloromethane (23.9 +/- 1.1 microg/mL) > n-butanolic (25.2 +/- 0.4 microg/mL) > crude extract (38.0 +/- 0.07 microg/mL). Moreover, the DPPH assay, presented IC50 values ranged from 5.6 +/- 0.6 to 30.3 +/- 1.3 microg/mL. Contents of total phenols, flavonoids, tannins and alkaloids of T. catharinensis followed the order: ethyl acetate > n-butanolic > dichloromethane fractions > crude extract. HPLC/DAD analyses indicated that gallic, chlorogenic and caffeic acids, and rutin, quercetin and kaempferol are components of the species. Taken together, the results suggest that T. catharinensis could be considered an effective agent in the prevention of diseases associated with oxidative stress.
