Temperature/Humidity sensitivity of sustained-release formulations containing Kollidon SR.	The effects of temperature and humidity on tablets containing Kollidon SR have been evaluated using diphenhydramine HCl as a model drug. Exposure of tablets to ICH accelerated stability condition (40 degrees C/75%RH) in an open dish resulted in rapid increases in tablet hardness, accompahied by step-wise decreases in dissolution rate. Such a change can be observed as fast as an hour upon exposure. The tablet matrix appears to rapidly absorb atmospheric moisture, as demonstrated by tablet weight gain and moisture adsorption isotherms. Exposure to 25 degrees C/60%RH similarly resulted in increases in tablet hardness, although with minimal impact on dissolution. Potential implications of such rapid moisture uptake during aqueous film-coating were further evaluated by spraying either water or an Opadry solution in a coating pan. Exposure of Kollidon SR tablets to the aqueous coating process indeed resulted in noticeable changes in both hardness and dissolution. Application of the Opadry solution appears to affect tablet behavior to a lesser degree, compared to water, most likely due to protection via formed barrier film. Attention needs to be paid to the extreme sensitivity of Kollidon SR matrix tablets to temperature and moisture during product development.
Production of enteric capsules by means of hot-melt extrusion.	The aim of this study was to develop an alternative technique for enteric coating consisting of the hot-melt extrusion of coating polymers. An enteric coating polymer (PVAP or HPMC AS), premixed with a plasticizer, was extruded into hollow cylinders. The hollow pipes were filled with a model drug and both open ends of the cylinders were closed, yielding hot-melt extruded enteric capsules. Main advantages of this new technology are the continuity of the process and its application for the formulation of moisture sensitive active ingredients. The enteric capsules showed excellent gastro-resistance, since no drug release was observed after 2 h 0.1N HCl. The influence of wall thickness (0.15, 0.3, 0.5, 0.8, and 1.0 mm) of the capsules on drug release was investigated. Enteric capsules with a wall thickness of 1.0 mm were subjected to a pH gradient dissolution method, simulating passage through the gastro-intestinal tract, in order to evaluate their suitability for ileal or colonic drug targeting. Storing the capsules for 1 month at high relative humidity (RH) (60 and 75% RH) revealed that the HPMC AS capsules were superior to the PVAP capsules. It can be concluded that hot-melt extruded capsules seem suitable as an alternative for enteric coating.
