Inhibition profiles of sodium cromoglycate and nedocromil sodium on mediator release from mast cells of human skin, lung, tonsil, adenoid and intestine.	We have studied an aspect of the functional heterogeneity of human mast cells, namely responsiveness to the inhibitory effects of sodium cromoglycate and nedocromil sodium. The effects of these drugs were examined on the release of histamine and PGD2 from mast cells of human skin, lung, tonsils, adenoids and intestine. A high concentration, 1000 microM, of sodium cromoglycate was required to significantly inhibit histamine release from lung and tonsillar mast cells. Nedocromil sodium, 1000 microM, was more effective than sodium cromoglycate against histamine release from lung, tonsillar and adenoidal cells. Both compounds showed tachyphylaxis in lung and tonsillar mast cells but not in adenoidal and intestinal mast cells. In contrast, in intestinal mast cells, the effect of nedocromil sodium was weaker and more variable than sodium cromoglycate. Skin mast cells differed from mast cells of the other anatomical sites in being unresponsive to sodium cromoglycate and nedocromil sodium. Our results confirm that high concentrations of sodium cromoglycate and nedocromil sodium are required to achieve even modest inhibition of mediator release from human mast cells under in vitro conditions. Notwithstanding this, the results also indicate that differences exist among skin, lung, tonsillar, adenoidal and intestinal mast cells with respect to their sensitivity to sodium cromoglycate and nedocromil sodium, thus extending our knowledge of functional heterogeneity within the human mast cell populations.
Prevention of infusion reactions to PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin via tachyphylaxis induction by placebo vesicles: a porcine model.	PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) has been used in cancer chemotherapy for 16 years. Clinical experience shows that it can cause mild-to-severe hypersensitivity (infusion) reactions, which are manifestations of complement (C) activation-related pseudoallergy (CARPA). Although in most cases CARPA is inconsequential, a main symptom, cardiopulmonary distress, may be life threatening in hypersensitive individuals. To date, the prevention of Doxil-induced CARPA is based on premedication and a slow infusion protocol. The present study suggests desensitization by Doxil-like empty liposomes, called placebo Doxil (Doxebo), as an alternative strategy, which is based on the tachyphylactic nature of Doxil reactions. Doxebo-induced tolerance to Doxil was shown to develop within minutes and to be specific to Doxil-like PEGylated liposomes. The procedure of desensitization involves slow, low-dose pre-infusion of Doxebo before Doxil treatment which minimizes the ensuing physiological changes or keeps them subclinical. Although the mechanism of tolerance induction is not yet clear, the effector arm of C response is unlikely to be affected, as the vascular reactivity of desensitized pigs to zymosan remains intact. Desensitization with empty vesicles represents a novel approach for reducing the risk of anaphylactic reactions to drug carrier liposomes. The underlying immediate, most likely passive silencing of an innate immune response may represent a novel mechanism of tolerance induction which may work for other reactogenic nanosystems as well.
