Proarrhythmic effects of reactive hypoglycemia.	A patient with refractory atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia is reported in whom it was possible to document that reactive hypoglycemia was the trigger for aggravation of arrhythmia. Over a period of 6 years, a series of electrophysiological studies revealed that, when the patient was in a hypoglycemic state, initiation of tachycardia was easy and most importantly that tachycardla termination by extra-stimulus pacing always failed. Furthermore, atrial fibrillation was inducible or spontaneously occurred only when the blood glucose level was reduced by IV insulin administration.
Assessment of serum flecainide trough levels in patients with tachyarrhythmia.	The reported therapeutic range for trough flecainide concentration is 200-1000 ng mL(-1). Severe adverse events, such as ventricular arrhythmias, have occurred occasionally in patients whose serum flecainide exceeded 1000 ng mL(-1). However, the lower limit remains controversial. We have evaluated blood flecainide concentrations in patients with tachyarrhythmia who received the drug to control palpitation. We measured the flecainide trough levels and incidence and frequency of palpitation of 44 outpatients receiving oral flecainide (150-300 mg daily). Mean serum flecainide trough concentrations differed significantly between patients with (n = 14) and without (n = 30) palpitation (259.5 +/- 85.2 vs 462.2 +/- 197.7 ng mL(-1), P < 0.01). The frequency of palpitation decreased as the serum flecainide concentration increased. The incidence of palpitation was 65% at serum flecainide concentrations < 300 ng mL(-1) and 11% at > or = 300 ng mL(-1). QRS values were increased significantly in patients with serum flecainide < 300 ng mL(-1) compared with > or = 300 ng mL(-1) (0.110 +/- 0.016 s vs 0.093 +/- 0.019 s, P < 0.05). We concluded that to control paroxysm in patients receiving flecainide for tachyarrhythmia serum flecainide concentrations should be maintained at > or = 300 ng mL(-1).
Catecholamine responses to histamine infusion in man.	To evaluate the effects of histamine-induced hypotension on plasma catecholamine levels, eight normal men, aged 20 to 40 years, were infused with incremental doses of histamine starting at 0.2 microgram/kg/min at a 30 degree tilt position with monitoring of blood pressure (BP) and heart rate. Histamine dosage was increased every 5 minutes by 0.1 to 0.2 microgram/kg/min until mean BP fell greater than 15 mm Hg or a dosage of 1.6 micrograms/kg/min was reached. Plasma catecholamine samples were taken between the fourth and fifth minute of each histamine dosage. Identical measurements were made during nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in these subjects. Histamine produced threefold greater increases in heart rate and plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels than did nitroglycerin for comparable decreases in BP. Although NE levels increased twofold to fivefold from baseline with histamine infusion, epinephrine levels increased minimally at the highest doses or not at all. Our data demonstrate that histamine selectively releases NE from adrenergic nerve terminals without significant adrenal catecholamine release. We suggest that neural NE release plays an important role in the cardiac effects of histamine.
Comparison of disposition values obtained by two assay methods for quinidine gluconate in patients with ventricular tachycardia.	Eight patients with previously untreated ventricular tachycardia, age 48.54 +/- 28.02 years (mean +/- SD), were enrolled in a protocol evaluating the disposition of quinidine gluconate as determined by two assay methods. Patients received two infusions of 5 mg/kg over 30 minutes separated by 20-30 (24.9 +/- 4.0) minutes of electrophysiologic testing. Blood samples were obtained at 0.17 hours and just prior to the second infusion, and then at 0.17, 0.25, 0.33, 1.0, 6.0, 12.0, and 24.0 hours after the second infusion. Paired serum samples were assayed for quinidine concentrations by fluorescence polarization immunoassay and high-performance liquid chromatography. The two assays compared well, with a linear regression equation of Y = 0.927X + 0.247 with a correlation coefficient of 0.985. With the exception of the beta elimination rate constant and beta distribution volume, t test comparison of disposition values demonstrated no significant difference. Differences in the estimates of the beta elimination rate constant reflected differences in the two methods and indicated that even though both assays were comparable, subtle differences in specificity could be reflected in significant differences in this variable.
Thyrotropin hyperresponsiveness to TRH despite hyperthyroxinemia in amiodarone-treated subjects.	Pituitary responsiveness to TRH was assessed prospectively over 24 weeks, in 15 patients receiving 300 mg amiodarone a day. All developed significant hyperthyroxinemia (both total and free), and marked elevations in reverse T3 compared to pretreatment levels. Although basal TSH levels were unchanged in all of them, TSH increased by greater than 50% when compared to pretreatment responses, in eight patients, while they remained unchanged (+/- 15%) in the remaining seven. All eight with exaggerated responses also showed significant reductions (P less than .001) in plasma levels of total and free T3, whereas in the seven who did not show any increase in TSH responses, T3 levels were unchanged. The increase in TSH response to TRH was strongly correlated (r = -.82, P less than .001) with T3 levels. Total and free T4 levels were equally elevated in both groups. These observations indicate that amiodarone effectively blocks the suppressive effect of hyperthyroxinemia on TSH secretion, and that T3 is the mediator of thyroid feedback control in amiodarone treated patients.
Antagonism of quinidine's electrophysiologic effects by epinephrine in patients with ventricular tachycardia.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether pharmacologically induced elevations in the plasma epinephrine concentration within reported physiologic limits alter the response to quinidine during electropharmacologic testing. Twenty-one patients with coronary artery disease and a history of unimorphic ventricular tachycardia were found to have inducible sustained unimorphic ventricular tachycardia that was suppressed by treatment with oral quinidine gluconate. Epinephrine was then infused at a rate of either 25 or 50 ng/kg per min and testing was repeated. These infusion rates of epinephrine were previously demonstrated to result in elevations of the plasma epinephrine concentration in the range of concentrations that occur during a variety of stresses. Quinidine significantly lengthened the ventricular refractory periods and the QRS duration at a ventricular pacing cycle length of 350 ms, which was used as an index of intraventricular conduction. Epinephrine partially or completely reversed the effects of quinidine on ventricular refractory periods, but had no effect on QRS duration. During electropharmacologic testing of quinidine, no ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 12 patients, and only nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, 8 to 48 beats in duration, was inducible in 9 patients. Retesting during infusion of epinephrine demonstrated inducible sustained unimorphic ventricular tachycardia in 2 of the 12 patients in whom quinidine had completely suppressed the induction of ventricular tachycardia and in 8 of the 9 patients in whom only nonsustained ventricular tachycardia had been inducible during testing of quinidine. In conclusion, physiologic elevations in the plasma epinephrine concentration may reverse quinidine-induced prolongation of ventricular refractoriness but not intraventricular conduction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Disopyramide-induced ventricular tachycardia.	A patient with ischemic cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure was treated with disopyramide phosphate for ventricular arrhythmias. The development of ventricular tachycardia was associated with elevated plasma disopyramide levels and prolongation of the QRS and QT intervals, suggesting a disopyramide-induced depression of ventricular conduction and a prolongation of recovery. Thus, in patients with congestive heart failure, as well as in patients with renal and/or hepatic dysfunction, special care must be exercised with respect to the use of disopyramide.
Pharmacokinetic significance of serum reverse T3 levels during amiodarone treatment: a potential method for monitoring chronic drug therapy.	We studied the antiarrhythmic effects of amiodarone, 600-1400 mg/day, in 18 patients with refractory arrhythmias, and related to drug efficacy and side effects to serum levels of T4, reverse T3 (rT3) and the QTc interval. In the 11 patients with ventricular arrhythmias, premature complexes were reduced by 90-98%, and complex ectopy and runs of ventricular tachycardia were abolished; in the seven patients with paroxysmal atrial flutter, there were no recurrences on stable drug therapy. The QTc lengthened by 11.6% (p less than 0.01), T4 increased by 31.6-63.3% (p less than 0.001) and rT3 increased by 82.9-176.8% (p less than 0.001) as a function of dose and duration of amiodarone therapy. A close correlation was found between rT3 (normal up to 50 ng/dl) and drug efficacy and some of the drug side effects; arrhythmia suppression occurred at levels of 55-100 ng/dl, and some of the known side effects at levels of 100-110 ng/dl. When amiodarone was stopped in nine patients, the changes in QTc, T4 and rT3 regressed toward normal and arrhythmia recurred in eight 2-20 weeks (mean 7.4 weeks) and when rT3 levels fell below 55 ng/dl; arrhythmia resuppression was achieved 3-28 days (mean 11 days) after resumption of amiodarone therapy. The indirect therapeutic half-life of amiodarone in seven patients, computed from the semilogarithmic plots of plasma rT3 after cessation of amiodarone therapy, ranged from 25 to 55 days (mean 35 days). The data suggest that rT3 levels may be useful in monitoring the efficacy and certain side effects of amiodarone.
Treatment of orthostatic tachycardia with erythropoietin.	To determine whether increasing red blood cell volume with erythropoietin reverses the hemodynamic response to standing in patients with orthostatic tachycardia.
High-dose propranolol therapy in the management of supraventricular tachycardia.	Five patients, age 3 weeks to 11 years, presented with supraventricular tachycardia that remained uncontrolled following adequate digitalization. Four of these patients underwent invasive electrophysiologic studies to determine the mechanism of the arrhythmias. Of these four patients, three had concealed Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, and one patient had evidence of dual A-V nodal pathways. Propranolol was added to the medical treatment and was administered orally in doses ranging from 7 to 14 mg/kg/day (average 9 mg/kg/day). All five children remain free of their tachycardia except for one patient who occasionally has supraventricular tachycardia with febrile illnesses. No adverse reactions to these high doses of propranolol were encountered.
