Inappropriate implantable defibrillator discharge caused by a retained pacemaker lead fragment.	Inappropriate discharge is still a major issue of implantable cardioverter defibrillator therapy. The diagnostic options of modern devices facilitate classification of the underlying abnormality.
Anesthetic management for cardioverter defibrillator implantation in a patient with preoperatively undiagnosed myotonic dystrophy]	We unexpectedly anesthetized a 31-year-old male with mild myotonic dystrophy (MD) that had not been diagnosed preoperatively, for implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implantation. Although MD is an uncommon disorder, cardiac conduction abnormalities and dilated cardiomyopathy are seen commonly in these patients. Therefore, chances of ICD implantation may increase in MD patients. But, the patients are often unaware of this disease and it is common for them to conceal their symptoms, and the diagnosis may not be made before the operation. We emphasize that preoperative assessment is important and that it is necessary to consider MD in patients for ICD implantation.
Prospective randomized comparison of 65%/65% versus 42%/42% tilt biphasic waveform on defibrillation thresholds in humans.	The waveform tilt of biphasic shocks yielding the lowest defibrillation threshold (DFT) is not well defined. Some evidence indicates that tilts less than 65% may improve DFTs.
Treatment with implantable defibrillator]	About 20 years ago the first patient received an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), and since then the number of implants have increased dramatically. The ICD can terminate ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Studies of secondary prophylaxis show that ICD treatment can improve the prognosis of patients who have survived cardiac arrest. Prophylactic ICD treatment in patients who have not had cardiac arrest is only recommended for selected groups. Patients with poor left ventricular function seem to benefit the most and ongoing trials should elucidate the possible benefit from prophylactic ICD treatment in heart failure patients. The purpose of this article is to describe the development in ICD treatment and give a survey of the present indications for ICD treatment.
Psychophysiologic and affective parameters associated with pain intensity of cardiac cardioverter defibrillator shock discharges.	Pain caused by intracardiac shock discharge of an implanted cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is an important clinical issue in the treatment of ICD patients. The present study aimed to examine whether the strength of perceived shock pain is influenced by affective and psychophysiologic parameters.
Fungal infection of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators: case series of five patients managed over 22 years.	With the increasing use of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), device complications are becoming more common. Fungal-related ICD infections have rarely been reported, and little is known about the presentation, prevalence, and treatment options for these morbid infections.
Implantation of a biventricular implantable cardioverter defibrillator via the femoral vein.	Permanent pacing with access gained via the femoral vein has been described since 1980. Here we describe implantation of a biventricular implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in a case where normal implantation using thoracic venous access was not possible due to anatomical anomalies. The advantages of this technique over epicardial pacing in such a case are discussed, as are the practical difficulties involved when applying this technique to the implantation of a biventricular ICD.
Defibrillator availability on rotor-wing critical care transports.	Defibrillation is a time-critical and life-saving intervention for patients in ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. The preparation of rotor-wing critical care transport teams to manage such arrhythmias out of the transport vehicle is unclear.
Development of arrhythmia diagnosis algorithm for effective control of antitachycardia pacing and high energy shock of ICD.	In this paper, we propose a modified arrhythmia diagnosis and therapy control algorithm based on VENTAK PRIZM 2 algorithm of the Guidant corp. Existing arrhythmia detection and therapy control algorithms control arrhythmia through two steps. First step is event detection using peak-to-peak interval detection, and the second step is duration detection. We modify these stages to improve diagnosis time delay and treatment efficiency.
The future of implantable defibrillator and cardiac resynchronization therapy trials.	Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) trials were initially limited to survivors of sudden death. The focus of defibrillator trials in the last decade has been in prophylactic implantation of the device in high risk populations for the prevention of sudden cardiac death. It is the contention in this review that the new focus for implantable defibrillator trials in 2008 and beyond will be on more selective and focused use of this therapy. This could be achieved by selecting ICD patients based on their pathophysiologic and genetic risk. Increasing effort will also be placed on using the device for prevention of spontaneous malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias and the index clinical sudden death event. Finally, implantable defibrillators will be used in combination in a "hybrid" therapy approach. ICDs will be increasingly combined either with ventricular tachycardia ablation or ventricular fibrillation ablation using catheter techniques. With the addition of cardiac resynchronization therapy in these devices, new clinical trials that use cardiac resynchronization therapy as an early intervention in specific high risk heart failure populations and refinement of the CRT technique to improved optimal results are in progress. Finally, combining ICD devices and regenerative medicine approaches to myocardial replacement therapy are being explored.
Continuous positive airway pressure treatment in addition to optimal medical therapy for ventricular ectopy in a patient with heart failure and sleep-related breathing disorder.	In this report we describe the case of a 56-year-old man with a medical history of onset of asthenia, palpitations and dyspnoea for mild efforts. After a negative ergometric test for myocardial ischaemia and 24-h Holter monitoring showing frequent ventricular premature beats, but an echocardiogram with significant dilation and dysfunction of the left ventricle, coronary angiography was performed and did not show haemodynamically significant stenosis. Regarding the anamnesis of snoring, daytime sleepiness and the relationship between sleep-related breathing disorder and cardiovascular disease, we performed a cardiorespiratory sleep study that indicated a diagnosis of sleep-related breathing disorder with prevalent obstructive apnoea. In addition to optimal medical therapy for cardiovascular disease, the patient began therapy with continuous positive airway pressure during the night. This showed a considerable decrease in ventricular premature beats (VPBs) during the night, a better control of ventricular ectopy during the day and a better compliance with medical therapy. 
Targeted temperature management in critical care : current 2011 recommendations]	Since October 2011 new guidelines exist for temperature management in critical care. According to the guidelines the term targeted temperature management (TTM) should replace the term therapeutic hypothermia. There is now a strong recommendation for TTM using 32-34°C as the preferred treatment for out-of-hospital adult cardiac arrest with a first registered electrocardiography rhythm of ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia and still unconscious after restoration of spontaneous circulation. A TTM of 32.5-35.5°C is also recommended for the treatment of term newborns who sustain asphyxia and exhibit acidosis and/or encephalopathy.
Research on automatic external defibrillator based on DSP]	Electrical defibrillation is the most effective way to treat the ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF). An automatic external defibrillator based on DSP is introduced in this paper. The whole design consists of the signal collection module, the microprocessor controlingl module, the display module, the defibrillation module and the automatic recognition algorithm for VF and non VF, etc. This automatic external defibrillator has achieved goals such as ECG signal real-time acquisition, ECG wave synchronous display, data delivering to U disk and automatic defibrillate when shockable rhythm appears, etc.
Terminating ventricular tachyarrhythmias using far-field low-voltage stimuli: mechanisms and delivery protocols.	Low-voltage termination of ventricular tachycardia (VT) and atrial fibrillation has shown promising results; however, the mechanisms and full range of applications remain unexplored.
Patients treated with catheter ablation for ventricular tachycardia after an ICD shock have lower long-term rates of death and heart failure hospitalization than do patients treated with medical management only.	Ventricular arrhythmias in patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) adversely affect outcomes. Antiarrhythmic approaches to ventricular tachycardia (VT) have variable efficacy and may increase risk of ventricular arrhythmias, worsening cardiomyopathy, and death. Comparatively, VT ablation is an alternative approach that may favorably affect outcomes.
The subcutaneous defibrillator: a review of the literature.	The recently commercially available subcutaneous implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (S-ICD) uses a completely subcutaneous electrode configuration to treat potentially lethal ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Clinical trials have proven its effectiveness in detecting and treating ventricular fibrillation and tachycardia. The S-ICD offers the advantage of eliminating the need for intravenous and intracardiac leads and their associated risks and shortcomings. However, its major disadvantage is its inability to provide bradycardia rate support and antitachycardia pacing to terminate ventricular tachycardia. This paper discusses the S-ICD clinical trials and advantages and disadvantages of this novel technology to help the physician identify its role and select candidate patients who will benefit from this device.
Effect of biphasic waveform pulse on endocardial defibrillation efficacy in humans.	Several clinical studies have proved increased defibrillation efficacy for implantable cardioverter defibrillators with biphasic pulse waveforms compared to monophasic pulse waveforms. This difference in defibrillation efficacy depends on the type of defibrillation lead system used. The influence of biphasic defibrillation pulse waveforms on the defibrillation efficacy of purely endocardial defibrillation lead systems has not yet been sufficiently examined, we, therefore studied 30 consecutive patients with drug refractory ventricular tachyarrhythmias during the implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator. After implanting an endocardial "integrated" sensing/defibrillation lead we performed a prospective randomized comparison of the defibrillation efficacy of monophasic and biphasic defibrillation waveform pulses. For endocardial defibrillation with the biphasic waveform the mean defibrillation threshold was 12.5 +/- 4.9 joules and for the monophasic waveform 22.2 +/- 5.6 joules (P < 0.0001). There was a decrease in the required defibrillation energy of biphasic defibrillation in 29/30 patients. Thus considering purely endocardial defibrillation a statistically significant and clinically relevant increase in defibrillation efficacy can be demonstrated for biphasic defibrillation waveform pulses.
Programmed ventricular stimulation using tandem versus simple sequential protocols.	The objective was to determine whether two commonly used ventricular stimulation protocols, one more complex than the other, produced concordant results. If such were the case, the simpler protocol would streamline activities in clinical electrophysiology laboratories.
A prospective randomized evaluation of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator size on unipolar defibrillation system efficacy.	The active can unipolar implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) has been shown to defibrillate efficiently, but its current 80-cc size limits use in the pectoral position in many patients. Decreasing can size will facilitate pectoral insertion and will soon be feasible as an inevitable consequence of technological advancements. However, decreasing the can size has the potential to compromise unipolar defibrillation efficacy. It is the purpose of this study, therefore, to prospectively and randomly compare unipolar defibrillation efficacy with 80-cc, 60-cc, and 40-cc can sizes in patients immediately before ICD surgery in anticipation of advances in technology that will make smaller ICDs possible.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator patch erosion presenting as hemoptysis.	Although the internal cardioverter defibrillator has prevented many premature deaths from lethal ventricular arrhythmias, some complications have occurred with its use. We present a patient who developed a fistula between the left ventricle and a bronchus, caused by erosion of the ventricular patch. The patient's presenting symptom was hemoptysis. Physicians caring for patients with these devices should be aware of this potential problem.
Long-term results of implantable automatic defibrillator in 43 patients. Analysis of predictive factors of the first electric shock]	In order to identify patients who will receive an electric shock after implantation of an automatic fibrillator, the relationship between the time to the first shock and clinical and paraclinical characteristics were studied in 43 patients treated at the Lyon Cardiological Hospital between July 1987 and September 1991. The age of the patients was 49.5 +/- 16 years (mean + SD). Eighty two percent of patients were men and the average left ventricular ejection fraction was 38.5 +/- 16.8%. Four patients died in the peri-operative period. The average follow-up of the survivors was 22 months. During this period, 21 patients (53.8%) received an appropriate electric shock. Three patients died. The causal role of a malignant ventricular arrhythmia is discussed in one case. A second patient, who never had automatic fibrillation, died of cardiac failure. Finally, the third patient died of non-cardiac pathology. The 22 month actuarial survival rate was 86%. The probability of receiving an appropriate electric shock was 60%. Analysis of clinical and paraclinical features identified left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction less than 38%) and cardiac symptoms (Stage III dyspnoea of the NYHA classification) as being associated with earlier electric shocks. This association was even more clear cut in the group of patients with previous myocardial infarction. Therefore, patients with implantable automatic defibrillators for malignant ventricular arrhythmias receive appropriate electric shocks in over 50% of cases. Patients with symptoms of cardiac failure and low ejection fraction are particularly exposed especially when they have previous myocardial infarction.
Innovations in pulse generators and lead systems: balancing complexity with clinical benefit and long-term results.	Technologic development of implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) is now in an exponential growth phase, and many new concepts are being examined. Major innovations have occurred in pulse generators and in lead systems. This may increase ICD use for primary and secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death. Pulse generators now include hybrid pacemaker-defibrillators. Clinical data suggest a need for demand pacing in primary and secondary prevention applications, with antitachycardia pacing being most valuable in the latter group. Atrial leads will allow dual chamber sensing, pacing, and defibrillation. Low energy cardioversion with biphasic shocks can enhance shock efficacy in rapid monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and flutter. Modifications of lead design, biphasic shock waveforms, and optimal thoracic electrode location in axillary or pectoral regions will permit lower energy defibrillation and smaller pulse generators with lower maximum energy outputs of < or = 25 joules. Dual chamber sensing will improve detection of atrial flutter or fibrillation. Minimum data storage requirements for tachycardia events in ICDs still need to be defined. Intracardiac electrogram analysis is still in evolution, and better analytic methods are awaited. Lead system development is likely to support generic pacing and defibrillation catheter electrodes for atrial and ventricular application. Advances in thoracic electrode design are in progress, and a variety of intercostal electrodes are being tested. Improvements in lead design with further impact on defibrillation energy requirements have the potential to permit generator miniaturization. Significant technologic improvements in ICD devices are imminent and should improve clinical results, patient safety, and quality of life.
Antitachycardia pacing and low-energy cardioversion for ventricular tachycardia termination: a clinical perspective.	When incorporated into tiered therapy implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), antitachycardia pacing (ATP) techniques have proved useful for termination of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardias (VT) and have the advantages of rapid delivery, absence of patient discomfort, and minimal battery drain. The efficacy of low-energy cardioversion (LEC) is similar to that of pacing techniques for VT termination, but LEC has the disadvantages of patient discomfort, atrial proarrhythmia, and greater battery drain compared with ATP. Acceleration of VT occurs with similar frequency with each technique. Neither technique should be used without back-up defibrillation capability in an ICD. VT termination algorithms are currently empiric and require repetitive arrhythmia induction and trials of ATP or LEC. Future studies of the risk and benefits of each technique are likely to define optimal programming strategies in tiered therapy ICDs.
The role of cardioversion therapy in patients with implanted cardioverter defibrillators.	Stable ventricular tachycardias can be treated with pacing or electrical countershock. Use of pacing includes several advantages, but it is not always effective; when pacing is not effective, shocks can be used for cardioversion of the arrhythmia. Use of such shocks includes advantages and disadvantages, but generally they are well tolerated and form an important part of the treatment of patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias.
Hemodynamic deterioration during ICD implant: predictors of high-risk patients.	Defibrillation threshold (DFT) testing during implantation of the cardioverter defibrillator is associated with hemodynamic deterioration and pump failure in many patients. We investigated the influence of DFT testing on cardiac function intraoperatively using a balloon-tipped catheter. In 13 consecutive patients with a nonthoracotomy approach, a mean of 3.4 +/- 1.4 episodes of ventricular fibrillation were induced with an overall ischemic time of 87 +/- 54 seconds. At the end of DFT testing, patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) of < 30% had significant impairment of cardiac index (1.6 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2 after testing vs 2.2 +/- 0.6 L/min/m2 before the procedure). One patient with severely comprised ventricular function needed prolonged positive inotropic support. The left ventricular function of patients with a preoperative EF > or = 30%, however, was not changed (2.2 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2 after testing and 2.2 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2 before testing). The two groups did not differ with respect to the number of testing episodes, ischemic time, or DFT. Thus patients with a low preoperative EF (< 30%) are threatened by a severe left ventricular deterioration during ICD implantation. Close hemodynamic monitoring with a balloon-tipped catheter is recommended in these patients.
Clinical predictors of successful implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation.	Successful implantation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillation system is critically dependent on demonstration that the lead system to be implanted can defibrillate reliably. Defibrillation efficacy in turn is dependent on several sets of factors that include: (1) defibrillation technique and the lead system being tested; (2) defibrillation testing protocol and criteria for implantation; and (3) clinical variables that may be intrinsic to the patient or extrinsic factors to which the patient is being exposed. Existing clinical data are limited but suggest that poor left ventricular function is the clinical variable most consistently associated with poor defibrillation efficacy and a failure to meet implant criteria of the epicardial lead systems. Antiarrhythmic drugs may elevate the defibrillation threshold, but evidence that this has important clinical ramifications on implantation success rates is very limited and incomplete.
Advances in follow-up techniques for implantable defibrillators.	The complexity of newer implantable defibrillators has made device follow-up increasingly more intricate. Extensive data-logging capacity provides specific information on recorded events, which facilitates more accurate determination of patient arrhythmias. This helps the clinician judge whether the device is detecting and treating arrhythmias appropriately, or whether false sensing of external signals or supraventricular rhythms is occurring. There is also a record of the efficacy of delivered therapy from the device that helps in optimizing subsequent programming. Programming itself has become much more complicated, with multiple independently programmable therapy zones, each with numerous available therapeutic modalities. In addition, defibrillator status information has been improved. Accurate battery voltage measurements give a reasonable estimate of remaining device life, and pace/sense and shock lead impedances can be measured to provide information on total system integrity. Together, these advances allow more specific programming of the device to the individual patient's condition but require increasing experience and expertise of the physician.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator therapy in patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, long QT syndrome, or no structural heart disease.	Recent technical developments in implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems and reduced operative mortality and morbidity rates associated with ICD implantation have expanded the indications for ICD treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. This review summarizes data regarding ICD therapy in patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, long QT syndrome, and idiopathic ventricular fibrillation and presents preliminary concepts for identification of patients who will benefit more from ICD therapy than from pharmacologic and other nonpharmacologic approaches. Recent studies suggest that ICD therapy may improve long-term prognosis by reliably terminating recurrences of life-threatening arrhythmias. Appropriate ICD therapies during mean follow-up periods of 12 to 36 months occurred in 30% of patients with idiopathic ventricular fibrillation to 50% of patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and long QT syndrome. At present no strict recommendations can be given for ICD implantation in these patients. However, at least in cardiac arrest survivors in whom the clinical arrhythmia is not reproducibly inducible during electrophysiologic study, ICD therapy appears to be superior to other treatment options with regard to long-term survival and thus should be considered as a first-line treatment. We are hopeful that continued study of long-term follow-up with and without ICD treatment and improved risk stratification will lead to better criteria for selection of treatment options.
The impact of left ventricular dysfunction on outcomes with the implantable defibrillator.	Implanted cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are very effective in the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. Among patients with severe left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, ICDs can defibrillate at energies similar to those in patients with well-preserved LV function; the perioperative mortality rate with transvenous systems is low, even in patients with a low ejection fraction (EF). In patients whose EF is < 30%, sudden death and total mortality rates are relatively low. However, at most only 50% of deaths in patients with low EFs are sudden, and life in these patients may be only slightly prolonged by successful defibrillator shocks. The true value of ICDs in these patients can be determined only by comparison with optimal medical therapy in randomized controlled studies. The Canadian Implantable Defibrillator Study randomly assigns patients with ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia to ICD or amiodarone. Current patient profiles show that most of these patients have poor LV function (mean EF, 33.6%), and most receive optimal medical therapy. Results of this and other studies will clarify the benefits from ICDs in these patients with severe heart disease.
Interactions between drugs and devices: experimental and clinical studies.	It is important to understand the potential interactions between the implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) and antiarrhythmic therapy in patients who receive pharmacologic therapy as an adjunct to ICD therapy. In our cohort of 101 patients, antiarrhythmic agents were prescribed in 67% of the patients during long-term therapy for the following reasons: to suppress ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation episodes (50%), to lower the rate of ventricular tachycardia (19%), to prevent supraventricular tachyarrhythmia (21%), and for other reasons (10%). The potential influence of antiarrhythmic drugs on the defibrillation threshold (DFT) is the most important issue. In animal studies lidocaine increased the DFT in a dose-dependent manner. Quinidine, procainamide, propafenone, and flecainide did not affect the DFT or, in some cases, led to a small increase. Sotalol even decreased the energy requirements for internal defibrillation. In a prospective investigation we were able to document a significant increase of DFT (from 14.1 + 3.0 to 20.9 + 5.4 J, p < 0.001) by the use of amiodarone (400 mg/day), whereas this effect was not found in patients who received mexiletine (720 mg/day). In conclusion, the DFT or the safety margin for defibrillation should be known before antiarrhythmic agents are administered to patients with an ICD. In case of a small safety margin, the DFT should be reassessed after antiarrhythmic drug therapy is begun.
Wound complications and treatment of the infected implantable cardioverter defibrillator generator.	Since 1980, the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) has evolved as effective therapy for prevention of sudden cardiac death following documented sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. During a 5-year period, 412 ICD devices were implanted at the University of Michigan Hospitals with a wound complication rate of 4.1%. In this group, there were 13 infections, 3 erosions of the generator pocket, and 1 wound hematoma. Of the 16 patients with infection or erosion, 12 patients were treated with a rectus abdominis muscle flap closure and 4 with ICD generator removal. In 83% (n = 12) of the muscle flap patients, the wound healed uneventfully. Preoperative chest CT scanning was found to be helpful in identifying probable infection of the epicardial leads. In these cases, all hardware had to be removed to achieve resolution of the infection. We concluded that rectus abdominis muscle flaps were helpful in salvaging infected or exposed ICD generators in the absence of infected epicardial leads.
Clinical experience with the transvenous Medtronic Pacer Cardioverter Defibrillator (PCD) System.	We review our experience with the transvenous Medtronic Pacer Cardioverter Defibrillator System (Model 7217B), a multifunction implantable pacer defibrillator combined with a transvenous lead system (Transvene). From April 1991 to October 1992, we implanted this device in 19 consecutive patients (11 men and 8 women; average age, 56.5 years). Nine patients (47.4%), 5 with coronary artery disease and 4 with dilated cardiomyopathy, had an ejection fraction of < 30%. The average operative time was 129 minutes. In 18 patients (94.7%), the transvenous lead system provided effective sensing, pacing, and defibrillation during intraoperative testing. In each of these cases, the defibrillation threshold was less than 18 J. In 1 patient (5.3%), it was necessary to switch to epicardial leads, which were implanted through a left thoracotomy. All patients were extubated in the recovery room. The average hospital stay was 8 days. There was no early mortality or morbidity. During a maximum follow-up period of 17 months (mean, 9.2 months), no sudden death occurred. The implantable system terminated 245 ventricular tachycardia episodes in 14 patients (73.7%) and 82 ventricular fibrillation episodes in 13 patients (68.4%). Two hundred eleven (86.1%) of the ventricular tachycardia episodes were resolved by antitachycardia pacing alone. In 2 patients (10.5%), the caval electrode became dislocated; repositioning of the electrode was followed by repeat defibrillation threshold evaluation. Our experience shows that the transvenous Medtronic Pacer Cardioverter Defibrillator System provides safe, effective treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Because the perioperative mortality and morbidity are extremely low, use of this device may be particularly beneficial in patients with a high operative risk. Moreover, the lower number of unpleasant therapeutic shocks should increase patient a acceptance of the device.
New approach to implantation of automatic defibrillators using video-thoracoscopy]	Nonthoracotomy lead systems are increasingly used in patients (pts) with implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). In this setting, due to high energy requirements, a subcutaneous patch may be necessary in addition to endocardial leads. However in some patients, high defibrillation threshold (DT) may persist leading to thoracotomy for epicardial patch placement. In a preliminary experience, 3 patients with high DT (> 20J) following endocardial lead system, underwent the insertion of a extrapericardial patch under video-thoracoscopic control. A left subcostal incision extended to the left pleural cavity was performed. Using thoracoscopy the patch was positioned on the pericardium, sutured and connected to the defibrillator. DTs were 10, 10 and 20 J respectively in our 3 patients. Postoperative course was uneventful. Thoracoscopy allows other techniques such as a stellectomy, which we performed in a 33 year old woman with long QT syndrome. Patients were reassessed after 8 days and 2 months. Termination of induced ventricular fibrillation was achieved with the same minimal energy levels used peroperatively. In conclusion, extrapericardial patch insertion using thoracoscopy may help reduce DT in ICD patients with a non thoracotomy lead system. Comparison with other lead configurations requires further investigation.
Dual-chamber implantable automatic defibrillators. Experiences apropos of 16 cases]	In view of the large number of inappropriate shocks observed in patients with implanted defibrillators, improved detection of ventricular arrhythmias has become a major objective. The addition of an atrial catheter has been proposed to improve discrimination between ventricular and non-ventricular arrhythmias. Besides this function, the additional catheter could be used for DDD pacing without risk of interaction between the pacemaker and defibrillator. The authors report their initial experience in 16 patients implanted with a DDD pacemaker. The indication was resuscitated sudden death (N = 5) or ventricular tachycardia (N = 11). The choice of a DDD defibrillator was justified by a bradycardia (N = 9), haemodynamic factors (N = 4) or supraventricular tachycardia (N = 3). The devices used were the Defender 9001 (ELA Medical SA, France, N = 3), the Ventak AV 1810 and the Ventak AV II DR 1821 (Guidant/CPI, Inc. USA, N = 11 and N = 2 respectively). There were three immediate complications. After 2 to 29 months' follow-up, 5 patients had received appropriate treatment by their devices. Five patients had inappropriate shocks : one patient received a shock triggered by electrical interference, two others had no active sensing algorithme when the shocks were delivered, and the other two had an activated algorithme with 1/1 conduction of a supraventricular arrhythmia. No recurrences were recorded after reprogramming the device. DDD or VDD pacing was permanent in 9 patients and intermittent in 3 others. Seven patients had dilated cardiomyopathy and severe cardiac failure and were clinically improved by dual chamber pacing. In many patients, candidates for a defibrillator, this new generation of devices has improved specificity of arrhythmia detection and cardiac pacing without risk of interaction. The authors propose a classification of the indications for a DDD defibrillator.
Drug therapy of ventricular tachycardia]	Despite the introduction of new therapeutic techniques such as radiofrequency ablation and the implantable defibrillator, the classical opposition of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia in apparently normal hearts and that arising from documented cardiac disease remains useful. In the first case, treatment is only symptomatic whereas, in the second, lethal progression to sudden death must be prevented. Generally speaking, in chronic post-infarct situations, betablockers are underused although they have been shown beyond doubt to reduce cardiovascular mortality. This is probably explained by the fear of possible haemodynamic decompensation in patients who often have left ventricular dysfunction. Nevertheless, different randomised studies of the use of betablockers in cardiac failure have reported reduced mortality with no serious side effects. The use of beta-blockers is therefore advisable, and possible inpatients with or without sustained ventricular tachycardia and underlying cardiac disease. In cases at high risk of sudden death, amiodarone may be associated. Recent randomised studies (MADIT, AVID), comparing the use of implantable defibrillators with those of antiarrhythmic therapy, have shown better results with the implantable defibrillator. However, in these studies, only about 10% of patients received betablockers in the antiarrhythmic treatment groups. This factor has introduced some doubt as to the real benefit of implantable defibrillators. Therefore, a randomised study comparing the efficacy of betablockers with amiodarone against implantable defibrillators is desirable in order to determine the respective indications of each of these two therapeutic modalities.
Implantable automatic defibrillators in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia]	The implantable automatic defibrillator (IAD) is the treatment of choice of malignant ventricular arrhythmias or those resistant to pharmacological or ablative techniques. However, the small number of implantations in France, the presence of many different models, the cost and sophistication of the latest models explain why IAD remain a poorly known therapeutic method because it is highly specialised and reserved for cardiological departments with a rhythmological interest. Several factors suggest that the number of implantations will increase in the future. Firstly, the techniques of implantation have been considerably simplified and associated with technological improvements of the devices, and, secondly, publication of several trials (MADIT, AVID), even if the conclusions in favour of IAD must be carefully interpreted, will change our methods of management of patients with severe ventricular arrhythmias. The current indications of IAD in ventricular tachycardia and future prospects are discussed in the light of new data.
Implanted automatic defibrillator after ventricular fibrillation treated with semi-automatic defibrillation]	We report two cases of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation treated without delay, with basic life support practiced by the witness, followed by a successful defibrillation by paramedics with a semi-automatic defibrillator. In the subsequent month, a cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted. In one patient, a ventricular tachycardia occurring 10 months later and a ventricular fibrillation 9 months later in the other respectively, were successfully reversed by the implanted defibrillator. These two cases illustrate the value of the "survival chain" concept (undelayed alert, basic life support by witness, early defibrillation by paramedics with a semi-automatic defibrillator, advanced life support by a physician) as well as the benefit of the implanted cardioverter-defibrillator.
Randomized, prospective comparison of four burst pacing algorithms for spontaneous ventricular tachycardia.	"Less aggressive" burst stimulation is more effective in terminating spontaneous monomorphic ventricular tachycardia with a lesser acceleration rate. Higher ventricular tachycardia cycle length and use of 91% coupling interval were independent predictors for pacing termination.
Randomized comparison of a 90 uF capacitor three-electrode defibrillation system with a 125 uF two-electrode defibrillation system.	A variety of factors, including the number of defibrillation electrodes and shocking capacitance, may influence the defibrillation efficacy of an implantable defibrillator system. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare the defibrillation energy requirement using a 125 uF two-electrode defibrillation system and a 90 uF three-electrode defibrillation system.
Should patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators be allowed to drive? Observations in 291 patients from a single center over an 11-year period.	Motor-vehicle driving restrictions for patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) vary widely throughout the world because safety concerns have never been adequately resolved in this patient population. To address this issue, we examined the driving behavior of 291 ICD patients to correlate the frequency of device therapy during driving, the occurrence of syncopal symptoms, and the incidence of traffic accidents. Fifty of the 291 patients had never driven. Of the remaining 241 patients, 171 (59%) continued driving postimplant and 70 (24%) elected to stop prior to (n = 30) or at the time of ICD implantation (n = 40). Patients were followed for a mean of 38 +/- 26 months (range < 1-124). During this period, no patients died while driving. Of 11 accidents involving 11 driving patients (6%), only 1 was caused by the driver, and none was related to syncopal symptoms or ICD therapy. Although 2 accidents (8%) occurred within 12 months postimplant, the majority (50%) took place after more than 36 months. ICD therapy was delivered in 8 patients (5%) while driving: 13% (1 episode) of the discharges occurred within the first year postimplant, 13% (1 episode) occurred between 1-2 years, and 74% (6 episodes) occurred > 2 years. None of these patients experienced syncope before or during these episodes. A multivariate analysis was unable to identify any variables that might predict increased risk of ICD therapy (with or without sudden death) while driving and consequent motor vehicle accidents. Our data suggest that such events occur only rarely.
When an AED meets an ICD... Automated external defibrillator. Implantable cardioverter defibrillator.	The chances of prehospital care providers being confronted with a patient with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) are increasing and so care providers must receive proper training. Based on observations made during the resuscitation of a patient with an ICD using an automated external defibrillator (AED) some technical features and possible interactions of ICDs and AEDs are highlighted. Furthermore, we discuss the key points of basic knowledge, safety, and treatment protocols for cardiac arrest and other situations required for practical training in the ICD for prehospital care providers.
