Effect of radiofrequency catheter ablation on plasma B-type natriuretic peptide.	The study was designed to investigate the impact of radiofrequency catheter ablation on the plasma level of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP). In 36 patients who underwent catheter ablation of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, the plasma level of BNP was analyzed before and after the ablation procedures. The plasma BNP at baseline, 30 minutes after the ablation, 3 and 24 hours after the ablation was 12.78 +/- 2.47, 18.45 +/- 4.02 (P = 0.446), 43.54 +/- 8.12 (P = 0.0001), and 17.88 +/- 4.71 (P = 0.493) pg/mL, respectively. Plasma troponin I was also increased 3 and 24 hours after the ablation (n = 10, P < 0.05). Multivariate regression analysis showed a significant correlation between the levels of BNP 3 hours after ablation and the preablation BNP and the total radiofrequency energy used for the ablation. We conclude that radiofrequency catheter ablation of supraventricular tachycardia increases the plasma level of BNP. The clinical significance of the ablation-induced increase in BNP needs to be further investigated.
Low serum albumin levels in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: what does it mean?	Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac rhythm disturbance in clinical practice; its risk factors are complex and far from being clarified up to now. Previous studies demonstrated that hypoalbuminaemia significantly correlates with cardiac diseases.
C-type natriuretic peptide in individuals with normal left ventricular systolic function.	The objective of this study was to evaluate production or release of CNP in individuals without CHF.
Cardiac troponin I elevation with supraventricular tachycardia: two case reports and review of the literature.	Although cardiac troponin I gives excellent accuracy in the identification of myocardial necrosis, it can also be elevated in a series of diseases other than acute coronary syndromes.
Relationship between atrial natriuretic polypeptide and cyclic 3'5'-guanosine monophosphate in human plasma.	To examine the interrelationship between human atrial natriuretic polypeptide (hANP) and cyclic 3'5'-guanosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP), plasma concentrations of these compounds were determined in 61 disease-free humans, as controls, and in 35 patients with congestive heart failure. Levels of plasma hANP (199.6 +/- 53.7 pg/ml) and cyclic GMP (12.6 +/- 1.7 pmol/ml) in patients with congestive heart failure were significantly higher than in the control subjects (hANP 57.1 +/- 2.8 pg/ml, cyclic GMP 5.2 +/- 0.3 pmol/ml). Although plasma hANP concentrations in the patients with congestive heart failure tended to increase with the severity of cardiac dysfunction, there was no significant correlation between the levels of plasma hANP and the grade of heart failure, classified according to the New York Heart Association. However, a significant correlation was found between plasma hANP and cyclic GMP concentrations in both the healthy subjects and the patients with congestive heart failure, and a weak positive correlation between plasma hANP and cyclic 3'5'-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) concentration in the patients with congestive heart failure. Thus, changes in plasma cyclic GMP concentration depend to some extent on the plasma concentrations of hANP.
Content of endogenous prostanoids in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular disorders of the heart rhythm]	Blood endogenous prostaglandins, E, F2 alpha, prostacyclin and thromboxane levels were measured in the ascending aorta and the coronary sinus of 32 patients (29 males and 3 females) with paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia) during the sinus rhythm and an arrhythmic paroxysm. Group 1 was made up by 22 patients with idiopathic cardiac rhythm disorders, and group 2 comprised 10 coronary patients with arrhythmias. A relationship was demonstrated between cardiac endogenous prostanoids balance and the clinical pattern of cardiac rhythm abnormality (duration and frequency of paroxysms) as well as changes in cardiac prostanoid rations associated with tachyarrhythmic paroxysms.
Double-blind study of intravenous propafenone for paroxysmal supraventricular reentrant tachycardia.	Propafenone was administered during electrophysiologic testing to determine its efficacy and safety for terminating and preventing reinduction of paroxysmal supraventricular reentrant tachycardia. Four men and 10 women (mean age 50 years, range 28 to 69) were studied. Five patients had Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with orthodromic atrioventricular (AV) reentrant tachycardia, three had a concealed accessory pathway with AV reentrant tachycardia and six had tachycardia due to reentry within the AV node. In the five patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in three (the tachycardia was reinducible in one) and had no effect in two. In the three patients with a concealed accessory pathway, propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in all three and prevented reinduction of the tachycardia in two. In the six patients with tachycardia due to reentry within the AV node, propafenone terminated and prevented reinduction of reentrant tachycardia. Propafenone had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate, PA interval, AV node refractoriness or rate of reentrant tachycardia. Propafenone significantly (p less than 0.05) prolonged the AH, HV, QRS and ventriculoatrial intervals and decreased the AV node Wenckebach rate. Of the nine patients receiving long-term oral propafenone therapy, eight had a reduction of at least 90% in reentrant tachycardia during a mean follow-up period of 14.5 months (range 11 to 22); all eight patients had had noninducible reentrant tachycardia after intravenous propafenone. One patient had increased frequency of reentrant tachycardia; this patient had had inducible reentrant tachycardia after intravenous propafenone. In conclusion, intravenously administered propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in 85% of patients and prevented reinduction in 71%, with no adverse hemodynamic effects.
Plasma electrolytes in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmia]	In 50 patients treated for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, plasma concentrations of potassium, magnesium and calcium were determined during arrhythmia and after 20, 60, and 180 minutes from the return of sinus rhythm. For achieving normal rhythm digitalis, quinidine and isoptin were used or electrical cardioversion was performed. No patient received potassium of magnesium preparations during observation. It was found that: 1. In patients with paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmia a significant increase of plasma potassium concentration was observed after regression of arrhythmia. The highest potassium concentration was found after 60 minutes from the return of sinus rhythm. 2. The increase of potassium concentration was higher in patients after episode of supraventricular tachycardia than atrial fibrillation. 3. In patients with short-lasting arrhythmia (up to 3 hours) the increase of potassium concentration after achieving normal rhythm was higher than in patients with longer-lasting arrhythmia. 4. In patients with supraventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation a significant decrease of plasma magnesium and calcium concentrations was found after restoration of sinus rhythm.
