Follow-up electron beam CT for the management of early phase Takayasu arteritis.	The purpose of this work was to assess typical findings of Takayasu arteritis on serial CT examinations following therapy.
Progression of Takayasu's aortitis in a young Japanese woman: serial angiographic study.	Progression of Takayasu's aortitis was observed by serial angiography over 2 years. Acute aortic regurgitation due to marked dilatation of the proximal ascending aorta was followed by aneurysmal dilatation of the distal ascending aorta. Aneurysmal dilatation of the carotid arteries then developed, with subsequent obstruction of both the bilateral vessels by thrombosis.
Inflammatory activity in Takayasu arteritis. Detection through positron emission tomography (PET)]	Takayasu arteritis (TA) is a chronic disease that affects mainly the aorta. Its etiology is still unknown, nevertheless it predominates in women and initiates primarily in the youth. This disease seems to have two different stages, an early stage that is characterized by an inflammatory process and a later stage characterized by vascular occlusion. Unitl now, diagnosis and classification of TA are made clinically, based on ACR; criteria and imaging studies as computed tomography and aorta angiographies. Currently, new imaging, non invasive studies, such as magnetic resonance (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) are being used. PET technique could be helpful in the diagnosis and detection of inflammatory activity in patients with TA because of its capacity to detect increased metabolism. We present the case of a female patient with TA diagnosis, which demonstrated clinical inflammatory activity that was corroborated by laboratory studies, MRI and PET.
Evaluation of the tardus-parvus pattern in patients with atherosclerotic and nonatherosclerotic renal artery stenosis.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the differences in the tardus-parvus pattern between atherosclerotic and nonatherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (RAS) and to explore the causes of these differences.
A case of Takayasu arteritis complicated by right atrium perforation and injuries of the right common iliac artery and vein caused by cannulation for percutaneous cardiopulmonary support.	We describe an autopsy case of Takayasu arteritis with right atrium perforation and injuries of the right common iliac artery and vein caused by cannulation for percutaneous cardiopulmonary support (PCPS). The decedent was an 8-year-old girl admitted for examination in respect to chest pain and syncope. During catheter angiography, she suddenly went into cardiac arrest. PCPS was attempted, whereupon bleeding into the abdominal cavity and an injury to the common iliac vein were observed. She was pronounced dead 78 hours after the initiation of PCPS. Autopsy revealed thickening of the aortic wall from the ascending aorta to the abdominal aorta, with narrowing of the proximal branches. Hemopericardium induced by right atrium perforation, and an injury of the right common iliac artery, were also found. Microscopic examinations of the aorta disclosed thickening of each layer of the vessel wall and inflammatory cell infiltration, mainly into the outer layer of the media. It was speculated that manipulation of the catheter and the underlying Takayasu arteritis caused cardiac arrest. It is also considered that hypovolemia was induced by the injuries of the right common iliac artery and vein caused during the insertion of the PCPS venous cannula. In addition, the right atrium was injured by the edge of the PCPS cannula, leading to hemopericardium. In pediatric cases involving PCPS, or in cases where cannulation is difficult, regular examination of the pericardial and abdominal cavities by echocardiography would provide useful information to prevent such accidents.
Aneurysm of the inferior mesenteric artery.	The case of a 48-year-old man with an aneurysm of the inferior mesenteric artery is described. This aneurysm was associated with extensive vascular disease characterized by multiple sites of stenosis and occlusion in addition to an upper abdominal aortic aneurysm. Repair of both aneurysms and reconstruction of the left renal artery and inferior mesenteric artery, which supplied all splanchnic circulation, were performed. The aetiology of the disease was thought to involve Takayasu's arteritis.
Diffuse pulmonary lesions in early phase Takayasu arteritis predominantly involving pulmonary artery.	We report a case of early phase Takayasu arteritis that predominantly involved the pulmonary arteries and had, along with expected radiographic findings, the unusual pattern of diffuse pulmonary parenchymal lesions on CT. We suggest that this finding may be an additional feature in early phase Takayasu arteritis and need not require investigation for an additional diagnosis.
