Focus debridement of chronic sequestered talus osteomyelitis by TCNC arthrodesis. A new technique with ring fixateur]	A technique utilizing the Ilizarov ring fixator to stabilize a tibio-calcaneo-naviculo-cuboideal arthrodesis following talus resection is introduced. The advantages of this method will be demonstrated with the help of a case history. The described method permits early weight bearing, while supplying stability and compression of the fusion, thereby avoiding further loss of bone stock, while reducing the risk of thromboembolic complications. The Ilizarov ring fixator construction allows for the combination of the fusion with the correction of a preexisting or ensueing leg length discrepancy.
Surgical management of symptomatic talocalcaneal coalitions by resection of the sustentaculum tali.	Previously described techniques for surgical resection of the subtalar coalitions are technically demanding, with poor outcomes related to incomplete resection and recurrence of the coalition. A new technique, involving complete excision of the involved portion of the sustentaculum tali, has been developed at the authors' institution. A retrospective review of 10 patients with 12 coalitions was performed. The index procedure was performed at an average age of 12.7 years, with a mean follow-up of 5.1 years. Preoperative CT scans obtained to assess the extent of the coalition were analyzed. The AOFAS Hindfoot Questionnaire was used postoperatively to assess the patients' overall outcome and satisfaction with the procedure. Overall, there were eight excellent results and three good results. The postoperative mean AOFAS score was 90 compared with a preoperative score of 46. There have been no recurrences of the coalition or progressive foot malalignment in this series of patients.
Reliability of diffraction enhanced imaging for assessment of cartilage lesions, ex vivo.	The assessment of articular cartilage integrity is of value for the detection of early degenerative joint disease in both the clinical and the research settings. It was the purpose of this study to determine the accuracy and reliability of identifying articular cartilage defects through Diffraction Enhanced Imaging (DEI), a high contrast radiographic imaging technique. DEI provides two new sources of image contrast to radiography: refraction and scatter rejection, besides the absorption of conventional radiography.
Tuberculous destruction of the talus--a rare form of extrapulmonary skeletal TBC--a case report]	A 29 year old vietnamesian patient comes to an examination because of pain in the ankle one week after the arrival in Germany. The clinical examination is inconspicuous, x-ray pictures show a necrosis of the talus. A puncture is sterile. A partial astragalektomie is done. Histology demonstrates a tuberculosis.
Accuracy analysis of Iso-C3D versus fluoroscopy-based navigated retrograde drilling of osteochondral lesions: a pilot study.	The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the accuracy of two different methods of navigated retrograde drilling of talar lesions. Artificial osteochondral talar lesions were created in 14 cadaver lower limbs. Two methods of navigated drilling were evaluated by one examiner. Navigated Iso-C(3D) was used in seven cadavers and 2D fluoroscopy-based navigation in the remaining seven. Of 14 talar lesions, 12 were successfully targeted by navigated drilling. In both cases of inaccurate targeting the 2D fluoroscopy-based navigation was used, missing lesions by 3 mm and 5 mm, respectively. The mean radiation time was increased using Iso-C(3D) navigation (23 s; 22 to 24) compared with 2D fluoroscopy-based navigation (14 s, 11 to 17).
Comparison of subchondral lesion size between clinical and non-clinical medial trochlear ridge talar osteochondritis dissecans in dogs.	In this retrospective study of nine dogs exhibiting bilateral medial trochlear ridge talar osteochondritis dissecans (MTRT-OCD) and unilateral hind limb lameness, we compared subchondral lesion size in limbs with visible lameness, with contralateral lesions that were not associated with any visible lameness. All MTRT-OCD lesions were imaged by radiography and computed tomography (CT). The dimensions of subchondral bone lesions were measured (length, width and depth) using CT software. Similar to a method used in humans, the estimated volume (length x width x depth) and cross sectional area (length x width) were calculated and compared. We found that MTRT-OCD lesions causing visible lameness were significantly larger, and were associated with more joint thickening and degenerative joint disease than contralateral lesions that were not associated with any apparent lameness. As in the disease of shoulder osteochondritis dissecans, there is probably a correlation between the size of MTRT-OCD lesions and the symptoms of lameness.
Dysplasia epiphysealis hemimelica (Trevor disease) presenting as peroneal spastic flatfoot deformity: a case report.	Trevor disease (dysplasia epiphysealis hemimelica) involving the foot and ankle is not uncommon, but its presentation as a progressive spastic flatfoot deformity is unusual. The patient reported had an isolated lesion in the medial facet of the subtalar joint. In addition to the unusual presentation and location, the lesion recurred 1 year after surgical excision.
Corticosteroid-induced avascular necrosis of the talus.	An unusual case of avascular necrosis of the talus secondary to chronic steroid usage is presented, along with a review of the literature. Etiologic factors as well as radiographic and clinical features will be discussed. Possible treatment alternatives will be reviewed. With greater knowledge of this pathologic process, prompt diagnosis may prevent its potentially harmful sequelae.
Minimally invasive deltoid ligament reconstruction for stage IV flatfoot deformity.	Stage IV is the most advanced form of acquired adult flatfoot deformity (AAFD). It is present when valgus tibiotalar angulation occurs with foot deformities associated with AAFD. Tibiotalocalcaneal or pantalar fusion has been the gold standard for treatment of Stage IV AAFD. However, in some of these patients the tibiotalar deformity is correctable. We sought to determine whether minimally invasive deltoid ligament reconstruction in conjunction with triple arthrodesis (MIDLR/Triple) allows tibiotalar joint sparing surgical therapy in Stage IV-A AAFD patients.
Short-term outcome of retrograde tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with a curved intramedullary nail.	The aim of this study was to investigate the potential clinical benefit of tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis (TTCA) with an intramedullary nail with a valgus curve, two compression options, and angle-stable locking.
Arthrodesis of the talonavicular joint using angle-stable mini-plates: a prospective study.	The talonavicular joint is a central connection of the human foot. Symptomatic talonavicular arthritis can be adequately addressed by isolated talonavicular fusion. However, non-union remains a relevant clinical challenge to the orthopaedic surgeon. The aim of this study was to analyse the clinicoradiological outcome of talonavicular fusion using angle-stable mini-plates.
Idiopathic talus necrosis in an infant]	A case of a spontaneous osteonecrosis of the talus in a 22 months old girl is reported. Under treatment in a non-weight-bearing leg brace the talus recovered without remaining deformities. Osteomyelitis, tumors, neurogenic arthropathy and traumatic origin were taken into diagnostic consideration, but could be excluded by clinical, radiological and laboratory examinations. According to our knowledge an idiopathic osteonecrosis of the talus occurring in an infant of 22 months has never been reported before.
Unusual osteochondroma of the foot and ankle.	Osteochondroma, also known as osteocartilaginous exostosis, is by far the most commonly occurring benign bone neoplasm. Its occurrence is the most frequent of all osseous tumors found in the foot. A basic review is discussed along with two case reports. The first case describes an osteochondroma of the third metatarsal shaft that became symptomatic during boot camp. The second case presents an atypical osteochondroma arising from the posterior aspect of the talus.
Subperiosteal osteoid osteoma of the talus.	We report three patients with subperiosteal osteoid osteoma of the talus. All showed an erosion of the dorsal surface of the talus with medullary bone sclerosis. Adjacent paraosseous soft tissue calcification was seen in two lesions. Computed tomography demonstrated the nidus of the osteoid osteoma in two cases.
Changes in the sustentaculum tali associated with distension of the tarsal sheath (thoroughpin).	Results of the clinical and radiographic examination of 8 lame horses with tarsal sheath distension are described. In chronic cases pathological exostoses were identified radiographically in the sustentaculum tali and were demonstrated at post mortem in 4 of the horses which were destroyed. The prognosis and the feasibility of treatment are discussed in the light of these changes and the associated damage found at post mortem in the deep flexor tendon and its sheath. Trauma to the hock was known to have occurred in half the cases and was suspected in the others.
The Haglund syndrome: initial and differential diagnosis.	Haglund syndrome is a common cause of posterior heel pain, characterized clinically by a painful soft-tissue swelling at the level of the achilles tendon insertion. On the lateral heel radiograph the syndrome is characterized by a prominent calcaneal bursal projection, retrocalcaneal bursitis, thickening of the Achilles tendon, and a convexity of the superficial soft tissues at the level of the Achilles tendon insertion, a "pump-bump." An objective method for evaluating prominence of the bursal projection is measurement using the parallel pitch lines. This measurement helps to identify patients with Haglund syndrome and patients predisposed to develop this condition, and also to differentiate local causes of posterior heel pain from systemic causes. The parallel pitch line measurement was determined in 10 symptomatic feet and 78 control feet and the results were analyzed statistically.
Mirror image osteochondral defects of the talus and distal tibia.	We describe a patient with an osteochondral defect of the talus and a mirror image lesion of the adjacent tibial plafond. Modification of the existing classification of osteochondral fractures of the talus may be necessary to describe such lesions.
