Rarely seen fractures]	Rarely seen fractures are presented in this study. One case was a calcaneal spur, 2 cases osteochondroma pedicule fractures and talus posteromedial tubercle fracture due to direct trauma. Calcaneal spur and osteochondromas were removed surgically and posteromedial tubercle was treated by short-leg cast immobilization. In conclusion, we think that fractures of osteochondroma and calcaneal spur may be treated by surgical removal which do not cause any functional disorders after this operation, but fractures like the talus posteromedial tubercle should be treated conservatively by short-leg immobilization in the early period.
Sonographic diagnosis of talar lateral process fracture.	The frequency of fractures of the lateral process of the talus (LPT) has markedly increased because of the expansion of snowboard activity. These lesions are difficult to diagnose, because they have aspecific signs, and standard radiographs do not show the fractures in 50% of cases. Sonography is used more and more in the assessment of ankle trauma, but it is rarely performed for detection of bone fractures. We report a case of a patient in which sonography directly showed an LPT fracture.
Imaging of fractures of the lateral process of the talus, a frequently missed diagnosis.	Although if fractures of the lateral process of the talus (LPT) have been considered rare the widespread diffusion in snowboard practice has resulted in a dramatic increase in their frequency. If unrecognized they can result in secondary osteoarthritis of the ankle and/or talo-calcaneal joints and chronic pain and stiffness. Due to the complex anatomy of the region, these fractures are difficult to detect by standard radiographs. A high degree of suspicion is then necessary to diagnose them. Once suspected on the basis of physical examination and/or non concluding radiographs, computed tomography (CT) is the best modality to confirm the diagnosis and accurately appreciate the number of the fragments and their position which have therapeutic consequences (medical vs. surgical treatment). A better knowledge of these lesions seems necessary to the general radiologist to allow an early diagnosis in order to avoid chronic sequel. The purpose of this article is to report three additional cases of LPT fractures and discuss their pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment.
Talar body fracture combined with traumatic rupture of anterior talofibular ligament and peroneal longus tendon.	A rare case of talar body fracture combined with traumatic rupture of the anterior talofibular ligament and peroneal longus tendon is presented and reports in the literature are reviewed. We suggest that the mechanism of the injury was initial plantar flexion and inversion with rupture of anterior talofibular ligament and peroneal longus tendon, followed by forced dorsiflexion with talar body fracture. The treatment consisted of open reduction with internal fixation of the talar body fracture and primary repairs of the ruptured anterior talofibular ligament and peroneal longus tendon.
Fracture of the posterior process of talus.	Fracture of posterior process of talus is quite rare, but is associated with significant morbidity as it involves two articular surfaces. We report two such cases in which open reduction and internal fixation were done with good functional results. One of the cases had a concomitant medial malleolus fracture which to the best of our knowledge has not been reported so far.
Trimalleolar fractures with impaction of the posteromedial tibial plafond: implications for talar stability.	Trimalleolar fractures usually include a lateral malleolar fracture, a triangular fracture of the posterolateral corner of the tibial plafond, and a horizontal or oblique fracture of the medial malleolus. A subtype of a trimalleolar fracture is reported, differing in the shape and extent of the medial malleolar fracture and the posterior lip fracture, with implications for treatment.
Pediatric foot fractures.	Fractures of the foot in children usually have a good prognosis and generally are treated nonoperatively. Displaced fractures of the talus and calcaneus and tarsometatarsal dislocations are rare in children and their outcome is generally good in the younger child. Older adolescents with these injuries need treatment similar to how an adult would be treated for the same injury in order to achieve a good result. Foot fractures in children may pose a diagnostic challenge particularly in the absence of obvious radiographic changes. Repeated clinical examination and judicious use of imaging techniques such as isotope bone scans and magnetic resonance imaging are needed to establish a diagnosis. Knowledge of the anatomy and significance of accessory bones of the foot and disorders of the growing foot skeleton are helpful in managing injuries of child's foot. In this study, we review common injuries of a child's foot and include a discussion on differential diagnosis.
Snowboarder's talus fracture: treatment outcome of 20 cases after 3.5 years.	Fracture of the lateral process of the talus is a typical snowboarding injury. Basic data are limited, particularly with respect to treatment and outcome.
Fractures of the talar neck. A mechanical study of fixation.	Anatomical reduction and rigid internal fixation of fractures of the talar neck allow early mobilization of the ankle and subtalar joints. Forty fresh tali from cadavera were fractured across the talar neck and were internally fixed with one of four methods. The specimens were again loaded to failure, and mean yield loads, yield deformations, stiffness, and energy absorbed were compared. The two configurations of screws that were inserted posterior to anterior provided yield loads superior to those of screws inserted anterior to posterior. All combinations of screws were stronger than Kirschner wires. Comparisons of yield deformations, stiffness, and energy absorbed corroborated these results. The calculated theoretical maximum shear force across the talar neck during active motion was 1129 newtons. This exceeded the strength that was provided by Kirschner wires and anteriorly inserted screws but not that provided by screws that were placed posteriorly.
Are displaced talar neck fractures surgical emergencies? A survey of orthopaedic trauma experts.	Displaced talar neck fractures are relatively rare injuries with potentially serious long-term morbidity. Expedient treatment has long been held as a treatment principle. The purpose of this study was to assess the current state of practice of treating displaced talar neck fractures by recognized orthopaedic trauma experts working at level 1 trauma centers.
Hawkins type III fracture-dislocation of the talus and diastasis of the tibiofibular joint without concomitant fracture of the malleolei. A case report.	A 23-year-old man injured his foot in a motorcycle accident. Roentgenograms and computed tomography scans demonstrated a Hawkins Type III fracture-dislocation of the talus with a suspected disruption of the anterior tibiofibular ligament. Prompt anatomic reduction of the talus with rigid internal fixation was performed. Intraoperative stress roentgenograms confirmed the presence of a syndesmotic disruption. No cases of this injury have been reported in the literature. When no obvious fracture of the ankle mortise is present in a Hawkins Type III or IV talar fracture-dislocation, care must be taken to fully evaluate the osseous and ligamentous structures of the ankle to rule out an occult injury. Computed tomography scans, stress roentgenograms, intraoperative clinical examination, and direct visual inspection can all be used to aid in this evaluation.
The salvage of open grade IIIB ankle and talus fractures.	Between 1983 and 1989, 11 open grade IIIB ankle or talus fractures were treated according to protocol including debridement, temporary placement of antibiotic beads, soft tissue coverage (including seven free vascular tissue transfers), intravenous antibiotics and fusion using an anterior plate, and bone graft. All patients had a minimum of three separate hospitalizations. Each had at least five operative procedures performed with an average of 8.2/patient (range: 5-12). The total in-patient hospital stay averaged 61.6 days (20-107 days) and in patient costs averaged $62,174.43/patient (range: $33,535.06-$143,847.45). Overall hospital cost averaged $1,009.32/day. Follow-up averaged 47.8 months (range 32-85 months), with an average time to union of 4.4 months. Fusion rate and muscle flap success was 100%. Although fusion and eradication of infection in this specific group of patients was possible, significant functional and psychosocial disability remained. Eight of eleven patients had significant pain, difficulty with stairs, and limited ambulation. All changed jobs or were unemployed. Patients with open grade IIIB tibiotalar injuries with significant bone loss may therefore benefit from early amputation. A multicenter randomized clinical outcome study is needed.
Fracture of the neck of the talus associated with a trimalleolar ankle fracture and ruptured tibialis posterior tendon.	A rare case of a fracture through the neck of the talus with a trimalleolar ankle fracture and ruptured tibialis posterior tendon is presented and the literature reviewed. Management consisted of open-reduction internal fixation of the fractures and repair of the tibialis posterior tendon. At 40 months after injury, the patient had tibiotalar range of motion at 5 degrees of dorsiflexion and 38 degrees of plantar flexion. While avascular necrosis of the talus did not occur, significant degenerative arthritis of the ankle was noted.
Post talus neck fracture reconstruction.	Talar neck fractures are interesting fractures that require careful ORIF if the patient factors allow. The long-term sequelae of these fractures can be severe regardless of the quality of the reconstruction. Posttraumatic arthritis and avascular necrosis are devastating complications that are unfortunately common. Malunion and nonunion of talar neck fractures need to be evaluated carefully with attention to adjacent joints. A full workup is needed to fully evaluate the patient and fracture factors. If the patient has failed nonoperative treatment then reconstruction or salvage is considered. Reconstruction of ununited and malunited talar neck fractures can be successful if the patient is well selected. Corrective fusion is a viable alternative for those patients who have posttraumatic arthritis. Combined ankle replacement and subtalar fusion remains another motion-conserving procedure.
The role of bone scintigraphy in the evaluation of talar dome fractures.	We undertook a retrospective study of 122 patients with ankle pain to determine the accuracy of bone scintigraphy using 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate (MDP) for detection of osteochondral talar dome fractures (OCTDF). Plain radiographs, which were available in 97 patients, had not revealed any abnormality in the talar dome. Bone scintigraphy was followed by CT, which was considered to be the reference test in diagnosing OCTDF. Analysis of our data showed that when the bone scan findings in the two highest confidence categories (high and moderate probability) were accepted as abnormal, the sensitivity and the specificity of the test were 0.94 and 0.76, respectively. Although CT is mandatory to establish the stage of OCTDF, it cannot be used routinely due to its high cost. Bone scintigraphy appears to be a good screening procedure that will identify patients who are likely to benefit from further radiographic studies such as CT. These findings are subject to further confirmation in a prospective study.
Ankle and foot sprains: conventional radiography aspects]	Emergency departments frequently encounter pathology resulting from injury to the foot and ankle, with approximately 6000 case per day in France. In an ankle sprain, 85% of the lesions involve the lateral collateral ligament. Many other, much rarer, types of lesion with different therapeutic consequences can present, however. Interpretation of the initial conventional radiographs is vital to establishing the type lesion and to proposing adapted and rapid treatment. The objective of this article is to review the various osteoarticular and ligament injuries encountered in the foot and the ankle.
Concomitant talar neck fracture and Achilles tendon rupture.	A 56-year-old man fell down 1 m from a ladder and sustained a forced dorsiflexion injury to his right ankle when his foot contacted a lower rung, which resulted in the rare combination of a Hawkins II fracture of the neck of the talus and a concomitant rupture of the Achilles tendon. Clinical examination and diagnostic imaging confirmed the injuries, and surgical fixation of the fracture and repair of the Achilles tendon were achieved by means of a posterior approach. Healing proceeded unremarkably, and, at 18 months postoperatively, the patient had regained full function despite a 5 degrees limitation of subtalar joint range of motion.
Fracture-dislocation of the talus in the pediatric patient. An unusual injury.	Subtalar fracture-dislocations in children are unusual, perhaps because of the greater elasticity of bone in children. The authors have presented a case of medial subtalar dislocation in a 13-year-old boy, accompanied by a rare fracture of the entire posterior process of the talus. This particular fracture has not been previously reported in association with a subtalar joint dislocation, nor has it been reported in a child. The patient was treated successfully by closed reduction of both the dislocation and the fractures.
What are the clinical results of operated fractures of the talus?]	Our study focuses to determine the medium range results of function and radiological findings of operatively treated fractures of the talus. Furthermore we had the intention to investigate risk-factors for posttraumatic arthrosis and necrosis of the talus.
Lateral talar process fracture and peroneal tendon dislocation: a previously unrecognized injury complex.	Lateral talar process fractures and peroneal tendon dislocations are frequently unrecognized at the time of injury. Lateral process fractures were initially classified by Hawkins as three types. Type II injuries are comminuted fractures involving both the talofibular and talocalcaneal articular surfaces. The purpose of this retrospective chart review was to describe an injury complex of Type II lateral talar process fracture with peroneal tendon dislocation.
The management and outcome of lateral process fracture of the talus.	Lateral process fractures of the talus are a rare injury with significant associated morbidity when missed. Only a small number of case series' and reports are available and the appropriate management of these fractures is not really known.
Fractures of the talus]	Peripheral fractures of the talus, such as fractures of the posterior and lateral process, need no special therapy. Larger fragments with dislocation require open reduction and screw fixation. Small flake fractures with stability of the joint can be removed arthroscopically, but larger fractures should be repositioned with K-wires, small screws. Ethipin or fibrin sealant. Dislocated fractures of the head of the talus should be reduced and fixed by screws or K-wires. Fractures of the neck of the talus with anteromedial or lateral dislocation can be treated by closed reduction and external fixation, irreducible fractures by open reduction and screw fixation. Fractures of the neck and body of the talus with dorsal dislocation or subluxation in the talonavicular joint require osteotomy of the internal malleolus, open reduction and screw fixation. Comminuted and open fractures of the body of the talus are treated by minimal osteosynthesis with K-wires or external fixation. In necrosis of the talus, revascularization using iliac crest bone with vascular pedicle seems to be successful. In arthrosis cases, triple arthrodesis is the best solution.
Posteriormedial dislocation of the talus. A case report and review of the literature.	The authors present the case of a closed posteriomedial enucleation of the talus, which is the first ever reported in the literature. The patient's course is described and available publications are fully reviewed. The authors believe that in spite of the high rate of necrosis observed in talus enucleations, it is valid to attempt treatment designed to prevent necrosis, reserving arthrodesis for those cases where necrosis has already occurred or where walking is impaired.
Talar fractures: long-term results.	talar fractures are rare and potentially invalidating injuries. Traditional x-ray projections often do not provide comprehensive and exhaustive view of the talus; in order to determine the best therapeutic strategy and obtain early and precise prognostic data diagnostic examination usually includes oblique projections and computed tomography scans. In displaced fractures treatment is surgical, with percutaneous or open osteosynthesis.
Reduction of irreducible Hawkins III talar neck fracture by means of a medial malleolar osteotomy: a report of three cases with a 4-year mean follow-up.	We report three cases of a closed Hawkins III talar neck fracture in which the posteromedially dislocated talar body was irreducible even with combined anteromedial and anterolateral approaches. Our intraoperative solution was to proceed with a medial malleolar osteotomy, which resulted in an easy reduction. The combined incisions provided excellent exposure for anatomic reduction and rigid internal fixation. At a mean follow-up of 4 years, all fractures had healed with no evidence of avascular necrosis or talar dome collapse.
Treatment of osteochondral lesions of the talus with microfracture technique and postoperative hyaluronan injection.	The aim of this study is to report the outcomes of the treatment of talar osteochondral lesions with arthroscopic microfracture technique and postoperative intra-articular hyaluronan injection.
Secondary correction of talar fractures: asking for trouble?	Secondary anatomical reconstruction of malunions or nonunions after talar fractures or fracture-dislocations with preservation of all three joints aims at maximal functional rehabilitation. A corrective osteotmy or revision of a pseudoarthrosis with axial realignment and internal fixation was carried out in 22 patients (aged 15 to 50) at a mean of 9 (range, 1.5 to 45) months after having sustained a fracture of the talar head, neck or body. 20 patients were followed for a mean of 4.8 (range, 1.5 to 14) years after reconstruction. No signs of development or progression of avascular necrosis (AVN) were observed in any case. Some amount of progression of peritalar arthritis was seen in 12 of 20 patients (60%). One patient required ankle fusion 7.5 years after reconstruction, another patient needed talo-navicular fusion after 5 years, and a third required a two-stage fusion of the ankle and the subtalar joint after 18 months. Two patients underwent arthrolysis of the ankle and screw removal after 7 and 14 years for dorsiflexion deficit at the ankle. The mean AOFAS ankle/hindfoot score increased from 36.9 preoperatively to 87.5 after correction (p < 0.001). Secondary correction after talar fractures appears promising in active and compliant patients without symptomatic arthritis, with good bone stock, no or partial AVN (less than one-third of the talar body), and no infection. Late fusion with a well-aligned talus remains a salvage option in cases of progressive arthritis.
Outcome of arthroscopic debridement and microfracture as the primary treatment for osteochondral lesions of the talar dome.	The purpose of this systematic review was to determine patient outcomes after arthroscopic debridement and microfracture for osteochondral lesions (OCLs) of the talar dome.
Traumatic loss of talus: a rare injury.	Traumatic loss of talus during a compound injury of ankle is an unusual injury.
Factors associated with the clinical outcomes of the osteochondral autograft transfer system in osteochondral lesions of the talus: second-look arthroscopic evaluation.	Identifying factors associated with the clinical outcomes of the osteochondral autograft transfer system would be helpful for treating patients with an osteochondral lesion of the talus.
Anatomic location and morphology of symptomatic, operatively treated osteochondral lesions of the talus.	Historically, osteochondral lesions of the talus (OCLTs) were thought to occur most commonly in the anterolateral and posteromedial talar dome; however, new classification systems are able to describe OCLT location more precisely. A recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study introduced a novel nine-zone anatomic grid of the talar dome, demonstrating that most OCLTs occur in the central portion of the medial and lateral talar dome, with medial lesions being more common as well as larger in depth and surface area. The current study sought to determine if similar location and morphology patterns were consistent in symptomatic, operatively treated OCLTs.
Comparison of arthroscopic and magnetic resonance imaging findings in osteochondral lesions of the talus.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is widely used for diagnosing osteochondral lesions in the talus. The purpose of this study was to directly compare the MRI with the arthroscopic findings.
Orthopaedic surgeon's nightmare: iatrogenic fractures of talus and medial malleolus following tibial nailing.	Intramedullary interlocking nailing is the gold standard for treatment of tibial shaft fractures. The growing use of intramedullary nailing has resulted in an increased number of tibial nailing in daily clinical practice. Despite adequate surgeon experience, tibial nailing is not without complications if proper techniques are not followed. A case of iatrogenic talar neck and medial malleolus fractures during intramedullary nailing of tibia in a 24-year-old male is reported. It is believed to be caused by forceful hammering of insertion zig with foot dorsiflexed. To the best of our knowledge, no such case has been reported in the literature. It is possible to reduce the risk of this complication by adoption of preventive measures. 
Modified Blair tibiotalar arthrodesis for post-traumatic avascular necrosis of the talus: a case report.	Surgical treatment of post-traumatic avascular necrosis of the talus coupled with collapse often results in limited treatment options. Of those options, the Blair tibiotalar arthrodesis has been beneficial in preserving limb length and subtalar motion. The complications associated with Blair tibiotalar arthrodesis have led to modifications to improve stability and functional outcomes with rigid internal fixation. We present the case of a 29-year-old female with a history of an open fracture dislocation of the talus 10 years previously, with subsequent development of avascular necrosis of the talus. The purpose of the present case report was to describe the surgical approach and use of an anterior compression plate to augment the modified Blair tibiotalar arthrodesis.
Influencing factors of functional result and bone union in tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with intramedullary locking nail: a retrospective series of 30 cases.	Initially considered as an established salvage procedure for tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis (TTCA), intramedullary nailing indications have expanded as evidenced in recent literature. We have tried to identify factors influencing functional result and bone union.
Fracture of the lateral process of the talus: a report of two cases.	Fracture of the lateral process of the talus is a rare lesion commonly described in snowboarding injuries. Nevertheless, several conditions can lead to this injury, which is often misdiagnosed as a severe ankle sprain because of the difficulty in detecting it on standard radiographic views. Computed tomography is very helpful for the assessment of this injury. The type of treatment will depend on the size and degree of the displacement of the fracture. This injury can also lead to subtalar joint osteoarthritis. We report 2 cases of fracture of the lateral process of the talus. In the first case, a young male sustained a combined inversion and dorsiflexion strain of his right foot when he fell from a ladder. In the second case, a woman broke the lateral process of her right talus by the same mechanism when she was sledding. In the 2 situations, we opted for an open reduction and internal fixation using 2.4-mm cannulated screws. Both patients were allowed walking with partial weightbearing with a walker boot (VACOped(®)) for 6 weeks. At 1 year, both showed a consolidated fracture and had regained their preinjury level of activity. 
Osteochondral fractures of the dome of the talus.	Twenty-four patients who had an osteochondral fracture of the dome of the talus were examined by plain radiography, magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomography, and, when indicated, scintigraphy. When plain radiographs of the ankle are relied on for the diagnosis of an osteochondral fracture of the talus, many lesions remain undiagnosed. Stage-I osteochondral fractures show no diagnostic changes on plain radiographs, and Stage-II lesions are usually subtle and, therefore, are often overlooked by both radiologists and clinicians. The use of scintigraphy as a screening procedure and of magnetic resonance imaging for patients who have positive scintiscans showed that osteochondral fractures are more common than has previously been indicated in the literature. Scintigraphy should be used to assess patients when there is clinical suspicion of an osteochondral fracture but the plain radiographs appear to be negative. Patients who have positive scintiscans should be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging. Patients who have abnormal plain radiographs will derive no major benefits from magnetic resonance imaging; for all but one of these patients, computerized tomography was adequate for staging the fracture.
X-ray examination of foot injuries]	Fractures and luxations of the phalanges, metatarsus, tarsus and their joints are discussed. Correct radiological projections, knowledge of their pitfalls and a systematical interpretation are necessary for correct diagnosis.
Severe ligamentous injury of the ankle with ruptured tendo Achillis and fractured neck of talus.	Severe tendon and ligament rupture of the ankle associated with a fracture of the talus were successfully treated by surgical repair followed by cast immobilization. We suggest that the mechanism of injury was forced dorsiflexion with initial rupture of the Achilles tendon, followed by rupture of the ankle ligaments and fracture of the neck of the talus.
Fractures of the talus in children. Apropos of 23 cases]	The authors have reviewed 23 fractures of the talus in children. They propose a classification based on the radiological maturity of the bone and the specific type of fracture. Group I: Children younger than 6 years (6 cases). The fracture line separates the bone into two parts. The diagnosis was difficult, with displacement being underestimated in some cases. Associated lesions in the same limb were present in 5 cases. Five fractures of the neck of the talus were treated conservatively with excellent or fair results. One comminuted fracture was treated surgically with a poor result. In all cases treatment should aim to maintain a good tibio-tarsal joint. Group II: Children older than 6 years (17 cases). Eight cases were osteochondral fractures, two were partial fractures and seven were complete fractures. Two of these developed subsequent avascular necrosis. The relationship between osteochondral fractures and osteochondritis is discussed.
Arthroscopic treatment of osteochondral lesions of the talus.	A retrospective study of the arthroscopic treatment of transchondral fractures of the talar dome in 18 patients was conducted. Followup ranged from 3 months to 3 years; 10 patients had an average followup of 2 years (Group A) and 8 of 6.5 months (Group B). The 10 male and 8 female patients ranged in age from 14 to 40 years. Thirteen lesions were posteromedial while five were anterolateral. Fourteen of the 18 patients reported an inversion type injury to the ankle from playing various sports on weekends. One patient had a bimalleolar fracture of the ankle sustained in a car accident 18 months prior to referral, while the last patient in the series had a bilateral fracture of the os calcis from a work-related falling incident. All patients underwent conservative care for at least 4 months prior to referral. Arthroscopic treatment consisted of partial synovectomy, debridement of osteochondral lesions with removal of loose fragments, curettage, abrasion, and, in one case, drilling. For analysis of postoperative management, patients were divided into two groups, 10 with the 2 year followup comprising Group A and the 8 with the 6.5 month followup in Group B. Group A was nonweightbearing for 6 weeks while Group B was ambulatory 2 weeks postoperatively. Group A was fully ambulatory when the 6 week nonweightbearing period expired. All patients had a full range of motion at the time of suture removal (1 week to 10 days). Both groups were evaluated objectively and subjectively. Excellent or good results were obtained in 88% of the patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Osteochondritis dissecans of the talus. The late results of surgical treatment.	Thirty-five cases of osteochondritis dissecans of the talus, operated on between 1950 and 1978, were studied. Twenty-four were available for follow-up an average of 47 months later. Three standard surgical approaches were used, and the osteochondritic fragment removed. In some cases the base of the defect was drilled. Good results were obtained in 15 patients, and fair in nine. There were no poor results. It was concluded that the defect is caused by trauma; that early operation gives the best results, 12 months being the critical delay time; that drilling the base of the defect improves results; and that the sex of the patient and the location of lesion are of little significance.
Ankle equinus related to trauma, and its surgical treatment: a preliminary report of three cases.	Ankle equinus specifically related to trauma has been barely touched upon in the literature. As reported by Subotnick (2) and McGlamry (1), the short-term results are impressive. In our three cases, we have had an increase in ankle joint dorsiflexion of 6 to 10 degrees; however, our longest postoperative follow up is only 9 months. We have attempted to control these patients postoperatively with functional orthoses. We have also tried to impress the patients with the fact that the orthoses should be worn during any activity to prevent recurrent arthritis.
Fracture of the posterior process of the talus associated with subtalar dislocation: report of a case.	Although subtalar dislocation is not common in foot trauma, fracture of the entire posterior process of the talus is even rarer. The concomitant injury of a subtalar dislocation associated with a fracture of the posterior process of the talus has not yet been reported in the medical literature. A 52-year-old woman involved in a traffic accident had her right foot twisted into an inversion deformity. An X-ray revealed a medial subtalar dislocation associated with a fracture of the entire posterior process of the talus. Tomography demonstrated that the posterior process was incongruent to the ankle and the subtalar joints. The subtalar dislocation was treated with a closed reduction. The fracture of the posterior process was treated with an open reduction and internal fixation. After the anatomic reduction of both injuries, the patient recovered and returned to her previous activities.
Tibio-calcaneus fusion]	From January 1977 to August 1992 22 tibiocalcaneal fusions were performed at the Co-Operative Trade Association Hospital for Accidents, at Tübingen, Germany. 21 of these fusions healed both clinically and roentgenologically, the quality of the effected healing being stable. In more than two-thirds of the cases the indication for performing the fusion had been a fracture of the talus of the Weber/Marti IV or Hawkins III type with its associated complications. Hence, bony fusion between tibia and calcaneus is a commendably reliable treatment possibility in severe diseases of the talus and its adjacent articulations. The result can of course be only as good as the indication arrived at by the physician. In traumatology, this indication is mainly prompted by aseptic necrosis of the talus following talus fractures of maximum severity. A large number of relevant publications mentions an almost 100 per cent rate of necrosis associated with this lesion. This raises the very important question whether in case of such most severe forms of talus fracture it would not be better to aim at a primary tibio-calcaneal fusion straightway to save the patient the trouble of an otherwise prolonged course of the disease with doubtful outcome.
Nondisplaced shearing-type talar body fractures.	The majority of talar body fractures represent avulsive injuries or are associated with obvious displacement or dislocation. Minimally displaced, nonavulsive fractures of the talar body are rare and can be difficult to recognize. Delay in diagnosis and therapy may be associated with an increased risk of osteonecrosis, malunion, secondary osteoarthritis, and other complications. We present two cases of nondisplaced talar body fractures with delay in diagnosis and stress the importance of recognizing these fractures, given the appropriate mechanism of injury.
Fractures of the posteromedial process of the talus.	The authors discuss fractures of the posteromedial process of the talus. The surgical approach for open reduction of these injuries is detailed.
"Snowboarder's fracture": fracture of the lateral process of the talus.	As physicians caring for patients who sustain snowboarding ankle injuries, we have noted that fracture of the lateral process of the talus occurs frequently. The incidence of this fracture, however, is very low in other accounts of ankle injuries. We report a case of fracture of the lateral process of the talus and review the pertinent literature of this injury.
Fractures of the neck of the talus.	One hundred and twenty-three patients with fracture of the neck of the talus were followed up over an average of 22 months. Ffity-four fractures were undisplaced, 53 associated with subtaler dislocation, and 16 associated with dislocation of the talus in both ankle joint and subtalar joint. Of the total 123 patients, 21% (26/123) developed avascular necrosis, 31% (38/123) developed talo-crural and 47% (58/123) subtalar osteoarthrosis. Fifteen per cent (18/123) of the fractures united with considerable deformity, and four per cent (5/123) exhibited non-union of the neck. Out of 63 patients with isolated fracture of the neck of the talus, 65% (41/63) reported moderate or severe complaints, and 52% (33/63) complained of functional disability often resulting in a change to lighter work. Even among the 54 undisplaced cases there were unexpected numbers of late sequelae, such as osteoarthrosis, subjective complaints and disablement.
Traumatic extrusion of the talus (missing talus).	Complete dislocation of the talus is an extremely rare injury. We report on a case that was treated according to a surgical technique described by Günal et al. According to this technique, a pseudarthrosis is created between the tibia and the calcaneus by transposing and fixing the medial malleolus laterally and displacing the entire foot anteriorly. The result was considered to be initially unsatisfactory. At the 2-year follow-up examination, the outcome was considered to be satisfactory. This was attributed to preservation of motion and stability in the new mortise.
Delayed aseptic swelling after fixation of talar neck fracture with a biodegradable poly-L-lactide rod: case reports.	A 63-year-old woman complained of acute swelling and pain in her ankle at 15 months, after fixation of a talar neck fracture with poly-L-lactide rods. Roentgenographic and laboratory data revealed no abnormalities, but T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging showed a diffuse area of low intensity in the talus. After nonweightbearing for 1 month, local findings had disappeared and the area of low intensity shown by magnetic resonance imaging had decreased without surgical treatment. Although there have been some reports of aseptic swelling or synovitis after fixation of a fracture with polyglycolide rods or screws, there has been no report of such cases with poly-L-lactide rods or screws.
Fractures of the lateral process of the talus: two case reports and a comprehensive literature review.	Fractures of the lateral process of the talus are frequently overlooked and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with acute and chronic ankle pain. Early diagnosis is emphasized in all series reviewed in the literature to prevent long-term complications. Thorough radiographic evaluation is necessary to determine the need for operative vs. nonoperative management. Small nondisplaced fractures are treated with cast immobilization, whereas large or displaced fractures usually require open reduction and internal fixation. Comminution of fragments may necessitate surgical excision. To achieve the best possible results, a timely diagnosis is required, and it is our belief that early treatment has better overall results.
Perimortem calcaneal and talar fractures sustained in a military air crash in Vietnam.	The authors report on the skeletal elements of a minimum of 37 men who died in 1965 when their C-123 cargo airplane crashed into a mountainside in South Vietnam. Natural environmental processes reduced their bodies to skeletons; these osseous remains were recovered from the crash site nearly 10 years later. Among the remains were the calcanei and tali of at least 37 people. These bones, devoid of soft tissue, provide a rare opportunity to examine and document the pattern of perimortem fractures in multiple individuals who died in the same incident. This case also provides information on a range of variability of skeletal fractures that is unavailable in comparative skeletal collections, and that might be overlooked with radiography or during physical examination.
Functional outcome of surgical therapy of talus fractures]	Forty-five patients with fractures of the talus were treated operatively at the Department of Surgery in Bergmannsheil Hospital between 1989 and 1995. Of these, 21 patients were operated on the day of the accident. The Marti/Weber classification system was used: 9 fractures were type I, 12 type II, 18 type III and 6 type IV. Twenty-five neck-fractures were classified according to Hawkins (type I-6, type II-10, type III-6, type IV-3). The mean time of follow-up was 37.3 months (minimum of 12 months). One patient needed a primary and 2 other patients a secondary arthrodesis of the ankle and subtalar joint; 2 others required arthrodesis of the talonavicular joint. Eleven patients showed no complaints at follow-up. Twenty-five reported complaints only during strenuous exercise, 5 others during walking and 3 patients reported initial pain when walking. The mean time of therapy was 22.5 weeks. As a consequence of trauma, 7 patients changed their jobs. The most important prerequisites for successful surgery are early reduction and stable osteosynthesis. Residual complaints are frequently seen. The rate of avascular necrosis (8% in fractures of the neck of the talus) and the necessity for arthrodesis was significantly diminished.
