Concerted evolution of the tandem array encoding primate U2 snRNA (the RNU2 locus) is accompanied by dramatic remodeling of the junctions with flanking chromosomal sequences.	The genes encoding primate U2 snRNA are organized as a nearly perfect tandem array (the RNU2 locus) that has been evolving concertedly for >35 Myr since the divergence of baboons and humans. Thus the repeat units of the tandem array are essentially identical within each species, but differ between species. Homogeneity is maintained because any change in one repeat unit is purged from the array or fixed in all other repeats. Intriguingly, the cytological location of RNU2 has remained unchanged despite concerted evolution of the tandem array. We had found previously that junction sequences between the U2 tandem array and flanking DNA were subject to remodeling over a region of 200-300 bp during the past 5 Myr in the hominid lineage. Here we show that the junctions between the U2 tandem array and flanking DNA have undergone dramatic rearrangements over a region of 1 to >10 kbp in the 35 Myr since divergence of the Old World Monkey and hominid lineages. We argue that these rearrangements reflect the high level of genetic activity required to sustain concerted evolution, and propose a model to explain why maintenance of homogeneity within a tandemly repeated multigene family would lead to junctional diversity.
Polymorphic insertion of additional repeat within an area of direct 8 bp tandem repeats in the 5'-untranslated region of the p53R2 gene and cancer risk.	p53R2 is a recently cloned gene that functions in p53-induced DNA repair. In the 5'-untranslated region of the p53R2 gene two direct tandem 8 bp repeats are located. Within the region of these 8 bp direct repeats we have detected the insertion of an additional repeat. In order to determine a possible association of this novel polymorphism with any cancer or population, we carried out genotyping of 843 European and Asian controls and patients with various cancer types. In addition, 26 cancer cell lines were included in the study. No significant difference in polymorphic frequency could be demonstrated for any of the cancer types, although the allelic frequency in melanoma patients was lower than in controls (chi(2) = 3.28; P = 0.07; OR = 0.32; 95% CI 0.07-1.26). A significantly higher frequency of the polymorphism was detected in the compiled Caucasian individuals compared with Asians (chi(2) = 9.19; P = 0.002; OR = 3.13; 95% CI 1.39-7.43). In one tumour cell line we observed two extra inserted copies of the 8 bp repeat. The functional effect of the insertion polymorphism on the p53R2 gene transcription remains to be determined.
The AZFc region of the Y chromosome features massive palindromes and uniform recurrent deletions in infertile men.	Deletions of the AZFc (azoospermia factor c) region of the Y chromosome are the most common known cause of spermatogenic failure. We determined the complete nucleotide sequence of AZFc by identifying and distinguishing between near-identical amplicons (massive repeat units) using an iterative mapping-sequencing process. A complex of three palindromes, the largest spanning 3 Mb with 99.97% identity between its arms, encompasses the AZFc region. The palindromes are constructed from six distinct families of amplicons, with unit lengths of 115-678 kb, and may have resulted from tandem duplication and inversion during primate evolution. The palindromic complex contains 11 families of transcription units, all expressed in testis. Deletions of AZFc that cause infertility are remarkably uniform, spanning a 3.5-Mb segment and bounded by 229-kb direct repeats that probably served as substrates for homologous recombination.
Mutations in a new gene encoding a protein of the hair bundle cause non-syndromic deafness at the DFNB16 locus.	Hearing impairment affects about 1 in 1,000 children at birth. Approximately 70 loci implicated in non-syndromic forms of deafness have been reported in humans and 24 causative genes have been identified (see also http://www.uia.ac.be/dnalab/hhh). We report a mouse transcript, isolated by a candidate deafness gene approach, that is expressed almost exclusively in the inner ear. Genomic analysis shows that the human ortholog STRC (so called owing to the name we have given its protein-stereocilin), which is located on chromosome 15q15, contains 29 exons encompassing approximately 19 kb. STRC is tandemly duplicated, with the coding sequence of the second copy interrupted by a stop codon in exon 20. We have identified two frameshift mutations and a large deletion in the copy containing 29 coding exons in two families affected by autosomal recessive non-syndromal sensorineural deafness linked to the DFNB16 locus. Stereocilin is made up of 1,809 amino acids, and contains a putative signal petide and several hydrophobic segments. Using immunohistolabeling, we demonstrate that, in the mouse inner ear, stereocilin is expressed only in the sensory hair cells and is associated with the stereocilia, the stiff microvilli forming the structure for mechanoreception of sound stimulation.
Use of molecular markers to study the effects of environmental impacts on genetic diversity in brown bullhead (Ameirus nebulosus) populations.	Conservation biology needs sound biological information in order to maintain biological diversity in the face of the current rate of loss. An important component of the information needed is the level of genetic diversity within and between populations, especially for those species faced with exposure to environmental stressors. We applied multilocus DNA profile analysis (highly variable number tandem repeats [HVNTR] and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA [RAPD] techniques) and allozyme analysis to test whether individuals from historically degraded sites display levels of genetic diversity different from individuals taken from reference sites. Four Lake Erie tributaries, two impacted and two reference sites, were the sources of brown bullhead (Ameiurus nebulosus) samples. Pairwise comparison of the sampled populations demonstrated an association of decreased genetic diversity with exposure of brown bullhead to stressors using both RAPD and HVNTR analysis.
Methylation of the FSHD syndrome-linked subtelomeric repeat in normal and FSHD cell cultures and tissues.	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) has an unusual molecular etiology. In a putatively heterochromatic subtelomeric region of each chromosome 4 homologue (4q35), unaffected individuals have 11 to about 95 tandem copies of a complex 3.3-kb repeat (D4Z4). Most FSHD patients have less than 10 copies at one allelic 4q35. This has been proposed to lead to the loss of heterochromatinization and, thereby, inappropriate gene expression by position effects, explaining the dominant nature of FSHD and the role of a decreased number of copies of D4Z4 at 4q35 but not at 10q26. Consistent with the proposed heterochromatinization of this repeat, by Southern blot analysis, we found that SmaI, MluI, SacII, and EagI sites in D4Z4 are highly methylated in normal and FSHD cell lines and somatic tissues, including skeletal muscle. Like repeated DNA sequences in the juxtacentromeric heterochromatin of chromosomes 1, 9, and 16, D4Z4 was hypomethylated at numerous CpGs in sperm and in cell lines from patients with an unrelated DNA methyltransferase deficiency syndrome (ICF; immunodeficiency, centromeric region instability, facial anomalies) in contrast to its hypermethylation in non-ICF postnatal somatic tissues. Our data on FSHD samples suggest that the disease-associated 4q35 D4Z4 repeats, which constitute a small percentage of the total D4Z4 repeats, are not generally hypomethylated relative to the other repeats of this sequence. However, in individuals not affected with FSHD, the hypermethylation of tandem, high-copy-number D4Z4 repeats might help stabilize heterochromatinization at allelic 4q35 regions just as hypermethylation elsewhere in the genome has been linked to chromatin compaction.
Description of a tandem repeated DNA sequence of Echinostoma caproni and methods for its detection in snail and plankton samples.	Echinostome larval stages in the snail have a great potential as effective competitors for the control of schistosomes and adult worms can cause painful intestinal diseases in humans. Ecology and transmission of the larval stages of trematodes are poorly understood, especially because their identification in field-collected samples by microscopy is difficult. We cloned, sequenced and analysed a 192 bp tandem repreated DNA sequence of Echinostoma caproni (EcSau3A), an often discussed antagonist of Schistosoma mansoni in Biomphalaria snails. PCR primers against this sequence can detect less than 10 fg of E. caproni DNA, 2 miracidia in snails 1 day p.i., 1 metacercaria in 50 mg snail tissue and 1 cercaria in 50 mg plankton with high specificity. Methods described in this study can support the discovery of fundamental ecological principles on distribution, host specificity and epidemiology of E. caproni larvae under field conditions.
Extrachromosomal circular DNA of tandemly repeated genomic sequences in Drosophila.	One characteristic of genomic plasticity is the presence of extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA). This DNA is found in various eukaryotes from yeast to humans, and its levels are elevated by exposure to carcinogens. eccDNA is heterogeneous in size and composed of chromosomal sequences. In this study we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis to detect and characterize eccDNA in Drosophila. We found eccDNA throughout the fly's life cycle. These molecules comprise up to 10% of the total repetitive DNA content, and their size ranges from <1 kb to >20 kb. The eccDNA population contains circular multimers of tandemly repeated genes such as histones, rDNA, Stellate, and the Suppressor of Stellate. Multimers of centromeric heterochromatin sequences are included in eccDNA as well. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that intramolecular homologous recombination between direct tandem repeats is a favorite mechanism for eccDNA formation. The level of eccDNA increased following MMS treatment of wild-type larvae, consistent with phenomena observed in cultured mammalian cells. This shows mutagen-induced eccDNA formation in the context of the whole organism for the first time. Mutations in the genes okra, mus309, and mei41 did not affect eccDNA under normal conditions or following mutagen treatment, implying that eccDNA formation is different from known pathways of DNA repair.
Association of erosive hand osteoarthritis with a single nucleotide polymorphism on the gene encoding interleukin-1 beta.	Certain forms of primary osteoarthritis (OA), particularly those affecting hand joints, have a genetic component. Recent studies have shown suggestive evidence that hand and knee OA are linked with the interleukin-1 (IL-1) region on human chromosome 2q. This study was undertaken to assess the association of primary OA of the hand (hand OA) with IL-1 region markers.
An active non-LTR retrotransposon with tandem structure in the compact genome of the pufferfish Tetraodon nigroviridis.	The fish retrotransposable element Zebulon encodes a reverse transcriptase and a carboxy-terminal restriction enzyme-like endonuclease, and is related phylogenetically to site-specific non-LTR retrotransposons from nematodes. Zebulon was detected in the pufferfishes Tetraodon nigroviridis and Takifugu rubripes, as well as in the zebrafish Danio rerio. Structural analysis suggested that Zebulon, in contrast to most non-LTR retrotransposons, might be able to retrotranspose as a partial tandem array. Zebulon was active relatively recently in the compact genome of T. nigroviridis, in which it contributed to the extension of intergenic and intronic sequences, and possibly to the formation of genomic rearrangements. Accumulation of Zebulon together with other retrotransposons was observed in some heterochromatic chromosomal regions of the genome of T. nigroviridis that might serve as reservoirs for active elements. Hence, pufferfish compact genomes are not evolutionarily inert and contain active retrotransposons, suggesting the presence of mechanisms allowing accumulation of retrotransposable elements in heterochromatin, but minimizing their impact on euchromatic regions. Homologous recombination between partial tandem sequences eliminating active copies of Zebulon and reducing the size of insertions in intronic and intragenic regions might represent such a mechanism.
Double incompatibility at human alpha fibrinogen and penta E loci in paternity testing.	We present a paternity testing case in which a double incompatibility was found for two short tandem repeat (STR) markers, human fibrinogen alpha (FGA) and Penta E. Analysis of the trio (mother, father, and daughter) included the amplification with a battery of 15 autosomal short tandem repeats (STR) by using a commercially available PowerPlex 16 System kit, and the detection with an ultraviolet-automatic sequencer. The biological paternity was confirmed with 12 additional markers. Reanalysis of the trio for the same markers with different primers was carried out by using an infrared automated sequencer and infrared-fluorescent primers. High paternity index confirmed that the observed inconsistencies were due to a double mutation, which was confirmed by sequence analysis at FGA and Penta E loci. Amplification and detection results obtained by the infrared-protocol showed consistent results with those obtained by ultraviolet-protocol and a commercially available kit. This has been our first case of double mutation at FGA and Penta E in a paternity testing. The use of our approach, based on two amplification and detection formats and on the sequence analysis, confirmed the observed meiotic paternal mutations.
Paternity testing in case of brother-sister incest.	We performed a paternity test in a case of incest between brother and sister. DNA from blood samples of the alleged parents and their two children was obtained with Chelex DNA extraction method and quantified with Applied Biosystems QuantiBlot quantitation kit. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of DNA samples was performed with AmpFlSTR SGM Plus PCR amplification kit and GenePrint PowerPlex PCR amplification kit. The amplified products were separated and detected by using the Perkin Elmer's ABI PRISM trade mark 310 Genetic Analyser. DNA and data analysis of 17 loci and Amelogenin confirmed the suspicion of brother-sister incest. Since both children had inherited all of the obligate alleles from the alleged father, we could confirm with certainty of 99.999999% that the oldest brother in the family was the biological father of both children. Calculated data showed that even in a case of brother-sister incest, paternity could be proved by the analysis of Amelogenin and 17 DNA loci.
Trypanosoma cruzi: allelic comparisons of the actin genes and analysis of their transcripts.	Two allelic genomic fragments containing actin genes from Trypanosoma cruzi were isolated and characterized. One allele comprises two complete tandem repeats of a sequence encoding an actin gene. In the other, only one actin gene is found. Each one of these three gene copies encode for a complete and identical potential protein of 376 amino acids which is 93% similar with its homolog from Trypanosoma brucei. Northern hybridizations of both total and polysomal RNA from epimastigotes demonstrated the presence of an actin polyadenylated mRNA of about 1.6 kb. Actin transcripts processing sites were determined by 5(')- and 3(')-RACE. The obtained sequence data demonstrates that actin genes from both alleles are expressed. The stability of actin mRNA was found to be similar to the one exhibited by the ribosomal protein S4 mRNA as an internal reference. A time course analysis of cultured epimastigotes showed a novel behaviour in which actin mRNA steady state concentration peaks during the transition from the logarithmic to the stationary phase of growth.
Independent mutational events are rare in the ATM gene: haplotype prescreening enhances mutation detection rate.	Mutations in the ATM gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T). Many different mutations have been identified using various techniques, with detection efficiencies ranging from 57 to 85%. In this study, we employed short tandem repeat (STR) haplotypes to enhance mutation identification in 55 unrelated A-T families of Iberian origin (20 Spanish, 17 Brazilian, and 18 Hispanic-American); we were able to identify 95% of the expected mutations. Allelic sizes were standardized based on a reference sample (CEPH 1347-2). Subsequent mutation screening was performed by PTT, SSCP, and DHPLC, and abnormal regions were sequenced. Many STR haplotypes were found within each population and six haplotypes were observed across several of these populations. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) haplotypes further suggested that most of these common mutations are ancestrally related, and not hot spots. However, two mutations (8977C>T and 8264_8268delATAAG) may indeed be recurring mutational events. Common haplotypes were present in 13 of 20 Spanish A-T families (65%), in 11 of 17 Brazilian A-T families (65%), and, in contrast, in only eight of 18 Hispanic-American families (44%). Three mutations were identified that would be missed by conventional screening strategies. In all, 62 different mutations (28 not previously reported) were identified and their associated haplotypes defined, thereby establishing a new database for Iberian A-T families, and extending the spectrum of worldwide ATM mutations.
Novel mode of hormone induction of tandem tomato invertase genes in floral tissues.	The genomic organization of two extracellular invertase genes from tomato (Lin5 and Lin7), which are linked in a direct tandem repeat, and their tissue-specific and hormone-inducible expression are shown. Transient expression analysis of Lin5 promoter sequences fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (uidA) demonstrates a specific expression of Lin5 during tomato fruit development. A Lin5 promoter fragment was fused to the truncated nos promoter to analyse hormone induction via GUS reporter gene activity in transiently transformed tobacco leaves. A specific up-regulation of GUS activity conferred by this Lin5 promoter fragment in response to gibberellic acid (GA), auxin and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment was observed, indicating a critical role of the regulation of Lin5 by phytohormones in tomato flower and fruit development. In situ hybridization analysis of Lin7 shows a high tissue-specific expression in tapetum and pollen. These results support an important role for Lin5 and Lin7 extracellular invertases in the development of reproductive organs in tomato and contribute to unravel the underlying regulatory mechanisms.
Isolation and characterization of S genome specific sequences from Aegilops sect. sitopsis species.	Three S genome specific sequences were isolated from Aegilops sect. sitopsis species using different experimental approaches. Two clones, UTV86 and UTV39, were isolated from a partial genomic library obtained from DNA of Aegilops sharonensis, whereas a third clone, UTV5, was isolated from Aegilops speltoides. The three clones were characterized by sequencing, analysis of methylation, and sequence organization and abundance in some Aegilops and Triticum species. The clones UTV39 and UTV5 belong to the same family of tandem repeated sequences and showed high homology with a sequence already present in nucleotide databases. The UTV86 clone from Ae. sharonensis corresponded to an interspersed low frequency repeated sequence and did not show any significant homology with reported sequences. Southern hybridization experiments, using the cloned sequences as probes, detected polymorphism in the restriction patterns of all the five Aegilops species in section sitopsis. Aegilops speltoides showed the most divergent hybridization pattern. A close relationship was detected between the S genome of Ae. speltoides and the G genome of the wild Triticum timopheevii. In situ hybridization revealed a telomeric and (or) subtelomeric location of the sequences UTV39 and UTV5.
Genetic variation at three VNTR loci in three tribal populations of Orissa, India.	The variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) loci are robust, simple and rapid tools for genetic characterization of both individuals and populations. This paper presents data on the distribution of three VNTRs (APOB, YNZ22 and D1S80) in three tribal populations (Gadaba, Kuvi-Khond and Paroja) of the Koraput district of Orissa, India with a view to enlarge our understanding of molecular genetic diversity among these tribes and the usage of these VNTRs in anthropogenetic studies.
An unusual satellite DNA from Zamia paucijuga (Cycadales) characterised by two different organisations of the repetitive unit in the plant genome.	We have cloned and characterised a highly repetitive DNA family that represents about 5% of the nuclear genome of Zamia paucijuga, a member of Cycadales, an ancient and rare group of seed plants. The unit repeat, cloned from EcoRV digested genomic DNA, has a length of about 323 bp, an high GC content (65-70%) and a subtelomeric localisation. The DNA of Z. paucijuga was digested with various restriction enzymes and analysed by Southern blot using the cloned unit repeat as a probe. These experiments indicated that the repeat is present in the plant genome in an unusual organisation, as tandem arrays typical of satellite DNA and as dispersed elements. The characterisation of these unusual "dispersed satellite DNA" elements required a complex series of experiments using combined Southern blot analyses, PCR, cloning and sequencing. Our results indicate that most of these dispersed elements are formed by few units of the GC-rich satellite DNA repeats arranged in tandem and flanked at both sites by one copy of a 0.6 kb AT-rich direct repeat. This unusual satellite DNA organisation of GC-rich repeats is present in many species of genus Zamia, and, thus, likely represent an ancient rearrangement of the satellite DNA repeats that spread in the genome as dispersed elements.
Prognostic implications of the presence of FLT3 mutations in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.	Several studies have shown that mutations in the FLT3 gene are common events in AML, with approximately one third of adult patients harbouring either an internal tandem duplication in the juxtramembrane domain or a D835 mutation in the kinase domain. The majority of studies in pediatric and adult AML have shown that FLT3 mutations are powerful prognostic factors predicting for increased relapse risk and adverse overall survival. Some reports have suggested that loss of the wild type allele might be associated with an even worse prognosis. Changes in the pattern of FLT3 mutations between disease presentation and relapse restrict their value as a marker of minimal residual disease, and have significant implications for therapy. The optimum treatment for patients with FLT3 mutations remains unknown and large prospective studies are warranted to evaluate the efficacy of various treatment modalities such as bone marrow transplantation and targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
Phylogenetic distribution of TTAGG telomeric repeats in insects.	We examined the presence of TTAGG telomeric repeats in 22 species from 20 insect orders with no or inconclusive information on the telomere composition by single-primer polymerase chain reaction with (TTAGG)6 primers, Southern hybridization of genomic DNAs, and fluorescence in situ hybridization of chromosomes with (TTAGG)n probes. The (TTAGG)n sequence was present in 15 species and absent in 7 species. In a compilation of new and published data, we combined the distribution of (TTAGG)n telomere motif with the insect phylogenetic tree. The pattern of phylogenetic distribution of the TTAGG repeats clearly supported a hypothesis that the sequence was an ancestral motif of insect telomeres but was lost repeatedly during insect evolution. The motif was conserved in the "primitive" apterous insect orders, the Archaeognatha and Zygentoma, in the "lower" Neoptera (Plecoptera, Phasmida, Orthoptera, Blattaria, Mantodea, and Isoptera) with the exception of Dermaptera, and in Paraneoptera (Psocoptera, Thysanoptera, Auchenorrhyncha, and Sternorrhyncha) with the exception of Heteroptera. Surprisingly, the (TTAGG)n motif was not found in the "primitive" pterygotes, the Palaeoptera (Ephemeroptera and Odonata). The Endopterygota were heterogeneous for the occurrence of TTAGG repeats. The motif was conserved in Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, and Trichoptera but was lost in one clade formed by Diptera, Siphonaptera, and Mecoptera. It was also lost in Raphidioptera, whereas it was present in Megaloptera. In contrast with previous authors, we did not find the motif in Neuroptera. Finally, both TTAGG-positive and TTAGG-negative species were reported in Coleoptera. The repeated losses of TTAGG in different branches of the insect phylogenetic tree and, in particular, in the most successful lineage of insect evolution, the Endopterygota, suggest a backup mechanism in the genome of insects that enabled them frequent evolutionary changes in telomere composition.
Genetic dissection of the Kluyveromyces lactis telomere and evidence for telomere capping defects in TER1 mutants with long telomeres.	In the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis, the telomeres are composed of perfect 25-bp repeats copied from a 30-nucleotide RNA template defined by 5-nucleotide terminal repeats. A genetic dissection of the K. lactis telomere was performed by using mutant telomerase RNA (TER1) alleles to incorporate mutated telomeric repeats. This analysis has shown that each telomeric repeat contains several functional regions, some of which may physically overlap. Mutations in the terminal repeats of the template RNA typically lead to telomere shortening, as do mutations in the right side of the Rap1p binding site. Mutations in the left half of the Rap1p binding site, however, lead to the immediate formation of long telomeres. When mutated, the region immediately 3' of the Rap1p binding site on the TG-rich strand of the telomere leads to telomeres that are initially short but eventually undergo extreme telomere elongation. Mutations between this region and the 3' terminal repeat cause elevated recombination despite the presence of telomeres of nearly wild-type length. Mutants with highly elongated telomeres were further characterized and exhibit signs of telomere capping defects, including elevated levels of subtelomeric recombination and the formation of extrachromosomal and single-stranded telomeric DNA. Lengthening caused by some Rap1 binding site mutations can be suppressed by high-copy-number RAP1. Mutated telomeric repeats from a delayed elongation mutant are shown to be defective at regulating telomere length in cells with wild-type telomerase, indicating that the telomeric repeats are defective at telomere length regulation.
The roles of segmental and tandem gene duplication in the evolution of large gene families in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Most genes in Arabidopsis thaliana are members of gene families. How do the members of gene families arise, and how are gene family copy numbers maintained? Some gene families may evolve primarily through tandem duplication and high rates of birth and death in clusters, and others through infrequent polyploidy or large-scale segmental duplications and subsequent losses.
Identification of tandem duplicate regulatory small RNAs in Pseudomonas aeruginosa involved in iron homeostasis.	In many bacteria, iron homeostasis is controlled primarily by the ferric uptake regulator (Fur), a transcriptional repressor. However, some genes, including those involved in iron storage, are positively regulated by Fur. A Fur-repressed regulatory small RNA (sRNA), RyhB, has been identified in Escherichia coli, and it has been demonstrated that negative regulation of genes by this sRNA is responsible for the positive regulation of some genes by Fur. No RyhB sequence homologs were found in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, despite the identification of genes positively regulated by its Fur homolog. A bioinformatics approach identified two tandem sRNAs in P. aeruginosa that were candidates for functional homologs of RyhB. These sRNAs (PrrF1 and PrrF2) are >95% identical to each other, and a functional Fur box precedes each. Their expression is induced under iron limitation. Deletion of both sRNAs is required to affect the iron-dependent regulation of an array of genes, including those involved in resistance to oxidative stress, iron storage, and intermediary metabolism. As in E. coli, induction of the PrrF sRNAs leads to the rapid loss of mRNAs for sodB (superoxide dismutase), sdh (succinate dehydrogenase), and a gene encoding a bacterioferritin. Thus, the PrrF sRNAs are the functional homologs of RyhB sRNA. At least one gene, bfrB, is positively regulated by Fur and Fe(2+), even in the absence of the PrrF sRNAs. This work suggests that the role of sRNAs in bacterial iron homeostasis may be broad, and approaches similar to those described here may identify these sRNAs in other organisms.
Comparative study of genetic variation at 15 STR loci in three isolated populations of the Bosnian mountain area.	Fifteen autosomal STR loci (D3S1358, TH01, D21S11, D18S51, Penta E, D5S818, D13S317, D7S820, D16S539, CSF1PO, Penta D, VWA, D8S1179, TPOX, and FGA) were studied in three geographically close but isolated populations from the Bosnian mountain area. The three villages are Bobovica, Dejcici, and Lukomir. DNA was obtained from 83 individuals, and the allele frequencies and genetic diversity among the three sample groups were compared. In addition, seven of the STR loci (CSF1PO, D13S317, D3S1358, D5S818, D7S820, FGA, TH01) were used in a comparative population analysis of the Bjelasnica-Treskavica region and the Adriatic islands of Brac, Hvar, and Korcula. Although the sample sizes are relatively small, the observed variation within any of the small isolated populations is high and comparable to less isolated groups. In addition, even though the populations are geographically isolated, the STR data are similar among the populations. The most significant frequency differences were observed at the TH01 locus. Although the specific allele distributions in any untyped population cannot be determined a priori, we find support for a high degree of diversity for the STR loci in most populations. In addition, the multiple locus profile is highly informative not only for various population studies but also for forensic studies, even when specific population data are not available.
D1S80 single-locus discrimination among African populations.	The highly polymorphic D1S80 locus has no known genetic function. However, this variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) locus has been highly valuable in forensic identification. In this study we report the allele and genotype frequencies of five African populations (Benin, Cameroon, Egypt, Kenya, and Rwanda), which can be used as databases to help characterize populations and identify individuals. The allele frequencies were used to infer genetic associations through phylogenetic, principal component, and G test statistical analyses. Compliance with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium expectations was determined as were F(ST) estimates, theta p values, and power of discrimination assessment for each population. Our analyses of 28 additional populations demonstrate that the D1S80 locus alone can be used to discriminate geographic and ethnic groups. We have generated databases useful for human identification and phylogenetic studies.
Genetic analysis of a Scytho-Siberian skeleton and its implications for ancient Central Asian migrations.	The excavation of a frozen grave on the Kizil site (dated to be 2500 years old) in the Altai Republic (Central Asia) revealed a skeleton belonging to the Scytho-Siberian population. DNA was extracted from a bone sample and analyzed by autosomal STRs (short tandem repeats) and by sequencing the hypervariable region I (HV1) of the mitochondrial DNA. The resulting STR profile, mitochondrial haplotype, and haplogroup were compared with data from modern Eurasian and northern native American populations and were found only in European populations historically influenced by ancient nomadic tribes of Central Asia.
Genome evolution in yeasts.	Identifying the mechanisms of eukaryotic genome evolution by comparative genomics is often complicated by the multiplicity of events that have taken place throughout the history of individual lineages, leaving only distorted and superimposed traces in the genome of each living organism. The hemiascomycete yeasts, with their compact genomes, similar lifestyle and distinct sexual and physiological properties, provide a unique opportunity to explore such mechanisms. We present here the complete, assembled genome sequences of four yeast species, selected to represent a broad evolutionary range within a single eukaryotic phylum, that after analysis proved to be molecularly as diverse as the entire phylum of chordates. A total of approximately 24,200 novel genes were identified, the translation products of which were classified together with Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins into about 4,700 families, forming the basis for interspecific comparisons. Analysis of chromosome maps and genome redundancies reveal that the different yeast lineages have evolved through a marked interplay between several distinct molecular mechanisms, including tandem gene repeat formation, segmental duplication, a massive genome duplication and extensive gene loss.
Clustering of protein domains in the human genome.	We present a systematic study of the clustering of genes within the human genome based on homology inferred from both sequence and structural similarity. The 3D-Genomics automated proteome annotation pipeline () was utilised to infer homology for each protein domain in the genome, for the 26 superfamilies most highly represented in the Structural Classification Of Proteins (SCOP) database. This approach enabled us to identify homologues that could not be detected by sequence-based methods alone. For each superfamily, we investigated the distribution, both within and among chromosomes, of genes encoding at least one domain within the superfamily. The results indicate a diversity of clustering behaviours: some superfamilies showed no evidence of any clustering, and others displayed significant clustering either within or among chromosomes, or both. Removal of tandem repeats reduced the levels of clustering observed, but some superfamilies still displayed highly significant clustering. Thus, our study suggests that either the process of gene duplication, or the evolution of the resulting clusters, differs between structural superfamilies.
Organization and variation of the mitochondrial control region in two vulture species, Gypaetus barbatus and Neophron percnopterus.	We report the first entire mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region sequences in two endangered vulture species, the bearded vulture (Gypaetus barbatus) and the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus). Results showed that the general organization of vulture control regions was very similar to other birds, with three distinct domains: a left variable domain (DI), a central conserved one (DII) including the F, E, D, and C boxes, and a right domain (DIII) containing the CSB1 sequence. However, due to the presence of long tandem repeats, vulture control regions differed from other avian control regions both in size and nucleotide composition. The Egyptian vulture control region was found to be the largest sequenced so far (2031 bp), due to the simultaneous presence of repeats in both DI (80 bp) and DIII (77 bp). Low variation was found in vulture control regions, particularly in G. barbatus, as the probable result of populations declines in the last few centuries.
A software program combining sequence motif searches with keywords for finding repeats containing DNA sequences.	One of the most interesting features of genomes (both coding and non-coding regions) is the presence of relatively short tandemly repeated DNA sequences known as tandem repeats (TRs). We developed a new PC-based stand-alone software analysis program, combining sequence motif searches with keywords such as organs, tissues, cell lines or development stages for finding exact, inexact and compound, TRs. Tandem Repeats Analyzer 1.5 (TRA) has several advanced repeat search parameters/options over other repeat finder programs as it does not only accept GenBank, FASTA and expressed sequence tag (EST) sequence files but also does analysis of multifiles with multisequences. Advanced user-defined parameters/options let the researchers use different motif lengths search criteria for varying motif lengths simultaneously. The outputs show statistical results to be evaluated by the user. The discovery of TRs in ESTs could be useful for both gene mapping and association studies and discovering TRs located in coding regions of important genes that are expressed under various conditions of environment, stress, organ, tissue and development stage.
Association of the thymidylate synthase polymorphisms with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and gastric cardiac adenocarcinoma.	Polymorphisms in the untranslated regions (UTRs) of the thymidylate synthase (TS) gene, which may modulate TS transcription and expression, have been associated with susceptibility and prognosis of several tumors. However, their effects on the development and clinical staging of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and gastric cardiac adenocarcinoma (GCA) have not been assessed so far. In this study, the 28-bp tandem repeat and the G/C single nucleotide polymorphism in the TS 5'UTR, the 6-bp deletion (6 bp-) polymorphism in the TS 3'UTR, were genotyped in 465 cancer patients (232 ESCC, 233 GCA) and 348 control subjects in North China. The genotype and allelotype distribution of the TS variants in ESCC, GCA patients and controls did not show significant difference. However, the frequency of the 6 bp-/2R haplotype in ESCC and GCA patients was marginally or significantly lower than that in controls (P = 0.05 and 0.006, respectively). Thus, the 6 bp-/2R significantly reduced the risk to ESCC and GCA, compared with the 6 bp-/3G haplotype [odds ratio (OR) = 0.61 and 0.48, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.37-1.00 and 0.28-0.81, respectively]. In addition, the 6 bp+/3G haplotype in ESCC patients was also significantly less common than in controls (P = 0.002). Compared with the 6 bp-/3G haplotype, the 6 bp+/3G significantly reduced the risk to ESCC (OR = 0.30, 95% CI = 0.14-0.67). Moreover, the TS 2R/3G genotype frequency in ESCC patients with and without lymphatic metastasis was significantly different (27.1 versus 4.9%, P < 0.001). Therefore, the 2R/3G genotype had an approximately 11-fold increase in the risk of lymphatic metastasis of ESCC, compared with the 3G/3G genotype (95% CI = 2.67-49.74). The results suggested that the TS polymorphisms might be associated with the susceptibility to ESCC and GCA, and the 2R/3G genotype might be a candidate marker to predict the potential of lymphatic metastasis in ESCC.
Turkish population data on the factor XIII Val34Leu,glycoprotein (GP)Ibalpha Kozak and P-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 (PSGL-1) loci.	We determined the allele and genotype frequencies of three PCR-based gene polymorphisms factor XIII (FXIII) Val34Leu, glycoprotein (GP) Ibalpha Kozak and P-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 (PSGL-1) in the Turkish population (n = 126 for FXIII Val34Leu, n = 110 for GPIbalpha Kozak and n = 203 for PSGL-1). To detect these polymorphisms, DNA was extracted from venous blood. Genomic DNA samples were replicated and analysed by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. PCR products were digested by restriction endonuclease enzymes for FXIII Val34Leu and GPIbalpha Kozak. PSGL-1 was analysed by variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR). Allele frequencies of V (Val) and L (Leu) were found to be 0.805 and 0.195 respectively for the FXIII Val34Leu polymorphism. No significant difference was observed between French and Turkish populations for FXIII Val34Leu. Allele frequencies of T and C were calculated to be 0.873 and 0.127 for the GPIbalpha Kozak polymorphism and no significant difference was found between Turkish and French populations. In contrast, the difference between Turkish and Japanese populations was statistically significant (p<0.0001). In the PSGL-1 group, allele frequencies of A, B and C were calculated as 0.818, 0.160, 0.022 respectively. For the PSGL-1, although the difference between Turkish and French populations was not significant, the difference between the Turkish and Japanese was extremely significant (p<0.0001). In conclusion, a Turkish population database has been established for three gene polymorphisms.
Polymorphisms on 15 STR loci of Han population in Yan'an]	To investigate the polymorphisms of 15 STR loci of Han population in Yan'an.
Chimerism of metanephric adenoma but not of carcinoma in kidney transplants.	Recipient-derived cells integrate into renal allografts inducing organ-specific microchimerism. Circulating pluripotent progenitor cells with high plasticity for differentiation were suggested as a potential source of allograft chimerism. Whether or not these cells also contribute to tumor formation in renal transplants is unknown. We analyzed six histologically different tumors in renal allografts for the presence of recipient-derived cells. To circumvent dependency on gender mismatch, a polymerase chain reaction assay for highly polymorphic short tandem repeat marker (DNA fingerprinting) in combination with laser microdissection was applied. Pure tumor cell populations were harvested by laser microdissection after immunohistochemical (CD45/CD68) marking of contaminating leukocytes. In cases of gender mismatch (n = 2), results were confirmed by sex chromosome in situ hybridization. Two metanephric adenomas demonstrated microchimerism comprising both donor- and recipient-derived tumor cells. Two clear cell carcinomas, one transitional cell carcinoma, and one renal cortical adenoma were all of donor origin without chimerism. We conclude that except for metanephric adenomas, tumors arising in renal transplants originate completely from graft cells. The mixed derivation of metanephric adenomas indicates an incorporation of recipient-derived progenitor cells. This finding suggests that adult stem cells can assume neoplastic phenotypes.
Allele frequencies and species specificity of six short tandem repeat loci in Chinese population]	To develop a set of new markers for forensic application, the authors have chosen 6 short tandem repeat(STR) loci to study the allele frequencies and species specificity in Chinese Han population in Chengdu.
Polymorphic analysis of four Y short tandem repeat loci in Han nationality of Hebei province in China]	To investigate the distribution of the polymorphism of the Y-chromosomal loci DYS438, DYS439, GATA A7.1 and GATA A7.2 among Han population in Hebei province.
Structural and functional analysis of a 0.5-Mb chicken region orthologous to the imprinted mammalian Ascl2/Mash2-Igf2-H19 region.	Previous studies revealed that Igf2 and Mpr/Igf2r are imprinted in eutherian mammals and marsupials but not in monotremes or birds. Igf2 lies in a large imprinted cluster in eutherians, and its imprinting is regulated by long-range mechanisms. As a step to understand how the imprinted cluster evolved, we have determined a 490-kb chicken sequence containing the orthologs of mammalian Ascl2/Mash2, Ins2 and Igf2. We found that most of the genes in this region are conserved between chickens and mammals, maintaining the same transcriptional polarities and exon-intron structures. However, H19, an imprinted noncoding transcript, was absent from the chicken sequence. Chicken ASCL2/CASH4 and INS, the orthologs of the imprinted mammalian genes, showed biallelic expression, further supporting the notion that imprinting evolved after the divergence of mammals and birds. The H19 imprinting center and many of the local regulatory elements identified in mammals were not found in chickens. Also, a large segment of tandem repeats and retroelements identified between the two imprinted subdomains in mice was not found in chickens. Our findings show that the imprinted genes were clustered before the emergence of imprinting and that the elements associated with imprinting probably evolved after the divergence of mammals and birds.
Biophysical properties of quadruple helices of modified human telomeric DNA.	Telomeric DNA of a variety of vertebrates including humans contains the tandem repeat d(TTAGGG)n. The guanine rich strand can fold into four-stranded G-quadruplex structures, which have recently become attractive for biomedical research. Indeed, the aptamers based on the quadruplex motif may prove useful as tools aimed at binding and inhibiting particular proteins, catalyzing various biochemical reactions, or even serving as pharmaceutically active agents. The incorporation of modified bases into oligonucleotides can have profound effects on their folding and may produce useful changes in physical and biological properties of the resulting DNA fragments. In this work, the adenines of the human telomeric repeat oligonucleotide d(TAGGGT) and d(AGGGT) were substituted by 2'-deoxy-8-(propyn-1-yl)adenosine (A-->APr) or by 8-bromodeoxyadenosine (A-->ABr). The biophysical properties of the resulting quadruplex structures were compared with the unmodified quadruplexes. NMR and CD spectra of the studied sequences were characteristic of parallel-stranded, tetramolecular quadruplexes. The analysis of the equilibrium melting curves reveals that the modifications stabilize the quadruplex structure. The results are useful when considering the design of novel aptameric nucleic acids with diverse molecular recognition capabilities that would not be present using native RNA/DNA sequences.
Mitochondrial DNA haplotyping revealed the presence of mixed up benign and neoplastic tissue sections from two individuals on the same prostatic biopsy slide.	DNA typing was requested to investigate a presumptive cancer diagnosis error by confirming whether benign and cancerous prostatic tissue in the same presurgical haematoxylin and eosin stained slide belonged to the same person. After independent histological re-examination of the slide by a pathologist, manual slide dissection was used to guarantee independent and high recovery DNA isolation from each tissue section, avoiding carryover and background contamination. Nuclear DNA quantification performed by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed the absence of human DNA for short tandem repeat (STR) typing. Mitochondrial DNA was only obtained by performing PCR of very short fragments ( approximately 100 bp), indicating high DNA degradation. Different low frequency hypervariable region I haplotypes were obtained from each tissue section (normal tissue section haplotype: 16224C, 16234T, 16311C, 16356C; cancer tissue section haplotype: 16256T, 16270T, 16293G). Only the normal tissue section haplotype matched that obtained from the patient's blood sample, indicating that the cancer tissue section originated from an unknown patient. These results supported the hypothesis of sample mix up during block processing or slide preparation by a carryover mechanism. Mitochondrial genetic typing is recommended to exclude the possibility of carryover artefacts when low DNA content and high degradation compromise conventional STR typing.
Cancer cell line identification by short tandem repeat profiling: power and limitations.	Cancer cell lines are used worldwide in biological research, and data interpretation depends on unambiguous attribution of the respective cell line to its original source. Short-tandem-repeat (STR) profiling (DNA fingerprinting) is the method of choice for this purpose; however, the genetic stability of cell lines under various experimental conditions is not well defined. We tested the effect of long-term culture, subcloning, and generation of drug-resistant subclones on fingerprinting profiles in four widely used leukemia cell lines. The DNA fingerprinting profile remained unaltered in two of them (U937 and K562) throughout 12 months in culture, and the vast majority of subclones derived therefrom by limiting dilution after long-term culture revealed the same profile, indicating a high degree of stability and clonotypic homogeneity. In contrast, two other cell lines (CCRF-CEM and Jurkat) showed marked alterations in DNA fingerprinting profiles during long-term culture. Limiting dilution subcloning revealed extensive clonotypic heterogeneity with subclones differing in up to eight STR loci from the parental culture. Similar heterogeneity was observed in subclones generated by selection culture for drug resistance where DNA fingerprinting proved useful in identifying possible resistance mechanisms. Thus, common tissue culture procedures may dramatically affect the fingerprinting profile of certain cell lines and thus render definition of their origin difficult.
Short tandem repeat (STR) replacements in UTRs and introns suggest an important role for certain STRs in gene expression and disease.	Some untranslated sequence (UTR)-localized, short tandem repeats (STRs) exhibit evidence of selection pressure, including STR-coupling preferences, STR conservation, interspecies STR-STR replacements, and STR variants implicated in certain diseases. We wished to determine if STR replacements occurred near disease-related genes, including previously unstudied STRs as well as some STRs already implicated in disease. Among nine strong-candidate prostate cancer (CaP)-predisposing genes, three [steroid 5-alpha-reductase 2 (Srd5A-2), macrophage scavenger receptor-1 (MSR-1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor-21 (Tnfr-21)] exhibited striking STR replacements (P<0.001). The glomerular disease-related gene, CD2AP, exhibited an STR replacement flanked by well-conserved sequences, suggesting an STR-focused process. Another glomerular disease-related gene, rabphilin 3A, exhibited at least two STR replacements at the same UTR position comparing Drosophila melanogaster, Mus musculus, and Homo sapiens. Two genes implicated in blood-clotting disorders, von Willebrand factor (vWA) and fibrinogen alpha (FGA), exhibited multiple-intron STR replacements among mammals, extending STR replacement phenomena to introns. Among primates, a tyrosine hydroxylase (THO1) intron STR, previously implicated in both schizophrenia and drug withdrawal delirium, exhibited frequent replacements. Some STR replacements were early events in gene divergence. When STR sequences of closely related species were available, STR replacement was observed to be nearly as rapid as speciation. STR replacements expand the list of STR sequences that may contribute to genetic activity and to disease processes.
Fetal and placental chromosomal mosaicism revealed by QF-PCR in severe IUGR pregnancies.	A number of genetic and environmental factors are taken into account as responsible for intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR); nevertheless, the relevance of genetic alteration in IUGR aetiology remains to be determined. The aim of this study was to investigate using a combined cytogenetic-molecular approach, improved by a new application of QF-PCR method, the presence of mosaic chromosomal changes in fetal/placental samples from 12 pregnancies with unexplained severe IUGR. This multiple approach allowed us to reveal and quantify subtle chromosomal mosaicisms with less than 5% of trisomic cells even in cases in which cytogenetic and FISH analyses failed to reveal them. These are three pregnancies with a mosaic trisomy for chromosomes 7, 2 and 14; the former case presented matUPD7 and was previously described in this journal (Placenta 22 (2001) 813) in association with pre- and postnatal growth restriction. It is intriguing that chromosomes 7, 2 and 14 are known or suspected to harbour imprinted genes, so that an unbalanced gene dosage in a subset of cells during embryonic development could lead to an early impairment of placental function. Our findings indicate that extensive molecular and cytogenetic studies of IUGR fetal and placental tissues are necessary to reveal at least part of the heterogeneous genetic lesions implicated in IUGR phenotypes.
The profile of repeat-associated histone lysine methylation states in the mouse epigenome.	Histone lysine methylation has been shown to index silenced chromatin regions at, for example, pericentric heterochromatin or of the inactive X chromosome. Here, we examined the distribution of repressive histone lysine methylation states over the entire family of DNA repeats in the mouse genome. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation in a cluster analysis representing repetitive elements, our data demonstrate the selective enrichment of distinct H3-K9, H3-K27 and H4-K20 methylation marks across tandem repeats (e.g. major and minor satellites), DNA transposons, retrotransposons, long interspersed nucleotide elements and short interspersed nucleotide elements. Tandem repeats, but not the other repetitive elements, give rise to double-stranded (ds) RNAs that are further elevated in embryonic stem (ES) cells lacking the H3-K9-specific Suv39h histone methyltransferases. Importantly, although H3-K9 tri- and H4-K20 trimethylation appear stable at the satellite repeats, many of the other repeat-associated repressive marks vary in chromatin of differentiated ES cells or of embryonic trophoblasts and fibroblasts. Our data define a profile of repressive histone lysine methylation states for the repetitive complement of four distinct mouse epigenomes and suggest tandem repeats and dsRNA as primary triggers for more stable chromatin imprints.
A two-stage approach identifies a Q344X mutation in the rhodopsin gene of a Chinese Singaporean family with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.	Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of hereditary retinal diseases in which photoreceptor cells degenerate. It is both clinically and genetically heterogenous. Using a two-stage approach by combining linkage analysis with mutation detection, we have rapidly identified the gene locus and the mutation site of a Chinese Singaporean family with autosomal dominant RP.
Detection and allele-frequencies of the 833T>C, 844ins68 and a novel mutation in the cystathionine beta-synthase gene.	The most common 833T>C/844ins68 in cis double mutation in the cystathionine beta synthase (CBS) gene probably is non-pathogenic because the 68-bp insertion eliminates the 833T>C mutation due to alternative splicing. However, allele frequency and effects of the isolated 833T>C mutation are unclear.
Analysis of a paternity case in which the alleged father was deceased: single locus mismatch]	We performed a paternity test without the alleged father, who was deceased, and we found a mismatch in one of the alleles of the autosomal short tandem repeat (STR) locus D3S1358 in the illegitimate daughter. DNA genotypes of the dead alleged father were estimated from the DNA genotypes of his wife and their four children. The ABO genotype, the DXS10011 locus and the calculations using the 12 STR loci and the D1S80 locus, but not the STR locus D3S1358 suggested that there was a high probability that the dead alleged father was in fact the actual biological father. The genotype of locus D3S1358 of the dead alleged father, the illegitimate daughter's mother and the illegitimate daughter was 15 / 17, 15 / 17 and 15 / 18, respectively. PCR and sequencing after TA cloning of allele 17 of one of the children who had only a homozygote of allele 17, of allele 17 of the illegitimate daughter's mother and of allele 18 of the illegitimate daughter revealed that allele 18 which was considered to be a mutated allele had one more repeat of (GATA) within the first repeat region.
Observation and analysis on mutation of routine STR locus]	To observe and analyze the characteristic of mutation at STR locus.
The STR typing system by fluorescence labeled Multiplex-PCR technique and its forensic application]	To build the four STR loci typing system by fluorescence labeled Multiplex-PCR technique, applied in the parentage test and personal identification in forensic medicine.
Primary study on the influence of blood transfusion on the STR genotypes of recipient's blood]	To investigate whether any change occurred in recipients' blood collected at different times after transfusion with different quantity of blood.
Results from the NIST 2004 DNA Quantitation Study.	For optimal DNA short tandem repeat (STR) typing results, the DNA concentration ([DNA]) of the sample must be accurately determined prior to the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification step in the typing process. In early 2004, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) conducted an interlaboratory study to help assess the accuracy of DNA quantitation in forensic DNA laboratories. This study was designed with four primary purposes: (1) to examine concentration effects and to probe performance at the lower DNA concentration levels that are frequently seen in forensic casework; (2) to examine consistency with various methodologies across multiple laboratories; (3) to examine single versus multiple source samples; and (4) to study DNA stability over time and through shipping in two types of storage tubes. Eight DNA samples of [DNA] from 0.05 ng/microL to 1.5 ng/microL were distributed. A total of 287 independent data sets were returned from 80 participants. Results were reported for 19 different DNA quantitation methodologies. Approximately 65% of the data were obtained using traditional slot blot hybridization methods; 21% were obtained using newly available quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR) techniques. Information from this interlaboratory study is guiding development of a future NIST Standard Reference Material for Human DNA Quantitation, SRM 2372.
Tandem repeat mhBD2 gene enhance the soluble fusion expression of hBD2 in Escherichia coli.	Human beta-defensin-2 (hBD2) is a cysteine-rich cationic antimicrobial peptide with low molecular weight that exhibits a broad range of antimicrobial activity. To improve the expression level of hBD2 in Escherichia coli, tandem repeats of mature hBD2 gene were constructed and expressed as fusion proteins (TrxA-nmhBD2, n = 1, 2, 4, 8) by constructing the vectors of pET32-nsmhBD2 (n = 1, 2, 4, 8). The results showed that the tandem repeats of mhBD2 gene were highly expressed in our constructed system. Comparing the expression levels of soluble mhBD2, BL21(DE3)/pET32-2smhBD2 was selected as an ideal recombinant strain for mature hBD2 production. Under the optimized conditions of cultivation and isopropylthiogalactoside (IPTG) induction, the maximum expression level of soluble mature hBD2 (0.76 g/l) with the highest percentage of fusion protein in soluble proteins (62.2%) was obtained in the present work, which was the highest yield of hBD2 reported so far.
Integrating patterns of polymorphism at SNPs and STRs.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and short tandem repeats (STRs) differ in mutation rate and mechanism. As a result of these differences, simultaneous consideration of polymorphism patterns at SNPs and STRs can provide insights that are difficult to obtain from analysis of either marker type in isolation. Here, we use coalescent simulations to model the opposing effects of contrasting mutational dynamics and of shared genealogical history on the correlation between polymorphism at linked SNPs and STRs. Results show that polymorphism patterns are correlated only weakly despite the shared underlying genealogy, underscoring the importance of divergent mutational processes. Examples illustrate how knowledge of these relationships could aid population genetic inference, indicating the need for thorough theoretical studies.
Sequences of off-ladder alleles of PowerPlex 16 kit in Chinese Han population]	To study the sequences of off-ladder alleles of PowerPlex 16 kit in Chinese Han population and their nomenclature.
Occurrence of thrombotic events in acute promyelocytic leukemia correlates with consistent immunophenotypic and molecular features.	Although the occurrence of thrombosis in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) has been reported during retinoic acid treatment, no studies carried out in large clinical cohorts have specifically addressed this issue. We analyzed 124 APL patients treated with the all-trans retinoic acid and idarubicin protocol and compared clinico-biologic characteristics of 11 patients who developed thrombosis with those of 113 patients who had no thrombosis. In seven patients, the events were recorded during induction, whereas in four patients deep vein thrombosis occurred in the post-induction phase. Comparison of clinico-biological characteristics of patients with and without thrombosis revealed in the former group higher median white blood cell (WBC) count (17 x 10(9)/l, range 1.2-56, P=0.002), prevalence of the bcr3 transcript type (72 vs 48%, P=0.01), of FLT3-ITD (64 vs 28%, P=0.02), CD2 (P=0.0001) and CD15 (P=0.01) expression. No correlation was found with sex, age, French-American-British subtype, all-trans-retinoic acid syndrome or with thrombophilic state that was investigated in 5/11 patients. Our findings suggest that, in APL patients consistent biologic features of leukemia cells may predict increased risk of developing thrombosis.
The intragenomic polymorphism of a partially inverted repeat (PIR) in Gallus gallus domesticus, potential role of inverted repeats in satellite DNAs evolution.	We report here the molecular characterization of the basic repeating unit of a novel repetitive family, partially inverted repeat (PIR), previously identified from chicken genome. This repetitive DNA family shares a close evolutionary relationship with XhoI/EcoRI repeats and chicken nuclear-membrane-associated (CNM) repeat. Sequence analyses reveal the 1430 bp basic repeating unit can be divided into two regions: the central region ( approximately 1000 bp) and the flanking region ( approximately 430 bp). Within the central region, a pair of repeats (86 bp) flanks the central core ( approximately 828 bp) in inversed orientation. Due to the tandem array feature shared by the repeating units, the inverted repeats fall between the central core and flanking region. Southern blot analyses further reveal the intragenomic polymorphism of PIR, and the molecular size of repeating units ranges from 1.1 kb to 1.6 kb. The identified monomer variants may result from multiple crossing-over events, implying the potential roles of inverted repeats in satellite DNAs variation.
Hybridization analysis of D4Z4 repeat arrays linked to FSHD.	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is an autosomal dominant disease involving shortening of D4Z4, an array of tandem 3.3-kb repeat units on chromosome 4. These arrays are in subtelomeric regions of 4q and 10q and have 1-100 units. FSHD is associated with an array of 1-10 units at 4q35. Unambiguous clinical diagnosis of FSHD depends on determining the array length at 4q35, usually with the array-adjacent p13E-11 probe after pulsed-field or linear gel electrophoresis. Complicating factors for molecular diagnosis of FSHD are the phenotypically neutral 10q D4Z4 arrays, cross-hybridizing sequences elsewhere in the genome, deletions including the genomic p13E-11 sequence and part of D4Z4, translocations between 4q and 10q D4Z4 arrays, and the extremely high G + C content of D4Z4 arrays (73%). In this study, we optimized conditions for molecular diagnosis of FSHD with a 1-kb D4Z4 subfragment probe after hybridization with p13E-11. We demonstrate that these hybridization conditions allow the identification of FSHD alleles with deletions of the genomic p13E-11 sequence and aid in determination of the nonpathogenic D4Z4 arrays at 10q. Furthermore, we show that the D4Z4-like sequences present elsewhere in the genome are not tandemly arranged, like those at 4q35 and 10q26.
Genetic polymorphisms of 15 STR loci of Chinese Dongxiang and Salar ethnic minority living in Qinghai Province of China.	Fifteen autosomal STRs loci were analyzed from two samples of 178 healthy unrelated autochthonous individuals of Chinese Dongxiang and Salar ethnic minority groups using a multiplex PCR system. Allele frequencies distribution and statistical parameters for all STR loci, D8S1179, D21S11, D7S820, CSF1PO, D3S1358, TH01, D13S317, D16S539, D2S1338, D19S433, vWA, TPOX, D18S51, D5S818 and FGA, were determined by the AmpFISTR Identifiler Kit. The observed genotype frequencies and expected of genotype frequencies were evaluated by chi(2)-test and the Fisher exact tests. chi(2)-test showed that the agreement with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (p>0.05) was for all studied STR loci of two populations. The data in the present study can be used greatly for routine forensic application in the region, and enrich Chinese ethnical genetic informational resources.
Population genetic data of 15 STR loci in Han population of Henan province (central China).	Allele frequencies of the 15 STR loci were determined in 208 unrelated individuals from Han population living in Henan, China (central China). All loci except D5S818 were found no deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The combined power of discrimination (PD) and the combined chance of exclusion (CE) for the 15 studied loci were >0.9999999 and 0.999996119, respectively. Our data were statistically compared with the previously reported data from other Chinese population groups, and significant difference was found between central Han Chinese (n=208) and eastern Chinese (n=100) at vWA, or between central Han Chinese (n=208) and southeast Chinese (n=122) at D13S317.
Analysis of repeat units in the R2 region among different Oka varicella-zoster virus vaccine strains and wild-type strains in Germany.	The present study compared the number of R2 repeat units in six different Oka strains and in 54 varicella-zoster virus (VZV) wild-type strains isolated from patients with varicella or zoster in Germany.
Epigenetic modifications of distinct sequences of the p1 regulatory gene specify tissue-specific expression patterns in maize.	Tandemly repeated endogenous genes are common in plants, but their transcriptional regulation is not well characterized. In maize, the P1-wr allele of pericarp color1 is composed of multiple copies arranged in a head-to-tail fashion. P1-wr confers a white kernel pericarp and red cob glume pigment phenotype that is stably inherited over generations. To understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate tissue-specific expression of P1-wr, we have characterized P1-wr*, a spontaneous loss-of-function epimutation that shows a white kernel pericarp and white cob glume phenotype. As compared to its progenitor P1-wr, the P1-wr* is hypermethylated in exon 1 and intron 2 regions. In the presence of the epigenetic modifier Ufo1 (Unstable factor for orange1), P1-wr* plants exhibit a range of cob glume pigmentation whereas pericarps remain colorless. In these plants, the level of cob pigmentation directly correlates with the degree of DNA demethylation in the intron 2 region of p1. Further, genomic bisulfite sequencing indicates that a 168-bp region of intron 2 is significantly hypomethylated in both CG and CNG context in P1-wr* Ufo1 plants. Interestingly, P1-wr* Ufo1 plants did not show any methylation change in a distal enhancer region that has previously been implicated in Ufo1-induced gain of pericarp pigmentation of the P1-wr allele. These results suggest that distinct regulatory sequences in the P1-wr promoter and intron 2 regions can undergo independent epigenetic modifications to generate tissue-specific expression patterns.
Phenotypic and molecular characterizations of Yersinia pestis isolates from Kazakhstan and adjacent regions.	Recent interest in characterizing infectious agents associated with bioterrorism has resulted in the development of effective pathogen genotyping systems, but this information is rarely combined with phenotypic data. Yersinia pestis, the aetiological agent of plague, has been well defined genotypically on local and worldwide scales using multi-locus variable number tandem repeat analysis (MLVA), with emphasis on evolutionary patterns using old isolate collections from countries where Y. pestis has existed the longest. Worldwide MLVA studies are largely based on isolates that have been in long-term laboratory culture and storage, or on field material from parts of the world where Y. pestis has potentially circulated in nature for thousands of years. Diversity in these isolates suggests that they may no longer represent the wild-type organism phenotypically, including the possibility of altered pathogenicity. This study focused on the phenotypic and genotypic properties of 48 Y. pestis isolates collected from 10 plague foci in and bordering Kazakhstan. Phenotypic characterization was based on diagnostic tests typically performed in reference laboratories working with Y. pestis. MLVA was used to define the genotypic relationships between the central-Asian isolates and a group of North American isolates, and to examine Kazakh Y. pestis diversity according to predefined plague foci and on an intermediate geographical scale. Phenotypic properties revealed that a large portion of this collection lacks one or more plasmids necessary to complete the blocked flea/mammal transmission cycle, has lost Congo red binding capabilities (Pgm-), or both. MLVA analysis classified isolates into previously identified biovars, and in some cases groups of isolates collected within the same plague focus formed a clade. Overall, MLVA did not distinguish unique phylogeographical groups of Y. pestis isolates as defined by plague foci and indicated higher genetic diversity among older biovars.
Comparison of the Z and W sex chromosomal architectures in elegant crested tinamou (Eudromia elegans) and ostrich (Struthio camelus) and the process of sex chromosome differentiation in palaeognathous birds.	To clarify the process of avian sex chromosome differentiation in palaeognathous birds, we performed molecular and cytogenetic characterization of W chromosome-specific repetitive DNA sequences for elegant crested tinamou (Eudromia elegans, Tinamiformes) and constructed comparative cytogenetic maps of the Z and W chromosomes with nine chicken Z-linked gene homologues for E. elegans and ostrich (Struthio camelus, Struthioniformes). A novel family of W-specific repetitive sequences isolated from E. elegans was found to be composed of guanine- and cytosine-rich 293-bp elements that were tandemly arrayed in the genome as satellite DNA. No nucleotide sequence homologies were found for the Struthioniformes and neognathous birds. The comparative cytogenetic maps of the Z and W chromosomes of E. elegans and S. camelus revealed that there are partial deletions in the proximal regions of the W chromosomes in the two species, and the W chromosome is more differentiated in E. elegans than in S. camelus. These results suggest that a deletion firstly occurred in the proximal region close to the centromere of the acrocentric proto-W chromosome and advanced toward the distal region. In E. elegans, the W-specific repeated sequence elements were amplified site-specifically after deletion of a large part of the W chromosome occurred.
Characterization of human KAP24.1, a cuticular hair keratin-associated protein with unusual amino-acid composition and repeat structure.	In a search for genes overexpressed in human sexual hairs, several partial complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences were isolated. Screening of a human scalp cDNA library with one fragment led to the isolation of a full-length cDNA clone, which showed identity to another known sequence, termed KAP24-1 (AB09693). Bioinformatic analysis revealed that the gene for this cDNA consisted of one exon and was located ca. 86 kb away from the chromosome 21q22.1 keratin-associated protein (KAP) gene domain. RT-PCR analysis of a variety of organs showed that KAP24.1 was only present in human scalp. The KAP24.1 protein consisted of 254 amino acids, exhibited a high content of serine, proline, and tyrosine, but low cysteine content and possessed several carboxyterminal tyrosine-containing tandem decameric repeat structures. Evolutionary tree analysis showed no association to other KAP family members. In situ hybridization and indirect immunofluorescence microscopy studies using an antibody derived from KAP24.1 demonstrated specific expression in the middle/upper hair cuticle. The structure of the KRTAP24, its proximity to the chromosome 21q22.1 KAP gene domain, the presence of repeat motifs in the protein and its localization in the hair cuticle points to KAP24.1 being a novel human KAP family member.
Phylogenomics of nonavian reptiles and the structure of the ancestral amniote genome.	We report results of a megabase-scale phylogenomic analysis of the Reptilia, the sister group of mammals. Large-scale end-sequence scanning of genomic clones of a turtle, alligator, and lizard reveals diverse, mammal-like landscapes of retroelements and simple sequence repeats (SSRs) not found in the chicken. Several global genomic traits, including distinctive phylogenetic lineages of CR1-like long interspersed elements (LINEs) and a paucity of A-T rich SSRs, characterize turtles and archosaur genomes, whereas higher frequencies of tandem repeats and a lower global GC content reveal mammal-like features in Anolis. Nonavian reptile genomes also possess a high frequency of diverse and novel 50-bp unit tandem duplications not found in chicken or mammals. The frequency distributions of approximately 65,000 8-mer oligonucleotides suggest that rates of DNA-word frequency change are an order of magnitude slower in reptiles than in mammals. These results suggest a diverse array of interspersed and SSRs in the common ancestor of amniotes and a genomic conservatism and gradual loss of retroelements in reptiles that culminated in the minimalist chicken genome. The sequences reported in this paper have been deposited in the GenBank database (accession nos. CZ 250707-CZ 257443 and DX 390731-DX 389174).
The majority of recent short DNA insertions in the human genome are tandem duplications.	Nucleotide substitutions, insertions, and deletions constitute the principal molecular mechanisms generating genetic variation on small length scales. In contrast to substitutions, the nature of short DNA insertions and deletions (indels) is far less understood. With the recent availability of whole-genome multiple alignments between human and other primates, detailed investigations on indel characteristics and origin have come within reach. Here, we show that the majority of short (1-100 bp) DNA insertions in the human lineage are tandem duplications of directly adjacent sequence segments with conserved polarity. Indels in microsatellites comprise only a small fraction. The underlying molecular processes generating indels do not necessarily rely on the presence of preexisting duplicates, as would be expected for unequal crossing over, as well as replication slippage. Instead, our findings point toward a mechanism that preferentially occurs in the male germline and is not recombination-mediated. Surprisingly, nonframeshifting tandem duplications and deletions in coding regions still occur at approximately 50% of their genomic background rates. As is already well established in the context of gene and segmental duplications, our results demonstrate that duplications are also likely to constitute the predominant process for rapid generation of new genetic material and function on smaller scales.
The effects of MSH2 deficiency on spontaneous and radiation-induced mutation rates in the mouse germline.	Mutation rates at two expanded simple tandem repeat (ESTR) loci were studied in the germline of mismatch repair deficient Msh2 knock-out mice. Spontaneous mutation rates in homozygous Msh2(-/-) males were significantly higher than those in isogenic wild-type (Msh2(+/+)) and heterozygous (Msh2(+/-)) mice. In contrast, the irradiated Msh2(-/-) mice did not show any detectable increases in their mutation rate, whereas significant ESTR mutation induction was observed in the irradiated Msh2(+/+) and Msh2(+/-) animals. Considering these data and the results of other publications, we propose that the Msh2-deficient mice possess a mutator phenotype in their germline and somatic tissues while the loss of a single Msh2 allele does not affect the stability of heterozygotes.
Heterochromatin protein 1 interacts with 5'UTR of transposable element ZAM in a sequence-specific fashion.	The realization of cross talks between transposable elements of class I and their host genome involves non-histonic chromatin proteins. These interactions have been widely analyzed through the characterization of the gypsy retrotransposon leader region, which holds a particularly strong insulator element, and the proteins required for its function, Su(Hw), Mod(mdg4), and Cp190. Here we provide evidence that a similar interaction should occur between ZAM, a gypsy-like element, and HP1, one of the most extensively studied chromatin proteins. We first assayed the existence of this binding using the yeast cells one-hybrid system and then we verified it in vivo by ChIP assay. In order to characterize the interaction between HP1 and the ZAM 5' untranslated region we performed a series of gel shift analyses. Our observations confirm an HP1 co-operative DNA-binding and display for the first time the HP1 DNA target motif that, we hypothesize, should be one of its nucleation sites.
Variation in the number of tandem repeats and profile of surface protein genes among invasive group B Streptococci correlates with patient age.	The average number of tandem repeats of the rib gene (which encodes the Rib surface protein) in invasive group B streptococci from 29 neonates was smaller than that from 20 adults (6.8 and 8.6, respectively; P<0.05), implying a distinct contribution of immunity toward this age-related variation.
A functional Sp1/Egr1-tandem repeat polymorphism in the 5-lipoxygenase gene is not associated with myocardial infarction.	Arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase is an enzyme encoded by the ALOX5 gene, and plays an important role in the synthesis of leukotrienes. These are inflammatory mediators, and have been involved in atherosclerosis and other pathological processes that require proinflammatory activities. Human and animal studies have suggested a role for the ALOX5 gene in atherosclerosis, including a significant association between a promoter polymorphism and a carotid intimal-medial thickness in response to dietary fat. This polymorphism was three- to six-tandem repeats of a Sp1/Egr1 binding motif (GGGCGG)(n), and the number of repeats has been linked with the amount of gene expression. We hypothesized that this ALOX5 polymorphism could influence the risk for myocardial infarction (MI). First, we analysed the effect of the four alleles on gene expression by transfecting the HEK-293 cell line with luciferase reporter-constructs. We found that luciferase activities are dependent on the number of the Sp1/Egr1 repeats, with the three and six repeats having the lowest and highest values. We genotyped 312 male MI survivors, aged < 55 years, and 376 healthy controls matched with patients for sex, age, and ethnicity. Ninety-six per cent of the patients were smokers, compared to only 42% among the controls (P < 0.001; OR = 31.84). The 55 + 56 repeat genotypes were less frequent in patients (55 = 56%, 56 = 0.6%) compared to controls (55 = 60%, 56 = 3%). However, these were non-significantly different frequencies. In addition, no difference in MI-onset age and biochemical values was found between the allele and genotypes. In conclusion, we confirmed the effect of the ALOX5-promoter polymorphism on gene expression, but our data did not support a significant effect of this functional variation on MI risk.
Locational distribution of gene functional classes in Arabidopsis thaliana.	We are interested in understanding the locational distribution of genes and their functions in genomes, as this distribution has both functional and evolutionary significance. Gene locational distribution is known to be affected by various evolutionary processes, with tandem duplication thought to be the main process producing clustering of homologous sequences. Recent research has found clustering of protein structural families in the human genome, even when genes identified as tandem duplicates have been removed from the data. However, this previous research was hindered as they were unable to analyse small sample sizes. This is a challenge for bioinformatics as more specific functional classes have fewer examples and conventional statistical analyses of these small data sets often produces unsatisfactory results.
Tandem repeat regions within the Burkholderia pseudomallei genome and their application for high resolution genotyping.	The facultative, intracellular bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, a serious infectious disease of humans and animals. We identified and categorized tandem repeat arrays and their distribution throughout the genome of B. pseudomallei strain K96243 in order to develop a genetic typing method for B. pseudomallei. We then screened 104 of the potentially polymorphic loci across a diverse panel of 31 isolates including B. pseudomallei, B. mallei and B. thailandensis in order to identify loci with varying degrees of polymorphism. A subset of these tandem repeat arrays were subsequently developed into a multiple-locus VNTR analysis to examine 66 B. pseudomallei and 21 B. mallei isolates from around the world, as well as 95 lineages from a serial transfer experiment encompassing ~18,000 generations.
SMYD3 tandem repeats polymorphism is not associated with the occurrence and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma in a Chinese population.	A variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism in regulatory region of SMYD3 coding for histone methyltransferase has been shown to be associated with colorectal cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and breast cancer in Japanese population. Aim of the study is to investigate the potential association between the functional SMYD3 tandem repeats polymorphism and HCC in Chinese population.
Radiation-induced genomic instability in tandem repeat sequences is not predictive of unique sequence instability.	Tandem repeat sequences, classified as minisatellite sequences or partially duplicated genes, are inherently unstable. Radiation exposure can increase the instability of such repeat sequences, but the biological consequences of this elevated instability are not well characterized. To learn more about the characteristics of the instability at different sequences in the genome, we created mutant HT1080 cells bearing 8.4 kb of partially duplicated allele at the HPRT locus by gene targeting. The cells were then tested to determine whether repeat-sequence instability (assessed by elevated reversion rate caused by loss of one duplicated segment) accompanied increased forward mutation rates at the restored wild-type HPRT allele. After a 4-Gy X irradiation, 32 clones were selected (out of 500 clones, 6%) that showed elevated reversion rates even after many cell generations. These clones also showed general increases in the forward mutation rate, whereas the paired individual mutation rates did not correlate with each other. Furthermore, levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nuclear gamma-H2AX foci, which are hallmarks for DNA damage responses, were also generally elevated, although the levels did not correlate with the individual reversion rates. It was concluded that repeat sequence instability is not predictive of unique sequence instability, probably because the instability is generated by multiple mechanisms after radiation exposure.
Genetic status of a AB chimeric blood group family]	In order to study the genetic status of a rare chimeric family, some samples of A(3)B(3) family were identified by sequencing of ABO gene; flow-rSSO and PCR-SSP were used to detect loci of HLA-A, B, DRB1 genes, and multiplex amplifying with fluorescence-dye were performed for 16 short tandem repeat (STR) loci. The results indicated that two individuals from A(3)B(3) family contained more than two alleles at ABO gene, HLA-B, DRB1 and some STR loci. In conclusion, analysis of chimeric blood group by using genotyping techniques clearly demonstrating genetic status of this rare chimeric blood group promotes further elucidation of the existing state of specific genetic status.
The association of interleukin-4 haplotypes with chronic periodontitis in a Czech population.	Cytokine gene polymorphisms are known to influence the susceptibility and disease course of many chronic disorders. Recently, interleukin (IL)-4 gene polymorphisms were associated with aggressive periodontitis. The aim of this study was to test differences in the distribution of the IL-4 alleles, genotypes, and haplotypes between patients with chronic periodontitis (CP) and healthy controls in a Czech population.
Fms-like tyrosine kinase (FLT) 3 and FLT3 internal tandem duplication in different types of adult leukemia: analysis of 147 patients.	To assess the expression level of fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3), the incidence of FLT3/internal tandem duplications (ITD) mutation, and prognostic value of FLT3 changes in different types of adult leukemia.
Telomere length and adiposity in a racially diverse sample.	To evaluate the cross-sectional relationship of anthropometric measures (body mass index (BMI) and visceral fat and the adipokines leptin and adiponectin) with telomere length in a racially diverse sample.
Megasatellites: a new class of large tandem repeats discovered in the pathogenic yeast Candida glabrata.	Megasatellites are DNA tandem arrays made of large motifs; they were discovered in the yeast Candida glabrata. They are widespread in this species (40 copies) but are not found in any other hemiascomycete so far, raising the intriguing question of their origin. They are found mainly in genes encoding cell wall products, suggesting that megasatellites were selected for a function linked to cell-cell adhesion or to pathogenicity. Their putative role in promoting genome rearrangements by interfering with DNA replication will also be discussed.
Analysis of STR markers reveals high genetic structure in Portuguese native cattle.	Genetic structure and diversity of 13 Portuguese native and 3 imported cattle breeds were assessed with 39 microsatellites. Allelic richness per locus was high, with an overall average of 8.3 +/- 2.5. The mean observed and expected heterozygosities were 0.673 +/- 0.043 and 0.691 +/- 0.034, respectively. The mean number of alleles per breed ranged between 5.36 +/- 1.27 and 7.87 +/- 2.66. Brava de Lide and Mirandesa breeds had the lowest genetic diversity, whereas Minhota, Arouquesa, and Mertolenga had the highest. Significant (P < 0.05) heterozygote deficit was detected in all breeds except Garvonesa, Marinhoa, Minhota, and Limousin. Hardy-Weinberg deviations are most probably due to inbreeding, particularly in Alentejana, Brava de Lide, Mertolenga, and Ramo Grande (F(is) > 0, P < 0.0001). Based on the principal component and the Neighbor-Net analyses, Mirandesa was the most genetically distinct breed. Even though admixture was detected across all breeds (6.7%, q < 0.800), the molecular structure was consistent with original breed designations, with the exception of Cachena that had a clear influence of Barros (K = 15). Mertolenga showed substructure with independent clustering of red speckled animals. The percentage animals correctly assigned was >or=90 in all breeds except Cachena, Garvonesa, and Preta (q >or= 0.800). The results obtained here confirmed that high levels of genetic diversity exist within Portuguese native cattle and that the breeds are highly structured. Conservation measures should be implemented for all native breeds to minimize inbreeding.
Population genetics of 11 STR loci in the Upper Silesia population]	The report present the results of population studies of 11 STR loci: D16S5539, D7S820, D13S317, CSF1PO, TPOX, TH01, F13A01, FESFPS, VWA, F13B, LPL originating from samples examined in Laboratory of Biological traces, Chair and Department of Forensic Medicine, Silesian Medical University. The examinations were performed in the group of 455 non-consanguinated adults, men and women, from Upper Silesia. The purpose of the investigation was to study the distribution of allele frequencies of 11 short tandem repeat representative sample of the Upper Silesia (Poland) population, to show genetic balance in agreement with Hardy-Weinberg's law for the studied population and to compare homogeneity of the usefulness of 11 STR genetic markers for paternity testing and forensic identification purposes. Genomic DNA was isolated from blood samples and swabs from oral cavity by The Blood DNA Prep Plus kit (A&A Biotechnology) and EZ1 DNA tissue Kit for the use on the BioRobot EZ1. All reactions were carried out according to the manufacturer's recommendations (Silver Stain Detection, Promega). POR amplification was performed following the instructions of the GenePrint STR System kit using a GeneAmp PCR System 2700 Thermal Cykler. PCR products and Promega Ladders were separated by vertical electrophoresis on 6% denaturing polyacrilamide gel (Amresco), electrophoresis and visualized by silver staining (Promega Corporation). Allele frequencies, the values of heterozygosity (Ht), polymorphism information content (PIC), power of discrimination(PD), power of exclusion (PE), paternity index (PI), and matching probability (PM) were calculated using FatRec by Dudek's program and TFPGA of Miller. The concordance with HWE was evaluated using the chi-square test. The compared statistic parameters, which make an important component of research work and opinionating, show that 11 STR loci constitutes a very useful tool for individual identification in crime research and in putative paternity research.
FLT3-internal tandem duplication and age are the major prognostic factors in patients with relapsed acute myeloid leukemia with normal karyotype.	Several genetic aberrations with prognostic impact in first-line therapy have been described in patients with acute myeloid leukemia and normal karyotype. However, little is known about the influence of these aberrations on outcome after relapse. This study aimed to identify clinical and molecular risk factors for patients with relapsed acute myeloid leukemia with normal karyotype.
Influence of endothelial nitric oxide synthase polymorphisms in psoriasis risk.	Nitric oxide (NO) is a potent regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of psoriasis (Ps). The NOS3 -786 T/C (SNP id rs2070744; http://www.ensembl.org ), intron 4 variable number tandem repeat (VNTR), and Glu298Asp (SNP id rs1799983) polymorphisms, have been associated with differences in NO plasma concentrations and with the risk of hypertension (HT) and ischemic cardiac disease. The aim of this study was to determine whether the above-mentioned NOS3 variants contributed to the risk of Ps, and were associated with the risk for HT and CAD in these patients. A total of 368 patients with chronic plaque Ps and 400 healthy controls were genotyped for the NOS3 -786 T/C, intron 4 VNTR, and Glu298Asp polymorphisms. Carriers of the -786 C allele were significantly more frequent among the patients (p<0.001). Carriers of the 4-repeats allele (45+44 genotypes) were also more frequent a (p<0.001). No significant difference was found for the Glu298Asp polymorphism. None of the NOS3 variants was associated with Ht and CAD in our population. In conclusion, NOS3 gene polymorphism would be risk factors for developing Ps.
FoSTeS, MMBIR and NAHR at the human proximal Xp region and the mechanisms of human Xq isochromosome formation.	The recently described DNA replication-based mechanisms of fork stalling and template switching (FoSTeS) and microhomology-mediated break-induced replication (MMBIR) were previously shown to catalyze complex exonic, genic and genomic rearrangements. By analyzing a large number of isochromosomes of the long arm of chromosome X (i(Xq)), using whole-genome tiling path array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH), ultra-high resolution targeted aCGH and sequencing, we provide evidence that the FoSTeS and MMBIR mechanisms can generate large-scale gross chromosomal rearrangements leading to the deletion and duplication of entire chromosome arms, thus suggesting an important role for DNA replication-based mechanisms in both the development of genomic disorders and cancer. Furthermore, we elucidate the mechanisms of dicentric i(Xq) (idic(Xq)) formation and show that most idic(Xq) chromosomes result from non-allelic homologous recombination between palindromic low copy repeats and highly homologous palindromic LINE elements. We also show that non-recurrent-breakpoint idic(Xq) chromosomes have microhomology-associated breakpoint junctions and are likely catalyzed by microhomology-mediated replication-dependent recombination mechanisms such as FoSTeS and MMBIR. Finally, we stress the role of the proximal Xp region as a chromosomal rearrangement hotspot.
Mismatch repair-independent tandem repeat sequence instability resulting from ribonucleotide incorporation by DNA polymerase .	During DNA synthesis in vitro using dNTP and rNTP concentrations present in vivo, yeast replicative DNA polymerases ,  and  (Pols ,  and ) stably incorporate rNTPs into DNA. rNTPs are also incorporated during replication in vivo, and they are repaired in an RNase H2-dependent manner. In strains encoding a mutator allele of Pol  (pol2-M644G), failure to remove rNMPs from DNA due to deletion of the RNH201 gene encoding the catalytic subunit of RNase H2, results in deletion of 2-5 base pairs in short repetitive sequences. Deletion rates depend on the orientation of the reporter gene relative to a nearby replication origin, suggesting that mutations result from rNMPs incorporated during replication. Here we demonstrate that 2-5 base pair deletion mutagenesis also strongly increases in rnh201 strains encoding wild type DNA polymerases. As in the pol2-M644G strains, the deletions occur at repetitive sequences and are orientation-dependent, suggesting that mismatches involving misaligned strands arise that could be subject to mismatch repair. Unexpectedly however, 2-5 base pair deletion rates resulting from loss of RNH201 in the pol2-M644G strain are unaffected by concomitant loss of MSH3, MSH6, or both. It could be that the mismatch repair machinery is unable to repair mismatches resulting from unrepaired rNMPs incorporated into DNA by M644G Pol , but this possibility is belied by the observation that Msh2-Msh6 can bind to a ribonucleotide-containing mismatch. Alternatively, following incorporation of rNMPs by M644G Pol  during replication, the conversion of unrepaired rNMPs into mutations may occur outside the context of replication, e.g., during the repair of nicks resulting from rNMPs in DNA. The results make interesting predictions that can be tested.
A first insight into population structure and linkage disequilibrium in the US peanut minicore collection.	Knowledge of genetic diversity, population structure, and degree of linkage disequilibrium (LD) in target association mapping populations is of great importance and is a prerequisite for LD-based mapping. In the present study, 96 genotypes comprising 92 accessions of the US peanut minicore collection, a component line of the tetraploid variety Florunner, diploid progenitors A. duranensis (AA) and A. ipansis (BB), and synthetic amphidiploid accession TxAG-6 were investigated with 392 simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker bands amplified using 32 highly-polymorphic SSR primer pairs. Both distance- and model-based (Bayesian) cluster analysis revealed the presence of structured diversity. In general, the wild-species accessions and the synthetic amphidiploid grouped separately from most minicore accessions except for COC155, and were eliminated from most subsequent analyses. UPGMA analysis divided the population into four subgroups, two major subgroups representing subspecies fastigiata and hypogaea, a third group containing individuals from each subspecies or possibly of mixed ancestry, and a fourth group, either consisting of COC155 alone if wild species were excluded, or of COC155, the diploid species, and the synthetic amphidiploid. Model-based clustering identified four subgroups- one each for fastigiata and hypogaea subspecies, a third consisting of individuals of both subspecies or of mixed ancestry predominantly from Africa or Asia, and a fourth group, consisting of individuals predominantly of var fastigiata, peruviana, and aequatoriana accessions from South America, including COC155. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed statistically-significant (P<0.0001) genetic variance of 16.87% among subgroups. A total of 4.85% of SSR marker pairs revealed significant LD (at r(2)0.1). Of the syntenic marker pairs separated by distances<10cM, 11-20cM, 21-50cM, and>50cM, 19.33, 5.19, 6.25 and 5.29% of marker pairs were found in strong LD (P0.01), in accord with LD extending to great distances in self pollinated crops. A threshold value of r(2)>0.035 was found to distinguish mean r(2) values of linkage distance groups statistically from the mean r(2) values of unlinked markers; LD was found to extend to 10cM over the entire minicore collection by this criterion. However, there were large differences in r(2) values among marker pairs even among tightly-linked markers. The implications of these findings with regard to the possibility of using association mapping for detection of genome-wide SSR marker-phenotype association are discussed.
Population structure in sorghum accessions from West Africa differing in race and maturity class.	Accounting for population structure to minimize spurious associations in association analyses is of crucial importance. With sorghum genomic sequence information being available, there is a growing interest in performing such association studies for a number of important agronomic traits using a candidate gene approach. The aims of our study were to conduct a systematic survey of molecular genetic diversity and analyze the population structure in cultivated sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] accessions from West Africa. Our analysis included 219 West African cultivated sorghum accessions with differing maturity intended for a marker-trait association study. A total of 27 SSRs were used, which resulted in detection of 513 alleles. Genetic diversity estimates for the accessions were found to be high. The accessions were divided into two subgroups using a model-based approach. Our findings partly agree with previous studies in that the guinea race accessions could be distinguished clearly from other accessions included in the analysis. Race and geographical origin of the accessions may be responsible for the structure we observed in our material. The extent of linkage disequilibrium for all combinations of SSRs was in agreement with expectations based on the mating system.
Sex-linked pheromone receptor genes of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, are in tandem arrays.	Tuning of the olfactory system of male moths to conspecific female sex pheromones is crucial for correct species recognition; however, little is known about the genetic changes that drive speciation in this system. Moths of the genus Ostrinia are good models to elucidate this question, since significant differences in pheromone blends are observed within and among species. Odorant receptors (ORs) play a critical role in recognition of female sex pheromones; eight types of OR genes expressed in male antennae were previously reported in Ostrinia moths.
Molecular and cytological characterization of repetitive DNA sequences from the centromeric heterochromatin of Sciara coprophila.	Sciara coprophila (Diptera, Nematocera) constitutes a classic model to analyze unusual chromosome behavior such as the somatic elimination of paternal X chromosomes, the elimination of the whole paternal, plus non-disjunction of the maternal X chromosome at male meiosis. The molecular organization of the heterochromatin in S. coprophila is mostly unknown except for the ribosomal DNA located in the X chromosome pericentromeric heterochromatin. The characterization of the centromeric regions, thus, is an essential and required step for the establishment of S. coprophila as a model system to study fundamental mechanisms of chromosome segregation. To accomplish such a study, heterochromatic sections of the X chromosome centromeric region from salivary glands polytene chromosomes were microdissected and microcloned. Here, we report the identification and characterization of two tandem repeated DNA sequences from the pericentromeric region of the X chromosome, a pericentromeric RTE element and an AT-rich centromeric satellite. These sequences will be important tools for the cloning of S. coprophila centromeric heterochromatin using libraries of large genomic clones.
Molecular epidemiology of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in East Lancashire 2001-2009.	East Lancashire has had high rates of tuberculosis for 40 years. The ethnically diverse population is predominantly of South Asian and white origin. Drug resistance data from 1960 to 1999 indirectly suggest that no significant inter-ethnic transmission has occurred. This study used mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit variable number tandem repeat (MIRU-VNTR) fingerprinting to assess clustering within and between ethnic groups.
Genetic genealogy: history and methodology]	The review surveys the development and the current state of genetic genealogy, a branch of science dealing with the history of individuals, families, and kins using molecular genetic methods. The main milestones in the development of genetic genealogy are established: the appearance of essential prerequisites (development of DNA genotyping and forensic techniques of evaluating biological kinship); the first publications on the topic in the late 1990s; the establishment of commercial companies, periodicals, and noncommercial organizations dealing with this subject. The theory and practical applications of dating individuals back to the most recent common ancestors on the basis of Y-chromosomal amd mitochondrial DNA data are briefly considered.
Putative molecular mechanisms underlying tandem CCCH zinc finger protein mediated plant growth, stress, and gene expression responses.	In animals, Tandem CCCH Zinc Finger (TZF) proteins control a variety of cellular processes via regulation of gene expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Plant-unique TZF proteins can also affect many aspects of plant growth, development, and stress responses. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying plant TZF function are unknown. The purpose of this short review is to provide an overview of genetic and molecular analyses of plant TZFs, and to speculate on their possible molecular functions.
Population data analysis of miniSTR loci: D10S1248, D14S1434 and D22S1045 in the Pomerania-Kujawy region of Poland]	This paper presents the allele frequencies and forensic parameters of the three miniSTR loci D10S1248, D14S1434 and D22S1045 in the Pomerania-Kujawy region of Poland. Genomic DNA was extracted by a standard phenol-chloroform extraction procedure. The three miniSTR loci D10S1248, D14S1434 and D22S1045 were amplified in a triplex polymerase chain reaction with the primer sets designed by Coble and Butler in a GeneAmp PCR System 9700 (Applied Biosystems). The amplified products were separated and detected by capillary electrophoresis on an ABI PRISM 3100 Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems).The genotype frequency distributions showed no deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium expectations. The values of forensic parameters confirm that D10S1248 and D22S1045 are highly informative genetic markers, whereas D14S1434 is a moderately useful for forensic genetic identification purposes.
Intronic tandem repeat in the serotonin transporter gene in Old World monkeys: a new transcriptional regulator?	The serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) is heavily involved in the regulation of social behaviour of primates. Old World monkeys (e.g. macaques, baboons) have been used to study interactions between variation in the SLC6A4 gene and behaviour. Correlations of variation at one polymorphism located in the promoter region (known as 5HTTLPR) and variation at SLC6A4 expression levels, serotonin turnover and behaviour has been widely studied. In Old World monkeys, the third intron of the SLC6A4 gene also presents a tandem repeat, which sequence varies across species by a few point substitutions. We predict that in these species, this repeated region also acts as transcriptional regulatory domain and that sequence variation at this polymorphic locus might result in differential levels of expression in gene-environment interactions. For testing these hypotheses, the tandem repeat of Mandrillus sphinx and Cercopithecus aethiops from the third intron were cloned into a reporter gene vector and delivered to either primary cultures of rat neonate frontal cortex or the human cell line (JAr) to analyse their transcriptional activities. These repeated sequences supported significantly different levels of gene expression only when delivered into frontal cortex cultures. Furthermore, we tested in silico if such substitutions could have an effect on their binding profile to RNA- and DNA-binding proteins and on splicing. Taken together our results suggest that the tandem repeat in the third intron of the SLC6A4 gene of Old World monkeys could constitute a second transcriptional regulator as suggested for the 5HTTLPR and therefore contribute to diversification of serotonin-related behaviour in these primates.
Functional variable number of tandem repeats variation in the promoter of proto-oncogene PTTG1IP is associated with risk of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer.	Genetic polymorphisms in the signalling pathway of estrogen receptor (ER) could modify the risk of breast cancer. A variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism in the promoter of PTTG1IP, pituitary tumor transforming gene binding factor targeted by estrogen receptor  (ER) in endocrine neoplasia, has been shown to be functional, but its relevance to cancer etiology was unknown. We investigated its association with breast cancer risk by genotyping in 658 patients and 866 controls and further analysed its differential interaction with ER. We found nine types of alleles ranging from 2 to 9 and 11 repeats that form 29 distinct genotypes and 11 different biallelic repeat numbers. Subjects who carry the six-repeats allele (odds ratio [OR], 1.45; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.17-1.79), long alleles (6 repeats) (OR, 1.55; 95% CI, 1.17-2.05) or a high dose of biallelic repeats (OR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.07-1.77) were at significantly increased risk of cancer. In stratification analysis, these associations consistently manifested in ER-positive breast cancer: in ER positive, PR-positive subtype, genotypes with the six-repeats allele (OR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.06-1.90), long alleles (OR, 1.77; 95% CI, 1.17-2.67) or a high dose of biallelic repeats (OR, 1.67; 95% CI, 1.19-2.33) were associated with cancer risk; in ER positive, HER2-negative subtype, they were susceptible factors with the ORs being 1.46 (95% CI, 1.06-2.02), 2.06 (95% CI, 1.28-3.32) and 1.85 (95% CI, 1.26-2.71), respectively. Furthermore, functional analysis revealed that an increase in the number of tandem repeats enhances the binding affinity of ER. The present study provides the first epidemiological evidence that functional regulatory variants of PTTG1IP were associated with the risk of ER-positive breast cancer, further supporting its relevance as one proto-oncogene in breast cancer.
Complete mitochondrial genome of the seven-spotted lady beetle, Coccinella septempunctata (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae).	The complete mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) of the seven-spotted lady beetle, Coccinella septempunctata (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), which is one of the best known insects capable of predation, is described with an emphasis on the noteworthy composition of the A+T-rich region. The C. septempunctata genome consists of 2 rRNAs, 22 tRNAs, 13 protein-coding genes, and 1 control region, designated as the A+T-rich region in insects. Along with an unusually long A+T-rich region (4469 bp), the 18,965-bp long C. septempunctata mitogenome was the largest in Coleoptera. The A+T-rich region is composed of a 2214-bp long non-repeat region composed of 80.17% A/T nucleotides and a 2256-bp long repeat region composed of 65.71% A/T nucleotides. The repeat region harbors 32 identical 70-bp long tandem repeats plus one 15-bp long incomplete first repeat. These repeat sequences may possibly have been caused by slipped-strand mispairing and unequal crossing-over events during DNA replication.
Algorithms of likelihood ratio for discriminating full sibling from half sibling]	To derive the formulae for likelihood ratio calculation in discriminating full sibling from half sibling with single-parent participation or without parent participation.
The maize b1 paramutation control region causes epigenetic silencing in Drosophila melanogaster.	Paramutation is an epigenetic process in which a combination of alleles in a heterozygous organism results in a meiotically stable change in expression of one of the alleles. The mechanisms underlying paramutation are being actively investigated, and examples have been described in both plants and mammals, suggesting that it may utilize epigenetic mechanisms that are widespread and evolutionarily conserved. Paramutation at the well-studied maize b1 locus requires a control region consisting of seven 853 bp tandem repeats. To study the conservation of the epigenetic mechanisms underlying seemingly unique epigenetic processes such as paramutation, we created transgenic Drosophila melanogaster carrying the maize b1 control region adjacent to the Drosophila white reporter gene. We show that the b1 tandem repeats cause silencing of the white reporter in Drosophila. A single copy of the tandem repeat sequence is sufficient to cause silencing, and silencing strength increases as the number of tandem repeats increases. Additionally, transgenic lines with the full seven tandem repeats demonstrate evidence of either pairing-sensitive silencing and silencing in trans, or epigenetic activation in trans. These trans-interactions are dependent on repeat number, similar to maize b1 paramutation. Also, as in maize, the tandem repeats are bidirectionally transcribed in Drosophila. These results indicate that the maize b1 tandem repeats function as an epigenetic silencer and mediate trans-interactions in Drosophila, and support the hypothesis that the mechanisms underlying such epigenetic processes are conserved.
Influence of FLT3-internal tandem duplication allele burden and white blood cell count on the outcome in patients with intermediate-risk karyotype acute myeloid leukemia.	In patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), testing for fms-like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3)-internal tandem duplication (FLT3-ITD) and nucleophosmin-1 (NPM1) mutations can allow for further prognostic subclassification, but less is known about the effects of FLT3-ITD allele burden and presenting white blood cell count (WBC) within molecular subgroups.
A global analysis of tandem 3'UTRs in eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps.	Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is emerging as a widespread mechanism of gene regulation. The usage of APA sites allows a single gene to encode multiple mRNA transcripts with different 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) lengths. Many disease processes reflect the importance of the regulation of APA site switching. The objective of this study was to explore the profiling of tandem APA sites in nasal polyps compared with nasal uncinate process mucosa.
A mutation in EGF repeat-8 of Notch discriminates between Serrate/Jagged and Delta family ligands.	Notch signaling affects many developmental and cellular processes and has been implicated in congenital disorders, stroke, and numerous cancers. The Notch receptor binds its ligands Delta and Serrate and is able to discriminate between them in different contexts. However, the specific domains in Notch responsible for this selectivity are poorly defined. Through genetic screens in Drosophila, we isolated a mutation, Notch(jigsaw), that affects Serrate- but not Delta-dependent signaling. Notch(jigsaw) carries a missense mutation in epidermal growth factor repeat-8 (EGFr-8) and is defective in Serrate binding. A homologous point mutation in mammalian Notch2 also exhibits defects in signaling of a mammalian Serrate homolog, Jagged1. Hence, an evolutionarily conserved valine in EGFr-8 is essential for ligand selectivity and provides a molecular handle to study numerous Notch-dependent signaling events.
Incidence of internal tandem duplications and D835 mutations of FLT3 gene in chronic myeloid leukemia patients from Southern India.	To screen two important FLT3 mutations (internal tandem duplication (ITD) and D835 point mutations) in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients from Southern India and report their incidence.
CEBPA single mutation can be a possible favorable prognostic indicator in NPM1 and FLT3-ITD wild-type acute myeloid leukemia patients with intermediate cytogenetic risk.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic impact of CEBPA single mutation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with intermediate cytogenetic risk. CEBPA single and double mutations were detected in 11 (9.7%) and 17 (15.1%) of 113 NPM1 wild-type patients, but no CEBPA mutations were detected in a group of 44 NPM1 mutated patients. Among patients with NPM1/FLT3-ITD wild-type, those with CEBPA double mutations (P=0.013 and 0.007 for overall survival and relapse-free survival, respectively) or a single mutation (P=0.039 and 0.020 for overall survival and relapse-free survival, respectively) demonstrated a favorable prognosis compared with CEBPA wild-type patients. Subsequent multivariate analysis confirmed the favorable prognostic impact of CEBPA single and double mutations. Despite the low statistical power of this study due to the small number of patients, our preliminary data suggest that CEBPA single mutation may be associated with favorable clinical outcomes in NPM1/FLT3-ITD wild-type AML patients with intermediate cytogenetic risk. 
Associations between age, cytogenetics, FLT3-ITD, and marrow leukemia cells identified by flow cytometry.	To explore the relationships between age, cytogenetic subgroups, molecular markers, and cells with leukemic aberrant immunophenotype in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Optimization of standard in-house 24-locus variable-number tandem-repeat typing for Mycobacterium tuberculosis and its direct application to clinical material.	Variable-number tandem-repeat (VNTR) typing with a panel of 24 loci is the current gold standard in the molecular typing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex isolates. However, because of technical problems, a part of the loci often cannot be amplified by multiplex PCRs. Therefore, a considerable number of single-locus PCRs have to be performed for the loci with missing results, which impairs the laboratory work flow. Therefore, the original in-house method described by Supply et al. in 2006 was reevaluated. We modified seven primers and the PCR master mixture and obtained a strongly optimized in-house 24-locus VNTR typing method. The percentage of instantly complete 24-locus VNTR patterns detected in the routine flow of typing activities increased to 84.7% from the 72.3% obtained with the typing conducted with the commercially available Genoscreen MIRU-VNTR typing kit. The analytical sensitivity of the optimized in-house method was assessed by serial dilutions of M. tuberculosis in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. A 1:10 dilution of the different strains tested was the lowest dilution for the detection of a complete 24-locus VNTR pattern. The optimized in-house 24-locus VNTR typing method will reduce the turnaround time of typing significantly and also the financial burden of these activities. 
A novel tescalcin-sodium/hydrogen exchange axis underlying sorafenib resistance in FLT3-ITD+ AML.	Internal tandem duplication (ITD) of fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is associated with inferior clinical prognosis. Sorafenib is effective in clearing leukemic blasts in chemorefractory FLT3-ITD(+) AML, but leukemia progression invariably occurs. Mechanisms of drug resistance are not completely understood. We hypothesized that a gene encoding tescalcin (TESC), known to be upregulated at leukemia progression during continuous sorafenib treatment and activate an Na(+)/H(+) exchanger type-1 (NHE1), may underlie tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance. TESC was highly expressed in FLT3-ITD(+) AML lines MOLM-13 and MV4-11, and its knockdown by small-interfering RNA lowered intracellular pH (pHi) and induced apoptosis. The results were recapitulated by treatment with an NHE1 inhibitor, 5-(N,N-hexamethylene) amiloride (HMA). Induction of sorafenib resistance in the MOLM-13 cell line (M13-RE) significantly increased its sensitivity to HMA. The later also enhanced suppression of FLT3 signaling by sorafenib in otherwise resistant cell lines. HMA treatment of MOLM-13 and MV4-11 as well as primary FLT3-ITD(+) AML cells significantly reduced leukemia initiation in anti-CD122-primed NOD/SCID mouse xenotransplantation. These observations provided novel information about the pathogenetic role of a TESC-NHE1-pHi axis in mediating sorafenib resistance in AML. 
Association of thymidylate synthase 5'-UTR 28bp tandem repeat and serine hydroxymethyltransfarase C1420T polymorphisms with susceptibility to acute leukemia.	The current study was aimed to elucidate the association of thymidylate synthase (TYMS) 5'- UTR 28bp tandem repeat and cytosolic serine hydroxymethyltransferase (cSHMT) C1420T polymorphisms with acute leukemia in South Indian subjects. A total of 812 subjects [523 healthy controls, 148 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cases and 141 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases] were screened for TYMS 5'-UTR 28bp tandem repeat and cSHMT C1420T using PCR-AFLP and PCR-with confronting two-pair primers (CTPP) approaches. TYMS 5'-UTR 2R allele frequencies of controls, ALL and AML cases were 35.3%, 28.0% and 30.1% respectively. This polymorphism conferred protection against ALL (OR: 0.71, 95%CI: 0.53-0.96) while showing no statistically significant association with AML (OR: 0.79, 95%CI: 0.58, 1.07). The cSHMT variant allele (T-) frequencies of ALL and AML cases (6.42% and 5.68% respectively) were significantly lower compared to controls (58.3%). This polymorphism conferred protection against ALL (OR: 0.049, 95%CI: 0.029-0.081) and AML (OR: 0.043, 95%CI: 0.025-0.074). The TYMS 5'-UTR 2R2R genotype was associated with a lower total leukocyte count, smaller percentage of blasts, and more adequate platelet count compared to 2R3R and 3R3R genotypes in ALL cases. No such genotype-dependent differences were observed in AML cases. ALL cases carrying the cSHMT C1420T polymorphism showed higher disease free survival compared to those with the wild genotype. To conclude, the TYMS 5'-UTR 28bp tandem repeat reduces risk for ALL while cSHMT C1420T reduces risk for both ALL and AML. Both also influence disease progression in ALL.
Population structure among mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Colombia.	Phylogeographic composition of M. tuberculosis populations reveals associations between lineages and human populations that might have implications for the development of strategies to control the disease. In Latin America, lineage 4 or the Euro-American, is predominant with considerable variations among and within countries. In Colombia, although few studies from specific localities have revealed differences in M. tuberculosis populations, there are still areas of the country where this information is lacking, as is a comparison of Colombian isolates with those from the rest of the world.
Identification and semi-quantitation of Ostertagia ostertagi eggs by enzymatic amplification of ITS-1 sequences.	A region within the first internal transcribed spacer (ITS-1) of the ribosomal DNA repeat of Ostertagia ostertagi has been identified that is 408 base pairs (bp) in length and is comprised of a 2 x 204 bp repeat. Universal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers which span this region, as well as a portion of the 5.8S rDNA, generate a 1011 bp fragment using genomic DNA from O. ostertagi. However, these same primers generate only a 600 bp (approximate) fragment using DNA from Haemonchus contortus, Cooperia oncophora and Oesophagostomum radiatum, as well as other species within the genus Ostertagia. When DNA samples derived from adult parasites of the different genera were mixed and simultaneously amplified, the O. ostertagi component could be identified within the mixed DNA populations. Furthermore, a correlation was observed between relative fluorescence intensities of the 1011 bp and the 600 bp PCR fragments and the percentage of O. ostertagi DNA within a mixture of parasite DNAs. A similar high correlation was obtained between the percentage of O. ostertagi DNA and percent O. ostertagi eggs in feces containing eggs of other nematode genera. This resulted in the generation of a protocol that can determine the percentage of O. ostertagi eggs within a mixed population of gastrointestinal nematode eggs. Results indicate a detection equivalent to 0.05 eggs.
Genetic variation at the STR loci D12S391 and CSF1PO in four populations from Austria, Italy, Egypt and Yemen.	The short tandem repeat systems (STRs) D12S391 and CSF1P0 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on blood samples from 100 to 158 unrelated Austrians, Italians, Yemenians and Egyptians. The samples were analyzed by both native and denaturing electrophoresis and two primer pairs were tested for the CSF1PO locus. Except for the CSF1PO data on the Egyptians, no deviations from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium were detected. For D12S391, no significant differences were found between the two Arab populations and between the two European populations, but the differences between both Arab populations and the Italians were significant. For CSF1PO, differences were only observed between the Yemenians and all three other populations. No evidence of linkage disequilibrium between the two STRs was found. The observation of a D12S391 allele consisting of only 14 repeats was confirmed by sequencing.
