Flavonoids and tannins: plant-based antioxidants with vitamin character.	Persistent activation of the neuroendocrine stress axis is the major cause of a continuous catabolic alteration of the metabolism. This often causes an oxidative stress situation with increased release of O2 and NO radicals and pro-inflammatory cytokines. For the correction of these metabolic states, an adequate supply of plant-based antioxidants, especially flavonoids and tannins, is indicated. These are plant-based polyphenols which, like vitamins cannot be synthesized by the animal organism. Vitamin E in combination with vitamin C and beta-carotene are currently considered worldwide as the standard antioxidative therapy. However, it has recently been shown that, depending on the iron status of the recipient, pharmacological doses of these vitamins sometimes have beneficial, but often also no effect or harmful effects, so that, for a more reliable antoxidative action, adequate dietary supply of a mixture of flavonoids and tannins seems preferable.
Evidence of species interactions within an ectomycorrhizal fungal community.	Ectomycorrhizal fungal communities can be structured by abiotic and biotic factors. Here, we present evidence for community structuring by species interactions. We sampled ectomycorrhizas and forest floor seven times during a 13-month period. The presence of various ectomycorrhizal fungal species was determined for each sample, and species co-occurrence analyses were performed. For both ectomycorrhizas and forest floor samples there was significantly less co-occurrence among species within the community than expected by chance, mostly because of negative associations involving Cenococcum geophilum or Clavulina cinerea. For some species pairs, there was significantly more co-occurrence than expected by chance. Both nitrogen and tannin additions to the forest floor altered some interactions among species. The causes of these nonrandom distributions are currently unknown. Future investigations on competition, antibiosis, parasitism and facilitation among ectomycorrhizal fungal species appear to be warranted.
A modified method for the detection of microbial proteases on agar plates using tannic acid.	In routine assay for the screening of microbes producing proteases, 10% trichloroaceticacid (TCA) is flooded on the milk agar plates after inoculation and required incubation to precipitate the protein. However, the clarity of the hydrolyzed zone is not very sharp and distinct. We herein present an improved assay for detecting the presence of extracellular protease from microorganisms on agar plates. In this method 10% tannic acid is flooded on the milk agar plate (in place of, TCA) to observe the zone of hydrolysis. Tannic acid sharply increases the colour intensity of the plate, as it favours the precipitation of the unhydrolyzed protein in the plate, thereby improving the contrast between the intact zones and the enzymatic lyses zones of the substrate. Our results indicate that this method is useful to detect extracellular proteases produced by both fungi as well as bacteria. The method used in the present study is sensitive, and can be easily performed for screening of large number of microbial cultures. This is the first report on the use of tannic acid for the detection of microbial proteases.
Imaging plasmodesmata.	At only 50 nm in diameter, plasmodesmata (PD) are below the limit of resolution of conventional light microscopy. Consequently, much of our current interpretation of the substructure of PD is derived from transmission electron microscopy. However, PD can be imaged with alternative techniques, including field emission scanning electron microscopy and 'super-resolution' imaging approaches such as 3D-structured illumination microscopy. This review considers the methods currently available for studying PD and focuses on the boundary between light- and electron-based imaging approaches.
In vitro screening of selected feed additives, plant essential oils and plant extracts for rumen methane mitigation.	Ruminants produce large quantities of methane in their rumen as a by-product of microbial digestion of feed. Antibiotics are added to ruminant feed to reduce wasteful production of methane; however, this practice has some downsides. A search for safer and natural feed additives with anti-methanogenic properties is under way. The objective of this research was to examine selected feed additives, plant essential oils and plant extracts for their anti-methanogenic potential in the rumen using an in vitro batch fermentation system.
Dual effect of tannic acid on the preservation and ultrastructure of phosphatidyl choline vesicles.	The use of tannic acid has been proposed to improve the preservation of phospholipids in tissues. We investigated the effects of tannic acid on the preservation of small unilamellar vesicles, prepared from sonicated aqueous suspensions of phospholipids. With cryo-electron microscopy it is demonstrated that small unilamellar vesicles are formed after sonication of the phospholipid suspensions. Fixation of vesicles without tannic acid results in extraction of the phospholipids during dehydration and embedding. Fixation of vesicles containing phosphatidyl choline with tannic acid, with or without glutaraldehyde, results in a fast (within a second) aggregation of the vesicles and the resulting sediment can be dehydrated and embedded when a postfixation in osmium tetroxide is carried out. Small unilamellar vesicles fixed in this way are retrieved in thin sections as multilamellar vesicles with a periodicity of about 5 nm for dimyristoylphosphatidyl choline and about 6 nm for dioleoylphosphatidyl choline. By using 14C-phosphatidyl choline it was also demonstrated that tannic acid prevents to a large extent the extraction of phosphatidyl choline during fixation, dehydration and embedding. This dual effect of tannic acid on phosphatidyl choline, aggregation and fixation, should be considered when using tannic acid in tissue preparation.
The origins of tannins and flavonoids in black-wattle barks and heartwoods, and their associated "non-tannin" components.	1. The distributions of flavonoid, carbohydrate, amino acid and imino acid components in the leaves, twig bark, stem bark, root bark and heartwoods of the black-wattle tree were compared by paper chromatography after their isolation from specific portions of the tree. 2. Wattle leaves contain mainly myricitrin, (+)-gallocatechin, an unknown myricetin glycoside and leuco-delphinidin tannins, together with smaller amounts of (+)-catechin, quercitrin and other flavonol glycosides. These are prominent in the twig bark, but decline progressively with age in the stem bark and are absent from root bark. 3. The non-phenolic components of the mature stem bark were shown to be (+)-pinitol, sucrose, glucose, fructose, l(-)-pipecolic acid, trans-4-hydroxy-l(-)-pipecolic acid, alpha-alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, l(-)-proline, serine, a ;steroid' alcohol and a long-chain beta-diketone. 4. Wattle bark and heartwood ;tannins' consist of the analogues of closely related prototypes with common origins in the vascular tissues of the bark. Leaf ;tannins' are superimposed on the bark components mainly during the initial stages of bark growth. 5. Origins of the pipecolic acids and the transformations of carbohydrates in the sap- and heart-woods are discussed.
Adhesiveness of glass ionomer cement containing tannin-fluoride preparation (HY agent) to dentin--an evaluation of adding various ratios of HY agent and combination with application diammine silver fluoride.	We bonded a glass ionomer cement (GIC) containing various amounts of incorporated tannin-fluoride preparation (HY agent) to bovine dentin and investigated the effect of the ratio of incorporated preparations and the changes in bond strength over time. HY agent was incorporated into the powder at 0% (HY0), 1.5% (HY1.5), 5.0% (HY5), and 10.0% (HY10) by weight. The shear bond strength and percent of the cohesive failure were measured. Similar tests were performed on samples where diammine silver fluoride was applied to the dentin prior to placing the cement. It was found that the bond strength on the first day was increased by incorporating 1.5% of the HY agent in the GIC. The combined use of diammine silver fluoride increased the bond strength of the GIC.
Clinical studies on marginal gingiva around abutment tooth (Part 3). Effect of tannin-fluoride preparation on gingival health.	It was examined whether the tannin-fluoride preparation (HY preparation), which might have a caries-reductive, plaque inhibiting and astringent action, could reduce the incidence of gingival inflammation around abutment teeth. Zinc oxide eugenol cement mixed with the HY preparation was packed in the cavity prepared in the resin base facing the abutment tooth. Gingival crevicular fluid (Periotron units:GCF), gingival index (GI), plaque index (PlI) and probing depth around the abutment teeth were measured over a 3 month period. The following results were obtained: 1. GCF decreased at month 1 and showed low values at months 2 and 3. 2. GI showed a decreasing tendency. 3. PlI and probing depth did not show obvious changes. These results indicate that the tannin-fluoride preparation reduces gingival inflammation around abutment teeth.
