Giant cell tumor of the intermediate cuneiform. A case report.	Although it has yet to be determined which surgical procedure provides the least chance for recurrence, surgical treatment remains the preferred therapy for giant cell tumors of bone. Few cases of giant cell tumor of the tarsus have been reported in the literature, with less than 10 of these cases occurring in the cuneiforms. When the extent of the tumor is questionable, definitive radiologic techniques should be used to aid in the selection of the most appropriate surgical procedure. Follow-up radiographic examination is critical to ensure that the patient remains tumor free. Yearly chest x-rays are recommended to rule out pulmonary metastasis. Although giant cell tumors represent only 5% to 8% of all benign primary osseous neoplasms of the foot, they have the potential to undergo malignant transformation, increasing the morbidity and mortality to the patient. Giant cell tumors of bone are locally aggressive, often occurring adjacent to articular surfaces, and usually are large when diagnosed. It is essential for the surgeon to plan a treatment that not only minimizes the chance of recurrence, but also attempts to preserve function of the involved part.
Arthroscopic tarsometatarsal (Lisfranc) arthrodesis.	We describe an arthroscopic approach of tarsometatarsal arthrodesis for post-traumatic arthritis. Five tarsometatarsal portals (medial, P1-2, P2-3, P3-4, P4-5) are identified at the junctional points between the metatarsals by means of image intensifier. The first metatarsocuneiform joint is approached through the medial and P1-2 portal. Articular cartilage is denuded and micro-fracture of subchondral bone is performed with an arthroscopic awl. The second metatarsocuneiform joint is approached through the P1-2 and P2-3 portals and the third metatarsocuneiform joint is approached through the P2-3 and P3-4 portals. The articular surfaces are prepared for arthrodesis. The articulations are kept in desired position and transfixed with 4.0 mm cannulated screws. The fourth and fifth metatarsocuboid articulations are rarely included in the procedure. Arthroscopic arthrodesis or tendon arthroplasty of the lateral column can be performed through the P3-4 and P4-5 portals.
Influence of tendon transfer site on moment arms of the flexor digitorum longus muscle.	Adult acquired flatfoot is a common condition that leads to significant morbidity. Along with bony procedures to operatively treat this condition, transfer of the flexor digitorum longus (FDL) tendon to the medial cuneiform or navicular is routinely performed. The goal of this tendon transfer is to increase the capacity of the FDL to invert the hindfoot and control the transverse tarsal joints. However, it is not known whether this biomechanical goal is met or whether one transfer site produces a larger mechanical advantage compared to another site. The purpose of this study was to calculate FDL muscle moment arms at the hindfoot with two clinically relevant transfer locations to quantify the change in mechanical advantage of the FDL after tendon transfer.
Lateral and medial plantar pressures after split versus whole anterior tibialis tendon transfer.	If whole and split transfer of the anterior tibialis tendon (SPLATT) do not differ in balancing the forefoot, whole tendon transfer would provide a simpler alternative as part of treatment of an equinovarus deformity. We hypothesized that no significant differences in percent plantar lateral forefoot pressures would be observed between split and whole tendon transfer. We used a spastic model to test the hypothesis that overcorrection would not occur with whole tendon transfer.
Mitek Anchor System: a new technique for tenodesis and ligamentous repair of the foot and ankle.	The authors present an alternative method for securing tendon and ligaments to bone, utilizing the Mitek Anchor System. The description of the Mitek system and technique of application is presented. Technical simplicity and ease of adaptability within the foot and ankle are distinct advantages of this System.
Arthroscopic debridement of the talonavicular joint using dorsomedial and dorsolateral portals: a cadaveric study of safety and access.	The purpose of this study was to examine the safety and access talonavicular arthroscopy provides for the purpose of arthrodesis through dorsomedial and dorsolateral portals in a cadaveric model.
Correction of severe foot deformities using the Taylor spatial frame.	This study was conducted to evaluate the treatment of severe foot deformities using the Taylor spatial frame.
Fusion of talonavicular and naviculocuneiform joints for the treatment of M端ller-Weiss disease.	M端ller-Weiss disease is a rare spontaneous osteonecrosis of the tarsal and navicular bones in adults. From April 2008 to April 2011, we treated 7 patients with M端ller-Weiss disease by surgical fusion of the talonavicular and naviculocuneiform joints with tricortical autologous iliac crest block fixated by screws and plate. Preoperative and postoperative clinical outcomes were evaluated with the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society ankle-hindfoot scale. The median follow-up time was 22 (range 3 to 38) months. All of the operated feet fused solidly. The median time for solid fusion was 13 (range 12 to 16) weeks. The median American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society ankle-hindfoot score improved from 49 (range 15 to 66) points preoperatively to 82 (range 68 to 87) points at last follow-up. The results suggest that this type of fusion is an effective surgical treatment for M端ller-Weiss disease.
CT measurement of range of motion of ankle and subtalar joints following two lateral column lengthening procedures.	Lateral column lengthening (LCL) has become an accepted procedure for the operative treatment of the flexible flatfoot deformity. Hindfoot arthrodesis via a calcaneocuboid distraction arthrodesis (CCDA) has been considered a less favourable surgical option than the anterior open wedge calcaneal distraction osteotomy (ACDO), as CCDA has been associated with reduced hindfoot joint motion postoperatively. The ankle and subtalar joint ranges of motion were measured in patients who underwent an ACDO or CCDA procedure for flatfoot deformity.
Combination of first metatarsophalangeal joint arthrodesis and proximal correction for severe hallux valgus deformity.	Arthrodesis of the first metatarso-phalangeal (MTP-1) joint is a widely accepted procedure for the treatment of hallux valgus in patients with MTP-1 degeneration, severe or recurrent deformity, or inflammatory arthritis. This study aimed to evaluate if an additional more proximal correction was beneficial in cases with a severely increased intermetatarsal 1-2 angle (IMA 1-2).
Results of surgical treatment of talipes equino valgus by means of navicular-cuneiform arthrodesis with midcuboid osteotomy.	The results of naviculocuneiform arthrodesis with midcuboid osteotomy for correction of talipes equino valgus are presented. Criteria for this procedure are developed. Overall efficacy of this technique is questioned.
Surgical reconstruction for calcaneonavicular coalition. Evaluation of function and gait.	The function of nineteen patients was evaluated at three to fourteen years after reconstructive surgery for calcaneonavicular coalition. Measurements of subtalar motion, single-limb functional tests, and gait analyses were carried out to determine how function in these patients differed from normal. Better function correlated well with better postoperative subtalar motion. Patients with a unilateral coalition who had good subtalar motion after resection showed symmetrical gait patterns during tests of function of the subtalar joint under conditions of stress.
Solitary bony metastasis to the foot with long survival following amputation.	A 73-year-old man developed a solitary metastasis to the cuboid bone of the foot one year after a left upper lobectomy for bronchogenic adenosquamous carcinoma. Irradiation controlled the pain for 1 1/2 years. Metastatic work-up failed to show other foci; hence, a Syme's amputation was performed. The patient remains well with no evidence of disease 3 1/2 years after biopsy diagnosis. Metastasis to the peripheral bones of the feet are extremely rare. Only 23 biopsy-proven cases are recorded in the English literature, seven of which were of bronchogenic origin. Most of the cases were part of disseminated metastatic disease, with the longest reported survival being 26 months. The present case had an apparently solitary metastasis, with a relatively long survival of 44 months following diagnosis.
Results of surgical peritalar release with elongation of the lateral column of the foot in treatment of congenital veritcal talus]	Clinical and radiological results of surgical treatment of congenital vertical talus with the method introduced by the author have been presented. Along with Ingram's peritalar release and Grice's extra articular arthrodesis the author introduced elongation of the lateral column of the foot by interposing a bony graft into the calcaneocuboid joint. Five feet in children aged 5 on an average have been operated. An average follow-up was of 5 years. Clinically, three results were rated excellent and two good, radiologically two were excellent, two good and one fair. The results were assessed with a point scale, parameters worsening the outcome are presented in the tables.
Osteotomy of the medial cuneiform in the treatment of the adducted forefoot]	A series of 20 feet in 17 children (12 females, 5 males) treated surgically with medial cuneiform osteotomy and bony bloc insertion to correct forefoot adduction has been assessed. Primary diagnosis were: congenital clubfoot (17 feet), skewfoot (2 feet) and congenital fibular aplasia (1 foot). The average age at the operation was 4.5 years (range from 23 months to 8 years 2 months). Five children (7 feet) were operated before 4 years of age. Medial cuneiform osteotomy has been combined with complete subtalar release from Cincinnati approach, wedge resection of the cuboid and Dwyer procedure. The follow-up was 18 months on an average (6-30 months). Correction of the deformity has been assessed clinically and radiologically (angles: tarsal-metatarsal I, tarsal-metatarsal V and first ray angle ray angle according to Barriolhet. In all cases accurate position of the forefoot has been achieved.
Open osteotomy of the first cuneiform in the treatment of tarsometatarsal varus in children]	Open wedge osteotomy of the first cuneiform was used for correction of metatarsus varus primus. The osteotomy interested the medial, dorsal and plantar face of the first cuneiform, but lateral cortex should be carefully left intact, it is used like a hinge for opening the osteotomy. This procedure is carried out when varus of the tarsometatarsal joint is superior to 20 degree, it is reduced to its normal value, between 5 and 10 degree. Osteotomy is stabilized with bone graft. In resistant metatarsus adductus, closed wedge osteotomy of the cuboid has been added to correct the varus deformity of the fore foot, it allowed lateral swing of the forefoot: the bone excised from cuboid is used to stabilized medial osteotomy. Twelve children, aged 5 to 15 years, underwent medial open wedge osteotomy of the first cuneiform for correction of 16 feet including 8 hallux valgus, 6 serpentine feet, defined as adductus of the forefoot and valgus of the hindfoot, and 2 clubfeet. In all hallux valgus it was associated with release of all contracted lateral structures and in three cases, shortening of the proximal phalanx. In serpentine feet and clubfeet closed wedge osteotomy of cuboid has been added.
Hindfoot arthrodesis]	Arthrodesis of the hindfoot is indicated in congenital foot deformity of young adults, in posttraumatic arthrosis of the subtalar joint following calcaneus fractures, in idiopathic, isolated arthroses of hindfoot joints, in rheumatoid arthritis and in deformities of the longitudinal arch of the foot. Common and useful combinations are the triple-arthrodesis and the arthrodesis of the subtalar and the calcaneocuboid joint, in particular if both joints are affected by calcaneus fractures. Arthrodesis of the subtalar and the talonavicular joint are often performed as isolated procedures. The three-dimensional structure of the hindfoot articulations may impede perfect contact of the bone surfaces in combined arthrodeses. Various fixation methods are in use. Follow-up examination of 52 arthrodeses after 11.1 years revealed good, symptomatic improvement in most patients. However, complete bony union was achieved in only 47 percent, and this was due to insufficient stabilization of the arthrodesis in many cases. In view of comparable rates of pseudarthroses in the literature, we advocate stable internal fixation with screws or bone staples.
