Relationship between early life respiratory illness, family size over time, and the development of asthma and hay fever: a seven year follow up study.	The timing and mechanism of the inverse association between increasing sibling number and atopic disease are not yet understood. A study was undertaken to examine how family size at birth predicts early respiratory illness, to report the association between infant respiratory illness and childhood atopic disease, and to determine whether the protective effect of large family size operates during infancy or later childhood.
Vitamin D insufficiency in adolescent males in Southern Tasmania: prevalence, determinants, and relationship to bone turnover markers.	There are limited data on vitamin D insufficiency in healthy children. The aim of this study was to describe the prevalence and determinants of vitamin D insufficiency and its association with bone turnover in adolescent boys (N = 136, mean age 16 years). Sun exposure and physical activity were assessed by questionnaire. Vitamin D stores were assessed by serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25[OH]D3). Bone turnover was assessed by bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BAP) and urinary pyridinoline (PYR) to creatinine (Cr) ratio (mmol PYR/micromol Cr). The mean 25(OH)D3 level was low (44 nmol/l; 68% < 50 nmol/l; range, 16-87) and was associated with self-reported sun exposure on winter weekends (r = 0.23, p = 0.01), school holidays (r = 0.22, p = 0.01), and weekdays (r = 0.17, p = 0.05). It was also associated with number of sports (r = 0.34, p < 0.001) and vigorous activity (r = 0.22, p = 0.01) but not television, computer, and video watching (r = -0.04, p = 0.68). In multivariate analysis, number of sports but not total sun exposure remained significantly associated with 25(OH)D3. Furthermore, 25(OH)D3 was significantly associated with BAP in cutpoint analysis (cutpoint 55 nmol/l, p = 0.03) but not continuous analysis (r = -0.12, p = 0.16) and PYR in both forms (r = -0.23, p = 0.01, cutpoint 43 nmol/l, p = 0.01). In conclusion, vitamin D insufficiency is common in healthy adolescent boys in winter in our setting, is primarily derived from sports-related sun exposure, and is associated with bone turnover markers. These data suggest that a 25(OH)D3 level of at least 43-55 nmol/l is required for optimal bone health in children.
Gill histopathology of wild marine fish in Tasmania: potential interactions with gill health of cultured Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar L.	This study surveyed conditions in the gills of wild marine fish in Tasmania to determine potential interactions between wild and cultured fish. Wild marine fish of 12 species were captured from three Atlantic salmon farm sites and three reference sites around Tasmania. The survey concentrated on three species, red cod, Pseudophycis bachus, sand flathead, Platycephalus bassensis, and jack mackerel, Trachurus declivus. Seventy-six per cent of salmon pens contained wild fish species. The number of species found in a pen ranged from one to nine and the number of individuals ranged from one to 23. Trichodinids were prevalent and occurred on seven of the 13 species examined. Trichodina occurred on the gills of all but one specimen of red cod. Monogenean gill flukes were observed on all three major species sampled and were abundant on sand flathead. Other parasites and conditions observed in the survey included metacercariae of digenean trematodes, epitheliocystis and cysts of unknown origin. Infestations of trichodinids on red cod and monogenean gill flukes on sand flathead were significantly more intense at farm sites than at reference sites. Atlantic salmon sampled at the same time from the farms were only affected by amoebic gill disease and isopods.
FMR1 alleles in Tasmania: a screening study of the special educational needs population.	The distribution of fragile X mental retardation-1 (FMR1) allele categories, classified by the number of CGG repeats, in the population of Tasmania was investigated in 1253 males with special educational needs (SEN). The frequencies of these FMR1 categories were compared with those seen in controls as represented by 578 consecutive male births. The initial screening was based on polymerase chain reaction analysis of dried blood spots. Inconclusive results were verified by Southern analysis of a venous blood sample. The frequencies of common FMR1 alleles in both samples, and of grey zone alleles in the controls, were similar to those in other Caucasian populations. Consistent with earlier reports, we found some (although insignificant) increase of grey zone alleles in SEN subjects compared with controls. The frequencies of predisposing flanking haplotypes among grey zone males FMR1 alleles were similar to those seen in other Caucasian SEN samples. Contrary to expectation, given the normal frequency of grey zone alleles, no premutation (PM) or full mutation (FM) allele was detected in either sample, with only 15 fragile X families diagnosed through routine clinical admissions registered in Tasmania up to 2002. An explanation of this discrepancy could be that the C19th founders of Tasmania carried few PM or FM alleles. The eight to ten generations since white settlement of Tasmania has been insufficient time for susceptible grey zone alleles to evolve into the larger expansions.
Sudden infant death syndrome: seasonality and a biphasic model of pathogenesis.	This paper examines the relationship between season, age, and the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). It provides a theoretical model for the pathogenesis of SIDS and uses it as a framework to consider risk factor mechanism.
Antenatal loss of one of twins.	The antepartum loss of a twin with survival of the second twin to delivery was studied in the Tasmanian population from 1980 to 1989 inclusive. No previous study of an Australian population has been reported. This rare complication occurs in 3.5% of twin pregnancies. The outcome of these pregnancies and the outcome for the surviving twin are discussed.
Measles vaccination failure--cause for concern?	The author describes a propagated epidemic of measles virus infection on the north-west coast of Tasmania. Almost 20 per cent of children between the ages of 1 year and 15 years contracted the illness, 45 per cent of whom were previously vaccinated. A retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted to assess the incidence of infection and the vaccination status of the community and to investigate the apparent measles vaccine failure.
Preoperative nutritional status predicts the severity of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) following major vascular surgery.	This study examined the relationship between pre-operative nutritional status and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) or sepsis following major vascular surgery.
Changing from epidural to multimodal analgesia for colorectal laparotomy: an audit.	In April 2002 our practice ceased routine use of epidural analgesia for colorectal laparotomy in favour of a six-drug multimodal regimen comprising ketamine, clonidine, morphine, tramadol, paracetamol and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. The records of 54 patients who received this multimodal analgesia regimen (MM) after April 2002 were compared to the 59 patients who had previously received epidural analgesia (EPI). Patients had the same surgeon and anaesthetist. Daily pain score (verbal rated 0-10) at rest (mean) over the first three postoperative days was satisfactorily low with both MM (1.2 +/- 1.2) and EPI (0.4 +/- 0.4). Over this period there was little difference between the maximum pain score at rest (MM 2.3 +/- 1.9 vs. EPI 2.2 +/- 1.7, P = 0.58). Major complications and side-effects occurred solely in EPI patients: epidural abscess (1), respiratory depression (2), pneumonia (3), venous thromboembolism (3), delirium (7), high block (7) and motor block (3). Hypotension requiring intervention was 4.8 times more frequent in the EPI group (95% CI 2.1-11). Antiemetic use was similar between groups; on average 13 patients in the MM groups (24%) and 15 patients in the EPI groups (26%) received antiemetics each day. MM patients had shorter anaesthetic preparation time (20 +/- 8 min vs. 32 +/- 8 min, P < 0.001), shorter high-dependency unit stay (0.4 +/- 1.2 days vs. 4.5 +/- 0.9 days, P < 0.001), and shorter hospital stay (10 +/- 4 days vs. 13 +/- 8 days, P = 0.003). In our practice, changing from epidural to multimodal analgesia produced comparable pain relief with reduction in anaesthesia preparation time, high-dependency unit stay and hospital stay and the requirement for staff interventions. There was also a reduction in the incidence of major complications and side-effects.
Massive hepatic congenital haemangioma: clinical dilemmas.	A case of massive hepatomegaly secondary to a hepatic congenital haemangioma in a preterm neonate is described. This infant died after withdrawal of neonatal intensive care support, following massive intracerebral haemorrhage. There remains considerable uncertainty regarding the classification of, and therapy for, hepatic vascular anomalies.
Serological prevalence study of exposure of cats and dogs in Launceston, Tasmania, Australia to spotted fever group rickettsiae.	A sero-epidemiological study of cats and dogs in the Launceston area of Tasmania, Australia was undertaken to determine the prevalence of antibodies to spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiae. Results showed that 59% of cats and 57% of dogs were positive for antibodies, but there was no correlation between the animal's health and seropositivity at the time of testing, suggesting that rickettsial exposure is unrelated to ill-health in these two species of domestic animals.
Four decades of anal cancer in Tasmania, Australia: what do the case data tell us?	Anal cancer is a rare cancer analogous to cervical cancer, largely caused by exposure to oncogenic human papillomavirus. We have sought to study this disease in the epidemiologically distinct population of Tasmania.
Chlamydia trachomatis in Tasmania 2001-2007: rising notification trends.	To investigate trends in notification rates of Chlamydia trachomatis in Tasmania, Australia, by population sub-groups, from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2007.
Working at the frontline in cases of elder abuse: 'it keeps me awake at night'.	To explore the experiences of frontline health and welfare practitioners in working with older people experiencing abuse.
Prevalence of Acanthamoeba spp. in Tasmanian intensive care clinical specimens.	Acanthamoebae are ubiquitous free-living environmental amoebae that may occasionally cause keratitis, granulomatous encephalitis, cutaneous lesions and systemic disease in humans. Acanthamoeba spp. have been implicated as a vehicle by which a number of common bacterial causes of healthcare-associated pneumonia may enter the lungs. Limited evidence has been found implicating Acanthamoeba spp. as a primary cause of pneumonia and urinary catheter colonization in intensive care patients.
The Tasmanian SIDS Case-Control Study: univariable and multivariable risk factor analysis.	A population-based retrospective case-control study has been conducted in Tasmania since October 1988. Study measurements pertained to the scene of death of last sleep, as well as a verbal questionnaire on relevant exposures. From 1 October 1988 to 1 October 1991, 62 cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) occurred. Case response rate for retrospective interviews was 94% (58/62). The initial control response rate was 84% (101/121). After stratification for maternal age and birthweight, there was no increase in risk associated with the usual side position (odds ratio [OR] 1.05 [0.27, 5.02]), compared with the supine position (OR 1.00, reference). The prone position was associated with increased risk [OR 5.70 (1.67, 25.58)], relative to the supine position. In the final multivariable model, predictors of SIDS in this study were usual prone position (P < 0.001), maternal smoking (P = 0.008), a family history of asthma (P = 0.045) and bedroom heating during last sleep (P = 0.039). Protective factors were maternal age over 25 years (P = 0.013) and more than one child health clinic attendance (P = 0.003). The results provide further support for current health education activities which aim to inform parents of modifiable risk factors for SIDS, including the prone sleeping position, thermal stress and infant exposure to tobacco smoke.
Missed injuries in the multiply traumatized.	The delayed diagnosis of injuries in traumatized patients is a recognized problem. A retrospective review of trauma patients admitted to a major teaching hospital has been performed. The records of all patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) have been checked to determine the incidence of late diagnosed injuries. The notes written by the staff of the emergency department and the ICU, and the attending surgical registrars have been used as the criteria of initial diagnosis. Comparing them to the injuries listed in the progress notes, investigation reports, discharge summary and follow-up outpatient notes led to the discovery of a number of missed injures (19 of 50 patients had one or more). In 4 cases the management involved further surgery due to new diagnoses. This is consistent with overseas literature. A review of the literature is presented and methods to improve the missed diagnosis rate are discussed.
The clinical significance of Escherichia coli Alkalescens-Dispar in Tasmania.	An investigation in 1989 of human fecal specimens revealed that of 111 diarrheal samples examined Escherichia coli Alkalescens-Dispar (A-D) were found in 9 (8.1%), but none were isolated from normal stool samples. Further studies have shown that although these isolates may be potential pathogens, they seem to remain unrecognized by routine laboratories due to their biochemical similarity to shigellae, a problem further exacerbated by their extensive sharing of O antigens. All the isolates were screened with an invasive DNA probe and all but three isolates were found to have a common plasmid. They were also confirmed to be invasive in HEp-2 monolayers. No isolates were shown to produce heat-labile or heat-stable toxin but electronmicroscopy revealed the presence of pili. The A-D isolates were biotyped using the two-tier schema of Crichton and Old and were categorized into biotypes 11, 12 and 16. These data confirm the importance of introducing an awareness of this intermediate strain into routine laboratories.
Increased survival in patients diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease in Tasmania, 1972-1992.	It has been shown that in certain populations the prognosis of Hodgkin's disease (HD) has improved markedly since the late 1960s. This has not been formally demonstrated in an Australian population.
