Oral submucous fibrosis: study of 1000 cases from central India.	Very few reports have been published on the gender specificity of oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) in relation to habit patterns and the severity of disease in the world literature. The purpose of the study was to ascertain the gender specificity for different habits and severity of OSF.
Oral conditions among German battery factory workers.	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the oral health situation of workers in a modern battery factory; in particular, to describe the prevalence and the severity of dental erosion and attrition in relation to exposure of airborne acids in the work environment. Measurements of the work environment at a German battery factory showed that the workers were exposed to sulfuric acids (0.4-4.1 mg/cm3). All workers at the factory were included in the survey and a total of 61 dentate individuals completed a questionnaire on their work environment, dental health, and symptoms from the mouth, nose, and throat. Information on oral health status, erosion, and attrition was collected by clinical examinations. Nearly all workers reported exposure to etching substances in their work environment: 56% complained of sharp and thin teeth and 29% of short teeth. Poor dental health conditions were observed (e.g. mean D-T = 3.8); the mean number of teeth with crown restoration was 5.3. The prevalence of erosion was 31% and 92% were affected by attrition. Erosion was found only in front teeth while attrition also occurred in posterior teeth. Due to the high level of crown restorations a rather moderate dose-effect relationship was observed. In conclusion, severe erosion and attrition due to sulfuric acid mists should be recognized as an occupational disease.
Taste sensitivity diminution in hyperglycemic type 2 diabetics patients]	To determine the relationship between fasting blood glucose (FBG) values and gustatory sensitivity alterations in type 2 diabetic patients (DM2) without peripheral neuropathy (PNP).
Selected risk factors of metabolic syndrome and disorders of taste perception]	The sense of taste, apart from the sense of smell and sight, is one of the most important senses that play crucial role in the transmission of information regarding the food and its usefulness for consumption. Alarming is an increasing number of people with the taste dysfunction. This kind of dysfunction is serious problem especially among the elderly that arise not only from unavoidable and natural processes of ageing but also from health problems and taken medications. Disturbances of taste perception influence on food preferences and may increase to a large extent the development of the metabolic-civilization diseases or even intensify them. Considering the increasing amount of people with metabolic syndrome and rising prevalence of taste disturbances, the current essay include the literature review regarding this subject. It must be underline that metabolic syndrome and taste perception disorders may decrease not only the quality of life but also have unbeneficial influence of health status.
Taste hyposensitivity in Japanese schoolchildren.	There is some research on taste disorder/hyposensitivity in special groups such as the elderly or patients presenting with specific taste problems, however few studies have been conducted among young populations. The objectives of this study were to estimate the prevalence of taste hyposensitivity and to investigate the relationship between taste hyposensitivity and oral health status in Japanese schoolchildren.
