Formation of Tat-TAR containing ribonucleoprotein complexes for biochemical and structural analyses.	Viruses manipulate multiple processes of the host cell machinery in order to replicate successfully in the infected cell. Among these, stimulation of transcription of the viral genes is crucial for lentiviruses such as HIV for increased protein expression levels and generation of escape mutants. The transactivation response (TAR) element at the 5'-end of HIV, SIV, BIV, EIAV or JDV retroviruses forms a unique RNA based promoter element that together with the transcription activator protein Tat stimulates viral gene expression at the level of transcription elongation. TAR is a double stranded non-coding RNA of typically 24-40 nucleotides length. Together with Tat it interacts with the Cyclin T subunit of the positive transcription elongation factor P-TEFb to recruit Cyclin T and its corresponding Cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk9 to the RNA polymerase II. In vitro formations of these Tat-TAR containing ribonucleoprotein complexes are a key requisite for biochemical characterizations and interaction studies that eventually will allow structural analyses. Here, we describe purification methods of the different factors employed and chromatography techniques that yield highly specific complex assemblies suitable for crystallization.
Acquisition of HIV-1 resistance in T lymphocytes using an ACA-specific E. coli mRNA interferase.	Transcriptional activation of gene expression directed by the long terminal repeat (LTR) of HIV-1 requires both the transactivation response element (TAR) and Tat protein. HIV-1 mutants lacking a functional tat gene are not able to proliferate. Here we take a genetic approach to suppress HIV-1 replication based on Tat-dependent production of MazF, an ACA-specific endoribonuclease (mRNA interferase) from Escherichia coli. When induced, MazF is known to cause Bak- and NBK-dependent apoptotic cell death in mammalian cells. We first constructed a retroviral vector, in which the mazF (ACA-less) gene was inserted under the control of the HIV-1 LTR, which was then transduced into CD4+ T-lymphoid CEM-SS cells in such a way that, upon HIV-1 infection, the mazF gene is induced to destroy the infecting HIV-1 mRNA, preventing HIV-1 replication. Indeed, when the transduced cells were infected with HIV-1 IIIB, the viral replication was effectively inhibited, as HIV-1 IIIB p24 could not be detected in the culture medium. Consistently, not only cell growth but also the CD4 level was not affected by the infection. These results suggest that the HIV-1-LTR-regulated mazF gene was effectively induced upon HIV-1 IIIB infection, which is sufficient enough to destroy the viral mRNA from the infected HIV-1 IIIB to completely block viral proliferation in the cells, but not to affect normal cell growth. These results indicate that the T cells transduced with the HIV-1-LTR-regulated mazF gene acquire HIV-1 resistance, providing an intriguing potential for the use of the HIV-1-LTR-regulated mazF gene in anti-HIV gene therapy.
Genetic and functional heterogeneity of CNS-derived tat alleles from patients with HIV-associated dementia.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) demonstrates a high degree of viral diversity which has an impact on viral fitness. Genetic compartmentalization of HIV-1 proteins between central nervous system (CNS) and lymphoid tissues is well established and reflects altered requirements for HIV-1 replication in macrophages/microglia, brain-specific immune selection pressures and possibly the timing of virus invasion of the CNS. Tat-encoding mRNA has been detected in the CNS of HIV-1 infected individuals and its neurotoxic effects in the CNS are well documented. However, while CNS-derived tat sequences have demonstrated significant diversity, the effect of this molecular diversity on transcriptional regulation and its impact on the pathogenesis of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) remains unclear. In this study, we cloned and characterised 44 unique tat alleles from brain, cerebral spinal fluid, spinal cord and blood/lymphoid tissue-derived HIV-1 isolates from five subjects with HAD. While phylogenetic analyses revealed tissue-specific compartmentalization of Tat variants for two patients, broad compartmentalization across the panel of tissue-derived viruses was not observed. Despite the lack of consistent tissue-specific compartmentalization, sequence variations within patients segregated CNS and non-CNS tat alleles. These amino acid alterations predominated within the transactivation domain of Tat and could account for alterations in the ability of particular Tat proteins to transactivate the LTR. Although a subset of patients demonstrated reduced transactivation capacity among CNS-derived Tat proteins compared to those from matched lymphoid tissues, overall Tat proteins from the CNS to lymphoid compartments maintained similar levels of transactivation function. Together, these data suggest that despite the observed heterogeneity in tat alleles isolated from matched lymphoid to CNS compartments, Tat function is maintained, highlighting the importance of Tat function in HIV-1 neuropathogenesis.
Nox2-based NADPH oxidase mediates HIV-1 Tat-induced up-regulation of VCAM-1/ICAM-1 and subsequent monocyte adhesion in human astrocytes.	Up-regulation of adhesion molecules such as vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) by the HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) in activated microglia and astrocytes may play a pivotal role during the development of AIDS-related encephalitis and dementia. Previous studies demonstrated that HIV-1 Tat-induced up-regulation of adhesion molecules was mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS), although the mechanisms underlying HIV-1 Tat-induced ROS generation are unknown. In this study, we examined the possible role of NADPH oxidase in HIV-1 Tat-induced up-regulation of adhesion molecules in astroglioma cell lines. HIV-1 Tat-induced up-regulation of VCAM-1/ICAM-1 and subsequent increased adhesion of monocytes to astrocytes were blocked by a general NADPH oxidase inhibitor, diphenylene iodonium, and a specific inhibitor of NADPH oxidase assembly, 9R3A-gp91ds. Nox2 knockdown using small interfering RNA (siRNA) inhibited HIV-1 Tat-induced up-regulation of adhesion molecules and subsequent increased adhesion of monocytes to astrocytes. Nox2 siRNA blocked HIV-1 Tat-induced ROS production, increase in NADPH oxidase activity, and Rac1 activation. Furthermore, Nox2 siRNA decreased HIV-1 Tat-induced NF-κB activation as well as activation of MAP kinases including ERK, JNK, and p38. These data indicate that Nox2-based NADPH oxidase is responsible for HIV-1 Tat-induced generation of ROS and plays an important role in the up-regulation of adhesion molecules such as VCAM-1/ICAM-1 and subsequent increased adhesion of monocytes to astrocytes and serves as a novel target for HIV-1 Tat-mediated neurological diseases.
A suicide gene approach using the human pro-apoptotic protein tBid inhibits HIV-1 replication.	Regulated expression of suicide genes is a powerful tool to eliminate specific subsets of cells and will find widespread usage in both basic and applied science. A promising example is the specific elimination of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infected cells by LTR-driven suicide genes. The success of this approach, however, depends on a fast and effective suicide gene, which is expressed exclusively in HIV-1 infected cells. These preconditions have not yet been completely fulfilled and, thus, success of suicide approaches has been limited so far. We tested truncated Bid (tBid), a human pro-apoptotic protein that induces apoptosis very rapidly and efficiently, as suicide gene for gene therapy against HIV-1 infection.
Development of co-selected single nucleotide polymorphisms in the viral promoter precedes the onset of human immunodeficiency virus type 1-associated neurocognitive impairment.	The long terminal repeat (LTR) regulates gene expression of HIV-1 by interacting with multiple host and viral factors. Cross-sectional studies in the pre-HAART era demonstrated that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in peripheral blood-derived LTRs (a C-to-T change at position 3 of C/EBP site I (3T) and at position 5 of Sp site III (5T)) increased in frequency as disease severity increased. Additionally, the 3T variant correlated with HIV-1-associated dementia. LTR sequences derived by longitudinal sampling of peripheral blood from a single patient in the DrexelMed HIV/AIDS Genetic Analysis Cohort resulted in the detection of the 3T and 5T co-selected SNPs before the onset of neurologic impairment, demonstrating that these SNPs may be useful in predicting HIV-associated neurological complications. The relative fitness of the LTRs containing the 3T and/or 5T co-selected SNPs as they evolve in their native patient-derived LTR backbone structure demonstrated a spectrum of basal and Tat-mediated transcriptional activities using the IIIB-derived Tat and colinear Tat derived from the same molecular clone containing the 3T/5T LTR SNP. In silico predictions utilizing colinear envelope sequence suggested that the patient's virus evolved from an X4 to an R5 swarm prior to the development of neurological complications and more advanced HIV disease. These results suggest that the HIV-1 genomic swarm may evolve during the course of disease in response to selective pressures that lead to changes in prevalence of specific polymorphisms in the LTR, env, and/or tat that could predict the onset of neurological disease and result in alterations in viral function.
Introduction of hypoxia-targeting p53 fusion protein for the selective therapy of non-small cell lung cancer.	Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which accounts for ~85% of lung cancer, is the major cause of malignancy mortality around the world. TP53 dysfunction and hypoxia are the typical biological features of the diverse solid tumors, including NSCLC. To develop an effective and low cytotoxic biological agent for targeted therapy, a p53 fusion protein, which was conjugated with the minimum motif of oxygen-dependent degradation domain (ODD) and the basic domain of TAT of HIV-1 named as TAT-ODD-p53, was evaluated for the treatment of NSCLC established by grafting H1299 cell line in which TP53 is homozygously deleted. We provide the evidence that this p53 fusion protein could significantly induce the cell-cycle arrest and/or apoptosis to inhibit H1299 cells' growth via p53-dependent pathways, including up-regulation of p21 expression and activation of pro-caspase-3, especially under hypoxia in vitro. The results in vivo indicated that this protein could selectively accumulate in the low oxygen tension areas of solid tumor tissues, inhibiting tumor growth via a similar mechanism to that in vitro. No obvious side effects were observed. Therefore, this recombinant p53 protein is likely to become a good candidate for targeted therapy of NSCLC.
Morphine and gp120 toxic interactions in striatal neurons are dependent on HIV-1 strain.	A rigorously controlled, cell culture paradigm was used to assess the role of HIV-1 gp120 ± morphine in mediating opioid-HIV interactive toxicity in striatal neurons. Computerized time-lapse microscopy tracked the fate of individual neurons co-cultured with mixed-glia from mouse striata during opioid and gp120 exposure. Subpopulations of neurons and astroglia displayed μ-opioid receptor, CXCR4, and CCR5 immunoreactivity. While gp120 alone was or tended to be neurotoxic irrespective of whether X4-tropic gp120(IIIB), R5-tropic gp120(ADA), or dual-tropic gp120(MN) was administered, interactive toxicity with morphine differed depending on HIV-1 strain. For example, morphine only transiently exacerbated gp120(IIIB)-induced neuronal death; however, in combination with gp120(MN), morphine caused sustained increases in the rate of neuronal death compared to gp120(MN) alone that were prevented by naloxone. Alternatively, gp120(ADA) significantly increased the rate of neuron death, but gp120(ADA) toxicity was unaffected by morphine. The transient neurotoxic interactions between morphine and gp120(IIIB) were abrogated in the absence of glia suggesting that glia contribute significantly to the interactive pathology with chronic opiate abuse and neuroAIDS. To assess how mixed-glia might contribute to the neurotoxicity, the effects of morphine and/or gp120 on the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and on glutamate buffering were examined. All gp120 variants, and to a lesser extent morphine, increased ROS and/or decreased glutamate buffering, but together failed to show any interaction with morphine. Our findings indicate that HIV-1 strain-specific differences in gp120 are critical determinants in shaping both the timing and pattern of neurotoxic interactions with opioid drugs.
TAT-Hsp70 induces neuroprotection against stroke via anti-inflammatory actions providing appropriate cellular microenvironment for transplantation of neural precursor cells.	Heat-shock protein 70 (Hsp70) protects against cerebral ischemia, which is attributed to its chaperone activity. However, recent reports also describe pro-inflammatory actions of Hsp70 via activation of Toll-like receptors (TLR). Using membrane-permeable transactivator of transcription (TAT)-Hsp70, we analyzed TAT-Hsp70-induced neuroprotection and its underlying mechanism after cerebral ischemia in mice. Infusion of TAT-Hsp70 reduced infarct volume and enhanced blood-brain barrier integrity on day 3 poststroke, when given no later than 12 hours. The latter was associated with reduction of microglial activation, although upregulation of pro-inflammatory TLR-2/4 was observed both in verum and in control animals. Nevertheless, protein abundance and nuclear translocation of downstream nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) as well as proteasomal degradation of the NF-κB regulator Ikappa B alpha (IκB-α) were significantly reduced by TAT-Hsp70. TAT-Hsp70-induced neuroprotection and functional recovery were restricted to 4 weeks only. However, TAT-Hsp70 provided an appropriate extracellular milieu for delayed intravenous transplantation of adult neural precursor cells (NPCs). Thus, NPCs that were grafted 28 days poststroke induced long-term neuroprotection for at least 3 months, which was not due to integration of grafted cells but rather due to paracrine effects of transplanted NPCs. Conclusively, TAT-Hsp70 ameliorates postischemic inflammation via proteasome inhibition, thus providing an appropriate extracellular milieu for delayed NPC transplantation and culminating in long-term neuroprotection. 
Effect on apoptosis and cell cycle of recombinant double negative dominant mutation Survivin (T34/117A) in breast cancer cell B-Cap-37.	As a bi-functional molecule in anti-apoptosis and pro-proliferation, Survivin is considered to be an attractive target for anti-cancer drug development all the time. Some studies show that these effects of survivin are mainly from two phosphorylation sites on its different domain, Thr 34 and Thr117, but it remains unclear that how they involve respectively in the apoptosis and the cell cycle of cancer cells, hindering the design and preparation of novel anti-cancer drug target to survivin. In the study, a series of recombinant double negative dominant mutants of survivin were constructed, expressed and purified efficiently, and their effects on cell cycle and apoptosis of breast cancer cell B-Cap-37 were investigated. The results showed that Survivin Thr117 is a key site on regulation of proliferation and cycle by Aurora B kinase phosphorylation, and Survivin Thr34 involves cell apoptosis by decreasing mitochondria membrane potential (MMP) and activating caspase-3. Further studies have also shown that recombinant double negative dominant mutation Survivin (T34/117A) could significantly inhibit the proliferation of B-Cap-37 cells and arrest cell in G0/G1 phase and G2/M phase, indicating the double mutant is a more potential candidate as anti-cancer drug. 
