Apolipoprotein E4 accelerates dementia and increases cerebrospinal fluid tau levels in Alzheimer's disease.	To examine the effect of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) 4 on the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the clinical course of 33 AD patients (17 cases with ApoE epsilon4 and 16 cases without ApoE epsilon4) was evaluated with the mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biological markers. The decline of MMSE scores to zero was shortened in the ApoE4 group. During a mean follow-up of 20 months, a significant increase of CSF tau levels was observed in the ApoE4 group. A lower level of CSF A beta1-42(43) was found in both the ApoE4 and non-ApoE4 groups than in age-matched normal controls. The ApoE epsilon4 allele accelerates the progression of dementia and increases the levels of CSF tau in AD patients.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau protein levels in schizophrenia.	Increased cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau protein levels are generally considered to provide a sensitive marker of neurodegenerative processes such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since a more pronounced cognitive decline has been described in older schizophrenic patients, it has been hypothesized that these patients might be at a higher risk of developing AD. CSF levels of total tau protein and tau protein phosphorylated at threonine 181 (phospho-tau) were determined among 19 older and younger patients with schizophrenia compared to 20 age-matched healthy controls. No significant differences in CSF total tau and phospho-tau levels arose between patients with schizophrenia and controls. Although our results do not exclude a progressive neurodegenerative pathology, they provide evidence against major neuronal degeneration such as an AD-related pathology associated with increased tau levels in schizophrenia.
Biological markers for Alzheimer disease]	The development of diagnostic markers for earlier and more reliable diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) is essential, particularly because therapeutic medication is available for AD. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a useful source of diagnostic information. Previously we found the increase of total tau protein in CSF in normal pressure hydrocephalus patients, and others reported the increase also in corticobasal degeneration and frontotemporal dementia. To differentiate the AD from other diseases, further approach was employed and oxidized protein in CSF was investigated. Heat stable fractions of CSF were analyzed on the content of carbonyl residues, which are derivatives of protein oxidization. The result suggests that protein oxidation is highly involved in AD and that this method might be useful to differentiate AD from other neurological disease.
The measurement of phosphorylated tau in human cerebrospinal fluid as a diagnostic marker for Alzheimer's disease]	We examined total 570 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from a variety of diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 236), non-AD-demented and nondemented diseases (n = 239), and normal controls (n = 95) to quantitate levels of tau protein phosphorylated at serine 199 (CSF/p-tau199) by a recently established sandwich ELISA. The CSF/p-tau199 levels in the AD group were significantly elevated compared to those in all the other non-AD groups. Receiver operating characteristics curves showed that the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for the AD group vs all the other non-AD group using the CSF/p-tau199 were 85. 2% and 85.0%, respectively. Although there was a significant positive correlation between CSF/p-tau199 and CSF total tau (CSF/t-tau) levels in the AD group, CSF/p-tau199 classifies patients with AD and other disorders more accurately than the CSF/t-tau. Our study suggests that CSF/p-tau199 testing will help in supporting antemortem diagnosis of AD and in conducting emerging therapies that should be based on an accurate detection of AD while patients are alive.
Elevated interleukin-6 levels in cerebrospinal fluid of vascular dementia patients.	To investigate a possible implication of inflammatory processes in the development of dementia in cerebrovascular disease.
Effects of processing and storage conditions on amyloid beta (1-42) and tau concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid: implications for use in clinical practice.	Reported concentrations of amyloid beta (1-42) (A beta 42) and tau in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) differ among reports. We investigated the effects of storage temperature, repeated freeze/thaw cycles, and centrifugation on the concentrations of A beta 42 and tau in CSF.
Tau protein concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	To elucidate whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the microtubule-associated tau protein are related to the risk for sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS).
Cerebrospinal fluid tau, Abeta1-42 and inflammatory cytokines in patients with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.	In this study we aimed to evaluate the possibility of using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau, Abeta(1-42) and inflammatory cytokines for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD). We measured levels of total tau (T-tau), phospho-tau (P-tau), Abeta(1-42), IL-6, and TNFalpha in CSF in groups of AD, VD, and controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). T-tau level was found significantly higher in groups of AD (t = 3.015, P < 0.01) and VD (t = 2.872, P < 0.01) than in controls. IL-6 level as also higher in AD (t = 2.883, P < 0.01) and VD (t = 3.032, P < 0.01) than in controls. Both T-tau and IL-6 were not significantly different between AD and VD (P > 0.05). The group of AD had remarkably higher P-tau (t = 4.261 and 3.883, respectively, P < 0.01) and lower Abeta(1-42) (t = 3.883 and 4.129, respectively, P < 0.01), as compared with those in VD and controls. TNFalpha level in AD was significantly higher than that in controls (t = 2.745, P < 0.01), but lower than in VD (t = 3.032, P < 0.01). Our data suggested that increment of T-tau and IL-6 levels in CSF was useful for screening AD and VD in certain population, while descending Abeta(1-42) and ascending TNFalpha in CSF are preferable to diagnose AD. In addition, a higher level of CSF P-tau might support AD diagnosis.
Follow-up investigations in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease.	Measuring proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has gained wide acceptance for the differential diagnosis of dementia. Some groups have already extended these investigations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) by asking how stable these markers are in follow-up analysis, if they depend on the stage of disease and whether they can be used to monitor the progression and biological effects of treatment. We evaluated 21 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 19 patients with AD, on two occasions, with regard to levels of tau protein, tau protein phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau), Abeta42, Abeta40 and S-100B protein, using a set of commercially available assays. Tau protein levels were lower in DLB in first and second LP compared to AD and decreased during course of both groups. P-tau levels were increased in AD and DLB and decreased during follow-up. Abeta42 and Abeta40 remained relatively stable during follow-up but we found a slight increase of the median Abeta42 level in DLB, whereas in AD, Abeta42 tends to decrease during follow-up. S-100B protein increased during follow-up in both diseases. The protein dynamics in DLB and AD are relatively similar. S-100B protein may be a useful marker for follow-up in neurodegenerative diseases but has to be analysed in longer follow-up periods. Tau protein may be used to differentiate between DLB and AD. Follow-up CSF analyses are of limited value for the differentiation of AD and DLB. We conclude that more specific markers have to be established for the differentiation and follow-up of these diseases.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau and beta-amyloid in Alzheimer patients, disease controls and an age-matched random sample.	We prospectively evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-beta-amyloid1-42 (Abeta42), -total-tau (tau) and -phosphorylated-tau181 (p-tau181) as measured by sandwich ELISAs in the clinical routine of a community state hospital to discriminate between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), healthy controls (HC), non-AD-dementias, a group composed of various psychiatric disorders (non-AD-dementias, mental diseases) and an age-matched random sample (RS) (total N=219). By comparing patients with AD to HC as reference, tau revealed sensitivity (sens)/specificity (spec) of 88%/80%, p-tau(181) 88%/80%, tau/Abeta42-ratio 81%/85% and phospho-tau(181)/Abeta42-ratio 81%/78%. Discriminative power between HC and all dementias under investigation was estimated lower for tau (78%/77%) and p-tau(181) (73%/79%). Relative to patients with AD, ROC analysis for the RS revealed highest sens/spec for p-tau181 (79%/77%) and p-tau181/Abeta42 ratio (78%/75%). Differentiation between AD versus a group made of patients with various psychiatric disorders was optimised by using CSF-p-tau181 (80%/77%). Under clinical routine conditions current CSF-biomarkers show a substantial capacity to discriminate between AD and HC as reference and to mark off AD patients from RS and heterogeneous diagnostic groups composed of non-AD dementias and other psychiatric conditions. Despite a residual substantial overlap between the groups, we conclude that current CSF markers are well suited to support AD-related diagnostic procedures in every-day clinics.
CSF neurofilament light chain and tau differentiate multiple system atrophy from Parkinson's disease.	In early disease stages it can be clinically difficult to differentiate idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) from patients with multiple system atrophy predominated by parkinsonism (MSA-P).
CSF biomarkers and medial temporal lobe atrophy predict dementia in mild cognitive impairment.	To study CSF biomarkers, beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta(1-42)) and tau, and medial temporal lobe atrophy (MTA) on MRI in their ability to predict dementia in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
Erythropoietin in the cerebrospinal fluid in neurodegenerative diseases.	Erythropoietin (EPO) and its specific receptor (EPOR) have been proposed to act as an endogenous system protecting against neuronal injury and neurodegeneration. We measured EPO in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with neurodegenerative diseases, and tested for a correlation with an established biomarker of neuro-axonal damage, tau protein. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD, N=40), vascular dementia (VD, N=19), frontotemporal lobe dementia (FTLD, N=5), ALS (N=30) and controls (N=49) were included. Cerebrospinal fluid and serum levels of EPO and tau were measured using ELISA techniques. We found CSF EPO in ALS to be lower than in controls (p=0.04), while no difference between patients with AD, VD, FTLD and controls was detectable. CSF EPO correlated with age (p<0.001) as well as with tau protein (p=0.002) in all patients pooled. In contrast to the upregulation of the EPO/EPOR system in brain tissue upon various conditions of neuronal distress, CSF EPO concentrations in neurodegenerative disease were found in the same range or even reduced as compared to controls. This may be due to a relative deficiency of endogenous CNS EPO in these conditions and/or to a more efficient extraction of free EPO molecules from brain intercellular fluid by increased numbers of EPOR.
Cerebrospinal fluid amyloid beta42/phosphorylated tau ratio discriminates between Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.	The differentiation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from vascular dementia (VaD) is hampered by clinical diagnostic criteria with disappointing sensitivity and specificity. The objective of this study was to investigate whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of total tau protein (t-tau), amyloid beta42 protein (Abeta42), and tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181) are useful biomarkers to distinguish AD patients from VaD patients.
Fine mapping of the MAPT locus using quantitative trait analysis identifies possible causal variants in Alzheimer's disease.	In addition to senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles are characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, suggesting a clear involvement of the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) in AD. Recent findings, suggesting that the H1c haplotype is associated with increased risk, now also implicate MAPT genetically. In this study, we aim to clarify this association by a fine mapping approach using both a traditional phenotypic association analysis and a quantitative trait (QT) analysis using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau protein levels in the German population. Here, we report that both methodologies identify that the H1c haplotype may play important role in AD (AD risk, P=0.007, uncorrected; CSF tau levels, P=0.027, uncorrected). Further, the use of a sliding window approach in the QT analysis allowed for the narrowing down of the region where a probable causal variant may be located. The data suggest that this may lie at or within close proximity to the rs242557 single nucleotide polymorphism as association with CSF tau levels seems to be primarily driven by rs242557 in a gene dosage-dependent manner (trend model: P=0.002, uncorrected). These findings provide functional evidence to support the genetic association of MAPT with AD.
Amyloid beta peptide ratio 42/40 but not A beta 42 correlates with phospho-Tau in patients with low- and high-CSF A beta 40 load.	Neurochemical dementia diagnostics (NDD) can significantly improve the clinically based categorization of patients with early dementia disorders, and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid beta peptides ending at the amino acid position of 42 (A beta x-42 and A beta 1-42) are widely accepted biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in subjects with constitutively high- or low-CSF concentrations of total A beta peptides (tA beta), the NDD interpretation might lead to erroneous conclusions as these biomarkers seem to correlate better with the total A beta load than with the pathological status of a given patient in such cases. In this multicenter study, we found significantly increased CSF concentrations of phosphorylated Tau (pTau181) and total Tau in the group of subjects with high CSF A beta x-40 concentrations and decreased A beta x-42/x-40 concentration ratio compared with the group of subjects with low CSF A beta x-40 and normal A beta ratio (p<0.001 in both cases). Furthermore, we observed significantly decreased A beta ratio (p<0.01) in the group of subjects with APOE epsilon 4 allele compared with the group of subjects without this allele. Surprisingly, patients with low-A beta x-40 and the decreased A beta ratio characterized with decreased pTau181 (p<0.05), and unaltered total Tau compared with the subjects with high A beta x-40 and the A beta ratio in the normal range. We conclude that the amyloid beta concentration ratio should replace the 'raw' concentrations of corresponding A beta peptides to improve reliability of the neurochemical dementia diagnosis.
Increased tau protein differentiates mild cognitive impairment from geriatric depression and predicts conversion to dementia.	Significantly increased cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) total tau (t-tau) and phosphorylated at threonine 181 tau (p-tau) levels were frequently found in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who have an increased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Though MCI often overlaps with depressive symptoms making early diagnosis difficult, to date no CSF marker has been probed to support the differential diagnosis of geriatric major depressive disorder and MCI eventually converting to AD. CSF levels of t-tau and p-tau were determined by ELISA in 80 subjects with MCI (aging associated cognitive decline criteria), 54 patients with major depression and 24 cognitively healthy controls. Patients were reassessed after a follow-up period of at least 12 month. During follow-up, 29% of the MCI patients but only one patient with major depression converted to AD. Already at baseline converters to AD were characterized by significantly higher t-tau and p-tau levels compared to non-converters and the other diagnostic groups. Our findings demonstrate that both, CSF t-tau and p-tau levels facilitate the differential diagnosis of MCI and are of prognostic value.
One hundred years of Alzheimer's disease: immunotherapy a hope?]	In 1906 Alois Alzheimer, described the cerebral lesions characteristic of the disorder that received his name: senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is now, 100 years after, the most prevalent form of dementia in the world. The longer life expectancy and aging of the population renders it as a serious public health problem of the future. Urgent methods of diagnosis and treatment are required, since the definitive diagnosis of AD continues to be neuropathologic. In the last 30 years several drugs have been approved to retard the progression of the disease; however, there are still no curative or preventive treatments. Although still in experimentation, the visualization of amyloid deposition by positron emission tomography or magnetic resonance imaging will allow in vivo diagnosis of AD. In addition, experiments with the amyloid vaccine are still ongoing, and very recent data suggest that intravenous gammaglobulins may be beneficial and safe for the treatment of AD.
Diagnostic accuracy of ELISA and xMAP technology for analysis of amyloid beta(42) and tau proteins.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid beta(42) (Abeta(42)) peptides and tau proteins may serve as biomarkers for Alzheimer disease (AD). Recently, the xMAP technology has been introduced as an alternative to ELISA for measurement of these markers.
Cerebrospinal fluid total tau protein levels in patients with multiple sclerosis.	Tau protein is present in the microtubules of axons. Markers of various types have been used to demonstrate multiple sclerosis (MS) activity and axonal damage. This study aimed to demonstrate the association between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau protein concentrations and clinical prognosis in MS patients.
Near a biological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders]	To review the current concepts in the biological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders.
Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid of Alzheimer patients. Biomarkers and toxic properties.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe, progressive and chronic disorder with strong cognitive deficits. Diagnosis of probable AD can be performed by measuring biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The aim of the present study was to measure CSF levels of nerve growth factor (NGF), the anti-NGF auto-antibody, and the cholinesterases AChE and BChE, and to correlate them with beta-amyloid, tau and phospho-tau-181. We could show that NGF-like immunoreactivity, but not anti-NGF auto-antibody, was significantly enhanced in AD patients compared to healthy subjects, while both cholinesterases were not changed. beta-Amyloid(1-42) was decreased, while tau and phospho-tau-181 were increased. The commercial Promega NGF ELISA detected mature NGF but not wild-type-human-pro-NGF. Using a bioassay of brain slices, we showed that recombinant mature NGF enhanced survival of cholinergic neurons, while wild-type human pro-NGF displayed a less pronounced effect. The addition of CSF to brain slices exhibited strong toxic effects on the survival of cholinergic neurons. We conclude that in CSF of AD patients (at least partly) mature NGF-like immunoreactivity is enhanced, and is masked in a bioassay by the toxic properties of CSF.
Cortical binding of pittsburgh compound B, an endophenotype for genetic studies of Alzheimer's disease.	To date, all known Alzheimer's disease genes influence amyloid beta (Abeta). Imaging of Abeta deposition in the human brain using Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) offers the possibility of using cortical PIB binding as a quantitative endophenotype for genetic studies of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD).
Converging molecular pathways in human neural development and degeneration.	Animal studies suggest that phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau is a physiological way of destabilizing axons in the developing brain, promoting synaptic plasticity, while in the adult human brain tau phosphorylation is a specific sign of Alzheimer's disease. We here show, for the first time, that newborn human infants have extremely high levels of phosphorylated tau in their cerebrospinal fluid, and that these levels decrease during the first years of life. Tau phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease may be a physiological response to Alzheimer-associated synaptotoxicity.
Combining MR imaging, positron-emission tomography, and CSF biomarkers in the diagnosis and prognosis of Alzheimer disease.	Different biomarkers for AD may potentially be complementary in diagnosis and prognosis of AD. Our aim was to combine MR imaging, FDG-PET, and CSF biomarkers in the diagnostic classification and 2-year prognosis of MCI and AD, by examining the following: 1) which measures are most sensitive to diagnostic status, 2) to what extent the methods provide unique information in diagnostic classification, and 3) which measures are most predictive of clinical decline.
CSF biomarkers in prediction of cerebral and clinical change in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.	Brain atrophy and altered CSF levels of amyloid beta (Abeta(42)) and the microtubule-associated protein tau are potent biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related pathology. However, the relationship between CSF biomarkers and brain morphometry is poorly understood. Thus, we addressed the following questions. (1) Can CSF biomarker levels explain the morphometric differences between normal controls (NC) and patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or AD? (2) How are CSF biomarkers related to atrophy across the brain? (3) How closely are CSF biomarkers and morphometry related to clinical change [clinical dementia rating sum of boxes (CDR-sb)]? Three hundred seventy participants (105 NC, 175 MCI, 90 AD) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative were studied, of whom 309 were followed for 1 year and 176 for 2 years. Analyses were performed across the entire cortical surface, as well as for 30 cortical and subcortical regions of interest. Results showed that CSF biomarker levels could not account for group differences in brain morphometry at baseline but that CSF biomarker levels showed moderate relationships to longitudinal atrophy rates in numerous brain areas, not restricted to medial temporal structures. Baseline morphometry was at least as predictive of atrophy as were CSF biomarkers. Even MCI patients with levels of Abeta(42) comparable with controls and of p-tau lower than controls showed more atrophy than the controls. Morphometry predicted change in CDR-sb better than did CSF biomarkers. These results indicate that morphometric changes in MCI and AD are not secondary to CSF biomarker changes and that the two types of biomarkers yield complementary information.
Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and memory present distinct associations along the continuum from healthy subjects to AD patients.	The objective was to study the association between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of amyloid-β (Aβ)(1-42), t-tau, and p-tau and cognitive performance along the Alzheimer's disease (AD) continuum from healthy subjects to AD patients and, specifically, among patients in the pre-dementia stage of the disease. A total of 101 subjects were studied: 19 healthy controls (CTR), 17 subjects with subjective memory complaints (SMC), 47 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 18 AD patients. Only memory performance significantly correlated with CSF levels of Aβ(1-42), t-tau, and p-tau along the AD continuum. Subgroup analyses revealed that in SMC patients Aβ(1-42) levels positively correlated with the total recall score of the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test (FCRST) (r = 0.666; p < 0.005), Digit Span (r = 0.752; p < 0.005), and CERAD world list learning (r = 0.697; p < 0.005). In MCI patients, a significant inverse correlation was found between the word list recall score from the CERAD and t-tau (r = -0.483; p < 0.005) and p-tau levels (r = -0.495; p < 0.005), as well as between the total recall subtest score from the FCRST and both t-tau (r = -0.420; p < 0.005) and p-tau levels (r = -0.422; p < 0.005). No significant correlations were found between other aspects of cognition and CSF levels in CTR or AD patients. These results indicate that memory performance is related to Aβ(1-42) levels in SMC, while it is associated with tau in the prodromal stage of the disease. This suggests that in the continuum from healthy aging to AD, memory performance is first related with Aβ(1-42) levels and then with t-tau or p-tau, before becoming independent of biomarker levels in the dementia stage.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau, p-tau 181 and amyloid-β38/40/42 in frontotemporal dementias and primary progressive aphasias.	We determined cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid-β (Aβ)(1-38), Aβ(1-40), Aβ(1-42), total tau and phospho-tau (p-tau) in order to study their differential expression in frontotemporal dementia (FTD, n = 25) and primary progressive aphasia (PPA, n = 12) as compared to Alzheimer's dementia (AD, n = 25) and nondemented controls (n = 20).
Gamma-secretase-dependent amyloid-beta is increased in Niemann-Pick type C: a cross-sectional study.	Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is an inherited disorder characterized by intracellular accumulation of lipids such as cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in endosomes and lysosomes. This accumulation induces progressive degeneration of the nervous system. NPC shows some intriguing similarities with Alzheimer disease (AD), including neurofibrillary tangles, but patients with NPC generally lack amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques. Lipids affect γ-secretase-dependent amyloid precursor protein (APP) metabolism that generates Aβ in vitro, but this has been difficult to prove in vivo. Our aim was to assess the effect of altered lipid constituents in neuronal membranes on amyloidogenic APP processing in humans.
Axonal damage in relapsing multiple sclerosis is markedly reduced by natalizumab.	The impact of present disease-modifying treatments (DMTs) in multiple sclerosis (MS) on nerve injury and reactive astrogliosis is still unclear. Therefore, we studied the effect of natalizumab treatment on the release of 2 brain-specific tissue damage markers into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in MS patients.
Qualification of the analytical and clinical performance of CSF biomarker analyses in ADNI.	The close correlation between abnormally low pre-mortem cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid-β1-42 (Aβ(1-42)) and plaque burden measured by amyloid imaging as well as between pathologically increased levels of CSF tau and the extent of neurodegeneration measured by MRI has led to growing interest in using these biomarkers to predict the presence of AD plaque and tangle pathology. A challenge for the widespread use of these CSF biomarkers is the high variability in the assays used to measure these analytes which has been ascribed to multiple pre-analytical and analytical test performance factors. To address this challenge, we conducted a seven-center inter-laboratory standardization study for CSF total tau (t-tau), phospho-tau (p-tau(181)) and Aβ(1-42) as part of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Aliquots prepared from five CSF pools assembled from multiple elderly controls (n = 3) and AD patients (n = 2) were the primary test samples analyzed in each of three analytical runs by the participating laboratories using a common batch of research use only immunoassay reagents (INNO-BIA AlzBio3, xMAP technology, from Innogenetics) on the Luminex analytical platform. To account for the combined effects on overall precision of CSF samples (fixed effect), different laboratories and analytical runs (random effects), these data were analyzed by mixed-effects modeling with the following results: within center %CV 95% CI values (mean) of 4.0-6.0% (5.3%) for CSF Aβ(1-42); 6.4-6.8% (6.7%) for t-tau and 5.5-18.0% (10.8%) for p-tau(181) and inter-center %CV 95% CI range of 15.9-19.8% (17.9%) for Aβ(1-42), 9.6-15.2% (13.1%) for t-tau and 11.3-18.2% (14.6%) for p-tau(181). Long-term experience by the ADNI biomarker core laboratory replicated this degree of within-center precision. Diagnostic threshold CSF concentrations for Aβ(1-42) and for the ratio t-tau/Aβ(1-42) were determined in an ADNI independent, autopsy-confirmed AD cohort from whom ante-mortem CSF was obtained, and a clinically defined group of cognitively normal controls (NCs) provides statistically significant separation of those who progressed from MCI to AD in the ADNI study. These data suggest that interrogation of ante-mortem CSF in cognitively impaired individuals to determine levels of t-tau, p-tau(181) and Aβ(1-42), together with MRI and amyloid imaging biomarkers, could replace autopsy confirmation of AD plaque and tangle pathology as the "gold standard" for the diagnosis of definite AD in the near future.
Tau transgenic mice as models for cerebrospinal fluid tau biomarkers.	Levels of tau in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are elevated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. It is believed this elevation is related to the tau pathology and neurodegeneration observed in AD, but not all tauopathies have increased CSF tau. There has been little pre-clinical work to investigate mechanisms of increased CSF tau due to the difficulty in collecting CSF samples from mice, the most commonly used pre-clinical models. We developed methods to collect CSF from mice without contamination from tau in brain tissue, which is approximately 50,000 fold more abundant in brain than CSF. Using these methods, we measured CSF tau from 3xTg, Tg4510, and Tau Alone transgenic mice. All three lines of mice showed age-dependent increases in CSF tau. They varied in phenotype from undetectable to severe tau pathology and neurodegeneration, suggesting that degenerating neurons are unlikely to be the only source of pathologic CSF tau. Overall, CSF tau levels mirrored expression levels and changes of tau in the brain, but they did not always correlate exactly. CSF tau was often more sensitive to changes in brain transgene expression and pathology. In addition, we also developed ELISA assays specific to different regions of the tau protein. We used these assays to provide evidence that CSF tau exists as fragments, with little intact C-terminus and partial loss of the N-terminus. Taken together, these assays and mouse models may be used to facilitate a deeper understanding of CSF tau in neurodegenerative disease.
Disease-modifying properties of long-term lithium treatment for amnestic mild cognitive impairment: randomised controlled trial.	Two recent clinical studies support the feasibility of trials to evaluate the disease-modifying properties of lithium in Alzheimer's disease, although no benefits were obtained from short-term treatment.
The Alzheimer's Association external quality control program for cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers.	The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers amyloid β (Aβ)-42, total-tau (T-tau), and phosphorylated-tau (P-tau) demonstrate good diagnostic accuracy for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, there are large variations in biomarker measurements between studies, and between and within laboratories. The Alzheimer's Association has initiated a global quality control program to estimate and monitor variability of measurements, quantify batch-to-batch assay variations, and identify sources of variability. In this article, we present the results from the first two rounds of the program.
Extended results of the Alzheimer's disease anti-inflammatory prevention trial.	Epidemiologic evidence suggests that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) delay onset of Alzheimer's dementia (AD), but randomized trials show no benefit from NSAIDs in patients with symptomatic AD. The Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT) randomized 2,528 elderly persons to naproxen or celecoxib versus placebo for 2 years (standard deviation = 11 months) before treatments were terminated. During the treatment interval, 32 cases of AD revealed increased rates in both NSAID-assigned groups.
Prion disease]	Human prion diseases are classified into 3 categories according to etiologies: idiopathic of unknown cause, acquired of infectious origin, and genetic by PRNP mutation. The surveillance committee have analyzed 2,494 cases and identified 1,402 as prion diseases. Most of them are idiopathic, namely sporadic CJD (77%) with less genetic and acquired prion diseases (17% and 5%, respectively). The number of patients identified by the surveillance committee in these years is about 120 which are less than the number of annual death of prion disease. The difference might be due to partly the fact our surveillance need the consent from patients' family and is not complete. The mean age at onset of prion disease is late 60s while the range is fairly wide. Brain MRIs and increase of CSF 14-3-3 and tau protein levels are very characteristic. Classical sporadic CJD could show completely normal T1WI with patchy high signals in the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia on DWI. In Japan, classical sporadic CJD (MM1) is most popular but there are some rare atypical subtypes. Among them, MM2-thalamic CJD is hardest to diagnose because it shows no high intensity signals on DWI, in addition to frequent absence of CSF and EEG characteristics. In this case, CBF decrease in the thalamus on SPECT is very helpful. Genetic prion diseases in Japan are quite distinct from those in Europe. V180I and M232R mutations are unique to Japan and show sporadic CJD phenotype. Dura graft-associated CJD (dCJD) are composed of 67% of classical sporadic CJD phenotype and 33% of atypical phenotype showing slower progression with amyloid plaques. Trace-back experiments suggested the PrP(sc) of the atypical dCJD was likely to be modified from infection of abnormal VV2 protein. Although there are some atypical forms of prion diseases as mentioned above, almost all prion cases could be diagnosed with EEG, MRI, genetic test, CSF test and SPECT. We also have some incidents in which brain surgery was done before the diagnosis of prion disease and many other patients were operated using the same operating instruments before their sterilization against prion disease had been done. The explanation of possibility of prion disease infection to the patients and their follow-up was started by the incident committee. It is very important for all the nations to cooperate with each other in order to overcome this intractable disease.
Diagnostic value of CSF biomarker profile in idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus; leucine-rich α-2-glycoprotein is a potential biological marker]	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting can improve symptoms of elderly patients idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH). However, adjunctive means for confirming the diagnosis remain unavailable. We have previously reported specific increase of leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein (LRG) in iNPH CSF, and present study investigates its potential clinical applications.
Once upon a cataract surgeon.	A 60-year-old man presented with diplopia and neurocognitive deficits, which progressed rapidly over several months. Magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed bilateral signal abnormalities and diffusion-weighted imaging restriction in bilateral basal ganglia, thalami, mesial temporal regions, and periaqueductal gray matter. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was positive for 14-3-3 and tau proteins. The patient developed progressive neurocognitive decline followed by sleep disturbance and myoclonic jerking consistent with probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Cerebrospinal fluid levels of Aβ42 relationship with cholinergic cortical activity in Alzheimer's disease patients.	The dysfunction of cholinergic neurons is a typical hallmark in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In animal models of AD, fragments of amyloid beta protein (Aβ) and Tau protein are thought to interfere with central cholinergic transmission, specifically with synthesis and release of acetylcholine. Thus, we aimed to investigate whether the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of Aβ42 and Tau proteins in AD patients could influence physiological central cholinergic activity. In AD patients (n = 19), central cholinergic function was evaluated in vivo by using short afferent latency inhibition (SLAI), and compared to age-matched healthy controls. In the same AD patients, CSF samples were collected through lumbar puncture to obtain individual levels of Aβ42, total Tau (t-Tau) and phosphorylated Tau (p-Tau) (Thr181). SLAI was decreased in AD patients in comparison to age-matched healthy controls. We found that in patients there was a negative correlation between the individual amount of cholinergic activity assessed by SLAI and the CSF levels of Aβ42. On the other hand, there was a positive correlation between the levels of SLAI and CSF p-Tau. No correlation was found when SLAI was analysed together with t-Tau. These results demonstrate that mechanisms of cortical cholinergic activity are altered in patients bearing a pathological CSF hallmark of AD, suggesting that these peptides may have some influence on the cholinergic dysfunction in AD. We suggest that coupling of CSF biomarkers with neurophysiological parameters of central cholinergic function could be important to better detect ongoing mechanisms of neural degeneration in vivo.
Plasmin system of Alzheimer's disease patients: CSF analysis.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the extracellular deposit of Amyloid beta (Aβ), mainly of the Amyloid beta(1-42) (Aβ(1-42)) peptide in the hippocampus and neocortex leading to progressive cognitive decline and dementia. The possible imbalance between the Aβ production/degradation process was suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. Among others, the serine protease plasmin has shown to be involved in Aβ(1-42) clearance, a hypothesis strengthened by neuropathological studies on AD brains. To explore whether there is a change in plasmin system in CSF of AD patients, we analyzed CSF samples from AD and age-matched controls, looking at plasminogen, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) protein levels and t-PA and urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA) enzymatic activities. We also measured Aβ(1-42), total-tau and phospho-tau (181) CSF levels and sought for a possible relationship between them and plasmin system values. Our findings showed that t-PA, plasminogen and PAI-1 levels, as t-PA enzymatic activity, remained unchanged in AD with respect to controls; u-PA activity was not detected. We conclude that CSF analysis of plasminogen system does not reflect changes observed post-mortem. Unfortunately, the CSF detection of plasmin system could not be a useful biomarker for either AD diagnosis or disease progression. However, these findings do not exclude the possible involvement of the plasmin system in AD.
Cerebrospinal fluid β-amyloid 1-42 correlates with rate of progression in Alzheimer's disease.	Emerging treatment options targeting the pathogenetic mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the need to monitor efficacy during treatment trials necessitate the use of biomarkers, which not only may facilitate early and reliable diagnosis, but may also assist in the stratification of patient populations according to their rate of progression. The objective of the present study is to examine whether demographic and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) parameters at initial evaluation [total tau, tau phosphorylated at threonine-181 and amyloid-beta(1-42) (Aβ42)] can be used to discriminate between slow and rapid progressors in patients with AD. A total of 74 AD patients were included in the study. Patients recruited were divided into slow and rapid progressors according to their Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score decline before evaluation. Patients with a drop rate of >4/year were considered rapid progressors. Commercially available ELISA kits were used for measuring CSF biomarkers. Comparisons were performed using analysis of covariance. Significantly lower Aβ42 levels in the CSF were found in rapid (mean 392 pg/ml) as compared to slow progressors (mean 453 pg/ml), with a p value of 0.042. The results of the present study suggest that levels of the Aβ42 peptide may be related to the rate of disease progression. Further studies with a prospective design are needed in order to test the possible predictive value of CSF Aβ42 analysis.
Rapidly progressive Alzheimer's disease: a multicenter update.	The objective was to characterize a rapidly progressive subtype of Alzheimer's disease (rpAD). Multicenter (France, Germany, Japan, Spain) retrospective analyses of neuropathologically confirmed rpAD cases initially classified as prion disease due to their clinical phenotype were performed. Genetic properties, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, neuropathology, and clinical features were examined. Eighty-nine patients were included (median survival 10 months). APOE and PRNP codon 129 genotype distribution paralleled a healthy control group. APOE ε4 homozygosity was absent. Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers were abnormal, but within a range as expected for classic AD, except for proteins 14-3-3, which were detectable in 42%. Thus, evidence of the existence of rpAD is accumulating. The APOE profile is intriguing, suggesting that this very rapid disease form might represent a distinct subtype of Alzheimer's disease.
Longitudinal cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers over four years in mild cognitive impairment.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measurements of amyloid-β42 (Aβ42), total-tau (T-tau), and phosphorylated tau (P-tau) may be used to predict future Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The precise temporal development of these biomarkers in relation to clinical progression is unclear. Earlier studies have been hampered by short follow-up. In an MCI cohort, we selected 15 patients who developed AD (MCI-AD) and 15 who remained cognitively stable during 4 years of follow-up. CSF was sampled at three serial occasions from each patient and analyzed for Aβ peptides, the soluble amyloid-β protein precursor protein fragments sAβPPα and sAβPPβ, T-tau, P-tau, and chromogranin B, which is a protein linked to regulated neuronal secretion. We also measured, for the first time in MCI patients, an extended panel of Aβ peptides by matrix-assisted-laser-desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MS). Most biomarkers were surprisingly stable over the four years with coefficients of variation below or close to 10%. However, MCI-AD patients decreased in CSF AβX₋₄₀ and chromogranin B concentrations, which may indicate a reduced number of functional neurons or synapses with disease progression. The MS Aβ peptide panel was more useful than any single Aβ peptide to identify MCI-AD patients already at baseline. Knowledge on these biomarkers and their trajectories may facilitate early diagnosis of AD and be useful in future clinical trials to track effects of disease modifying drugs.
Cerebrospinal fluid levels of complement proteins C3, C4 and CR1 in Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is strongly associated with loss of synapses. The complement system has been shown to be involved in synaptic elimination. Several studies point to an association between AD and the complement system. The purpose of this study was to examine the association of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of complement components 3 and 4 (C3 and C4, respectively), and complement receptor 1 (CR1) with AD in 43 patients with AD plus dementia, 42 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who progressed to AD during follow-up (MCI-AD), 42 patients with stable MCI and 44 controls. Complement levels were also applied in a multivariate model to determine if they provided any added value to the core AD biomarkers Aβ42, T-tau and P-tau. We found elevated CSF levels of C3 and C4 in AD compared with MCI without progression to AD, and elevated CSF levels of CR1 in MCI-AD and AD when these groups were merged. These results provide support for aberrant complement regulation as a part in the AD process, but the changes are not diagnostically useful.
CSF biomarkers cutoffs: the importance of coincident neuropathological diseases.	The effects of applying clinical versus neuropathological diagnosis and the inclusion of cases with coincident neuropathological diagnoses have not been assessed specifically when studying cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker classification cutoffs for patients with neurodegenerative diseases that cause dementia. Thus, 142 neuropathologically diagnosed neurodegenerative dementia patients [71 Alzheimer's disease (AD), 29 frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), 3 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 7 dementia with Lewy bodies, 32 of which cases also had coincident diagnoses] were studied. 96 % had enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) CSF data and 77 % had Luminex CSF data, with 43 and 46 controls for comparison, respectively. Aβ(42), total, and phosphorylated tau(181) were measured. Clinical and neuropathological diagnoses showed an 81.4 % overall agreement. Both assays showed high sensitivity and specificity to classify AD subjects against FTLD subjects and controls, and moderate sensitivity and specificity for classifying FTLD subjects against controls. However, among the cases with neuropathological diagnoses of AD plus another pathology (26.8 % of the sample), 69.4 % (ELISA) and 96.4 % (Luminex) were classified as AD according to their biomarker profiles. Use of clinical diagnosis instead of neuropathological diagnosis led to a 14-17 % underestimation of the biomarker accuracy. These results show that while CSF Aβ and tau assays are useful for diagnosis of AD and neurodegenerative diseases even at MCI stages, CSF diagnostic analyte panels that establish a positive diagnosis of Lewy body disease and FTLD are also needed, and must be established based on neuropathological rather than clinical diagnoses.
Optimisation of the quantification of glutamine synthetase and myelin basic protein in cerebrospinal fluid by a combined acidification and neutralisation protocol.	The measurement of proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) is becoming increasingly important in the diagnosis of many neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease. However, detection of proteins in these immunoassays can be hampered by confounding factors either present in the sample matrix or inherent to the protein of interest. These confounding factors may, for example, include protein aggregation or binding to other proteins resulting in epitope masking. Furthermore, the pH of CSF may vary considerably amongst different samples which may limit standardisation of CSF analysis. Pre-treatment of CSF to liberate epitopes or optimise conditions for antibody binding may enhance protein detection. In the current study we investigated whether CSF acidification followed by neutralisation (in short: AFBN) or neutralisation alone prior to measurement might improve the detection of a panel of brain-specific proteins. We demonstrate that the AFBN pre-treatment protocol for CSF significantly enhances the measurement of glutamine synthetase (GS) and myelin basic protein (MBP) in CSF but does not affect detection of glial fibrillary protein (GFAP), amyloid β 42 (Aβ₄₂), total tau (t-tau) or phosphorylated tau (p-tau). Neutralisation alone did not improve detection of any of the proteins tested. Based on our results, we suggest including the AFBN protocol in the evaluation of new biomarker development protocols to avoid confounders such as CSF pH or epitope-masking of the target protein.
CSF markers in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, 'Lou Gehrig disease') is the most common, progressive, neurodegenerative, motor neuron disease, causing damage to upper and lower motor neurons, leading to paralysis and death within 3-5 years. Majority of ALS cases are sporadic ALS (SALS) and only 5-10 % of cases are familial ALS (FALS). Pathogenesis of ALS is complicated and still unclear, including genetic, glutamate excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, neurofilament accumulation, impaired trophic support, altered glial function, viral infection, immune imbalance and impairment of the blood-brain, blood-spinal cord and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers (BBB/BSCB/BCSFB). The CSF analysis is still one of the basic laboratory tools and might reflect pathophysiological alterations in the course of the disease and could provide an insight into disease pathomechanisms. The most important aim of its analysis is evaluation of blood-CSF barrier, which is altered in 46 % of ALS patients. The CSF biomarkers may give insight into ALS pathophysiology and may be useful for early, presymptomatic diagnosis, therapeutic monitoring and the development of new therapeutic strategies. This review summarizes the general concepts of biomarkers in CSF of ALS patients and their potential usefulness in further research.
Monte Carlo feature selection and rule-based models to predict Alzheimer's disease in mild cognitive impairment.	The objective of the present study was to evaluate a Monte Carlo feature selection (MCFS) and rough set Rosetta pipeline for generating rule-based models as a tool for comprehensive risk estimates for future Alzheimer's disease (AD) in individual patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Risk estimates were generated on the basis of age, gender, Mini-Mental State Examination scores, apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers total tau (T-tau), phospho-tau(181) (P-tau) and the 42 amino acid form of amyloid β (Aβ42) in two sets of longitudinally followed MCI patients (n = 217 in total). The predictive model was created in Rosetta, evaluated with the standard tenfold cross-validation approach and tested on an external set. Features were ranked and selected by the MCFS algorithm. Using the combined pipeline of MCFS and Rosetta, it was possible to predict AD among patients with MCI with an area under the receiver operating characteristics curve of 0.92. Risk estimates were produced for the individual patients and showed good correlation with actual diagnosis in cross validation, and on an external dataset from a new study. Analysis of the importance of attributes showed that the biochemical CSF markers contributed the most to the predictions, and that added value was gained by combining several biochemical markers. Despite a correlation with the biochemical markers, the genetic marker APOE ε4 did not contribute to the predictive power of the model.
Combining MRI and CSF measures for classification of Alzheimer's disease and prediction of mild cognitive impairment conversion.	The suggested revision of the NINCDS-ADRDA criterion for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) includes at least one abnormal biomarker among magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We aimed to investigate if the combination of baseline MRI and CSF could enhance the classification of AD compared to using either alone and predict mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion at multiple future time points. 369 subjects from the Alzheimer's disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were included in the study (AD=96, MCI=162 and CTL=111). Freesurfer was used to generate regional subcortical volumes and cortical thickness measures. A total of 60 variables were used for orthogonal partial least squares to latent structures (OPLS) multivariate analysis (57 MRI measures and 3 CSF measures: Aβ(42), t-tau and p-tau). Combining MRI and CSF gave the best results for distinguishing AD vs. CTL. We found an accuracy of 91.8% for the combined model at baseline compared to 81.6% for CSF measures and 87.0% for MRI measures alone. The combined model also gave the best accuracy when distinguishing between MCI vs. CTL (77.6%) at baseline. MCI subjects who converted to AD by 12 and 18month follow-up were accurately predicted at baseline using an AD vs. CTL model (82.9% and 86.4% respectively), with lower prediction accuracies for those MCI subjects converting by 24 and 36month follow up (75.4% and 68.0% respectively). The overall prediction accuracies for converters and non-converters ranged from 58.6% to 66.4% at different time points. Combining MRI and CSF measures in a multivariate model at baseline gave better accuracy for discriminating between AD and CTL, between MCI and CTL and for predicting future conversion from MCI to AD, than using either MRI or CSF separately.
Biomarker of dementia: clinical and preclinical diagnosis]	Recent advances in biomarker studies on dementia are summarized here. CSF Abeta40, Abeta42, total tau and phosphorylated tau are most sensitive biomarkers for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and prediction of onset of AD from mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Based on this progress, new diagnostic criteria for AD, MCI and preclinical AD were proposed by National Institute of Aging (NIA) and Alzheimer' s Association. In these new criteria, progress in biomarker identification and amyloid imaging studies in the past 10 years have added critical information. Huge contributions of basic and clinical studies have established clinical evidence supporting these markers. Based on this progress, essential therapy for cure of AD is urgently expected.
CSF biomarkers in children with acute encephalopathy syndrome]	Viral infection-associated acute encephalopathy in children is a clinical syndrome with high mortality and neurological sequelae. Its main symptoms of acute phase are impaired consciousness and convulsive status epilepticus with hyperpyrexia. Acute encephalopathy with biphasic seizures and late reduced diffusion (AESD) is characterized clinically by biphasic seizures and late MRI abnormalities such as reduced subcortical diffusion. Despite the intensive care, patients with AESD often have severe neurological impairment and it is very difficult to distinguish AESD from febrile seizures in the early phase. Although there is currently no specific biomarker for early diagnosis of acute encephalopathy syndrome, we believe tau protein and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) are potential biomarkers which could be useful in following the clinical course and monitoring the efficacy of therapies.
Increased concentration of the CSF Tau protein and its phosphorylated form in the late juvenile metachromatic leukodystrophy form: a case report.	Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is an autosomal recessive, lysosomal storage disease due to deficiency or absence of arylsulfatase A enzyme (ASA) with sulfatide accumulation in the central and peripheral nervous system, kidneys, and gallbladder, leading to many dysfunctions. One of the clinical forms of the disease is a late juvenile MLD. To our best knowledge, this is the first report describing increased Tau/pTau and normal Aβ1-42 concentrations in the CSF of the late juvenile MLD patient.
The impact of cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers on the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.	The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers β-amyloid(1-42) (Aβ(1-42)), total tau protein (T-tau), and tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (P-tau(181P)) are gradually finding their way into routine clinical practice as an affirmative diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's disease (AD). These biomarkers have also been implemented in the revised diagnostic criteria for AD. The combination of the CSF biomarkers Aβ(1-42), T-tau, and P-tau(181P) leads to high (around 80%) levels of sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy for discrimination between AD and controls (including psychiatric disorders like depression) and can be applied for diagnosing AD in the predementia phases of the disease (mild cognitive impairment). The added value of CSF biomarkers could lie within those cases in which the clinical diagnostic work-up is not able to discriminate between AD and non-AD dementias. However, their discriminatory power for the differential diagnosis of dementia is suboptimal. Other CSF biomarkers, especially those that are reflective of the pathology of non-AD dementia etiologies, could improve the accuracy of differential dementia diagnosis. CSF biomarkers will be of help to establish a correct and early AD diagnosis, even in the preclinical stages of the disease, which will be of importance once disease-modifying drugs for AD become available. Variation in biomarker measurements still jeopardize the introduction of CSF biomarkers into routine clinical practice and clinical trials, but several national and international standardization initiatives are ongoing.
Gender modulates the APOE ε4 effect in healthy older adults: convergent evidence from functional brain connectivity and spinal fluid tau levels.	We examined whether the effect of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype on functional brain connectivity is modulated by gender in healthy older human adults. Our results confirm significantly decreased connectivity in the default mode network in healthy older APOE ε4 carriers compared with ε3 homozygotes. More important, further testing revealed a significant interaction between APOE genotype and gender in the precuneus, a major default mode hub. Female ε4 carriers showed significantly reduced default mode connectivity compared with either female ε3 homozygotes or male ε4 carriers, whereas male ε4 carriers differed minimally from male ε3 homozygotes. An additional analysis in an independent sample of healthy elderly using an independent marker of Alzheimer's disease, i.e., spinal fluid levels of tau, provided corresponding evidence for this gender-by-APOE interaction. Together, these results converge with previous work showing a higher prevalence of the ε4 allele among women with Alzheimer's disease and, critically, demonstrate that this interaction between APOE genotype and gender is detectable in the preclinical period.
CSF biomarkers correlate with cerebral blood flow on SPECT in healthy elderly.	The preclinical patterns of biological markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in vivo need further exploration. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate CSF biomarkers, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive performance in cognitively healthy older individuals.
Comparison of cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers between idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus and subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced chronic hydrocephalus: a pilot study.	We examined the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH)-induced and idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) to investigate the pathophysiology and mechanism of communicating hydrocephalus compared to obstructive hydrocephalus.
Prognostic value of brain injury biomarkers in acute encephalitis/encephalopathy.	Acute encephalitis/encephalopathy (AEE) is a devastating cause of severe neurodevelopmental sequelae or death in children. Assessing ongoing brain injury and predicting outcomes using bedside point-of-care testing is expected to be extremely valuable.
Longitudinal assessment of tau and amyloid beta in cerebrospinal fluid of Parkinson disease.	Tau gene has been consistently associated with the risk of Parkinson disease in recent genome wide association studies. In addition, alterations of the levels of total tau, phosphorylated tau [181P], and amyloid beta 1-42 in cerebrospinal fluid have been reported in patients with sporadic Parkinson disease and asymptomatic carriers of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mutations, in patterns that clearly differ from those typically described for patients with Alzheimer disease. To further determine the potential roles of these molecules in Parkinson disease pathogenesis and/or in tracking the disease progression, especially at early stages, the current study assessed all three proteins in 403 Parkinson disease patients enrolled in the DATATOP (Deprenyl and tocopherol antioxidative therapy of parkinsonism) placebo-controlled clinical trial, the largest cohort to date with cerebrospinal fluid samples collected longitudinally. These initially drug-naive patients at early disease stages were clinically evaluated, and cerebrospinal fluid was collected at baseline and then at endpoint, defined as the time at which symptomatic anti-Parkinson disease medications were determined to be required. General linear models were used to test for associations between baseline cerebrospinal fluid biomarker levels or their rates of change and changes in the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (total or part III motor score) over time. Robust associations among candidate markers are readily noted. Baseline levels of amyloid beta were weakly but negatively correlated with baseline Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale total scores. Baseline phosphorylated tau/total tau and phosphorylated tau/amyloid beta were significantly and negatively correlated with the rates of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale change. While medications (deprenyl and/or tocopherol) did not appear to alter biomarkers appreciably, a weak but significant positive correlation between the rate of change in total tau or total tau/amyloid beta levels and the change of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale was observed. Notably, these correlations did not appear to be influenced by APOE genotype. These results are one of the very first pieces of evidence suggesting that tau and amyloid beta are critically involved in early Parkinson disease progression, potentially by a different mechanism than that in Alzheimer disease, although their applications as Parkinson disease progression markers will likely require the addition of other proteins. 
Cerebrospinal fluid Aβ1-40 improves differential dementia diagnosis in patients with intermediate P-tau181P levels.	It is assumed that the concentration of amyloid-β1-40 (Aβ1-40) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) reflects the total amount of Aβ protein in the brain and thus allows a better interpretation of inter-individual differences in Aβ quantity than the Aβ1-42 concentration. In this study, Aβ1-40 was added to the existing CSF biomarker panel of Aβ1-42, total tau (T-tau), and phosphorylated tau (P-tau181P) in order to test whether the accuracy of the differential dementia diagnosis improved. The concentration of Aβ1-40 (INNOTEST® β-amyloid(1-40) prototype version, Innogenetics NV, Belgium) and the other biomarkers (INNOTEST®) was determined in CSF samples from 80 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 75 non-AD dementia patients, and 30 controls. A large proportion of the study population had autopsy-confirmed neurodegeneration (AD: 73/80 = 91%; non-AD: 38/75 = 51%). The levels of Aβ1-40 were decreased in AD (10856 ± 4745 pg/mL) and non-AD patients (10519 ± 4491 pg/mL) when compared to controls (14760 ± 7846 pg/mL) (p = 0.002 and p = 0.001). The Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio was significantly decreased in AD (0.043 ± 0.021) as compared to non-AD patients (0.064 ± 0.027; p < 0.001) and controls (0.053 ± 0.023; p < 0.001). In order to differentiate AD from non-AD patients, a decision tree was constructed. The diagnostic accuracy of the decision tree that contained Aβ1-42, Aβ1-40, P-tau181P, and the Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio was significantly better than the diagnostic accuracy (80% versus 74%) of the decision tree without Aβ1-40 and the Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio (p < 0.001). In conclusion, no difference in Aβ1-40 CSF levels was found between AD and non-AD patients, but adding CSF Aβ1-40 and the CSF Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio to a biomarker-based decision tree, might have an added value for discriminating AD from non-AD patients in case of intermediate CSF P-tau181P values. 
Intraneuronal tau aggregation precedes diffuse plaque deposition, but amyloid-β changes occur before increases of tau in cerebrospinal fluid.	In comparison to the levels in age and gender-matched controls, reduced levels of pathological amyloid-β protein in cerebrospinal fluid routinely precede the onset of Alzheimer's disease-related symptoms by several years, whereas elevated soluble abnormal tau fractions (phosphorylated tau, total tau protein) in cerebrospinal fluid are detectable only with the onset and progression of clinical symptoms. This sequence of events in cerebrospinal fluid (amyloid-β changes detectable prior to abnormal tau changes) contrasts with that in which both proteins develop in the brain, where intraneuronal tau inclusions (pretangles, neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads) appear decades before the deposition of amyloid-β plaques (diffuse plaques, neuritic plaques). This viewpoint attempts to address questions arising in connection with this apparent sequential discrepancy-questions and issues for which there are currently no clear-cut answers. 
Adjustment for measurement error in evaluating diagnostic biomarkers by using an internal reliability sample.	Biomarkers are often measured with error due to imperfect lab conditions or temporal variability within subjects. Using an internal reliability sample of the biomarker, we develop a parametric bias-correction approach for estimating a variety of diagnostic performance measures including sensitivity, specificity, the Youden index with its associated optimal cut-point, positive and negative predictive values, and positive and negative diagnostic likelihood ratios when the biomarker is subject to measurement error. We derive the asymptotic properties of the proposed likelihood-based estimators and show that they are consistent and asymptotically normally distributed. We propose confidence intervals for these estimators and confidence bands for the receiver operating characteristic curve. We demonstrate through extensive simulations that the proposed approach removes the bias due to measurement error and outperforms the naïve approach (which ignores the measurement error) in both point and interval estimation. We also derive the asymptotic bias of naïve estimates and discuss conditions in which naïve estimates of the diagnostic measures are biased toward estimates produced when the biomarker is ineffective (i.e., when sensitivity equals 1 - specificity) or are anticonservatively biased. The proposed method has broad biomedical applications and is illustrated using a biomarker study in Alzheimer's disease. We recommend collecting an internal reliability sample during the biomarker discovery phase in order to adequately evaluate the performance of biomarkers with careful adjustment for measurement error.
CSF α-synuclein improves diagnostic and prognostic performance of CSF tau and Aβ in Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Lewy body diseases (LBD), e.g., Parkinson's disease (PD) dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), are common causes of geriatric cognitive impairments. In addition, AD and LBD are often found in the same patients at autopsy; therefore, biomarkers that can detect the presence of both pathologies in living subjects are needed. In this investigation, we report the assessment of α-synuclein (α-syn) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and its association with CSF total tau (t-tau), phosphorylated tau181 (p-tau181), and amyloid beta1-42 (Aβ1-42) in subjects of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI; n = 389), with longitudinal clinical assessments. A strong correlation was noted between α-syn and t-tau in controls, as well as in patients with AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, the correlation is not specific to subjects in the ADNI cohort, as it was also seen in PD patients and controls enrolled in the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI; n = 102). A bimodal distribution of CSF α-syn levels was observed in the ADNI cohort, with high levels of α-syn in the subjects with abnormally increased t-tau values. Although a correlation was also noted between α-syn and p-tau181, there was a mismatch (α-syn-p-tau181-Mis), i.e., higher p-tau181 levels accompanied by lower α-syn levels in a subset of ADNI patients. We hypothesize that this α-syn-p-tau181-Mis is a CSF signature of concomitant LBD pathology in AD patients. Hence, we suggest that inclusion of measures of CSF α-syn and calculation of α-syn-p-tau181-Mis improves the diagnostic sensitivity/specificity of classic CSF AD biomarkers and better predicts longitudinal cognitive changes. 
Longitudinal change in CSF Tau and Aβ biomarkers for up to 48 months in ADNI.	The dynamics of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau and Aβ biomarkers over time in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients from prodromal pre-symptomatic to severe stages of dementia have not been clearly defined and recent studies, most of which are cross-sectional, present conflicting findings. To clarify this issue, we analyzed the longitudinal CSF tau and Aβ biomarker data from 142 of the AD Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) study subjects [18 AD, 74 mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 50 cognitively normal subjects (CN)]. Yearly follow-up CSF collections and studies were conducted for up to 48 months (median = 36 months) for CSF Aβ1-42, phosphorylated tau (p-tau181), and total tau (t-tau). An unsupervised analysis of longitudinal measurements revealed that for Aβ1-42 and p-tau181 biomarkers there was a group of subjects with stable longitudinal CSF biomarkers measures and a group of subjects who showed a decrease (Aβ1-42, mean = -9.2 pg/ml/year) or increase (p-tau181, mean = 5.1 pg/ml/year) of these biomarker values. Low baseline Aβ1-42 values were associated with longitudinal increases in p-tau181. Conversely, high baseline p-tau181 values were not associated with changes in Aβ1-42 levels. When the subjects with normal baseline biomarkers and stable concentrations during follow-up were excluded, the expected time to reach abnormal CSF levels and the mean AD values was significantly shortened. Thus, our data demonstrate for the first time that there are distinct populations of ADNI subjects with abnormal longitudinal changes in CSF p-tau181 and Aβ1-42 levels, and our longitudinal results favor the hypothesis that Aβ1-42 changes precede p-tau181 changes.
Cerebrospinal Flt3 ligand correlates to tau protein levels in primary Sjögren's syndrome.	Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is an autoimmune disease affecting the exocrine glands and internal organs including the central nervous system (CNS). The fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (Flt3L) is a maturation factor essential for brain homeostasis. Blood levels of Flt3L are increased in inflammatory diseases including the inflamed salivary glands in pSS. The present study evaluated the role of Flt3L in the CNS of patients with pSS and in two non-autoimmune conditions, fibromyalgia (FM) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia and ischemic stroke patients: a critical analysis.	Vascular factors are thought to contribute to the development of disease pathology in neurodegenerative dementia such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Another entity, called vascular dementia (VaD), comprises a less defined group of dementia patients having various vascular diseases that especially emerge in the elderly population and require valid options for examination and differential diagnosis. In the context of a retrospective study, we analyzed the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers t-tau, p-tau and Aß42 of a total of 131 patients with AD (n = 47), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (n = 22), VaD (n = 44) and stroke (n = 18). We found a remarkable alteration in CSF biomarker profile in AD, VaD and in acute ischemic events. CSF profile in AD patients was altered in a very similar way as in stroke patients, without statistical differences. In stroke, increase depend largely on size and duration after the initial event. Total tau levels were useful to differ between VaD and stroke. Aß42 decreased in a similar way in AD, VaD and stroke and had a trend to lower levels in MCI but not in controls. 
The relationship between the diagnosis method of neuronal dysfunction (DIMENSION) and brain pathology in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.	To examine whether the diagnosis method of neuronal dysfunction (DIMENSION), a new electroencephalogram (EEG) analysis method, reflected pathological changes in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we conducted a comparative study of cerebrospinal fluid markers and single-photon emission computed tomography.
Interaction between sleep-disordered breathing and apolipoprotein E genotype on cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease in cognitively normal elderly individuals.	Previous studies have suggested a link between sleep disordered breathing (SDB) and dementia risk. In the present study, we analyzed the relationship between SDB severity, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Alzheimer's disease-biomarkers, and the ApoE alleles. A total of 95 cognitively normal elderly participants were analyzed for SDB severity, CSF measures of phosphorylated-tau (p-tau), total-tau (t-tau), and amyloid beta 42 (Aβ-42), as well as ApoE allele status. In ApoE3+ subjects, significant differences were found between sleep groups for p-tau (F[df2] = 4.3, p = 0.017), and t-tau (F[df2] = 3.3, p = 0.043). Additionally, among ApoE3+ subjects, the apnea and/or hypopnea with 4% O2-desaturation index was positively correlated with p-tau (r = 0.30, p = 0.023), t-tau (r = 0.31, p = 0.021), and Aβ-42 (r = 0.31, p = 0.021). In ApoE2+ subjects, the apnea and/or hypopnea with 4% O2-desaturation index was correlated with lower levels of CSF Aβ-42 (r = -0.71, p = 0.004), similarly to ApoE4+ subjects where there was also a trend toward lower CSF Aβ-42 levels. Our observations suggest that there is an association between SDB and CSF Alzheimer's disease-biomarkers in cognitively normal elderly individuals. Existing therapies for SDB such as continuous positive airway pressure could delay the onset to mild cognitive impairment or dementia in normal elderly individuals.
Amyloid beta 1-42 and tau in the cerebrospinal fluid of renal failure patients for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Aβ42, total tau and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) are well-defined diagnostic markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). There has been no previous report of the use of these markers in the diagnosis of AD in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We would like to report our preliminary findings on these biomarkers in three patients with renal failure. One patient with a clinical diagnosis of AD showed elevated CSF tau, p-tau 181, and decreased Aβ42 levels, within a similar range as in local Chinese AD patients without renal impairment. The other two delirious patients, who did not have a clinical diagnosis of AD, showed normal CSF biomarkers. We found that the diagnosis of AD with CSF biomarkers appears to be useful in renal failure patients. But our results need to be confirmed in a larger study, comparing these CSF biomarkers in AD vs. non-AD patients with concomitant CKD. 
Further evidence about the crucial role of CSF biomarkers in diagnosis of posterior cortical atrophy.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers (protein tau, phosphorylated tau and amyloid Beta 1-42) are recognized as a supportive feature in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their role in identifying atypical variants of AD is currently under investigation. We dosed these proteins in nine patients clinically and instrumentally affected by posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), a rare disorder characterized by a progressive neurodegenerative process that involves primarily the posterior brain regions. We compared the obtained values with a large group of AD patients (N = 117), recruited in our neurological department. Our data revealed no differences in the CSF profile between PCA and AD, showing abnormal values of protein tau, phosphorylated tau and amyloid Beta 1-42 in both groups of patients. This study underlines the diagnostic importance of CSF biomarkers in PCA patients, supporting the hypothesis that PCA is an atypical variant of AD with an onset before the age of 65.
Poor memory performance in aged cynomolgus monkeys with hippocampal atrophy, depletion of amyloid beta 1-42 and accumulation of tau proteins in cerebrospinal fluid.	Due to their similarities in behavior and disease pathology to humans, non-human primate models are desirable to complement small animals as models for the study of age-related dementia.
Tau protein in cerebrospinal fluid: a new diagnostic and prognostic marker in Alzheimer disease?	Tau is the main protein of paired helical filaments. It can be detected and measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and for this reason it has been proposed as a possible in vivo marker of Alzheimer disease (AD). To evaluate the usefulness of CSF tau in the diagnosis of AD we measured it in patients with AD, frontal lobe dementia (FLD), vascular dementia (VD), and in healthy controls by means of a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test. Individuals with AD had significantly higher tau levels than FLD, VD, and controls. Individuals with late onset AD had significantly higher levels than those with early onset disease. In AD, CSF tau level did not correlate with age, duration, or severity of the disease, whereas a correlation with age was found in FLD and controls. In the nine AD patients in whom CSF tau measurement was repeated after 2 years, mean levels did not differ from baseline, although a worsening of cognitive performances occurred. The overlap among the different groups and the absence of any modification over time suggest that CSF tau measurement, more than in confirming or staging overt AD, might be useful in revealing the disease at its preclinical phase.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau protein is not elevated in HIV-associated neurologic disease in humans. HIV Neurobehavioral Research Center Group (HNRC).	We measured the concentrations of the neuron-specific protein, tau, in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 32 neurologically characterized HIV-infected (HIVpos) subjects and nine matched seronegative (HIVneg) controls using a sensitive ELISA assay. Of 32 HIVpos subjects, nine had HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, and nine had clinically diagnosed peripheral neuropathies. CSF tau levels in subjects with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders were similar to those in HIVneg subjects (185 +/- 83 vs. 223 +/- 106 pg/ml; P = 57). CSF tau levels in HIVpos subjects with peripheral neuropathies did not differ from those without neuropathies (320 +/- 190 vs. 251 +/- 185; P = 23). In summary, CSF tau levels were not elevated in patients with HIV-associated neurologic disease.
Apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele in association with global cognitive performance and CSF markers in Alzheimer's disease.	To better define the influence of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon 4 genotype on the cognitive and biochemical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), cross-sectional analysis of global cognitive measures and cerebrospinal fluid studies gathered on AD subjects at a tertiary care facility between 1986 and 1997 was carried out. The 112 AD patients examined included 62 women and 50 men with a mean (SD) age of 64.2 (9.2) years. Patient demographics; illness onset age and duration, education level and global cognitive measures were recorded systematically. Genetic analysis for ApoE allele type and biochemical characterization of CSF, including total tau concentration, was performed. Descriptive statistics of demographics, cognitive and CSF measures were performed by chi-square, ANOVA and Tukey's tests. Overrepresentation of the epsilon 4 allele was found, with 45.5% of AD patients heterozygous and 20.5% homozygous for ApoE epsilon 4. Overall, ApoE epsilon 4 status had no effect on mean onset age of AD (F = 1.56; p = 0.214), but an earlier mean onset age of AD (F = 4.10; p = 0.02) was seen in the late-onset subjects. No differences were found with regard to ApoE epsilon 4 status and measures of disease, duration of illness or global cognitive performance. Although CSF tau was elevated in our sample (575.4 +/- 290.3 pg/ml), ApoE epsilon 4 status did not influence total CSF tau or neurotransmitter metabolite levels. ApoE epsilon 4 genotype had no impact on a variety of illness severity, cognitive and CSF examinations in the largest cross-sectional analysis of AD subjects yet reported.
No increase in cerebrospinal fluid tau protein levels in patients with vascular dementia.	Tau protein levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF-tau) were determined in 29 patients with old cerebrovascular disease (CVD, 21 demented and eight non-demented), 69 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 17 age-matched normal controls. The CSF-tau level in the vascular dementia (VD) group (24.0 +/- 17.0 pg/ml) was significantly lower (P < 0.0001) than that in the AD group (90.0 +/- 45.3 pg/ml), but not significantly different from that in the non-demented patients with CVD (18.1 +/- 10.2 pg/ml) or controls (20.3 +/- 13.0 pg/ml). Among the VD patients, 1/21 exceeded a cut-off value (mean +/- 2 SD of controls), whereas 8/69 of the AD patients had CSF-tau levels below this value. These findings suggest that VD constitutes a group of dementias that can be separated from AD by normal CSF-tau levels. CSF-tau determinations in combination with other clinical findings may provide another diagnostic aid in the differential diagnosis between VD and AD.
