Biological markers in CSF and blood for axonal degeneration in multiple sclerosis.	Biomarkers in body fluids could help to predict and monitor neurological decline in people with multiple sclerosis (MS). We discuss markers for axonal damage in body fluids in people with MS. The most promising axonal marker for discriminating patients with MS from those with other neurological diseases is the neurofilament light chain in CSF. Antibodies against the heavy-chain isoform are associated with disease progression. Other studies have shown altered CSF concentrations of tau proteins, actin, tubulin, and 14-3-3 protein. Interestingly, the concentration of 24S-hydroxycholesterol was decreased in serum of patients with MS. No clear changes have been shown for the markers apolipoprotein E and neurospecific enolase. We describe three types of markers for axonal damage: markers that reflect processes in the CNS, those that reflect extraneural processes, and those that reflect whole-body changes. These concepts may be helpful for biomarker research in various neurodegenerative diseases.
Cerebrospinal fluid tau/beta-amyloid(42) ratio as a prediction of cognitive decline in nondemented older adults.	To investigate the ability of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma measures to discriminate early-stage Alzheimer disease (AD) (defined by clinical criteria and presence/absence of brain amyloid) from nondemented aging and to assess whether these biomarkers can predict future dementia in cognitively normal individuals.
The value of serum tau protein for the diagnosis of intracranial injury in minor head trauma.	Tau protein localizes in the axons of neuron cells, and it is released secondarily from the central nervous system because of hypoxia and trauma. In the present study, it was aimed to investigate the value of serum tau protein levels in diagnosing intracranial pathologies in minor head trauma.
Brain injury in the context of tauopathies.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the most common form of head injury and is a leading cause of death worldwide. Due to the vast variability in the types and severity of trauma, the cellular consequences of head injury are not completely understood. The development of reliable models of TBI will aid in understanding the molecular consequences of head trauma, and they will assist in identifying biological surrogate markers of the degree of damage and prognosis. In doing so, effective therapeutic strategies can be applied. Current in vivo experimental models yield important information, but they too have a significant amount of variation. The goal of this review is to re-evaluate the use of these in vivo models of TBI and assess whether they correlate with the consequence of TBI in humans from the perspective of tau, an axonal microtubule-stabilizing protein. We present and discuss the current models of traumatic head injury, and we focus on those that assess changes in tau. We evaluate reports of TBI in humans that measured changes in tau and that were detectable in serum and cerebrospinal fluid, and as a pathological consequence in brain tissue. 
