Taurine selectively modulates the secretory activity of vasopressin neurons in conscious rats.	Previous experiments have shown that a 10-min forced swimming session triggers the release of vasopressin from somata and dendrites, but not axon terminals, of neurons of the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system. To further investigate regulatory mechanisms underlying this dissociated release, we forced male Wistar rats to swim in warm (20 degrees C) water and monitored release of the potentially inhibitory amino acids gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) and taurine into the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus using microdialysis. Forced swimming caused a significant increase in the release of taurine (up to 350%; P < 0.05 vs. prestress release), but not GABA. To reveal the physiological significance of centrally released taurine, the specific taurine antagonist 6-aminomethyl-3-methyl-4H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-1,1-dioxide was administered into the supraoptic nucleus via retrodialysis. Administration of this antagonist caused a significant increase in the release of vasopressin within the supraoptic nucleus and into the blood both under basal conditions and during stress (up to 800%; P < 0.05 vs. basal values), without affecting hypothalamic or plasma oxytocin. Local administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, in contrast, failed to influence vasopressin secretion at either time point. In a separate series of in vivo electrophysiological experiments, administration of the same dosage of the taurine antagonist into the supraoptic nucleus via microdialysis resulted in an increased electrical activity of identified vasopressinergic, but not oxytocinergic, neurons. Taken together our data demonstrate that taurine is released within the supraoptic nucleus during physical/emotional stress. Furthermore, at the level of the supraoptic nucleus, taurine inhibits not only the electrical activity of vasopressin neurons but also acts as an inhibitor of both central and peripheral vasopressin secretion during different physiological states.
Chronic ethanol ingestion induces oxidative kidney injury through taurine-inhibitable inflammation.	Chronic ethanol ingestion mildly damages liver through oxidative stress and lipid oxidation, which is ameliorated by dietary supplementation with the anti-inflammatory β-amino acid taurine. Kidney, like liver, expresses cytochrome P450 2E1 that catabolizes ethanol with free radical formation, and so also may be damaged by ethanol catabolism. Sudden loss of kidney function, and not liver disease itself, foreshadows mortality in patients with alcoholic hepatitis [J. Altamirano, Clin. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 2012, 10:65]. We found that ethanol ingestion in the Lieber-deCarli rat model increased kidney lipid oxidation, 4-hydroxynonenal protein adduction, and oxidatively truncated phospholipids that attract and activate leukocytes. Chronic ethanol ingestion increased myeloperoxidase-expressing cells in kidney and induced an inflammatory cell infiltrate. Apoptotic terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick-end labeling-positive cells and active caspase-3 increased in kidney after ethanol ingestion, with reduced filtration with increased circulating blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine. These events were accompanied by release of albumin, myeloperoxidase, and the acute kidney injury biomarkers kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, and cystatin c into urine. Taurine sequesters HOCl from myeloperoxidase of activated leukocytes, and taurine supplementation reduced renal lipid oxidation, reduced leukocyte infiltration, and reduced the increase in myeloperoxidase-positive cells during ethanol feeding. Taurine supplementation also normalized circulating BUN and creatinine levels and suppressed enhanced myeloperoxidase, albumin, KIM-1, and cystatin c in urine. Thus, chronic ethanol ingestion oxidatively damages kidney lipids and proteins, damages renal function, and induces acute kidney injury through an inflammatory cell infiltrate. The anti-inflammatory nutraceutical taurine effectively interrupts this ethanol-induced inflammatory cycle in kidney. 
The epileptogenic action of 6-aminomethyl-3-methyl,1-4H-1,2,6-benzothiadiazine-1,1-diazide hydrochloride (TAG): non-specific versus specific antitaurine pathogenesis.	Cortical superfusion with 6-aminomethyl-3-methyl, 1-4H-1,2,6-benzothiadiazine-1,1-diazide hydrocholoride (TAG) at a concentration which selectively blocks taurine (Tau) action fails to modify electroencephalographic (EEG) activity, cortical neuronal firing and caudate-induced inhibition of cortical neuronal activity. Higher concentrations of TAG increase neuronal firing rate and eventually induce EEG interictal spikes that can be suppressed by topical gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), but not by glycine or beta-alanine. Topical Tau consistently enhances the epileptiform activity. It is concluded that specific blockade of Tau does not affect any of the physiological function under observation and that the epileptogenic effect of TAG is due to its GABA antagonistic action.
Basolateral taurine transport system in reptilian renal cells.	The characteristics of taurine transport across renal basolateral membranes were examined, using basolateral membrane vesicles (BLMV) isolated from garter snake (Thamnophis spp.) kidneys. BLMV fraction exhibited high enrichment for the basolateral marker enzyme, Na(+)-K(+)-adenosinetriphosphatase (23-fold), with approximately 10% contamination by brush-border membranes. Taurine uptake into BLMV was specifically stimulated by inwardly directed Na+ gradient in the presence of Cl-. Equilibrium NaCl condition and replacement of NaCl gradient by KCl, choline chloride, NaSCN, sodium gluconate, or mannitol inhibited taurine uptake. Unlike brush-border membrane vesicles (BBMV), taurine uptake into BLMV was not stimulated by a Cl- gradient. In further contrast to BBMV, BLMV taurine uptake was smaller in magnitude and not electrogenic. The stoichiometric relationship between Na+ and BLMV taurine uptake, determined by activation method, indicated a 1 Na+:1 taurine interaction, in contrast to the 3 Na+:1 taurine stoichiometry for BBMV taurine transport. Bromcresol green inhibited BBMV taurine transport but had no effect on BLMV taurine uptake. Efflux of taurine from BLMV was faster than that from BBMV. Unlike BBMV, the BLMV efflux was stimulated by external taurine. The observed characteristics of taurine transport on both membranes would integratively result in net transepithelial reabsorption of taurine across renal cells of the garter snake, a species that demonstrates both net reabsorption and secretion of taurine in vivo.
Net taurine transport and its inhibition by a taurine antagonist.	P2-fractions were isolated from rat brain, and used to study net taurine transport. The fractions were incubated in increasing concentrations of [3H]taurine and the intraterminal concentration measured by liquid scintillation and amino acid analysis. The membrane potential of the isolated fractions was estimated using 86Rb+ as a marker for intracellular K+. Taurine was synthesized in the P2-fraction when incubated in taurine free medium. At external taurine concentrations below 370 microM a significant amount of the endogenous taurine was released to the incubation medium. Net taurine uptake into the P2-fraction was achieved at external taurine concentrations exceeding 370 microM. The taurine antagonist 6-aminomethyl-3-methyl-4H, 1, 2, 4-benzothiadiazine-1, 1-dioxide (TAG) competitively inhibited taurine and [3H]taurine transport into the P2-fraction. As the external concentration of taurine was increased, the accumulation of 86Rb+ into the P2-fraction was facilitated. This indicated an increasing hyperpolarization of the neuronal membrane as taurine transport shifted from release towards uptake. TAG reduced the hyperpolarization that paralleled taurine accumulation, in a dose dependent manner. Our results indicate that relatively low transmembranal gradients of taurine may be maintained by an electrogenic taurine transporter having a large transport capacity. Such a transporter may well serve the needs of osmotic regulation, i.e. to transport large amounts of taurine in any direction across the neuronal membrane.
Taurine promotes the differentiation of a vertebrate retinal cell type in vitro.	The retina offers a model system for investigating the mechanisms that control cell type determination and differentiation in the vertebrate central nervous system. Previously, rod photoreceptor development in vitro was found to require a diffusible activity released by retinal cells (D. Altshuler and C. Cepko, Development 114, 947-957, 1992). In this report, we show that retinal-cell-conditioned medium and extracts contain two separable activities that influence rod development: a > 10 kDa inhibitory activity, and a stimulatory activity that is < 1 kDa and heat stable. Taurine was found to be a component of the < 1 kDa fraction and to stimulate rod development when added to retinal cultures. Taurine was not the only rod-promoting factor in these retinal preparations, however, as conditioned medium and extracts stimulated a higher level of rod development than did taurine alone. Taurine uptake into cells could be blocked without inhibiting taurine's ability to stimulate rod development, arguing against an osmoregulatory or nutritive mechanism of action. Finally, a competitive antagonist of taurine's bioactivity was identified and shown partially to inhibit rod development in retinal explants, suggesting that taurine may normally act to stimulate rod development in the retina. These results provide evidence for three activities, one of which is taurine, that are candidate regulators of rod photoreceptor development in vivo.
