Microcirculatory changes in sodium taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats.	Using an in vivo microscopy technique, we studied the microcirculatory changes in sodium taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats. With a computerized image analyzer system, blood flow, vascular permeability changes, and capillary densities were measured. Intraductal infusion of 0.4 ml saline had only minor effects on the microcirculation. Various concentrations and volumes of sodium taurocholate solutions were infused into the pancreatic duct. Sodium taurocholate (0.4 ml, 4%) led to increased vascular permeability preceding stasis within 232 +/- 47 s, followed by hemorrhagic necrosis in the head of the pancreas. In the corpus close to the tail of the pancreas capillary blood flow was maintained. In conclusion, this study shows that the microcirculation of the pancreas can be excellently investigated with in vivo microscopy. With this method, tremendous distribution disturbances of the microcirculation in the pancreas can be seen in the course of acute pancreatitis. Vascular permeability changes and stasis of the microcirculation represent the primary microcirculatory events in acute pancreatitis induced by sodium taurocholate in the areas where hemorrhagic necrosis occurs.
Treatment of established taurocholate-induced chronic erosive gastritis in rats with cimetidine.	The study investigated whether cimetidine could heal chronic erosive gastritis induced experimentally in rats by the administration of taurocholate for 6 months. Taurocholate gastritis is associated with mucosal erosions, the infiltration of inflammatory cells, reduction of the parietal cell mass, reduction of mucosal thickness, and interstitial fibrosis, a histopathological picture similar to that of human erosive gastritis. Microscopic quantitative morphological studies were used to determine the effect of cimetidine administered freely to rats for two weeks in the form of food containing 0.4 or 0.8% of the agent after the withdrawal of taurocholate. Basal acid secretion was analysed in rats with pyloric ligation 12 hours after withdrawal of the cimetidine-containing food. Basal gastrin levels were determined after a 12-hour fast by radioimmunoassay. The total length of the mucosal erosions was significantly decreased in the cimetidine-treated rats of Group A (cimetidine: 400 mg/kg/day: median 294.6 mm) and Group B (800 mg/kg/day; 225.7 mm) when compared to Group C (control gastritis group; 626.4 mm). Both the grade of inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis were also significantly reduced in Groups A and B compared with Group C. The number of parietal cells per unit area (A: 101.0, B: 108.8) and the mucosal thickness of the fundic mucosa (A: 0.610, B: 0.710) and of the antral mucosa (A: 0.220, B: 0.240) were greater in Groups A and B than in Group C (85.1 and 0.52 of the fundic mucosa, 0.170 of the antral mucosa, respectively). Basal acid secretion was significantly inhibited in Groups A and B (31.8 and 26.3 mu Eq/hr/100 g body weight, respectively) when compared to Group C (69.6 mu Eq/hr/100 g body weight). Basal serum gastrin levels were significantly higher in Groups A and B (198.1 and 210.5 pg/ml, respectively) than in Group C (98.7 pg/ml). It was concluded from these results that cimetidine had a curative effect on chronic erosive gastritis induced experimentally by taurocholate. The inhibition of acid and gastrin secretion may play an important role in the mechanism of its action.
Further study of experimental gastritis in rats: endocrine and neurocrine profile.	We conducted this study to identify the endocrine and neurocrine mechanisms of gastric mucosal protection in rats with experimental atrophic gastritis (erosive atrophic antritis) induced by prolonged exposure to taurocholate. This resulting gastritis was characterized by a significant reduction of parietal cell mass, a decrease in mucosal thickness, decreased numbers of pyloric glands, infiltration by inflammatory cells, and fibrotic proliferation in the gastric mucosa. Mucosal erosions were also prominent. These morphologic and morphometric findings indicate the presence of erosive atrophic gastritis, as previously described. Fasting levels of serum gastrin increased significantly in the rats with gastritis versus controls, whereas the mucosal gastrin levels did not differ significantly from those of controls. Mucosal levels of somatostatin decreased significantly, and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) increased significantly in the pyloric sphincter region. These findings suggest that these peptides and neuropeptides are involved in the induction of this form of gastritis. The peptides may play an important role in the mechanisms of gastric mucosal protection (i.e., gastrin is an aggressive and somatostatin is a defensive factor, and VIP promotes the reflux of bile into the stomach by relaxing the pyloric sphincter).
Influence of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on experimental pancreatitis in rats.	The main purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of thyroid releasing hormone on acute sodium-taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats. Thyroid-releasing hormone did not change the survival rate, serum amylase, glucose calcium, liver transaminases levels or the degree of pancreatic damage, but reduced lactate dehydrogenase. Our findings suggest that the use of thyroid-releasing hormone has no beneficial effect on the course of acute experimental pancreatitis.
