Towns breathe new life into closed hospitals.	Most of the time, when a hospital closes, it closes for good. But once in a while the community is shocked into realizing it has to support the local hospital and use it, or it won't be around when they want it. Modern Healthcare profiles some of these rebirths, some vigorous and others still struggling.
Ore. bills aim to protect exemptions.	At the request of the Oregon Assn. of Hospitals, state lawmakers have introduced several bills aiming to thwart or limit challenges to tax exemptions for the state's not-for-profit organizations. Tax-relief initiatives are expected to start squeezing local governments' revenues, making not-for-profits an increasingly attractive target for taxation. Hospital officials are seeking statutes that explicitly outline the obligations of their tax exemptions.
Medicaid wrap-up.	The 72nd Legislature restored Medicaid cuts, expanded coverage for infants and pregnant women. While no dramatic changes are right around the corner, Texas is poised for a major re-examination of the Medicaid program.
Hospital-physician joint ventures: new, menacing IRS stance.	To summarize, legitimate joint ventures between hospitals and members of their medical staffs to improve and increase the health care services and facilities available to the community are still possible without jeopardizing exemption. However, in joint ventures, and ultimately, in most other hospital-physician relationships, any time financial benefits are to be conferred upon physicians by the exempt hospital in which they practice, the hospital must be able to justify those benefits on the basis of benefits flowing directly to the community, and not indirectly through the increased referrals and admissions that the hospital expects to obtain.
The art of the deal: health policy making on the fly.	In September 1991 the Health Care Financing Administration touched off a two-month scramble by issuing regulations sharply curtailing states' use of voluntary donations and provider taxes to raise money for Medicaid. Days and nights of intrigue and dealmaking followed. Finally, on the day before Thanksgiving, Congress, the Administration, and the nation's governors agreed to a deal that may resolve the matter. During the course of those talks, all sides honed their negotiating skills and, in the process, uncovered basic flaws in the U.S. health care system.
Legal reality for physicians.	The practice of medicine as we have known it is rapidly becoming a "dinosaur" giving way to more complex business and legal relationships among physicians. Quality medical care, however, does not have to become obsolete. As physicians begin to collaborate with each other to survive and thrive in an increasingly competitive environment, their collective influence over payors and other guardians of the cost of health care should focus on ensuring the preservation of quality medical care. By minimizing the adverse consequences of administrative burdens on individual practices, physicians should be able to maximize their practice efficiency and earning potential while preserving their goal of providing quality medical care.
IRS General Counsel Memorandum threatens some hospital-physician joint ventures.	To defend against the heightened scrutiny of hospital-physician relations expected from the IRS, hospital management should closely examine any activities now conducted with physicians to determine whether each activity, as organized and operated, furthers the hospital's charitable mission of promoting the health of its community, rather than merely enhancing the financial health of the institution itself. Any arrangements that do not appear to satisfy the principles enunciated in GCM 39862 should be examined to see if they should be restructured or dissolved. In structuring new transactions and examining existing arrangements, the following principles should be kept in mind: 1. Transactions should not be premised upon increased utilization or physician referrals. Enhancing or protecting market share, even for the purpose of preserving an institution's presence in the community, will likely no longer be accepted as a justification for pursuing joint venture arrangements. In justifying such ventures, management must distinguish between benefit to the community and benefit to the institution. 2. Transactions whereby existing services or equipment are "spun off" to a hospital-physician joint venture run a serious risk of enhanced IRS scrutiny. 3. Transactions creating or providing new facilities or services should be more favorably perceived, particularly where participants other than the hospital take an active role in managing the venture. Where the hospital is the sole general partner and merely manages what it would have managed had there been no physician investors, the question of why physicians are involved will likely be of greater concern than it has been in the past.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tax-exempt status and the provision of charity care. Increasing congressional scrutiny.	Tax-exempt status has received considerable attention recently, primarily within the hospital industry. Examination of this issue also is valuable to the home care sector of the health care delivery system. Given the current economic environment, nonprofit organizations are being challenged to justify their tax-exempt status on the local, state, and federal levels. Instances of revocation of real estate tax exemption are becoming increasingly common in the nursing home sector; can the effect on home care be far behind?
Why nonprofits? Hospitals and the future of American health care.	The future of the nonprofit hospital depends on its relationship to the for-profit and governmental sectors of our economy. A decade ago, the primary challenge came from the growing investor-owned hospital companies. Nonprofit hospitals' responses--both competitive and imitative--led to new challenges from government regarding tax-exempt status. The reasons underlying this challenge include the growing commercialism of health care, the nation's failure to deal directly with the problem of the uninsured, and the lack of a coherent theory of tax exemption. Although hospitals are likely to retain exemptions from federal taxation, challenges to local tax exemptions are likely to continue. Strategies that hospitals pursue for competitive purposes may undercut their legitimacy as tax-exempt institutions, but several groups are working to address the issue.
Recruiting physicians: avoiding the legal minefield.	This article identifies and discusses the legal problems and pitfalls associated with the implementation of a physician recruitment program. Careful structuring is necessary to strike a balance meeting the requirements of both the Internal Revenue Code and the Medicare fraud and abuse provisions. The various tax considerations that may affect physician recruitment are comprehensively analyzed. Similar analysis is made of the Medicare fraud and abuse statute. Also included is a list of items that must be taken into consideration when embarking on a physician recruitment program.
Tax exemptions for Pa. hospitals could hinge on high court's ruling.	Not-for-profit organizations in Pennsylvania, especially hospitals, are awaiting a decision by the state's high court concerning a nursing home's property tax exemption. Unless the Supreme Court agrees to hear the case and then reverses the lower-court ruling, state hospital officials fear it could become virtually impossible for any organization to obtain a property tax exemption.
Who's in charge?	President Clinton's health care reform plan avoids the appearance of government control by diffusing and delegating authority to a host of new institutions. The net result, ironically, may be a system that is less accountable to the public than one in which government's role is clearer.
Recent developments for tax-exempt healthcare organizations.	Significant developments in the law of tax-exempt healthcare organizations occurred during the early 1990s. The span of developments includes a seminal Seventh Circuit case, Living Faith v. Commissioner, as well as an Internal Revenue Service determination letter recognizing the charitable tax status of integrated delivery systems, showing the recent activitism of the IRS in the healthcare arena. In addition, the federal and state courts have struggled to define and apply concepts of community benefit and charity to modern healthcare organizations.
Know the effects of not-for-profit conversions.	Because Congress and the business community currently are challenging established traditions regarding hospitals' tax status, healthcare administrators considering converting a public hospital to a not-for-profit structure must understand the tax consequences of such a move. A public hospital's conversion to not-for-profit status can affect its reporting requirements, unrelated business income tax, access to tax-exempt financing, ability to attract charitable contributions, required charter and bylaw amendments, compensation flexibility, public disclosure, and the ability to reconsider a conversion decision.
Strategies can enhance rural hospital viability.	Although some rural hospitals struggle to remain financially viable, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) often shows greater flexibility in interpreting regulations for tax-exempt hospitals in rural areas. To take advantage of this flexibility, rural facilities should understand issues affecting Federal tax-exempt status, such as private benefit, private inurement, and unrelated business income. A not-for-profit, rural healthcare facility well versed in tax-exempt regulations and their interpretations by the IRS can structure recruitment and retention programs, joint ventures, unrelated businesses, and even cooperative coalitions to enhance its financial well-being without endangering its tax exemption.
IRS views on physician control of integrated networks.	Integrated delivery systems and their components are evolving rapidly, as are Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax-exemption rulings and standards affecting these entities. A common concern addressed by two recent IRS tax-exemption rulings centered on the impact of physician involvement on a hospital's tax-exempt status.
IRS offers guidance on physician practice valuation.	Many healthcare organizations are acquiring physician practices in response to competitive pressures. But little guidance has been available in regard to issues such as private inurement and payment for referral charges. The Internal Revenue Service, however, has recently issued detailed guidance concerning such issues.
The effects of the ADA on group practice.	In this article, James Frierson, J.D., outlines the requirements for group practices under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Rules concerning required changes take effect in January of 1993 (and sooner for some groups), making it imperative that group practices be aware of the new law.
Special report on taxation. Court of Appeals denies tax exemption based on "substantial commercial purpose".	When viewed against the background of continuing state and federal legislative efforts to limit the availability of tax-exempt status, the Living Faith case could be seen as yet another indication of difficult times ahead for nonprofit providers. Although it is too early to tell whether this will in fact be the case, tax-exempt providers should be aware of the Living Faith case as perhaps the clearest statement from a federal appeals court in recent years that the operation of an enterprise in too businesslike a manner may make it a taxable activity. Tax-exempt providers that now operate or plan to operate ancillary businesses, whether through joint ventures, wholly-owned subsidiaries, or otherwise, should carefully evaluate such activities against the criteria articulated in Living Faith. This analysis is important not only for purposes of determining whether such activities can qualify for tax-exempt status in and of themselves, but also as an indicator of how such activities might affect the tax-exempt status of the provider.
Failure by certain charitable organizations to meet certain qualification requirements; taxes on excess benefit transactions--IRS. Correction to notice of proposed rulemaking.	This document contains a correction to REG-245256-94, which was published in the Federal Register on Tuesday, August 4, 1998 (63 FR 41486), relating to the excise taxes on excess benefit transactions.
HIPAA Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act--IRS. Notice of proposed rulemaking by cross-reference to temporary regulations.	Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register, the IRS is issuing temporary regulations relating to minimum hospital length-of-stay requirements imposed on group health plans with respect to mothers and newborns. The hospital length-of-stay requirements were added to the Internal Revenue Code by section 1531 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. The IRS is issuing the temporary regulations at the same time that the Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor and the Health Care Financing Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services are issuing substantially similar interim final regulations relating to hospital length-of-stay requirements added by the Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996 to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Public Health Service Act. The temporary regulations provide guidance to employers and group health plans relating to the new hospital length-of-stay requirements. The text of those temporary regulations also serves as the text of these proposed regulations.
The legal perspective: how hospitals can play politics.	A number of federal tax and election laws apply to political activity by charitable hospitals and trade associations, including the formation of political action committees. Trustees of charitable hospitals should approach political activity with an awareness of potential IRS hostility and with the advice of legal counsel.
Does the nonprofit form fit the hospital industry?	Nonprofit hospitals currently enjoy favored legal status. In this Article, Professor Clark critically examines the basis for such preferential treatment. He begins by identifying endemic problems in the health care industry and then explores the relationship between nonprofit hospitals and these problems. He finds that the evidence does not persuasively establish that nonprofit hospitals serve as fiduciaries rather than exploiters, and that nonprofits engage in much involuntary cross-subsidization of medical services. He concludes that the legal favoritism for the nonprofit form is based not on sound reasoning and hard data but on intuition. Professor Clari proposes that the legal rules affecting nonprofit hospitals reflect this reality by treating both nonprofits and for-profits neutrally, by controlling cross-subsidization, and by strengthening consumers' information about and control over health care decisionmaking.
Protecting the hospital's physician recruitment program.	The IRS has recently taken positions on a number of tax issues that affect the economic well-being of voluntary hospitals. In the area of physician recruitment, hospitals must develop certain procedures to maintain their tax-exempt status. This discussion on physician recruitment is the first of a three-part series on the IRS' position on tax issues. The next two articles will address tax problems facing restructured healthcare systems, and the tax ramifications of joint ventures.
Discovering alternatives for financing senior housing.	Obtaining the necessary capital to develop a senior housing facility can be one of the project's biggest problems, especially with the passage of the Tax Reform Act. However, new financing alternatives for senior housing are being developed, including mortgage financing, equity, tax-exempt bonds, and taxable bonds. It is important for project sponsors to understand the financing alternatives available as well as the effect of tax reform. This is the second in a three-part series on long-term care. The last article will cover the legal considerations of senior housing.
Senior housing developments raise legal issues for CFOs.	Because of the various types of senior housing available, many legal issues must be considered when developing a facility. But with a thorough understanding of the issues and options available, a potential sponsor will improve the likelihood of successfully developing and operating a senior housing facility. This article is the last in a three-part series on long-term care. The previous two articles addressed some of the reasons for entering the long-term care market as well as presenting the financing options available.
Policy options for prevention: the case of alcohol.	Reducing the availability of alcohol through alcohol control policies such as excise taxes and the minimum legal drinking age has been effective in reducing a wide range of alcohol-related problems, including traffic crashes, liver cirrhosis, and violence. Alcohol control policies may be classified into two overlapping categories--public and institutional policies. Some policies such as alcohol server training may be either mandated by governmental jurisdictions or voluntarily adopted by individual institutions, which include alcohol retail establishments, other businesses, worksites, schools, colleges/universities, law enforcement agencies, religious institutions, insurance agencies, and alcohol producers. Public policies may be mandated by national, state/provincial, or local governments to regulate where, when, and how alcohol is sold and consumed. This paper describes the wide array of public and institutional policies available to reduce alcohol-related problems. Summaries of research evaluating specific alcohol control policies are provided when available.
State laws on tobacco control--United States, 1998.	State laws addressing tobacco use, the leading preventable cause of death in the United States, are summarized. Laws address smoke-free indoor air, minors' access to tobacco products, advertising of tobacco products, and excise taxes on tobacco products.
Cigarette taxes and smoking during pregnancy.	This study sought to estimate how changes in state cigarette excise taxes affect the smoking behavior of pregnant women.
Estimating the benefits of pollution reduction on agricultural yields: Taiwan's air pollution emission fees program.	Taiwan's implementation of the 1997 Air Pollution Emissions Fees Program will conceivably lead to long-term reductions in pollution emissions. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the benefits to Taiwan from the expected reduction in crop losses as a direct result of such a decrease in air pollution. We employ a demand-supply framework for rice production to estimate the change in social welfare resulting from changes in the concentration of certain pollutants in the atmosphere. Our empirical results show that, in the year 1997, social welfare increments resulting from the decline in sulfur dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere ranged between US dollars 946200 and US dollars 2435800. Meanwhile, during the same period, the increase in social welfare due to the decline in the ozone concentration in the atmosphere ranged between US dollars 838100 and US dollars 1927000. The average benefit from the reduction in both sulfur dioxide and ozone concentrations is calculated to be between US dollars 2.67 and US dollars 6.86 per acre (for sulfur dioxide), and from US dollars 2.36 to US dollars 5.43 per acre (for ozone).
Regreening the metropolis: pathways to more ecological cities: keynote address.	Eighty percent of the American population now lives in metropolitan regions whose geographic extent continues to expand even as many core cities and inner-tier suburbs lose middle-class populations, jobs, and tax base. Urban sprawl and the socioeconomic polarizing of metropolitan America have been fostered by public policies including (1) federal subsidies for new infrastructure on the urban fringe; (2) tax policies that favor home ownership over rental properties; (3) local zoning codes; and (4) federal and state neglect of older urban neighborhoods. In the face of diminished access to "nature" outside of metropolitan areas, locally based efforts to protect and restore greenspaces within urban areas seek to make older communities more habitable and more "ecological." Some pathways to more ecological cities include the following: (1) the notion of rus in urbe ("the country in the city"); (2) the "usable outdoors"; (3) garden cities and eco-villages; (4) green buildings and green roofs; (5) urban biodiversity; (6) ecological services; and (7) space, nature, and place.
The effect of Taiwan's tax-induced increases in cigarette prices on brand-switching and the consumption of cigarettes.	The effect of raising cigarette taxes to reduce smoking has been the subject of several studies, which often treat the price of cigarettes as an exogenous factor given to smokers who respond to it by adjusting their smoking behavior. However, cigarette prices vary with brand and quality, and smokers can and do switch to lower-priced brands to reduce the impact of the tax on the cost of cigarettes as they try to consume the same number of cigarettes as they had before a tax hike. Using data from a two-year follow-up interview survey conducted before and after a new cigarette tax scheme was imposed in Taiwan in 2002, this study examines three behavioral changes smokers may make to respond to tax-induced cigarette price increase: brand-switching, amount consumed, and amount spent on smoking. These changes were studied in relation to smoker income, before-tax cigarette price, level of addiction, exposure to advertizing, and consumer loyalty. We found that smokers, depending upon exposure to advertizing, level of consumer loyalty and initial price of cigarettes, switched brands to maintain current smoking habits and control costs. We also found that the initial amount smoked and level of addiction, not price, at least not at the current levels in Taiwan, determined whether a smoker reduced the number of cigarettes he consumed.
Adult tobacco use levels after intensive tobacco control measures: New York City, 2002-2003.	We sought to determine the impact of comprehensive tobacco control measures in New York City.
A major state tobacco tax increase, the master settlement agreement, and cigarette consumption: the California experience.	We evaluated the combined effects on California cigarette consumption of an additional 50 cent per pack state tax imposed by Proposition 10 of January 1999 and a 45 cent per pack increase in cigarette prices stemming from the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) of November 1998.
Use of pharmacy data to evaluate smoking regulations' impact on sales of nicotine replacement therapies in New York City.	Recently, New York City and New York State increased cigarette excise taxes and New York City implemented a smoke-free workplace law. To assess the impact of these policies on smoking cessation in New York City, we examined over-the-counter sales of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) products.
Increasing excise taxes on cigarettes in California: a dynamic simulation of health and economic impacts.	California raised cigarette excise taxes in 1999, and may generate additional health and economic benefits by raising them further.
Hospitals strive to provide communities with benefits.	The time is now for community benefit standards programs. Indeed, not-for-profit hospitals are picking up the pace in this area and adopting such programs, motivated by a wide range of factors external and internal. On the one hand, increased public scrutiny of the not-for-profit institution's role, increased attention from the IRS, and encouragement at the national hospital association level are all influences here. But there is also a growing feeling among many hospitals that community benefit standards programs can enhance their public image--and that they're the right thing to do.
Top developments in health care: a watershed year.	Regulations, reimbursement battles, collaboration efforts, financial difficulties and the reform process all helped make 1991 a watershed year for health care issues--and an eventful one for executives. News media attention to health care policy, financing and delivery issues was intense: television, radio and print coverage focused on overcrowded emergency departments, uninsured pregnant women with no access to obstetrical care, employers demanding cost-efficient care and the pluses and minuses of foreign health care systems. The close of 1991 left hospital executives dealing with the effects of issues like the Medicare capital payment fold-in, physician payment reform, hospitals' geographic reclassification and the push for national health care reform. Below are brief summaries of some of the year's top issues.
Effect of increased social unacceptability of cigarette smoking on reduction in cigarette consumption.	Taxes on cigarettes have long been used to help reduce cigarette consumption. Social factors also affect cigarette consumption, but this impact has not been quantified. We computed a social unacceptability index based on individuals' responses to questions regarding locations where smoking should be allowed. A regression analysis showed that the social unacceptability index and price had similar elasticities and that their effects were independent of each other. If, through an active tobacco control campaign, the average individual's views on the social unacceptability of smoking changed to more closely resemble the views of California residents, there would be a 15% drop in cigarette consumption, equivalent to a 1.17 dollars increase in the excise tax on cigarettes.
Use of a retail sales tax on tobacco to fund drug therapy for smoking cessation]	To analyze the revenue-generating potential of a new retail sales tax on tobacco and its effects on public health if the tax revenues were allocated to finance smoking cessation programs.
Fiscal policy and tobacco control: a unique opportunity to benefit public health and the public treasury]	Various studies and analyses show that an increase in tobacco prices through taxation is one of the most efficient tools in the application of integral policies in the fight against tobacco. Increases in taxes contribute to cessation, to reductions in consumption and in the number of deaths among addicts and to decrease the number of people who start to smoke. However, many governments hesitate to apply high taxes to tobacco for fear of possible negative economic results including loss of jobs and a decrease in fiscal revenue as a consequence of smuggling. Both literature and empirical experience indicate that these negative consequences do not occur or have been overestimated, often due to arguments promoted by the tobacco industry itself. Increases in tobacco taxes result in greater fiscal income, even in the presence of smuggling, which can be confronted without eroding tobacco control policies. Numerous countries, including Mexico, still have a wide margin for increasing tobacco taxes, and thereby to take advantage of an exceptional opportunity that benefits both the population's health and the public treasury. To do so, governments must stand up to the powerful tobacco industry, which is aware of the efficiency of taxes to combat tobacco use and therefore resorts to intense ad campaigns, political lobbying and negotiation of voluntary agreements for "self-regulation" in order to avoid stricter legislative or fiscal measures.
Recent tobacco tax rate adjustment and its potential impact on tobacco control in China.	To compare the new tobacco tax structure effective from May 2009 with the tax structure before May 2009 and to analyse its potential impact.
The California stem cell initiative: persuasion, politics, and public science.	The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine (CIRM) was created by a California ballot initiative to make stem cell research a constitutional right, in response to Bush administration restrictions on stem cell research. The initiative created a taxpayer-funded, multibillion-dollar institution, intended to advance public health by developing cures and treatments for diabetes, cancer, paralysis, and other conditions. The initiative has been highly controversial among stakeholders and watchdog groups concerned with organizational transparency, accountability, and the ethics of stem cell research. We interviewed major stakeholders-both supporters and opponents-and analyzed documents and meeting notes. We found that the CIRM has overcome start-up challenges, been selectively influenced by criticism, and adhered to its core mission.
Creating a perfect storm to increase consumer demand for Wisconsin's Tobacco Quitline.	Telephone quitlines are a clinically proven and cost-effective population-wide tobacco-dependence treatment, and this option is now available in all 50 states. Yet, only 1% of the smoking population accesses these services annually. This report describes a series of policy, programmatic, and communication initiatives recently implemented in Wisconsin that resulted in a dramatic increase in consumer demand for the Wisconsin Tobacco Quitline (WTQL).
Legislation to institutionalize resources for tobacco control: the 1987 Victorian Tobacco Act.	  To describe the process surrounding the creation of the first organization in the world to be funded from an earmarked tax on tobacco products, the Victorian Health Promotion Foundation (VicHealth), and to outline briefly its subsequent history.
Addressing policy barriers to paternal involvement during pregnancy.	Efforts to reduce infant mortality in the United States have failed to incorporate paternal involvement. Research suggests that paternal involvement, which has been recognized as contributing to child development and health for many decades, is likely to affect infant mortality through the mother's well-being, primarily her access to resources and support. In spite of that, systemic barriers facing the father and the influence on his involvement in the pregnancy have received little attention. The Commission on Paternal Involvement in Pregnancy Outcomes (CPIPO) has identified the most important social barriers to paternal involvement during pregnancy and outlined a set of key policy priorities aimed at fostering paternal involvement. This article summarizes the key recommendations, including equitable paternity leave, elimination of marriage as a tax and public assistance penalty, integration of fatherhood initiatives in MCH programs, support of low-income fathers through employment training, father inclusion in family planning services, and expansion of birth data collection to include father information.
Short of the mark. A Modern Healthcare analysis of Form 990s shows some very profitable hospitals offering little subsidized care.	A Modern Healthcare analysis finds a widely uneven distribution in the levels of charity care given to the poor by various hospitals. Many of the charitable healthcare providers even acknowledge billing patients who, in retrospect, probably should have qualified for free care. "Hospitals, if they're not-for-profits, should act like a charity," says Sen. Chuck Grassley, left. "I expect nonprofit hospitals to fulfill their not-for-profit status by providing whatever charity care is needed".
Is the "alcopops" tax working? Probably yes but there is a bigger picture.	The Australian Government's decision to raise taxes on ready-to-drink spirit-based beverages (RTDs; "alcopops") in 2008 caused great controversy. Interest groups have selectively cited evidence to support their points of view. The alcohol industry cited Victorian data from the Australian Secondary Students' Alcohol and Drug Survey (ASSADS) as evidence that the tax had failed, but closer examination of the data suggests that fewer students are drinking, and fewer are drinking at risky or high-risk levels. Excise data from the first full year after the tax came into effect showed a more than 30% reduction in RTD sales and a 1.5% reduction in total pure alcohol sold in Australia. Although understanding the impact of the alcopops tax will require critical analysis of a range of evidence, sales and ASSADS data suggest that the tax has resulted in reduced consumption of RTDs and total alcohol. The most effective and cost-effective measures for reducing consumption and harm are a comprehensive graduated volumetric alcohol taxation system, a minimum price per standard drink, and special measures for particular products that may cause disproportionate harm. While welcoming the alcopops tax, public health advocates have consistently argued for a comprehensive package of reform that covers pricing, availability and promotion of alcohol, as well as education and treatment services.
Reducing prenatal smoking: the role of state policies.	Maternal smoking causes adverse health outcomes for both mothers and infants and leads to excess healthcare costs at delivery and beyond. Even with substantial declines over the past decade, around 23% of women enter pregnancy as a smoker and though almost half quit during pregnancy, half or more quitters resume smoking soon after delivery.
Fees on health insurance policies and self-insured plans for the patient-centered outcomes research trust fund. Final regulations.	This document contains final regulations that implement and provide guidance on the fees imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on issuers of certain health insurance policies and plan sponsors of certain self-insured health plans to fund the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund. These final regulations affect the issuers and plan sponsors that are directed to pay those fees.
Major regulatory changes and the impact on diagnostic imaging in the United States 2005 to 2012∗: ∗effective May 15, 2013.	Federal regulation of diagnostic imaging in the United States has increased dramatically in recent years. The primary statutes aimed at curbing escalating costs and reorienting the national priorities of health care have a direct effect on the specialty of diagnostic imaging. This paper surveys the major regulations and current issues that pose challenges to the practice of diagnostic imaging in the United States, from the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 through the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. 
Hospitals are caught in regulatory crossruff.	HHS and IRS are good examples of federal agencies that, each responsible to its own unique regulatory, manage to frequently undermine congressional health policy intent.
Medical office buildings present many issues for consideration.	When a hospital is considering the construction of a medical office building, a number of options exist, each of which presents both advantages and disadvantages.
Hospital-based physicians and work tax status.	Criteria for determining whether hospital-based physicians are independent contractors or hospital employees for employment tax purposes are discussed.
State laws on tobacco control--United States, 1995.	State laws on smoke-free indoor air, youth access to tobacco products, advertising of tobacco products, and excise taxes on tobacco products are summarized.
Public opinion on tobacco use, its taxes and public policy.	Public opinion is an important vehicle in shaping legislative efforts and public policy related to tobacco use and related taxes. This study examined public opinion about policy related to tobacco use and raising tobacco taxes in a Midwestern state. The American Lung Association of Indiana provided a grant to sponsor this project. A structured questionnaire was developed, field tested and revised for the final data collection procedure. A sample of 800 adult subjects was randomly selected and telephone interviewed by the Indiana University Center for Survey Research. The collected data were subjected to descriptive and inferential statistics. The data revealed a good representative sample of adult males and females for various age groups and socioeconomic backgrounds. Among other findings, 29% were currently smokers, 23% were former smokers, and 47.5% never smoked. More than 90% support a requirement that public places have nonsmoking areas. About 85% favor an increase in cigarette taxes to pay for health education and tobacco-related research. The relationship of the subjects' gender, education and income to their opinion about the various aspects of tobacco, taxes and related policies were examined.
Banking on bonuses.	Performance incentives cover a wider--and deeper--swath of health care than ever, according to the latest Hay Group surveys. Yet it's clear that most organizations are homegrowing compensation strategies that blend base and incentive pay into a cohesive package.
Creating statewide tobacco control programs after passage of a tobacco tax: executive summary.	The tobacco control leaders of four states that have successfully passed tobacco tax ballot initiatives (California, Massachusetts, Arizona, and Oregon) were brought together to this conference to discuss what happens after the passage of such an initiative, how to defend tobacco control funds against diversion for other purposes by a state's legislature, and how to use the revenues maximally to reduce the health and economic toll taken by tobacco use. At the conference, the attendees from each state presented reports that will undoubtedly be useful to other states seeking to pass their own tobacco tax legislation or initiatives.
History of successful ballot initiatives--California.	In this report, the author examines the factors that led to a tobacco tax ballot initiative in California, the coalition-building process, the strong arguments for tax increases, and important decisions regarding the distribution of revenues.
History of successful ballot initiatives--Massachusetts.	In this report, the author traces the Massachusetts campaign for the 1992 referendum Question 1, which raised the cigarette excise tax by 25 cents. Dr. Cady highlights the major features of the 2-year campaign with special emphasis on the need for committed leadership, coalition-building, and expert political guidance.
History of successful ballot initiatives--Arizona.	In this article, the author, a key architect of the successful tobacco control program in Arizona, examines the stages of preparing an initiative campaign and the major issues in recruiting hospital associations to antitobacco campaigns. The article provides important lessons for coalitions and hospital associations, potential key players in other statewide campaigns.
History of successful ballot initiatives--Oregon.	In this report, the author traces the background of Ballot Measure 44, which raised taxes on cigarette and other tobacco products in Oregon. He highlights the effect of a positive coalescing of different forces (nonprofit health groups and medical groups) despite initial differences in program strategy.
Getting key players to work together and defending against diversion--California.	In 1988, Californians passed Proposition 99, which raised the tobacco tax from 10 cents to 35 cents and allocated 20% of the resulting revenues, approximately $100 million, for tobacco education and 5% for tobacco-related research. Seventy percent was allocated for health care costs and 5% for the environment. In this report, the authors provide an overview of the process of implementing the tobacco education program, which is followed by a more detailed review and analysis of the major impediments to the program, i.e., the diversion of a significant portion of the funding voters had earmarked for tobacco education and research and the battles for legislative reauthorization of Proposition 99 in the 1990s.
Getting key players to work together and defending against diversion--Massachusetts.	In this report, the authors trace the development of an effective statewide tobacco control program following victory at the Massachusetts polls in 1992. They examine the pitfalls standing in the way of coalition building and present important lessons for states in similar positions.
Getting key players to work together and defending against diversion--Arizona.	In this report, the author traces the development of the offensive and defensive strategies employed by various antitobacco coalitions and organizations in Arizona. Further, he describes key principles and identifies directions for states soon to embark on tobacco control initiatives.
Getting key players to work together and defending against diversion--Oregon.	In this report, the author, Executive Vice President of the American Cancer Society in Oregon, reviews the key factors in the crafting of the coalition leading to passage of a tobacco tax in Oregon. Mr. North also emphasizes the importance of institutionalizing the coalition after passage to provide the required leadership for future efforts.
Designing an effective statewide tobacco control program--Massachusetts.	Smoking-related illnesses kill > 10,000 Massachusetts residents each year and cost hundreds of millions of dollars of public and private expenditures for health care. To combat this public health problem, in 1992 Massachusetts voters approved a referendum question calling for an increased excise tax on tobacco products, with the revenue supporting a Health Protection Fund. Approximately 40% of the fund is used to finance the Massachusetts Tobacco Control Program (MTCP), administered by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. During the first 3 fiscal years (FY), the MTCP budget has averaged just over $40 million annually, declining during that period from approximately $43 million in FY 1995 to < $37 million in FY 1997.
Designing an effective statewide tobacco control program--Arizona.	In this article, the author examines the creation and development of Arizona's statewide tobacco control program. In particular, he examines the three basic goals of prevention, cessation, and policy and emphasizes the need to focus equally on all to build an effective program. The need for sound theory and research to guide statewide comprehensive programs is highlighted.
Designing an effective statewide tobacco control program--Oregon.	In this report, the author documents the first stages in the development and implementation of Oregon's tobacco control program. She briefly reviews the history of tobacco control coalitions in Oregon prior to the passage of Ballot Measure 44 and attributes much of the success to earlier coalition-building efforts.
Evaluation: methods and strategy for evaluation--California.	In this report, the author documents the many successes in California's history of tobacco control efforts, and the primary role given to evaluation. She provides a comprehensive overview of California's multidimensional evaluation structure and concludes with key lessons gleaned from a decade of evaluation research.
