NARF, an nemo-like kinase (NLK)-associated ring finger protein regulates the ubiquitylation and degradation of T cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF).	beta-Catenin is a key player in the Wnt signaling pathway, and interacts with cofactor T cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF) to generate a transcription activator complex that activates Wnt-induced genes. We previously reported that Nemo-like kinase (NLK) negatively regulates Wnt signaling via phosphorylation of TCF/LEF. To further evaluate the physiological roles of NLK, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening to identify NLK-interacting proteins. From this screen, we isolated a novel RING finger protein that we term NARF (NLK associated RING finger protein). Here, we show that NARF induces the ubiquitylation of TCF/LEF in vitro and in vivo, and functions as an E3 ubiquitin-ligase that specifically cooperates with the E2 conjugating enzyme E2-25K. We found that NLK augmented NARF binding and ubiquitylation of TCF/LEF, and this required NLK kinase activity. The ubiquitylated TCF/LEF was subsequently degraded by the proteasome. Furthermore, NARF inhibited formation of the secondary axis induced by the ectopic expression of beta-catenin in Xenopus embryos. Collectively, our findings raise the possibility that NARF functions as a novel ubiquitin-ligase to suppress the Wnt-beta-catenin signaling.
Distinct promoters mediate the regulation of Ebf1 gene expression by interleukin-7 and Pax5.	Early differentiation of B lymphocytes requires the function of multiple transcription factors that regulate the specification and commitment of the lineage. Loss- and gain-of-function experiments have provided important insight into the transcriptional control of B lymphopoiesis, whereby E2A was suggested to act upstream of EBF1 and Pax5 downstream of EBF1. However, this simple hierarchy cannot account for all observations, and our understanding of a presumed regulatory network, in which transcription factors and signaling pathways operate, is limited. Here, we show that the expression of the Ebf1 gene involves two promoters that are differentially regulated and generate distinct protein isoforms. We find that interleukin-7 signaling, E2A, and EBF1 activate the distal Ebf1 promoter, whereas Pax5, together with Ets1 and Pu.1, regulates the stronger proximal promoter. In the absence of Pax5, the function of the proximal Ebf1 promoter and accumulation of EBF1 protein are impaired and the replication timing and subcellular localization of the Ebf1 locus are altered. Taken together, these data suggest that the regulation of Ebf1 via distinct promoters allows for the generation of several feedback loops and the coordination of multiple determinants of B lymphopoiesis in a regulatory network.
An antisense transcript induced by Wnt/beta-catenin signaling decreases E2F4.	Wnt signaling induces the nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin and transcription of specific target genes via the DNA-binding proteins TCF/Lef. Although all known beta-catenin target genes encode proteins, genome-wide RNA profiling studies indicate that many transcripts do not have this capability. Transcription factor-binding sites associated with these noncoding transcripts can be identified using unbiased techniques such as serial analysis of chromatin occupancy (SACO). We used this method to identify a beta-catenin-regulated antisense RNA expressed in HCT116 colorectal carcinoma cells, a cellular model of activated beta-catenin signaling. Genomic signature tags designating putative beta-catenin-binding sites mapped to the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the E2F4 gene. We showed that both beta-catenin and TCF4 bind to the E2F4 3'-UTR site in vivo, inducing expression of an E2F4 antisense transcript. LiCl, which mimics Wnt signaling, also induced expression of the E2F4 antisense transcript and decreased E2F4 protein levels. This effect was blocked by a cDNA expressing the E2F4 3'-UTR sense strand. The antisense-mediated decrease in E2F4 protein was reflected by reduced E2F4 association with specific target genes, including CCNA2, CDC2, PCNA, and Rad54. We propose that Wnt/beta-catenin signaling may contribute to colorectal carcinogenesis by reducing the level of the E2F4 cell cycle repressor via an antisense mechanism.
Liver-specific loss of beta-catenin results in delayed hepatocyte proliferation after partial hepatectomy.	Recent studies have suggested that beta-catenin is involved in the regulation of hepatocyte proliferation in multiple contexts, including organ development and tumorigenesis. We explored the role of beta-catenin during liver regeneration using T cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF)-reporter mice (TOPGal mice) and liver-specific beta-catenin knockout mice. Liver-specific beta-catenin knockout mice showed a delayed onset of DNA synthesis after hepatectomy, whereas recovery of liver mass was not affected. Among putative beta-catenin target genes examined, the induction of Ccnd1 expression was reduced, whereas the expression of Myc and Egfr was unaffected. Furthermore, cyclin D1 protein levels were not induced, and the expression of cyclins A, E, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen was delayed. Intriguingly, the analysis of TOPGal mice showed that hepatocytes with active TCF/LEF transcription are confined to the pericentral zone and are not increased in number during regeneration, indicating an uncoupling between beta-catenin/TCF signaling activity and hepatocyte proliferation.
Wnt3a regulates Lef-1 expression during airway submucosal gland morphogenesis.	Regulation of the lymphoid enhancer factor 1 (Lef-1) transcription factor is important for the inductive formation of many epithelial-derived appendages including airway submucosal glands (SMGs). Although Wnts have been linked to developmental processes involving transcriptional activation of the Lef-1 protein, there is little in vivo information directly linking Wnts with the transcriptional regulation of the Lef-1 promoter. In the present study, we hypothesized that Wnt3a directly regulates Lef-1 gene expression required for SMG morphogenesis in mice. In support of this hypothesis, TOPGAL reporter mice demonstrated activation of beta-catenin/Tcf complexes during early phases of SMG development and immunolocalization studies confirmed abundant expression of Tcf4, but not Tcf1 or Tcf3, at this stage. ChIP analysis in primary airway epithelial cells revealed that Tcf4 associates with a known Wnt Responsive Region in the Lef-1 promoter and transfection of Cos-1 cells with dominant active beta-catenin and Tcf4 synergistically activated the Lef-1 promoter. Using Wnt3a deficient and Lef-1 promoter-GFP reporter mice, we also demonstrate that Wnt3a induces Lef-1 gene expression in newly forming SMG buds of mice and is required for the maintenance of gland bud growth. These findings provide the first in vivo evidence that Wnt3a can transcriptionally regulate the Lef-1 gene.
CBP/p300 are bimodal regulators of Wnt signaling.	Many Wnts influence cell behavior by a conserved signaling cascade that promotes the stabilization and nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin (beta-cat), which then associates with TCF family members to activate target genes. The histone acetyltransferase CREB binding protein (CBP) can bind to TCF and inhibit Wnt signaling in Drosophila. In contrast, studies in vertebrates indicate a positive role for CBP and the closely related protein p300 as beta-cat binding transcriptional co-activators. We address this discrepancy by demonstrating that in addition to its negative role, CBP has an essential positive role in Wnt signaling in flies. CBP binds directly to the C-terminus of Armadillo (Arm, the fly beta-cat) and is recruited to a Wnt-regulated enhancer (WRE) in a Wnt- and Arm-dependent manner. In a human colorectal cancer cell line, we show that CBP and p300 can inhibit Wnt signaling and demonstrate that human p300 can bind directly to TCF4 in vitro. Our results argue that CBP/p300 has an evolutionarily conserved role as a buffer regulating TCF-beta-cat/Arm binding. Subsequent to this interaction, it also has an essential role in mediating the transactivation activity of beta-cat/Arm.
Targeting the beta-catenin/TCF transcriptional complex in the treatment of multiple myeloma.	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an invariably fatal form of cancer characterized by clonal proliferation of malignant plasma cells in the bone marrow. The canonical Wnt signaling pathway is activated in MM cells through constitutively active beta-catenin, a messenger molecule relevant to growth, survival, and migration of MM cells. The identification of a number of small molecular compounds, such as PKF115-584, which disrupt the interaction of the transcriptionally active beta-catenin/TCF protein complex, provides valuable new therapeutic tools to target an alternative pathway in MM independent of the proteasome. Here we evaluated the transcriptional, proteomic, signaling changes, and biological sequelae associated with the inhibition of Wnt signaling in MM by PKF115-584. The compound blocks expression of Wnt target genes and induces cytotoxicity in both patient MM cells and MM cell lines without a significant effect in normal plasma cells. In xenograft models of human MM, PKF115-584 inhibits tumor growth and prolongs survival. Taken together, these data demonstrate the efficacy of disrupting the beta-catenin/TCF transcriptional complex to exploit tumor dependence on Wnt signaling as a therapeutic approach in the treatment of MM.
beta-Catenin/TCF pathway upregulates STAT3 expression in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	Precise roles of beta-catenin/TCF pathway involved in esophageal tumorigenesis remain elusive. Here we found STAT3 overexpression in esophageal cancer cells and tissues, and its overexpression in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) tissues correlated with beta-catenin cytoplasmic/nuclear accumulation. A functional TCF binding element was detected in STAT3 promoter which specifically bound to TCF4. Transfected beta-catenin induced STAT3 transcriptional activity dose-dependently, and also enhanced STAT3 mRNA and protein levels. These inductions were specifically abolished by dominant-negative TCF4. These results suggest that STAT3 is a target of beta-catenin/TCF pathway and might participate in esophageal tumorigenesis.
IQGAP1 activates Tcf signal independent of Rac1 and Cdc42 in injury and repair of bronchial epithelial cells.	The process of injury and repair involves spreading, migration and cell proliferation. The functions of Rho GTPases and their effector IQGAP1 are poor known in this process of airway epithelium. In the present study, we employed a widely used in vitro model by scratching a monolayer of BECs. We found that scratching induced decreasing of the GTP-bound Rac1 and Cdc42, but increasing the amounts of IQGAP1 at different time points. Next, we confirmed that IQGAP1 interacted with the constitutively active Rac1 (Rac1(V12)) and Cdc42 (Cdc42(V12)) rather than the dominant negative Rac1 (Rac1(N17)) and Cdc42 (Cdc42(N17)). Over-expressions of wild type (WT) IQGAP1 and its mutant (T1050AX2), which was defective to interact with Rho GTPases, induced translocation of beta-catenin from the cytoplasm into the nucleus. These results activated Tcf/Lef and increased the expression levels of its target genes of c-myc and cyclin D1. Likewise, the amounts of c-myc and cyclin D1 increased after scratching. Our results suggested that IQGAP1 mediated cell proliferation through activating Tcf in a manner independent of Rac1 and Cdc42 in wound repair of BECs.
The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 10 is a negative regulator of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.	Wnt signaling pathways play fundamental roles in the differentiation, proliferation and functions of many cells as well as developmental, growth, and homeostatic processes in animals. Low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related protein (LRP) 5 and LRP6 serve as coreceptors of Wnt proteins together with Frizzled receptors, triggering activation of canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Here, we found that LRP10, a new member of the LDLR gene family, inhibits the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. The beta-catenin/T cell factor (TCF) transcriptional activity in HEK293 cells was activated by transfection with Wnt3a or LRP6, which was then inhibited by co-transfection with LRP10. Deletion of the extracellular domain of LRP10 negated its inhibitory effect. The inhibitory effect of LRP10 was consistently conserved in HEK293 cells even when GSK3beta phosphorylation was inhibited by incubation with lithium chloride and co-transfection with constitutively active S33Y-mutated beta-catenin. Nuclear beta-catenin accumulation was unaffected by LRP10. The present studies suggest that LRP10 may interfere with the formation of the beta-catenin/TCF complex and/or its binding to target DNA in the nucleus, and that the extracellular domain of LRP10 is critical for inhibition of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.
Attracting AID to targets of somatic hypermutation.	The process of somatic hypermutation (SHM) of immunoglobulin (Ig) genes requires activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID). Although mistargeting of AID is detrimental to genome integrity, the mechanism and the cis-elements responsible for targeting of AID are largely unknown. We show that three CAGGTG cis-elements in the context of Ig enhancers are sufficient to target SHM to a nearby transcribed gene. The CAGGTG motif binds E47 in nuclear extracts of the mutating cells. Replacing CAGGTG with AAGGTG in the construct without any other E47 binding site eliminates SHM. The CA versus AA effect requires AID. CAGGTG does not enhance transcription, chromatin acetylation, or overall target gene activity. The other cis-elements of Ig enhancers alone cannot attract the SHM machinery. Collectively with other recent findings, we postulate that AID targets all genes expressed in mutating B cells that are associated with CAGGTG motifs in the appropriate context. Ig genes are the most highly mutated genes, presumably because of multiple CAGGTG motifs within the Ig genes, high transcription activity, and the presence of other cooperating elements in Ig enhancers.
Helicobacter pylori-induced activation of beta-catenin involves low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 and Dishevelled.	The human microbial pathogen Helicobacter pylori resides in the stomach of about fifty percent of the world's population and represents a risk factor for chronic gastritis, peptic ulcers and, in rare cases, gastric cancer. Alterations of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway have been described in almost every human cancer disease, due to the regulation of target genes being involved in cell cycle control, differentiation, cell migration or stem cell control. Our study aimed to elucidate the role of proximal Wnt signaling components low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) and Dishevelled (Dvl) in the activation of beta-catenin early after infection of gastric epithelial cells with H. pylori.
Activation of T-cell-factor-dependent transcription by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus replication transactivation activator.	To elucidate the cellular function of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) replication transactivation activator (RTA) at the transcriptional level.
The gamma catenin/CBP complex maintains survivin transcription in β-catenin deficient/depleted cancer cells.	Previously, we demonstrated that survivin expression is CBP/β-catenin/TCF-dependent. Now, using NCI-H28 cells, which harbor a homozygous deletion of β-catenin, we demonstrate that survivin transcription can similarly be mediated by nuclear γ-catenin. ICG-001, a specific inhibitor of binding to the N-terminus of CBP, effectively attenuates survivin expression. We demonstrate that γ-catenin by binding to TCF family members and specifically recruiting the coactivator CBP drives survivin transcription particularly in β-catenin-deficient cells. We also examined the relative expression of γ-catenin and β-catenin in 90 cases of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in a published gene expression microarray data base. A statistically significant negative correlation between γ-catenin and β-catenin was found in AP/BC cases (-0.389, P = 0.006). Furthermore, in subsequent independent validation studies by qPCR in 28 CP and BC patients increased γ-catenin expression predominated in BC cases and was associated with concomitantly increased survivin expression. Gene expression was 3- and 6-fold greater in BC patients as compared to CP patients, for γ-catenin and survivin, respectively. Consistent with this observation, nuclear γ-catenin accumulation was evident in this population consistent with a potential transcriptional role. Combined treatment with imatinib mesylate (IM) and ICG-001 significantly inhibited colony formation in sorted CD34(+) CML progenitors (survivin(+)/γ-catenin(high)/β-catenin(low)) isolated from one BC and one AP patient resistant to IM. Therefore, we believe that the ability of ICG-001 to block both the CBP/γ-catenin interaction and the CBP/β-catenin interaction may have clinical significance in cancers in which γ-catenin plays a significant transcriptional role.
Cell cycle-related kinase is a direct androgen receptor-regulated gene that drives β-catenin/T cell factor-dependent hepatocarcinogenesis.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide. It is more prevalent in men than women. Related to this, recent genetic studies have revealed a causal role for androgen receptor (AR) in hepatocarcinogenesis, but the underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here, we used genome-wide location and functional analyses to identify a critical mediator of AR signaling - cell cycle-related kinase (CCRK) - that drives hepatocarcinogenesis via a signaling pathway dependent on β-catenin and T cell factor (TCF). Ligand-bound AR activated CCRK transcription and protein expression via direct binding to the androgen-responsive element of the CCRK promoter in human HCC cell lines. In vitro analyses showed that CCRK was critical in human cell lines for AR-induced cell cycle progression, hepatocellular proliferation, and malignant transformation. Ectopic expression of CCRK in immortalized human liver cells activated β-catenin/TCF signaling to stimulate cell cycle progression and to induce tumor formation, as shown in both xenograft and orthotopic models. Conversely, knockdown of CCRK decreased HCC cell growth, and this could be rescued by constitutively active β-catenin or TCF. In primary human HCC tissue samples, AR, CCRK, and β-catenin were concordantly overexpressed in the tumor cells. Furthermore, CCRK overexpression correlated with the tumor staging and poor overall survival of patients. Our results reveal a direct AR transcriptional target, CCRK, that promotes hepatocarcinogenesis through the upregulation of β-catenin/TCF signaling.
Regulation of Wnt signaling by the tumor suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli does not require the ability to enter the nucleus or a particular cytoplasmic localization.	Wnt signaling plays key roles in development and disease. The tumor suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) is an essential negative regulator of Wnt signaling. Its best-characterized role is as part of the destruction complex, targeting the Wnt effector β-catenin (βcat) for phosphorylation and ultimate destruction, but several studies suggested APC also may act in the nucleus at promoters of Wnt-responsive genes or to shuttle βcat out for destruction. Even in its role in the destruction complex, APC's mechanism of action remains mysterious. We have suggested APC positions the destruction complex at the appropriate subcellular location, facilitating βcat destruction. In this study, we directly tested APC's proposed roles in the nucleus or in precisely localizing the destruction complex by generating a series of APC2 variants to which we added tags relocalizing otherwise wild-type APC to different cytoplasmic locations. We tested these for function in human colon cancer cells and Drosophila embryos. Strikingly, all rescue Wnt regulation and down-regulate Wnt target genes in colon cancer cells, and most restore Wnt regulation in Drosophila embryos null for both fly APCs. These data suggest that APC2 does not have to shuttle into the nucleus or localize to a particular subcellular location to regulate Wnt signaling.
β-Catenin/Tcf signaling in murine oocytes identifies nonovulatory follicles.	WNTS are secreted glycoprotein molecules that signal through one of three signaling pathways. The best-characterized pathway involves stabilization of the multifunctional protein β-catenin, which in concert with members of the T-cell factor (Tcf) family activates specific gene transcription. We have examined putative Wnt/β-catenin in the murine ovary using transgenic mice harboring a reporter construct that activates β-galactosidase (lacZ) expression in response to β-catenin/Tcf binding (TopGal mice). Primordial and primary follicles did not stain for lacZ, and the proportion of β-catenin/Tcf signaling oocytes was lower than that of nonsignaling oocytes throughout estrous cycle. β-Catenin/Tcf signaling oocytes were observed in follicles from the secondary stage of development and their proportion increased with follicular maturation (secondary follicles, 20%; early antral and antral follicles, 70%). In contrast, the majority (>90%) of ovulated oocytes did not stain for lacZ. As the oocyte possesses components for WNT signal transduction, our data suggest that β-catenin/Tcf signaling is involved in the development of follicular ovulatory capability and identifies nonovulatory follicles.
