The erosive effect of herbal tea on dental enamel.	The aim of this study was to determine whether conventional black tea and a herbal tea were capable of eroding dental enamel. A further aim was to investigate whether herbal tea of the type tested eroded dental hard tissues to a greater or lesser extent than conventional black tea.
Brick-tea type adult bone fluorosis]	To investigate health impact of brick-tea type fluorosis in adults, the total daily fluorine intake, environment fluorine level were determined, the average urinary fluorine content assay and bone X-ray examination were conducted, the clinical manifestations were observed in the brick-tea type bone fluorosis epidemiological study conducted in Naqu County, Tibet at September, 2001. One hundred and eleven adults aged at 30-78 year-old were enrolled. It was found that the fluorine level of drinking water in Naqu County was 0.10 +/- 0.03 mg/L, but the brick-tea water processed foods-zamba and buttered tea had fluorine content of 4.52 +/- 0.74 mg/kg and 3.21 +/- 0.65 mg/kg respectively. The adult daily fluorine intake reached 11.99 mg, among which 99% is originated from the brick-tea containing foods. Positive detection rate of fluorosis osteopathy was 89% and the X-ray film confirmed that the diagnosis rate was 83%. Degenerative arthropathy and ossification of the interosteal membrane, calcification of the tendon were the characteristics that indicated by both the positive signs and reogenological examination. The prevalence of osteosclerosis type (bone matrix increased) was 74%. It is suggested that there were even more severe health impact compared with those in the water type and coal combustion type fluorosis.
Maté consumption and the risk of squamous cell esophageal cancer in uruguay.	A retrospective hospital-based case-control study was carried out at the Oncology Institute of Montevideo, Uruguay, to investigate the role of maté consumption in esophageal cancer risk. The study included 344 cases with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and 469 controls recruited between January 1988 and August 2000. Maté consumption was significantly associated with an increased risk of developing esophageal cancer and showed a clear dose response, with a relative risk of 2.84 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.41-5.73] for those drinking more than 1 liter/day of maté as compared with nondrinkers. Subjects who self-reported drinking maté at a very hot temperature had an almost 2-fold increase in risk [odds ratio (OR), 1.87; 95% CI, 1.17-3.00] compared with those drinking warm to hot maté, after adjusting for cumulative consumption of maté. Maté amount and temperature were observed to have independent effects and, although no departure from multiplicativity was observed between the two covariates, those drinking more than 1 liter/day of maté at a very hot temperature had a 3-fold increase in risk (OR, 2.95; 95% CI, 1.30-6.74) compared with those drinking less than 0.5 liter/day of maté at a warm to hot temperature. Subjects with high cumulative exposure to maté in the presence of low alcohol and tobacco exposures presented a lower-risk estimate (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 0.88-2.62), whereas those with high cumulative exposures to maté, alcohol, and tobacco presented a 7-fold increase in esophageal cancer risk (OR, 7.10; 95% CI, 3.75-13.46). The population-attributable fraction as a result of maté consumption was calculated to be 53%, of which the sole effect of amount and temperature was 14.8 and 12.6% respectively, and 14.9% was attributable to high maté consumption at high temperature.
The effect of hydrogen peroxide concentration on the outcome of tooth whitening: an in vitro study.	This in vitro study examined the effect that various concentration of hydrogen peroxide (5-35%) had on tooth whitening.
Influence of teas with fruit aroma and ice teas on pH and buffer capacity of saliva]	A number of teas with fruit aroma and ice teas has been tested on erosivity. The teas with a fruit taste have at their drinking temperature (45 degrees C) a pH between 6.2 to 7.4. Even teas with a citron or citrus flavour are neutral. The most acidic tea tested has a mango-peach-taste, but contains no buffer system. After mixing 1 ml of total saliva up to 10 ml tea or by rinsing the oral cavity with tea the pH of oral fluid was hardly lowered (minimum 6.3). In contrast, ice teas are rather acidic (pH < 4) and have a strong buffer capacity. Rinsing the oral cavity with 5 ml ice tea resulted in a decrease of the pH of the oral fluid to 4.1-4.9. However, within 2 minutes the pH in the oral fluid was already increased to 5.9-7.1 and after 5 minutes to 6.3-7.1. In other words, the teas with fruit aroma, based on organic taste components do not have an erosive potential. On the other hand, ice teas decrease the pH of the oral fluid drastically to a level that they become erosive. Therefore, from a dental point of view, teas with only a taste of fruit can be advised to replace drinking of soft drinks, but ice teas not.
Development of methods to enhance extrinsic tooth discoloration for comparison of toothpastes. 1. Studies in vitro.	The interaction of chlorhexidine with dietary chromogens to cause extrinsic dental staining has been exploited in vitro and in vivo to study tooth discoloration and its control. These studies in vitro investigated factors that might enhance stain formation, and evaluated formulations to inhibit the stain with the primary aim of devising a protocol for use in vivo.
Development of methods to enhance extrinsic tooth discoloration for comparison of toothpastes. 2. Two-product clinical study.	Extrinsic staining of teeth is considered to be unsightly and a number of 'whitening' toothpastes have been formulated to inhibit or remove such tooth discoloration. The aim of this study was to compare the stain prevention of two toothpastes.
Salivary proteins interact with dietary constituents to modulate tooth staining.	Dietary components rich in polyphenols-for example, tea and red wine-are thought to cause tooth staining. In the present study, hydroxyapatite was used as a model of enamel for study of the influence of salivary proteins on the binding of different polyphenols to hydroxyapatite in vitro. Neither salivary protein pellicles nor salivary proteins in solution significantly altered the binding of the small polyphenol epigallocatechin to hydroxyapatite. However, hydroxyapatite binding of anthocyanin, a small grape-skin-derived polyphenol, or the larger polyphenols of black tea was increased by the presence of salivary proteins, either as a pellicle or in solution. Proline-rich proteins were enriched from parotid saliva and found to increase binding of anthocyanin and black tea polyphenols to hydroxyapatite, while enriched histatins did not increase binding. It is concluded that some salivary proteins, including proline-rich protein, can mediate increased staining of enamel by red-wine- and black-tea-derived polyphenols.
The bleaching depth of a 35% hydrogen peroxide based in-office product: a study in vitro.	The aim of the present study was to quantify the penetration of 35% hydrogen peroxide into enamel and dentine and to relate this to the resultant shade change of the tooth.
Tea consumption and cancer risk.	The relationship between tea consumption and cancer risk has been analyzed using data from an integrated series of case-control studies conducted in northern Italy between 1983 and 1990. The dataset included 119 histologically confirmed cancers of the oral cavity and pharynx, 294 of the esophagus, 564 of the stomach, 673 of the colon, 406 of the rectum, 258 of the liver, 41 of the gallbladder, 303 of the pancreas, 149 of the larynx, 2,860 of the breast, 567 of the endometrium, 742 of the ovary, 107 of the prostate, 365 of the bladder, 147 of the kidney, 120 of the thyroid, and a total of 6,147 controls admitted to hospital for acute nonneoplastic conditions unrelated to long-term dietary modifications. Multivariate relative risks (RR) for tea consumption were derived after allowance for age, sex, area of residence, education, smoking, and coffee consumption. All the estimates for tea consumption were close to unity, the highest values being 1.4 for rectum, gallbladder, and endometrium. There was no association with cancers of the oral cavity (RR = 0.6), esophagus (RR = 1.0), stomach (RR = 1.0), bladder (RR = 0.8), kidney (RR = 1.1), prostate (RR = 0.9), or any other site considered. Although in northern Italy tea was consumed daily by only a limited proportion of the population, this integrated series of studies offers further reassuring evidence on the relationship between tea and cancer risk.
Coffee consumption and the risk of cancer of the exocrine pancreas: a case-control study in a low-risk population.	Data from a population-based, case-control study of 149 cases of cancer of the exocrine pancreas (excluding insulinomas) and 363 controls were used to test the hypothesis that coffee consumption increased the risk of cancer of the exocrine pancreas. Because of the high mortality from cancer of the pancreas, all information was obtained from proxy respondents for cases and controls. Increased risk was present for coffee drinkers [odds ratio (OR) = 2.38], cigarette smokers (OR = 2.27), and alcohol users (OR = 1.60), but the effect for alcohol disappeared after adjustment for cigarette use. Risk increased with the amount of coffee drunk with an OR of 2.38 in the those having at least 50,000 lifetime cups. This gradient was present in both men and women, and in cigarette smokers and nonsmokers. Increased risk was present for users of regular and decaffeinated coffee, but the risk was higher for users of decaffeinated coffee than users of regular coffee. Cigarette smoking, after controlling for coffee consumption, was an independent risk factor for pancreatic cancer, with odds ratios in the heaviest smokers of 2.71 (95% confidence interval = 1.41-5.21.
Comparison of quantitative light-induced fluorescence (QLF) and digital imaging applied for the detection and quantification of staining and stain removal on teeth.	This study compares the use of QLF with digital imaging in the detection and quantification of the development and removal of stain on teeth.
Black tea--helpful or harmful? A review of the evidence.	To consider whether consumption of black tea has a positive or negative impact on health.
The effect of cigarette smoking, tea, and coffee consumption on the progression of Parkinson's disease.	Previous epidemiological studies found a negative association between cigarette smoking, tea or coffee drinking with the occurrence of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is unknown how these factors affect the rate of progression of the disease. A retrospective study was conducted among 278 consecutive PD patients. Data on smoking and coffee or tea consumption were obtained through direct or proxy interviews, and the time from onset of motor symptoms until reaching Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) stage 3 was retrieved from the case records. Cox proportional hazards model and Kaplan-Meyer model were used to estimate whether the dependent variables (smoking, drinking coffee or tea) affect the rate of progression of the disease, which was measured by the time it took patients to reach H&Y stage 3. We found that disease progression was not affected by cigarette smoking, tea or coffee consumption. The present study suggests that these variables do not have a disease modifying effect in already diagnosed PD patients.
Esophageal thermal injury by hot adlay tea.	Reversible thermal injury to the esophagus as the result of drinking hot liquids has been reported to generate alternating white and red linear mucosal bands, somewhat reminiscent of a candy cane. This phenomenon is associated with chest pain, dysphagia, odynophagia, and epigastric pain. Here, we report a case of thermal injury to the esophageal and oral cavity due to the drinking of hot tea, including odynophagia and dysphagia. A 69-year-old man was referred due to a difficulty in swallowing which had begun a week prior to referral. The patient, at the time of admission, was unable to swallow even liquids. He had recently suffered from hiccups, and had consumed five cups of hot adlay tea one week prior to admission, as a folk remedy for the hiccups. Upon physical examination, the patient's oral cavity evidenced mucosal erosion, hyperemia, and mucosa covered by a whitish pseudomembrane. Nonspecific findings were detected on the laboratory and radiological exams. Upper endoscopy revealed diffuse hyperemia, and erosions with thick and whitish pseudomembraneous mucosa on the entire esophagus. The stomach and duodenum appeared normal. We diagnosed the patient with thermal esophageal injury inflicted by the hot tea. He was treated with pantoprazole, 40 mg/day, for 14 days, and evidenced significant clinical and endoscopic improvement.
The influence of tea on iron and aluminum bioavailability in the rat.	The aluminum from tea or tea leaves was very poorly absorbed by young, growing rats. Tea had a decidedly adverse effect on the animals' iron status.
Prospective study of coffee and tea consumption in relation to risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus among men and women: the Whitehall II study.	At least fourteen cohort studies have documented an inverse association between coffee consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. We examined the prospective association between coffee and tea consumption and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus among British men (n 4055) and women (n 1768) from the Whitehall II cohort. During 11.7 years follow-up there were a total of 387 incident cases of diabetes confirmed by self-report of doctor's diagnosis or glucose tolerance tests. Despite an inverse association between coffee intake and 2 h post-load glucose concentration at the baseline assessment, combined caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee (hazard ratio (HR) 0.80; 95 % CI 0.54, 1.18) or only decaffeinated coffee intake (HR 0.65; 95 % CI 0.36, 1.16) was not significantly associated with diabetes risk at follow-up after adjustment for possible confounders. There was an association between tea intake and diabetes (HR 0.66; 95 % CI 0.61, 1.22; P < 0.05) after adjustment for age, gender, ethnicity and social status, which was not robust to further adjustments. There was, however, an association between combined intake of tea and coffee (two or more cups per day of both beverage) and diabetes (HR 0.68; 95 % CI 0.46, 0.99; P < 0.05) after full adjustment. In conclusion, relatively moderate intake (more than three cups per day) of coffee and tea were not prospectively associated with incidence of type 2 diabetes although there was evidence of a combined effect. The limited range of exposure and beverage consumption according to socio-economic class may explain these conflicting findings.
A novel green tea meal replacement formula for weight loss among obese individuals: a randomized controlled clinical trial.	To assess the efficacy and safety of a green tea meal replacement formula product for the treatment of obesity.
Coffee and alcohol as determinants of risk of pancreas cancer: a case-control study from Toronto.	Results are reported from a population-based study of 249 cases of pancreas cancer and 505 controls carried out in Toronto, Canada, between 1983 and 1986. Lifetime consumption of coffee and alcohol and medical histories were assessed by personal interviews. No evidence of any association was found with different types of coffee or alcohol after adjusting for smoking, calories and fibre intake. There was a significant increased risk associated with a history of diabetes mellitus within 5 years of cancer development. A protective effect of a history of some allergic conditions, hay fever, eczema and asthma, was observed, although the relative risks were not significant (p value greater than 0.10).
The effect of tea on iron and aluminium metabolism in the rat.	Weanling male Wistar rats were fed for 28 d on a semi-synthetic diet containing normal (38 micrograms/g) or low (9 micrograms/g) levels of iron. They were given water or tea infusion (20 g leaves/l water) to drink. Two further groups were given a normal- or low-Fe diet containing added tea leaves (20 g/kg diet). At the end of the study period, all rats given the low-Fe diet were severely anaemic, as assessed by haemoglobin, packed cell volume and liver Fe. Those given tea or the diet with added tea leaves showed a greater degree of Fe depletion. The blood and liver aluminium levels were not increased as a result of consuming tea or tea leaves, despite the higher Al intakes. Fe deficiency per se had no effect on Al absorption or retention from tea. It was concluded that the Al in tea was very poorly absorbed but that tea, either in the form of an infusion or as tea leaves, had an adverse effect on Fe status.
Effect of different doses of un-fractionated green and black tea extracts on thyroid physiology.	Tea is a rich source of polyphenolic flavonoids including catechins, which are thought to contribute to the health benefits of it. Flavonoids have been reported to have antithyroid and goitrogenic effect. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether high doses of green and black tea have a harmful effect on thyroid physiology. Un-fractionated green and black tea extracts were administered orally to male rats for 30 days at doses of 1.25 g%, 2.5 g% and 5.0 g%. The results showed that green tea extract at 2.5 g% and 5.0 g% doses and black tea extract only at 5.0 g% dose have the potential to alter the thyroid gland physiology and architecture, that is, enlargement of thyroid gland as well as hypertrophy and/or hyperplasia of the thyroid follicles and inhibition of the activity of thyroid peroxidase and 5(')-deiodinase I with elevated thyroidal Na+, K+-ATPase activity along with significant decrease in serum T3 and T4, and a parallel increase in serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). This study concludes that goitrogenic/antithyroidal potential of un-fractionated green tea extract is much more than black tea extract because of the differences in catechin contents in the tea extracts.
Black tea is not significantly different from water in the maintenance of normal hydration in human subjects: results from a randomised controlled trial.	There is a belief that caffeinated drinks, such as tea, may adversely affect hydration. This was investigated in a randomised controlled trial. Healthy resting males (n 21) were recruited from the general population. Following 24 h of abstention from caffeine, alcohol and vigorous physical activity, including a 10 h overnight fast, all men underwent four separate test days in a counter-balanced order with a 5 d washout in between. The test beverages, provided at regular intervals, were 4 × 240 ml black (i.e. regular) tea and 6 × 240 ml black tea, providing 168 or 252 mg of caffeine. The controls were identical amounts of boiled water. The tea was prepared in a standardised way from tea bags and included 20 ml of semi-skimmed milk. All food taken during the 12 h intervention period was controlled, and subjects remained at rest. No other beverages were offered. Blood was sampled at 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 12 h, and a 24 h urine sample was collected. Outcome variables were whole blood cell count, Na, K, bicarbonate, total protein, urea, creatinine and osmolality for blood; and total volume, colour, Na, K, creatinine and osmolality for urine. Although data for all twenty-one participants were included in the analysis (mean age 36 years and mean BMI 25·8 kg/m(2)), nineteen men completed all conditions. Statistical analysis, using a factorial ANOVA approach within PROC MIXED, revealed no significant differences between tea and water for any of the mean blood or urine measurements. It was concluded that black tea, in the amounts studied, offered similar hydrating properties to water.
Association of osteoporotic fracture with smoking, alcohol consumption, tea consumption and exercise among Chinese nonagenarians/centenarians.	To observe the association of osteoporotic fracture with habits of smoking, alcohol consumption, tea consumption and exercise among very old people.
Enamel properties after tooth bleaching with hydrogen/carbamide peroxides in association with a CPP-ACP paste.	This study evaluated the impact of bleaching teeth using blends of a CPP-ACP paste (MI Paste; MI) and carbamide/hydrogen peroxides in different proportions on surface properties of bleached enamel.
Effect of beverages on bovine dental enamel subjected to erosive challenge with hydrochloric acid.	This study evaluated by an in vitro model the effect of beverages on dental enamel previously subjected to erosive challenge with hydrochloric acid. The factor under study was the type of beverage, in five levels: Sprite® Zero Low-calorie Soda Lime (positive control), Parmalat® ultra high temperature (UHT) milk, Ades® Original soymilk, Leão® Ice Tea Zero ready-to-drink low-calorie peach-flavored black teaand Prata® natural mineral water (negative control). Seventy-five bovine enamel specimens were distributed among the five types of beverages (n=15), according to a randomized complete block design. For the formation of erosive wear lesions, the specimens were immersed in 10 mL aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 0.01 M for 2 min. Subsequently, the specimens were immersed in 20 mL of the beverages for 1 min, twice daily for 2 days at room temperature. In between, the specimens were kept in 20 mL of artificial saliva at 37ºC. The response variable was the quantitative enamel microhardness. ANOVA and Tukey's test showed highly significant differences (p<0.00001) in the enamel exposed to hydrochloric acid and beverages. The soft drink caused a significantly higher decrease in microhardness compared with the other beverages. The black tea caused a significantly higher reduction in microhardness than the mineral water, UHT milk and soymilk, but lower than the soft drink. Among the analyzed beverages, the soft drink and the black tea caused the most deleterious effects on dental enamel microhardness.
Tea consumption and the risk of five major cancers: a dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies.	We conducted a dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies to summarize evidence of the association between tea consumption and the risk of breast, colorectal, liver, prostate, and stomach cancer.
Methylxanthines and breast cancer.	We investigated the relationship between methylxanthine consumption and breast cancer using data from a case-control study which included 1,510 cases and 1,882 controls identified through a nation-wide breast cancer screening program. There was no evidence of a positive association between methylxanthine consumption and risk of breast cancer. In fact, there was some suggestion of a negative association, particularly in women diagnosed after age 50. In addition, there was no evidence of increased risk with past or recent methylxanthine consumption, or with the consumption of caffeine or specific beverages, most notably brewed or instant caffeinated coffee and tea.
Coffee consumption and serum cholesterol in the hypertension detection and follow-up program.	The relation between coffee consumption and serum cholesterol level was investigated in a group of 9,043 hypertensive adults who were in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program. In this study, men and women aged 30-69 years at baseline (1973-1974) had their serum cholesterol level measured at the two-year examination (1975-1976). Information about coffee, tea, and cola consumption was also obtained at that time from a food frequency questionnaire. The relation of coffee consumption and serum cholesterol level with potentially confounding variables including age, race, sex, diuretic status, diastolic blood pressure, cigarette smoking, relative weight, physical activity, stress, and education level was examined. When these variables were entered into a multiple regression equation, a positive association with coffee consumption and serum cholesterol level (p less than 0.05) was present. There was no significant relation between serum cholesterol level and consumption of tea, cola, or decaffeinated coffee--the other major contributors of caffeine to the diet--or total caffeine intake. This study indicates a significant positive relation between coffee consumption and serum cholesterol level.
Bladder cancer: smoking, beverages and artificial sweeteners.	A matched patient-control study of bladder cancer examined the relationship of the disease to occupation, smoking and intake of tea, coffee, cola, alcohol and artificial sweeteners.There was no association of disease with occupation for these patients. Heavy smoking gave relative risks of 6.37 and 4.36 for men and women respectively; there was evidence of a dose-response relationship. Tea and coffee intake did not increase the risk of disease nor did prolonged use of artificial sweeteners. Alcohol and cola intake increased the relative risk of bladder cancer among male smokers. There is some suggestion that smoking interacts with both alcohol and cola intake in the production of bladder cancer.
Coffee and cancer of the pancreas.	We questioned 369 patients with histologically proved cancer of the pancreas and 644 control patients about their use of tobacco, alcohol, tea, and coffee. There was a weak positive association between pancreatic cancer and cigarette smoking, but we found no association with use of cigars, pipe tobacco, alcoholic beverages, or tea. A strong association between coffee consumption and pancreatic cancer was evident in both sexes. The association was not affected by controlling for cigarette use. For the sexes combined, there was a significant dose-response relation (P approximately 0.001); after adjustment for cigarette smoking, the relative risk associated with drinking up to two cups of coffee per day was 1.8 (95% confidence limits, 1.0 to 3.0), and that with three or more cups per day was 2.7 (1.6 to 4.7). This association should be evaluated with other data; if it reflects a causal relation between coffee drinking and pancreatic cancer, coffee use might account for a substantial proportion of the cases of this disease in the United States.
Coffee intake and risk of hip fracture in women in northern Italy.	Information on a possible relation between coffee, caffeine, and other methylxanthine-containing beverages and hip fracture is relatively scanty and controversial. We present here the results of a case-control study conducted in northern Italy.
Smoking, alcohol, coffee, tea, caffeine, and theobromine: risk of prostate cancer in Utah (United States).	Data from a population-based study of newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer (n = 362) and age-matched controls (n = 685) conducted in Utah (United States) between 1983 and 1986 were used to determine if cigarette smoking, alcohol, coffee, tea, caffeine, and theobromine were associated with prostate cancer risk. These factors were examined since their use differs in the Utah population, which is comprised predominantly of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS or Mormon), from most other populations. Pack-years of cigarettes smoked, alcohol intake, and consumption of alcohol, coffee, tea, and caffeine were not associated with prostate cancer risk. Compared with men with very low levels of theobromine intake, older men consuming 11 to 20 and over 20 mg of theobromine per day were at increased risk of prostate cancer (odds ratio [OR] for all tumors = 2.06, 95 percent confidence interval [CI] = 1.33-3.20, and OR = 1.47, CI = 0.99-2.19, respectively; OR for aggressive tumors = 1.90, CI = 0.90-3.97, and OR = 1.74, CI = 0.91-3.32, respectively). We present biological mechanisms for a possible association between prostate cancer and theobromine. This finding needs further exploration in studies with a wider range of theobromine exposures and more men with aggressive tumors.
Fluorosis risk from early exposure to fluoride toothpaste.	Swallowed fluoride toothpaste in the early years of life has been postulated to be a risk factor for fluorosis, but the epidemiological evidence is weakened by the fact that most of the relevant studies were done in developed countries where an individual is exposed to multiple sources of fluoride.
Is there a correlation between dietary habits and hemorrhoidal disease?]	It is empirically accepted that certain foods play a role in the pathogenesis of hemorrhoids or their acute exacerbation. The aim of this work was to determine whether there is a relationship between hemorrhoids and certain food-related or common toxin-related factors.
Safety evaluation and fluorine concentration of Pu'er brick tea and Bianxiao brick tea.	Pu'er brick tea and Bianxiao brick tea are both compressed types of tea. Fluorine analysis was carried out on samples of Pu'er brick tea produced at different times in Yunnan Province and on samples of Bianxiao brick tea made in Hunan and Sichuan Province for supply especially to minority ethnic groups in border areas of China. The levels of water-soluble and water-insoluble fluorine were measured in the tea samples using an ion-specific electrode potentiometer. The concentration of water-soluble fluorine was much greater in Bianxiao brick tea than in Pu'er brick tea (mean levels 441 and 77 mg/kg, respectively). According to these figures, the fluorine intake associated with consuming an infusion of 30 g Pu'er brick tea/person/day is safe because it does not exceed the maximum recommended daily allowance (RDA) of up to 4.0 mg for adults. In contrast, the almost six times higher intake of fluorine from Bianxiao brick tea greatly exceeds the 4 mg RDA and is unsafe. The difference in the fluorine levels of the two types of brick tea can be attributed to differences in the materials used to make them: Pu'er brick tea is made from tender leaves whereas Bianxiao brick tea is made from old tough leaves in which fluorine has accumulated. We conclude that consumption of Pu'er brick tea is unlikely to induce fluorosis, which has been associated with consumption of Bianxiao brick tea.
