Efficacy of lodoxamide eye drops on tear fluid cytology of patients with vernal conjunctivitis.	A double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of lodoxamide tromethamine 0.1% eyedrops in preventing inflammatory cell accumulation in the tear fluid of patients with vernal conjunctivitis. A 1-week baseline period was followed by 4 weeks of treatment with either lodoxamide tromethamine 0.1% ophthalmic solution or placebo in 30 symptomatic subjects with vernal conjunctivitis. Cytological evaluation of tear fluid was performed before and after the treatment. In the lodoxamide-treated group, but not in the placebo-treated group, the number of neutrophils (P = 0.051) and eosinophils (P = 0.020) in the tears significantly decreased at the end of 4 weeks when compared with baseline (Wilcoxon-signed rank test). It was concluded that lodoxamide treatment was significantly more effective than the placebo in terms of reducing inflammatory cells in the tear fluid in vernal conjunctivitis. This objective inhibition of inflammatory cells may be associated with clinical relief.
Clinical and cytologic aspects of ocular late-phase reaction in the guinea pig.	Conjunctival tissue of 12 guinea pigs (6 experimental animals, 6 controls) was sensitized with IgG1 (PCA titer 1:2,000) antisera to dinitrophenol carrier and challenged topically with hapten. Periorbital swelling, conjunctival edema and conjunctival redness were evaluated clinically at 0.5 h and hourly for 12 h, and again at 24 and 48 h. Tears were collected at each time point for cytology. Results showed an early-phase reaction (EPR) peaking at 0.5 h and a late-phase reaction (LPR) peaking at 5-7 h. Periorbital swelling was minimal 4 h after appearance of the EPR. Conjunctival edema and redness increased in both the early and late phases, but without two distinct peaks. However, individual animals in both groups did show biphasic reactions. Tear cytology showed an abnormal increase in neutrophils and eosinophils in the later time periods and was a significant way to detect ocular anaphylaxis. In conclusion, if the presence of two significant peaks of clinical inflammation after one antigen challenge is taken as the narrowest definition of a late phase in anaphylaxis, our results show an ocular LPR occurring in our animal model.
Morphometric analysis of the structure of tear and aqueous humor in senile cataract]	The parameters of the wedge dehydrated samples of aqueous humor and tear taken from patients with senile cataract were compared by a morphometric assay. Computer-aided processing of the images of the test biological fluids was made on a Morphotest-1 hardware-software complex. The study has provided evidence for the uniformity of distribution of major structural components in the dehydrated samples of tear and aqueous humor in each specific examinee. This fact opens up possibilities for studying the signs of different intraocular pathological conditions from the morphological pattern of tear.
A pilot study on the infiltrating cells and cytokine levels in the tear of fungal keratitis patients.	To determine the cellular profile and cytokine levels in the tear fluid of fungal keratitis patients.
Trypsin inhibitory capacity in vernal keratoconjunctivitis.	To study tear trypsin inhibitory capacity (T-TIC), serum trypsin inhibitory capacity (S-TIC) and their relationship to matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-1 and -9 in patients with vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC).
Non-contact confocal microscopy of the tear film in unoperated eyes.	The NIDEK ConfoScan4 (CS4) is a digital scanning slit confocal microscope. The corneal structure and tear film can be viewed, magnified, measured, and photographed at magnifications up to 500x, in vivo, in a noninvasive manner. The objective of this study was to evaluate and illustrate various conditions related to dry eye using the CS4 confocal microscope with the 20x noncontact lens.
The conjunctival impression cytology between the diagnosed cases of dry eye and normal individuals.	The dry eye or tear film dysfunction is a common ophthalmic syndrome.
Cytological changes in tears during the secondary conjunctival response induced by nasal allergy.	Allergic conjunctivitis (AC) can be caused by an allergic reaction localised exclusively in the conjunctivae and initiated by direct exposure of conjunctivae to an allergen (primary AC form) or it can be induced secondarily by an allergic reaction occurring primarily in the nose (secondary AC form).
Diagnostic tests in the evaluation of the tear film]	Critical appraisal of the most important testing methods for diagnosing normal and disturbed stability of the tear film meniscus. Only a carefully compiled history, a thorough inspection of the eye and several tests to determine the type and severity of the disorder can provide information about the disturbed stability of the tear film meniscus.
A study of inclusion conjunctivitis in newborn and young adults. Clinical picture, culture, conjunctival scrapings and cytology of the tear fluid in 12 cases.	Chlamydia trachomatis were cultured from the conjunctiva of 8 newborn babies and 4 young adults' (age 20-30 years) affected with acute or therapy-resistant chronic conjunctivitis. The newborn had acute purulent conjunctivitis noticed 4 to 12 days after birth. Five of them had been treated with topical chloramphenicol without effect before the diagnosis was made. They responded well to topical tetracycline ointment, but 3 relapsed. Two developed chronic conjunctivitis and respiratory tract infection, one under long time topical chloramphenicol treatment. The adults had a chronic, in 3 unilateral, conjunctivitis with pronounced follicularly (3) or papillary (1) conjunctival hypertrophy. Different degrees of pseudoptosis, micropannus and corneal infiltrates (in 3) were noticed. In the tear fluid, the quantitative pipette method revealed inflammation shown by neutrophilic granulocytes and lymphocytes with an appreciable predominance of the former in the newborn, while less so in the adults. In the newborn the diagnosis was easily made by culture and by demonstrating inclusions bodies in Giemsa-stained conjunctival scrapings. In the adults the methods were less sensitive. A negative response to one culture does not preclude chlamydial infection.
Size and number of epithelial cells washed from the cornea after contact lens wear.	Using the technique of Fullard and Wilson, tear samples were collected atraumatically from the corneas of 14 rigid gas permeable (RGP) contact lens wearers, 14 soft contact lens (SCL) wearers, and 22 controls who did not wear contact lenses. Samples were analyzed for the number, size, and contiguity of the cellular contents. Both RGP and SCL groups had, on average, significantly fewer cells per sample than controls (median values were 11 and 12 cells vs. 44). The difference remained significant even after a correction of three cells was applied to account for cells adherent to the lenses. Approximately 80% of epithelial cells from both lens wear and control eyes were found in isolation, whereas 20% were contiguous with 1 or 2 other cells. This result is compatible with the majority of epithelial cells having exfoliated from the surface of the cornea after detaching from their neighbors, rather than detaching in sheets of cells. The cell length and cell area were analyzed. RGP wearers had significantly smaller cells than controls, whereas SCL wearers had slightly (but significantly) larger cells. These results may reflect changes in the exfoliation mechanism of the corneal epithelium in contact lens wear.
