Tear lysozyme activity in frozen Schirmer strips and salivary gland biopsy as parameters of lacrimal gland function.	The lysozyme concentration in human tears is an important parameter for tear gland function. The decline of lysozyme in tears reflects lacrimal gland destruction. In Sjögren's patients, lacrimal gland destruction parallels labial salivary gland destruction. The objective of this study was to determine whether human tear lysozyme that was frozen on Schirmer strips at -20 degrees C for several years maintained activity and whether there was a linear relation with inflammatory changes in labial salivary glands.
Clinical application of a homogeneous colorimetric assay for tear lysozyme.	Tear lysozyme and tear lactoferrin are enzymes synthesized by the lacrimal gland. Their concentration in human tears reflects tear gland function. Tear gland dysfunction can lead to ocular surface disease. We developed a colorimetric lysozyme assay. The objective of this study was to determine the diagnostic power and the clinical application of this assay that allows rapid and precise quantification of tear lysozyme.
Effect of hormone replacement therapy on lacrimal fluid peroxidase activity in woman.	Lacrimal fluid peroxidase (POD) is an antioxidant and antimicrobial enzyme involved in the protection of the ocular surface. Our recent findings showed the existence of significant cyclic variations in POD activity that were positively correlated with those of 17beta-estradiol plasma levels throughout the menstrual cycle of fertile women. During the menopause, women lacrimal fluid POD activity significantly (P<0.05) decreased according to the natural oestrogen reduction. Since a possible influence of oestrogen on human POD activity was suggested, aim of the present investigation is to evaluate whether hormone replacement therapy (HRT) might influence this enzyme activity.
Tear levels and activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-9 in vernal keratoconjunctivitis.	To study levels and activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and -9 and their tissue inhibitor (TIMP-1) in tears of patients with vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC), with and without severe corneal damage.
Tear plasmin activity with contact lens wear.	Plasmin, a proteolytic enzyme, has been detected in the tears of patients experiencing anterior ocular disease, and during contact lens wear. Using a radial caseinolysis procedure, we examined tear plasmin levels in 66 patients who were wearing soft and rigid lenses for daily and extended wear. Compared to non-contact lens wearers, patients wearing soft and rigid lenses for extended wear were significantly more likely to exhibit tear plasmin activity. Eight hours of open-eye thick HEMA lens wear did not induce tear plasmin activity in a group of 10 subjects. However, significant increases in tear plasmin activity were recorded after short-term (1 hour) eye closure with and without lens wear, and following overnight (8 hours) eye closure without lens wear. Overnight eye closure also resulted in significantly increased numbers of epithelial cells and leucocytes in the tear fluid. Our results suggest that increased tear plasmin activity during extended contact lens wear may be attributable to the effects of eye closure rather than hypoxia or the presence of the contact lens per se.
Group IIA phospholipase A2 content of tears in patients with atopic blepharoconjunctivitis.	To determine the concentration of group IIA phospholipase A(2) (GIIAPLA(2)) in tears of patients with atopic blepharoconjunctivitis (ABC), and to compare it with the GIIAPLA(2) concentration of tears in age-matched healthy controls.
Tear lactate dehydrogenase levels. A new method to assess effects of contact lens wear in man.	Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity in tears was measured in 202 myopic rigid gas permeable (RGP) and 79 hydrogel human contact lens wearers and 48 normal controls by noninvasive microcapillary sampling. The oxygen permeabilities (Dk) of five selected RGP contact lenses ranged between 0 and 230 x 10(-11) (cm2/s) ml O2/ml mm Hg), and the water content (WC) of the hydrogel lenses was 38, 72, and 80%. When normal diurnal variation of tear LDH activity and tear sample volume (0.3-0.6 microliters) were carefully controlled, the tear LDH activity of RGP lens wearers in daily and extended wear correlated as an inverse function of Dk/L, with the highest enzyme activity observed in wearers of polymethylmethacrylate daily wear lenses (347.4 U/L). The tear LDH activity in Menicon EX (Dk 108) lens wearers was higher in the extended wear (192.7 U/L) than in the daily wear group (161.9 U/L). There was no significant difference in tear LDH activity between the Menicon SF-P (Dk 230) extended wear group (132.0 U/L) and controls (133.5 U/L). In the hydrogel lens daily wear group, tear LDH activity of Experimental 72 (WC 72%) and Experimental 80 (WC 80%) was higher than that of hydroxyethylmethacrylate (HEMA) despite having high Dk value. Experimental 80 extended wearers showed lower LDH activity in tears sampled between 0.3 and 0.6 microliters than that of HEMA wearers. These results suggest that sequential measurement of LDH levels in tears may offer a new and unique method for the assessment of the physiologic effects of contact lens wear on the ocular surface, and provide a new clinical paradigm for the interaction of the contact lens with the cornea.
Activity of tissue and plasma kallikrein and level of their precursors in eye tissue structures and media of healthy rabbits]	Activity of tissue and blood plasma kallikreins as well as total content of their inactive precursors were studied in rabbit eye structures and media: iris, ciliary body, cornea, vascular striatum, retina, aqueous humor, tear liquid, lacrimal gland by means of fluorimetric procedure using Z-Phe-Arg-MCA as a substrate. Dissimilar capacity of the trypsin soya bean inhibitor and of aprotinin (basic inhibitor of Kunitz type) to inhibit tissue and blood plasma kallikreins enabled to differentiate the enzymatic activity. Lacrimal gland contained the highest activity of tissue kallikrein which amounted to 70% of total Z-Phe-Arg-MCA-hydrolyzing activity of the homogenate. Total Z-Phe-Arg-MCA-amidase activity and activity of individual kallikreins was distinctly lower in all the eye structures and media studied as compared with that of lacrimal gland. Activity of tissue kallikrein was higher than blood serum kallikrein activity in iris, ciliary body, vascular striatum, retina and conjunctiva. The highest content of prekallikreins was found in conjunctiva, aqueous humor, iris and ciliary body. Tissue and blood plasma kallikrein-kinin systems appear to carry out dissimilar functions in eye tissue structures; they are apparently involved in pathogenesis of some eye diseases.
Beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drugs: tear lysozyme and immunological screening for adverse reaction.	Patients who had received long-term therapy with practolol and other beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drugs were examined ophthalmologically. Tear lysozyme concentration and serum autoantibodies (antinuclear antibodies, DNA-binding antibodies and intercellular cement substance antibodies) were measured. It was found that beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drugs may have a pharmacological effect on the lachrymal glands, but this was not associated with dry eyes or adverse reaction. Practolol was found to be capable of reducing tear lysozyme concentrations to very low levels, and  this was initially associated with high titres of ICC antibody. No other drug tested produced these effects.
Tear lysozyme levels in bacterial, fungal and viral corneal ulcers.	Low levels of tear lysozyme were observed in patients with infective corneal ulcers, when compared with controls. Lowest levels were seen in patients with bacterial corneal ulcers. The levels of tear lysozyme showed a corresponding decrease with the increase in Schirmer test values; meaning thereby, that in ocular conditions associated with increased rate of tear flow, the lysozyme content in tears tends to be low.
Recovery of protein from tear fluid stored in cellulose sponges.	Human tear fluid collected in glass capillaries was absorbed in cellulose sponges. After various time intervals the recovery was measured for total protein, amylase (AMY), lysozyme (LZM), immunoglobulin A (IgA) and lactoferrin (LF). After one day storage at 4 degrees C of moistened sponges of at least 92% recovery was observed. Storage for longer periods at 4 degrees C up to seven days showed a decreasing recovery for total protein, AMY and IgA. Tear collection with sponges and storage of wet sponges for maximally one day at 4 degrees C followed by centrifugation or storage of the fluid at -20 degrees C are reliable ways of sample treatment.
Improvement of tear lysosomal enzyme levels after treatment with bone marrow transplantation in a patient with I-cell disease.	We examined the lysosomal enzyme levels in tear fluids from a patient with I-cell disease after treatment by bone marrow transplantation. Acid phosphatase, beta-D-glucuronidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, alpha-L-fucosidase and alpha-D-mannosidase activities were reduced to normal or nearly normal levels after the treatment. We believe that the measurement of tear enzyme levels in I-cell disease is useful for knowing the efficacy of the bone marrow transplantation.
Role of tears in maintaining corneal integrity.	In addition to providing a smooth optical surface, the tear film moistens and protects the cornea by providing a wide variety of antimicrobial substances. Accessory secretions of the conjunctiva and tarsal glands play an important protective role in lubricating, promiting wetting of the corneal epithelium by tears, stabilizing the extremely thin precorneal film, and reducing evaporation.
Concentration of angiotensin-converting enzyme in tears of patients with sarcoidosis.	The concentration of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) was studied in 39 patients with sarcoidosis, 6 of whom had active uveitis, 7 patients with non-sarcoid uveitis and 36 healthy controls. ACE concentration in tears was also compared with total protein concentration in tears in order to exclude the effect of varying dilution of tears at sampling. Mean tear ACE concentration and ACE/protein ratio were higher in patients with sarcoidosis than in controls. There were no significant differences in tear ACE concentration or ACE/protein ratio between sarcoidosis patients with uveitis and those with no eye involvement. Tear ACE concentration and ACE/protein ratio did not correlate significantly with serum ACE concentration. It is concluded that the mean concentration of tear ACE and ACE/protein ratio are elevated in sarcoidosis, but that this elevation is independent of any eye involvement.
Topographic diagnosis of facial paralysis by the assay of lysozyme concentration in tears.	Lysozyme in tears is secreted from the main lacrimal gland innervated by a parasympathetic nerve via the greater petrosal nerve. Lysozyme activity in tears was analysed in 10 cases of unilateral facial paralysis due to the cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumor and 10 normal cases. The lysozyme concentration in tears on the paralysed side collected by Schirmer No. 2 test was significantly lower than that on the healthy side, or bilateral sides of normal subjects. This decreased concentration on the paralysed side is due to the interruption of the reflex are at the level of CPA. It is concluded that our new method is more useful for topographical diagnosis of facial paralysis than is the conventional Schirmer's filter paper test.
PMN elastase determination in tear fluid in corneal ulcer]	The PMN-Elastase concentration in tear fluid was determined in 87 persons without eye disease and compared with the PMN-elastase values of 28 patients with ulcus corneae. A significant increase in the PMN-elastase concentration was found in patients with ulcus corneae (means = 1196 micrograms/l) in comparison with the control group (means = 73 micrograms/l). The lapse control shows that the PMN-elastase values in the tear fluid of patients with ulcus corneae are elevated for a number of weeks, even though there are clinical signs of healing of the ulcer. The determination of PMN-elastase in tear fluid represents a new parameter indicating the real end of the inflammatory processes in the eye.
Influence of lysozyme on aggregation of Staphylococcus aureus.	The conditions under which lysozyme aggregates Staphylococcus aureus were studied. Lysozyme was found to aggregate S. aureus at concentrations found in human tear secretions. Aggregate size depended upon lysozyme concentration, ionic strength, and bacterial concentration. There was a low level of adherence of S. aureus to corneal epithelial cells, and the adherence of a recent clinical isolate was not influenced by lysozyme concentrations found in human tear secretions. Lysozyme may enhance bacterial clearance from the corneal surface of the eye by promoting particle aggregation.
Lysosomal enzymes in tear fluids from patients with Terrien's marginal corneal degeneration.	We examined biochemically the lysosomal enzyme activities in tear fluids from patients with mild myopia, senile cataract, and Terrien's marginal corneal degeneration. Tear acid phosphatase activities in Terrien's degeneration were almost the same as those in mild myopia and senile cataract, while those of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in Terrien's degeneration were higher. The high activity of tear N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase may be derived from the lacrimal gland and infiltrate histiocytelike cells in Terrien's marginal corneal degeneration.
Lysosomal enzymes in tear fluids from patients with ocular diseases.	Lysosomal enzyme activities in the tear fluids were determined in patients with ocular diseases. Acid phosphatase, beta-D-glucuronidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, and beta-D-mannosidase activities were almost the same among the tear fluids from patients with myopia, rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, simple diabetic retinopathy and pigmentary retinal dystrophy. In contrast, the activities were lower in the affected eyes of patients with herpetic keratitis and vernal conjunctivitis than in the fellow normal eyes. It is possible that the lysosomal enzyme activities in the tears may be closely related to the condition of the external eye disease.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in ocular fluids.	Angiotensin II is a biological active octapeptide that is formed by the action of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) on the inactive precursor, angiotensin I. ACE activity was found in tears and aqueous humor from both rabbit and human eyes. The activity was higher in tears than aqueous humor. Enzyme activity was determined fluorimetrically from the rate of breakdown of the substrate, hippuryl-L-histidyl-L-leucine. The enzyme activity was further characterized by determining the effects of inhibitors. There was a significant difference in ACE levels in human tears when eye color was considered. People with either green or brown eyes had a higher ACE level than did blue-eyed individuals. The presence of this enzyme activity in ocular fluids suggests that angiotensin II may play a role in normal ocular physiology.
Lysozyme in the labial salivary glands of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Lysozyme (muramidase) levels in the saliva have previously been discovered to be elevated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a fact which has been tentatively ascribed to immunological reactivity in the salivary glands due to RA. To characterize further the mechanisms involved in elevation of salivary lysozyme, labial salivary glands from 57 RA patients and from 43 healthy control (CO) subjects were assessed morphologically, using ANAE (acid alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase) stain for B, T and MPS cells, as well as by immunoperoxidase kits for lysozyme. In addition, lysozyme concentration in serum, saliva and lacrimal fluid was chemically determined. Lysozyme immunoreactivity was disclosed in the serous acinar cells and in the epithelium of intercalated ducts, but never in the striated ducts. No difference in the localization or intensity of the staining could be found between RA and CO series. Lysozyme levels were elevated in serum and in saliva, but not in lacrimal fluid of RA patients. The percentile distribution on B, T, and MPS cells was equal in both series. MPS cells, which are known to be a rich source of lysozyme, were fewer in glands showing lysozyme immunoreactivity than in lysozyme-negative glands. This is evidence against the suggested direct relationship between MPS cell counts and lysozyme concentrations in external secretions. The results are discussed in terms of the immunological reactivity in salivary glands of patients affected by RA, with special emphasis on the intimate co-operation of the different protective systems (IgA, beta 2-microglobulin, lactoferrin, and lysozyme) shown to be operative in such glands.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lysozyme concentration in reflex and "basic" secretion.	When the lysozyme concentration (expressed in microgram/ml HEL) in reflex-stimulated tears was compared with tear fluid obtained after local anaesthesia (after correction for differences in volume and matched against standard concentrations of HEL with standard volume), there was no significant statistical difference. These findings suggest that there is either a common source for stimulated and unstimulated tears or there are two different sources for tears that are secreted with the same lysozyme concentration.
Immunochemical determination of human tear lysozyme (muramidase) in keratoconjunctivitis sicca.	Radial immunodiffusion was tested as an alternative for the agar diffusion assay for lysozyme in tear fluid. The influence of interactions between lysozyme and agarose or filter paper, used for sample collection, on the results of the immunodiffusion test was investigated. In 100 tear samples from 50 healthy volunteers and average lysozyme concentration of 1.9 g/l was found. Lysozyme values obtained by both methods in the tear fluid of a group of 78 volunteers, ranging from healthy individuals to severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca patients were compared. A lower limit of normal at 1.1 g/l was found by the radial immunodiffusion assay.
Immunohistochemical localization of human tear lysozyme.	Possible local sources of human tear lysozyme were investigated using an indirect immunofluorescence technique. Lysozyme was identified in 20% to 50% of acinar and ductular epithelial cells of both main and accessory lacrimal glands. The staining was granular in character and confined to the apices of the cells. Cells that stained positive tended to be grouped. Interstitial tissues of main and accessory lacrimal tissues did not stain. Conjunctiva and all other ocular tissues examined were unstained by antilysozyme antisera. Our findings are compatible with lysozyme either being produced in lacrimal tissue or being concentrated from plasma. The absence of any other lysozyme-specific fluorescence in the interstitial elements of the lacrimal tissues supports the notion of local synthesis by acinar lacrimal tissue.
The questionably dry eye.	This paper is concerned with the recognition of the dry eye when the clinical diagnosis is in doubt and other external eye diseases may be present. Papillary conjunctivitis is common to the dry eye as well as other pathological conditions and confuses the diagnosis. We have correlated the factors involved in the assessment for dryness. We have shown that particulate matter in the unstained tear film is associated with low tear lysozyme concentration. Tear flow and tear lysozyme are not necessarily interrelated, but a low lysozyme concentration (tear lysozyme ratio < 1.0) is associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. The Schirmer I test can produce false positive results, and we have suggested a modification to overcome this. This modified test will detect the eye with severely depleted lysozyme secretion, but it is unreliable for detecting the eye with moderately depleted secretion. We find that its lowest normal limit should be considered as 6 mm.
Inhibitors of plasmin-like enzymes and autofibronectin in the treatment of corneal epithelial defects]	Effects of instillations of proteinase inhibitors and autologous fibronectin on the course of regeneration processes in corneal epithelial defects were studied in patients after perforating and lamellar keratoplasty, cataract extraction, trabecul- and vitrectomy. Proteinase inhibitors contrykal or gordox were administered to these patients to neutralize increased activity of lacrimal plasmin-like enzymes which was 899.3 +/- 80.8 rel. U on day 1 of observation vs. 50.72 +/- 7.73 in normal subjects. Contrykal (gordox) helped significantly reduce these enzymes activities in patients with corneal epithelial defects in comparison with the control group as soon as during the first days of the observation. Combined use of contrykal (gordox) and autologous fibronectin helped attain complete epithelialization in all the patients in 12.3 +/- 1.7 days (47.9 +/- 6.3 days in controls).
Electrophoretic polymorphism in rabbit tear lysozyme.	Rabbit tears were found to contain two lysozymes which differed in their electrophoretic mobility and were designated tear lysozymes 1 and 2. Rabbit tear lysozyme 1 was purified to homogeneity by conventional purification methods. It was found to be distinct from other known mammalian c-type lysozymes, rabbit tear lysozyme 2 and the major rabbit gastrointestinal lysozyme. The activity profile is centered around the neutral region with an optimum of 7 which is slightly lower than that for chicken lysozyme. The thermal stability as well as inhibition profiles by the substrate analogues, N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) and chitotetraose (NAG)4 are comparable to those of chicken lysozyme. Based on its molecular weight and catalytic properties this isozyme is classified as a c-type lysozyme.
Enzymatic analysis of lacrimal fluid in viral keratitis]	Activities of four antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, catalase, and peroxidase) and of three transferases (serum glutamic oxaloacetic and pyruvic transaminases, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase) were measured in the lacrimal fluid of patients with herpetic keratitis. Measurements of lacrimal enzymes in the course of the disease helps assess the efficacy of treatment and permits its correction. After the treatment of herpetic keratitis is over, activities of the lacrimal enzymes should be assessed together with clinical signs, this permitting a prediction of a recurrence of ophthalmic herpes and timely administration of anti-relapse treatment.
Ocular findings in I-cell disease (mucolipidosis type II).	The ultrastructural study of the eyes in seven patients affected with I-cell disease (mucolipidosis type II) revealed important changes in the corneal, scleral, and uveal fibroblasts, while other cells were rarely involved. This explains the inconstant corneal clouding and the absence of ophthalmoscopic abnormalities clinically. At any moment of a patient's life, conjunctival biopsy specimens show characteristic alterations and allow the rapid and secure diagnosis of I-cell disease. This examination should be widely used in the screening of lysosomal diseases.
