Delivery and retention of an insulin aerosol produced by a new jet nebulizer.	This study describes the delivery and distribution of an aerosol generated by a jet nebulizer (MAXIN) in an experimental animal model. Anesthetised, intubated and ventilated piglets inhaled radiolabeled technetium diethylene-triamine-penta-acetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) through the endotracheal tube. The lungs were excised en bloc and scintigraphed, using a computerized gamma camera to evaluate the pattern of distribution. By nebulizing radiolabeled 125I-insulin and comparing the activity deposited on inspiratory and expiratory electrostatic filters, delivery and retention of nebulized insulin was assessed. The distribution of aerosol in the lungs was very even and reached the most peripheral parts. The delivery of nebulized insulin was calculated to be 88.9 +/- 5.3% and 36.1 +/- 8.8% of the insulin delivered to the respiratory tract was retained. The immediate local effects of insulin aerosol administration on the lungs were evaluated using light microscopy. No adverse effects were observed at histopathologic examination of the lung tissue.
99mTc-GSA dynamic SPECT for regional hepatic functional reserve estimation: assessment of quantification]	For the estimation of regional hepatic functional reserve, we produced a three-dimensional hepatic functional mapping method employing 99mTc-GSA dynamic SPECT. In this analyzing protocol, we applied Patlak plot for the estimation of the liver uptake parameter of GSA, which is named hepatic GSA clearance, because it is relatively simple and suitable for matrix by matrix analysis. In this study, we assessed the physiological implication of estimated parameters and the clinical value of this analyzing method for hepatic functional reserve estimation. After venous injection of 185 MBq of GSA (3 mg), fifteen sequential sets of SPECT data were acquired for 15 minutes. First 5 sets (minutes) SPECT images were analyzed by Patlak plot and hepatic GSA clearance (ml/min) was obtained in each matrix. The sum of hepatic GSA clearance in each matrix (total hepatic GSA clearance) was calculated as an index of whole liver functional reserve. Total hepatic GSA clearance was compared with receptor index or effective blood flow (EHBF) of whole liver which were analyzed by Direct Integral Linear Least Square Regression (DILS) method for the assessment of the physiological implications of hepatic GSA clearance. The clinical value of total hepatic GSA clearance was assessed in comparisons with the conventional hepatic function test. A very good correlations were observed between total hepatic GSA clearance and receptor index (r = 0.935, p < 0.0001, n = 49), whereas the correlations between total hepatic GSA clearance and EHBF were not significant. Significant correlations were also observed between total hepatic GSA clearance and the conventional hepatic function tests, such as choline esterase (r = 0.517, p = 0.0001, n = 47), albumin (r = 0.612, p < 0.0001, n = 49), hepaplastin test (r = 0.539, p < 0.0001, n = 47), ICG R15 (r = -0.616, p < 0.0001, n = 37). These results suggested that hepatic GSA clearance strongly reflects hepatic receptor function and this parameter seemed to be useful for the hepatic functional reserve estimation.
99mTc-GSA dynamic SPECT for regional hepatic functional reserve estimation: assessment of clinical value for hepatic resection]	We assessed the clinical value of three-dimensional functional mapping method employing GSA dynamic SPECT for the estimation of residual hepatic functional reserve before hepatic resection. Seventy-two consecutive patients of liver tumor were recruited in this study. Thirty-seven underwent segmentectomy or lobectomy and 35 did subsegmentectomy. GSA studies were carried out in all 72 patients before operation. Postoperative studies were performed in 70 patients about 1 month after operation, and 2 patients died of postoperative hepatic failure early after operation. In the preoperative study, liver functional images were divided into 4 segments according to liver anatomy and segmental GSA clearance was analyzed. The sum of GSA clearance of the segments immune from resection were calculated as predicted residual GSA clearance. Two patients who showed poor predicted residual hepatic GSA clearance died of postoperative hepatic failure within two months after operation (extended right lobectomy). There were good correlations between pre- and postoperative total liver clearance in patients underwent subsegmentectomy (r = 0.900, p < 0.0001, n = 35), and between predicted residual clearance and postoperative total clearance in patients underwent segmentectomy or lobectomy (r = 0.799, p < 0.0001, n = 35). After hepatic resection, there seemed to be discrepancies between hepatic volume expansion and functional restoration in some patients. Mean GSA clearance (clearance per unit volume) apparently decreased after operation in patients whose residual volume ratio (preoperative predicted residual liver volume/preoperative total liver volume) were less than 50% (p < 0.01, n = 12). These results suggested that three-dimensional functional mapping method employing GSA dynamic SPECT can provide quantitative information of postoperative hepatic function and reserve before hepatic resection. Changes of mean GSA clearance after hepatic resection suggested that hepatic function per unit volume changes in the process of hepatic regeneration.
Semi-quantitative ventilation/perfusion scintigraphy and single-photon emission tomography for evaluation of lung volume reduction surgery candidates: description and prediction of clinical outcome.	Ventilation/perfusion scans with single-photon emission tomography (SPET) were reviewed to determine their usefulness in the evaluation of lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) candidates, and as a predictor of outcome after surgery. Fifty consecutive planar ventilation (99mTc-DTPA aerosol) and perfusion (99mTc-MAA) scans with perfusion SPET of patients evaluated for LVRS were retrospectively reviewed. Technical quality and the severity and extent of radiotracer defects in the upper and lower halves of the lungs were scored from visual inspection of planar scans and SPET data separately. An emphysema index (EI) (extent x severity) for the upper and lower halves of the lung, and an EI ratio for upper to lower lung were calculated for both planar and SPET scans. The ratios were compared with post-LVRS outcomes, 3, 6 and 12 months after surgery. All perfusion and SPET images were technically adequate. Forty-six percent of ventilation scans were not technically adequate due to central airway tracer deposition. Severity, extent, EI scores and EI ratios between perfusion and SPET were in good agreement (r = 0.52-0.68). The mean perfusion EI ratio was significantly different between the 30 patients undergoing biapical LVRS and the 17 patients excluded from LVRS (3.3+/-1.8 versus 1.2+/-0.7; P<0.0001), in keeping with the anatomic distribution of emphysema by which patients were selected for surgery by computed tomography (CT). The perfusion EI ratio correlated moderately with the change in FEV1 at 3 months (r = 0.37, P = 0.04), 6 months (r = 0.36, P = 0.05), and 12 months (r = 0.42, P = 0.03), and the transition dyspnea index at 6 months (r = 0.48, P = 0.014) after LVRS. It is concluded that patients selected to undergo LVRS have more severe and extensive apical perfusion deficits than patients not selected for LVRS, based on CT determination. SPET after aerosol V/Q imaging does not add significantly to planar perfusion scans. Aerosol DTPA ventilation scans are not consistently useful. Perfusion lung scanning may be useful in selecting patients with successful outcomes after LVRS.
Correlation of 99mTc-GSA hepatic scintigraphy with liver biopsies in patients with chronic active hepatitis type C.	99mTc-DTPA-galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-GSA) liver scintigraphy was performed in 230 patients with chronic active hepatitis type C, and its quantitative indices were compared with histological findings. 99mTc-GSA findings correlated well with four indices of the histology activity index (HAI), especially with the fibrosis score. Ninety patients were given interferon treatments, and 99mTc-GSA findings were compared with the results of the treatments. We classified the effects of interferon treatment into three groups according to clinical outcome: group 1: good effect (HCV-RNA negative, n = 34), group 2: moderate effect (HCV-RNA positive, but the value of GPT was normal for six months after the end of treatment, n = 19) and group 3: no effect (n = 37). Quantitative indices of 99mTc-GSA showed significant differences between groups. Follow-up study with 99mTc-GSA scintigrams was obtained in eight patients. The results of 99mTc-GSA improved in three patients in group 1 and deteriorated in five patients in group 3. There is a possibility that 99mTc-GSA scintigraphy can be used to predict the clinical outcome of chronic active hepatitis type C after interferon treatment.
The effect of dialysate dwell on gastric emptying time in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.	We evaluated gastric emptying time (GET) with a technetium (Tc) 99m-sulfur colloid gastric emptying scan in 11 patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) (6 males, 5 females) and in 14 controls. We investigated the effect of dialysate dwell on GET by studying the subjects twice: once without dialysate in the abdomen (drained) and once with 2 L of dialysate in the abdomen (full). We also investigated the relationship between body surface area (BSA) and delayed gastric emptying.
Breathing patterns and aerosol delivery: impact of regular human patterns, and sine and square waveforms on rate of delivery.	In vitro tests are commonly employed to assess nebulizer performance. Whether the square or sine waveforms employed during in vitro tests could alter the nebulizer performance compared to that observed when a patient breathes through the nebulizer is debatable. Accordingly, the aim of this in vitro study was to compare the rates of delivery from nebulizers with simulated human breathing patterns to those obtained with matching sine and square waveforms. Regular human breathing patterns with tidal volumes (VT) of approximately 40, approximately 200, approximately 500, and approximately 800 mL were selected. Sine and square waveforms that matched the VT, peak inspiratory flow rate (PIF), breathing frequency (f), and inspiratory duty cycle (t(i)/t(tot)) of the human breathing patterns were created with a breathing simulator. The rate of delivery of nebulized technetium-99m-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (99mTC-DTPA) from two different jet nebulizer brands was determined. The rate of delivery was defined as the amount of the 99mTC-DTPA deposited during 30 sec of nebulization on a filter placed between the nebulizer and the breathing simulator. The rate of delivery of 99mTC-DTPA with the human breathing pattern was similar to that measured with the matching sine or square waveforms for either nebulizer. The configuration of the breath (PIF, VT, f, t(i)/t(tot)) did, however, influence the rate of delivery. In conclusion, the shape of the waveform, in other words, one resulting from a human breathing pattern, or a matching sine or square waveform, did not influence the rate of 99mTC-DTPA delivery from a nebulizer in vitro.
99mTc galactosyl human serum albumin liver dynamic SPET for pre-operative assessment of hepatectomy in relation to percutaneous transhepatic portal embolization.	We have devised an original predictive residual index (PRI) using 99mTc diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-GSA) liver dynamic SPET for the pre-operative assessment of hepatectomy, including the prediction of residual liver function before hepatectomy. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of the PRI by using 99mTc-GSA liver dynamic SPET before and after percutaneous transhepatic portal embolization (PTPE) to induce compensatory hypertrophy of the remnant lobe, and to compare the results with the prognosis after hepatectomy. The subjects included eight patients with cholangiocellular carcinoma, five with gallbladder cancer, four with hepatocellular carcinoma and three with metastatic liver cancer. 99mTc-GSA liver dynamic SPET was performed immediately before and 2 weeks after PTPE. Dynamic SPET with 35 continuous rotations was performed to obtain the k-value according to the accumulation curve in each voxel (0.54 cm x 0.54 cm x 1.08 cm) of the liver immediately after a bolus injection of 185 MBq 99mTc-GSA. Each rotation consisted of 180 degrees turn in 64 steps in a 64 x 64 matrix. The acquisition time of each rotation was 35 s. We devised an original PRI by combining the k-value with functional liver volume which were measured by liver dynamic SPET. Hepatectomy was performed following the second SPET. The correlation between the PRI and post-operative patient prognosis was investigated retrospectively. The functional liver volume of the remnant lobe and the PRI significantly increased after PTPE compared with respective values before PTPE (P<0.005 and P<0.0001, respectively). Regarding the relationship between the PRI and the clinical course following surgery, post-operative complications were observed in only two patients. The PRI values of these two patients were 0.323 and 0.394. When the PRI was above 0.400, no patient had symptoms of hepatic failure. The results of this study suggest that, when the PRI value is above 0.400, there is a low probability of hepatic failure after hepatectomy. We conclude that the PRI devised in this study is useful in the pre-operative assessment of hepatectomy after PTPE.
Comparison of Tc-99m-GSA scintigraphy with hepatic fibrosis and regeneration in patients with hepatectomy.	Liver regeneration after hepatectomy is correlated with liver fibrosis. Retrospectively, we compared three quantitative indices (HH15, LHL15 and LU15) of Technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-galactosyl-human serum albumin (Tc-99m-GSA) liver scintigraphy with liver fibrosis; in particular, we compared the HH15 index and the rate of remnant liver regeneration.
Quantitative analysis for assessing regional function of liver by using 99mTc-GSA SPECT.	In the present study, we developed quantitative index for evaluating regional liver function using 99mTc diethylenetriamine-pentaacetic acid galactosyl human serum albumin (GSA). A three head SPECT equipped with a low energy high resolution parallel hole collimator was used. Used pre-filter was Butterworth and axial images were reconstructed by a ramp filter without attenuation correction. Correlation between SPECT counts and net concentration of activity of radioisotopes was evaluated in basic consideration using LKS and Nine-Ball phantoms. SPECT Counts = 0.6 x RI concentration. There was a simple correlation among GSA receptor amounts (Cr), injected GSA amounts (S), free GSA amounts (Cf), and intra hepatic receptor ratio ((Cr ratio)). Cr = S - Cf. (Cr ratio) = Cr/S, 0 < (Cr ratio) < 1. Injected GSA amounts can be calculated from injected net RI counts. Free GSA amounts can be evaluated from counts of the heart. GSA receptor amounts can be assumed by performing SPECT three times in series. Regional GSA receptor amounts can be evaluated from the ratio between the region's counts and whole counts. In clinical SPECT images, we could evaluate the regional GSA receptor amounts before and after chemolipiodolization. In conclusion, our method is a simple quantitative index of analyzing regional GSA receptor amounts.
Expressing glomerular filtration rate in terms of extracellular fluid volume.	Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is routinely calculated from the second exponential of the bi-exponential plasma clearance of filtration markers such as Cr-51 EDTA and Tc-99m DTPA. By ignoring the first exponential, true GFR is overestimated, an error which increases with increasing GFR. The rate constant, lambda 2, of the second exponential represents the rate at which glomerular filtration 'turns over' the extracellular fluid (ECF) and so closely approximates GFR/ECF volume. Again, the error in the estimation of this ratio increases with increasing GFR, although in this case it underestimates the true ratio. Expressing GFR in terms of ECF volume, rather than in terms of body surface area, offers considerable technical and physiological advantages. The relationship between GFR/ECF volume and lambda 2, over a wide range of renal function, expressed as a second order polynomial, was GFR/ECF volume = -0.093 + 1.06 lambda 2 + 0.009 lambda 2(2) ml.min-1.l-1. The corresponding relationship between 'true' GFR (C1) and approximate GFR (i.e. based only on the second exponential--C2) was C1 = -0.58 + 1.012C2 -0.0011 C2(2) ml.min-1 For any level of renal function, the error in GFR/ECF volume, expressed as lambda 2, is less than the error in GFR expressed as C2. Since GFR may change as a direct result of a change in ECF volume, it is physiologically more relevant, and technically very much easier, to express GFR in terms of ECF volume rather than body surface area.
Screening for renovascular disease with captopril-enhanced renography.	Changes in renal function caused by angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can be detected on 99mTc-DTPA renography so that DTPA scanning before and after a single dose of captopril can be used to screen for renovascular disease. We have performed captopril-DTPA scans with renal arteriography on 104 patients, of whom 27 had renal artery stenosis, all due to atheroma. Using a 5% fall in divided function or a delay of greater than 15 min in time to peak activity on one side after captopril, or the finding of greater than 90% divided function on one side before captopril as criteria for a positive scan, a sensitivity of 93% and specificity of 70% was achieved. The negative predictive value of the test in our population was 93%. Bilateral improvement in renographic function after captopril was seen in patients with accelerated phase hypertension. The presence of bilateral renal artery disease did not reduce the sensitivity of the test, but sensitivity was reduced (75%) in patients with renal impairment. Clinical characteristics in our patients most strongly associated with renal artery stenosis were abdominal bruit, recurrent left ventricular failure, and peripheral vascular disease. In view of the well-publicized risks of ACE inhibitor therapy, care should be exercised in the use of these agents in such patients.
Prospective study on the gastro-pulmonary infection route of ventilator-associated pneumonia]	To explore the role of gastro-pulmonary infection route in the development of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), so as to improve the management of VAP.
Clinical characteristics of eight patients with congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.	Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is characterized by the insensitivity of the distal nephron to arginine vasopressin. Clinical knowledge of this disease is based largely on case reports. For this study, we investigated the clinical findings of eight patients in terms of age at onset, age at diagnosis, main complaint, results of physical examination, the diagnosis, the effect of treatment, kidney function, and presence or absence of gene defects. The main complaints of all eight cases at initial examination were unknown fever, failure to thrive, and short stature. Polyuria and polydipsia are not always the chief complaints with congenital NDI. In one case, diabetes insipidus could be diagnosed based only on the results of a 5% hypertonic saline test. In six cases, we found abnormalities in the V2 receptor gene. Initially, trichlormethiazide therapy was shown to have a significant effect on polyuria; however, this effect decreased over time. In one patient with partial NDI, the addition of trichlormethiazide twice a day to 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin increased urine osmolality in the morning and caused nocturia to disappear. Results of 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid kidney scintigraphy revealed a slight decrease in glomerular filtration rate in three patients. No patient experienced serious renal dysfunction.
Safety of hepatectomy for living donors as evaluated using asialoscintigraphy.	In the living donor operation, accurate estimation of hepatic functional reserve is essential. Technetium-99m-galactosyl-human serum albumin (GSA) is a liver scintigraphy agent that binds to asialoglycoprotein receptors. We evaluated the preoperative assessment of the safety of an elective hepatectomy using GSA liver scintigraphy in 152 patients. GSA scintigraphy was performed after intravenous injection of GSA. The maximal removal rate of GSA (GSA-Rmax) was calculated using a radiopharmacokinetic model. We determined the areas for resection preoperatively depending on the operative procedures and calculated the local GSA-Rmax in the predicted residual liver (GSA-RL). A significant correlation was obtained between the GSA-Rmax and the 15-minute retention rate of indocyanine green. With sub- and monosegmentectomy, 2 patients had postoperative hepatic failure; in those 2 patients, the GSA-RL was 0.127 and 0.133, respectively, but these patients recovered well. Among those having di- and tri-segmentectomy, 5 patients experienced postoperative hepatic failure, in all subjects the GSA-RL was <0.15. Two patients died of postoperative liver failure 1 to 2 months after the operation. We concluded that GSA-RL is useful to select the procedure for hepatectomy in living donors and that GSA-RL should be >0.15 (mg/min/50 kg body weight) to avoid postoperative hepatic failure.
Functional hepatic regeneration following hepatectomy using galactosyl-human serum albumin liver scintigraphy.	In extended hepatectomy and liver transplantation, accurate estimation of functional hepatic regeneration is more important than volumetric regeneration. We investigated the usefulness of measuring the functional hepatic volume by 99m-technetium galactosyl-human serum albumin scintigraphy (GSA). Extended hepatectomy was performed in 32 patients. These patients were divided into subgroups with or without chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis. Functional hepatic volume GSA scintigraphy (GSA-LV) and determination of hepatic volume by CT (CT-LV) measurements were performed preoperatively, at 2 and 4 weeks and at 3 and 6 months after surgery. The preoperative GSA-LV values were significantly correlated with the hepatocyte volume and the 15-minute retention rate of indocyanine green (ICGR15). Similarly, the hepatocyte volume correlated well with the CT-LV and ICGR15. However, the CT-LV correlated only with the ICGR15. Recovery of the GSA-LV was delayed, and about 90% of the volumetric and functional regeneration was observed within 6 months after the hepatectomy. In contrast, the CT-LV in patients with normal liver remnants returned to approximately 90% of the initial volume within 1 month after the hepatectomy, whereas patients with injured livers regeneration showed gradual recovery to approximately 80% of the preoperative value by 6 months after hepatectomy. We conclude that measurement of functional hepatic volume using the GSA-LV is useful to evaluate hepatic function based on hepatocyte volume.
Effect of glomerular filtration rate on clearance and myelotoxicity of carboplatin in cats with tumors.	To characterize the pharmacokinetic disposition of carboplatin and determine whether glomerular filtration rate (GFR) could be used to predict carboplatin clearance and myelotoxic effects in cats with tumors.
A study on attenuation correction using Tc-99m external TCT source in Tc-99m GSA liver SPECT.	In attenuation correction of ECT images by transmission CT (TCT) with an external 99mTc gamma-ray source, simultaneous TCT/ECT data acquisition is difficult, when the same radionuclide such as 99mTc-tetrofosmin or 99mTc-GSA is used as the tracer. In this case, TCT is usually acquired before administration of the tracer, and ECT is acquired separately after the tracer injection. However, misregistration may occur between the TCT and ECT images, and the repetition of examinations add to the mental and physical stress of the patients. In this study, to eliminate this problem, we evaluated whether attenuation correction of ECT images can be achieved by acquiring TCT and ECT simultaneously, then acquiring ECT alone, and preparing an attenuation map by subtracting the latter from the former using 99mTc-GSA liver ECT.
In vivo evaluation of time and site of disintegration of polysaccharide tablet prepared for colon-specific drug delivery.	Compression coating has been found to be useful for colonic drug delivery. The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate a formulation with a considerably reduced coat weight and gum concentration for colonic drug delivery in vivo using gamma scintigraphy. In vitro studies have found this formulation to be useful for delivery of 5-fluorouracil to the colon. Rapidly disintegrating core tablets containing (99m)Tc-DTPA were prepared and compression coating with 150 mg of granules containing a mixture of xanthan (XG), guar gum (GG) and starch. The ratios of the two gums XG:GG in the coat was kept 10:20. In vitro dissolution studies on XG:GG::10:20 tablets containing (99m)Tc-DTPA were carried out in simulated upper GIT conditions and also in presence of colonic contents. Cumulative percent release of technetium in the upper GIT conditions and transit time amounted to 4%. The total amount of technetium released in the 24 h of the dissolution study was 53+/-3.23%. Upon introduction of cecal content into the dissolution medium (4%), the release of technetium from the compression-coated tablet increased to 78.34+/-5.34%. Gamma scintigraphy studies carried out in six healthy human volunteers showed that the tablet remained intact during its transit through the upper GIT. The anatomical site of disintegration was found to be the ascending colon/hepatic flexure and the disintegration of the tablet started between 4 and 6 h post-dose in all the volunteers with a further spread of tracer into the ascending, transverse, descending and sigmoidal colon.
Renal functional response to captopril during diuretic therapy.	Antihypertensive agents may modify the renal effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI). This potential interaction, which is important in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension was studied in two rat models with and without diuretic treatment prior to ACEI. Acute intravenous administration of furosemide or hydrochlorothiazide in one-kidney, one-clamp animals (1K1C) did not change glomerular filtration rate (GFR) or effective renal plasma flow (ERPF). ACEI administration after furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide decreased GFR (p less than 0.001, p less than 0.01) but not ERPF. Chlorothiazide administered to 1K1C prior to ACEI, decreased GFR (p less than 0.02) but not ERPF captopril administration to 1K1C which received hydrochlorothiazide intraperitoneally for 7-10 days decreased GFR (p less than 0.007) and ERPF (p less than 0.02), while two-kidney, one-clamp animals (2K1C) decreased GFR only in the clamped kidney (p less than 0.005). ERPF in 2K1C increased only in the contralateral kidney (p less than 0.01). Without diuretic 1K1C animals decreased GFR and ERPF after ACEI (p less than 0.005, P less than 0.001). In the clamped kidney of 2K1C rats, GFR and ERPF decreased significantly (p less than 0.0005, p less than 0.004) and contralateral kidney ERPF increased (p less than 0.001), but GFR did not. The consequences of ACEI on GFR are similar with or without diuretic. These data suggest that diuretic therapy may not significantly interfere with ACEI evaluation of renovascular hypertension.
Clinical utility of non invasive methods in the evaluation of scleroderma lung in pediatric age.	Lung involvement in children affected with Systemic Sclerosis (SSc) has been studied. We used ventilation and perfusion scans and compared the results to those obtained with traditional pulmonary function tests. The vascular pulmonary area was examined with a gama-camera after infusion of 99mTc microspheres, while the alveolo-capillary membrane and the airways were investigated after administration of a radioaerosol, (99mTc DTPA). Pulmonary function tests revealed either alteration of the airways or a considerable involvement of the alveolo-capillary membrane in two patients. On the other hand ventilation scan showed airways alterations and a severe decrease of the alveolocapillary permeability in all patients. Our study indicates that ventilation scans may be useful in the diagnosis of early modifications of the lung function also in paediatric age and may complement the data obtained from traditional function tests.
Sequential pulmonary effects of radiotherapy detected by functional and radiological end points in women with breast cancer.	To determine the pulmonary effects of locoregional irradiation on clinical and sub-clinical radiographic and functional end points in women with breast cancer, and whether the course of these end points is affected by laterality.
Abnormal captopril renogram in a patient without renovascular hypertension.	Captopril renal scintigraphy is a well-known noninvasive tool in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension. The authors present a case of a patient with malignant hypertension whose captopril renal scintigraphy suggested bilateral and equal renovascular hypertension. His renal angiogram, however, demonstrated no renal artery stenosis or abdominal aortic atherosclerotic disease. False-positive captopril renal scintigraphy has been reported but can usually be attributed to the patient's hypotensive episode after captopril administration, volume or salt depletion, or chronic glomerulonephropathy. This patient demonstrated mild blood pressure changes after captopril administration and was not volume or salt depleted. His creatinine was 1.6 mg/dl on admission but demonstrated appropriate renal function on subsequent noncaptopril renal scintigraphy.
Crossed renal ectopia. Correlative imaging.	Anatomic variants of the kidneys are often noted during renal scintigraphy and other imaging studies. These conditions have a variable effect on overall renal function and can cause confusion, both clinically and on initial imaging. The authors describe a case of unfused, crossed renal ectopia in an elderly woman that appeared to be an abdominal mass and was subsequently evaluated by computed tomography, ultrasound, and scintigraphy.
Small urine leak after renal transplantation: detection by delayed 99mTc-DTPA renography--a case report.	This case report involves a 45-y-old woman after cadaveric renal transplantation. The initial renal scan on the first postsurgical day showed normal findings. Subsequently, on the sixth postsurgical day, the patient had decreased urine output; 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid renal scanning was performed again and did not show definite scintigraphic evidence of a urine leak. The patient's condition was not improving; renal scanning was repeated on day 20 and demonstrated a large photopenic region surrounding the superior, medial, and inferior aspects of the kidney. Delayed imaging was performed 2.5 h after injection of radiotracer, and activity was observed in the previously cold region.
Limitations of glomerular filtration rate equations in the renal transplant patient.	This study aims to compare the performance of endogenous creatinine clearance (CL(cr)) and a number of published mathematical equations to calculate glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in renal transplant patients considering (99m)Tc DTPA isotope scan as the reference method. A total of 152 GFR were performed on 81 renal transplant patients. Accuracy of each method was measured at different percentiles. The bias and precision of all the methods were then compared. A paired t-test was used to compare the performance of each calculation to the respective GFR measured by isotope study performed on the same day. In the total population, all calculated methods correlated significantly with the isotope results. Accuracies within specific ranges of the isotope GFR were limited in all equations (agreement with isotope result </=72% at 30% accuracy range in the total group). Within the limited accuracy, Edwards' equation (K.D. Edwards and H.M. Whyte, Australas Ann Med 1959; vol. 8: p. 218) had the least bias in the total population. Bjornsson (T.D. Bjornsson, Clin Pharmacokinet 1979; vol. 4: p. 200) had the least bias in patients with GFR >/= 50 mL/min and Gates in patients with GFR < 50 mL/min. Salazar (D.E. Salazar and G.B. Corcoran, Am J Med 1988; vol. 84: p. 1053) had the least bias in patients with BMI above 30 kg/m(2) and the Davis equation (G.A. Davis and M.H. Chandler, Am J Health Syst Pharm 1996; vol. 53: p. 1028) in patients with BMI <25 kg/m(2). In all analyses, Nankivell (B.J. Nankivell, S.M. Gruenwald, R.D.M. Allen and J.R. Chapman, Transplantation 1995; vol. 59: p. 1683) overestimated GFR by more than 80% and MDRD 1 and 2 in <10% of the time. The results demonstrate the inherited limitation in the currently available equations to calculate GFR in renal transplant patients.
Phase II clinical study on 99mTc-GSA, a new agent for functional imaging of the liver]	Phase II study of 99mTc-DTPA-galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-GSA), a new radiopharmaceutical which binds to the asialoglycoprotein receptors on the hepatocytes, was performed in 81 patients with liver diseases to validate its safety and possibility for the evaluation of hepatic function. None of adverse reactions, abnormal clinical laboratory findings and anti-99mTc-GSA antibody production due to 99mTc-GSA was recognized. Immediately after the injection of 99mTc-GSA, the dynamic data and serial hepatic images were obtained for 60 min. The indices for blood clearance and liver accumulation were calculated based on the counts in the regions of interest on the hearts and livers. In 54 patients with chronic hepatic disorders such as liver cirrhosis, the blood clearance and liver accumulation of 99mTc-GSA were retarded according to the progress of the hepatic disorders. The findings of 99mTc-GSA scintigraphy also reflected the hepatic functions of the patients with large hepatic tumors, obstructive jaundice and acute hepatitis. These results suggest that 99mTc-GSA has the clinical potentials to evaluate the liver functions in the patients with hepatic disorders.
Radioisotopic cisternography in benign intracranial hypertension of young obese women. A seven-case study and pathogenetic suggestions.	The Authors report a series of seven obese women suffering from Benign Intracranial Hypertension (BIH), all submitted to radioisotopic cisternography. Cisternographic findings showed altered patterns of CSF clearance in all but one patient, suggesting that an increased arachnoid resistance to CSF efflux might be present in BIH of obese women. The pathophysiology of BIH is discussed: different pathogenetic mechanisms may contribute to its development with a relative importance depending on the specific etiology of the syndrome.
Effect of pattern of aerosol inhalation on clearance of technetium-99m-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid from the lungs of normal humans.	The clearance rate of inhaled aerosols of technetium-99m-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) from the lungs provides a rapid, clinically useful, noninvasive index of pulmonary epithelial permeability. In order to identify a method that minimizes intrasubject and intersubject variability and thereby provides a reliable means to identify patients with abnormal values, we administered a submicronic aerosol of 99mTc-DTPA to 10 healthy, nonsmoking male subjects with either tidal breathing (Vtidal) or multiple vital capacity maneuvers (VVC). Subjects then spontaneously breathed room air while counting continued for 30 min. Monoexponential clearance rates over 7, 15, and 30 min were compared with a two-compartment, biexponential analysis over 30 min. Intrasubject reproducibility was evaluated by repeating clearance 2 to 156 days later. Monoexponential clearance following VVC at 30 min equaled 1.36 +/- 0.55%/min compared with 0.83 +/- 0.25%/min for Vtidal (p less than 0.025). VVC inhalations resulted in a larger fast compartment of 16 +/- 12% compared with 3 +/- 2% with tidal breathing (p less than 0.01). The least intrasubject variability with coefficient of variation (CV) of +/- 18% was obtained with monoexponential analyses after Vtidal during 15 min of scanning and with either breathing maneuver over 30 min. Monoexponential clearance for 30 min with Vtidal gave the least scatter between subjects, with CV of +/- 30%. These data show that simple tidal inhalations of 99mTc-DTPA followed by a monoexponential analysis of the 30-min time-activity curve from both lungs minimize the degree of variability between and among subjects and provide a predicted normal value of clearance of 0.83 +/- 0.25%/min. The development of a more rapid curvilinear clearance followed by delivery VVC suggests that several deep breaths transiently increase epithelial permeability or reduce the volume of liquid in the alveolar subphase in some regions. Resting for 20 min prior to inhaling the aerosol of 99mTc-DTPA is recommended to avoid alterations in clearance rates from deep breathing.
Regional sensitivity of human airways to capsaicin-induced cough.	To examine the sensitivity of different parts of the human respiratory tract to a tussive and bronchoconstrictor stimulus, randomized, standardized single breaths of capsaicin aerosols were inhaled by nine healthy, nonsmoking subjects. A small droplet aerosol (3.2 microns MMD) was inhaled slowly (0.25 L/s), and a large droplet aerosol (5.2 microns MMD) was inhaled rapidly (1.0 L/s) to optimize differences in deposition, which were assessed after inhalation of 99mTc-DTPA aerosols with similar characteristics. Both capsaicin aerosols (zero to 256 microM) produced a concentration-dependent cough response. The geometric means (95% Cl) for the concentrations causing two coughs (cough threshold) were 2.3 microM (1.1 to 4.9) and 8.7 microM (3.1 to 24.5) (p less than 0.02), respectively, with the small and large droplet aerosols. The concentrations causing five coughs were 5.5 microM (3.0 to 10.0) with the small droplet aerosol and 29.5 microM (8.3 to 104.7) with the large droplet aerosol (p less than 0.02). In contrast, FEV1, measured 2 min after the largest concentration of capsaicin, was not significantly altered by any of the two capsaicin aerosols. In each subject, a similar dose was deposited in the larynx with both aerosols, whereas the dose deposited in intrapulmonary airways was 2.3 times larger with the small droplet aerosol. This study confirmed that slow inhalation of a small droplet aerosol produced a more peripheral airway deposition than did rapid inhalation of a large droplet aerosol. The small droplet aerosol was four times more potent, and capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons mediating cough seem, therefore, to be present in human intrapulmonary airways.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical use of renal perfusion imaging by means of harmonic sonography with a microbubble contrast agent in patients after renal transplantation: preliminary study.	The purpose of this research was to determine the feasibility of renal perfusion imaging by means of harmonic sonography with a microbubble contrast agent for the evaluation of renal perfusion after renal transplantation compared with technetium Tc 99m diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) scans.
Pulmonary and oxygen transport effects of intravenously administered endotoxin in normal humans.	Little data are available describing the initial changes in pulmonary function and oxygen transport during human endotoxemia. We studied 26 normal humans after intravenously administered endotoxin (4 ng/kg). To evaluate alterations in gas exchange, hemodynamic monitoring was performed in nine subjects given endotoxin and six subjects given saline only. Compared with the control subjects, no changes in gas exchange occurred at 3 h, but after volume loading (mean, 2.2 L saline infused from 3 to 5 h) the PaO2 fell (86.1 +/- 2.3 mm Hg, p = 0.042), and the AaPO2 widened (18.5 +/- 1.7 mm Hg, p = 0.005). Oxygen consumption and delivery both increased significantly at 3 h (219 +/- 17 and 1,030 +/- 43 ml/min.min2) and 5 h (203 +/- 7 and 949 +/- 48 ml/min.min2) (p less than or equal to 0.035), whereas oxygen extraction fell at 3 h (p = 0.041). Seventeen subjects underwent bronchoalveolar lavage 14 +/- 4 days before and at 1.5 to 3 h (n = 8) or 5 h after (n = 9) the administration of endotoxin. No increase in the total number of cells or percent or absolute number of neutrophils was found at either time point. The rate of clearance of inhaled 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentacetate aerosol, a measure of alveolar epithelial permeability, increased in subjects scanned before 3 h (n = 8; p less than 0.05), whereas no significant changes occurred in subjects scanned 5 h after endotoxin (n = 5) or in control subjects (n = 6). Early inflammatory responses after intravenous administration of endotoxin to normal humans results in alterations in gas exchange and lung permeability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Unilateral renal artery stenosis. Color-coded Doppler sonography and captopril scintigraphy in a 13-year-old patient]	Modern noninvasive techniques, such as doppler sonography or color-encoded doppler sonography, have only rarely been used for diagnosis of renovascular hypertension in children. In the following case report, we describe the successful diagnosis of renovascular hypertension in a 13-year-old girl by using color-encoded doppler sonography and Captopril renal scintigraphy. The patient was admitted with hypertension of 180/130 mmHg. Laboratory findings showed elevated plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations. No abnormalities were found by abdominal sonography, isotope renography, intravenous pyelography, or in venous digital subtraction angiography. However, subsequent color-encoded doppler sonography clearly showed evidence of an artery stenosis of the right kidney. Furthermore, isotope renography one hour after oral administration of captopril revealed an almost complete loss of glomerular filtration rate of the right kidney. Based on these findings, arterial digital subtraction angiography, including transluminal angioplasty, was performed. During this treatment procedure, the right renal artery stenosis could be confirmed and was subsequently dilated without complication. In the following twelve months the patient remained normotensive and required no further antihypertensive drug treatment.
Assessment of ventricular function with first-pass radionuclide angiography using technetium 99m hexakis-2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile: a European multicentre study.	In the context of a multicentre study on the use of technetium 99m hexakis-2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-Sestamibi), we evaluated the accuracy of the ventricular function assessed at rest by means of first-pass radionuclide angiocardiography acquired during the injection of the tracer for myocardial perfusion scintigraphy. The results were compared with first-pass studies performed using reference tracers sodium pertechnetate Tc 99m or technetium 99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid or with gated radionuclide angiocardiography. A total of 66 patients of the 105 enrolled in the study could be evaluated. The comparison of the first-pass studies was possible in 33 subjects with regard to the left ventricular ejection fraction, yielding r = 0.909 (P less than 10(-6)), and in 22 cases with regard to the right ventricular ejection fraction, yielding r = 0.712 (P less than 0.001). The comparison between the first-pass study using 99mTc-Sestamibi and the equilibrium gated radionuclide angiocardiography was possible for the left ventricular ejection fraction in 26 cases, with r = 0.937 (P less than 10(-6)), and for the right ventricular ejection fraction in 15 subjects, with r = 0.783 (P less than 0.001). In conclusion, the assessment of ventricular function performed by acquiring a first-pass radionuclide angiocardiograph during the injection of 99mTc-Sestamibi for perfusion myocardial scintigraphy can be considered reliable and accurate, when compared with the usually employed techniques. This result confirms the feasibility of a combined evaluation of perfusion and function at rest and during stress testing, which represents one of the most interesting advantages offered by the use of 99mTc-Sestamibi.
The use of a radiolabelled saccharin solution to monitor the effect of the preservatives thiomersal, benzalkonium chloride and EDTA on human nasal clearance.	The effect of thiomersal, benzalkonium chloride and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) on the nasal mucociliary clearance of healthy volunteers has been investigated using a modified saccharin test and gamma scintigraphy concomitantly. A significant correlation was found between the two techniques. Using each subject as his/her own control, none of the preservatives significantly altered the rate of clearance or proportion cleared from the nasal cavity after the administration of a single dose. This result is at variance with some in-vitro findings.
In vivo imaging of apoptosis in patients with acute stroke: correlation with blood-brain barrier permeability.	We wished to determine the ability of radiolabeled annexin V to concentrate at sites of ischemic injury in patients with acute cerebral stroke. Secondly, we sought to correlate annexin V imaging in these patients with the degree of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown.
Pulmonary clearance of aerosolized 99mTc-DTPA in sarcoidosis I patients.	Sarcoidosis frequently affects the lungs of patients. Pulmonary clearance scintigraphy with Technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) aerosol may assess pulmonary involvement of sarcoidosis patients. The study investigated early pulmonary involvement of sarcoidosis I patients by assessing the pulmonary clearance of inhaled (99m)Tc-DTPA aerosol and the character of pulmonary clearance though systemic steroid therapy.
Increased lung clearance of 99mTcDTPA in allograft lung rejection. The Paris-Sud Lung Transplant Group.	To investigate whether lung 99mTc-DTPA clearance is altered during allograft lung rejection, a group of four double lung and 24 heart-lung transplant patients was studied using serial measurement of the clearance rate of aerosolized 99mTc-DTPA (DTPA-Cl), in association with pulmonary function tests, bronchoalveolar lavage, and transbronchial lung biopsies. Using histologic diagnosis as a standard, we compared 56 episodes with normal lung histology to 32 episodes with allograft lung rejection. A control group of 20 healthy nonsmokers was used to define normal DTPA-Cl. In patients with normal lung histology, DTPA-Cl was higher than in control subjects (2.62 +/- 0.25 versus 1.20 +/- 0.12 %/min; p less than 0.001). In the episodes of allograft lung rejection, DTPA-Cl increased to 3.65 +/- 0.41 %/min (p less than 0.02) as compared with episodes of normal lung histology. The change in DTPA-Cl during allograft lung rejection was correlated (r = 0.3, p less than 0.01) with the increased percentage of lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage (27.8 +/- 3.5% in rejection versus 19.9 +/- 2.2% in normal histology; p less than 0.02). Sensitivity and specificity of DTPA-Cl measurement in detecting lung rejection were 69 and 82%, respectively, versus 45 and 85% for FEV1 measurement. These results suggest that DTPA-Cl monitoring could be used in conjunction with pulmonary function testing as a noninvasive approach for the detection of lung rejection.
Radionuclide assessment of blood-brain barrier disruption performed for chemotherapy of high grade malignant brain gliomas.	Compared to the conventional mode of chemotherapy of malignant brain gliomas following surgery and radiation therapy, chemotherapy after transient disruption of the blood-brain barrier coupled with intraarterial administration of methotrexate improved median survival from 12-14 to 22 months in our experience. Technetium-99m-DTPA brain scintigraphy played a unique and important role in the documentation of optimum blood-brain barrier disruption. Patients with excellent clinical outcome had significantly (P less than 0.0005) better blood-brain barrier disruption than patients with poor outcome. The results indicate that the clinical outcome is related to the degree of blood-brain barrier disruption.
Renal function after partial nephrectomy with the Nd-YAG laser. Experimental study in piglets.	Twelve partial nephrectomies were performed in 12 piglets using either the combination (contact and non-contact) Nd:YAG laser technique or a steel scalpel. Additional haemostasis was attempted with ligatures. The renal artery was not clamped and renal cooling was not attempted. Total nephrectomy was performed on the contralateral side. Serum creatinine and urea levels were measured, and 99mTc-DTPA renography was performed pre-operatively and 1 and 2 weeks post-operatively. One week post-operatively the mean serum creatinine level was 35% higher than the pre-operative level in the laser group and 30% higher in the steel scalpel group. Two weeks post-operatively the respective differences were 34 and 24%. The mean urea level 1 week after operation was 50% higher than the pre-operative level in the laser group and 17% higher in the steel scalpel group. Two weeks post-operatively the respective differences were 38% in the laser group and 20% in the steel scalpel group. The mean DTPA disappearance rate was 34% lower 1 week after operation in the laser group and 23% lower in the steel scalpel group when compared with the preoperative state. Two weeks post-operatively the respective changes were 48 and 25%. These data indicate that there is no significant difference in renal function when the Nd: YAG combination laser technique is used in partial nephrectomy as compared with the steel scapel.
The simultaneous measurement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) following renal transplantation by use of functional imaging.	A new method for evaluating renal function using dynamic scintigraphy and deconvolution is described; functional images can be created from the data to quantitate kidney function. Our data are indicating that GFR measurements obtained by this method do not differ from those obtained by classical renal clearance methods. As was expected measurements of renal plasma flow exceed the values of PAH clearance. Additional studies to determine extraction ratios must be done along with direct flow meter measurements.
Clinical follow-up of children with low differential function on diuretic renogram.	One of the most challenging dilemmas in pediatric urology today is to determine the optimal management of children with hydronephrotic kidney secondary to suspected ureteropelvic junction obstruction. Some believe in early surgical management while others believe in conservative management. To better define these issues, the authors retrospectively reviewed 101 patients with hydronephrosis.
Diagnostic value of lung clearance of 99mTc DTPA compared with other non-invasive investigations in Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in AIDS.	Various non-invasive investigations were carried out in patients infected with HIV who had respiratory symptoms with and without pneumocystis pneumonia (with pneumonia, n = 13 (five smokers); without pneumonia, n = 22 (13 smokers]. These included chest radiography; lung function tests (forced expiratory volume in one second, forced vital capacity; transfer factor and coefficient for carbon monoxide); arterial blood gas tensions; arterial oxygen saturation at rest and on exercise; and lung clearance of diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid labelled with technetium-99m (99mTc DTPA). The effect of scan time (seven v 45 minutes from peak counts) and subtraction of background counts were examined. There were no significant differences between the two groups in lung function tests or arterial blood gas tensions at rest. The median clearance half time of inhaled 99mTc DTPA for the first seven minutes from peak counts was 7.2 minutes for patients with pneumocystis pneumonia and 22 minutes for those without. The median arterial oxygen desaturation on exercise was 5% in patients with pneumocystis pneumonia and 2% in those without. 99mTc DTPA lung clearance was better than the other non-invasive tests in discriminating pneumocystis pneumonia from other pulmonary disorders in patients positive for HIV. A short scan time of seven minutes was as sensitive and specific as the longer scan time of 45 minutes, and this allows the clearance of 99mTc DTPA to become a rapid screening test.
A comparison of the precorneal residence of an artificial tear preparation in patients with keratoconjunctivitis sicca and normal volunteer subjects using gamma scintigraphy.	The precorneal residence of an artificial tear preparation has been compared in twelve patients with keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) and twelve normal healthy volunteers. The artificial tear solution was radiolabelled by the inclusion of 1 MBq technetium-99m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (99Tcm-DTPA), and 25 microliters was instilled into one eye only. Deposition of the preparation was followed by gamma scintigraphy. Precorneal clearance of the solution was found to follow bi-exponential kinetics in all subjects with no significant differences in clearance rates between the two study populations. There was also no significant difference in the area under the time-activity profile for the two study groups. This suggests that the reduced reflex tearing and basal lacrimation in KCS patients, indicated by the Schirmer's test, are not important in the clearance of isotonic solutions from the eye surface.
Estimation of lung oedema in humans by transmission-emission scintigraphy with 99Tcm.	We have used a combination of transmission and emission gamma camera techniques to scan the thorax in the anteroposterior plane in 21 patients with partially treated cardiogenic pulmonary oedema and have compared their results with those from 20 age-matched normal subjects who were scanned previously. For transmission scanning, an external 99Tcm flood source was used; for emission scanning we labelled sequentially the vascular compartment with 99Tcm autologous erythrocytes and the interstitium with 99Tcm diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (99Tcm-DTPA). From the transmission scans we derived the transthoracic tissue thickness (Tt) and from the emission scans, after correction for attenuation, the regional blood and interstitial volumes. In the lower zone of the right lung, mean (S.D.) Tt in normal subjects was 10.9 (S.D. 3.1) cm and in subjects with lung oedema was 12.5 (S.D. 3.1) cm (P = 0.07). There was a weak correlation between Tt and a radiographic numerical score of oedema severity (r = 0.47, P less than 0.05). In eight subjects with lung oedema, lung tissue thickness (T1) was estimated (by subtraction from Tt of radiographically estimated chest wall thickness). The T1 correlated closely with the radiographic score (r = 0.78, P less than 0.01). There was no significant change in blood or interstitial volumes in oedema.
Differential renal function estimation by dynamic renal scintigraphy: influence of background definition and radiopharmaceutical.	Differential renal function (DRF) calculation with 99mTc-diethylenetriamine-pentaacetic acid (DTPA) or mercaptoacetyltriglycine (MAG3) is gaining clinical importance in the evaluation of patients with ureteropelvic junction obstruction with hydronephrosis (HN). Although many decisions regarding surgery are based on the functional changes detected by serial diuretic renography, the reliability of DRF estimation has been questioned. Factors such as the correction of nonrenal activity included in the renal region of interest (background subtraction) and immature function resulting in poor renal extraction may cause unusual elevation in the differential function. The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of the radiopharmaceutical and positioning of the background on the DRF.
Probable range for whole kidney mean transit time values determined by reexamination of UK audit studies.	Inconsistency in the intercentre measurement of whole kidney mean transit time (MTT) has been reported in a previously published UK audit. The main objectives of this study were to identify a probable value of MTT for each kidney in the UK audit data and to find likely reasons for the reported variations.
Usefulness of TC-99M GSA liver scintigraphy for the evaluation of liver regeneration in donors after living-donor liver transplantation.	We evaluated the impact of steatosis on regeneration and function of the remnant liver by using technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-galactosyl human serum albumin scintigraphy.
Usefulness of TC-99M GSA liver scintigraphy for the assessment of recurrent hepatitis C after living-donor liver transplantation: a case report.	Recurrence of hepatitis C after living-donor liver transplantation was investigated using technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-galactosyl human serum albumin (Tc-99m-GSA) liver scintigraphy.
Radionuclide cisternography: SPECT- and 3D-technique]	Radionuclide cisternography is indicated in the clinical work-up for hydrocephalus, when searching for CSF leaks, and when testing whether or not intracranial cystic lesions are communicating with the adjacent subarachnoid space. This paper demonstrates the feasibility and diagnostic value of SPECT and subsequent 3D surface rendering in addition to conventional rectilinear CSF imaging in eight patients. Planar images allowed the evaluation of CSF circulation and the detection of CSF fistula. They were advantageous in examinations 48 h after application of 111In-DTPA. SPECT scans, generated 4-24 h after tracer application, were superior in the delineation of basal cisterns, especially in early scans; this was helpful in patients with pooling due to CSF fistula and in cystic lesions near the skull base. A major drawback was the limited image quality of delayed scans, when the SPECT data were degraded by a low count rate. 3D surface rendering was easily feasible from SPECT data and yielded high quality images. The presentation of the spatial distribution of nuclide-contaminated CSF proved especially helpful in the area of the basal cisterns.
Fibrinogen depletion and control of permeability in oleic acid lung injury.	To determine if the biphasic pulmonary clearance of aerosolized 99mTc diethylene penta acetate (99mTc-DTPA) observed in oleic acid lung injury represents acute epithelial damage followed by sealing as a result of intra-alveolar fibrin deposition, we examined the effect of fibrinogen depletion. 99mTc-DTPA clearance was assessed in three groups of rabbits: Group 1, normal fibrinogen + oleic acid injury; Group 2, fibrinogen-depleted + oleic acid injury; Group 3, fibrinogen-depleted with no oleic acid injury. In Group 3 animals with no lung injury, the 99mTc-DTPA clearance rate, expressed as k, the percent decrease in thoracic radioactivity, was similar to that previously reported for healthy rabbits (k = 1.16 +/- 0.57%/min, mean +/- SD). Oleic acid administration to Groups 1 and 2 resulted in significantly faster clearance rates, with identical biphasic curves in all animals, irrespective of fibrinogen status. There were no significant differences between either the initial fast phase (k, Group 1 = 5.26 +/- 1.83%/min, Group 2 = 5.70 +/- 1.77%/min) or the subsequent slow phase (k, Group 1 = 1.67 +/- 0.63%/min, Group 2 = 1.57 +/- 0.55%/min, p greater than 0.05). On histologic examination, Groups 1 and 2 showed greater cellular interstitial infiltrate, alveolar edema, and hemorrhage than did Group 3. Fibrinogen depletion plus oleic acid injury resulted in greater alveolar cellular exudate, edema, and hemorrhage than did either oleic acid or fibrinogen depletion alone. We conclude that fibrinogen is not necessary to produce biphasic 99mTc-DTPA clearance in oleic acid lung injury.
Development of macromolecular Sn(II) complex for preparation of 99Tcm radiopharmaceuticals.	Macromolecular Sn(II) complex (R-Sn) was developed using a chelating resin containing aminophosphonic acid groups as a reducing agent of 99Tcm(VII) in the preparation of 99Tcm radiopharmaceuticals. Since Sn(II) was bonded strongly to the resin by chelation, release of Sn from R-Sn was rarely observed in saline solution. 99Tcm labelling with a yield greater than 90% was performed by mixing R-Sn, 99Tcm pertechnetate solution and a ligand, such as human serum albumin and diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid, for a short time. The 99Tcm radiopharmaceuticals were almost free from Sn(II) and the reducing activity of R-Sn was quite stable despite long-term storage without any special care.
Sequential renography in acute urinary tract obstruction due to stone disease.	A group of 76 patients with urographically proven acute calculus obstruction was studied prospectively using 99mTc-DTPA renography to see if kidneys at risk of irreversible renal damage could be identified. There was a statistically significant relationship between the presence of obstruction on renography and the subsequent requirement for intervention, but not with the degree of obstruction (partial or severe). Stones over 5 mm in size are highly likely to cause obstruction, a drop in relative renal function and require intervention. In all, 14 patients sustained a drop in relative renal function of greater than 7% on renography and 12 of these returned to normal limits when their calculi had been passed or removed. The 2 kidneys whose function remained impaired had fallen below 25% of overall renal function and both patients had received prior treatment for their calculi. No patient who presented de novo suffered any permanent loss of ipsilateral renal function. The results confirm that the criteria for intervention were well founded and emphasise the importance of achieving a stone-free state after primary treatment. Renography is recommended for stones over 5 mm in size, those in the middle and upper ureter and for those patients discharged with a stone in situ.
In vivo glomerular filtration rate measurement based solely on image processing.	A simple and reliable technique was developed to measure split renal glomerular filtration (GFR) based solely on image processing of the standard 20-minute Tc-99m DTPA renogram. It requires neither syringe counting nor blood or urine sampling. Using three sequential blood samples in 36 patients, GFR values correlated well (r = 0.92) with in vitro GFR measurements.
Detection of tricuspid regurgitation by Tc-99m DTPA renal scintigraphy.	Tc-99m DTPA renal scintigraphy is an established technique for evaluating renal perfusion and function. A patient is described with clinically unsuspected tricuspid regurgitation detected during the perfusion phase of renal scintigraphy and confirmed by Doppler echocardiography. A review of extrarenal anomalies detected during renal blood flow imaging is presented.
PEEP and "reverse mismatch". A case where less PEEP is best.	A V/Q lung scan was obtained in a patient with LLL collapse who was receiving IPPV and PEEP. This revealed absent ventilation and hyperperfusion to the collapsed lobe. After a reduction in PEEP from 12 to 5 cm H2O, a repeat V/Q scan showed a more even distribution of pulmonary perfusion. Arterial hypoxemia improved.
Silent obstruction after extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy.	Extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy (EPL) is frequently used to treat renal calculi. We are presenting a case that developed silent ureteric obstruction following three sessions of EPL of 4,000 shocks each. The obstruction was silent and asymptomatic, and was detected 6 weeks later on a routine follow-up renogram. The obstruction was due to an impacted stone fragment in the lower ureter. After release of the obstruction, the kidney function did not return to pre-therapy levels due to irreversible damage. This case demonstrates the importance of doing renograms before and within a few days after shock therapy for renal stones.
Bone marrow transplantation: effects of conditioning and cyclosporin prophylaxis on microvascular permeability to a small solute (technetium 99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid).	Microvascular permeability to small diffusible solutes has rarely been measured at a clinical level. We have developed a simple non-invasive technique for measuring the permeability surface area (PS) product, which is suitable for clinical use. We illustrate its potential value in six subjects who underwent bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukaemia. These patients received high-dose cyclosporin A (CyA) for prevention of graft versus host disease (GVHD) and sustained an easily measurable increase in microvascular permeability to technetium 99m diethyltriamine penta-acetic acid (99mTc-DTPA). This was measured as the PS product, which increased from 1.1 (SD 0.3) to 2.2 (0.4) ml/min per 100 ml tissue between baseline and treatment with CyA for prevention of GVHD (P less than 0.01). The increase broadly correlated with nephrotoxicity which was measured, from the plasma DTPA clearance, as global glomerular filtration rate (GFR). This decreased from 106 (11.1) to 49 (6.7) ml/min (P less than 0.001). These abnormalities, both in PS product and GFR, were sustained for several months, after which they tended to return towards baseline levels. We conclude firstly that this technique has a potential clinical role and secondly that endothelial abnormalities due to CyA deserve further study.
Extravascular chest wall technetium 99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid: implications for the measurement of renal function during renography.	Measurement of individual kidney glomerular filtration rate (IKGFR) from the gamma-camera technetium 99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) renogram requires a continuous measurement of arterial activity. This is usually based on a region of interest (ROI) placed over the cardiac blood pool on the posterior view, with the assumption of negligible contamination from activity in the extravascular space of the chest wall. By injecting a small dose of technetium 99m human serum albumin (HSA) before the 99mTc-DTPA in 12 patients undergoing routine renography, the contribution of extravascular activity to the total signal recorded over the cardiac blood pool was calculated to be 11.0% (SE 2.1%) 1.5 min after DTPA injection, rising to 35.1% (SE 2.5%) at 15 min. Subtraction of the time-activity curve recorded from a ROI of the same size over the right lung generated a "pure" blood signal as shown by almost identical HSA/DTPA signal ratios recorded in blood samples taken 5 min after HSA and 15 min after DTPA and from the gamma-camera at the corresponding times. The effect of using a cardiac blood pool time-activity curve uncorrected for extravascular activity was to overestimate IKGFR by an average factor of 1.17 (SE 0.03).
The effects of inhaled house dust mite on airway barrier function and sensitivity to inhaled methacholine in mice.	Asthma is functionally characterized by increased airway sensitivity and reactivity. Multiple mechanisms are believed to underlie these functional disorders, including impairment of airway wall barrier function. One proposed mechanism of impaired barrier function is through the direct consequence of proteolytic properties of inhaled allergens, including house dust mite (HDM). Here, we have observed the direct effects of HDM on airway barrier function and response to nebulized or intravenous methacholine. HDM nave BALB/c mice were anesthetized, exposed to intranasal or intratracheal HDM (15 or 100 g), and allowed to recover for 30 min or 2 h before methacholine challenge. A separate group of mice was exposed to intratracheal poly-L-lysine (PLL; 100 g) for a duration of 30 min. This group served as a positive control for the presence of impaired barrier function and airway hypersensitivity. Negative control mice received saline challenges. Outcomes included assessment of lung mechanics in response to nebulized or intravenous methacholine as well as clearance of intratracheally instilled technetium-labeled ((99m)Tc) DTPA to evaluate airway epithelial barrier function. We found that PLL produced a leftward shift in the dose-response curve following nebulized but not intravenous methacholine challenge. This was associated with a significantly faster clearance of (99m)Tc-DTPA, indicating impairment in airway barrier function. However, HDM exposure did not produce changes in these outcomes when compared with saline-exposed mice. These findings suggest that direct impact on airway barrier function does not appear to be a mechanism by which HDM produces altered airway sensitivity in airway disease.
Sphincter of Oddi manometry by choledochoscope in patients with duodenobiliary reflux.	 Previous research has confirmed that duodenobiliary reflux exists in patients with choledocholithiasis. The objective of this study was to investigate whether the motor activity of the sphincter of Oddi (SO) has an effect on duodenobiliary reflux.
Predictive performance of eGFR equations in South Africans of African and Indian ancestry compared with mTc-DTPA imaging.	South African guidelines for early detection and management of chronic kidney disease (CKD) recommend using the Cockcroft-Gault (CG) or Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equations for calculating estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) with the correction factor, 1.212, included for MDRD-eGFR in black patients. We compared eGFR against technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) imaging.
New normal values not related to age and sex, of glomerular filtration rate by (99m)Tc-DTPA renal  dynamic imaging, for the evaluation of living kidney graft donors.	The aim of this study was to investigate the normal values of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) by technetium-99m diaethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) renal dynamic imaging for living kidney graft donors. In a total of 212 candidate donors, GFR was examined using (99m)Tc-DTPA renal dynamic imaging. Donors with GFR80mL/(min1.73m(2)) and as low as with GFR70mL/(min1.73m(2)) but a normal endogenous creatinine clearance rate (CCr) were quantified for living kidney donation. Differences in GFR levels based on sex and age were analyzed using rank correlation coefficient. Out of the 212 candidates, 161 were finally selected as kidney graft donors. The double kidney total GFR between the male and female donor groups, the GFR levels among differently-aged donor groups, and the GFR levels between the elderly (>55 years) and young- and middle-aged (55 years) donor groups did not show any significant difference (P>0.05). After kidney donation, renal function measured by blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine of all donors returned to normal within one week, and no serious complications were noticed. In conclusion, renal dynamic imaging by (99m)Tc-DTPA had a good accuracy and repeatability in GFR evaluation for living kidney donors. Candidate donors with GFR between 70mL/(min1.73m(2)) and 80mL/(min1.73m(2)) can be selected as kidney donors after strict screening. In living kidney donors GFR is not significantly correlated with age or sex.
CDK-EPI equation may be the most proper formula based on creatinine in determining glomerular filtration rate in Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease.	To compare the performance of the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CDK-EPI) equation, the 24-h creatinine clearance rate (24hCCr), Cockroft-Gault (C-G) formula, the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (aMDRD) equation, the modified Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (mMDRD) equation in determining glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and detect the most proper method to measure GFR in clinical practice.
Is cystatin C valuable marker of glomerular filtration rate in living kidney donors after uninephrectomy?	The determination of kidney function plays a pivotal role in living donors renal assessment because of the long-term hazards of life with one kidney. Guidelines recommend estimation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) by the Modification of Renal Disease (MDRD) or Cockroft-Gault equations for people with normal or near-normal renal function. Cystatin C (CysC) has been introduced as an alternative endogenous marker of GFR.
Validation of modified estimated glomerular filtration rate in chronic kidney disease patients.	To derive the ethnic factor and validate the modified estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) by Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equation for Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) patients of Rawalpindi.
Comparison of slope-intercept with single plasma sample methods in estimating glomerular filtration rate using radionuclides.	To evaluate the accuracy of different single plasma sample methods (SPSM) 99m Tc-DTPA clearances and to test whether the SPSM can replace the dual plasma samples method (DPSM) in the measurement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR), we studied 430 subjects counting renal patients and donors (240 male, 190 female; mean age 43.40  16.30 years). All the subjects underwent dynamic renal scintigraphy after injection of 99m Tc-DTPA; the GFR was calculated by seven SPSMs in addition to DPSM as a reference. Each of the SPSM clearance was compared with the DPSM measurement. There was a high correlation of all the SPSMs and the DPSM. The limits of agreement (95%) were found between the DPSM and all the SPSMs. Overall, the best method among the SPSMs, which is closest to the DPSM, is Fleming's single method as it has a statistically significant low mean difference (bias), low standard error, close mean  SD to the reference method, good limits of agreement and high correlation co-efficient. This study concludes that, among the SPSMs, Fleming can reflect GFR more accurately than other methods, particularly when the expected serum creatinine is normal. 
Opening of the blood-brain barrier by intravenous contrast media in euvolemic and dehydrated rabbits.	It has been suggested that intravenous injections of hypertonic contrast media when used in computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography might raise plasma osmolality sufficiently to open the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The current investigation establishes the threshold of plasma osmolality that causes the the opening of the BBB in euvolemic and dehydrated rabbits. Euvolemic rabbits were allowed food and water ad libitum. Dehydrated rabbits received 4.0 mg/kg of furosemide intramuscularly and were deprived of water for 72 hours. Meglumine/sodium diatrizoate 76 per cent (n = 28) or mannitol 20 per cent (n = 12) was administrated intravenously, at a rate of 25 mmol/kg body weight/hour for 2, 3 or 4 hours. Plasma osmolality, blood iodine concentration, blood pressure, heart rate and hematocrit were assessed at regular intervals. Evans blue and 99Tcm-DTPA were used simultaneously as tracers for BBB opening. Rating of BBB opening with 99Tcm-DTPA correlated well with Evans blue staining (r = 0.863, p less than 0.001; n = 42). BBB opening was related to plasma osmolality and was similar for both contrast media and mannitol. Widespread BBB opening occurred above 400 mmol/kg while focal BBB opening occurred above 370 mmol/kg. Dehydration per se increased plasma osmolality but did not reduce the threshold for BBB opening.
Comparison of scintigraphic diagnostic criteria in suspected pulmonary embolism.	Various criteria have been proposed for the interpretation of ventilation and perfusion (V/Q) scintigrams in diagnosing pulmonary thromboembolism. The Biello criteria, with modifications, have been a standard for years but they differ from the criteria currently being used in the Prospective Investigation of Pulmonary Embolism Diagnosis (PIOPED) trial. We carried out a retrospective study in an attempt to establish if one or the other set of criteria is better. Between February 1985 and September 1987, 38 patients had a V/Q scan for suspected pulmonary embolism and subsequently underwent pulmonary angiography. The V/Q scans were reviewed by two observers using the modified Biello and the PIOPED criteria. Receiver-operated characteristic curves were constructed separately for each set of criteria. Statistical analysis revealed that neither set of criteria was significantly better than the other, but the PIOPED criteria were felt to be better defined and easier to use. This may have implications for the practical application of the criteria.
Blood pool scintigraphy.	Scintigraphic techniques offer a variety of computer aided analytic methods for the assessment of ventricular size and function. They are objective, quantitative, and reproducible, and contribute to the clinical evaluation of all forms of cardiac disease. In some cases complementary to other methods, the scintigraphic assessment of ventricular function is often unique in the valuable clinical data which they supply.
Oxyntomodulin from distal gut. Role in regulation of gastric and pancreatic functions.	We studied the effects of intravenous infusion of synthetic oxyntomodulin (proglucagon 33-69), a potential hormone from the ileal mucosa, on fasting and postprandial gastric acid secretion, gastric emptying, gastroduodenal motility, and pancreatic secretion of trypsin and lipase measured simultaneously in six normal volunteers using multilumen tubes for infusion of markers, manometry, and aspiration of gastric and duodenal contents. The infusion resulted in plasma concentrations of 203 +/- 21 pmol/liter (mean +/- SEM) of oxyntomodulin, regarded as high but not unphysiological concentrations of the peptide. Oxyntomodulin almost abolished basal acid secretion and inhibited postprandial acid secretion by 35 +/- 10%. Gastric emptying decreased significantly; the time for 50% to leave the stomach increased from 17.3 +/- 2.2 min to 34.7 +/- 8.0 min. The postprandial gastroduodenal motility was massively inhibited by oxyntomodulin. Postprandial trypsin and lipase output was significantly inhibited by 56 +/- 12% and 42 +/- 11%, respectively, during oxyntomodulin infusion. However, pancreatic enzyme output was linearly related to gastric emptying and oxyntomodulin did not influence this relationship, suggesting that oxyntomodulins effect was due to its effect on gastric emptying. Oxyntomodulin seems to play an important role in the small intestinal inhibitory control of gastropancreatic functions.
Pulmonary permeability in coeliac disease and inflammatory bowel disease.	Respiratory disease and subclinical pulmonary abnormalities are recognised complications of both coeliac disease (CD) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) but the pathogenesis of the lung disease remains uncertain. We have studied lung function, including permeability measured by clearance of inhaled technetium-99m diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid in 25 patients with IBD, 18 patients with CD on a gluten-free diet, and in 20 normal controls, all without respiratory symptoms. In IBD there was evidence of obstruction to airflow (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 s/forced vital capacity equals 75.8%, control 81%; p less than 0.05) but no change in pulmonary permeability (half-time clearance equals 70.3 vs. 69.2 min). In CD airflow was not significantly different from control (forced expiratory volume in 1 s/forced vital capacity equals 80%) but there was an increase in pulmonary permeability (half-time clearance equals 48.9 min; p less than 0.01). These findings suggest that the mechanisms of lung disease in CD differs from that in IBD and supports the hypothesis of a common mucosal defect in lung and small intestine in CD allowing increased permeability.
Gastroesophageal reflux after esophageal surgery--evaluations based on esophageal transit scintigram]	By means of esophageal transit scintigram using 99mTc-DTPA, 15 patients (13 esophageal carcinomas and 2 cardia carcinomas) were studied, in whom esophagogastric anastomosis was done according to the posterior invagination anastomosis technique we had devised. In all 8 patients with anastomosis at cervical region, gastroesophageal reflux was not seen on both scintigrams before and after meals, and the average pressure gradient of high pressure zone at anastomosis was 39.8 cmH2O. In 2 of 7 patients with intrathoracic anastomosis, the scintigram before meals showed severe reflex, and the endoscopic findings showed diffuse and moderate erosion in the esophageal mucosa. The average pressure gradient across the anastomosis was 6.5 cmH2O. In these 2 patients, the new fornix with a sharp angle of His was not formed. In the remaining 5 patients with intrathoracic anastomosis, reflux was not seen on the scintigram before meals. However, in 2 of them, the scintigram after meal and endoscopic examination revealed mild reflux and mild esophagitis respectively. Furthermore in one patient very mild reflux was observed only on the scintigram after meals but the endoscopic findings showed the normal esophageal mucosa. In these 5 patients, the average pressure gradient across the anastomosis was 17.0 cmH2O, which was significantly higher (p less than 0.01) than that in 2 patients with severe reflux and was significantly lower (p less than 0.01) than the mean value of high pressure zone in 8 patients with cervical anastomosis. In conclusion, it is presumed that the formation of a large fornix enough to store food and a sharp angle of His are important factors in maintaining an anti-reflux mechanism. The esophageal transit scintigram was proved to be an excellent technique in detecting and evaluating quantitatively gastroesophageal reflux.
Hyperfiltration and renal disease in glycogen storage disease, type I.	A prospective study of 14 patients (ages 6 months to 33 years) with glycogen storage disease, Type I (GSD-I) was carried out in order to define the character and frequency of renal dysfunction. A marked increase in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was documented in virtually all subjects, with the mean GFR raised by approximately 50%, to the range of 170 ml/min/1.73 m2. While this constituted the only renal abnormality found in the younger patients, a significant increase in urinary albumin excretion was seen in three teen-aged individuals; three patients over 20 years of age exhibited frank proteinuria (2 to 8 g/day). Renal biopsy on two of the proteinuric subjects revealed focal and global glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis. Evaluation of factors known to cause an increase in GFR did not define the precise etiology for its elevation in GSD-I. These studies suggest that: (1) glomerular damage and chronic renal disease are common in older patients with GSD-I; (2) the renal injury appears to be specifically related to GSD-I and is not secondary to the treatment of the disease; and (3) the natural history of the renal lesion in GSD-I may be analogous to that seen in insulin-dependent diabetes, with a "silent" period where hyperfiltration is the only demonstrable renal abnormality, followed by evidence of increasing glomerular damage progressing from microalbuminuria to frank proteinuria.
Normal reference values for regional pulmonary peripheral airspace epithelial permeability. Influence of pneumonectomy and the smoking habit.	Peripheral airspace epithelial permeability (PAEP) to diethylentriaminopentacetate (DTPA), an index of pulmonary integrity, was measured in 3 groups of subjects for different purposes: (1) to establish vertical regional reference values; (2) to determine the physiological role of acute doubling of total pulmonary blood flow; (3) to quantify the pulmonary epithelial damage in smokers and the possibility of lung protection by an agent stimulating surfactant production. This study broadens previous knowledge of PAEP. First of all, regional reference values are given for young normal nonsmoking subjects and the existence of a vertical gradient of PAEP is confirmed. Furthermore, this study shows that this gradient is independent of the vertical blood flow gradient, since an acute increase of total blood flow in pneumonectomized patients does not modify the regional distribution of PAEP. Finally, it is confirmed that the cigarette smoker's lung is more permeable than the controls and that probably a drug-stimulating surfactant production gives some protection against damage due to chronic smoking.
Serial quantitative 99mTc DTPA imaging in CMV-associated renal allograft dysfunction.	Two cases of cytomegalovirus associated renal allograft dysfunction were monitored by serial 99mTc DTPA imaging and cytomegalovirus specific fluorescent antibody tests. One case of primary cytomegalovirus disease associated with pneumonitis, hepatitis and pyrexia occurred 25 days after transplantation. The second case, due to cytomegalovirus reactivation/reinfection had fewer symptoms and occurred 78 days following transplantation. 99mTc DTPA perfusion index at the height of the cytomegalovirus associated illness remained unaltered in both cases, and did not suggest the presence of acute rejection. This non-reactive response was associated with a rapid return of graft function. The combined use of these rapid diagnostic tests during suspected rejection episodes may be useful in indicating cytomegalovirus associated allograft dysfunction and preventing the addition of further potentially harmful immunosuppressants.
The effect of radiopharmaceutical choice on the assessment of the relative renal function in upper urinary tract obstruction.	The relative function of the obstructed kidney (RFOK) was assessed in 43 adult patients with upper urinary tract obstruction (UUTO) using 99mTc-DTPA and 131I-ortho-iodohippurate (OIH) dynamic studies and 99mTc-DMSA dynamic and static studies. The patients were divided into five groups according to the duration and degree of obstruction. Findings were as follows: a) in patients with the first occurrence of acute severe obstruction (group 1), the relative glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was significantly less than the relative effective renal plasma flow (ERPF); b) in patients with chronic severe obstruction and long term uroinfection, the relative ERPF decreased significantly compared with the relative GFR; c) the RFOK calculated from the DMSA dynamic study was the same as both the relative GFR or ERPF in any group; d) the RFOK calculated from the DMSA static study seemed to parallel the relative ERPF more closely than the relative GFR, but in group one it was significantly higher than any of three other estimates. It is concluded that 99mTc-DTPA is the radiopharmaceutical of choice in obstructive uronephropathy, but when interpreting the RFOK, the time course and severity of obstruction, the presence or absence of uroinfection should also be considered.
Renography: prediction of blood pressure after dilatation of renal artery stenosis.	In 60 patients with hypertension and unilateral renal artery stenosis (URAS) radio-hippuran renograms were performed before and 6 weeks after anatomically adequate percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA). Two characteristics of the renographic curves have been analyzed: the difference in time to peak (DTP) between the affected and contralateral kidneys, which would be expected to be positive in blood flow impairment, and the relative hippuran uptake (RHU) in the second minute by the affected kidney as compared with the total uptake by both kidneys: this would be less than 50% in the case of stenosis. Before PTA, both variables were predominantly abnormal. The DTP did not predict the blood pressure response to PTA. The group of patients with a RHU between 25 and 45% comprised all cured patients and predicted a more favorable response of the blood pressure than a RHU of less than 25% and especially more than 45% which group contained 83% patients whose blood pressure failed to respond after PTA. After PTA the DTP did normalize in the majority of patients, but this was not related to the blood pressure response. The RHU increased in patients in whom it had been low initially, but frequently remained low (less than 45%). The increase of the RHU was significantly higher in patients with a favorable blood pressure response. Pretreatment with captopril did intensify the abnormal curves of hippuran and of DTPA renograms in 6 patients with URAS who did respond favorably to PTA. There was no such deterioration in 2 patients whose blood pressure did not change sufficiently after PTA or in 4 patients without renal artery stenosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Patient exposure when using 99Tcm-DTPA for evaluation of cerebrospinal fluid shunt patency.	The absorbed dose from 99Tcm-DTPA was estimated from 12 investigations in 9 patients who were evaluated for the patency of ventriculo-peritoneal shunts. The distribution of 99Tcm-DTPA in the ventricles, urinary bladder and peritoneal cavity was determined in regions of interest from repeated static gamma camera images. The effective dose equivalent was calculated to be less than 0.10 mSv for an injected activity of 15 MBq.
Evaluation of renal first pass blood flow with a functional image technique in hypertensive patients.	The renal circulation of patients with essential hypertension and renovascular hypertension was evaluated using 99mTc-DTPA. The first renal peak count (the first Cmax; FCmax), time phase distribution (the first Tmax; FTmax), and blood velocity (the FCmax/FTmax) were calculated by digital imaging. This yields a visual image of the renal circulation. We consider that the increase in the renal first pass blood flow in patients with essential hypertension is best observed pixel by pixel. The FCmax and FCmax/FTmax images before and after treatment by percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in patients with renovascular hypertension clearly show its therapeutic effect. The FI technique, therefore, has the advantage that it can be performed at the same time as the conventional routine examinations of renal function. This makes it very useful clinically.
Respiratory clearance of 99mTc-DTPA and pulmonary involvement in sarcoidosis.	To investigate the relationships between the respiratory epithelial clearance of micronic aerosolized 99mTc-DTPA (RC-DTPA) and pulmonary function, serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (SACE), and lymphocytic alveolitis in patients with sarcoidosis, RC-DTPA was measured in 49 nonsmokers with pulmonary sarcoidosis and 38 normal nonsmokers. Pulmonary involvement was evaluated on chest roentgenograms (type O = normal, type I = hilar adenopathies, type II = hilar adenopathies associated with parenchymal shadows, type III = parenchymal shadows without adenopathy) and by pulmonary function tests. Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme was determined, and a bronchoalveolar lavage was performed for alveolar lymphocyte differential counting (Ly%). RC-DTPA was increased (greater than or equal to 1.96%/min) in 12 of 31 patients with type II or III involvement but was normal in all 18 patients with type O or I involvement (p = 0.002). Patients with increased RC-DTPA had low FVC, TLC, FEV1, and resting Pao2 (p less than 0.05); resting and exercise AaPo2 were increased (p less than 0.05), but RC-DTPA correlated negatively with FEV1 (p less than 0.01), Pao2 at rest (p less than 0.005), and DLCO (p less than 0.05) and positively with resting and exercise AaPO2 (p less than 0.01). In patients with increased RC-DTPA (42 +/- 17%), Ly% did not differ from Ly% in patients with normal RC-DTPA (34 +/- 16%). SACE was increased in patients with increased RC-DTPA (56 +/- 26 U/ml versus 38 +/- 16 U/ml; p = 0.007) and correlated positively with RC-DTPA (p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dynamic (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) scintigraphy of normal and tumor-bearing rats.	Five normal rats, 14 rats bearing the Rous sarcoma intrarenally, and four rats with DMBA-induced mammary carcinomas were imaged by dynamic (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ((18F)FDG) scintigraphy and (99mTc)DTPA renography. The brain, heart, liver, kidneys, and tumor were selected as regions of interest (ROI) for time activity curves; exponential functions were fitted to the decay-corrected curves, which yielded biologic half-lives of (18F)FDG in the ROI. It was found that all organs ROI's exhibited average elimination of activity, whereas activity accumulated in the tumor ROI for the duration of the study (5 h). The (99mTc)DTPA renographies showed that the excretory function in kidneys bearing the Rous sarcoma is severely impaired. This study shows that small laboratory animals can be successfully scintigraphied with a conventional gamma camera using (18F)FDG and that the pharmacokinetics of this radiopharmaceutical may be evaluated.
Neonatal hydronephrosis in the era of sonography.	During a 6-year period (1979-1985), 142 neonates with significant hydronephrosis were seen. Seventy-eight percent of the cases were discovered on fetal screening during obstetric sonography. Maternal/fetal intervention was virtually never indicated and most babies were asymptomatic. The most common conditions found were obstruction of the ureteropelvic junction (41%), obstruction of the distal ureter (usually primary megaureter) (23%), upper-pole hydronephrosis associated with duplex anomalies (13%), and posterior urethral valves (10%). Seventeen neonates with multicystic dysplastic kidney were seen (three per year or one for every eight with hydronephrosis). In comparison, during the 30-year period, 1947-1977, 146 neonates with significant hydronephrosis were seen. Most cases were discovered because the patients had signs and/or symptoms--either an abdominal mass (an enlarged kidney or bladder) or urosepsis. The three most common conditions were obstruction of the ureteropelvic junction (22%), posterior urethral valves (19%), and ectopic ureterocele (14%). During this period, 53 neonates with multicystic dysplastic kidney were discovered (two per year or one for every three with hydronephrosis). The dramatic increase in the number of neonates found to have hydronephrosis is primarily due to the widespread use of obstetric sonography and concomitant fetal screening. The pattern of causes before 1979 represented the incidence of symptomatic lesions. The current pattern more accurately reflects the true incidence of congenital anomalies of the urinary tract.
The effect of terbutaline sulfate, nitroglycerin, and aminophylline on lower esophageal sphincter pressure and radionuclide esophageal emptying in patients with achalasia.	We studied the effects of three smooth muscle relaxants on lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure and radionuclide esophageal emptying in 15 untreated patients with achalasia. LES pressures were determined before and after the administration of normal saline subcutaneously, terbutaline sulfate subcutaneously, nitroglycerin sublingually, and aminophylline intravenously. All smooth muscle relaxants significantly decreased LES pressures when compared with normal saline controls and pretreatment baseline pressures (p less than 0.01). However, in normal saline controls, LES pressure actually increased over time (p less than 0.01). Control radionuclide esophageal emptying studies were performed in all patients. Subsequent esophageal emptying studies were carried out only in patients responding to smooth muscle relaxants by decreasing LES pressures by greater than or equal to 25% (terbutaline sulfate, n = 8; nitroglycerin, n = 7; and aminophylline, n = 4). Significant improvement in esophageal emptying was observed after nitroglycerin and terbutaline sulfate (p less than 0.05) but not after aminophylline. We conclude that in patients with achalasia (a) terbutaline sulfate, nitroglycerin, and aminophylline can significantly decrease LES pressure; (b) resting LES pressures vary over time; and (c) terbutaline sulfate and nitroglycerin significantly improve esophageal emptying in some subjects.
SPECT imaging of para-axial neurofibromatosis with technetium-99m DTPA.	Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used to study uptake of technetium-99m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ([99mTc]DTPA) by para-axial neurofibromas in 13 patients. SPECT imaging led to better resolution of uptake in nine instances and detection of 12 lesions unsuspected on planar imaging (PI). Two false-positive instances and one false-negative instance of uptake are described. The planning of the surgical approach and placement of graft material for spinal fusion was assisted by SPECT in two patients. One patient with disability secondary to recurring abdominal pain had detection of the causative lesion by SPECT and subsequent relief of her symptoms following excision of the tumor. SPECT imaging of soft-tissue tumors of neurofibromatosis appears to have potential use in preplanning surgery on structural or cosmetic lesions, in the detection of occult lesions, and the monitoring of patients with neurofibromatosis at regular intervals.
An unusual case of a false-positive iodine-131 whole body scan in a patient with papillary thyroid cancer.	A false-positive I-131 whole body scan (WBS) for lung uptake in a patient with papillary thyroid cancer, with replacement of his infiltrated esophagus with a left colon graft, is presented. The I-131 image, seen in the upper right lung field, was due to the contaminated colon graft lacking normal peristaltic movements, which was located in the right paramediastinal region. This finding was demonstrated by imaging the upper digestive tract with orally administered Tc-99m DTPA and by a barium x-ray.
Clearance of aerosolized 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentacetate before and after smoke inhalation.	The pulmonary clearance of aerosolized 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentacetate (DTPA) was studied in mongrel dogs immediately after exposure to wood smoke to see if a sensitive, objective way of assessing the degree of pulmonary injury might be found. Animals were studied in four groups as follows: control, following five minutes, two minutes, and 15 seconds of smoke exposure. Chest roentgenograms and 133Xe scans were taken before and after smoke exposure. The DTPA clearance was more sensitive in detecting injury than either of these imaging techniques. The DTPA clearance rates increased in a dose responsive way following smoke inhalation: 2.4 percent and 12.1 percent excreted per minute for control animals and those exposed to five minutes of smoke, respectively. Seven patients in a clinical trial of DTPA following smoke exposure are described; their DTPA clearance rates were all normal, although five were active cigarette smokers. Despite encouraging results in animal experiments, DTPA clearance studies may be of little practical value in the clinical setting of acute inhalation injury.
Effect of lumbar puncture on flow of cerebrospinal fluid.	The rate at which isotopes descend from the cisterna magna to the lumbar subarachnoid space is highly variable. In monkeys, with and without previous lumbar puncture, transit time was measured. In animals with a previous lumbar puncture, transit times were 10 to 120 minutes; in monkeys without a previous lumbar puncture, transit times were 120 to 180 minutes. In experimental studies of cerebrospinal fluid circulation, the effect of lumbar puncture must be controlled.
Detection of diaphragmatic disruptions by peritoneoscintigraphy using technetium-99M diethylene-triamine pentacetic acid.	Intraperitoneal injection of a selected radiopharmaceutical results in the diffusion of radioactive material throughout the peritoneum. A diaphragmatic injury should theoretically result in the diffusion of the radioactive material into the chest. To test this hypothesis, Technetium-99m diethylene-triamine pentacetic acid (Tc-99m DTPA) was administered intraperitoneally by either direct needle injection or catheter into 18 rabbits. Four of the rabbits served as controls and did not have any diaphragmatic injury. Fourteen rabbits had surgically induced diaphragmatic tears of varying size (1/4 to 1 cm) after thoracotomy. Four of the 14 rabbits were dropped from the study because they had inadequate peritoneal injections of the radiopharmaceutical. The remaining ten rabbits showed peritoneoscintigraphic evidence of diaphragmatic injury either by showing passage of the radiotracer into the chest, demonstrating the site of injury as a focal region of increased radiotracer uptake, or showing both of these features. Peritoneoscintigraphy appears to be a potentially useful modality in the detection of diaphragmatic injury.
Choice of method for determining the individual clearance of the kidneys]	Some criteria for assessment of the adequacy of various radionuclide methods of determination of the separate renal clearance were proposed. Some methods were analyzed according to these criteria: one of them was proposed by S. U. Schlegel et al. and used in the paper by M. E. Karaev and R. N. Samedov, and the other one was proposed by V. Kh. Frenkel' and V. B. Shushkovski. Both methods were shown to be insufficiently substantiated from physiological and mathematical view-points. A method of assessment of the separate renal clearance in the form of a circulation model was proposed. It was based on the minimal possible number of simplifying allowances and made it possible to define the state of secretory-excretory (or filtration) function and the state of hemodynamics of each kidney as a result of single administration of a transit nephrotropic radiopharmaceutical.
Functional radionuclide imaging of renal mean transit time and glomerular filtration rate.	A technique for functional radionuclide imaging of renal mean transit time and glomerular filtration rate from the results of gamma camera renography with a computer is described. The method uses deconvolution analysis on each pixel time-activity curve. The images of both parameters are of good quality except in cases of very low glomerular filtration rate. They effectively summarize the transit and uptake information available from the renogram and should prove a valuable adjunct in its routine analysis.
Radionuclide cystography in vesicoureteric reflux.	We investigated 47 children in whom vesicoureteric reflux was clinically suspected by both conventional radiological and indirect radionuclide cystography. Comparison of the two methods showed no significant difference in their accuracy in detecting vesicoureteric reflux. The advantages and disadvantages of, and indications for, indirect radionuclide cystography are discussed.
Radionuclide measurement of bladder emptying rate. Simultaneous comparison with urinary flow rate obtained by uroflowmetry.	Mean and peak bladder emptying rates were measured by a radionuclide method using a gamma camera and Tc-99m DTPA and were compared with average and maximum urinary flow rates obtained by a uroflowmeter in 24 simultaneous measurements. A good correlation was found between the two methods. Average urinary flow rate correlates better with mean bladder emptying rate (r = 0.96, y = 1.04X + 0.14, s.e.e. = 1.2) than maximum urinary flow rate with peak bladder emptying rate (r = 0.83, y = 0.78X + 4.5, s.e.e. = 4.2). The results suggest that the radionuclide method can be used to measure the urinary flow rate, and has the advantage of establishing the postvoid residual urine.
The use of 99mTc-DTPA for detection and localization of site of acute gastrointestinal bleeding.	Intravenously injected 99mTc-DTPA was evaluated in 64 patients for its efficiency in detecting and localizing sites of acute upper and lower gastrointestinal (G.I.) bleeding. These studies were correlated with endoscopic and surgical findings. There were 34 bleeders and 30 non bleeders giving a sensitivity of 90%, specificity of 82% and accuracy of 86%. Of these, 49 were upper G.I. studies (stomach 21 and duodenum 28) and 15 were lower G.I. studies (small intestine 8, large bowel 7). Of the 49 upper G.I. studies, 27 showed active bleeding while 22 showed no bleeding at the time of the study resulting in a sensitivity of 87.5%, specificity of 76% and accuracy of 82%. Of the 15 lower G.I. studies, 7 were bleeders while 8 were non bleeders. All the lower G.I. bleeding sites were accurately localized with the 99mTc-DTPA. An incidental finding of these studies was the localization of 99mTc-DTPA in the site of inflammatory and malignant lesions of the G.I. tract. Of the 64 studies, 18 inflammatory and malignant lesions were detected with the IV injected 99mTc-DTPA; 10 were bleeders while 8 were non bleeders. Image subtraction of early from delayed images was helpful to differentiate bleeding from non bleeding cases in this last group of studies.
Lung clearance of 99mTc-DTPA in patients with acute lung injury and pulmonary edema.	Several acute and chronic conditions that alter the integrity of the pulmonary epithelium increased the rate of absorption or clearance into the circulation of small solutes deposited in the alveoli. Technetium 99m diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid can be deposited in the lungs as a submicronic aerosol and its rate of clearance measured with a gamma camera or simple probe. This clearance technique is currently being used to evaluate patients who have developed pulmonary edema and also to detect those patients from a high risk group who are likely to develop adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Its role in the evaluation of patients with pulmonary edema is still under active investigation. It is clear that a single measurement in patients who smoke is not useful, but repeated measurements may provide important information. The lung clearance measurement is very sensitive to changes in epithelial integrity but is not specific for ARDS. It may be most useful in combination with other predictive tests or when the clearance rate is normal.
Pelviureteric junction obstruction. The value of a post-micturition view in 99mTc DTPA diuretic renography.	Eighty-one 99mTc DTPA renograms were performed in 31 children who had previously undergone pyeloplasty for pelviureteric junction obstruction (PUJ). A post-micturition image following a diuretic stimulus excluded obstruction in 50% of the patients in whom the frusemide T75 was abnormally prolonged beyond 10 min. Evaluating the 99mTc DTPA renogram and the response to a diuretic without both changing the patient's position and ensuring an empty bladder may lead to incorrect diagnosis of PUJ obstruction.
Quantitative evaluation of brain edema by radionuclide imaging technique.	The objective of the present investigation was to quantify metabolic cerebral edema in dogs with impaired monoamine oxidase (MAO) function and liver disease using dynamic imaging of the brain with 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentacetic acid (99mTc DTPA). Data acquisition was started following a rapid intracarotid injection of 99mTc DTPA (5 mCi), and sixty 0.5-s images of the left or right hemisphere were taken. First-pass time-activity curves were obtained by selecting regions of interest for the appropriate brain hemisphere. The results of this study demonstrated that in phenelzine-treated animals there was a 6 to 38% reduction in brain washout slopes of 99mTc DTPA (24.0 +/- 11.5% reduction). These washout slopes were further reduced (range 24.0-86.0; 50.6 +/- 18.5% reduction) following the oral administration of tyramine (1 mg/kg). A significant correlation was noted between changes in washout slopes and the development of coma in these animals.
Dosimetric basis for the use of radionuclide methods in obstetrics]	The problem of a possible use of radionuclide methods of investigation (placentography and renography) in obstetrics was considered. Doses and permissible activities in pregnant women of the AP category belonging to groups at high risk of obstetric and perinatal pathology were worked out on the basis of the "Rules and standards of open radiopharmaceuticals in diagnostic purposes" (1984). The above investigations using the administration of short-lived radionuclides with total activity of 7.4 MBq (99mTc-albumin and DTPA) were shown to be safe for mother and fetus.
Pulmonary lymphatic clearance of 99mTc-DTPA from air spaces during lung inflation and lung injury.	A total of 22 sheep with lymphatic cannulas were used to determine if 99mTc-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) clears directly from the air spaces of the lungs into the lymph vessels. Each sheep was anesthetized and ventilated with an aerosol of the DTPA for 2-5 min, and the DTPA activities in the lymph and plasma were measured every 15 min for 2 h. After the first 45 min, the average ratio of the DTPA in the lymph to that in the plasma (L/P) was 1.03 +/- 0.06 (SD) in the six control experiments and 1.11 +/- 0.05 in the six experiments in which the lungs were inflated with a positive end-expired pressure of 10 cmH2O throughout the study. Direct movement of the DTPA from the air spaces into the lymph was not necessary to account for the DTPA clearance in these experiments because the L/P ratio was not significantly different from 1.0. Eight additional sheep received intravenous infusions of air at 0.2 ml.kg-1.min-1 for 2 h to induce lung injury before depositing the DTPA. In these sheep L/P was 1.53 +/- 0.28, which was significantly higher than the value measured in the control group (P less than 0.01). We considered the possibility that the increased L/P ratio in these sheep could be due to alterations in the distribution of the blood flow to the tissue, but the L/P ratio in four sheep whose distribution of blood flow was altered by inflation of a balloon in the right pulmonary artery was 1.05 +/- 0.10, the same as the control value.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypertension induced by occult renal tissue.	Hypertension was noted in 2 children thought to have a solitary kidney after multiple radiological studies. Aggressive diagnostic evaluation allowed for detection of occult contralateral renal tissue. Surgical removal of this parenchyma resulted in a return to normal blood pressure.
Immunoscintigraphic evaluation of lymph node involvement in prostatic carcinoma.	Five patients who were candidates for radical prostatectomy were investigated. One milligram of diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid derivatives of purified F(ab')2 fragments of monoclonal antibodies against prostatic acid phosphatase, labeled with 99mTc, were bilaterally injected into the periprostatic space. The amount of radioactivity injected varied between 3 and 7 mCi. Imaging took place dynamically for the first hour following injection, then at 6 and 24 hr. In one patient, lymph node metastases were detected in the left paraaortic, iliac, and obturator lymph nodes by this technique. The lesions incorporating radioactivity were confirmed to be metastases of prostatic cancer following staging pelvic lymphadenectomy. Immunolabeling electron microscopy studies revealed internalized antibody in prostatic cancer cells. In the four other patients, radioimaging did not show any lymph node metastases, and this negative finding was confirmed at surgery. These early data indicate the possibility of preoperative staging of prostatic cancer using radiolabeled derivatives of monoclonal antibodies raised against prostatic acid phosphatase and injected into the periprostatic area.
Pulmonary involvement in progressive systemic sclerosis: a multidisciplinary approach.	In an attempt to define the early features and the natural evolution of lung involvement in progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS), we planned a multidisciplinary study of these patients using radiological, scintigraphic and functional methods. As yet we have studied 21 subjects, all affected by PSS according to the American Rheumatism Association criteria. A well-defined restrictive functional pattern was present only in 10 patients out of 21; an increased elastic recoil may be present before a significant decrease of the transfer test for carbon monoxide; an increased alveolar-capillary permeability assessed by the 99mTc-diethylene-triamine-pentacetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) clearance rate has been detected in almost all the patients (13 out of 14) in at least one lung field; no significant correlation has been found between the radiological lung involvement and the 99mTc-DTPA clearance rate. We think that these preliminary results are consistent with an alveolar and interstitial inflammation rather than with a vasculitic process.
Acute cigarette smoke exposure causes lung injury in rabbits treated with ibuprofen.	We studied lung clearance of aerosolized technetium-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (99mTcDTPA), plasma concentrations of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and thromboxane B2, and pulmonary edema as indices of lung injury in rabbits exposed to cigarette smoke (CSE). Forty-six rabbits were randomly assigned to 4 groups: control sham smoke exposure (SS, N = 9), sham smoke exposure ibuprofen-pretreated (SS-I, N = 10), CSE (N = 9), sham smoke exposure ibuprofen-pretreated (SS-I, N = 10), CSE (N = 9), and CSE ibuprofen-pretreated (CSE-I, N = 19). Ibuprofen (cyclooxygenase eicosanoid inhibitor) was administered as a single daily intramuscular injection (25 mg/kg) for 7 days before the experiment. Cigarette or sham smoke was delivered by syringe in a series of 5, 10, 20, and 30 tidal volume breaths with a 15-min counting period between each subset of breaths to determine 99mTcDTPA biological half-life (T1/2). In the ibuprofen pretreated group, CSE caused significant decreases in 99mTcDTPA T1/2 and dynamic lung compliance. Furthermore, these changes in lung function were accompanied by severe injury to type I alveolar cell epithelium, pulmonary edema, and frequently death of the rabbits. These findings suggest that inhibition of the cyclooxygenase pathway before CSE exacerbates lung injury in rabbits.
Diagnostic accuracy of rest-exercise first pass ventriculography with a fast single crystal gamma camera in detecting coronary artery disease. Study of a group of male subjects without previous myocardial infarction.	Rest and exercise radionuclide ventriculograms were performed in 61 non infarcted, male, patients who underwent cardiac catheterization for chest pain and in 16 normal control subjects. Studies were performed using the first pass method with a fast single crystal gamma camera, which allowed a count rate of 140 +/- 19 Kcounts/sec to be reached during left ventricular filling; the count integral on left ventricular area was 10.8 +/- 1.6 Kcounts and the maximum count/pixel 155 +/- 16. We analyzed sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of global ejection fraction (EF) and of the regional wall motion in identifying ventricular function abnormalities due to obstructive coronary artery disease. The regional wall motion was evaluated with four functional images: regional ejection fraction (REF), amplitude (A) and phase (PH) from Fourier analysis and systolic transit times (TT). Sensitivity was near 90% for EF, REF, A and TT, while PH was less sensitive (80%); all functional images were more specific (nearly 90%) than EF (80%). Both sensitivity and specificity were lower for the exercise EKG (59% and 63%, respectively) in this patient group. Significant differences between single vessel and multiple vessel disease were also observed either for the EF increase/decrease (-1.34 +/- 7.4 and -7.82 +/- 9.96; P less than 0.05) or for the number of segments which developed wall motion abnormalities during exercise (1.22 +/- 0.73 and 2.15 +/- 1.04; P less than 0.02). In conclusion, with our method, a fast single crystal gamma camera is suitable for obtaining optimal first pass radionuclide ventriculograms with a count density sufficient either for global or regional left ventricular function evaluation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Measurement of glomerular filtration rate with 99mTc-DTPA: a comparison of gamma camera methods.	A comparison has been made between three gamma camera methods for estimation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) using 99mTc-DTPA in a group of 27 patients with widely different renal function. Plasma clearance of 99mTc-DTPA by multiple blood sampling was used as the reference. Percentage uptake of chelate in the bladder and kidneys at 20 min after injection gave the lowest standard error of 8.0 ml/min. Techniques using early uptake of isotope in the kidneys at 2 min after injection gave less accurate estimates. Correction for the vascular activity in the renal region of interest improved the results for the 2 min uptake technique. Gamma camera techniques provide rapid estimates of GFR which are less accurate than those obtained by plasma clearance of labelled chelate.
Uptake of 99mTc-DTPA by a renal oncocytoma.	In a patient with a large vascular renal mass, a preoperative DTPA scan showed retention of the activity within the tumour. On histology, the tumour proved to be an oncocytoma.
Determination of brain death with 123I-IMP and 99mTc-HM-PAO.	Brain imaging with radiolabeled amines, 123I-IMP and 99mTc-HM-PAO, is a rapid, safe, and specific bedside test for confirming brain death in the absence of cerebral blood flow. Therapeutic phenobarbital or thiopental levels do not interfere with the cerebral penetration ability of the lipophilic radiopharmacons.
A comparison of 99mTc-DTPA and 113mIn-DTPA aerosol clearances in humans. Effects of smoking, hyperinflation, and in vitro oxidation.	As an index of permeability of the alveolar epithelium, the clearance of an inhaled aerosol of 99mTc-DTPA is increased in several disease states. However, the usefulness of the test to assess the severity of disease is limited because healthy smokers also have abnormally rapid rates of clearance. Because the stability of the 99mTc-DTPA bond might be a contributory factor, we tested the affinity of 99mTc for DTPA in vitro, and in groups of healthy smokers (n = 13) and nonsmokers (n = 7) we measured the clearances of 99mTc-DTPA and 113mIn-DTPA, which have a similar molecular shape and charge. In vitro, sodium hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide released as much as 98% of free 99mTc from the 99mTc-DTPA complex. When incubated with human neutrophils stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate, between 4 and 7% of free 99mTc-DTPA was released after 30 min, and 12% was released after 60 min. In vivo, the clearances of both 99mTc-DTPA and 113mIn-DTPA in the smokers (n = 13) were faster than in the nonsmokers (n = 7) (p less than 0.05). Within the smokers, the mean 99mTc-DTPA clearance (T1/2 25 +/- 4 min) was faster than the mean 113mIn-DTPA clearance (34 +/- 6 min), (p less than 0.05). For nonsmokers, the difference was smaller (T1/2 99mTc-DTPA, 56 +/- 6; T1/2 113mIn-DTPA, 62 +/- 6) and not significant. During hyperinflation, smokers (n = 8) and nonsmokers (n = 8) both demonstrated an increase in 113mIn-DTPA clearance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding from the biliary tract (hematobilia). Detection by technetium-99m DTPA.	A case of hematobilia causing upper gastrointestinal bleeding is demonstrated by Tc-99m DTPA. The advantages of Tc-99m DTPA over Tc-99m sulfur colloid and RBCs are discussed.
Reproducibility of oesophageal transit studies: several 'single swallows' must be performed.	The 'single swallow' technique for the isotopic investigation of oesophageal function has been widely accepted. In our experience the results obtained when several consecutive 'single swallow' tests are performed show considerable variation. Although one or two swallows may be enough to diagnose abnormality, the exclusion of a motility disorder requires more, preferably six consecutive swallows.
Renal fraction of cardiac output cleared of radioactive indicator in 99Tcm-DTPA gamma camera renography.	The renal images recorded during 1 to 2 1/2 min postinjection in 99Tcm-DTPA gamma camera renography were used for determination of the total cleared renal fraction (TCRF) of cardiac output with respect to the radioactive indicator. The left and right cleared renal fractions of cardiac output were determined directly, i.e., assessment of single-kidney uptake function within a few minutes postinjection was also possible. TCRF was proportional to the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) determined by the 51Cr-EDTA plasma clearance in a group of 23 subjects with GFR in the interval 15 to 130 ml/min/1.73 m2. The slope of the regression line of TCRF against GFR was in agreement with the theoretical estimate for it. GFR could be predicted from TCRF with a standard error of estimate from 4 to 15 ml/min/1.73 m2 for values of GFR in the above interval. Intra-observer variability of TCRF was unbiased and varied between 4% (normal GFR) and 9% (decreased GFR). TCRF is proposed to represent an alternative to renal clearance for evaluation of renal uptake function.
Radionuclide studies on gastric evacuatory function in health and in the duodenal ulcer disease. II. Regional distribution of emptying index (RDEI) patterns.	Studies with a new method for visualizing the stomach evacuatory function - regional distribution of emptying index (RDEI) were performed on 35 healthy subjects and 34 duodenal ulcer patients. The observed gastric RDEI patterns are described in detail, and their pathophysiological meaning is discussed. A significantly higher incidence of an atypical gastric RDEI pattern was found in duodenal ulcer patients compared to normals. Except for a shorter disease duration, however, no other clinical features distinguished the patients with the present atypical gastric RDEI pattern from the remaining ones. It has been hypothesized that antral dysmotility is a cause of the observed phenomenon.
Measurement of glomerular filtration rate with a portable cadmium telluride detector.	The plasma clearance rate constant of 99Tcm-DTPA was measured with a portable cadmium telluride detector over anterior chest wall and lateral leg sites to obtain an empirical estimate of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Thirteen patients with a range of renal dysfunction were studied to compare the accuracy of the estimates over various time periods compared to GFR estimated from plasma sampling. The chest site was more accurate for GFR assessment over all time periods assessed up to 4 h following injection. The clearance rate constants obtained up to 1 h after injection from the chest site were not significantly less accurate then those from later time periods.
An experimental model for the detection and localisation of gastrointestinal bleeding using 99mTc-DTPA.	99mTc-DTPA was successfully used to detect simultaneously gastrointestinal bleeding sites in experimentally created mucosal ulcers in the colon and stomach of rabbits. Unlike the other radiopharmaceuticals that are currently used, 99mTc-DTPA was rapidly cleared from the vascular, hepatic and splenic circulation. The overall background radioactivity was low. 99mTc-DTPA appears to be an ideal agent for detection and localisation of gastrointestinal bleeding sites.
Changes in pulmonary clearance of technetium labelled DTPA during haemodialysis.	An index of pulmonary epithelial permeability has been studied in 12 patients with chronic renal failure during haemodialysis. It was assessed by the half time clearance from lung to blood (t 1/2 LB) of a nebulised solution containing technetium labelled diethylene triamine pentacetic acid (99mTc DTPA). Six patients were cigarette smokers and six were non-smokers. The non-smokers had greater predialysis permeability (mean 37.7, range 24-54 min) than non-smokers without renal disease (mean 60.2, range 38-99 min; p less than 0.025). The t 1/2 LB was measured before dialysis and during the first half hour and the last half hour of dialysis in all 12 patients and also during other periods of dialysis in 10 of them. Dialysis lasted for five hours in 11 patients and four hours in one patient. There was no significant change in the t 1/2 LB of 99mTc DTPA during early dialysis; but as dialysis progressed there was a statistically significant increase in t 1/2 LB, suggesting a reduction of pulmonary epithelial permeability. These results show no increase in an index of pulmonary epithelial permeability in association with the pulmonary sequestration of neutrophils that occurs in early haemodialysis. They also suggest that in chronic renal failure the epithelial permeability is increased and that this can be modified by haemodialysis.
Intestinal permeability to 99mTc-diethylenetriaminopentaacetic acid in inflammatory bowel disease.	Intestinal permeability in inflammatory bowel disease and its relation to periods of disease activity has been investigated by measuring the urinary excretion of DTPA labeled with 99mTc. Urine excretion in 10 control subjects was 2.7 +/- 1% of the test dose. Twelve patients with ulcerative colitis excreted 5.08 +/- 1.6% in remission, 10.61 +/- 2% during periods of mild activity, 19.41 +/- 0.9% during moderate activity, and 15.41 +/- 6.3% with severe activity. Sixteen patients with Crohn's disease excreted 5.7 +/- 1.9% in remission, 8.47 +/- 2.8% during mild activity of the disease, and 14.29 +/- 5.8% during moderate activity. No differences were observed between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, or between ileal and colonic forms of Crohn's disease. Excretion in remission was significantly greater than in control subjects and there was a correlation between excretion and disease activity. In serial determinations done in seven patients we found that urine excretion of the test substance correlated with disease activity. We also studied DTPA excretion in 10 cases with gastric or duodenal ulcer (2.28 +/- 1.4%), six cases of acute gastroenteritis (4.87 +/- 3.1%) and nine cases with other intestinal diseases (3.6 +/- 1.1%). In all these cases, DTPA excretion was lower than in inflammatory bowel disease. Our results show that the urinary excretion of DTPA is a simple test that measures accurately the degree of activity of inflammatory bowel disease. The test is useful in Crohn's disease as well as in ulcerative colitis, and detects intestinal permeability abnormalities even in clinical remission. Significantly lower excretions are found in other intestinal diseases. The test may be recommended as a screening test for use in clinical practice.
Glomerular filtration rate in children: validation and longitudinal use of determination from the 99mTc DTPA renogram.	The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated from the technetium diethylenetriaminepentacetic (99mTc DTPA) renogram by empirically correlating the renogram and clearance of the tracer as measured by plasma disappearance kinetics. To expand the potential application of this technique from its original description, minor changes in methodology were made; a new regression was generated with 30 subjects, and that formula was then validated prospectively. For the 50 children and adolescents in the prospective series whose GFR normalized for surface area (NGFR = GFR X 1.73 m2/SA; SA, surface area) was less than 120 mL/min/1.73 m2; renal function was estimated with a mean residual error of 8.0 mL/min/1.73 m2, and a mean relative error of 11%. These results are at least as good as those in the initial report, thus validating this method in a prospective series. To examine the use of this method longitudinally, 129 examinations were reviewed in 55 subjects who had NGFR estimated from the renogram (estimated) on at least two occasions. For 28 sets of serial examinations, NGFR was also measured by the plasma disappearance of 99mTc DTPA (measured). The true change in function for each set of serial examinations was defined as the increment for whichever method (estimation or measurement) was more stable. The mean longitudinal errors were 2.1 and 4.8 mL/min/1.73 m2 for measured and estimated NGFR, respectively. The increments in NGFR for these methods were correlated with a regression line near identity and r = .852. This indicates that a change in estimated NGFR reflects a change in measured NGFR of similar magnitude. This method can accurately estimate GFR from the 99mTc DTPA renogram, and it can be used longitudinally to follow children with renal disorders.
Tracheal permeability in rats exposed to ozone. An electron microscopic and autoradiographic analysis of the transport pathway.	Exposure of rats to ozone (O3), 0.8 ppm increases the tracheal permeability to 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetate (99mTc-DTPA) about twofold but to 125I-bovine serum albumin (125I-BSA) to a lesser extent. It is generally believed that exposure to air pollutants causes perturbation of tight junctions and formation of intercellular channels for the passage of molecules from airway lumen to blood. We now report that a second mechanism, vesicular transport, is operative in the transepithelial movement of molecules, that this mechanism is speeded in tracheas of O3-exposed rats, and that there is a concurrent delay in movement of BSA from connective tissue to capillaries after O3 exposure. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) instilled in trachea was taken up by endocytic vesicles, which could be localized in apical as well as basal regions of ciliated and nonciliated cells. A count of HRP-positive vesicles and measurement of their surface area revealed an approximate twofold increase in O3-exposed rats over that in control animals breathing clean air; this paralleled a twofold increase in transport of 99mTc-DTPA from tracheal lumen to blood. An autophagocytic process induced in tracheal epithelial cells by O3 is proposed. Despite the difference in the size of HRP and BSA, the 2 molecules migrated through common pathways and were colocalized in the luminal membranes as well as in endocytic vesicles and intercellular spaces in double labeling experiments involving simultaneous detection of HRP by cytochemistry and 125I-BSA by autoradiography. This procedure proved particularly useful in detecting a dramatic accumulation of 125I-BSA autoradiographic grains in subepithelial connective tissue and HRP accumulation in intercellular spaces and at the basal membrane-connective tissue junction in O3-exposed rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Renography with captopril. Changes in a patient with hypertension and unilateral renal artery stenosis.	In a 56-year-old man with severe familial hypertension and unilateral renal artery stenosis, captopril induced striking changes in the renograms of the affected kidney. After injection of orthoiodohippurate sodium I 131, the uptake phase was unchanged but the later curve showed continuous accumulation. In contrast, the uptake of technetium Tc 99m diethylenetriamine pentracetic acid was abolished. These changes are compatible with a cessation of filtration and maintenance of renal blood flow. After balloon dilatation of the stenosis, the blood pressure became lower, and these changes could no longer be demonstrated. The captopril renogram may provide useful information on the dependency of hypertension on unilateral renal artery stenosis.
The implications of decreased performance of new generation gamma-cameras on the interpretation of 131I-Hippuran renal images.	Several patients with renal failure in whom the kidneys were more clearly imaged with 99Tcm-DTPA than 131I-Hippuran were recently observed. We have postulated that our newer generation gamma-cameras have a reduced capacity to image 131I in comparison to older generation cameras. This hypothesis was tested by comparing representative older and newer imaging systems. Full-width tenth-maximum 99Tcm linespread functions were 1.20 and 1.55 cm for the older and newer cameras, respectively. The 99Tcm count rate on the newer camera was 111% that of the older camera, and the observed kidney to background count ratios in a phantom model were virtually identical for the two cameras imaging a number of simulated 99Tcm count distributions. Full-width tenth-maximum 131I linespreads were 1.55 and 4.78 cm, respectively, on the older and newer cameras and the 131I count rate on the newer camera was 27% of the count rate on the older system. The phantom model demonstrated a consistently lower 131I perceived kidney to background count ratio on the newer gamma-camera compared to the older system. These findings should be considered in the interpretation of 131I-Hippuran studies on newer-generation equipment until revised criteria of interpretation have been established. Non-visualization of the kidney may not have the same prognostic implication using modern cameras as has been reported from studies with older generation detector systems.
99mTc-glucoheptonate for quantitation of differential renal function.	Differential renal function was calculated by using 99mTc-glucoheptonate (Tc-GH) in 51 patients. Computer-acquired background-corrected individual renal function was calculated by using both the 1-3-min uptake counts and the 2-4-hr delayed static counts. The degree of correlation between the two was high (r = .96). An equally high correlation was noted in 16 children who were 12 years old or younger, in 15 patients with renal size disparity greater than 60/40%, and in six patients with abnormal creatinine clearances. Ten patients had a 30-min dynamic 99mTc-DTPA study followed immediately by the injection of Tc-GH and acquisition of delayed static images 2-4 hr later. A high degree of correlation (r = .99) was seen between the 1-3-min differential function obtained by using Tc-DTPA and the 2-4-hr delayed differential function obtained by using Tc-GH. This study shows that Tc-GH is a clinically useful and valid tool for calculation of differential renal function and that Tc-GH combines many of the best aspects of Tc-DTPA and Tc-DMSA.
Radionuclide scintigraphy of the brain and ultrasound studies in tubercular meningitis.	The present study was undertaken to assess the usefulness of brain scintigraphy and ultrasound evaluation of changes described in tuberculous meningitis. Brain scans were done with Tc-99m DTPA in 127 cases of tuberculous meningitis (TBM) and ultrasound studies in 41 cases with open anterior fontanelles. The data show that 54/127 (42.5%) of cases had abnormal brain scans, of which 33/54 had cerebrovascular infarcts and 14/54 had tuberculomas, while the remaining cases had either subdural effusions or generalized increased activity. The cerebrovascular infarcts were more frequent in patients with acute onset of TBM with associated hemiplegias. The ultrasound studies indicated that 80% of all cases of TBM had a mild to severe dilatation of the ventricles. About 55% of cases had a dilatation of only the lateral ventricles while the remaining cases had a block of aqueduct or beyond the fourth ventricles. Increased intracranial pressure changes were associated with a higher incidence of severe ventricular dilatation. Noninvasive detection methods in the study of TBM are important not only from the point of view of diagnosis but also to understand and evaluate the pathological changes occurring in vivo during the disease process and to judge the progress and response to treatment. A combination of ultrasound and brain scans offers diagnostic accuracy comparable to CT. Apart from cost, the larger radiation doses resulting from CT studies preclude its routine use in pediatric subjects.
Comparison of a radionuclide method and catheterization for the measurement of residual volume of urine in the bladder.	Residual urine volume in the bladder was measured using a gamma camera and Tc-99m DTPA labeling of the urine and was compared to urethral catheterization in 21 male patients. The results of the radionuclide method did not differ significantly from the catheterization (P less than 0.001) and a good correlation was found between the two methods (r = 0.98). The results suggest that the simple, safe radionuclide method may be used instead of catheterization to measure residual urine volume in the bladder.
The hyperactive halo as a sign of renal graft death in 99mTc-DTPA studies.	In scintigraphic studies of renal transplants the absence of renal perfusion and clearance have been demonstrated to have many possible pathologic etiologies, vascular obstructions, and rejections. Increased perinephric activity was suggested as a sign of renal infarction and its absence may indicate potential renal viability. A case is presented in which a hyperactive halo was seen when the graft was dying.
Acute renal artery occlusion: the role of collateral circulation.	It is not known if no when the probability of success is sufficient to warrant emergency revascularization of acute renal artery occlusion. This probability depends on the ability of collateral circulation to maintain viability. The role of collateral circulation in maintaining renal viability during six and 48 hours of renal artery occlusion has been studied in mongrel dogs. Collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain renal viability beyond the three hours of warm complete ischemia known to cause infarction. It is not sufficient to prevent progressive loss of renal function. Hypertension frequently results. Emergency revascularization of acute bilateral renal artery occlusion, therefore, is indicated. It is not indicated for unilateral occlusion with adequate contralateral function because of the high probability of resulting hypertension.
Evaluation of CSF shunt patency by means of technetium-99m DTPA.	Evaluation of 192 cerebrospinal fluid shunts was performed using 1 mCi of technetium-99m DTPA which was injected into the shunt tubing. This was found to be a safe, simple method of evaluating shunt patency. No complications were noted with this procedure, nor was there any documented case of infection related to the injection of the isotope. The sensitivity of the test for evaluation of patency was 97%, specificity 90%, and accuracy 93%. Various patterns of tracer clearance are noted and discussed. The role on this test as an aid in making management decisions is detailed.
Evaluation of normal and pathologic ureteral dynamics: comparison of a radioisotopic method with ureteral pressure/flow perfusion study.	The ureteral pressure/flow perfusion study has lately been repopularized and its use demonstrated in many forms of suspected obstructive uropathy. The present study was undertaken to compare the ureteral pressure/flow perfusion study with a radioisotopic method of investigating ureteral obstruction. The 2 methods were evaluated with a mongrel canine laboratory model. Both diagnostic modalities were employed concomitantly on intact renoureteral units; first with the ureter unobstructed, then after submission to varying degrees of ureteral occlusion. Analysis of data from these studies shows that the curve pattern produced by the computer generated 99mTc-DTPA renogram is as accurate as ureteral pressure/flow perfusion study in determining the presence and degree of ureteral obstruction.
Gold- 195m, a new generator-produced short-lived radionuclide for sequential assessment of ventricular performance by first pass radionuclide angiocardiography.	The feasibility of performing rapid sequential first pass radionuclide angiocardiography using a new short-lived radiotracer, gold-195m (195mAu) half-life 30.5 seconds) was evaluated. This radionuclide emits a 262 keV gamma ray and is the daughter of mercury-195 (195mHg) (half-life 41.6 hours). The prototype tabletop 195mHg/195mAu generator produced 20 to 25 mCi of 195mAu in 2 ml of eluate (yield of 40 percent). The breakthrough of 195mHg in the eluate was 0.02 percent of the amount of 195mHg in the generator. The eluate contained 20 microCi of 195mHg per study, resulting in an estimated human radiation dose of 0.007 rad/study to the whole body and 0.34 rad/study to the kidney. Four dogs each had 15 to 20 sequential first pass studies performed with 195mHg at 3 to 10 minute intervals using a computerized multicrystal gamma camera. During the left ventricular phase, 160,000 to 190,000 counts/s were acquired. The end-diastolic left ventricular region of interest contained 3,000 to 6,000 counts (background- and decay-corrected). Multiple reproducible values for left ventricular ejection fraction were obtained during stable conditions. The mean (+/- standard deviation) interstudy variability was 4 +/- 2 percent. During infusion of isoproterenol, rapid increase of left ventricular ejection fraction was demonstrated. Excellent agreement was observed between studies performed with technetium-99m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) and 195mAu. The mean interstudy difference was 4 +/- 3 percent. Thus, sufficiently high yield and dose are obtained from the 195mHg/195mAu generator for reliable high count rate first pass determination of left ventricular ejection fraction. This new short-lived radiotracer makes possible rapid sequential assessments of ventricular function at greatly reduced patient exposure to radiation.
Improved regional selectivity of hepatic arterial BCNU with degradable microspheres.	Starch microspheres 40 micrometers in diameter, which are rapidly degraded by serum amylase, have been administered through hepatic arterial catheters to five patients with primary and metastatic liver cancer to determine whether (1) arterial blood flow through the liver could be temporarily blocked, and (2) such occlusion at the level of the arteriolar capillary bed would enhance regional uptake and catabolism and decrease systemic exposure to simultaneously administered hepatic arterial bischlorethylnitrosourea (BCNU). It was possible with 10 ml of microspheres (9 X 10(6) microspheres/ml) injected into the hepatic artery to transiently (for 15-30 minutes) reduce hepatic flow by 80-100% in the five patients. When BCNU (50 mg/m2 in one minute) was given with microspheres there was a 30-90% reduction in systemic nitrosourea exposure and in peak levels. No myelosuppression was noted and hepatic toxicity consisted of acute pain due to BCNU and 1.5-2.0 fold transient enzyme elevations. One patient with cholangiocarcinoma showed a partial response lasting three months; three patients had stable disease and one patient with colon carcinoma had progressive disease. Thus, this pilot study suggests that concurrent intra-arterial microspheres and BCNU may have the potential to improve selective regional drug effect with marked diminution in systemic toxicity.
Objective measurement of changes in regional wall motion characteristics following coronary artery bypass grafting using tomographic radionuclide ventriculography.	Difficulties arise when using non-invasive methods to measure changes in regional left ventricular function. With the increasing recognition of the entity of hibernating myocardium, and the known asymmetric effects of coronary artery disease, this is an important problem, as it prevents detailed investigation of the effects of revascularization upon ventricular function. We investigated the use of tomographic radionuclide ventriculography in assessing such changes. Twenty consecutive patients (18 males, 2 females, mean age 60 years), undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery, were identified and imaged prior to and after surgery. The mean global left ventricular ejection fraction was 42 and 45% pre- and post-surgery, respectively. Following revascularization, it was improved in 9 patients, unchanged in 3 and deteriorated in 8. By comparison with pooled normal data from 25 subjects, 10 patients were noted to have overall resting phase values within normal limits. After surgery, an improvement was seen in 5 patients, no significant change in 11 and a deterioration in 4. With respect to regional ejection fraction, 24 of 80 segments improved, 25 remained unchanged and 31 deteriorated. For regional phase analysis, 26 improved, 45 remained unchanged and 9 deteriorated. confirmed that important regional changes in left ventricular function occur following revascularization, even without a change in global ejection fraction.
Diagnosis of renal artery stenosis: feasibility of combining MR angiography, MR renography, and gadopentetate-based measurements of glomerular filtration rate.	Our aim was to evaluate the feasibility of combining in a single test (1) structural evaluation of renal arteries with MR angiography, (2) functional evaluation of global glomerular filtration rates calculated on the basis of plasma disappearance of gadopentetate dimeglumine, and (3) renographic analysis of individual kidneys based on the dynamic changes in signal intensity that occur after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine.
Diuretic renal scan: is it always reliable?	The differentiation between significant mechanical obstruction and nonobstructive dilation of the kidneys and ureters is fundamental to patient management. The diuretic renal scan is a useful test in this situation because it usually is reliable and reproducible and is noninvasive and objective, providing information about the function of each kidney. However, this study has given variable results in a small number of patients. We report our experience with five such patients and recommend an algorithm for evaluating patients with equivocal scan results. This report emphasizes the importance of continued follow-up and the need for periodic reevaluation of patients with unexplained urinary symptoms or persistent flank pain, even when the initial diuretic renal scan is normal.
The influence of age on aerosol deposition in children with cystic fibrosis.	Nebulized aerosols are commonly used to deliver drugs for the treatment of respiratory disease in children, but there are inadequate data on the dose of drug depositing in the lungs in this age group, and the effect of age on this dose. We therefore aimed to quantify total and regional deposition of nebulized aerosol in children of widely differing age. Twelve infants (median age 0.8 yrs, range 0.3-1.4 yrs) who were asleep, and eight older children (median age 10.8 yrs, range 6.3-18.0 yrs) with cystic fibrosis were studied. Radiolabelled normal saline aerosol was generated by a Turret nebulizer, with a driving flow of 9 l.min-1. All subjects inhaled aerosol via the nasal route, whilst the older children undertook a second study with inhalation via the oral route. Following aerosol inhalation, planar and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans were obtained. For the nasal route, total lung deposition was lower in infants (median 1.3%, range 0.3-1.6%) than in older children (median 2.7%, range 1.6-4.4%). For the older children inhaling via the nasal or oral route, there was no influence of age on lung, upper respiratory tract, or the sum of upper respiratory tract and lung deposition. We conclude that the dose of a nasally inspired aerosol reaching the lungs of infants who are asleep is approximately half that for older children, when the nebulizer is operating at 9 l.min-1. Age does not affect deposition of nasally or orally inspired aerosols in older children.
The importance of the perfusion index in the evaluation of captopril renography for transplant renal artery stenosis.	Severe renal artery stenosis (RAS) is a relatively uncommon complication following renal transplantation but is a curable cause of hypertension which demands reliable early diagnosis to reduce morbidity, mortality and graft loss. Captopril renography has been used for a number of years as a method of detecting RAS mainly in native kidneys, with only a few studies concerning the transplant situation. Controversy still exists as to the diagnostic accuracy of this test and as to the most appropriate interpretation criteria with which to establish a positive result. This paper reports the evaluation of 26 captopril renography investigations on hypertensive renal transplant patients with a suspected diagnosis of RAS. Each renogram study was correlated with an arteriogram as the 'gold standard' which was undertaken within 28 days of the renography. A sensitivity of 92%, a specificity of 86% and an accuracy of 88% were achieved by including a consideration of the change in perfusion to the kidney between pre- and post-challenge studies. It is concluded that captopril renography is a useful screening test for the detection of transplant renal artery stenosis (TRAS).
An anatomical and physiological model of the renal parenchyma--model development and parametric identification.	Renal function is often characterized by the activity/time curves obtained by imaging the aorta and kidney. Non-parametric deconvolution of the activity/time curves is clinically useful as a diagnostic tool in determining renal transit times. Typically non-parametric deconvolution is performed using a technique that does not require a priori information, e.g. matrix-based and Fourier-transform methods. Using data filtering and conservation of mass constraints, non-parametric deconvolution continues to exhibit noise in the deconvolved curves. This noise hampers the identification of renal transit times. Given the shortcomings of non-parametric deconvolution, a parametric model of the renal response has been developed. Our model is shown to be anatomically and physiologically plausible. In this paper, the parametric model structure is used, in conjunction with experimental data, to estimate renal physiological parameters. These parameters include the filtration fraction, renal blood transit time and urine transit times. The model parameters are then related to the minimum transit time (MinTT), mean transit time (MTT), glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and parenchymal transit time index (PTTI). As deconvolution techniques often produce negative artifacts, Fine et al developed a technique to determine an aorta background to minimize this effect. In this paper this work is extended to determine a reasonable renal background from aorta activity/time curves. Non-parametric deconvolution is used to provide initial estimates of model parameters. The model is then fitted to twelve healthy background-corrected kidneys by an iterative parameter-estimation technique. The normal values correspond to those reported in the literature. These normal values are then used to identify renal arterial stenosis in two renal hypertensive patients. The results suggest that parametric identification, based on a renal-retention-function model, may provide additional anatomical and physiological information that is not provided by conventional non-parametric methods.
Ranitidine bismuth citrate and ranitidine do not affect gastric emptying of a radio-labelled liquid meal.	Ranitidine bismuth citrate, a new chemical entity which is a salt complex of ranitidine and bismuth citrate, is being developed for the treatment of relapse of benign gastric and duodenal ulcer and eradication of Helicobacter pylori. The aim of the present study was to establish whether ranitidine bismuth citrate (800 mg) or ranitidine hydrochloride (300 mg) have any effect on gastric emptying of a liquid meal using gamma scintigraphy. On three separate occasions, each of twelve subjects received a single oral tablet of 800 mg ranitidine bismuth citrate, 300 mg ranitidine hydrochloride or placebo in random order. Thirty minutes after dosing each subject was given 375 ml of 99mTc-DTPA (diethylene triaminepentaacetic acid) labelled Clinifeed-ISO. The primary endpoint was the time to 50% gastric emptying (t50%). The proportion of the meal remaining was summarised by weighted mean proportion of the meal remaining in the stomach over 0-60 min and 0-180 min, separately. No differences were observed for t50%, weighted mean 0-60 min, and weighted mean 0-180 min between any two treatments. In man, we have detected no significant effect of single oral doses of ranitidine bismuth citrate 800 mg or ranitidine hydrochloride 300 mg on the rate of gastric emptying of a liquid meal when compared with placebo.
Noninvasive, real-time monitoring of renal function during critical care.	The inadequacy of the current techniques to monitor renal function has been the most important limitation for determining the appropriateness of a particular form of therapy in acute renal failure. The objective of this study was to determine the advantage offered by a new method of accurate, noninvasive, and real-time monitoring of renal function during the critical care of patients. A radiation detector attached to a miniature data logger was used to monitor the clearance of the glomerular filtration agent 99mTc-diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid from the extracellular space in 20 patients admitted into an intensive care unit. The rate constant for this clearance was calculated online from 5-min epoch lengths of activity versus time. Changes in this constant were compared with changes in plasma creatinine and timed urine output. The results showed that the ambulatory renal monitor could accurately measure rapid changes in renal function during the critical care of patients who are at risk of acute renal failure with a resolution time of 5 to 10 min. The sensitivity and specificity of the technique are also superior to plasma creatinine and urine output because it can detect minimal and transient changes in renal function that otherwise may have gone undetected by these parameters. This unique approach should allow for the immediate institution and/or adjustment of the appropriate therapeutic procedure to preserve or improve the renal function.
Localization of bronchopleural fistula using ventilation scintigraphy.	It can be difficult to localize or even lateralize the site of persistent bronchopleural fistula in patients who have undergone thoracotomy. If the site of persistent air leak can be identified noninvasively, it may be possible to repair the leak with thoracoscopic techniques and thereby avoid repeat thoracotomy. This article reports experience using 99mTc-DTPA ventilation scintigraphy to localize persistent bronchopleural fistulas in six patients. The site of bronchopleural fistula was identified in four patients. In the other two patients, no leak was identified, and the clinical course confirmed that a significant bronchopleural fistula did not exist.
Bronchoalveolar lavage and 99mTc-DTPA clearance as prognostic factors in asbestos workers with and without asbestosis.	The aims of this study are to investigate the change-over time of lung function and chest radiographic findings in patients with asbestosis (AS) and asbestos workers without asbestosis (AW). Secondly, to correlate these changes with broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) profiles and with lung epithelial permeability, as detected by half-time lung-to-blood (t1/2 LB) clearance of an inhaled aerosol of diethylene triamine pentacetate labelled with technetium 99 (99mTc-DTPA) obtained a mean period of 4.2 yr (range 2.3-5.8) previously. Thirty-three patients with asbestosis and 24 asbestos workers with substantial asbestos exposure were followed-up. Nineteen healthy smokers (HS) with no asbestos exposure who were followed up for a mean period of 3.9 yr were taken as a control group for spirometric changes. Compared with AW, FEV1, FVC and TLCO were lower in AS (P < 0.0001 in each case). Smoker AS and AW had lower numbers (P < 0.03) and percentages (P < 0.004) of BAL lymphocytes and higher numbers (P < 0.04) and percentages (P < 0.02) of BAL neutrophils plus eosinophils than ex- and non-smokers. Annual declines of FEV1 (dFEV1 yr-1) and FVC (dFVC yr-1) in AS and AW were significantly greater than in HS and predicted annual declines (P < 0.002 in each case). Annual declines of TLCO (dTLCO yr-1) and KCO (dKCO yr-1) in AS and AW were significantly greater than predicted annual declines (P < 0.002 in each case). No significant differences were noted between AS and AW in annual declines in any lung function measurement. dTLCO yr-1, dKCO yr-1 were significantly greater in smokers than in ex- and non-smokers, (P < 0.05 and P < 0.04 respectively). Annual decline did not relate to base line values for any lung function measurement. Numbers and proportions of BAL lymphocyte were higher (P < 0.008 and P < 0.02, respectively) and numbers and proportions of BAL neutrophils and eosinophils were lower (P < 0.02 and P < 0.03, respectively) in patients in whom dTLCO yr-1 was less than 0.3 mmol min-1 kPa-1 than in patients in whom dTLCO yr-1 was more than 0.3 mmol min-1 kPa-1. dTLCO yr-1 inversely correlated with t1/2 LB; r = 0.51; (P < 0.008). Patients in whom the radiograph remained unchanged had higher numbers (P < 0.002) and percentages (P < 0.001) of BAL lymphocytes than patients in whom the radiograph deteriorated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gastric retention of sucralfate gel and suspension in upper gastrointestinal diseases.	This study was designed to compare by scintigraphy the gastric retention of a new dosage form of sucralfate as gel (Gastrogel) with that of sucralfate suspension in 25 patients with upper gastrointestinal symptoms referred for routine endoscopy. After endoscopy 4 subgroups were defined: macroscopically normal mucosa (n = 7), antral gastritis and/or erosions (n = 6), gastric ulcer (n = 6) and duodenal ulcer (n = 6). Each patient received either sucralfate gel or sucralfate suspension in equivalent doses (5 ml containing 1 g sucralfate). Both formulations were labelled with 111 MBq 99mTc-DTPA before administration. The mean value of t1/2 in the total group was significantly longer when patients were taking sucralfate gel (61.6 min) compared to sucralfate suspension (33.8 min) (P < 0.001). The mean values of t1/2 were significantly longer for sucralfate gel compared to sucralfate suspension also among the subgroups (macroscopically normal P < 0.02, antral gastritis P < 0.05, gastric ulcer P < 0.02 and duodenal ulcer P < 0.05). After 2 and 3 hours, the percentage residual activity in the gastric area was significantly higher following administration of sucralfate gel compared to sucralfate suspension. This study has shown that, compared to sucralfate suspension, sucralfate gel persists longer in the stomach of patients with gastritis and peptic ulcer.
Delayed imaging of Tc-99m-DTPA-HSA SPECT in subacute cerebral infarction.	Cerebral blood volume measurement by Tc-99m-DTPA-HSA SPECT was performed in a patient with subacute cerebral infarction to evaluate compensatory vasodilatation. Additional delayed imaging revealed focal increased radioactivity that was not found on the early images, indicating leakage of radioactive agents due to blood-brain barrier breakdown. Delayed SPECT may be helpful to detect areas unsuitable for estimating regional blood volume.
A comparison between estimates of GFR using [99mTc]DTPA clearance and the approximation of Cockcroft and Gault.	The formula of Cockcroft and Gault, relating age, weight, sex and plasma creatinine is widely used to estimate glomerular function. Its ability to predict [99mTc]DTPA clearance, an accepted measure of GFR, is therefore of interest.
The scintigraphic effect of extracorporeal lithotripsy: prospective series of 25 cases]	25 patients with non complicated renal stones were treated by extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) using Sonolith 3000 an electrohydraulic generator type. They were evaluated before, 15 days and 3 months after ESWL by renal scintigraphy, using for 15 of them technetium -99m dimer captosuccinic acid and technetium -99m-diethylene-triamine acetate for the last 10. This follow up scintigraphic study shows no reduction of glomerular filtration rate after ESWL but some focal parenchymal lesions. Very few of these lesions persist at 3 months. These parenchymal damages seem to be less frequent and less persistent than with piezo-electric lithotripter.
Effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs on renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate in patients with glomerulonephritis.	We investigated the effects of NSAIDs (Ibuprofen) on renal plasma flow (RPF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in patients with glomerulonephritis. The study included 98 patients (53 men and 45 women) with idiopathic glomerulonephritis. All of the patients received Ibuprofen 1200 mg (3x400) during 7 days. Before and after the treatment with Ibuprofen ERPF (clearance of 131I-Hippuran) and GFR (clearance of 99mTc-DTPA) were determined. In our patients administration of Ibuprofen was associated with a significant reduction in renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate. In patients with reduced renal function the decrease in RPF and GFR after Ibuprofen was significantly greater than in patients with normal renal function.
Evaluation of iohexol as a marker for the clinical measurement of glomerular filtration rate in dogs.	The contrast medium iohexol can be used as a marker for the measurement of glomerular filtration rate. It has the advantages of sample stability and the availability of a simple, automated (though expensive) analyser. The clearance of iohexol was compared with the clearance of Tc-DTPA in 24 dogs with known or suspected renal impairment. The results were comparable but fractionally lower with iohexol. The correction factors developed for human beings were found to be satisfactory in the dogs, thus validating the software routines used in the automated analyser with the canine samples.
A review of renal scarring in children.	It is now widely accepted that children with a proven urinary tract infection should undergo some form of diagnostic imaging to assess the presence of, or the potential to develop, renal scarring. The type of investigation which should be performed is controversial. Some centres still perform intravenous urography, others rely on ultrasound alone, while others believe that a 99Tc(m)-dimercaptosuccinic acid (99Tc(m)-DMSA) scan is essential. This review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques by drawing from the extensive literature currently available. The consensus view is that a DMSA scan is the most sensitive method of detecting renal scarring and of highlighting the kidney at risk of developing scarring. It is hoped that wider early use of DMSA scintigraphy will lead to a fall in the number of children who develop end-stage renal disease.
Quantitative evaluation of 99mTc-GSA for fatty liver and ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats]	99mTc-GSA (GSA) liver scintigraphy was performed in rats with fatty liver and ischemia-reperfusion injury to study the usefulness of GSA in evaluating these pathological processes. Fatty liver was produced by feeding rats a choline-deficient diet. The rats with fatty liver were divided into five groups according to the length of the diet (controls, two weeks, six weeks, 10 weeks, and 12 weeks). In the rats dieted for two weeks and six weeks, regional hepatic ischemia was also induced by clamping the left hepatic artery and the left portal vein for 10 minutes, then reperfusion was performed for 15 minutes. GSA was administered via the IVC.t90, or the time at which the liver time activity curve reached ninety percent of its peak value, was used as an index of GSA hepatic uptake, Ku and Kd, determined by two compartment analysis, were also used as indices. In rats of the fatty liver group, we confirmed microscopically that various degrees of fatty infiltration existed according to the diet period, and t90 became significantly longer according to the severity of fatty infiltration. Ku and Kd also decreased according to the severity of fatty infiltration. In the rats with fatty infiltration and ischemia-reperfusion injury, t90 also increased according to the severity of fatty infiltration, becoming longer than in the rats without ischemia-reperfusion injury. Quantitative analysis of GSA liver scintigraphy was useful for evaluating fatty liver and ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Case report: the need for caution when using the spleen to assess renal blood flow in renography.	Visual assessment of renal blood flow from renography is usually achieved by comparing the count rate from the kidney with that of the spleen during the first pass of the radiopharmaceutical agent. This is not justifiable if splenic blood flow is abnormal. In nine subjects without evidence of renal or other significant disease, the mean ratio of the slopes of the first pass curves over the left kidney and the spleen was 1.7 (SD 0.32). However, an additional patient, a 67-year-old female with type-II cryoglobulinaemia, illustrated the need for caution when using this approach. Her splenic blood flow was significantly elevated, resulting in a kidney/spleen slope ratio of only 0.66, even though her renal function was thought to be normal.
Evaluation of alveolar permeability and lung ventilation in patients with chronic renal failure using Tc-99m DTPA radioaerosol inhalation lung scintigraphy.	Lung ventilation (LV) and alveolar permeability (AP) were measured in 24 male chronic renal failure (CRF) patients on regular hemodialysis (HD). LV and AP were determined by Tc-99m DTPA aerosol inhalation lung scintigraphy using commercial lung radioaerosol delivery units. The equilibrium LV images were visually interpreted by two independent and experienced nuclear medicine physicians. The degree of AP damage to the total right lung was presented as the clearance rate (k value; %/min) of the time-activity curve from dynamic total right lung images. The results showed 10/24 (42%) cases with inhomogeneous distribution and 8/24 (33%) cases with hypoventilation on equilibrium LV images. In comparison with 10 male normal controls, the k value of the CRF patient group was larger (1.14 +/- 0.36%/min vs 0.75 +/- 0.14%/min, p value < 0.05). In addition, there was no significant correlation for k value and albumin level (r2 = 0.008) or for k value and HD duration (r2 = 0.228). In conclusion, CRF can predispose patients to LV change and AP damage. However, the degree of AP damage is not related to serum albumin level or HD duration.
Effect of detergent combined with large tidal volume ventilation on alveolocapillary permeability.	The combined effect of large tidal volume ventilation (LTVV) and detergent-induced surfactant dysfunction on the clearance kinetics of technetium-99m-labelled diethylene triamine pentaacetate was investigated. Four groups of rabbits (n = 6 in each) were studied: (1) controls, (2) detergent, (3) LTVV, and (4) detergent + LTVV. Clearance was measured for 3 h and the kinetics was analysed by fitting mono- and biexponential equations to the clearance curve and was expressed as a half-life (T 1/2). Pulmonary clearance of 99mTc-DTPA was monoexponential in control animals (T 1/2 = 194 min) and in animals ventilated with LTVV (T 1/2 = 43 min, P < 0.01 compared with controls). In contrast, clearance was biexponential after detergent administration with or without LTVV. T 1/2 values of the fast and slow compartments were 5.4 and 80 min, respectively, with the fast fraction comprising 81% of the radioactivity after detergent alone. When detergent was combined with LTVV, clearance was bicompartmental as with detergent alone, with the same size of the fast fraction. However, clearance from each of the slow (P < 0.01) and fast compartments (P < 0.05) increased significantly. Clearance from the slow compartment was thus similar to T 1/2 during LTVV alone. Large tidal volume ventilation induced a faster than normal clearance of a single compartment, whereas detergent induced kinetics that was distinctly bicompartmental. The mechanisms increasing permeability of the alveolocapillary barrier after detergent and during LTVV seem different and may be additive.
Lipids infused into the jejunum accelerate small intestinal transit but delay ileocolonic transit of solids and liquids.	Various nutrients are known to alter small intestinal motility patterns although their effect on transit of fluids and solids in man is not clear.
Evaluation of glomerular filtration rate by camera-based method in both children and adults.	We describe a method to evaluate glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in both children and adults using 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) and a gamma camera.
Renal depth estimates to improve the accuracy of glomerular filtration rate.	This study was performed to validate a computer implementation of the Gates' method for radionuclide glomerular filtration rate (RGFR) calculation. The accuracy of the original method was improved by replacing the Tonnesen formula that estimated renal depth with direct measurement from lateral views to calculate tissue attenuation correction.
