Evaluation of the phytic acid effect on the labeling of blood elements with technetium-99m and on the survival of a strain of Escherichia coli treated with stannous fluoride.	The labeling of red blood cells with technetium-99m (99mTc) depends on a reducing agent and stannous ions, as chloride or fluoride, are widely utilized. This labeling may also be altered by drugs. Moreover, some authors have reported that the survival of Escherichia coli (E. coli) cultures decreases in presence of stannous ions. Phytic acid is present in the daily diet and we evaluated its influence on: (i) the labeling of blood elements with 99mTc and (ii) on the survival of an E. coli strain treated with stannous fluoride. Heparinized whole blood was withdrawn from Wistar rats and it was incubated with stannous chloride and with 99mTc, as sodium pertechnetate, centrifuged and plasma (P) and blood cells (BC) were isolated. Samples of P and BC were also precipitated with trichloroacetic acid, centrifuged and soluble (SF) and insoluble fractions (IF) isolated. E. coli culture was treated with stannous fluoride in presence of phytic acid. As phytic acid altered the fixation of 99mTc on BC, on IF-P and on IF-BC and, moreover, it abolished the lethal effect of stannous fluoride on the E. coli culture, we can suggest that, probably, phytic acid would have chelating properties to the stannous ions.
Graphical analysis of 99mTc thyroid scintigraphy.	A new non-invasive simple method for quantitative evaluation of thyroid was presented using graphical analysis of the transfer process of technetium-99m pertechnetate (99mTc) from the blood to thyroid. Thirty subjects were studied. After a bolus injection of 111 MBq of 99mTc, the data were recorded on a 128 x 128 matrix as 60 frames of 1.5-second duration. ROIs were placed over the aortic arch and bilateral thyroid lobes. The activity of the aorta was monitored instead of the arterial activity. Graphical analysis by plotting B(t)/A(t) versus integral(0)t A(tau)d tau/A(t) gave a straight line within the first 30 seconds in all subjects. The slope of the line was the unidirectional influx rate of 99mTc (k(u)). Thyroid perfusion index (TPI) was calculated to standardize where the ratio of ROI(thyroid) size to ROI(aorta) size was set as 10. K(u) and TPI showed good correlation with 99mTc thyroid uptake. Hyperthyroid patients showed high values of k(u) and TPI. Considering that these indices were determined at the first pass of 99mTc, this method may be helpful especially in the evaluation of thyroid perfusion.
Neutrophil and platelet dynamics at organ level after cardiopulmonary bypass: an in vivo study in neonatal pigs.	The aim was to investigate if organ dysfunction is a consequence of cell accumulation in the tissue and whether this accumulation is caused by the cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) procedure. Twenty-six piglets were used in the sham group (sternotomy, n=12) or in the CPB group (sternotomy, CPB, n=14). Isotope-labeled autologous (99m)Tc-neutrophils (PMNs) and (111)In-platelets were infused and dynamically followed at organ level with a gamma camera before, during, and 4 h after termination of CPB. The CPB group showed a 49% increase in (99m) Tc-PMNs in the kidneys in the postoperative period compared to a decrease of 2% in the sham group. A less marked decrease was observed in the lungs and peripheral blood between the two groups. The increased radioactivity at organ level post-CPB could be due to changes in flow, extraction in the organ or accumulation of cells, especially in the kidneys and lungs, and might contribute to temporary organ dysfunction postoperatively.
Monoclonal antibody BW431/26 labelled with technetium 99m and indium 111: an investigation of the biodistribution and the dosimetry in patients.	As a competitive diagnostic tool for the detection of malignant tumours and other pathological conditions, monoclonal antibodies have long been established. Herein we give the biokinetic data of the antibody BW 431/26 and the consequent radiation dose to patients. These parameters were recorded in 39 patients, using the antibody labelled either with technetium 99m or indium 111. Remarkable differences were observed between the two radionuclides. Whereas the indium-labelled one showed biexponential elimination kinetics, the technetium-labelled one is eliminated linearly over time. The distribution pattern of the two is identical, although the radiation dose varies quite a lot, being 20-fold higher with indium 111 when total body exposure is taken into account (for 111In the whole-body radiation exposure is 0.1 mGy/MBq; for 99mTc it is 0.0047 mGy/MBq). With respect to these results and considering the general availability of the technetium-labelled Ab, it is the best choice for diagnostic use.
Kinetic sensitivity of a receptor-binding radiopharmaceutical: technetium-99m galactosyl-neoglycoalbumin.	Kinetic sensitivity is the ability of a physiochemical parameter to alter the time-activity curve of a radiotracer. The kinetic sensitivity of liver and blood time-activity data resulting from a single bolus injection of [99mTc]galactosyl-neoglycoalbumin [( Tc]NGA) into healthy pigs was examined. Three parameters, hepatic plasma flow scaled as flow per plasma volume, ligand-receptor affinity, and total receptor concentration, were tested using [Tc]NGA injections of various molar doses and affinities. Simultaneous measurements of plasma volume (iodine-125 human serum albumin dilution), and hepatic plasma flow (indocyanine green extraction) were performed during 12 [Tc]NGA studies. Paired data sets demonstrated differences (P(chi v2) less than 0.01) in liver and blood time-activity curves in response to changes in each of the tested parameters. We conclude that the [Tc]NGA radiopharmacokinetic system is therefore sensitive to hepatic plasma flow, ligand-receptor affinity, and receptor concentration. In vivo demonstration of kinetic sensitivity permits delineation of the physiologic parameters that determine the biodistribution of a radiopharmaceutical. This delineation is a prerequisite to a valid analytic assessment of receptor biochemistry via kinetic modeling.
The use of diaminodithiol for labeling small molecules with technetium-99m.	To investigate the labeling of small molecules with 99mTc by the bifunctional chelate approach, we have synthesized both a fatty acid and an estrone derivative containing a chelator of the N2S2 type. In the case of the fatty acid, this was a diaminodithiol (DADT) while for the estrone, a diaminodisulfide (DADS) was attached. The estrone derivative (5-(2-methylene estrone 3-methyl ether)-3,3,10,10-tetramethyl-1,2-dithia-5,8-diazacyclodecane hydrochloride, DADS-E) was prepared by alkylation of DADS while the fatty acid derivative (N-(11-undecanoic acid)-N,N'-bis(2-methyl-2-mercaptopropyl) ethylenediamine hydrochloride, DADT-FA) was synthesized by alkylation of DADS followed by reduction. DADS-E was labeled in ethanol at elevated temperatures while DADT-FA was labeled at room temperature, both by stannous reduction. Paper chromatography showed both to be labeled and reverse-phase HPLC showed multiple peaks for both. Serum stability studies were performed by incubation at 37 degrees C with aliquots removed at 1 min and 1 day for analysis by size-exclusion HPLC. Initially, little pertechnetate or binding to serum proteins was observed whereas after 1 day the majority of activity in both cases was protein bound with 20 and 38% pertechnetate appearing for DADT-FA and DADS-E respectively. In conclusion, small biologically active molecules may be labeled with 99mTc through an attached diaminodithiol or diaminodisulfide group.
In vitro technetium-99m red blood cell labeling using commercial stannous pyrophosphate.	A simple and rapid technique of preparing technetium-99m-labeled erythrocytes using commercial stannous pyrophosphate as the reducing agent was developed. The technique involves incubating red cells with stannous pyrophosphate, centrifugation, and addition of Tc-99m pertechnetate to the red cell fraction. A mean red cell labeling efficiency of 94% was achieved in 10 patient samples and less than 5% in vitro dissolution of Tc-99m red blood cells occurred up to two hours after preparation.
