CDP-870. Celltech/Pfizer.	Celltech Group plc (formerly Celltech Chiroscience), in collaboration with Pfizer Inc (formerly Pharmacia Corp), is developing CDP-870, a polyethylene glycol (PEG)ylated anti-TNF antibody fragment, for the potential treatment of certain autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and Crohn's disease (CD). In October 2002, Pharmacia initiated phase III trials for RA and at this time Celltech anticipated initiating phase III trials for CD in mid-2003.
IL-1 trap. Regeneron/Novartis.	Regeneron and Novartis are co-developing the interleukin (IL)-1 antagonist IL-1 trap for the potential treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In July 2002, a phase II trial was initiated and results are expected mid-2003.
AIC. Dynavax.	Dynavax is developing Amb a 1 immunostimulatory oligodeoxynucleotide-conjugate (AIC) as a potential immunotherapy for ragweed-induced seasonal allergy. By May 2001, phase II/III trials were underway in Canada and the US, and by March 2002, phase II trials were underway in France. In October 2002, Dynavax expected to commence a phase III trial in 2003.
Alefacept. Biogen.	Alefacept is a lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3/IgG1 fusion protein that inhibits T-cells by antagonizing CD2, which has been developed and launched by Biogen for the potential treatment of psoriasis. In February 2003, Biogen launched alefacept in the US for use in adults with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis, and by March 2003, the company was preparing for psoriasis trials to commence in Japan by the end of December 2003.
Quality-by-Design (QbD): An integrated process analytical technology (PAT) approach for a dynamic pharmaceutical co-precipitation process characterization and process design space development.	The aim of this work was to develop an integrated process analytical technology (PAT) approach for a dynamic pharmaceutical co-precipitation process characterization and design space development. A dynamic co-precipitation process by gradually introducing water to the ternary system of naproxen-Eudragit L100-alcohol was monitored at real-time in situ via Lasentec FBRM and PVM. 3D map of count-time-chord length revealed three distinguishable process stages: incubation, transition, and steady-state. The effects of high risk process variables (slurry temperature, stirring rate, and water addition rate) on both derived co-precipitation process rates and final chord-length-distribution were evaluated systematically using a 3(3) full factorial design. Critical process variables were identified via ANOVA for both transition and steady state. General linear models (GLM) were then used for parameter estimation for each critical variable. Clear trends about effects of each critical variable during transition and steady state were found by GLM and were interpreted using fundamental process principles and Nyvlt's transfer model. Neural network models were able to link process variables with response variables at transition and steady state with R(2) of 0.88-0.98. PVM images evidenced nucleation and crystal growth. Contour plots illustrated design space via critical process variables' ranges. It demonstrated the utility of integrated PAT approach for QbD development.
Nanotechnology and therapeutic delivery: a drug regulation perspective.	Nanotechnology is expected to contribute to the therapeutic delivery field in the coming decade. Although the US FDA has multiple guidance documents in place to deal with novel drug products, nanoparticles may produce issues that have not been previously encountered with small drug molecules. This regulatory focus highlights some current guidance documents and thinking of the FDA as applied to nanoparticles used for therapeutic delivery.
