Brainstem gliomas in adults: prognostic factors and classification.	In contrast to childhood brainstem gliomas, adult brainstem gliomas are rare and poorly understood. The charts of 48 adults suffering from brainstem glioma were reviewed in order to determine prognostic factors, evaluate the effect of treatment and propose a classification of these tumours. Mean age at onset was 34 years (range 16-70 years). The main presenting symptoms were gait disturbance (61%), headache (44%), weakness of the limbs (42%) and diplopia (40%). Four patterns were identified on MRI, representing non-enhancing, diffusely infiltrative tumours (50%), contrast-enhancing localized masses (31%), isolated tectal tumours (8%) and other patterns (11%). Treatment consisted of partial resection (8%), radiotherapy (94%) and chemotherapy (56%). Overall median survival was 5.4 years. On univariate analysis, the following favourable prognostic factors were identified (P< 0.01): age of onset <40 years, duration of symptoms before diagnosis >3 months, Karnofski performance status >70, low-grade histology, absence of contrast enhancement and 'necrosis' on MRI. On multivariate analysis, the duration of symptoms, the appearance of 'necrosis' on MRI and the histological grade of the tumour remained significant and independent prognostic factors (P< 0.05). Eighty-five percent of the tumours could be classified into one of the following three groups on the basis of clinical, radiological and histological features. (i) Diffuse intrinsic low-grade gliomas (46%) usually occurred in young adults with a long clinical history before diagnosis and a diffusely enlarged brainstem on MRI that did not show contrast enhancement. These patients were improved by radiotherapy in 62% of cases and had a long survival time (median 7.3 years). Anaplastic transformation (appearance of contrast enhancement, 27%) and relentless growth without other changes (23%) were the main causes of death. (ii) Malignant gliomas (31%) occurred in elderly patients with a short clinical history. Contrast enhancement and necrosis were the rule on MRI. These tumours were highly resistant to treatment and the patients had a median survival time of 11.2 months. (iii) Focal tectal gliomas (8%) occurred in young patients and were often revealed by isolated hydrocephalus. The course was indolent and the projected median survival period exceeded 10 years. In conclusion, adult brainstem gliomas are different from the childhood forms and resemble supratentorial gliomas in adults. Low-grade tumours have a clinicoradiological pattern that is so characteristic that the need for a potentially harmful biopsy is debatable. The optimum timing of treatment for supratentorial low-grade tumours remains unclear. In high-grade gliomas, the prognosis remains extremely poor despite aggressive treatment with radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Selection of surgical approach for quadrigeminal cistern arachnoid cyst]	Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging of 4 cases of quadrigeminal cistern arachnoid cyst were retrospectively reviewed and patterns of extension to surrounding cisterns from the quadrigeminal cistern were examined. Relationship between patterns of extension to surrounding cisterns and selected surgical approach were evaluated. In 2 cases, the cyst extended anteriorly and compressed the quadrigeminal plate. These two cases had hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis. The anteroirly extending cyst was treated with endoscopic ventriculocystocisternostomy via the lateral and third ventricles. In one case, the cyst extended superiorly to the velum interpositum cistern, and was treated with endoscopic ventriculocystocisternostomy via the lateral ventricle. In one case, the cyst extended laterally to the ambient cistern and compressed the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. This case had loculated hydrocephalus of the inferior horn. The laterally extending cyst was treated with resection of the wall of the arachnoid cyst via an infratentorial supracerebellar approach assisted by endoscope. All cysts were successfully treated. Injury of the foramen of Monro occurred during a procedure using a flexible endoscope in a case with an anterior extending cyst. Exact analysis of the preoperative imaging and selection of appropriate surgical approach are key factors for successful treatment of a quadrigeminal cistern arachnoid cyst.
Quadrigeminal cistern and calcarine fissure lipoma: case report and review of the literature]	We report the case of a multiple intracranial lipoma in a 47 year-old patient presenting with headache dizziness and quadrantanopsia. MR imaging revealed the presence of 2 lipomas, one located within the quadrigeminal cistern and the other in the calcarine fissure. To our knowledge, this combination of this rare lesion has not been yet described. We review the current literature.
Germinoma in two brothers: case report.	We present a third reported case of intracranial germinomas occurring in two brothers. They underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy after biopsy and are doing well for 10 years and 20 months, respectively. The pertinent literatures are reviewed, and the possible role of heredity in the pathogenesis of familial occurrence of germinomas is discussed. 
Displacement of the quadrigeminal plate in tumors of the fourth ventricle: MR appearance.	Magnetic resonance studies of 12 fourth ventricle tumors were reviewed. The relationship between the tumor and surrounding structures, such as the corpus medullare, the superior medullary velum, and the quadrigeminal plate, was assessed on midsagittal inversion recovery images. Two of the 12 tumors displaced the superior medullary velum superiorly. Seven of the 12 tumors displaced the corpus medullare posteriorly. The superior medullary velum was not recognized in 10 cases and the corpus medullare in 5. Ten of 12 quadrigeminal plates were displaced superoposteriorly due to focal enlargement of the cerebral aqueduct secondary to large intraventricular tumors. In the remaining two cases the tumor was not large enough to enlarge the cerebral aqueduct. The larger the tumor was, the more frequent was the displacement of the quadrigeminal plate. On T2-weighted images, CSF flow-void sign was seen around the tumor in 5 of 12 cases. We consider superoposterior displacement of the quadrigeminal plate to be a relatively constant and reliable sign accompanying fourth ventricle tumors.
Morphophysiologic indices of the effects of focused ultrasound on the structure of frog brain]	Threshold doses of focused ultrasound necessary for destroying frog brain tissue were determined. Impulsed ultrasound did not destroy the tissue even when its energy exceeded the destroying energy dose of unbroken ultrasound more than twice. Morphological and physiological changes depended more on the time of ultrasound action than on its intensity.
Stereotactic radiosurgery for tectal low-grade gliomas.	We report 7 cases with low-grade gliomas in the tectal region of the midbrain. This series started in 1979 and all tumors were treated by radiosurgery using the Leksell Gamma Knife. All cases were treated by using a single isocenter with the 14 mm collimator. Doses administered ranged from 14 to 35 Gy delivered to the 50-70% isodose line. All tumours but one responded to the treatment and disappeared or ceased growing. In the first two treated cases, the dose was chosen by the early experience from the AVM's, with 30 and 35 Gy as the peripheral dose. These cases developed severe radio-induced oedema with aggravating symptoms and permanent deficits. We conclude that radiosurgery is effective in the treatment of deeply located low-grade gliomas. Cases accepted for treatment should be carefully selected and the peripheral dose should not exceed 14Gy to avoid uncontrolled radio-induced changes.
Changes in the retino-tectal system of the turtle Testudo horsfieldi following enucleation]	Studies have been made on.morpho-functional changes in the optic nerve and midbrain tectum after enucleation of the tortoise T. horsfieldi. It was found that intensive degeneration of terminals which follows "dark" type (3--31/2 months after enucleation) corresponds to degeneration of myelinated fibers. Terminals degenerating accordingly to "light" type (2--3 months) presumably belong to unmyelinated fibers, which degenerate at this period in the nerve. Terminals which follow "vesicular" degeneration, survive up to 6--61/2 months, probably due to survival of some unmyelinated fibers in the nerve. During degeneration of the optic fibers, corresponding changes in amplitude-temporal parameters of the evoked potentials in the midbrain tectum were observed during electrical stimulation of the optic nerve. These changes include the increase of the interval between the stimulus and the peak of both components, as well as the decrease of the amplitude of the responses. These changes were originally observed 11/2--2 months after enucleation, becoming more evident at later stages; 6--61/2 months after enucleation, both components of the evoked potential disappeared almost simultaneously.
Burr hole neuroendoscopic fenestration of quadrigeminal cistern arachnoid cyst: technical case report.	Arachnoid cysts of the quadrigeminal cistern have been managed by cyst shunting and craniotomy with cyst fenestration. Two children are presented who underwent successful burr hole neuroendoscopic fenestration of symptomatic quadrigeminal plate cysts. The literature is reviewed with regard to the treatment of quadrigeminal arachnoid cysts, and the neuroendoscopic management of these cysts is described.
