Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and [3H]WIN 35,428 binding to the dopamine transporter in a hamster model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia.	Recent pharmacological studies and receptor analyses have suggested that dopamine neurotransmission is enhanced in mutant dystonic hamsters (dt(sz)), a model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia which displays attacks of generalized dystonia in response to mild stress. In order to further characterize the nature of dopamine alterations, the present study investigated possible changes in the number of dopaminergic neurons, as defined by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry, as well as binding to the dopamine transporter labelled with [3H]WIN 35,428 in dystonic hamsters. No differences in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were found within the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of mutant hamsters compared to non-dystonic control hamsters. Similarly, under basal conditions, i.e. in the absence of a dystonic episode, no significant changes in [3H]WIN 35,428 binding were detected in dystonic brains. However, in animals killed during the expression of severe dystonia, significant decreases in dopamine transporter binding became evident in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area in comparison to controls exposed to the same external stimulation. Since stimulation tended to increase [3H]WIN 35,428 binding in control brains, the observed decrease in the ventral tegmental area appeared to be due primarily to the fact that binding was increased less in dystonic brains than in similarly stimulated control animals. This finding could reflect a diminished ability of the dopamine transporter to undergo adaptive changes in response to external stressful stimulation in mutant hamsters. The selective dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909 (20 mg/kg) aggravated dystonia in mutant hamsters, further suggesting that acute alterations in dopamine transporter function during stimulation may be an important component of dystonia in this model.
Presynaptic regulation of glutamate release in the ventral tegmental area during morphine withdrawal.	The regulation of glutamate (Glu) release from the excitatory input to dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) during acute withdrawal from morphine was studied in slices from animals treated for 6-7 d with morphine. EPSCs were inhibited by opioid agonists acting at micro-subtype receptors but not by selective delta- or kappa-subtype agonists. The opioid inhibition was reduced by 65% with the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 100 microM) and a 12-lipoxygenase inhibitor, baicalein (5 microM), suggesting that opioids acted via a transduction pathway involving activation of a voltage-dependent potassium conductance by lipoxygenase metabolites as has been shown in the periaqueductal gray (). During withdrawal, neither the potency nor the efficacy of D-Ala-Met-enkephalin-Gly-ol (DAMGO) were changed; however, the blockade of micro-opioid inhibition by both 4-AP and baicalein was reduced. In addition, the potency of baclofen to depress EPSCs by GABA-B receptors and the effects of the GABA-uptake inhibitor NO-711 (10 microM) were increased in withdrawn rats. Finally, group 2 (but not group 4 or 1) metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition was also enhanced in morphine-withdrawn rats. These results suggest that one of the consequences of withdrawal from chronic morphine is an enhanced presynaptic inhibition of the excitatory inputs to the dopamine cells of the VTA. Inhibition of glutamate release during acute withdrawal would add to the inhibition of dopamine cells that is mediated by an augmented release of GABA ().
Retinal lesion by bright artificial light increases vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the rat ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra.	Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with bright light to induce retinal lesions and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra was measured by radioimmunoassay. In Sprague-Dawley rats, but not in Brown Norway rats where light did not induce retinal lesions, significantly increased concentrations of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were found 21 days after exposure with bright light. This increase declined to control values 60 days after the treatment. Our studies indicate that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide may be involved in visual neurotransmission and that the ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra may be connected to retinal input.
Cocaine increases extracellular dopamine in rat nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area as shown by in vivo microdialysis.	In vivo microdialysis measurements of extracellular dopamine (DA) were made simultaneously in nucleus accumbens (NAS) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) in anesthetized rats. Intravenous cocaine (1 mg/kg) resulted in rapid increases in DA in both NAS and VTA. The DA increase in NAS was greater in magnitude and persisted longer than that in VTA. The relevance of the observed effects to reported effects of cocaine on firing rate of mesoaccumbens DA neurons is discussed.
Mesencephalic dopamine cell deficit involves areas A8, A9 and A10 in weaver mutant mice.	The mesencephalic dopamine (DA) cell system was examined in mice homozygous and heterozygous for the weaver (wv) gene and in wild-type controls to estimate the extent of cell losses associated with the genetically determined central DA deficiency observed in weaver homozygotes. Animals of the three genotypes (+/+, wv/+, wv/wv) were studied at postnatal day (P)20 and P90. Serial coronal sections were obtained through the brainstem. Half of the sections were immunolabeled with antiserum to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Cell counts were obtained in areas A8 (retrorubral nucleus, RRN), A9 (substantia nigra, SN), and A10 (ventral tegmental area, VTA). The counts were analyzed with repeated measures analysis of variance followed by individual comparisons among group means. In A8, weaver homozygotes did not differ significantly from wild-type controls at P20, whereas there was a significant difference of 56% at P90. In A9, weaver homozygotes differed significantly from wild-type mice by 42% at P20 and by 69% at P90. The decrease in cell number between P20 and P90 in weaver homozygotes was 54%. In A10, weaver homozygotes did not differ significantly from wild-type controls at P20, whereas there was a significant difference of 26% at P90. Cell numbers in all three areas of heterozygotes did not differ significantly from wild-type control values at either age point. These findings demonstrate that by three months of age homozygous weaver mutants exhibit nerve cell losses in all three areas of the mesencephalic DA cell system. Such losses account for the DA deficiency seen in striatal, limbic and cortical projection fields.
Dopamine autoreceptors in the ventral tegmental area show subsensitivity following withdrawal from chronic antidepressant drug treatment.	The suppression by apomorphine of food intake and eating time was used to assay the sensitivity of dopamine cell body autoreceptors during the course of treatment with DMI, amitriptyline and mianserin. Brief (2-4 days) DMI treatment enhanced the effects of apomorphine, administered systemically or centrally to DA cell body regions. During chronic DMI treatment (3-7 weeks) some evidence of autoreceptor subsensitivity was observed with systemic apomorphine, but not with central apomorphine. Responses to apomorphine applied systemically were reduced during withdrawal from chronic DMI, and responses to apomorphine applied to the ventral tegmental area were reduced during withdrawal from all three antidepressants. As evidence of DA autoreceptor subsensitivity was only observed reliably during withdrawal, this effect is unlikely to be of clinical importance.
Effect of excitotoxin lesions in the medical prefrontal cortex on cortical and subcortical catecholamine turnover in the rat.	Catecholamine turnover in brain areas innervated by dopaminergic neurons was examined 2, 6, and 12 days after bilateral, N-methyl-D-aspartate lesions confined to the rat medial prefrontal cortex. The lesion produced a significant regional increase in the concentration of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine (DA, dopamine) in both the medial prefrontal cortex and the ventral tegmental area. DA concentrations were increased in the nucleus accumbens on day 6 (128% of control), in the ventral tegmental area on day 2 (130% of control), and in the medial prefrontal cortex on days 2 (145% of control) and 6 (127% of control). The only significant changes in the concentration of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) (197% of control), and in the ratio DOPAC/DA (163% of control) were found in the medial prefrontal cortex on day 6 post-lesion. All parameters had returned to control levels by day 12. DA depletion after the administration of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) was not significantly different between excitotoxin-lesioned and sham animals on day 6 in all brain regions. Noradrenaline (NA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethyleneglycol concentrations and their ratios, and the depletion of noradrenaline after AMPT were also determined, and the lesion resulted in a significant regional increase in NA in both the nucleus accumbens and the ventral tegmental area. An elevation of NA (147% of control) in the nucleus accumbens was found on day 12. Since the excitotoxin lesion destroys corticofugal efferents from medial prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens, the anterior corpus striatum and the ventral tegmental area, our results provide no evidence for a role of these cortical projections in the regulation of subcortical DA metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calcitonin gene-related peptide in the ventral tegmental area: selective modulation of prefrontal cortical dopamine metabolism.	The distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the A10 dopamine (DA) cell group region of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the rat was examined using immunohistochemical techniques. CGRP-like immunoreactivity was localized to axons innervating the rostral and dorsal VTA. Direct administration of CGRP to the VTA of the rat resulted in a dose-related increase in DA utilization in the medial prefrontal cortex, but not other mesocortical, mesolimbic, or striatal DA terminal field regions. These data suggest that CGRP may function to selectively modulate the activity of VTA dopaminergic neurons which innervate the prefrontal cortex.
Angiotensin II immunohistochemistry of the rat brain.	Immunoreactive angiotensin II (AII) in rat brain is identified histochemically by the unlabelled antibody-enzyme method. Addition of protease inhibitors, phenylmethyl sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA), to subzero (-10 degrees C) fixation with propylene glycol and formaldehyde provides reproducible preservation of immunoreactive AII. Synaptic boutons within the brainstem and cerebellum contain immunoreactive AII. The deep cerebellar nuclei have the richest density of AII positive synapses. Other nonneuronal cells such as pinealocytes, pituicytes, and 3rd ventricular tanycytes contain immunoreactive AII. This dual AII localization suggests that both neurons and blood vessels may be involved in the transport of AII to sensitive sites within the rat brain.
GABA and enkephalin projection from the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum to the ventral tegmental area.	GABAergic and enkephalinergic afferents to the ventral tegmental area were investigated in the rat using retrograde tracing techniques combined with in situ hybridization. Following iontophoretic deposit of Fluoro-Gold in the ventral tegmental area labeling in the forebrain was most dense in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, rostral ventromedial ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca. A smaller density was also observed in the lateral septum. In these forebrain regions, the portion of retrogradely labeled cells that contained mRNA for glutamate decarboxylase ranged from 25% to 50%, whereas only 5% to 15% were double-labeled for preproenkephalin mRNA. Cells double-labeled with either glutamate decarboxylase or preproenkephalin mRNA were most numerous in the lateral septum, shell of the nucleus accumbens, rostral ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca. Large Fluoro-Gold deposits which invaded the medial substantia nigra resulted in a significant number of retrogradely labeled cells in the core of the nucleus accumbens, and a portion of these neurons also contained mRNA for glutamate decarboxylase or preproenkephalin. These data demonstrate the presence of GABAergic and enkephalinergic neurons projecting from the nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca to the ventral tegmental area.
Activation of the subthalamic nucleus and pedunculopontine tegmentum: does it affect dopamine levels in the substantia nigra, nucleus accumbens and striatum?	Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder, of which the most prominent morphological feature is the progressive loss of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. Increased glutamatergic transmission in the basal ganglia has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study investigated whether death of substantia nigra (SN) dopaminergic neurons could be caused by the hyperactivity of afferent pathways resulting in the release of a toxic dose of excitatory amino acids in the SN. Twice-daily unilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for 21 days, using two different pulse frequencies and current strengths, significantly increased amphetamine-induced rotation, whereas sham stimulated rats showed significantly reduced rotation. Striatal and SN dopamine (DA) levels were unaffected when compared to naïve and sham stimulated rats. However, levels of the DA metabolite, homovanillic acid (HVA), were significantly higher in the ipsilateral anterior striata of rats that had been stimulated at high frequency (100 Hz) and low current (100 microA) as compared to sham treated animals. Stimulation of the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT), using a single kainic acid injection, did not affect DA concentration in the ipsilateral striatum and nucleus accumbens when compared to sham-treated rats. DA levels in the contralateral striatum and nucleus accumbens of lesioned rats were significantly higher than ipsilateral levels. DOPAC/DA ratios were lower in the contralateral striatum and nucleus accumbens, suggesting decreased DA turnover. Glutamic acid decarboxylase activity was significantly higher in the ipsilateral than the contralateral SN. The physical manifestations of PD require a large reduction in caudate and putamen DA levels and no such depletion was measured in this study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of somatodendritic and axon terminal dopamine release in the ventral tegmental area and the nucleus accumbens.	Fast cyclic voltammetry at a carbon fibre microelectrode was used to measure dopamine release following electrical or chemical stimulation in rat brain slices incorporating either the ventral tegmental area or the core region of the nucleus accumbens. Electrical or chemical stimulation gave clear voltammetric signals which corresponded to dopamine; less dopamine was released in the ventral tegmental area than in the nucleus accumbens. In contrast to the nucleus accumbens, electrically stimulated dopamine release in the ventral tegmental area was not sensitive to tetrodotoxin, was not modified by the presence of dopamine uptake inhibitors, or agonist or blockers acting at dopamine D2 autoreceptors.
