Oculomotor nucleus afferents in the monkey demonstrated with horseradish peroxidase.	The afferents to the oculomotor nucleus were examined in the macaque monkey by means of horseradish peroxidase. The demonstration of afferents from the contralateral interstitial nucleus of Cajal, and from the nearby rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus, predominantly ipsilateral to the injection site, confirms the significant role of these two regions as premotor structures. HRP label in the pretectal area was strictly confined to the olivary nucleus and the corresponding pathway seems to concern the Edinger-Westphal nucleus in particular. A purely crossed internuclear pathway emanating from the abducens nucleus could be established, and evidence for the presence of intranuclear connections within the oculomotor complex itself was found. Ipsilateral afferents from the superior vestibular nucleus and bilateral connections from the medial vestibular nucleus and the y-group were prominent. A projection, showing some rostrocaudal organization within the oculomotor nucleus, arises from the ipsilateral perihypoglossal complex, and other afferents originated from the underlying medullary reticular formation. No evidence was found for the existence of afferents from the paramedian pontine reticular formation, the nucleus Darkschewitsch, the nuclei of the posterior commissure, the lateral tegmentum and the dentate nucleus.
An autoradiographic study of the rubroolivary tract in the rhesus monkey.	Autoradiographic tracing methods were employed to study the course and distribution of the rubroolivary tract following unilateral injections of tritiated leucine into the rostral red nucleus of seven rhesus monkeys. A topographic organization of projections to the ipsilateral principal nucleus of the inferior olivary complex was demonstrated. Lateral and medial portions of the rostral red nucleus projected to medial parts of the dorsal and ventral laminae of the principal inferior olive respectively; neurons in intermediate lateralities emitted fibers which terminated in lateral parts of the principal olive. Injections involving the oral end of the rostral red nucleus elicited label overlying the medial accessory olive in addition to the principal nucleus. Projections to the medial accessory olive may have arisen from the rostral end of the red nucleus and/or the immediately adjacent tegmentum. There were no projections to the dorsal accessory olive. Fibers of rubral origin also were distributed ipsilaterally to several reticular nuclei including the pedunculopontine, pontis oralis, caudalis, and gigantocellularis.
Cardiovascular responses to chemical stimulation of the lateral tegmental field and adjacent medullary reticular formation in the rat.	Relatively few studies have been done to characterize cardiovascular responses to the chemical stimulation of sites located in the medullary lateral tegmental field (LTF) and most of them have been carried out in anesthetized animals. Our experiments were carried out in decerebrated, artificially ventilated, adult male Wistar rats. In the LTF, two types of cardiovascular responses were elicited. One type consisted of pressor responses accompanied by bradycardia. Such responses were elicited from a region 0.4 mm caudal to 0.8 mm rostral to the calamus scriptorius (CS); maximum responses were elicited from a site 0.6 mm rostral to the CS, 1.2 mm lateral to the midline and 1.2 mm deep from the dorsal medullary surface. Another type consisted of pressor responses without any change in heart rate; such responses were elicited from a region 1-1.6 mm rostral to the CS. Nucleus ambiguus (nAmb) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (nDMX) and the reticular formation surrounding these areas were the main sites from which bradycardia (accompanied by either no or small changes in BP) was elicited. In the nAmb, maximum bradycardia was elicited from a site 0.6 mm rostral to the CS, 1.8 mm lateral to the midline and 2.4 mm deep from the dorsal medullary surface. In the nDMX, most prominent bradycardic responses were elicited at 0-0.6 mm rostral to the CS, and 0.6 mm lateral to the midline and 1 mm deep from the dorsal medullary surface. Cardiovascular effects elicited from sites in other well-known areas, such as the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor area (RVLM) and caudal ventrolateral medullary depressor area (CVLM), and the nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS) were also included for comparison of different responses. These results are expected to prove useful in studies in which the microinjection technique is used to characterize cardiovascular responses.
Contribution of an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtype to the expression of the "ventral tegmental area syndrome".	Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the rat ventral tegmental area, a mesencephalic structure containing the cell bodies of ascending dopaminergic neurons, induce a behavioural syndrome characterized by a permanent locomotor hyperactivity. Acute intraperitoneal injections of prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, at a dose (0.5 mg/kg) which does not affect locomotor activities of control animals, abolished locomotor hyperactivities of lesioned rats. Antagonists of other monoaminergic receptors (propranolol, ritanserin, yohimbine), and also another antagonist of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, 2-(2',6'-dimenthoxyphenoxyethyl)-aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxan (WB4101) were ineffective. Comparisons of autoradiograms of brain slices incubated in the presence of 1 nM [3H]prazosin or 10 nM [3H]WB4101 indicated clear topographical differences. [3H]Prazosin labelling is present in the septum and in layer III of the cerebral cortex but absent in the striatum. [3H]WB 4101 labelling is diffuse in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex and present in the striatum. In addition, intraperitoneal injection of WB4101 displaces, only weakly, [3H]prazosin binding in layer III of the cerebral cortex (-18%) while it decreases by 50% [3H]prazosin binding in the more superficial cortical layers. These observations strongly suggest that the binding site labelled by [3H]prazosin is different from alpha 1A- and alpha 1B-adrenergic receptor subtypes labelled by [3H]WB4101. Finally, it is proposed that the prazosin-induced blockade of the locomotor hyperactivity exhibited by ventral tegmental area lesioned animals is linked to the previously demonstrated regulatory role of noradrenergic neurons on cortical dopamine transmission.
The dorsal, posterodorsal, and ventral tegmental nuclei: a cyto- and chemoarchitectonic study in the human.	In order to verify the existence of the ventral and posterodorsal tegmental nuclei and to extend previous findings regarding the dorsal tegmental nucleus in the human brainstem, studies were conducted using cyto- and chemoarchitectonics, and computer reconstruction techniques. Serial sections of five brainstems from adults with no known neurological disorders were stained for Nissl substance, acetylcholinesterase, and substance P. The topography, cytoarchitecture, and acetylcholinesterase reactivity of the tegmental nuclei were presented in a mini-atlas depicting sections cut in transverse and sagittal planes. The dorsal and posterodorsal tegmental nuclei were identified fully within the central grey matter while the ventral tegmental nucleus extended across the medial longitudinal fasciculus into the pontine reticular formation. The dorsal tegmental nucleus featured a cell-poor pericentral part, strongly positive for acetylcholinesterase, and a central part comprised of densely packed small neurons that displayed moderate acetylcholinesterase reactivity and strong substance P-like immunoreactivity. The posterodorsal tegmental nucleus, located in the same transverse plane as the rostral part of the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, was composed of diffusely arranged small to medium neurons with its neuropil displaying moderate acetylcholinesterase reactivity and strong substance P-like immunoreactivity. The ventral tegmental nucleus, identified as a prominent structure in the pontine tegmentum immediately rostral to the genu of the facial nerve, contained predominantly large neurons and displayed intensive acetylcholinesterase reactivity and substance P-like immunoreactivity. These studies showed that the tegmental nuclei, which displayed distinctive cyto- and chemoarchitectonic features, were fully present in adult human brainstem.
Olivary projection from the rostral part of the nucleus of Darkschewitsch in the postnatal rat as revealed through the use of a carbocyanine dye.	Using a carbocyanine dye in postnatal rats, we have shown that the rostral part of the nucleus of Darkschewitsch (ND), consisting of a subnucleus of the so-called "area parafascicularlis prerubralis " and excluded from the rat's ND proper, projects ipsilaterally to the rostral part of the medial accessory olive. The present study suggests the existence of a precise topographic organization from subnuclei of the area parafascicularlis prerublaris to subnuclei of the inferior olive.
Three-dimensional eye-head coordination after injection of muscimol into the interstitial nucleus of Cajal (INC).	The interstitial nucleus of Cajal (INC) is thought to be the "neural integrator" for torsional/vertical eye position and head posture. Here, we investigated the coordination of eye and head movements after reversible INC inactivation. Three-dimensional (3-D) eye-head movements were recorded in three head-unrestrained monkeys using search coils. INC sites were identified by unit recording/electrical stimulation and then reversibly inactivated by 0.3 mul of 0.05% muscimol injection into 26 INC sites. After muscimol injection, the eye and head 1) began to drift (an inability to maintain stable fixation) torsionally: clockwise (CW)/counterclockwise (CCW) after left/right INC inactivation respectively. 2) The eye and head tilted torsionally CW/CCW after left/right INC inactivation, respectively. Horizontal gaze/head drifts were inconsistently present and did not result in considerable position offsets. Vertical eye drift was dependent on both vertical eye position and the magnitude of the previous vertical saccade, as in head-fixed condition. This correlation was smaller for gaze and head drift, suggesting that the gaze and head deficits could not be explained by a first-order integrator model. Ocular counterroll (OC) was completely disrupted. The gain of torsional vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) during spontaneous eye and head movements was reduced by 22% in both CW/CCW directions after either left or right INC inactivation. Our results suggest a complex interdependence of eye and head deficits after INC inactivation during fixation, gaze shifts, and VOR. Some of our results resemble the symptoms of spasmodic torticollis (ST).
Lateral habenula and the rostromedial tegmental nucleus innervate neurochemically distinct subdivisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus in the rat.	The lateral habenula (LHb) is an epithalamic structure differentiated in a medial (LHbM) and a lateral division (LHbL). Together with the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), the LHb has been implicated in the processing of aversive stimuli and inhibitory control of monoamine nuclei. The inhibitory LHb influence on midbrain dopamine neurons has been shown to be mainly mediated by the RMTg, a mostly GABAergic nucleus that receives a dominant input from the LHbL. Interestingly, the RMTg also projects to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), which also receives direct LHb projections. To compare the organization and transmitter phenotype of LHb projections to the DR, direct and indirect via the RMTg, we first placed injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the LHb or the RMTg. We then confirmed our findings by retrograde tracing and investigated a possible GABAergic phenotype of DR-projecting RMTg neurons by combining retrograde tracing with in situ hybridization for GAD67. We found only moderate direct LHb projections to the DR, which mainly emerged from the LHbM and were predominantly directed to the serotonin-rich caudal DR. In contrast, RMTg projections to the DR were more robust, emerged from RMTg neurons enriched in GAD67 mRNA, and were focally directed to a distinctive DR subdivision immunohistochemically characterized as poor in serotonin and enriched in presumptive glutamatergic neurons. Thus, besides its well-acknowledged role as a GABAergic control center for the ventral tegmental area (VTA)-nigra complex, our findings indicate that the RMTg is also a major GABAergic relay between the LHb and the DR.
Ventromedial mesencephalic tegmental (VMT) projections to ten functionally different cortical areas in the cat: topography and quantitative analysis.	The cortical projections of the ventromedial mesencephalic tegmentum (VMT) were studied in the cat by the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated HRP (WGA-HRP). The following cortical regions were injected: prefrontal, cingulate, motor, somatic sensory, auditory, primary visual, secondary visual, parasplenial, insular, and entorhinal. Labelled cells in the five component nuclei of the VMT (rostral linear, parabrachial pigmented, central linear, interfascicular, and paranigral nuclei) were counted and the numbers correlated with the total cell populations of the nuclei. In all experiments large numbers of cells were labelled in the VMT, particularly in the rostral linear and parabrachial pigmented nuclei. Following entorhinal cortical injections, significant labelling occurred in the interfascicular and central linear nucleus, although some cells of these nuclei were labelled in every experiment. The cells of the paranigral nucleus remained unlabelled in all experiments. Several hundred VMT cells were labelled in most experiments, over 1000 in the case of the parasplenial and over 2000 in the case of prefrontal injections. The most strongly labelled nucleus was the rostral linear, in which up to 36% of the total cell population could be labelled in a single experiment. These results indicate that the VMT of the cat is a major source of brainstem projections to the cerebral cortex and that all cortical areas are reached by this system. Although the projections to the prefrontal and limbic cortical areas are particularly prominent, there appears to be a consistent and significant projection to all areas. Further, the projection of the VMT to the cortex is topographically organized, indicating that the functional roles of the component nuclei of the VMT may be substantially different.
Demonstration of a sparse direct projection from the interstitial nucleus of Cajal to the cerebellum in the cat.	In the cat the possible contribution of cerebellar afferents from the accessory oculomotor nuclei was investigated by means of retrograde transport of the wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase complex. A sparse bilateral projection from the interstitial nucleus of Cajal was demonstrated. The fibres reach cerebellar cortical as well as nuclear regions. No retrogradely labelled cells were found in the nucleus of Darkschewitsch and the nucleus of the posterior commissure.
Anatomical evidence for a strong ventral parabrachial projection to nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent tegmental field.	Injections with [3H]leucine in the ventral parabrachial nuclei and nucleus Kölliker-Fuse of the cat revealed strong projections to the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) and adjacent tegmentum, while similar injections in the adjacent nucleus subcoeruleus produced diffuse projections to large parts of the tegmentum, but not specifically to the NRM. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) injections in the area of the NRM and adjacent tegmentum demonstrated many labeled neurons in the ventral parabrachial nuclei, nucleus Kölliker-Fuse and nucleus subcoeruleus. These results suggest that the inhibition of nociception induced by stimulation in the ventral parabrachial nuclei may be based on the projections of this area to NRM and adjacent tegmentum.
Frontal eye field efferents in the macaque monkey: II. Topography of terminal fields in midbrain and pons.	Frontal eye field (FEF) projections to the midbrain and pons were studied in nine macaque monkeys that were used to study FEF projections to the striatum and thalamus (Stanton et al.: J. Comp. Neurol. 271:473-492, '88). Injections of tritiated amino acids or WGA-HRP were made into FEF cortical locations where low-level microstimulation (less than or equal to 50 microA) elicited saccadic eye movements, and anterograde axonal labeling was mapped. The injections were made into the anterior bank of the arcuate sulcus from dorsomedial sites where large saccades were evoked (lFEF) to ventrolateral sites where small saccades were evoked (sFEF). The largest terminal fields of FEF fibers were located in the ipsilateral superior colliculus (SC). Projections to SC were topographically organized: lFEF sites projected to intermediate and deep layers of caudal SC, sFEF sites projected to intermediate and superficial layers of rostral SC, and FEF sites between these extremes projected to intermediate locations in SC. Patches of terminal labeling were located ipsilaterally in the lateral mesencephalic reticular formation near the parabigeminal nucleus and the ventrolateral pontine reticular formation. These patches were larger from lFEF injections. Small, dense terminal patches were seen in the ipsilateral pontine gray, mostly along the medial and dorsal borders of these nuclei but occasionally in central and dorsolateral regions. Patches of label like those in the pontine nuclei were located ipsilaterally in the reticularis tegmenti pontis nucleus in lFEF cases and bilaterally in sFEF cases. Small terminal patches were found in the nucleus of Darkschewitsch and dorsal and medial parts of the parvicellular red nucleus in most FEF cases. In the pretectal region, labeled terminal patches were consistently found in the nucleus limitans of the posterior thalamus, but we could not determine if label in the nucleus of the pretectal area and dorsal parts of the nucleus of the posterior commissure marked axon terminals or fibers of passage. We found small, lightly labeled terminal patches in the pontine raphe between the rootlets of the abducens nerve (three cases) or in the adjacent paramedian pontine reticular formation (one case). Omnipauser cells in this region are important in initiating saccades. In one sFEF case, very small patches of label were located in the supragenual nuclei anterior to the abducens nuclei and in the ipsilateral nucleus prepositus hypoglossi posterior to the abducens nucleus. Presaccadic burster neurons in the periabducens region are known to fire immediately before horizontal saccades.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nucleus sagulum: projections of a lateral tegmental area to the inferior colliculus in the cat.	The nucleus sagulum, an area of the midbrain tegmentum, has been considered a component of a lateral tegmental system within the ascending auditory pathway to the thalamus. In this study, connections of the nucleus sagulum within the midbrain were investigated in adult cats. Tracing methods using anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of markers were employed. The nucleus sagulum was identified as a region of principally small neurons (261 +/- 79 micron2) at the margin of the midbrain and neighboring the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus. Injections of tritiated leucine in the nucleus sagulum labeled axons that ended in dense patches within the superficial layers of the caudal portion of the dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus on the ipsilateral side. Retrograde experiments confirmed this connection. Other axonal projections labeled in the anterograde studies included fibers ending in the dorsomedial nucleus, the superficial layers of the dorsal cortex, and the rostral nucleus of the inferior colliculus with some bilateral distribution. Outside of the inferior colliculus, sagulum injections labeled other axons ending in the ventral intercollicular tegmentum on both sides and in a dorsal and rostral region of the contralateral nucleus sagulum that appeared contiguous with the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. The latter region included a population of larger neurons (340-540 micron2) and had different connections with the inferior colliculus. The distribution of axonal labeling after injections in the nucleus sagulum was contrasted with the distribution of projections from several neighboring areas of the lateral tegmentum, including the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. None of these areas exhibited connections with the superficial layers of the caudal cortex of the inferior colliculus, which was the major target in the inferior colliculus of the nucleus sagulum. Thus, the results indicated that the nucleus sagulum is distinguished from adjacent regions of the lateral tegmentum by its connectivity. Its association with midbrain auditory pathways is supported by these connections as well as ascending ones to the auditory thalamus.
Mamillary body in the rat: topography and synaptology of projections from the subicular complex, prefrontal cortex, and midbrain tegmentum.	The retrograde and anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-HRP) has been used to trace afferent connections of the rat mamillary body (MB) at the light and electron microscopic levels. Injections of WGA-HRP into different parts of the MB resulted in heavy retrograde labeling in the subicular complex, medial prefrontal cortex, and dorsal and ventral tegmental nuclei. Injections of WGA-HRP into each of these brain regions, respectively, resulted in anterograde labeling with specific distributions and characteristic synaptic organizations in the MB. Projections from the rostrodorsal and caudoventral subiculum terminated in a topographically organized laminar fashion in the medial mamillary nucleus bilaterally, whereas afferent projections from the presubiculum and parasubiculum terminated only in the lateral mamillary nucleus. Labeled axon terminals which originated from the subicular complex were characterized by round vesicles and formed asymmetric synaptic junctions with small-diameter dendrites and dendritic spines in the medial and lateral mamillary nuclei. Projections from the prefrontal cortex originated mainly in the infralimbic area and to a lesser degree in the prelimbic and anterior cingulate areas. Injections of tracer into these brain regions gave rise to dense labeling of axon terminals in the medial mamillary nucleus, pars medianus, and in the anterior dorsomedial portion of the pars medialis. The labeled terminals were characterized by round vesicles and formed asymmetric synaptic junctions with small-diameter dendrites and dendritic spines. Projections from the dorsal tegmental nucleus terminated in the ipsilateral lateral mamillary nucleus, whereas afferent projections from the anterior and posterior subnuclei of the ventral tegmental nucleus terminated topographically in the medial mamillary nucleus. The ventral tegmental nucleus, pars anterior projected to the midline region of the medial nucleus and the dorsolateral and ventromedial subdivisions of the pars posterior projected to medial and lateral parts of the medial nucleus, respectively. In contrast to the synaptic morphology of subicular complex and medial prefrontal cortex axon terminals in the MB, labeled axon terminals in the MB which originated from the midbrain tegmentum were characterized by pleomorphic vesicles and formed symmetric synaptic junctions with neuronal somata and proximal dendrites as well as distal dendrites and dendritic spines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Topographic projections between the nucleus isthmi and the tectum of the frog Rana pipiens.	The connections between the nucleus isthmi and the tectum in the frog have been determined by several anatomical techniques: iontophoresis of horseradish peroxidase into the tectum, iontophoresis of 3H-porline into the nucleus isthmi and the tectum, and Fink-Heimer degeneration staining after lesions of the nucleus isthmi. The results show that the nucleus isthmi projects bilaterally to the tectal lobes. The ipsilateral isthmio-tectal fibers are distributed in the superficial layers of the tectum, coincident with the retionotectal terminals. The contralateral isthmio-tectal fibers travel anteriorly adjacent to the lateral optic tract and cross the midline in the supraoptic ventral decussation, where they turn dorsally and caudally; upon reaching the tectum, the fibers end in two discrete layers, layers 8 and A of Potter. The tectum projects to the ipsilateral nucleus isthmi and there is a reciprocal topographic relationship between the two structures. Thus, a retino-tecto-isthmio-tectal route exists which may contribute to the indirect ipsilateral retinotectal projection which is observed electrophysiologically. The connections between the nucleus isthmi and the tectum in the frog are strinkingly similar to the connections between the parabigeminal nucleus and the superior colliculus of mammals.
Ventral tegmental (A10) system: neurobiology. 1. Anatomy and connectivity.	The VTA contains the A10 group of DA containing neurons. These neurons have been grouped into nuclei to be found on the floor of the midbrain tegmentum--Npn, Nif, Npbp and Nln rostralis and caudalis. The VTA is traversed by many blood vessels and nerve fibers. Close to its poorly defined borders are found DA (A8, A9, A11) and 5-HT containing neurons (B8). Efferent projections of the VTA can be divided into 5 subsystems. The mesorhombencephalic projects to other monoaminergic nuclei, the cerebellum and a fine projection descends to other tegmental nuclei as far as the inferior olive. Fibers to the spinal cord have not been demonstrated. The mesodiencephalic path projects to several thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei and possibly the median eminence. Functionally important examples are the anterior hypothalamic-preoptic area, N. medialis dorsalis and reuniens thalami. These two subsystems are largely non-dopaminergic. A minor mesostriatal projection is overshadowed by the large mesolimbic projection to the accumbens, tuberculum olfactorium, septum lateralis and n. interstitialis stria terminalis. There are also mesolimbic connections with several amygdaloid nuclei (especially centralis and basolateralis), the olfactory nuclei and entorhinal cortex. A minor projection to the hippocampus has been detected. The mesocortical pathway projects to sensory (e.g. visual), motor, limbic (e.g. retrosplenial) and polysensory association cortices (e.g. prefrontal). Prefrontal, orbitofrontal (insular) and cingulate cortices receive the most marked innervation from the VTA. A more widespread presence of DA in other cortices of rodents becomes progressively more evident in carnivores and primates. Most but not all projections are unilateral. Some neurons project to more than one area in mesodiencephalic, limbic and cortical systems. The majority of these fibers ascend in the MFB. Most areas receiving a projection from the VTA (DA or non-DA) project back to the VTA. The septohippocampal complex in particular and the limbic system in general provide quantitatively much less feedback than other areas. The role of the VTA as a mediator of dialogue with the frontostriatal and limbic/extrapyramidal system is discussed under the theme of circuit systems. The large convergence of afferents to certain VTA projection areas (prefrontal, entorhinal cortices, lateral septum, central amygdala, habenula and accumbens) is discussed under the theme of convergence systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The crossed nigrostriatal projection decussates in the ventral tegmental decussation.	Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) tract-tracing techniques were used in 44 rats in order to establish the site of decussation of the crossed nigrostriatal projection. Somata in both the ipsilateral and the contralateral ventromedial mesencephalon were labelled after injection of HRP into the caudate nucleus. In agreement with previous studies, contralateral labelling constituted about 3% of the ipsilateral labelling. Midsagittal transection of the mesodiencephalic junction did not prevent the contralateral labelling. However, mid-sagittal transection of the ventral mesencephalon, or selective 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the ventral tegmental decussation did prevent the contralateral labelling. Moreover, 6-OHDA lesions of the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the horseradish peroxidase injection also prevented contralateral labelling. We conclude that the crossed nigrostriatal projection decussates in the ventral tegmental decussation, and that this projection is susceptible to damage by standard 6-OHDA lesions located on the opposite side to the origin of the crossed pathway.
An EM and Golgi study on the connection between the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus and the pars compacta of the substantia nigra in the rat.	The present study provides evidence of a synaptic contact between terminals of pedunculopontine neurons and cells of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNPC) in the rat. Three types of projective neurons observed in Golgi stained preparations of the pedunculopontine region might be the source of this afferent pathway to the substantia nigra. These PPN projective neurons were small, medium and large sized cells. After placing a small electrolytic lesion into the pedunculopontine area two types of degenerated terminals were found in the SNPC, a small and a larger one. These degenerated terminals contained round synaptic vesicles, thus suggesting that the pedunculopontine input to the SNPC is monosynaptic and excitatory in nature.
The connections of the peripeduncular area studied by retrograde and anterograde transport in the rat.	Lying just ventral to the medial geniculate nucleus and dorsal to the cerebral peduncle, the peripeduncular area (PPA) seems to be implicated in the expression of several sexual reflexes in rodents. The aim of the present investigation was to establish the organization of the afferent and efferent projections of the rat's PPA in an attempt to provide a neural substrate corresponding to the behavioral observations. Based on both retrograde and anterograde transport methods, our results suggest that the PPA: receives its main afferent projections from the insulotemporal cortex, basal ganglia, ventromedial and posterior hypothalamic nuclei, zona incerta, inferior colliculus, intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus, central gray, cuneiform nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus and, projects essentially to the basal ganglia, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, central gray, cuneiform and pedunculopontine nuclei, deep layers of the superior colliculus, inferior colliculus, and dorsal and ventral nuclei of the lateral lemniscus. These findings, indicating that the PPA is connected with the auditory, motor, and limbic systems and with nonspecific diencephalic and mesencephalic centers, are in agreement with the notion that in rodents this area might play a role in the female sexual receptivity (as expressed by lordosis display or ultrasound production) or male mounting behavior.
Cholinergic projections in the telencephalo-habenulo-interpeduncular system of the goldfish.	Experiments were performed in order to see whether acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter in the telencephalo-habenulo-interpeduncular system of the goldfish. After telencephalic ablation choline acetyltransferase decreased by 53% in the habenular nuclei but was unchanged in the interpeduncular nucleus. After combined telencephalic and habenular lesions, the enzyme level dropped by 95% in the interpeduncular nucleus. These results suggest the existence of a telencephalo-habenular and a habenulo-interpeduncular cholinergic projection in the goldfish, as previously demonstrated in mammals. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry additionally demonstrates some similarities between the habenulae and the interpeduncular nucleus in the goldfish and in mammals.
Lesions of the posterior septum or of the habenula decrease [3H]hemicholinium-3 binding (as measured by autoradiography) in the interpeduncular nucleus of the rat.	The effects of a bilateral electrolytic lesion of the posterior septum or of the habenula (lateral and medial parts) on [3H]hemicholinium-3 binding sites in the interpeduncular nucleus of the rat were studied through the use of quantitative autoradiography. Lesions of the habenular nuclei or of the posterior septum decreased [3H]hemicholinium-3 binding in the interpeduncular nucleus by 93 and 31%, respectively. These results add further support to the view that the habenula and posterior septum are the major sources of the cholinergic innervation of the interpeduncular nucleus in the rat.
Organization of ventral tegmental area cells projecting to the occipital cortex and forebrain in the rat.	Our horseradish peroxidase retrograde tracing study revealed a specific subpopulation of ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons that send axons to the occipital cortex in the rat. A fluorescent retrograde tracing study demonstrated that neuronal populations in the VTA projecting to the occipital cortex are distributed in a manner separate from those projecting to forebrain structures such as the frontal/anterior cingulate cortices and nucleus accumbens. The scarcity of collateral projections from the VTA contrasts with the extensive collateralization of projection neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Projections to the occipital cortex may define the distribution of cells comprising the VTA and thus the clear hodological separation of the A9 and A10 dopamine cell groups.
Anatomical and physiological observations on supraspinal control of bladder and urethral sphincter muscles in the cat.	In 15 cats injections of 3H-leucine were made in the pontine tegmentum. Injections in the medial part of the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum (M-region) resulted in specific projections to the sacral intermediomedial and intermediolateral cell groups. The intermediolateral cell group contains preganglionic parasympathetic neurons that form the motor supply of the detrusor muscle of the bladder. Injections in the lateral part of the pontine tegmental field (L-region) produced labeled fibers in the nucleus of Onuf, which contains motoneurons innervating the pelvic floor including the anal and urethral sphincters. L-region projections to the sacral preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and M-region projections to the nucleus of Onuf were very limited or absent. In 12 cats physiological experiments were performed. Electrical stimulation in the L-region elicited a prompt increase in the pelvic floor EMG and urethral pressure but had little influence on the intravesical pressure. Stimulation in the M-region elicited a prompt decrease in the pelvic floor EMG and urethral pressure followed, after a delay of 2 seconds, by an increase in the intravesical pressure, so simulating normal micturition.
An autoradiographic study of midbrain-diencephalic projections to the inferior olivary nucleus in the opossum (Didelphis virginiana).	Techniques of intra-axonal transport were utlizied to elucidate the organization of diencephalic and midbrain projections to the inferior olivary nucleus of the Virginia opossum. Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase injected into the olive suggests that terminals within it arise from the subparafascicular nucleus of the caudal thalamus, the nucleus of Darkschewitsch, the fields of Forel, the interstitial nucleus of Cajal, the periaqueductal grey, the caudal pretectal nucleus, the tegmentum dorsomedial to the red nucleus, the red nucleus (minimal), the nucleus linearis, as well as the dorsolateral midbrain tegmentum and tectum (Henkel et al., '75). Tritiated leucine injections were made into each of the above-mentioned cell groups so that the olivary terminals of their axons could be demonstrated autoradiographically. In general, the projection systems show three basic patterns of organization. Ventromedial areas of the midbrain, including the ventral periaqueductal grey, the interstitial nucleus of Cajal, part of the red nucleus and the tegmentum dorso-medial to it, provide a substantial and topographically organized projection to the principal nucleus of the olive, as well as minor inputs to the accessory nuclei. Secondly, neurons within the subparafascicular nucleus, the nucleus of Darkschewitsch and the fields of Forel project most heavily to parts of the medial accessory nucleus, although they also provide input to the other major subdivisions of the olive. Third, axons from the dorsolateral tegmentum and tectum completely avoid the principal nucleus, while supplying small regions of the accessory nuclei.
Afferents to brain stem nuclei (brain stem raphe, nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis and nucleus gigantocellularis) in the rat as demonstrated by microiontophoretically applied horseradish peroxidase.	Using a retrograde tracer technique with microiontophoretically applied horseradish peroxidase (HRP), afferent projections to the brain stem raphe nuclei (BR, raphe magnus, pallidus and obscurus) and to two adjacent reticular nuclei, nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis (nRPC) and nucleus gigantocellularis (nGC) were identified. The most striking difference between the afferent projections to the BR and the adjacent nuclei as determined by this method is that afferents to the BR originate primarily from structures rostral to the pons, especially the mesencephalic central gray and the dorsal and ventral tegmentum. In contrast, the two reticular nuclei studied (nGC and nRPC) received afferent projections within or caudal to the pons-medulla. For example, the nGC receives prominent afferent projections from the gray matter of the spinal cord. In addition, evidence for interconnections between all of the adjacent nuclei (BR, nGC and nRPC) was found. Such afferent projections are compatible with the notion that the brain stem raphe nuclei may serve as connections within the brain stem for a descending system, while the nGC may be a relay in a feedback loop between the spinal cord and the reticular formation.
Autoradiographic labeling of the cholinergic habenulo-interpeduncular projection.	The transmitter-specific autoradiographic method has been used to retrogradely trace the habenulo-interpeduncular cholinergic projection. [3H]Choline injection in the interpeduncular nucleus resulted in remarkable labeling of the fasciculus retroflexus and in very strong accumulation of silver grains in the medial habenula. Brainstem nuclei sending non-cholinergic projections to the interpeduncular nucleus were not labeled. The present findings strongly support the notion of a cholinergic medial habenula-interpeduncular nucleus projection in agreement with recent immunohistochemical evidence, but in contrast to previous immunocytochemical and pharmacohistochemical results.
Afferents from limbic system-related regions to the frontal cortex in the bush baby (Galago senegalensis).	Afferents from limbic system-related structures (aside from the cingulate and retrosplenial cortex) to medial and lateral regions of the bush baby's frontal cortex were investigated by means of the somatopetal transport of horseradish peroxidase. The frontopolar region received afferents from the subicular cortex, the lateral nucleus of the amygdala, from hypothalamic nuclei, the ventral tegmental area and other brain stem nuclei. Injections of horseradish peroxidase into other frontal regions usually resulted in labeled cells in brain stem nuclei and in the hypothalamus, but not in telencephalic regions; only the large injection into the posterior part of the frontal cortex was followed by labeled amygdaloid neurons. From these results it is concluded that a small number of limbic system-related telecephalic areas projects to the frontal cortex and that a somewhat larger number of diencephalic and brain stem nuclei reaches this part of the cortex.
The pattern of termination of ventral tegmental afferents into nucleus accumbens: an anterograde HRP analysis.	The input pattern from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens was examined using the anterograde transport of HRP. Following an injection of HRP into the VTA, marked heterogeneity was seen in accumbens especially in caudal regions. Here, the terminals were restricted for most part in the dorsal portions of accumbens. In rostral accumbens, the pattern was more uniform across accumbens. Glyoxylic acid induced histofluorescence supported these findings. The present results demonstrate considerable complexity in the rostral-caudal termination pattern of A10 afferent within the nucleus accumbens.
Connections of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus in the tree shrew. II. Efferent connections.	[35S]Methionine was injected into the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus of 5 adult tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri) and into the medioventral thalamic nucleus in another tree shrew. Three animals survived for 44 h and three others for two weeks (including the animal with the injection in the medioventral nucleus). Contact autoradiograms were made on an X-ray film. The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus was found to project ipsilaterally to all surfaces of the frontal pole of the cerebral cortex. No other projections of this nucleus have been established. Also in this species, the medioventral nucleus projects to the first layer of the entire neocortex ipsilaterally and to the mesencephalic tegmentum.
The rubrospinal and central tegmental tracts in man.	Ten cases are presented which illustrate aspects of the anatomy of the rubrospinal and central tegmental tracts in man. It is concluded that the number of large fibres arising from the magnocellular part of the red nucleus and constituting the classical rubrospinal tract is small and that only a few fibres project into the spinal cord; these cannot usually be traced caudal to the upper cervical segments. There is a very large number of rubro-olivary fibres arising from the parvocellular part of the red nucleus, which run in the central tegmental tract. This tract also contains descending fibres that do not originate in the red nucleus and fibres that do not terminate in the olive. The literature on the rubrospinal tract and the rubro-olivary component of the central tegmental tract in primates in reviewed. Comparative anatomical studies are also briefly reviewed; they accord with the findings reported here for man.
The origin of the spinomesencephalic tract in the rat: an anatomical study using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase.	An anatomical technique based on the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was used to investigate the projections of spinal cord neurons to the mesencephalic tegmentum in the rat. Restricted unilateral injections were confined to central grey, cuneiformis areas, and superior colliculus. Injections into all these loci produced labeling in similar spinal areas. Only quantitative differences were noted. In the spinal grey matter, numerous labeled cells were regularly encountered in the marginal zone, the lateral part of the neck of the dorsal horn, and the dorsal grey commissure. Projections from the marginal zone and neck of the dorsal horn were predominantly contralateral. In the white matter, a pronounced bilateral labeling was observed in the nucleus of the dorsolateral funiculus, thus confirming our previous electrophysiological findings (Menétrey et al., '80). This distribution of labeled cells was commonly observed throughout the whole length of the cord. Additional sites of projecting cells have also been identified at the most rostral levels (obex, C1, C2). They mostly derived from spinal extensions of the dorsal column nuclei and lateral cervical nucleus contralaterally; from the lateral ventral horns bilaterally and from the nucleus commissuralis ipsilaterally. This study is thus a clear confirmation that the mesencephalic tegmentum constitutes a target for various somatosensory inputs originating from spinal cord, dorsal column nuclei, and lateral cervical nucleus. Moreover, from these results together with those obtained for the spinothalamic tract in the rat, it appears that marginal and dorsolateral funiculus neurons preferentially project to the mesencephalic tegmentum. The importance of marginal zone projections underlines the involvement of the spinomesencephalic tract in pain mechanisms.
Sources of ascending afferent projections to the central field of the tegmentum mesencephali and centrum medianum thalami in the cat]	After injections of horseradish peroxidase into the central tegmental field of the midbrain reticular formation and centrum medianum of the thalamus in the cat, labelled neurons were found in the nucleus of solitary tract, cuneate and gracile nuclei, spinal nuclei of trigeminal nerve, external nucleus and brachium nucleus of inferior colliculus, nuclei of the lemniscus lateralis in the area pretectalis, nucleus of the posterior commissure and stratum intermediale of the superior colliculus and in reticular structures of medulla and pons. It is concluded that midbrain reticular formation receives the main input from visceral and the centrum medianum from the somatic sensory nuclei.
The organization of dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic mesencephalo-cortical neurons in the rat.	The dopamine containing mesencephalo-cortical pathway was studied in the rat by means of a combined retrograde fluorescent tracing and catecholamine histofluorescence technique. After large injections of the fluorescent retrograde tracer, Evans blue, into the frontal cortex, many neural somata of the ventral midbrain tegmentum were retrogradely labeled; most of the retrogradely labeled neurons also showed catecholamine fluorescence. However, some labeled cells (10-15%) did not show any catecholamine fluorescence. The present findings confirm the existence of a non-dopaminergic (DA) mesencephalo-cortical pathway and describe the topographical interrelationships between its DA and the non-DA cell bodies of origin.
Divergent axon collaterals from rat cerebellar nuclei to diencephalon, mesencephalon, medulla oblongata and cervical cord. A fluorescent double retrograde labeling study.	The existence of divergent axon collaterals of neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei has been investigated in rat by means of the fluorescent retrograde double labeling technique. The results have led to the following conclusions. A. Many of the neurons in the lateral, the interpositus as well as the caudal half of the medial nucleus project to the diencephalon. Some of these neurons distribute divergent axon collaterals to the superior colliculus, but few neurons project only to the latter structure. B. Some of the deep cerebellar neurons located laterally, i.e. in the dorsomedial part of the lateral nucleus, as well as some others located medially, i.e. in the medial part of the interpositus nucleus and the adjoining part of the medial nucleus, distribute divergent axon collaterals to the diencephalon and the spinal cord. C. Deep cerebellar neurons located laterally: in the cell group of the dorsolateral hump (Dlh) and in the adjoining lateral part of the interpositus nucleus, as well as some other located medially, i.e. in the dorsolateral part of the median nucleus (Mdlp), distribute divergent axon collaterals to the diencephalon and to the medulla oblongata, probably primarily its medial reticular formation. However, only few of the neurons, which distribute descending collaterals to the spinal cord or the medulla oblongata, distribute ascending collaterals to the superior colliculus. D. After injections in the medulla oblongata a population of small sized single labeled neurons was encountered especially in the lateral and interpositus nuclei. On the basis of other findings in rat they were assumed to represent cerebello-olivary neurons.
A projection of displaced ganglion cells and giant ganglion cells to the accessory optic nuclei in turtle.	The retinal projection to the accessory optic nuclei (AON) of turtles was found to arise from a distinctive set of giant ganglion cells whose dendrites ramify widely in outer portions of the inner plexiform layer. The majority (80%) of these cells had their perikaryon located in the ganglion cell layer, though displaced ganglion cells (DGCs) were also observed. In contrast, the retinal projection to the avian AON has been reported to arise exclusively from DGCs.
Isthmic afferent neurons identified by the retrograde HRP method in a teleost, Navodon modestus.	Isthmic afferent neurons were investigated by the retrograde horseradish peroxidase (HRP) method in a teleost, Navodon modestus. Following HRP injections into the nucleus isthmi, large pyriform neurons are labeled in the ipsilateral optic tectum. Very large and multipolar neurons are also labeled in the ipsilateral nucleus pretectalis. No labeled neurons were found in other areas.
Brainstem afferents to the lateral mesencephalic tegmental region of the cat.	The lateral mesencephalic tegmental region (LTR) is a part of the midbrain reticular formation characterized by the presence of neurons exhibiting head movement-related discharge modulation. In addition, the LTR contains directionally selective visual units. Possible sources for these vestibular and visual signals were studied by retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase and three different fluorescent tracers (rhodamine, fast blue, and fluorogold) injected into various parts of the LTR. All injections into the LTR traced afferents from the vestibular nuclei and from the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi. Predominant projections were derived from the ipsilateral nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and the ipsilateral medial vestibular nucleus, whereas the observed inputs from the inferior, lateral, and superior vestibular nuclei were much weaker. Further inputs to the LTR originated in the deep and intermediate layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus and the ipsilateral periaqueductal gray, the contralateral LTR, and the contralateral marginal nucleus of the brachium conjunctivum. Tracer deposits in medial parts of the tegmentum neighboring the LTR never produced the pattern of afferents observed after injections into the LTR. Our results suggest that afferents from the deeper layers of the superior colliculus are probably the source of visual signals in the LTR and that head movement-related responses are likely to be derived from the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and the medial vestibular nucleus.
Afferent and efferent connections of the parabigeminal nucleus in cat revealed by retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase.	Afferent and efferent connections of the parabigeminal nucleus (PBG) of the cat have been demonstrated by means of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) tracing technique. Following HRP injection in the PBG, labelled cells were observed mainly in the deep layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus (SC). The other labelled structures were the prepositus hypoglossi complex (PH), the ventral nucleus of the lateral geniculate body (LGV), the locus coeruleus, the cuneiform nucleus, the periaqueductal gray and the dorsomedial hypothalamic area. Efferent projections of the PBG were investigated by HRP injection in SC, LGV, PH, hypothalamus and in some acoustic relays, i.e. medial geniculate body and inferior colliculus. Only the PBG-SC projection appeared to be well systematized. The positive labelling of the PBG following injection of LGV and hypothalamus is discussed in terms of the specificity of the injection. The absence of afferent and efferent connections of the PGB with any acoustic relay tends to exclude this nucleus from the auditory system in contrast to previous suggestions. On the basis of the close reciprocal PBG-SC connections a possible role of the PBG within visuomotor tectal function is proposed.
Effects of ventral tegmental microinjections of the GABAA agonist muscimol on self-administration of ethanol and sucrose.	Two groups of Long-Evans rats were trained to lever press on a fixed-ratio 4 (FR4) schedule of reinforcement with ethanol (10% v/v) or sucrose (75% w/v) presented as the reinforcer. After implantation of guide cannulae aimed at the ventral tegmental area (VTA), weekly bilateral injections of muscimol (10, 30, and 100 ng) were tested. During control conditions, response patterns for both groups were characterized by high rates that began shortly after the start of the session and terminated after approximately 10 min. Muscimol (10 ng) administration in the VTA increased the number of sucrose- but had no effect on the total number of ethanol-reinforced responses. Muscimol (30 ng) shifted the response patterns of both groups from high initial rates with early termination to slow initial rates with delayed termination, suggesting the possibility of nonspecific locomotor effects. These data suggest that ethanol- and sucrose-reinforced response totals are differentially sensitive to changes in GABAergic transmission in the VTA. The similar muscimol-induced changes in response patterns with the two reinforcers supports the hypothesis that GABAA receptors in the VTA are involved similarly in the maintenance of ethanol- and sucrose-reinforced responding. However, the failure of muscimol to increase ethanol-reinforced responding suggests that GABAergic systems in other brain regions may also be involved in the changes in ethanol intake seen following peripheral administration of GABAmimetic drugs.
Anatomy and physiology of the primate interstitial nucleus of Cajal. II. Discharge pattern of single efferent fibers.	Anatomy and physiology of the primate interstitial nucleus of Cajal. II. Discharge pattern of single efferent fibers. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 3100-3111, 1998. Single efferent fibers of the interstitial nucleus of Cajal (NIC) were characterized physiologically and injected with biocytin in alert behaving monkeys. Quantitative analysis demonstrated that their discharge encodes a constellation of oculomotor variables. Tonic and phasic signals were related to vertical (up or down) eye position and saccades, respectively. Depending on how they encoded eye position, saccade velocity, saccade size, saccade duration, and smooth-pursuit eye velocity, fibers were characterized as regular or irregular, bi- or unidirectionally modulated, more or less sensitive, and reliable or unreliable. Further, fibers that did not burst for saccades (tonic) and fibers the eye-position and saccade-related signals of which increased in the same (in-phase) or in the opposite (anti-phase) directions were encountered. A continuum of discharge properties was the rule. We conclude that NIC efferent fibers send a combination of eye-position, saccade-, and smooth-pursuit-related signals, mixed in proportions that differ for different fibers, to targets of the vertical neural integrator such as extraocular motoneurons.
