Processing the telephone speech signal for the hearing impaired.	Speech intelligibility scores from 16 subjects with sensorineural hearing loss were evaluated using a digitized version of the California Consonant Test that was presented via headphones through a 300 to 3000 Hz bandpass filter to simulate the telephone band. Each subject was tested with an unprocessed signal that was frequency-equalized to compensate for the individual's hearing loss, and a signal that was equalized and compressed by the use of a compressor compression technique. Subjects were tested at three sound pressure levels above a pure-tone average threshold for frequencies 1 and 2 kHz. Two digital signal processing techniques designed to compensate for high-frequency hearing loss were examined: frequency domain processing and time domain processing. Frequency domain involved modification of the short-term spectrum obtained through a fast Fourier transform, whereas time domain processing involved passing the signal through a bank of finite impulse response filters. Both techniques showed significant intelligibility improvements (15-30%). In a second experiment, 16 additional subjects with high-frequency hearing loss compared an amplified telephone signal to three processed signals: (1) 6 dB per octave emphasis; (2) a signal frequency equalized for their hearing loss; and (3) a signal that was equalized for their hearing loss and was compressed according to their uncomfortable loudness levels. Most subjects preferred the signal with the 6 dB per octave emphasis.
Deaf people communicating via SMS, TTY, relay service, fax, and computers in Australia.	Despite the expansion of Deaf people's use of communication technology little is published about how they use electronic communication in their social and working lives and the implications for their concepts of identity and community. Australia is an ideal research base because the use of a range of technologies is widespread there. To gain access to a wide age range of people who identify as Deaf, members of the national organization, the Australian Association of the Deaf, were surveyed by mail. Results showed that Short Message Service (SMS), telephone typewriters (TTY), voice/TTY relay services, fax, and e-mail were used regularly. Deaf users are discerning of the purposes for which they use each method: SMS for social and personal interactions, TTY for longer communications and (via the relay service) with people and services without TTYs, fax for business and social contact, and computers for personal and business e-mails as well as Web browsing, accessing chat rooms, word processing, games, and study.
Excellent inter-rater, intra-rater, and telephone-administered reliability of the ALSFRS-R in a multicenter clinical trial.	We wished to determine whether the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale-revised (ALSFRS-R) is reliable when used as primary outcome measure in a multicenter clinical trial. To establish inter-rater reliability, we randomly assigned 19 primary raters and 11 back-up raters to score nine amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients using the ALSFRS-R. To assess intra-rater reliability and reliability of telephone administration, we randomly assigned consecutive participants of the Clinical Trial of High Dose Coenzyme Q10 in ALS (QALS) to have in-person ALSFRS-R interviews at both screening and baseline visits (n=41 patients) or to have the ALSFRS-R interview by telephone at screening and in person at the baseline visit (n=27). An intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of reliability was calculated using a one-way random effects analysis of variance model. In the inter-rater reliability assessment, the primary raters performed 54 ratings on nine patients with ICC=0.93 (95% CI 0.84-0.98). For back-up raters, 32 ratings on nine patients resulted in ICC=0.93 (95% CI 0.82-0.98). The intra-rater reliability for in-person interviews was ICC = 0.95 (95% CI 0.92-0.98). The reliability of telephone administration compared to in-person interviews was ICC=0.97 (95% CI 0.93-0.98). We conclude that the ALSFRS-R shows excellent inter- and intra-rater reliability, and reliability of telephone administration when used as primary outcome measure in a multicenter ALS trial.
Effectiveness of video-telephone nursing care for the homebound elderly.	This study had a dual purpose: to develop measures of change in functioning among the elderly, and to identify the characteristics of groups of homebound elderly whose functioning is significantly improved with video-telephone nursing care. As part of the evaluation of a home telecare program in Belgium, data from all 71 elders who received home telecare were examined in order to describe the nature of the relationship between the care/support received and health outcomes. The elders' functioning was measured using 8 assessment scales. Eleven measures of change in functioning were developed using multi-dimensional scaling algorithms. Use of these measures in the decision tree model made possible the identification of groups of homebound elderly who showed significant improvement following tele-nursing care in well-defined domains of functioning. The findings suggest that telecare is an alternative care model that could be integrated into existing home-care services to provide older people with integrated health services.
A randomized trial of telephone psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy for depression: continuation and durability of effects.	Randomized trial evidence and expert guidelines are mixed regarding the value of combined pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy as initial treatment for depression. This study describes long-term results of a randomized trial (N = 393) evaluating telephone-based cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) plus care management for primary care patients beginning antidepressant treatment versus usual care. In a repeated measures linear model with adjustment for baseline scores, the phone therapy group showed significantly lower mean Hopkins Symptom Checklist (HSCL) Depression Scale scores (L. Derogatis, K. Rickels, E. Uhlenhuth, & L. Covi, 1974) from 6 months to 18 months versus usual care, F(1, 336) = 11.28, p = .001. Average HSCL depression scores over the period from 6 months to 18 months were 0.68 (SD = 0.55) in the telephone therapy group and 0.85 (SD = 0.65) in the usual-care comparison group. Addition of a brief, structured CBT program can significantly improve clinical outcomes for the large number of patients beginning antidepressant treatment in primary care.
Daily assistance for individuals with dementia via videophone.	We previously developed remote reminiscence conversation and schedule prompter systems via the videophone to improve psychological stability and to assist individuals with dementia to perform household tasks. Our results showed that the psychological stability of 1 patient persisted for 3 hours after remote conversations. The task completion rate afforded by the schedule prompter system, which displays a video reminder series automatically, was 52%. In the present study, we also investigated whether psychological stability was sustained in other patients. Furthermore, motivational prompter videos were added to enhance the original schedule prompter system. We found that 1 in 4 patients living at home showed greater stability while conversing with a conversation partner on the videophone than while watching television programs, and that she remained stable for 3 hours after remote conversations. The task completion rate afforded by the revised schedule prompter system was 82%. These 2 remote systems are promising tools for assisting individuals with dementia in their daily lives.
Sensorineural hearing loss in cordless telephone injury.	Audiometric data from 19 cases of cordless telephone injury are reviewed, including three cases with pre-insult and post-insult audiograms. In addition, data are presented from analyses of intensity and frequency for the ring signal of three telephones involved in injury cases. The most severe hearing loss was found at 500 Hz and 1000 Hz, where the mean threshold difference in the injured ear was 20 dB and 29 dB, respectively. The three cases for which pre-insult and post-insult data were available exhibited similar audiometric patterns, although the degree of threshold shift varied. Spectral analysis of the ring signal indicated sound-pressure levels of approximately 140 dB, with a fundamental frequency near 750 Hz.
Psychological distress as a predictor of ventricular arrhythmias in a post-myocardial infarction population.	A prospective study examining the relationship between psychological distress and ventricular ectopy was conducted with 125 post-myocardial infarction patients equipped with a transtelephonic ECG monitor. Subjects were subsequently grouped according to the occurrence (n = 59) or nonoccurrence (n = 65) of ventricular arrhythmias over a 1-year period. Results indicated a direct relationship between self-reported distress levels and occurrence of ectopic beats. This relationship was unaltered by adjusting simultaneously for known predictors of arrhythmias, including cardiac risk, age, and the prescription of beta-blocker agents. Thus this study represents an initial demonstration in a post-myocardial infarction population that psychosocial factors have prognostic significance for arrhythmias and, presumably, sudden death.
Perception of sign language from an array of 27 moving spots.	Many deaf people in the USA communicate in American sign language (ASL), which has an expressive capacity equivalent to that of spoken language, although structurally independent of spoken languages. It comprises hand and arm movements often combined with particular facial gestures; together these are sufficiently precise to transmit all the complexities and innuendoes of language. Here we demonstrate that fluent ASL users can communicate easily when all they see of each other is an array of 27 light spots strategically placed on the hands and face. The results indicate the salient locations in normal sign perception, and suggest that it is feasible to transmit sign using the bandwidth of one telephone line rather than a much more expensive TV line.
Biomedical concerns in wireless communications.	The last decade witnessed rapid development of new communication technologies and their broad acceptance at large. Digital wireless telephones are the most popular example of these technologies. There are two aspects of these technologies that are related to human health and therefore biomedical engineering. First, antennas of some devices are in close proximity to the user's head, thus possibly producing locally excessive energy deposition. Second, radiofrequency (RF) signals emitted are amplitude modulated at extremely low frequencies, potentially eliciting different biological effects from those of unmodulated RF radiation. Recent progress in addressing these two issues is reviewed in this article. Another area of research and concern not covered here is electromagnetic interference (EMI) with medical devices. Considerable research has been conducted on the development of a new method for numerical and experimental evaluation of the spatial distribution of the power deposition in tissue. Improved implantable electric field probes and automated scanning systems are presently available. With respect to numerical evaluation of electric fields in tissue, the finite difference time domain (FDTD) technique has proven to be a useful and accurate tool. These developments also are critical in view of the regulatory requirements now imposed on mobile/portable transmitters. Similarly, significant research effort on biological effects of modulated fields has been undertaken. Most of the studies are still in progress, and further research agendas have been proposed.
Health Council Report 'Radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (300 Hz-300 GHz). The Health Council of the Netherlands]	The Health Council of the Netherlands in 1997 issued a report updating the guidelines for maximum acceptable exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields formulated in 1975. The new recommendations are based on thermal effects for frequencies over 10 MHz. The committee considers the results of studies indicating non-thermal effects such as direct damage to DNA, not reliable enough to be used in setting exposure limits. Electromagnetic interference by electromagnetic fields generated by hand-held telephones may indirectly result in threats to health if vital medical equipment is affected. The committee advises people wearing an implanted pacemaker not to carry a portable telephone that is in stand-by mode in close proximity to the pacemaker; a minimum distance of 15 cm should be observed.
