Mitotic exit regulation through distinct domains within the protein kinase Cdc15.	The mitotic exit network (MEN), a Ras-like signaling cascade, promotes the release of the protein phosphatase Cdc14 from the nucleolus and is essential for cells to exit from mitosis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have characterized the functional domains of one of the MEN components, the protein kinase Cdc15, and investigated the role of these domains in mitotic exit. We show that a region adjacent to Cdc15's kinase domain is required for self-association and for binding to spindle pole bodies and that this domain is essential for CDC15 function. Furthermore, we find that overexpression of CDC15 lacking the C-terminal 224 amino acids results in hyperactivation of MEN and premature release of Cdc14 from the nucleolus, suggesting that this domain within Cdc15 functions to inhibit MEN signaling. Our findings indicate that multiple modes of MEN regulation occur through the protein kinase Cdc15.
Cytogenetic impacts of air-argon environment on epitheliocytes of the mice cornea]	The purpose was to look into the effects of 24-hr. exposure in a normoxic air-argon environment (AAE) on the epitheliocyte proliferative system, i.e. chromosomal aberrations dynamics and cornea proliferative activity, in laboratory mice. Argon was found to significantly decrease the percentage of spontaneous mutations in cells and, probably, to induce reversible inhibition of cell division. Subsequent experiments may not only disclose the still unknown properties and advantages of argon but also shed light on cell mechanisms triggered by the noble gases in general.
The kinesin-14 Klp2 is negatively regulated by the SIN for proper spindle elongation and telophase nuclear positioning.	In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, a late mitotic kinase pathway called the septation initiation network (SIN) triggers cytokinesis. Here we show that the SIN is also involved in regulating anaphase spindle elongation and telophase nuclear positioning via inhibition of Klp2, a minus end-directed kinesin-14. Klp2 is known to localize to microtubules (MTs) and have roles in interphase nuclear positioning, mitotic chromosome alignment, and nuclear migration during karyogamy (nuclear fusion during mating). We observe SIN-dependent disappearance of Klp2 from MTs in anaphase, and we find that this is mediated by direct phosphorylation of Klp2 by the SIN kinase Sid2, which abrogates loading of Klp2 onto MTs by inhibiting its interaction with Mal3 (EB1 homologue). Disruption of Klp2 MT localization is required for efficient anaphase spindle elongation. Furthermore, when cytokinesis is delayed, SIN inhibition of Klp2 acts in concert with microtubules emanating from the equatorial microtubule-organizing center to position the nuclei away from the cell division site. These results reveal novel functions of the SIN in regulating the MT cytoskeleton and suggest that the SIN may have broader functions in regulating cellular organization in late mitosis than previously realized.
Genotoxicity testing of wastewater sludge using the Allium cepa anaphase-telophase chromosome aberration assay.	Wastewater sludges were analysed in the Allium cepa genotoxicity test. They were sampled during three winter periods from three Danish municipal wastewater treatment plants differing in size and industrial load. The toxicity of the sludge was tested in the Allium root inhibition assay, and the results expressed as EC30 and EC50 values showed that the toxicity could be positive correlated to the industrial load. However, when genotoxicity was tested at concentrations corresponding to the EC30 and EC50 values in the A. cepa anaphase-telophase assay, only two sludge samples from the smallest plant with the lowest industrial load induced significant chromosome aberrations. Concentrations of the heavy metal's Pb, Ni, Cr, Zn, Cu, and Cd were also determined and could partly be correlated with the toxicity of the sludge and the industrial load of the treatment plants.
