Telomerase in anti-tumor response.	Telomerase is responsible for maintaining the length of telomeres at the end of chromosomes. It protects chromosomes from degradation and aberrant recombination during replication prolonging the life span of the cell. Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is highly expressed in >85% of cancer cells but its expression is repressed in most human somatic cells. It has been shown that expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase greatly extends the life span of both human CD8+ and CD4+ T cells during activation and proliferation. hTERT-positive tumor cells can induce cytotoxic T lymphocyte response as well as T helper response. On the other hand, it is possible that cytotoxic immune response to hTERT-positive tumor cells can cause autoimmune reaction directed against T cells in a tumor bearing host. This could lead to apoptosis and decreased number of activated T cells and insufficient anti-tumor immunity resulting in tumor progression.
Autoimmune B-cell lymphopenia after successful adoptive therapy with telomerase-specific T lymphocytes.	Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) is a good candidate for cancer immunotherapy because it is overexpressed in 85% of all human tumors and implicated in maintenance of the transformed phenotype. TERT-based cancer vaccines have been shown to be safe, not inducing any immune-related pathology, but their impact on tumor progression is modest. Here we show that adoptive cell therapy with the use of high-avidity T lymphocytes reactive against telomerase can control the growth of different established tumors. Moreover, in transgenic adenocarcinoma mouse prostate mice, which develop prostate cancer, TERT-based adoptive cell therapy halted the progression to more aggressive and poorly differentiated tumors, significantly prolonging mouse survival. We also demonstrated that human tumors, including Burkitt lymphoma, and human cancer stem cells, are targeted in vivo by TERT-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Effective therapy with T cells against telomerase, different from active vaccination, however, led to autoimmunity marked by a consistent, although transient, B-cell depletion in primary and secondary lymphoid organs, associated with alteration of the spleen cytoarchitecture. These results indicate B cells as an in vivo target of TERT-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes during successful immunotherapy.
P53, hTERT, WT-1, and VEGFR2 are the most suitable targets for cancer vaccine therapy in HLA-A24 positive pancreatic adenocarcinoma.	Cancer vaccine therapy is one of the most attractive therapies as a new treatment procedure for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Recent technical advances have enabled the identification of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes in various tumor-associated antigens (TAAs). However, little is known about which TAA and its epitope are the most immunogenic and useful for a cancer vaccine for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. We examined the expression of 17 kinds of TAA in 9 pancreatic cancer cell lines and 12 pancreatic cancer tissues. CTL responses to 23 epitopes derived from these TAAs were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT), CTL, and tetramer assays in 41 patients, and factors affecting the immune responses were investigated. All TAAs were frequently expressed in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells, except for adenocarcinoma antigens recognized by T cells 1, melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE)-A1, and MAGE-A3. Among the epitopes recognized by CTLs in more than two patients in the ELISPOT assay, 6 epitopes derived from 5 TAAs, namely, MAGE-A3, p53, human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT), Wilms tumor (WT)-1, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)2, could induce specific CTLs that showed cytotoxicity against pancreatic cancer cell lines. The frequency of lymphocyte subsets correlated well with TAA-specific immune response. Overall survival was significantly longer in patients with TAA-specific CTL responses than in those without. P53, hTERT, WT-1, and VEGFR2 were shown to be attractive targets for immunotherapy in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, and the induction of TAA-specific CTLs may improve the prognosis of these patients. 
