Biomechanical strain regulates TNFR2 but not TNFR1 in TMJ cells.	We sought to examine whether cyclic tensile strain (CTS) regulates the gene expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, its receptors TNFR1 and TNFR2, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) under inflammatory conditions, and whether these effects of CTS are sustained. Rat temporomandibular joint disc cells (TDC) were exposed to CTS in the presence or absence of interleukin (IL)-1beta for 4 and 24h. Cells were also stimulated with IL-1beta for 24h while being subjected to CTS only for the initial 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12h or the entire 24h incubation time. Furthermore, cells were incubated with IL-1beta for 24, 36, or 48 h while being exposed to CTS only for the initial 8h. Gene expression of TNF-alpha, its receptors, and iNOS was analyzed by RT-PCR, whereas protein synthesis was determined by ELISA for TNF-alpha, immunofluorescence for TNFRs, and Griess reaction for nitric oxide. CTS inhibited the IL-1beta-stimulated synthesis of TNF-alpha, TNFR2, and iNOS. TNFR1 was constitutively expressed but not regulated by IL-1beta or CTS. Application of CTS for only 1 or 2h during a 24h incubation with IL-1beta was sufficient to inhibit IL-1beta-induced upregulation of TNF-alpha, TNFR2, and iNOS. However, for maximal inhibition of these genes a longer exposure of CTS was required. These findings are the first to show that biomechanical signals regulate the expression of TNFR2 but not TNFR1 under inflammatory conditions. Furthermore, the antiinflammatory effects of biomechanical signals on TDC are maintained for prolonged periods of time but are transient.
In vitro synthesis and characterization of a cartilaginous meniscus grown from isolated temporomandibular chondroprogenitor cells.	Internal derangement of the temporomandibularjoint can lead to perforation of the intra-articular meniscus and osteoarthritic degeneration. Current methods of repairing damaged menisci are limited by lack of biological compatibility of graft materials. This project aimed to synthesise and characterise a primate cartilaginous meniscus in vitro from harvested mandibular chondroprogenitor cells. Isolated cells from the mandibular cartilage of 12 young adult marmosets, aged 9-12 months, were grown in monolayer culture. After 21 days confluent colonies were resuspended and dispersed into a unpolymerised solution of type I collagen and fibrinogen. The resultant cell suspension was infiltrated into a resorbable type I collagen sponge carrier and allowed to polymerise. Aliquots of the cell-infiltrated sponge were maintained in organ culture for a further 14 days. Cultures were characterised using histochemical and immunocytochemical localisation of collagen and proteoglycan species. Two-thirds of cells in confluent 21-day monolayers expressed cartilage-specific type II collagen and chondroitin-4-sulphate. After 35 days organ cultures had formed a viable, organised, three-dimensional tissue mass consisting of mature chondrocytic cells interspersed in a dense cartilaginous matrix. The cartilaginous tissue generated in vitro may have potential application in the repair or replacement of damaged menisci in vivo.
