Surgery for epilepsy.	While medical treatment remains the first line of treatment for epilepsy, surgery provides effective long-term control in suitable patients. Detailed investigations are necessary to prove suitability and in order to choose the appropriate procedure. This article gives an outline of the investigative programme and the various operative approaches. Novel methods and those under investigation are also discussed.
Failure of low-dose radiosurgery to control temporal lobe epilepsy.	Radiosurgical treatment of intractable epilepsy has emerged as a noninvasive alternative to resection. Although gamma knife surgery (GKS) reportedly is effective when the radiation dose is sufficient to cause a destructive reaction in the targeted medial temporal lobe, the optimal target area and dose distribution are largely unknown. Some investigators have suggested that focused irradiation from a nondestructive dose is also effective. In this article the authors report two cases of medial temporal lobe epilepsy in which the patients underwent GKS performed using a 50% marginal dose of 18 Gy covering the amygdala. hippocampal head and body, and parahippocampal gyrus. In both cases this procedure failed to control seizures. Both patients became seizure free after undergoing anterior temporal lobectomy 30 and 16 months, respectively, after radiosurgery.
Temporal lobectomy in congenital porencephaly associated with hippocampal sclerosis.	Clinical and neuroimaging features of patients with epilepsy and coexisting extratemporal porencephaly and hippocampal sclerosis have been previously described.
Lateralized impairment of the emotional enhancement of verbal memory in patients with amygdala-hippocampus lesion.	This study investigated amygdala-hippocampus's functional asymmetry in the emotional modulation of memory for stories. Thirty-nine, right-handed, drug-resistant epilepsy patients who had been submitted to unilateral temporal lobectomy (19 left and 20 right) watched either an arousing or neutral version of a story presented audio-visually. The slide sequence was the same in the neutral and arousing version, the narratives were matched for structure and comprehensibility. The set and order of the 11 slide sequence were identical in both conditions. Free recall and recognition measures were taken 2h after story presentation. Subjects in the TLE group who watched the arousing version recalled more details than the subjects who watched the neutral version (t(37)=3.4,p<.001). The group who watched the arousing version recalled more details of the phase 2 of the story (t(37)=6.76,p<.001). Scores in both conditions did not differ between control subjects and temporal lobectomy patients. When the right and left lesioned groups' results were analyzed separately, it was observed that the two groups did not differ in their recall of the neutral version. The right lesioned group recalled more items of the arousal than the neutral version (Z=-3.55,p<.001). However the left lesioned group did not show the memory enhancement for the emotional version, in this group it was only found an enhanced recall of the more pictorial emotional segment of the narrative (Z=-3.11,p<.001). This illustrates that the right amygdala can influence retention of complex emotional stimuli with verbal and pictorial arousing properties. We concluded that an intact left amygdala-hippocampus is important for enhancement of memory related to emotionally arousing verbal material.
Robotic long-distance telementoring in neurosurgery.	To test the feasibility of long-distance telementoring in neurosurgery by providing subspecialized expertise in real time to another neurosurgeon performing a surgical procedure in a remote location.
Magnetic resonance image-based hippocampal volumetry: correlation with outcome after temporal lobectomy.	We developed a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based technique for measuring the volume of the hippocampal formation. In this study, the relationship between volumes of the hippocampal formation and outcome (i.e., postoperative seizure control) after anterior temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy was analyzed in 50 consecutive patients in whom the surgical specimen did not contain an epileptogenic mass lesion. Outcome was classified as either satisfactory or unsatisfactory. A significant relationship was found between outcome and volume of the operated hippocampal formation (p = 0.012), as well as a derived volumetric measure (nonoperated minus operated volume of the hippocampal formation) (p = 0.004). The association between outcome and nonoperated volume was borderline (p = 0.057). Thirty-four (97%) of 35 patients in whom the volumetric study and electroencephalography (EEG) concordantly lateralized the seizure disorder had satisfactory postoperative seizure control. Conversely, only 7 (42%) of 12 patients in whom the volume study was nonlateralizing and 1 (33%) of 3 in whom the EEG and volume study were discordant has a satisfactory outcome. We regard our MRI-based study of hippocampal formation volume as a noninvasive surrogate for the identification of moderate or severe mesial temporal sclerosis. The technique is a useful adjunct in a multidisciplinary, preoperative epilepsy evaluation when T2-weighted MRIs do not reveal an epileptogenic mass lesion. The reasons for the usefulness of this imaging technique are: (1) It is an independent source of information on seizure lateralization, (2) it will provide information as to expected postoperative outcome, and (3) it may aid in appropriately selecting patients for invasive preoperative monitoring studies.
Normal magnetic resonance imaging and medial temporal lobe epilepsy: the clinical syndrome of paradoxical temporal lobe epilepsy.	The syndrome of medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) may occur in patients in whom magnetic resonance (MR) images demonstrate normal findings. In these patients, there is no evidence of hippocampal sclerosis on neuroimaging, and histopathological examination of the resected hippocampus does not reveal significant neuron loss. In this paper the authors describe the distinct clinical features of this MTLE subtype, referred to as paradoxical temporal lobe epilepsy (PTLE).
Quantifying deficits in the perception of fear and anger in morphed facial expressions after bilateral amygdala damage.	Amygdala damage has been associated with impairments in perceiving facial expressions of fear. However, deficits in perceiving other emotions, such as anger, and deficits in perceiving emotion blends have not been definitively established. One possibility is that methods used to index expression perception are susceptible to heuristic use, which may obscure impairments. To examine this, we adapted a task used to examine categorical perception of morphed facial expressions [Etcoff, N. L., & Magee, J. J. (1992). Categorical perception of facial expressions. Cognition, 44(3), 227-240]. In one version of the task, expressions were categorized with unlimited time constraints. In the other, expressions were presented with limited exposure durations to tap more automatic aspects of processing. Three morph progressions were employed: neutral to anger, neutral to fear, and fear to anger. Both tasks were administered to a participant with bilateral amygdala damage (S.P.), age- and education-matched controls, and young controls. The second task was also administered to unilateral temporal lobectomy patients. In the first version, S.P. showed impairments relative to normal controls on the neutral-to-anger and fear-to-anger morphs, but not on the neutral-to-fear morph. However, reaction times suggested that speed-accuracy tradeoffs could account for results. In the second version, S.P. showed impairments on all morph types relative to all other subject groups. A third experiment showed that this deficit did not extend to the perception of morphed identities. These results imply that when heuristics use is discouraged on tasks utilizing subtle emotion transitions, deficits in the perception of anger and anger/fear blends, as well as fear, are evident with bilateral amygdala damage.
Trapping and vascular reconstruction for ruptured fusiform aneurysm in the proximal A1 segment of the anterior cerebral artery.	A 65-year-old woman presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Angiography detected a small bulge in the A1 segment of the right anterior cerebral artery (ACA). The patient was managed conservatively. Ten days after the initial SAH, the patient suffered a second SAH. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a fusiform aneurysm in the right A1 segment and vasospasm in the left A1 segment. The aneurysm of the right A1 segment was trapped and the right superficial temporal artery (STA) was end-to-end anastomosed to the distal portion of the right A1 segment. The patient had no postoperative cerebral ischemic events. Postoperative cerebral angiography revealed that the bypass flow through the right STA perfused the right ACA territories. STA-A1 end-to-end anastomosis can prevent cerebral ischemic events following parent vessel occlusion or microsurgical trapping for fusiform cerebral aneurysms in the A1 segment without sufficient collateral flow to the ipsilateral ACA territory from the contralateral ACA.
Predictors of naming decline after dominant temporal lobectomy: age at onset of epilepsy and age of word acquisition.	This study examined factors affecting object naming decline in patients who have undergone anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) and the correlation between age of word acquisition and loss of specific object names postoperatively. The Boston Naming Test (BNT) was used to assess changes in object-naming performance in patients who underwent ATL. Correlation analyses were performed by group (dominant or nondominant ATL) on individual items from the BNT to determine if age of acquisition of object names had an effect on postoperative word loss. The influence of age at onset of seizures on naming decline was examined in the dominant ATL group. Only patients who had undergone dominant ATL experienced significant clinical and statistical declines after surgery. Among the patients who underwent dominant ATL, those with late age at onset of seizures declined significantly more than those with early-onset seizures. When individual object names were examined, age of acquisition of words predicted whether words were lost or gained after surgery.
Corpora amylacea in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy: clinico-pathological correlations.	To investigate the electro-clinical significance of premature accumulation of corpora amylacea (CoA) in the resected hippocampus of patients with medically refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS).
Persistent seizures following left temporal lobe surgery are associated with posterior and bilateral structural and functional brain abnormalities.	To perform a quantitative MRI and retrospective electrophysiological study to investigate whether persistent post-surgical seizures may be due to brain structural and functional abnormalities in temporal lobe cortex beyond the margins of resection and/or bilateral abnormalities in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).
Natural history of recurrent seizures after resective surgery for epilepsy.	Seizures persist or recur in 20-60% of patients after resective surgery for intractable partial epilepsy. Further information about the natural course of these seizures is lacking in the literature. During one decade of epilepsy surgery at a single institution, we identified 72 patients with recurrent postoperative seizures after resective procedures for epilepsy. Prospectively compiled seizure diaries, hospital records, and outpatient office records were reviewed and supplemented by telephone communications to assess subsequent seizure frequency. Follow-up data was available ranging from 6 months to 7 years 5 months (mean 3 years 5 months). The likelihood of persistent seizures and recurrent intractability was examined with life-tables. Seizures recurred within the first postoperative year in 86% of patients and were similar to preoperative events in 74% of patients. After the first seizure recurrence, there was 80% likelihood of persistent seizures in the next 6 years and 40% likelihood of intractability (more than one seizure a month despite optimal medical therapy). The interval until recurrence within the first postoperative year did not affect the likelihood of subsequent seizures or intractability. Late seizure recurrence (after the first year) was not associated with any instances of subsequent intractability. Recurrent seizures after extratemporal resections were more likely to become persistent and intractable than seizures recurring after temporal resections. This information provides rational prognostication and assists in counseling patients with recurrent seizures after resective surgery for intractable epilepsy.
Temporal lobectomy: a promising alternative.	Recent advances in the neurosciences have made temporal lobectomy a promising alternative for refractory seizures. Reportedly, postoperative seizure frequency decreases 95%. Specific criteria are used to determine a patient's suitability for surgery. Localization of the epileptogenic focus progresses from a series of noninvasive to gradually more invasive procedures. Pre- and postoperative management requires skilled nursing care. The nurse plays a vital role in patient and family education, observation and documentation of clinical events, physical care and psychological support.
Surgical treatment of epilepsy resistant to drug therapy. A review]	The prevalence of epilepsy is 7-9 cases per 1,000 population, corresponding to 440,000 individuals in Denmark. Approximately 1/4 of these individuals have seizures refractory to anticonvulsant medications and most of them have an epileptic focus in the temporal lobe. Epilepsy refractory to anticonvulsant medication is an incapacitating disease with high costs for the person and the society. The main problems are polypharmacy with side effects, suspicion of neurodegenerative consequences and a higher mortality. The modern era of epilepsy surgery began more than 100 years ago and since then, the developments in neurophysiology and neuroimaging have made it possible to demonstrate the epileptic focus with relatively high precision. As a consequence of this, the volume of the resected tissue has diminished and the operative complications become less frequent. The somatic and neuropsychological effects of a cortical resection are discrete and compensated by a general improvement in performance. Surgical treatment of epilepsy should no longer be considered as a last resort, but as a realistic treatment in cases of medication failure.
Removal of the roof of the external auditory meatus in approaching the tentorial notch through a low temporal craniotomy. Technical note.	Improved access to the tentorial notch can be obtained by removal of the roof of the external auditory meatus in association with a low temporal craniotomy. This approach decreases temporal lobe retraction and the risk of venous infarction. This method was perfected in the surgical laboratory on five cadavers and was successfully performed in a patient with a giant aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery.
Human olfactory discrimination after unilateral frontal or temporal lobectomy.	Olfactory discrimination and detection was studied in 106 patients with unilateral cerebral excision in the right or left temporal lobe, right or left frontal lobe, left parietal lobe, or right frontal and temporal lobes, and in 20 normal control subjects. Detection thresholds for n-butyl alcohol, measured separately in each nostril, did not differ across subject groups or across nostrils, thus excluding any primary sensory loss. The discrimination task involved monorhinal presentation of repairs of unfamiliar odorants, which the subjects judged as same or different in quality. The results showed a significant deficit in discrimination confined to the nostril ipsilateral to the lesion in patients with temporal lobe removals. Patients with frontal lobe excisions were also impaired and, for patients with right frontal lesions including the orbital cortex, the impairment was found in both nostrils. Patients with left parietal lesions did not demonstrate any significant deficits. Normal subjects showed consistently better performance in the right than in the left nostril. The results are interpreted as reflecting the importance of the orbitofrontal cortex in olfactory discrimination. Temporal lobe lesions may disrupt the input to the orbitofrontal cortex, thereby producing poorer performance. The nostril difference in the normal subjects, together with the birhinal impairment in patients with right orbitofrontal damage, suggest a relative advantage of the right orbital region in olfactory processing.
Evaluation of children for epilepsy surgery.	Surgical management of refractory epilepsy in childhood is a viable treatment option available for many children. Ideally, this treatment should be applied to appropriate candidates prior to adulthood to prevent them from becoming "psychosocial invalids." The pediatrician is instrumental in identifying potential candidates for epilepsy surgery and referring them to a tertiary-care epilepsy center. Few detrimental long-term cognitive or behavioral deficits occur if the surgery is uncomplicated. The cost of the presurgical evaluation and surgical treatment varies from $25,000 to $100,000, depending on the preoperative work-up required.
Prediction of cognitive change as a function of preoperative ability status among temporal lobectomy patients seen at 6-month follow-up.	The relationship between preoperative ability levels and postoperative changes in cognitive function was examined among 23 left (LTL) and 19 right (RTL) temporal lobectomy patients using a battery of memory, language, and visuospatial tasks administered approximately 3 months before surgery and at 6 months follow-up. Higher preoperative performances on the memory and language measures were associated with larger decrements in postsurgical scores among the LTL patients. The RTL group showed no consistent relationship between preoperative ability levels and subsequent postsurgical cognitive changes. Based on the present data, we constructed base-rate tables for the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised indicating the likelihood of measurable gains or losses in memory as a function of presurgical ability level for patients undergoing LTL. While tentative, these data provide a useful and practical guide for counseling prospective epilepsy patients of the attendant cognitive risks of LTL.
Second operation after the failure of previous resection for epilepsy.	We present our surgical experience with second operations in 15 patients with recurrent intractable partial seizures after resection for epilepsy. The interval from the first operation until the first recurrence of seizures ranged from 1 day to 7 months (mean, 62 days). The interval between the first and second operations ranged from 3 months to 12 years (mean, 38 months). Detailed video-electroencephalographic interictal and ictal recording was performed in all patients (invasive electrodes were used in 11 patients). Ictal onset was shown to be remote from the zone of previous resection in 3 of 15 cases (all 3 extratemporal and in the ipsilateral hemisphere). Recurrent seizures arose from the area of previous extratemporal resection in 2 of 15 patients, and from the area of previous temporal resection in 10 of 15 patients. Both cases of extratemporal recurrences and 3 of the 10 cases of temporal lobe recurrences in the area of previous resection were associated with residual unresected structural lesion. Of the 10 patients with local temporal recurrence, 6 had proven epileptogenicity in the residual mesial structures, and 4 had residual epileptogenicity in the unresected lateral temporal lobe. The patients have been monitored for 8 to 82 months (mean, 18 months) after the second operation: 7 patients (47%) have remained seizure-free and another 5 (33%) have achieved a reduction in seizure frequency of more than 90%. There was no mortality or significant morbidity in this series. We conclude that the extent and distribution of residual epileptogenicity after failed epilepsy surgery are highly variable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Apical temporal lobe resection; "tailored" hippocampus-sparing resection based on presurgical evaluation data.	It is the aim of epilepsy surgery in patients with lesional epilepsy for the surgeon to not only remove the lesion itself, but also the epileptogenic zone. Here, we report our experience with a modified temporal resection technique confined to the apical temporal lobe, i.e., sparing the hippocampal formation in patients with epileptogenic lesions in the anterior part of the temporal lobe. This apical temporal lobe resection (aTLR) includes tailored lesionectomy, amygdalectomy, and resection of the mesial structures only in the apex of the temporal lobe. This paper presents our surgical technical details and the outcome of aTLR.
Randomized controlled trial of 2.5-cm versus 3.5-cm mesial temporal resection--Part 2: volumetric resection extent and subgroup analyses.	This paper is addressing outcome differences in interesting subgroups from a previous randomized controlled trial of the extent of mesial temporal lobe resection (TLR) for drug-resistant epilepsy, by looking at effects of randomization, intended resection group, center, and true resection extent on seizure outcome.
Hyperkinetic seizures in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy: clinical features and outcome after temporal lobe resection.	Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is usually associated with automatisms. Hyperkinetic seizures are supposed to be unusual. Because we witnessed several patients with TLE and ictal hyperkinetic symptoms, we retrospectively assessed the number, clinical findings, and seizure outcome in such patients who had undergone temporal lobe resection.
Anterior temporal lobectomy with amygdalohippocampectomy for mesial temporal sclerosis: predictors of long-term seizure control.	In this paper the authors' goal was to identify preoperative variables that predict long-term seizure freedom among patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) after single-stage anterior temporal lobectomy and amygdalohippocampectomy (ATL-AH).
The contribution of patient H.M. to modern neuroscience]	In 1953, 27-year-old H.M. underwent bilateral medial temporal lobes resection to control his seizures; however, he suffered from severe amnesia as a result. For the next five decades until his death in December 2008 at the age 82, he was the subject of numerous studies performed by over 100 investigators. The reason why research on H.M. continued for so long is mostly attributed to the efficient organization of excellent researchers. The principal findings of H.M. study encouraged the concept of medial temporal lobe memory system and multiple memory systems, and suggested the slow acquisition of semantic knowledge without medial temporal lobe memory system through repeated experience. By the grace of H.M.'s lifelong contribution, the neuroscience of memory is in full flourish.
Selective amygdalohippocampectomy versus anterior temporal lobectomy in the management of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy: a meta-analysis of comparative studies.	Whether selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SelAH) has similar seizure outcomes and better neuropsychological outcomes compared with anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) is a matter of debate. The aim of this study was to compare the 2 types of surgery with respect to seizure outcomes and changes in IQ scores.
Verbal memory after epilepsy surgery in childhood.	To investigate verbal memory after epilepsy surgery both group-wise and at the level of individual children, and to assess associations with side of surgery and removal of the temporal lobe.
Preservation of the long insular artery to prevent postoperative motor deficits after resection of insulo-opercular glioma: technical case reports.	Resection of insulo-opercular gliomas carries the risk of postoperative hemiparesis caused by ischemia of the corona radiata resulting from injury to the long insular arteries. However, intraoperative identification of these perforating arteries is challenging. We attempted intra-operative motor evoked potential (MEP) monitoring under temporary occlusion of the suspected long insular artery arising from the opercular portion of middle cerebral artery in two patients with insulo-opercular gliomas. Temporary occlusion of the artery caused decrease in MEP amplitude, which recovered after release in one patient, who had no postoperative motor deficits or ischemic lesion in the corona radiata. Temporary occlusion of the artery caused no changes in MEP amplitude, so that the artery was sacrificed for tumor removal in the other patient, who had no motor deficits but ischemic lesion was present in the corona radiata in the territory of the long insular artery sparing the descending motor pathway. These cases show that great care should be taken during surgical manipulations near the posterior part of the superior limiting sulcus to preserve the perforating branches to the corona radiata, and temporary occlusion of the branches under MEP monitoring is useful to identify the arteries supplying the pyramidal tract. 
Considering iatrogenic psychosis after malignant glioma resection.	It is generally well known that medial temporal lobe resections have been associated with a variety of postoperative neuropsychiatric disturbances. Most of the neurosurgical literature on psychiatric disturbances after a temporal lobectomy concern patients with a strong history of epilepsy; however, relatively few articles have been reported due to a mesial temporal lobectomy following tumour removal. We report the case of a patient who underwent a gross total resection of a malignant astrocytoma in the temporal lobe who developed transient psychosis. Difficulties in diagnosing and predicting this condition are discussed as along with management considerations. 
Surgical treatment of epilepsy: opportunities for research into basic mechanisms of human brain function.	Numerous technological developments in neurology have increased the ability to localize structural and functional abnormalities within the human brain. Such techniques have contributed to a renewed interest in resective surgical treatment for medically refractory partial seizures. Enhanced capacity to carry out detailed in vivo and in vitro measurements of neuronal activity in patients, during the course of presurgical evaluation and following surgical resection, now offers unprecedented opportunities for invasive research into normal and abnormal human cerebral function. Electrophysiological, microanatomical, biochemical and behavioral studies can be carried out without presenting undue risk or discomfort to the patient. Such research in a clinical setting presents difficulties in experimental design for the basic neuroscientist. Problems are reduced in clinical programs where diagnostic and surgical procedures are carried out in a standardized fashion according to specific protocols. The UCLA clinical protocol for anterior temporal lobectomy, based on presurgical evaluation with stereotactically implanted depth electrodes, is particularly amenable to the integration of basic research projects. This protocol and related ongoing research projects are described.
Thrombosed AVM presenting temporal lobe epilepsy]	A rare case of thrombosed AVM presenting temporal lobe epilepsy is reported. A 27-year old man was admitted to our hospital because of a 7-year history of temporal lobe epilepsy. He had also suffered from generalized seizure since he was 6 years old. No neurological deficit was disclosed. CT scan demonstrated a small calcified mass lesion in the left temporal lobe which was not enhanced by contrast study. Skull X - P and cerebral angiography were normal. Low intensity area on T1-weighted MR image corresponded to the high density area on CT scan. T2-weighted MR image demonstrated that peripheral low intensity area was more prominent and extensive. Conventional EEG showed focal spike discharges from the left fronto-central lead, and subdural EEG recordings showed intermittent spike discharges from the medial side of the left temporal lobe. A 5 cm temporal lobectomy was performed and a thick fibrous mass adjacent to the hippocampoamygdala complex was removed. Histopathological examination demonstrated a thrombosed AVM surrounded by gliotic neural tissue.
Optic tract injury after anterior temporal lobectomy.	Three patients had complete homonymous hemianopia with clinical and neuroimaging characteristics of ipsilateral optic tract infarction after anterior temporal lobectomy for seizure control. This injury presumably resulted from irritative vasospasm of the anterior choroidal artery. The features of this pure optic tract syndrome should be distinguished from the more common compressive optic tract syndrome which generally also impairs ipsilateral optic nerve function.
Intensive neuromonitoring for complex partial seizures: focal seizure pattern variability in surgical patients.	Intensive neuromonitoring of seizure surgery candidates, with its associated medication withdrawal, involves increased seizure susceptibility. This can cause a confusing array of seizure patterns. This problem was examined in the candidates for seizure surgery in the Austin Hospital Comprehensive Epilepsy Programme, emphasis being placed on focal seizures. Generalized seizures were very common. Eleven (15%) patients showed multiple focal seizure patterns. Seven patients showed temporal lobe seizures originating from either side separately. Three showed persistent frontal and temporal complex partial seizures. One patient showed 2 separate species of focal epilepsy. Whilst the simplest and most effective way out of this diagnostic problem was close consultation and video review with parent or spouse, this process was ineffective in 6 of 11 patients. In patients with bitemporal lobe epilepsy there was often little to distinguish the fit coming from one side from that coming from the other and often elements of the fit from either side were recognized by the relative. In all patients with frontal and temporal complex partial seizures, elements of the seizure had been seen previously and in only 1 was there any preponderance on neuromonitoring. Therefore it is suspected that the confusing seizure detail seen on intensive neuromonitoring may in fact exist in real life and render the clinical history suspect--a problem which can be avoided only by initial neuromonitoring.
Surgical options for uncontrolled epilepsy.	Surgical management of refractory epilepsy has undergone many modifications since it was instituted for the treatment of post-traumatic seizures many decades ago. Localization of onset of all seizures to a single resectable area of brain by various noninvasive and invasive recording methods is a complicated and controversial area, but guidelines are available. Success is correlated with accurate location and complete resection of the focus. When this is accomplished, resective surgery for epilepsy can provide cure or over 95 per cent reduction in seizure frequency in 60 to 90 per cent of patients undergoing these procedures. Although most often applied to temporal lobe foci, resections may be done in any cerebral lobe in the dominant or nondominant hemisphere with appropriate modifications of the evaluation and surgical procedure. When patients have unlocalizable or unresectable foci, depending on their exact pattern of seizures, electrical abnormalities, and neurologic status, other procedures may be used for surgical control of seizures. These include hemispherectomy, corpus callosum section, or stereotaxic procedures. The risks of all evaluation and surgical approaches are well balanced by the benefits obtained in a large proportion of patients.
Focal dysplasia of the cerebral cortex in epilepsy.	An unusual microscopic abnormality has been identified in the lobectomy specimens removed surgically from the brains of 10 epileptic patients. The abnormality could seldom be identified by palpation or with the naked eye. Histologically, it consisted of congregations of large, bizarre neurones which were littered through all but the first cortical layer. In most, but not in all cases, grotesque cells, probably of glial origin, were also present in the depths of the affected cortex and in the subjacent white matter. This kind of abnormality appears to be a malformation. The picture is reminiscent of tuberous sclerosis but too many distinguishing features, both in the clinical and in the pathological aspects, make this diagnosis untenable. The cases are therefore looked on provisionally (since all but one are still alive) as comprising a distinct form of cortical dysplasia in which localized, exotic populations of nerve cells underlie the electrical and clinical manifestations of certain focal forms of epilepsy.
Behavioural training during acute brain trauma rehabilitation: an empirical case study.	Operant conditioning-based behavioural interventions are commonly used for the behavioural problems of individuals with mental retardation. There is also growing evidence of the benefits of these interventions for treating some of the behavioural problems of individuals with acquired cognitive deficits resulting from brain trauma. However, the effects of behavioural interventions on behavioural problems occurring during acute neurorehabilitation, when orientation and memory are most impaired, have not been studied. In this empirical case study, operant conditioning-based procedures were applied with an 8-year-old girl recovering from brain trauma and related neurosurgery. Screaming, non-compliance and aggression, which were disrupting rehabilitation therapies and follow-up neuroimaging, were treated using differential positive reinforcement techniques. Beneficial behavioural intervention effects were demonstrated using single-subject experimental methods. Aberrant behaviour during physical and occupational therapies was reduced, and cooperation with a computerized tomography (CT) scan without sedation was accomplished using operant behavioural intervention. Results support the use of operant interventions early in recovery from brain trauma, and highlight the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration for the implementation and further study of early behavioural interventions.
The late diagnosis of temporal lobe tumors with the epileptic seizure syndrome]	Based on the experience gained with surgical treatment of 658 epileptic patients the authors discuss 7 cases of late diagnosis of gliomas of the temporal lobe. Cessation of the attacks after stereotaxic cryodestruction for 6 months to 6 years does not exclude that tumor may grow. The occurrence of new foci of neurological symptoms is prognostically unfavourable.
GABA(A) receptor function in epileptic human dentate granule cells: comparison to epileptic and control rat.	Using patch clamp recording techniques in dentate granule cells (DGCs) isolated from patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy, we investigated basic properties of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) and pharmacological sensitivity of GABA-evoked currents to modulation by zinc and benzodiazepines (BZ). Properties of human DGC GABA(A)Rs were compared to DGC GABA(A)R properties in control and epileptic rats. Blockade of GABA evoked currents by zinc was significantly enhanced in epileptic human relative to control rat DGCs. Augmentation of the GABA(A)R current by the non-subunit selective BZ agonist, clonazepam (CNZ) and by the BZ1 specific agonist, zolpidem (ZOL), were not significantly different in human DGCs relative to control or epileptic rat. GABA potency was significantly higher in epileptic human DGCs than in control or epileptic rat DGCs. The significantly enhanced efficacy of zinc in blocking GABA currents in epileptic human DGCs mirrors that seen in epileptic rat DGCs, and was coupled with mossy fiber sprouting evident in both epileptic human and rat dentate gyrus. The aberrant mossy fibers provide a novel zinc delivery system within the epileptic dentate gyrus. The mossy fiber release of zinc onto DGCs coupled with the enhanced zinc sensitivity of GABA(A)Rs in epileptic DGCs, may lead to 'dynamic disinhibition' which could compromise inhibitory efficacy in the epileptic rat and human hippocampus.
Competition between past and present. Assessment and interpretation of verbal perseverations.	Perseveration consists of the inappropriate repetition of a preceding behaviour when a new adapted response is expected. We have developed statistical tools that make it possible to reveal such perseverations, assess their significance and study their finer characteristics, such as their temporal course and impaired processing level. This approach is illustrated and evaluated through analyses of naming errors produced by three patients with impairments affecting different stages of the processing chain leading from visual perception to speech production. These examples of perseverations include the intrusion not only of whole words (patient R.A.V.) but also of isolated phonemes (patient D.U.M.) or of visual features (patient Y.M.) from previous trials. In all cases, the probability that an error is a perseveration from a previous trial is an exponentially decreasing function of the lag between the two trials considered. This suggests that perseverations reflect a decaying internal variable, such as an internal level of activation of previous utterances. Based on these empirical results, we put forward a tentative mechanism for the generation of perseverations: whenever a given processing level is deprived of its normal input, persistent activity inherited from previous trials is no longer overcome by current input, and is revealed in the form of perseverations.
Influence of head trauma on outcome following anterior temporal lobectomy.	There is controversy in the literature regarding the importance of risk factors in developing epilepsy and seizure outcome following anterior temporal lobectomy. Some of the existing studies may be biased because of patient selection and limitations in determining predisposition.
Intact recognition of vocal expressions of fear following bilateral lesions of the human amygdala.	A recent case study found that bilateral damage to the amygdala impairs the normal appraisal of vocal expressions of fear. However, the single source of evidence for this auditory emotion-processing impairment is from a patient with extra-amygdaloid damage that may include the basal ganglia, which have been shown to be important for prosody evaluation. In this study we provide evidence of preserved evaluation of vocal expressions of fear in a female patient (S.P.) with bilateral damage to the amygdala but with intact basal ganglia. This same patient has previously been shown to be impaired in the evaluation of facial expressions, including fear. These results indicate that the analysis of nonverbal signals of fear from different input channels are dissociable, being at least partially dependent on different brain structures. We suggest that the amygdala, in conjunction with the basal ganglia, may support the normal appraisal of auditory signals of danger.
