Influence of jaw gape on EMG of jaw muscles and jaw-stretch reflexes.	The influence of jaw gapes on jaw-stretch reflexes and jaw muscles activity was studied in order to test the sensitivity of human muscle spindle afferents in various jaw muscles. Twelve healthy men (mean age+/-S.E.M.: 25.0+/-1.2yr) participated in the study. Short-latency excitatory reflex responses were evoked by a custom-made stretch device with the subjects biting on a jaw-bar with their front teeth. Surface electromyographic (sEMG) recordings from right masseter (MAR), and right temporalis (TAR), intramuscular EMG (imEMG) recordings from right lateral pterygoid (LPR) and right anterior digastric (ADR) muscles were made. The reflex at different jaw gapes of 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, 26, 30, 34, and 38mm were examined in random order with standard stretch conditions of 1mm displacement and 10ms ramp time. Twenty sweeps of the reflex were recorded at each level with at least 5s interval between each sweep with online monitoring of the visual feed back at 15% of maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) of each jaw gape from MAR. The results showed that the peak-to-peak amplitude of the jaw-stretch reflex in MAR was significantly higher at 14mm compared to 30, 34, and 38mm (P<0.038), whereas the reflex amplitude in TAR increased with jaw gape until a maximum at 34mm. There was no significant effect of jaw gape in LPR muscles (P=0.825) and no obvious stretch reflex was observed in ADR. When the amplitude was normalised to the pre-stimulus EMG at each jaw gape, the highest normalised amplitude was observed at 14mm jaw gape in MAR, however there was no significant effect of jaw gape on the normalised amplitude in TAR and LPR. In addition, masseter EMG at MVC significantly decreased with the increase of the gapes, i.e. biting at 6, 14, and 18mm gapes had a significantly higher MVC compared to 26, 30, 34, and 38mm (ANOVA: P<0.013). It is concluded that the jaw gapes influence the sensitivity of the human muscle spindle afferents in jaw-closing muscles with a distinct peak, which is within normal jaw gapes during function.
Sensory and motor trigeminal evoked potentials to localize the position of trigeminal electrodes.	Analysis of verbal responses to electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion and rootlets has been the only method available so far to localize the electrode tip in the most appropriate trigeminal division or division segment, prior to thermocoagulation during percutaneous treatment for trigeminal neuralgia. A diversity of factors may lead to unreliable verbal responses, resulting in increased morbidity or even therapeutic failure. In an attempt to enhance the accuracy of electrode localization during Sweet's procedure, we describe an electrophysiological method complementary to clinical responses. Sensory trigeminal evoked potentials (STEPs) induced by separate successive orthodromic cutaneous stimulation of the three trigeminal divisions and recorded by the isolated tip of a transoval thermocouple electrode, together with motor trigeminal evoked potentials (MTEPs) elicited by stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion and recorded in the ipsilateral temporal muscle, were sequentially examined in six patients undergoing percutaneous tic treatment during gradual rostro-caudal electrode withdrawal. STEPs and MTEPs showed appropriate correlation with verbal and clinical motor responses at each electrode site. General anaesthesia failed to affect STEPs. Systematic exploration in the awake patient of both verbal and clinical motor responses, together with STEPs and MTEPs, is therefore recommended prior to the induction of radiofrequency lesions in the course of percutaneous treatment for trigeminal neuralgia.
EMG analysis of exteroceptive suppression of temporal muscle activity in tension headache]	In modification of a method published by Schoenen et al., early (ES 1) and late (ES 2) exteroceptive suppression periods elicited by perioral electrical trigeminus-stimulation during teeth-clenching were recorded with surface electrodes over the temporalis muscles. 29 patients with chronic tension headache, 20 with migraine, 7 patients with combined tension headache and migraine and 19 controls were examined. Duration of the late suppression period for the mean of three single shocks was highly significantly reduced in chronic tension headache sufferers and patients with combined tension headache and migraine when compared with migraine cases or controls. These results are in agreement with those of Schoenen et al. EMG analysis of temporalis late exteroceptive suppression is a helpful diagnostic method in primary headache. The reduction of ES 2 in chronic tension headache sufferers might suggest a deficient activation or excessive inhibition of the motoric trigeminus nucleus by pontobulbar inhibitory neurons which receive a strong input from limbic and nociceptive structures.
Refinements in smile reanimation: 10-year experience with the lengthening Temporalis Myoplasty.	The lengthening Temporalis Myoplasty (LTM) is an innovative dynamic facial reanimation procedure that has been used to great effect following its conception during the early 1990s by the senior author. Since its first description in the literature the technique has been refined and it has become clear from correspondence that certain technical aspects of the procedure require particular attention to detail. We discuss from experience of more than a hundred cases and highlight not only the important technical aspects of the procedure but also the importance of pre-operative assessment and the avoidance of complications.
Contemporary techniques for the correction of temporal hollowing:  augmentation temporoplasty with the classic dermal fat graft.	Temporal hollowing is a depression within the soft tissues overlying the temporal fossa, sometimes seen after surgical dissection for access to the facial skeleton. Surgeons have successfully used bone grafts, hydroxyapatite, methyl methacrylate, and autogenous tissue to correct the deformity. A systematic review of the literature demonstrated that the most popular technique for the correction of temporal hollowing seems to be the use of nonbiologic materials. These materials have been used successfully but are associated with some complications. There has been a growing experience with augmentation of the soft tissues of the temporal fossa using dermal fat grafts at our institutions, and this article describes this experience.
The occurrence of muscle spindles in the masticatory muscles: a methodological study of different staining techniques.	A method, based on experiment, for more reliable and less time-consuming staining and examination of histological specimens for locating muscle spindles by light microscopy is presented. Sections from the masseter and temporal muscles of the rat were stained with different methods and studied in random order. The method giving the highest number of muscle spindles during scrutiny of the slides (Weigert's iron haematoxylin and van Gieson) is recommended for future studies on the numbers of muscle spindles in a given muscle.
Interpretation of fusimotor activity in cat masseter nerve during reflex jaw movements.	Simultaneous recordings were made from fusimotor axons in the central ends of filaments of the masseter nerve, and from masseter and temporalis spindle afferents in the mesencephalic nucleus of the fifth cranial nerve in lightly anaesthetized cats. Fusimotor and alpha-motor units in the masseter nerve were differentiated on the basis of their response to passive ramp and hold stretches applied to the jaw. Spindle afferents were identified as primary or secondary according to their dynamic index after administration of suxamethonium. The activity of a given fusimotor unit during reflex movements of the jaw followed one of two distinct patterns: so-called 'tonic' units showed a general increase in activity during a movement, without detailed relation to lengthening or shortening, while 'modulated' units displayed a striking modulation of their activity with shortening, and were usually silent during subsequent lengthening. Comparison of the simultaneously recorded fusimotor and spindle afferent activity suggests that modulated units may be representative of a population of static fusimotor neurones, and tonic units of a population of dynamic fusimotor neurones. In these lightly anaesthetized animals, both primary and secondary spindle afferents showed increased firing during muscle shortening as well as during lengthening. This increase during shortening is not usually seen in conscious animals and reasons are given for the view that it is due to greater depression of alpha-motor activity than of static fusimotor activity during anaesthesia. The results are discussed in relation to the theories of 'alpha-gamma co-activation' and of 'servo-assistance'; and it is suggested that static fusimotor neurones provide a 'temporal template' of the intended movement, while dynamic fusimotor neurones set the required dynamic sensitivity to deviations from the intended movement pattern.
Differences in monosynaptic EPSPs elicited by masseter and temporalis spindle afferents in anaesthetised rats.	We have used the intracellular variant of the spike triggered averaging method to examine the monosynaptic connexions of masseter and temporalis spindle afferents on jaw-elevator motoneurones. Temporalis spindle afferents elicited larger averaged EPSPs in motoneurones than masseter spindle afferents, in part because transmission at synapses of temporalis afferents was associated with lower incidences of failures. We conclude that EPSP amplitude in this motor system in governed, at least in part, by the presynaptic neurone rather than the identity of the postsynaptic neurone.
