Spontaneous motor activity in the perinatal infant before and after birth: stability in individual differences.	This study was undertaken to determine if a relationship existed between the duration of spontaneous general movements before and after birth. Twenty-two infants were examined three times as fetuses between 38 and 40 weeks gestational age and three times as neonates between 2 and 4 weeks postnatal age. Motor activity level during active sleep periods was quantified by direct sonographic visualization for fetuses and by videotaped images of trunk movement for neonates. We found that both fetuses and neonates exhibited stable individual differences in motor activity level. In addition, infants who moved at a certain rate as fetuses generally moved at the same relative rate as neonates up to 4-weeks postnatal age. Our findings suggested that individual differences in motor activity level in the 1st month following birth probably arise during fetal life.
Temperament traits in seasonal affective disorder, suicide attempters with non-seasonal major depression and healthy controls.	Very few studies have compared the temperament traits in matched suicidal and non-suicidal patients with major depression.
The relationship of dysfunctional attitudes to personality in depressed patients.	To examine the relationship between dysfunctional attitudes and personality in depressed patients.
Effects of chorion type on neonatal temperament differences in monozygotic twin pairs.	Monozygotic (MZ) twins with a known chorion type were assessed in the neonatal period to determine if placentation was related to twin similarity in early temperament development. The sample included 48 pairs with monochorionic placentas and 29 pairs with dichorionic placentas. The assessment focused on irritability, resistance to soothing, activity while awake, activity during sleep, reactivity, and reinforcement value. There were no differences between the monochorionic and the dichorionic twins in any of the temperament ratings. Chorion type was not related to cotwin similarity on any of the temperament ratings. It was concluded that differences in prenatal environment reflected in placentation type did not affect early temperament for MZ twins.
Managing the temperamental employee.	In today's fast-paced, competitive, and quality-centered health care environment, dealing effectively with a temperamental employee and the resultant impact on the organization presents particular challenges. Considerations include the requirement of timely action in order to alleviate the real problems of unprofessional behavior in the workplace. This article discusses the major issues associated with such situations, including why there often is a reluctance for management to take action, the consequences that are accentuated by inaction, prescriptions for preventing the problem, and steps to be taken in dealing effectively with the temperamental employee.
Possible confounding variables on the flicker-fusion frequency: temperament, well-being, cognitive information processing speed]	The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of the response criterion, the current well-being, and the speed of cognitive processing on fusion and flicker frequency measured by method of limits, in 65 healthy subjects, aged between 20 and 30 years. The findings demonstrated that the fusion and flicker frequency could not be measured exactly. Evaluation of the reliability of the obtained results was not possible, mainly because the necessary basic psychological variables could not be recorded using the method.
Investigations of temperament at three to seven years: the Children's Behavior Questionnaire.	This article reviews evidence on the reliability and validity of the Children's Behavior Questionnaire (CBQ), and presents CBQ data on the structure of temperament in childhood. The CBQ is a caregiver report measure designed to provide a detailed assessment of temperament in children 3 to 7 years of age. Individual differences are assessed on 15 primary temperament characteristics: Positive Anticipation, Smiling/Laughter, High Intensity Pleasure, Activity Level, Impulsivity, Shyness, Discomfort, Fear, Anger/Frustration, Sadness, Soothability, Inhibitory Control, Attentional Focusing, Low Intensity Pleasure, and Perceptual Sensitivity. Factor analyses of CBQ scales reliably recover a three-factor solution indicating three broad dimensions of temperament: Extraversion/Surgency, Negative Affectivity, and Effortful Control. This three-factor solution also appears to be reliably recovered in ratings of children in other cultures (e.g., China and Japan). Evidence for convergent validity derives from confirmation of hypothesized relations between temperament and socialization-relevant traits. In addition, parental agreement on CBQ ratings is substantial. The CBQ scales demonstrate adequate internal consistency, and may be used in studies requiring a highly differentiated yet integrated measure of temperament for children in this age range.
A twin study of attachment in preschool children.	The degree to which individual differences in child-parent attachment were mediated by genetic, shared environmental, and nonshared environmental influences was investigated. One hundred and ten preschool-aged twin pairs (N = 220) were assessed in the Strange Situation and coded using conventional four-way classifications and a continuous measure of attachment security. The degree of sibling similarity in attachment was substantial, with an overall concordance rate of 67% at the secure/insecure level. The degree of concordance was equally high in monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs, 70% and 64%, respectively, suggesting little genetic influence but a moderate degree of discordance. Twin similarity on the continuous measure of attachment security was r(57) = .48 and r(53) = .38 for monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs, respectively, also consistent with a modest role for genetic influence but a significant effect for shared and nonshared environment. The implications for genetic influences on the environment and for understanding nonshared and shared environmental influences are discussed.
Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) personality profile and sub-typing in alcoholic patients: a controlled study.	Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) personality profile was used to compare alcohol-dependent patients with non-psychiatric control subjects, and a search made for sub-types of alcoholics with different TCI profiles, using the criteria age of onset of alcohol-related problems, paternal dependence on alcohol and familial antecedents of alcohol dependence. Alcohol-dependent patients (n = 38) were characterized by higher Novelty-Seeking [corresponding to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th edition) group B personality type] and lower Self-Directedness than non-psychiatric control subjects (n = 47). Lower Self-Directedness indicates a higher probability of personality disorder in the alcohol-dependent population. Only age of onset of alcohol-related problems delineated the two sub-populations with different TCI profiles: early-onset alcoholics (< or =25 years of age, n = 19), but not late-onset ones (n = 16), in comparison with control subjects, were associated with higher Novelty-Seeking. Both early and late-onset patients scored lower on Self-Directedness than control subjects. Self-Directedness and Cooperation scores were lower in early-onset than in late-onset patients. These results in part support Cloninger's typology, and the TCI data add to evidence concerning a higher probability of personality disorder in alcohol-dependent patients, particularly those with early-onset.
Anxiety and fear behaviors in adult male and female C57BL/6 mice are modulated by maternal separation.	This study investigated the effects of maternal separation in C57BL/6 male and female mice during infancy on later adult fear and anxiety behaviors. Additionally, we observed the maternal behavior of the dams to examine aspects of maternal care that may be modulated by daily bouts of separation. In males, mice that experienced maternal separation during the neonatal period displayed significantly higher levels of anxiety and fear behavior, as measured by the open field test and elevated plus maze, compared to control, standard facility reared males. In females, however, maternal separation reduced anxiety and fear behavior in the open field test, but only when the females were in the diestrous phase of their estrous cycle. The 30-min daily observation of the dams revealed that the separation did not significantly alter the frequency of the maternal care provided by the dam at the time point measured. These results indicate that the emotionality of adult male and female mice can be modulated by maternal separation. However, this effect is dependent on the sex of the offspring and the phase of the estrous cycle of the female.
Individual differences in children's performance during an emotional Stroop task: a behavioral and electrophysiological study.	Two studies using the emotional Stroop with 11-year-old children were completed. In Study 1, children were assigned to either the "interference group" or the "facilitation group" based on their performance on the task. The interference group was slower to respond to emotion words (positive and negative) versus control words. The facilitation group was faster to respond to the emotion words. The groups were then compared on a set of cognitive, emotional, and social measures collected at ages 4, 7, and 11. The interference group showed greater signs of emotional and social, but not cognitive, maladjustment across time. Study 2 replicated the findings of Study 1. In addition, event-related potentials (ERPs) were collected in Study 2. The ERP data replicated earlier traditional Stroop studies. In addition, positive and negative words showed differences in processing across components. In particular, negative words appeared to tax attentional and processing resources more than positive words.
Inhibited and uninhibited infants "grown up": adult amygdalar response to novelty.	Infants with an inhibited temperament tend to develop into children who avoid people, objects, and situations that are novel or unfamiliar, whereas uninhibited children spontaneously approach novel persons, objects, and situations. Behavioral and physiological features of these two temperamental categories are moderately stable from infancy into early adolescence and have been hypothesized to be due, in part, to variation in amygdalar responses to novelty. We found that adults who had been categorized in the second year of life as inhibited, compared with those previously categorized as uninhibited, showed greater functional MRI signal response within the amygdala to novel versus familiar faces.
Maternal panic disorder: infant temperament, neurophysiology, and parenting behaviors.	To determine whether 4- and 14-month-old infants of mothers with panic disorder (PD) would be more likely to show differences in temperament, neurophysiology (salivary cortisol and sleep), and relationships with their mothers than controls.
Punishment insensitivity and parenting: temperament and learning as interacting risks for antisocial behavior.	We review ideas about individual differences in sensitivity or responsiveness to common disciplinary behaviors parents use to correct aggressive and antisocial behavior in children. At extremes, children may be seen as "punishment-insensitive," an heuristic with some value relevant to models of the development of antisocial and aggressive behavior disorders. Literature from diverse fields, such as psychopathy, child temperament, socialization and the development of moral conscience, conditioning theory, and personality theory, have all utilized the idea that humans differ in their sensitivity to aversive stimuli and the cues that signal their occurrence, as well as their ability to inhibit reward-driven behavior, in the presence of punishment cues. Contemporary thinking places these dispositions squarely as basic biological aspects of temperament that moderate the effects of the environment (e.g., parenting) on outcomes (e.g., mental health). We review a largely forgotten literature that shows clearly that sensitivity to punishment is also reliably influenced by the environment itself. An attempt is then made to model the interactional processes by which parenting and punishment sensitivities in children magnify or diminish each other's progress toward healthy or antisocial development. Implications for parenting of children with low responsiveness to punishment strategies are discussed.
Relationships between the family's way of functioning and children's temperament as rated by parents of pre-term children.	This study examined the relationships between parents' perceptions of their family's way of functioning and their pre-term child's temperament. Forty-seven parents of infants born before the gestation age (GA) of 28 weeks during 1991, 1994 and 1997 answered the Family Relations Scale (FARS) and the Temperament Scale. One family function factor, enmeshment, was significantly higher in families with pre-term children than in other families, thus indicating certain difficulties in the inner life of the family (p < 0.001). Parents' perceptions of their pre-term child's temperament did not differ from those of other parents. There was a strong correlation both between temperament dimensions and the family's way of functioning (p < 0.0001) and between single-dimension impulsivity and the total scores for the family's way of functioning (p < 0.01).
Mismatch negativity in socially withdrawn children.	Individual differences in auditory processing have been associated with social withdrawal, introversion, and other forms of dysfunction in social engagement. The goal of this study was to investigate the characteristics of an electrophysiologic response that is seen to index early cortical auditory processing (mismatch negativity, MMN) among socially withdrawn and more sociable control children.
Physiological and neurocognitive correlates of adaptive behavior in preschool among children in Head Start.	This study examined physiological and neurocognitive correlates of teacherreported adaptive behavior in preschool among children in Head Start. Child physiology was assessed by cardiac vagal tone and was measured during a baseline period and during the administration of a mildly effortful cognitive task. Neurocognitive function was measured using two tasks of executive function, which require children to inhibit a prepotent response, while remembering and executing the rule for correct responding. Parents reported on aspects of child negative emotionality associated with fear and anger. Information on child receptive language ability was also collected. Although correlates of teacher-reported social competence and on-task behavior were expected to be similar, some evidence for differentiation was obtained. Results indicated that higher resting vagal tone, vagal increase during the administration of the cognitive task, and higher levels of fearful emotionality were related to higher ratings of social competence, after adjusting for levels of on-task behavior. In contrast, lower resting vagal tone, vagal suppression in response to the cognitive task, and higher levels of executive function were associated with higher teacher ratings of on-task behavior, adjusted for social competence. Implications are considered of findings for developmental relations between social and academic competence and adaptation to preschool among children in Head Start.
Situational, maternal, and infant influences on parenting stress among adolescent mothers.	This longitudinal study compared infant care competence, infant temperament, and parenting stress of younger (less than 17 years) and older (greater than or equal to 17 years) adolescent mothers. Relationships were examined between situational, maternal infant care competence, and infant temperament. Staged multiple regression was used to quantify the role of various situational, maternal, and infant characteristics as predictors of parenting stress. A convenience sample of 78 adolescent mothers was recruited from two major teaching hospitals in Winnipeg, Canada. No significant age group differences were found for infant care competence or parenting stress. However, younger adolescent mothers reported more difficult infant temperament, t = 2.24, p =.03. A significant Pearson correlation was found between the Mom&Baby subscale of the Infant Care Questionnaire (ICQ) and the Parenting Stress Index (PSI) subscale, Relationship with Spouse, r =.59, p =.01. The Emotionality subscale of the ICQ was significantly associated with both the PSI subscales of Depression, r =.52, p =.006, and Relationship with Spouse, r =.50, p =.02. A second-stage multiple regression model that included situational (social support), infant (difficult temperament), and maternal (emotionality) variables significantly explained both total parent stress domain scores, R2 =.46, p =.04, and the depression subscale, R2 =.66, p =.000. While the study findings suggest that situational, infant temperament, and infant care competence variables together predict parenting stress, confirmation of study findings with larger and more diverse samples is required. The finding that difficult temperament and enacted social support were the most salient predictors of parenting stress underscores the need for nurses to evaluate these parenting factors.
Polymorphisms of DRD4 and DRD3 and risk of avoidant and obsessive personality traits and disorders.	We investigated whether polymorphisms of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) and polymorphisms of the dopamine D3 receptor (DRD3) were associated with personality disorder symptomatology rather than with personality traits such as novelty seeking. DNA was obtained from 145 depressed patients in a clinical trial. These patients were assessed for the presence of personality disorder symptoms and disorders. The 2-repeat allele of the DRD4 exon III polymorphism was associated with increased rates of avoidant and obsessive personality disorder symptomatology. The T,T genotype of the DRD4 -521 C>T polymorphism was also associated with increased rates of avoidant and obsessive personality disorder symptomatology. The Gly9,Gly9 genotype of the DRD3 Ser9Gly polymorphism was associated with increased rates of obsessive personality disorder symptomatology. None of these three polymorphisms were associated with novelty seeking or other temperament traits on the Temperament and Character Inventory. Our results suggest that genetic polymorphisms of DRD4 and DRD3 may well be associated with personality traits, and that conflicting findings to date may arise from the problem of phenotype definition.
Dimensions of temperament and bright light response in seasonal affective disorder.	Scale scores on the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ)-novelty seeking (NS), harm avoidance (HA), and reward dependence (RD)-can predict response to antidepressants. This study examined 89 patients with Bipolar Disorder (I, II) or Major Depressive Disorder, both with recurrent winter seasonal pattern. The TPQ was administered while the patients were depressed, following 10-14 days of bright light therapy (30 min, 10,000 lux) and after spontaneous springtime remission. The Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-Seasonal Affective Disorder Version (SIGH-SAD) assessed the severity of depression. At baseline, there were no significant differences between diagnostic subgroups or responders and non-responders on the TPQ or SIGH-SAD scales, though baseline RD scores were significantly higher in women than men. Furthermore, neither severity of depression nor magnitude of post-treatment clinical improvement was significantly correlated with baseline TPQ scores. Only HA scores decreased after treatment, with responders showing the greatest effect. HA scores also decreased from the baseline to springtime assessments for the group as a whole, with no difference between responders and non-responders. This is the first study to demonstrate that HA is state- rather than trait-dependent in seasonal affective disorder. The TPQ dimensions of temperament do not predict response to light therapy.
Temperament and its implications for neuroimaging of anxiety disorders.	We review the attributes of inhibited and uninhibited infant temperaments, and their developmental trajectories into early adulthood. Inborn individual differences in infants' propensity to respond to novel people and objects are associated with persistent differences in the responsivity of the amygdala to novelty, as measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging, after more than 20 years of development. Because an inhibited temperament is a risk factor for developing later psychiatric disorders, particularly generalized social anxiety disorder, temperamental differences are confounds in neuroimaging and genetic studies. Longitudinal studies are a unique tool for understanding the developmental and temperamental risk factors for psychiatric disorder.
Serotonin transporter gene polymorphism and personality traits in primary alcohol dependence.	We tested the hypothesis of an association between the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene regulatory region polymorphism and the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) personality dimension of Harm Avoidance. For the study, 124 subjects seeking inpatient treatment for primary alcohol dependence were grouped by their 5-HTT genotype and assessed with the TCI. Genotypes differed statistically significantly in Harm Avoidance but not in any other personality trait. This gives support to the hypothesis that the TCI temperament Harm Avoidance is associated with serotonergic neurotransmission in primary alcohol dependence.
Human personality dimensions of persistence and harm avoidance associated with DRD4 and 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms.	The associations of human personality traits as measured by the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) with two genetic polymorphisms, the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) gene exon III repeat polymorphism (VNTR) and the serotonin transporter-linked functional polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) are presented in a population of 157 ethnically homogeneous Caucasians. No association was found between Novelty Seeking and the DRD4 VNTR, but male individuals with a 7-repeat allele exhibited significantly lower Persistence scores. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism itself had no significant effect on any of the temperament dimensions, but a significant DRD4 VNTR x 5-HTTLPR interaction was observed for Harm Avoidance, the subgroup with a s/s 5-HTTLPR, 7-repeat DRD4 genotype showed a higher mean Harm Avoidance score than the other groups. These results are discussed in relation to the recent findings on infant temperament. Association between the DRD4 7-repeat allele and Persistence can be theoretically linked to the 7-repeat allele as a risk factor for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
A four-fold humanity: Margaret Mead and psychological types.	Beginning in 1933, while working in New Guinea, Margaret Mead developed her so-called squares hypothesis. Mead never published its terms, though she made a brief comment on it in her autobiography, Blackberry Winter (1972), and the arguments found in Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies (1935) and the research leading to Balinese Character (Bateson & Mead, 1942) bore its imprint. Beginning with William McDougall's distinction between temperament (innate predispositions) and character (learned organization of habit), Mead articulated a morphological approach to the interplay between biology and culture that yielded four primary and four intermediary personality types. Under specified but not inevitable circumstances, the conscious choices of a given people could render one or another of these types characteristic or predominantly stable within their population, giving each of the other types a definite relation to the dominant type and thereby the cultural ethos of its society. Persons of each type followed a developmental path specific to their type different both from that of other types and in its manifestations given the various relations of the individual's type to the dominant type. Mead's hypothesis was, therefore, a vision of the unity and diversity of a single human species as well as an approach to the differing psychological positioning of individuals in cultures. In examining Mead's hypothesis, this essay also takes up Mead's debts to several leading psychologists (McDougall, C. G. Jung, and Erik Erikson), and (provisionally) how her vision differed from that of Ruth Benedict.
High neuroticism and depressive temperament are associated with dysfunctional regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical system in healthy volunteers.	Elevated neuroticism, depressive temperament and dysfunctional regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system are considered as risk factors for unipolar depression. An interaction of these vulnerability factors was suggested, but controversially discussed. In absence of other informative studies we set out for a replication test and for elucidation of the underlying mechanism.
Effect of initial COD concentration, nutrient addition, temperature and microbial acclimation on anaerobic treatability of broiler and cattle manure.	In this study, anaerobic treatability and biogas generation potential of broiler and cattle manure were investigated. For this purpose, seven sets of anaerobic batch reactor experiments were performed using broiler and cattle manure and their mixtures in five different ratios (100% broiler; 75% broiler, 25% cattle; 50% broiler, 50% cattle; 25% broiler, 75% cattle; 100% cattle). These manure mixtures had two different initial chemical oxygen demand (COD) (12,000 and 53,500 mg/l) concentrations. The effects of initial COD concentration, nutrient and trace metal supplementation, microbial acclimation and digestion temperature were investigated. Results revealed that the efficiency of total COD removal was 32.0-43.3% and 37.9-50% for initial COD concentrations of 12,000 and 53,500 mg/l, respectively. The biogas yields observed for initial COD concentrations of 12,000 and 53,500 mg/l were 180-270 and 223-368 ml gas/g COD added, respectively. A decrease in biogas yield was observed as the fraction of broiler manure increased in mixture of broiler and cattle manure at initial COD values of 53,500 mg/l.
Stress reactivity in 15-month-old infants: links with infant temperament, cognitive competence, and attachment security.	In a sample of eighty-five 15-month-old infants, salivary cortisol was obtained prior to and following a potentially stressful episode in which the child was confronted with a stranger and with a frightening robot. Infant characteristics such as anger proneness, cognitive competence, and attachment security were expected to be related to cortisol reactivity during the stressful event. The results showed higher cortisol reactivity in more anger-prone infants and in infants with higher levels of cognitive development as assessed with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development (N. Bayley, 1969). Attachment security, assessed with the Attachment Q-Set (AQS; E. Waters, 1995), was found to moderate the relation between cognitive level and cortisol reactivity; the positive relation between cognitive development and cortisol response was found in only infants with low AQS security scores. The findings may have important implications for research in the development of self-regulation in humans as well as in studies with animals.
Emotion regulation as a scientific construct: methodological challenges and directions for child development research.	Emotion regulation has emerged as a popular topic, but there is doubt about its viability as a scientific construct. This article identifies conceptual and methodological challenges in this area of study and describes exemplar studies that provide a substantive basis for inferring emotion regulation. On the basis of those studies, 4 methods are described that provide compelling evidence for emotion regulation: independent measurement of activated emotion and purported regulatory processes; analysis of temporal relations; measurement across contrasting conditions; and multiple, convergent measures. By offering this perspective, this article aims to engage thoughtful debate and critical analysis, with the goal of increasing methodological rigor and advancing an understanding of emotion regulation as a scientific construct.
Emotion-related regulation: sharpening the definition.	Cole, Martin, and Dennis (this issue) considered many important conceptual and methodological issues in their discussion of emotion regulation. Although it may be necessary to develop an integrated definition of the construct of emotion regulation, the definition provided in the Cole et al. article is too encompassing. It is important to differentiate emotion regulation from the effects of emotions on others and to differentiate among (a) regulation that stems from individuals external to the child versus behavior that is accomplished by the child, (b) behavior that is goal oriented versus unintentional, and (c) regulation that is voluntary versus behavior that is less voluntarily controlled. An alternate definition of emotion-related self-regulation is provided.
Children's temperament and behavior problems predict their employed mothers' work functioning.	Numerous studies have been conducted on the impact of dual-earner parents' employment on their children, yet the reverse process-the impact of children and their behavior on the work functioning of their parents-has been ignored. This study investigated spillover from the mother role to the work role in a sample of more than 300 families. At 4 months, 12 months, 3.5 years, and 4.5 years of age, child's difficult temperament was significantly associated with mother's work outcomes, including work role quality and rewards from combining work and family. The evidence was consistent with a structural model in which maternal sense of parenting competence and maternal depressed affect mediated these effects.
Ethnic differences in the link between physical discipline and later adolescent externalizing behaviors.	Parents' use of physical discipline has generated controversy related to concerns that its use is associated with adjustment problems such as aggression and delinquency in children. However, recent evidence suggests that there are ethnic differences in associations between physical discipline and children's adjustment. This study examined race as a moderator of the link between physical discipline and adolescent externalizing behavior problems, extending previous research beyond childhood into adolescence and considering physical discipline at multiple points in time.
Substance use among high-school students: relationships with temperament, personality traits, and parental care perception.	Alcohol use, "alcohol abuse," and illicit drug use were investigated in a representative sample of 1076 urban, northern Italian high school students aged 14 to 19 years in 2001. In addition to questions on substance use, the participants were asked about school achievements and perceived substance use among friends. All the students were submitted to Zuckerman Sensation Seeking Scale (SSS) scale, Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ), Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory (BDHI), and Parental Bonding Instrument (PBI). Lifetime alcohol use was found in 80.5%, "alcohol abuse" in 37.7%, cannabis use in 26.2%, ecstasy in 2.8%, heroin in 3.8%, and cocaine in 8.3% of the students: gender differences were significant for alcohol use, "alcohol abuse" and ecstasy use, with male subjects outnumbering females, but not for reported cannabis, heroin, and cocaine use. Early substance use onset among adolescents aged 14-16 years was detected. Higher sensation seeking on SSS, social coping impairment on EPQ, direct aggressiveness on BDHI, poor school achievements, and lower parental care on PBI were found associated with illicit drug use and "alcohol abuse" (multiple drugs users). Increased levels of aggressiveness and sensation seeking were evidenced both in minimal experimenters (ME) and habitual users (HU), without any significant difference, in comparison with abstinent students. Similarly, ME scored higher than abstinent subjects on EPQ for social coping impairment, but lower than HU. Parental care perception was lower in HU, but not in ME with, respect to abstinent subjects. Pearson inverse correlation was demonstrated between PBI scores and EPQ maladaptation and BDHI aggressiveness. Data from this preliminary pilot study suggest that temperamental traits and personality changes may be associated to early substance use "proneness" and reduced perception of parental care.
Predictors of effortful control among children of alcoholic and nonalcoholic fathers.	The purpose of this study was (1) to examine the association between fathers' alcoholism and children's effortful control and (2) to examine the role of parental warmth and toddler temperament as mediators or moderators of this relationship.
Longitudinal relations between child vagal tone and parenting behavior: 2 to 4 years.	The longitudinal relations between physiological markers of child emotion regulation and maternal parenting practices were examined from 2 to 4 years of age. At Time 1, cardiac vagal tone was assessed for one hundred four 2-year-olds (54 females); their mothers completed an assessment of parenting styles. Two years later, at Time 2, 84 of the original participants were reassessed on measures of cardiac vagal tone and parenting style. Results indicated both baseline cardiac vagal tone and maternal parenting practices to be stable from 2 to 4 years of age. Children's cardiac vagal tone predicted specific parenting practices from the toddler to preschool years. Further, child cardiac vagal tone moderated maternal restrictive-parenting practices from 2 to 4 years of age; mothers of children who were highly or moderately physiologically dysregulated were more likely to report restrictive parenting practices at both 2 and 4 years of age.
A large population cohort provides normative data for investigation of temperament.	We evaluated the psychometric properties of widely used scales for assessing temperament in a large birth cohort. We simultaneously compared the properties of the temperament dimensions of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) and of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI).
Risk factors for childhood overweight: a prospective study from birth to 9.5 years.	To ascertain risk factors for the development of overweight in children at 9.5 years of age.
Sport activity in children and adolescents: temperament and emotional traits]	Aim of this study is to evaluate anxiety and temperament characteristics in developmental age subjects who practised agonistic sport (individual or team sports) in comparison with a sample group of subjects who practice no agonistic sports.
The role of person versus situation in life satisfaction: a critical examination.	Two main theoretical approaches have been put forward to explain individual differences in life satisfaction: top-down (i.e., personological) and bottom-up (i.e., situational). The authors examine the relative merit of these 2 approaches and the psychological processes underlying top-down models. Consistent with a top-down approach, meta-analytic findings indicate that Neuroticism, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness are related to both various domain satisfactions and life satisfaction; however, consistent with a bottom-up approach, domain satisfactions are strongly linked to life satisfaction but only weakly linked to each other. Path analyses based on meta-analytic estimates did not support a simple "direct-effects" top-down model but supported both (a) a temperament-based top-down model and (b) an integrative model that incorporates the direct influence of domain satisfactions on life satisfaction.
Individual differences in executive attention predict self-regulation and adolescent psychosocial behaviors.	This study examined temperament, executive attention, parental monitoring and relationships, and involvement in pro- and antisocial behaviors in an ethnically diverse sample of adolescents. We sought to relate parent- and self-reported effortful control to performance on measures of executive attention and to better understand the relative contributions of individual-difference variables and environmental variables in predicting behaviors in adolescence. The results indicated a relationship between poor executive attention and mother-reported effortful control. Inclusion of individual-difference variables significantly increased prediction of problem-behavior scores, suggesting the importance of including such variables in studies of adolescent deviance.
Myelomeningocele, temperament patterns, and parental perceptions.	Description of temperament profiles of children has largely been reported in typically developing populations. Children undergo individualized assessments of achievement (developmental/academic) and receive individualized interventions. In contrast, their individual behavioral styles are not evaluated as completely, if at all. For children with developmental disabilities, description of temperament characteristics can provide better understanding of the already complex child. This study describes temperament characteristics in a group of children with myelomeningocele and shunted hydrocephalus (MM/SH).
Effects of repeated prenatal ultrasound examinations on childhood outcome up to 8 years of age: follow-up of a randomised controlled trial.	Despite the widespread use of prenatal ultrasound studies, there are no published data from randomised controlled trials describing childhood outcomes that might be influenced by repeated ultrasound exposures. We previously undertook a randomised controlled trial to assess the effects of multiple studies on pregnancy and childhood outcomes and reported that those pregnancies allocated to receive multiple examinations had an unexplained and significant increase in the proportion of growth restricted newborns. Our aim was to investigate the possible effects of multiple prenatal ultrasound scans on growth and development in childhood. Here, we provide follow-up data of the childrens' development.
Temperament and character inventory in homicidal, nonaddicted paranoid schizophrenic patients: a preliminary study.	This study assessed the personalities of 13 murderer schizophrenics using Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory, controlling different factors such as institution, treatment, detention or loss of liberty, and can discriminate between schizophrenic patients involved in homicide, schizophrenics with no past violent behavior, paranoiac murderers, and imprisoned murderers with no psychiatric history. Results show significantly that murderer schizophrenics had significantly higher scores on the subscale, Self-transcendence, than other groups, which suggests that Self-transcendence as measured may be an aggravating factor for schizophrenia and may be found in the personality of schizophrenic subjects who performed homicidal acts. This dimension constitutes a way and an additional element for diagnosis not available with the DSM-IV criteria. It may help understanding and predicting violent behavior among schizophrenic patients.
Evaluation of typical psychopathic traits with juvenile offenders]	The concept of psychopathy has received many definitions for the first days of psychiatry. Recently, the Hare's Psychopathy Check List Revised has been created. This scale has the advantage to investigate the classically characteristic traits of the syndrome (need of stimulation, lack of culpability, superficial activity, lack of empathy, impassivity) and to point out the early development of behavior disturbances. In the American classification (DSM IV), oppositional and aggressive behavior in child and adolescent is grouped under the Conduct Disorder diagnostic criteria. This trouble appears to be a strong predictive factor of psychopathy in adult. Identifying the high risk factors of evolution to psychopathic personality would allow an earlier intervention and prevention by multisystemic interventions for example. The present study aims to evaluate in what measure characteristic traits of psychopathy in adults are present in severe juvenile offenders and to point out, in a second time, the differences between adolescents meeting the DSM IV criteria for Conduct Disorder and a control population by a dimensional personality inventory.
Adult shyness: the interaction of temperamental sensitivity and an adverse childhood environment.	This article examines the relation between adult shyness and sensory-processing sensitivity and posits a new model in which the interaction of sensitivity and adverse childhood environment leads to negative affectivity (with the highly sensitive being more impacted), which in turn leads to shyness. Consistent with this model, two questionnaire studies (Ns = 96 and 213) supported three hypotheses: (a) sensory-processing sensitivity interacts with recalled quality of childhood parental environment to predict shyness, (b) sensory-processing sensitivity interacts in the same way with childhood environment to predict negative affectivity, and (c) the interaction effect on negative affectivity mediates the effect on shyness. Hypothesis 2 was tested and supported in an additional questionnaire study (N = 393) and also in an experiment (N = 160) that manipulated negative contemporaneous experience as an analog for adverse childhood environment.
Temperament correlates with training success in adult rhesus macaques.	In recent years there has been a marked increase in awareness of issues involving the psychological well-being of nonhuman primates (NHPs) used in biomedical research. As a result, many facilities are starting to train primates to voluntarily cooperate with veterinary, husbandry, and research procedures, such as remaining still for blood draws or injections. Such training generally reduces the stress associated with these procedures, resulting in calmer animals and, ultimately, better research models. However, such training requires great investments in time, and there can be vast individual differences in training success. Some animals learn tasks quickly, while others make slower progress in training. In this study, we examined whether temperament, as measured by response to a novel food object, correlated with the amount of time it took to train 20 adult female rhesus macaques to perform a simple task. The monkeys were categorized as "exploratory" (i.e., inspected a novel object placed in the home cage within 10 sec), "moderate" (i.e., inspected the object within 10-180 sec), or "inhibited" (i.e., did not inspect the object within 3 min). We utilized positive reinforcement techniques to train the monkeys to touch a target (PVC pipe shaped like an elbow) hung on their cage. Temperament correlated with training success in this study (Pearson chi2=7.22, df=2, P=0.03). We easily trained over 75% of the animals that inspected the novel food (i.e., exploratory or moderate individuals) to touch the target. However, only 22% of the inhibited monkeys performed the task. By knowing which animals may not respond to conventional training methods, we may be able to develop alternate training techniques to address their specific needs. In addition, these results will allow us to screen monkeys to be assigned to research projects in which they will be trained, with the goal of obtaining the best candidates for those studies.
Bold attitude makes male urban feral domestic cats more vulnerable to Feline Immunodeficiency Virus.	Individual differences in behaviour are a phenomenon that is more and more attracting the attention of scientists. Among the other reasons, behavioural individuality occurs because selection favours the adoption of different tactics by individuals. It is now widely recognized that within many vertebrate species, individuals vary along an axis the extremes of which are represented by individuals 'bold' and 'shy', sometimes called 'proactive' and 'reactive'. Here we present the case of feral domestic cats (Felis catus L.) living in group in the urban environment where showing bold attitudes is linked to the benefit of a high annual reproductive success but, on the other hand, to a high probability to be infected by the Feline Immunodeficiency Virus (FIV), a lethal disease caused by a retrovirus. In this species, natural selection has probably favoured proactive temperament in spite of the cost represented by getting the disease. In fact, proactive individuals, even if FIV positive, reproduce more than reactive individuals before the last stage of FIV-infection (AIDS) characterized by a loss of immunological defences and subsequent opportunistic infections. Evolutionary implications are discussed.
Temperament at 9 months of very preterm infants born at less than 29 weeks' gestation: the Epipage study.	The objective was to determine whether the temperament of very preterm singleton infants born before 29 weeks' gestation differs from their full-term counterparts at 9 months and to examine the influence of neurological sequelae on temperament in very preterm infants. The parents of very preterm infants from nine French regions and a group of full-term infants were sent the Infant Characteristics Questionnaire when the infants were 9 months old. The analysis included 266 singleton very preterm infants from the same regions born before 29 weeks' gestation and 546 full-term singleton infants. There were no significant differences for the Difficult, Unadaptable, and Unpredictable scales between very premature and term infants. Very preterm infants had a slightly higher Dull scale score than term infants. After taking into account mother's age, duration of hospitalization, and cerebral lesions found on neonatal ultrasound scans, this difference was no longer significant. Among very premature infants, those with cerebral lesions as diagnosed by neonatal ultrasound scan were rated higher on the Dull and Unadaptable scales. Delays in development at 9 months were also related to higher Dull and Unpredictable scales. These data suggest that prematurity does not affect temperament ratings at 9 months as assessed by the mother. However, very preterm infants with neurological insults, documented by the neonatal cerebral ultrasound or by a delay in development, are rated higher by their mothers on the Dull, Unadaptable, and Unpredictable scales.
Cloninger's temperament dimensions and affective responses to different challenges.	Cloninger's psychobiological model of temperament and character postulates that each of the temperament dimensions is associated with a specific emotional experience, depending on the situational cues. The aim of the present study was to test this postulate in a variety of challenging experimental tasks. The participants were 91 healthy young adults whose temperament was assessed with the temperament and character inventory. The subjects rated their emotions during each task and rest period using an adjective checklist. Novelty seeking was associated with dullness during monotonous and aversive situations and with a higher level of pleasantness during the initial baseline period and the appetitive situation. Harm avoidance was associated with higher levels of fear and unpleasant emotions and lower levels of positively valenced emotions. The present study provides support for the validity of Cloninger's temperament dimensions as predictors of emotional responses during different challenges. Especially, novelty seeking and harm avoidance appear to have a significant influence on emotional experience.
Maternal ratings of temperamental characteristics of healthy premature infants are indistinguishable from those of full-term infants.	To investigate whether prematurity itself, if not accompanied with serious medical risks, affects early temperamental characteristics, as measured by maternal ratings.
Relation of neonatal iron status to individual variability in neonatal temperament.	The relation between indices of neonatal iron status and individual differences in neonatal temperament were investigated in a sample of 148 low-income Peruvian women and their newborn infants. Using cord blood, at birth we obtained measures of neonatal ferritin, serum iron, and hemoglobin. While neonates were still in the hospital, their behavior during a structured anthropometry examination was videotaped and subsequently coded on four temperament dimensions: activity level, negative emotionality, alertness, and soothability. The same dimensions were coded using a videotape obtained during a subsequent visit to the neonates' homes. Results indicated that lower levels of neonatal hemoglobin and serum iron were related to higher levels of negative emotionality and to lower levels of alertness and soothability. A similar pattern was found for ferritin, but only for females. For the most part, relations between neonatal iron measures and neonatal temperament were linear, operating across the full range of iron values. Our pattern of iron-temperament results could not be attributed to variation in family demographics, low birth weight, gestational age, maternal dietary intake, or markers of neonatal illness and maternal diabetes. Our findings are consistent with prior research with older infants relating iron deficiency to temperament. These results support the importance of increased research on the early functional-behavioral consequences of individual differences in iron status as well as on the mechanisms that underlie such consequences.
Self-esteem during the school years. Its normal development and hazardous decline.	Self-esteem has a major impact on all aspects of a child and adolescent's life. This article examines the emergence of self-esteem within a dynamic ongoing child-environment interaction; a framework for understanding the components of self-esteem; behavioral manifestations of self-esteem, especially as expressed in different coping maneuvers; and strategies and interventions to reinforce the self-esteem of children and adolescents.
Temperament issues in the school-aged child.	Children's temperament continues to make a significant contribution to their physical health, development, and behavior as they progress into later childhood and adolescence. The definition of temperament as behavioral style remains the same, although the relative importance of the several dimensions shifts, factors affecting it broaden, its stability increases, and its measurement becomes more complex. An important role has been established for temperament in behavior problems through childhood but less so for new ones in adolescence, in several aspects of physical health and some other areas such as coping or adaptive style. This article stresses the strong influence that temperament has on school performance and emphasizes the probability that many children who are now said to have the disorder of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder are likely to have normal neurologic function and a temperament that does not fit well with the demands of the modern school environment.
Maternal trait anxiety, depression and life event stress in pregnancy: relationships with infant temperament.	To assess whether links exist between maternal trait anxiety (STAI), perceived life event (LE) stress and depression (Edinburgh scale) and infant temperament.
Child temperament, maternal adjustment, and changes in family life style.	Child temperament has been implicated as a relevant factor in understanding parental adjustment. In a study of 77 mothers of 3- and 4-year-old children, difficult child temperament was found to be directly related to maternal distress, discomfort in the role of parent, poor spousal relationships, and negative changes in way of life. Quality and intensity of the child's mood were most predictive of these difficulties.
Vulnerability and temperament in very low birth weight school-aged children.	The purpose of this study was to investigate parental perception of vulnerability, parental subjective stress concerning children's premature birth, and child temperament in families of very low birth weight (VLBW) and normal birth weight (NBW) children. The subjects were 39 VLBW children and 30 NBW 7-year-old children and their caregivers. Data on child temperament and parental perception of vulnerability was provided by the 69 families. Families of the VLBW group rated their degree of current stress concerning their children's premature birth. There were no differences between the NBW and VLBW caregivers in their perceptions of their child's vulnerability status. Caregivers of VLBW children had significantly lower scores on degree of subjective stress specific to the premature birth than the value reported on the standardization population. Child temperament made a significant contribution to parental perception of child vulnerability status in both VLBW and NBW parents.
Behavioral disorders in infants and young children: a contribution to psychopathology of early childhood]	In a study on the psychological development of children born at biological and psychosocial risk adverse temperamental characteristics and psychopathological symptoms of 362 children were determined at the ages of 3 and 24 months. Adverse temperamental characteristics were measured with the help of behavioral observations in standardized situations. Symptoms were assessed in a highly structured parent interview. The results showed a higher-than-average rate of disturbed children, which increased from 15.5% at the age of 3 months to 19.5% at two years. Hyperkinesis was the most prevalent disturbance. Whereas no sex effect was found among infants, the 2-year-old boys manifested more symptoms and had more adverse temperamental characteristics than the 2-year-old girl. Sex differences in symptom patterns were similar to those seen in later childhood. The course of early disturbances was characterized by low persistence and stability. Four fifths of all infant disturbances had remitted by the age of two years. A small number of early problems (i.e. eating disorders) turned out to be predictive of later disorders.
The temperament evaluation of the Memphis, Pisa, Paris, and San Diego autoquestionnaire, Argentine version (TEMPS-A Buenos Aires)]	One of the major points of interest in the study of affective temperaments is the possibility of exploring the clinical significance of sub-affective traits as predictors of the development and inter-episodic manifestation of recurrent mood disorders within the bipolar illness spectrum. The TEMPS-A scale is a self-evaluation questionnaire used worldwide to assess the four basic affective temperaments (hyperthymic, depressive, cyclothymic, and irritable), and the anxious temperament.
Firearm violence exposure and serious violent behavior.	To estimate the cause-effect relationship between exposure to firearm violence and subsequent perpetration of serious violence, we applied the analytic method of propensity stratification to longitudinal data on adolescents residing in Chicago, Illinois. Results indicate that exposure to firearm violence approximately doubles the probability that an adolescent will perpetrate serious violence over the subsequent 2 years.
Association of personality and work conditions with depressive symptoms.	Previous studies have found a relationship between job-related stress and depressive symptoms in different occupational groups, and that personality may modify the risk of developing depressive symptoms. We aimed to examine the association of personality and other individual and work conditions with depressive symptoms.
Adolescent attachment styles and their relation to the temperament and character traits of personality in a general population.	Attachment styles as well as personality traits in adolescents and adults have been found to be associated with their health outcomes and with their personality pathology. In this cross-sectional exploratory study, we study the relationship between attachment styles that derive from our data employing the items of Feeney et al. (1994) self-report attachment style questionnaire (ASQ), and personality traits given by the junior version of Cloninger et al. (1993) self-report temperament and character inventory (TCI), in a sample of 426 adolescents (54% females) from a general population. The secure attachment style was correlated significantly negatively with the personality trait harm avoidance (HA), but significantly positively with the personality traits novelty seeking (NS), reward dependence (RD), cooperativeness (CO) and self-transcendence (ST). The preoccupied (anxious/ambivalent) attachment style was correlated significantly positively with HA and NS, but significantly negatively with self-directedness (SD). The fearful-avoidant category was correlated significantly negatively with NS. Our five-factor solution of the attachment styles and their relation to the TCI point towards a need for a modification of the two-axis, four-category attachment model of Bartholomew (1990) and Bartholomew and Horowitz (1991), with their category dismissing-avoidant replaced by the two categories defined here as dismissing relations (correlated significantly negatively with CO) and dismissing others (correlated significantly negatively with RD and significantly positively with SD).
Association between dopamine receptor D3 gene BalI polymorphism and cognitive impulsiveness in alcohol-dependent men.	The gene coding for the dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) is considered as a major candidate gene in various addictive disorders. Association studies in alcohol-dependence for this gene are nevertheless controversial. We made the hypothesis that phenotypical heterogeneity of alcohol-dependence (i.e. the DRD3 gene is a vulnerability gene in a specific subgroup of patients only) could explain these spurious findings, focusing on a core dimension of addictive disorders, namely impulsiveness. In our sample of 108 French alcohol-dependent patients, patients above the median value for cognitive impulsiveness (one of the three dimensions of the Barratt scale) were more frequently heterozygous than both alcohol-dependent patients with lower impulsiveness (OR = 2.51, P = 0.019) and than 71 healthy controls (OR = 2.32, P = 0.025). Age at interview, antisocial personality disorder, other comorbid addictive disorder, age at onset of alcohol-dependence, and lifetime mood disorders did not constitute confusing intermediate factors.
Media literacy for clinicians and parents.	Families and children are in the midst of a media revolution. Television, Internet access, instant messaging, cell phones, and interactive video games are delivering more information for more hours than ever in history. Exposure is occurring at younger and younger ages, often without parental oversight or interpretation. The impact on children is just beginning to be studied. Does media exposure prepare children for the world in which they live or deprive them of critical developmental opportunities? Does the steady display of violence contribute to violent behavior? This article presents a developmental context, discusses the research conducted to date, reviews the recommendations of major organizations, and tries to take a balanced perspective in the midst of a rising tide of media, technology, commercialism, and controversy.
Alterations of drive in differential diagnosis of mild depressive disorders--evidence for the spectrum concept of endogenomorphic affective psychosis.	Specific alterations of drive have been cited in the literature to separate mild depressive disorders belonging to the bipolar or endogenomorphic spectrum from depressive disorders of other origin. To test this hypothesis 44 patients with mild depressive disorder were studied longitudinally. Presence of inhibition of drive or thought predicted outcome in mania or melancholia. The data are interpreted as evidence for the spectrum concept of affective psychosis.
Toward an integrative model of the spectrum of mood, behavioral and personality disorders based on fear and anger traits: I. Clinical implications.	Current formal psychiatric approaches to nosology are plagued by an unwieldy degree of heterogeneity with insufficient appreciation of the commonalities of emotional, personality, behavioral, and addictive disorders. We address this challenge by building a spectrum model that integrates the advantages of Cloninger's and Akiskalian approaches to personality and temperament while avoiding some of their limitations. We specifically propose that "fear" and "anger" traits--used in a broader connotation than in the conventional literature--provide an optimum basis for understanding how the spectra of anxiety, depressive, bipolar, ADHD, alcohol, substance use and other impulse-control, as well as cluster B and C personality disorders arise and relate to one another. By erecting a bidimensional approach, we attempt to resolve the paradox that apparently polar conditions (e.g. depression and mania, compulsivity and impulsivity, internalizing and externalizing disorders) can coexist without cancelling one another. The combination of excessive or deficient fear and anger traits produces 4 main quadrants corresponding to the main temperament types of hyperthymic, depressive, cyclothymic and labile individuals, which roughly correspond to bipolar I, unipolar depression, bipolar II and ADHD, respectively. Other affective temperaments resulting from excess or deficiency of only fear or anger include irritable, anxious, apathetic and hyperactive. Our model does not consider schizophrenia. We propose that "healthy" or euthymic individuals would have average or moderate fear and anger traits. We further propose that family history, course and comorbidity patterns can also be understood based on fear and anger traits. We finally discuss the implications of the new derived model for clinical diagnosis of the common psychiatric disorders, and for subtyping depression and anxiety as well as cognitive and behavioral styles. We submit this proposed schema represented herein as a heuristic attempt to build bridges between basic and clinical science.
Stuttering in adults: the acoustic startle response, temperamental traits, and biological factors.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between stuttering and a range of variables of possible relevance, with the main focus on neuromuscular reactivity, and anxiety. The explorative analysis also included temperament, biochemical variables, heredity, preonset lesions, and altered auditory feedback (AAF). An increased level of neuromuscular reactivity in stuttering adults has previously been reported by [Guitar, B. (2003). Acoustic startle responses and temperament in individuals who stutter. Journal of Speech Language and Hearing Research, 46, 233-240], also indicating a link to anxiety and temperament. The present study included a large number of variables in order to enable analysis of subgroups and relations between variables. Totally 32 stuttering adults were compared with nonstuttering controls. The acoustic startle eyeblink response was used as a measure of neuromuscular reactivity. No significant group difference was found regarding startle, and startle was not significantly correlated with trait anxiety, stuttering severity, or AAF. Startle was mainly related to calcium and prolactin. The stuttering group had significantly higher scores for anxiety and childhood ADHD. Two subgroups of stuttering were found, with high versus low traits of childhood ADHD, characterized by indications of preonset lesions versus heredity for stuttering. The study does not support the view that excessive reactivity is a typical characteristic of stuttering. The increased anxiety is suggested to mainly be an effect of experiences of stuttering.
Influence of apologies and trait hostility on recovery from anger.	While there is growing evidence that quick recovery from stress is health-protective, relatively little is known about what factors affect recovery rates. We tested whether recovery from anger can be diffused with apologies. 184 participants performed a stress task involving verbal harassment and apologies. Participants were randomly assigned to one of four conditions: non-harassed control, good apology, pseudo-apology, or no apology. Measures of blood pressure and heart rate were taken at baseline, task and recovery periods. Participants scoring high in trait hostility displayed faster systolic blood pressure recovery when they received a genuine apology, but recovered more slowly when they received a pseudo-apology or no apology. Apologies did not influence subjective anger ratings. It was concluded that apologies may accelerate cardiovascular anger recovery among those with hostile personality predispositions.
Development of short and very short forms of the Children's Behavior Questionnaire.	Using data from 468 parents and taking into account internal consistency, breadth of item content, within-scale factor analysis, and patterns of missing data, we developed short (94 items, 15 scales) and very short (36 items, 3 broad scales) forms of the Children's Behavior Questionnaire (CBQ; Rothbart, Ahadi, & Hershey, 1994; Rothbart, Ahadi, Hershey, & Fisher, 2001), a well-established parent-report measure of temperament for children aged 3 to 8 years. We subsequently evaluated the forms with data from 1,189 participants. In mid/high-income and White samples, the CBQ short and very short forms demonstrated both satisfactory internal consistency and criterion validity, and exhibited longitudinal stability and cross-informant agreement comparable to that of the standard CBQ. Internal consistency was somewhat lower among African American and low-income samples for some scales. Very short form scales demonstrated acceptable internal consistency for all samples, and confirmatory factor analyses indicated marginal fit of the very short form items to a three-factor model.
Dispositional optimism and coping: a meta-analytic review.	The relation between dispositional optimism and better adjustment to diverse stressors may be attributable to optimism's effects on coping strategies. A meta-analytic review (K = 50, N = 11,629) examined the impact of dispositional optimism on coping. Dispositional optimism was found to be positively associated with approach coping strategies aiming to eliminate, reduce, or manage stressors or emotions (r = .17), and negatively associated with avoidance coping strategies seeking to ignore, avoid, or withdraw from stressors or emotions (r = -.21). Effect sizes were larger for the distinction between approach and avoidance coping strategies than for that between problem and emotion-focused coping. Meta-analytic findings also indicate that optimists may adjust their coping strategies to meet the demands of the stressors at hand, and that the optimism-coping relationship is strongest in English-speaking samples.
The characteristics of uncooperative children's temperament during dental treatment]	To compare the temperament of uncooperative and cooperative children during dental treatment, and find out the characteristics of the uncooperative children's temperament.
Individual characteristics, familial experience, and psychopathology in children of mothers with borderline personality disorder.	The aim of this study was to examine individual characteristics, familial experience, and psychopathology of children of mothers with borderline personality disorder (BPD).
Temperament and behaviour problems in young children with Down syndrome at 12, 30, and 45 months.	Though cross-sectional studies have yielded important information regarding the trajectory of psychopathology in middle childhood and adolescence in Down syndrome, there has been little exploration of maladaptive behaviour in the earliest years of development. In this study, we explore the emergence of maladaptive behaviour in young children with Down syndrome (n=24) and a mental age-matched comparison group (n=33) of young children with developmental disabilities of mixed etiologies. Behavioural data (Bayley Scales of Infant Development, Infant Temperament Questionnaire, Achenbach's Child Behaviour Checklist) were collected for children in each group at 12 months, 30 months, and 45 months. Findings from this study suggest that the onset of internalising behaviour difficulties in young children with Down syndrome may emerge later in early development than in children with developmental disabilities of mixed/nonspecific etiologies. In addition, temperament at Time I appeared to be a much stronger predictor of maladaptive behaviour outcomes at Time 3 in the mixed comparison group than in the Down syndrome group. Implications of this trajectory of the early development of maladaptive behaviour in Down syndrome for intervention for young children with Down syndrome are discussed.
Behavioral inhibition: a neurobiological perspective.	Behavioral inhibition (BI) during early childhood has been associated with subsequent development of anxiety disorders. However, understanding of the neuroanatomical substrates of BI in humans generally has not kept pace with that of anxiety disorders. Recent interpretations and implementations of Gray's and Kagan's concepts of BI are examined from the perspective of current neurobiological models. Particular attention is given to evidence pointing to conceptual and operational limitations of self-report scales purported to measure trait BI in adults, and especially to inconsistent correlations between such behavioral inhibition system (BIS) scores and amygdala and autonomic responses to fear- or startle-inducing stimuli. Evidence showing a dissociation of both BI and trait anxiety from the amygdala is considered. Possible reasons for the poor association between BIS and trait anxiety self-report scale scores and predicted physiological outputs of the BIS are identified. Reasons to distinguish between the neural bases of BI as against trait anxiety also are discussed. The need to critically examine the role of the amygdala in BI and trait anxiety, as well as to consider other brain areas that appear to be involved in subserving these emotional traits, is emphasized.
The effect of temperament and character on response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in panic disorder.	In this prospective study, temperament and character were evaluated in patients with panic disorder (PD), before 1 year of medication therapy, to verify whether these factors influenced the outcome of treatment.
Assessment and diagnosis of personality disorder: perennial issues and an emerging reconceptualization.	This chapter reviews recent (2000-2005) personality disorder (PD) research, focusing on three major domains: assessment, comorbidity, and stability. (a) Substantial evidence has accrued favoring dimensional over categorical conceptualization of PD, and the five-factor model of personality is prominent as an integrating framework. Future directions include assessing dysfunction separately from traits and learning to utilize collateral information. (b) To address the pervasiveness and extent of comorbidity, researchers have begun to move beyond studying overlapping pairs or small sets of disorders and are developing broader, more integrated common-factor models that cross the Axis I-Axis II boundary. (c) Studies of PD stability have converged on the finding that PD features include both more acute, dysfunctional behaviors that resolve in relatively short periods, and maladaptive temperamental traits that are relatively more stable-similar to normal-range personality traits-with increasing stability until after 50 years of age. A new model for assessing PD-and perhaps all psychopathology-emerges from integrating these interrelated reconceptualizations.
The neurobiology of stress and development.	Stress is a part of every life to varying degrees, but individuals differ in their stress vulnerability. Stress is usefully viewed from a biological perspective; accordingly, it involves activation of neurobiological systems that preserve viability through change or allostasis. Although they are necessary for survival, frequent neurobiological stress responses increase the risk of physical and mental health problems, perhaps particularly when experienced during periods of rapid brain development. Recently, advances in noninvasive measurement techniques have resulted in a burgeoning of human developmental stress research. Here we review the anatomy and physiology of stress responding, discuss the relevant animal literature, and briefly outline what is currently known about the psychobiology of stress in human development, the critical role of social regulation of stress neurobiology, and the importance of individual differences as a lens through which to approach questions about stress experiences during development and child outcomes.
Factors associated with infant pain response following an immunization injection.	Specific potential determinants of infant pain response were assessed in the context of a 4- or 6-month immunization injection. The distal influences of gender, gestational and current age, temperament, and early nociceptive stimuli were considered, as well as the proximal influences of parental and nurse coping-promoting statements within the treatment room.
Temperament as a predictor of internalising and externalising problems in adolescent children of parents diagnosed with cancer.	This study examined the relationship between temperament and internalising and externalising problems among children of parents diagnosed with cancer, beyond the effects of socio-demographics, illness-related variables and life events.
Abnormal personality and the mood and anxiety disorders: implications for structural models of anxiety and depression.	Substantial overlap exists between the mood and anxiety disorders. Previous research has suggested that their comorbidity can be explained by a shared factor (negative emotionality), but that they may also be distinguished by other unique components. The current study explicated these relations using an abnormal personality framework. Current diagnoses of major depression and several anxiety disorders were assessed in 563 Gulf War veterans. Participants also completed the schedule for nonadaptive and adaptive personality (SNAP) to determine how these disorders relate to abnormal personality traits. Analyses of individual diagnoses indicated that depression, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) were more strongly related to personality than were other anxiety disorders. The Self-Harm Scale distinguished major depression from all other disorders, highlighting its significance for future structural models. Our results add to a growing body of evidence suggesting that GAD and PTSD have more in common with major depression than with their anxiety disorder counterparts.
A rapid, three-step process for the preformulation of a recombinant ricin toxin A-chain vaccine.	A systematic, three-step approach was employed to develop a stable, optimized formulation of ricin toxin A-chain V76M/Y80A (rRTA) for use as a vaccine against ricin toxicity. The method first uses spectroscopic techniques to evaluate the stability of rRTA as a function of temperature and pH. To synthesize the data, empirical phase diagrams are generated to display the conditions under which the protein maintains particular conformational states. Following identification of optimal pH conditions, light scattering and fluorescence assays are employed to screen a wide variety of compounds for their abilities to stabilize rRTA. Once stabilizers were identified, the ability of rRTA to adsorb to aluminum salt adjuvants was evaluated. Desorption of the protein from the adjuvant was also analyzed. Using this approach, the optimal formulation conditions for rRTA were determined to be pH 6.0 utilizing glycerol as a stabilizer and Alhydrogel as an adjuvant. Such an approach has the potential to significantly reduce the time it takes to get vaccines into clinical testing.
Temperament and pain reactivity predict health behavior seven years later.	Minor illnesses and major diseases are affected by individual, environmental, and social factors. We sought to determine if children's temperament and pain reactivity (individual response styles) measured in kindergarten are related to future health behavior.
Differences in temperament, character and psychopathology among subjects with different patterns of cannabis use.	Patients who use illicit drugs and suffer from comorbid psychiatric illnesses have worse outcomes than drug users without a dual diagnosis. For this reason we aimed at identifying predictors of cannabis use severity using a multivariate model in which different clinical and socio-demographic variables were included.
The effect of inpatient cognitive-behavioral therapy for eating disorders on temperament and character.	Personality traits seem to have an important role in the development, clinical expression, course, and treatment response in eating disorders (EDs). We investigated the effects of an inpatient cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) on the measures of temperament and character (Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI)) in 149 consecutive patients with EDs. Baseline assessment included anthropometry, the Eating Disorder Examination (EDE), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and the TCI. Treatment was based on the transdiagnostic cognitive behavior theory and treatment of ED, adapted for an inpatient setting. Treatment effects were tested by paired ANOVA, adjusted for covariates. No effects were found on Novelty Seeking, Reward Dependence, and Cooperativeness. Harm Avoidance (F=18.17, p<0.001), Persistence (F=7.71, p=0.006), Self-Directedness (F=27.55, p<0.001), and Self Transcendence (F=16.38, p<0.001) significantly changed after treatment. Changes in TCI scores were wholly dependent on the changes in BDI and EDE, and independent of ED diagnosis and behavior and of BMI changes. We conclude that in ED, a few scales of both temperament and character are significantly modified by CBT, in relation to changes in psychopathology and depression, independently of nutrition. These results are relevant for future studies based on TCI.
Development of social anxiety: social interaction predictors of implicit and explicit fear of negative evaluation.	Little is known about how to predict which individuals with known temperament vulnerabilities will go on to develop social anxiety problems. Adolescents (N = 185) were followed from age 13 to 18 to evaluate psychosocial, prospective predictors of social anxiety symptoms and fears of negative evaluation (FNE), after accounting for pre-existing social withdrawal symptoms. Results from structural equation modeling suggest that lack of perceived social acceptance predicts subsequent explicit social anxiety and FNE, whereas the emotional intensity of close peer interactions predicts subsequent implicit FNE. Results are discussed in terms of the importance of peer interaction in the development of social anxiety, and the value of measuring both implicit and explicit FNE.
Attention genes.	A major problem for developmental science is understanding how the cognitive and emotional networks important in carrying out mental processes can be related to individual differences. The last five years have seen major advances in establishing links between alleles of specific genes and the neural networks underlying aspects of attention. These findings have the potential of illuminating important aspects of normal development and its pathologies. We need to learn how genes and experience combine to influence the structure of neural networks and the efficiency with which they are exercised. Methods for addressing these issues are central to progress in the decade ahead.
Children's fearfulness as a moderator of parenting in early socialization: Two longitudinal studies.	Findings from 2 longitudinal studies replicate and considerably extend past work on child temperament as a moderating link between parenting and successful socialization outcomes. In Study 1 (N = 106 mothers and children), child fearfulness, mother-child positive relationship, and maternal power assertion were assessed at 22 and 33 months; the outcome--children's moral self--was assessed at 56 months. In Study 2 (N = 102 mothers, fathers, and children), child fearfulness and parent-child positive relationship were assessed at 7 and 15 months; parents' power assertion was assessed at 15 months. The outcomes were children's receptive, willing stance toward the parent at 25 months, and rule-compatible conduct without supervision at 38 months. Child fearfulness significantly moderated the impact of parenting: In both studies, for relatively fearless children, mother-child positive relationship predicted future successful socialization outcomes in mother-child dyads. There was no analogous moderation effect in father-child dyads in Study 2. For relatively fearful children, fathers' power assertion in Study 2 predicted poor socialization outcomes. All Temperament x Parenting interactions appeared limited to measures obtained in the 2nd year.
Temperament and character in pathological gambling.	We have studied temperament and character in pathological gambling (PG).
Temperament, family environment, and behavior problems in children with new-onset seizures.	Children with epilepsy, even those with new-onset seizures, exhibit relatively high rates of behavior problems. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationships among early temperament, family adaptive resources, and behavior problems in children with new-onset seizures. Our major goal was to test whether family adaptive resources moderated the relationship between early temperament dimensions and current behavior problems in 287 children with new-onset seizures. Two of the three temperament dimensions (difficultness and resistance to control) were positively correlated with total, internalizing, and externalizing behavior problems (all P<0.0001). The third temperament dimension, unadaptability, was positively correlated with total and internalizing problems (P<0.01). Family adaptive resources moderated the relationships between temperament and internalizing and externalizing behavior problems at school. Children with a difficult early temperament who live in a family environment with low family mastery are at the greatest risk for behavior problems.
Pessimism and physical functioning in older women: influence of self-efficacy.	The purpose of the present study was to examine the nature of the relationships among dispositional optimism/pessimism, self-efficacy, and physical function in a cross-sectional sample of older women (N = 249, M age = 69 years). Initial bivariate analyses indicated that both pessimism and self-efficacy, but not optimism, were significantly correlated with objectively measured physical function. Subsequent analyses using covariance modeling with the full-information maximum likelihood estimator indicated that pessimism was no longer correlated with function when controlling for self-efficacy. That is, consistent with a social cognitive perspective, controlling for self-efficacy attenuated the relationship between pessimism and function. Our findings provide support for using a social cognitive perspective to understanding dispositional and modifiable influences on declines in function associated with aging.
Dependence of immune system function and metabolism on reactive anxiety.	Reactive anxiety, immune system function, and metabolism were studied in healthy volunteers. Temperament characteristics, state of health, number of leukocytes and platelets, and concentration of glucose, albumin, and fibrinogen significantly differed in subjects with low, moderate, and high level of reactive anxiety.
Attention alters neural responses to evocative faces in behaviorally inhibited adolescents.	Behavioral inhibition (BI) is a risk factor for anxiety disorders. While the two constructs bear behavioral similarities, previous work has not extended these parallels to the neural level. This study examined amygdala reactivity during a task previously used with clinically anxious adolescents. Adolescents were selected for enduring patterns of BI or non-inhibition (BN). We examined amygdala response to evocative emotion faces in BI (N=10, mean 12.8 years) and BN (N=17, mean 12.5 years) adolescents while systematically manipulating attention. Analyses focused on amygdala response during subjective ratings of internal fear (constrained attention) and passive viewing (unconstrained attention) during the presentation of emotion faces (Happy, Angry, Fearful, and Neutral). BI adolescents, relative to BN adolescents, showed exaggerated amygdala response during subjective fear ratings and deactivation during passive viewing, across all emotion faces. In addition, the BI group showed an abnormally high amygdala response to a task condition marked by novelty and uncertainty (i.e., rating fear state to a Happy face). Perturbations in amygdala function are evident in adolescents temperamentally at risk for anxiety. Attention state alters the underlying pattern of neural processing, potentially mediating the observed behavioral patterns across development. BI adolescents also show a heightened sensitivity to novelty and uncertainty, which has been linked to anxiety. These patterns of reactivity may help sustain early temperamental biases over time and contribute to the observed relation between BI and anxiety.
Epilepsy and personality study among the Tamberma of Togo based on a general population survey using the Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory]	There are many studies focusing on personality disorders of the patients with epilepsy in developed countries, using different methods. Such investigations with standardised tools like personality questionnaires lack in African populations in general and among the number of epileptic patients who have important psychosocial problems. In Togo, epilepsy still remains a shameful and contagious disease that leads often unfortunately to a "social death". The number of epileptic patients in this country is estimated around 45,000 and 90,000 and the situation is worst in some areas of the country like in Nadoba, chef-lieu of the Tamberma region where lives an homogenous and stable population that has kept its tradition.
Relating effortful control, executive function, and false belief understanding to emerging math and literacy ability in kindergarten.	This study examined the role of self-regulation in emerging academic ability in one hundred and forty-one 3- to 5-year-old children from low-income homes. Measures of effortful control, false belief understanding, and the inhibitory control and attention-shifting aspects of executive function in preschool were related to measures of math and literacy ability in kindergarten. Results indicated that the various aspects of child self-regulation accounted for unique variance in the academic outcomes independent of general intelligence and that the inhibitory control aspect of executive function was a prominent correlate of both early math and reading ability. Findings suggest that curricula designed to improve self-regulation skills as well as enhance early academic abilities may be most effective in helping children succeed in school.
Psychiatric disorders in children and adolescents: the contribution of the child's temperament and the parents' psychopathology and attitudes.	Correlates of child psychopathology were studied in a community sample of 210 children and adolescents (with equal numbers of boys and girls). Children suffering from a psychiatric disorder had more temperamental difficulties and their parents showed a higher level of psychopathology than those without a disorder. Furthermore, a regression analysis revealed that difficult temperamental traits in the child and the parents' attitudes toward the child were primary predictors of psychiatric disorders in the child. The relationship between the parent and child as well as the environment-temperament impact on child psychopathology are discussed.
The impact of gender, depression, and personality on craving.	Craving plays an important role in the addictive behavior process. The impact of gender, emotional state and personality on craving, however, has been understudied. Ninety-six women and 86 men seeking treatment for substance dependence were investigated regarding the association between personality factors (assessed by the Temperament and Character Inventory), depressive/anxiety symptomatology (assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory and the Beck Anxiety Inventory), and craving intensity (rated in the 7-day and the 24-hour periods prior to assessment). Recency of substance use and impulsivity were significantly associated with craving intensity for both women and men. Regression analyses revealed that depression best predicted craving for women, but not for men. These results suggest that while recent substance use and impulsivity can be important predictors of craving across gender, depression plays a critical role in craving among women. This finding underscores the need for vigorous assessment and treatment of comorbid symptomatology in women entering addiction treatment.
Clinical, psychological and personality features related to age of onset of anorexia nervosa.	To investigate the relationship between age of onset and clinical and personality features of patients with anorexia nervosa (AN).
A validity and reliability study investigating the Turkish version of the Infant Colic Scale.	The Infant Colic Scale is used to diagnose colic and to determine factors that cause colic. This study aimed to establish the validity and reliability of the Infant Colic Scale for the Turkish population. The research sample included mothers (N = 110) of 132 infants with colic registered at three public health clinics in the Denizli province. Language validity, content validity, and construct validity were examined. On the basis of the Infant Colic Scale's internal consistency reliability analysis, three items were removed. Factor analysis resulted in five subscales. The Cronbach's alpha coefficients were .55 to .89 for the subscales, and .73 for the total scale. The scale's test-retest reliability was .65. The Infant Colic Scale was found to be a valid and reliable measurement tool for the Turkish population.
Psychopathology and creativity]	In this paper, a concept has been presented stating that the process of creativity may be connected with psychopathological features such as mood disorders, mainly bipolar, and psychosis-like thought abnormalities. Biographic studies point to a more frequent occurrence of affective disorders in creative subjects and members of their families. There is also data concerning the occurrence of schizophrenia in the families of prominent persons. A number of studies have demonstrated a similarity of patients with bipolar affective illness and members of their families to creative persons, as to increased indexes of creativity as well as such temperamental features as cyclothymia, neuroticism and openness. An association has been also found between the dimension of"psychoticism", schizotypal features and the measures of creativity. A reduction of the so called "latent inhibition" mechanism, resulting in perception of seemingly irrelevant external stimuli is connected with a predisposition to both increased creativity and schizophrenia-like disturbances. A neurobiological model of generating ideas and creative drive assumes a dominant role of three brain structures: frontal lobes, temporal lobes and the mesolimbic system. The neurotransmission system mostly connected with elevated mood and psychotic thinking is the dopaminergic system, especially its mesolimbic and cortical pathways. Both neurobiological and pharmacological evidence has been accumulated for an association of these pathways with motivational, emotional and cognitive processes, and indirectly, with the processes of creativity. In recent years, a number of interesting results has also been obtained from molecular-genetic studies about genetic determinants of creativity processes in association with bipolar mood changes and psychotic conditions.
Is unipolar mania a distinct subtype?	Some recent reports raised the question whether unipolar mania, without severe or mild depression, really exists and whether it defines a distinct disorder. Literature on this topic is still scarce, although this was a matter of debate since several decades.
Temperament and character model of personality profile of alcohol- and drug-dependent inpatients.	The aims of this study were to evaluate the differences in dimensions of temperament and character in Turkish alcohol- and drug-dependent inpatients, and to examine which dimensions would predict drug dependency. The subjects consisted of 111 alcohol-dependent and 93 drug-dependent inpatients according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition. Subjects were tested using Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). Among the temperament dimensions, novelty seeking score was higher and reward dependency score was lower in drug-dependent patients than in alcohol-dependent patients. Among the character dimensions, self-directedness and cooperativeness scores were lower in drug-dependent patients. Low age and novelty seeking predicted drug dependency in forward logistic regression model. Subscales that predicted drug dependency other than young age were lower scores on compassion vs revengefulness (C4) and helpfulness (C3), and higher score on spiritual acceptance vs rational materialism (ST3). As in previous studies, which indicate an association between personality and substance choice, in the present study, TCI was shown to be an efficient tool in discriminating alcohol and drug dependents; thus, it seems to be important to consider TCI dimensions in planning the treatment of substance dependency.
Harm avoidance, self-harm, psychic pain, and the borderline personality: life in a "haunted house".	This article investigates the pattern of temperament for patients with borderline personality disorder and the impact of psychotherapeutic treatment on temperamental variables. A cohort of patients treated in the Westmead Borderline Personality Disorder Psychotherapy research project completed the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire. All patients had a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Revised Third Edition, criteria. This group scored highly on novelty-seeking and harm avoidance scales and moderately on reward dependence. There was a significant reduction in harm avoidance after 12 months of psychotherapy with a further reduction after 2 years in therapy. Although at variance with Cloninger's original prediction of low harm avoidance in histrionic and borderline patients, results are consistent with other studies in this patient group. The paradox of "self-harmers" scoring highly on harm avoidance may be explained by recognition of the intensity of "psychic pain" in this group. Self-harming behaviors may frequently be motivated by avoidance of a "greater harm" in terms of the inner psychic reality for these patients. Reduction in harm avoidance with psychotherapy could suggest an impact of treatment on temperament or may indicate that the harm avoidance construct is influenced by state variables such as mood.
Increased anxiety and other similarities in temperament of alcoholics with and without antisocial personality disorder across three diverse populations.	According to Cloninger's model, type I alcoholics are thought to be innately vulnerable to anxiety and depression. In contrast, type II alcoholics are thought to have increased likelihood of antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) and reduced anxiety. However, allostatic activations of stress, anxiety, and dysphoria may be a common thread in alcohol use disorders (AUDs). Our aim was to find commonalities and differences in temperament of alcoholics with and without ASPD in three diverse populations. By sib-sib comparisons, we also evaluated the extent to which the temperament traits were moderated by familial factors including inheritance. We compared harm avoidance (HA), novelty seeking (NS), and reward dependence (RD) in alcoholics with ASPD, alcoholics without ASPD, and controls. Correlations for each temperament dimension were evaluated in pairs of siblings concordant and discordant for AUD. Participants were derived from three independent populations: Finnish Caucasians (N=453, men=100%, including a sample of alcoholic criminals), a Plains American Indian community sample (N=378; men=42%), and a subset of the familial and predominantly Caucasian Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) sample (N=967, men=47%). In all the three populations, both alcoholics with and without ASPD were higher in HA than controls. The increase of HA among alcoholics as compared to controls ranged from 54% to 12%. In two populations (COGA and Finns), NS was highest in alcoholics with ASPD, intermediate in alcoholics without ASPD, and lowest in controls. HA levels were correlated in sib-pairs concordant (either affected or unaffected) for AUD but not in discordant pairs. In conclusions, despite cultural diversity and different modes of ascertainment we found a consistent pattern of elevated HA in all groups of alcoholics, including alcoholics with ASPD. Even in alcoholics with long-term exposure to the anxiogenic effects of repeated cycles of alcohol withdrawal, genetic and other familial influences seem to play a role in moderating anxiety.
State and trait in personality disorders.	The current definitions of personality disorder indicate early onset, long duration and disorders of relatively stable severity. It has been noticed by a number of authors and researchers that at times personality pathology can be quite variable and not fit that model.
Optimism and suicide ideation among young adult college students.	Given that college students may be at increased risk for suicide, it is important to conduct research that could guide suicide prevention efforts on college campuses. Although much research has been conducted on the role of hopelessness and depression in suicide ideation, the role of dispositional optimism is unclear. Subjects were 284 college students (185 female, 65%), ages 18 and over. Optimism was assessed with the Life Orientation Test-Revised. The outcome measure was the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation. A hierarchical, multivariate regression was used to test the hypothesis that optimism is inversely associated with suicide ideation, even after controlling for age, gender, depressive symptoms, and hopelessness. The hypothesis was supported. Optimism holds promise as a cognitive characteristic associated with decreased thoughts of suicide in college students; a better understanding of its putative protective role in this group, and cross-culturally, is needed. Prevention programs designed to enhance optimism in the college setting might decrease suicide risk.
Maternal versus child risk and the development of parent-child and family relationships in five high-risk populations.	Individual, dyadic, and triadic influences on the development of the family system were examined in the context of developmental risk. Participants were 145 couples and their 4-month-old first-born child in six groups: controls, three mother-risk groups (depressed, anxious, comorbid), and two infant-risk groups (preterm, intrauterine growth retardation). Dyadic and triadic interactions were observed. Differences in parent-infant reciprocity and intrusiveness were found, with mother-risk groups scoring less optimally than controls and infant-risk groups scoring the poorest. Similar results emerged for family-level cohesion and rigidity. Structural modeling indicated that father involvement had an influence on the individual level, by reducing maternal distress, as well as on the triadic level, by increasing family cohesion. Maternal emotional distress affected the reciprocity component of early dyadic and triadic relationships, whereas infant negative emotionality impacted on the intrusive element of parenting and family-level relationships. Discussion considered the multiple and pattern-specific influences on the family system as it is shaped by maternal and child risk conditions.
Effortful control as modifier of the association between negative emotionality and adolescents' mental health problems.	This study examined the extent to which effortful control moderated the risk of internalizing or externalizing problems associated with high negative emotionality in a Dutch population sample of pre- and early adolescents (N = 1,922). Internalizing and externalizing problems were assessed with the Child Behavior Checklist, Youth Self-Report, and Teacher Checklist of Psychopathology. Temperament (effortful control, fearfulness, frustration) was assessed with the parent version of the Revised Early Adolescent Temperament Questionnaire. The effects of fearfulness and frustration appeared to be attenuated by high levels of effortful control. The associations differed between the two domains of mental health investigated: effortful control reduced the effect of fearfulness on internalizing problems and the effect of frustration on externalizing problems. The effects were stronger for externalizing problems and similar for preadolescent (age 11) and adolescent (age 13/14) outcomes.
Childhood and adolescent resiliency, regulation, and executive functioning in relation to adolescent problems and competence in a high-risk sample.	This study first examined the respective relations of resiliency and reactive control with executive functioning. It then examined the relationship of these different domains to the development of academic and social outcomes, and to the emergence of internalizing and externalizing problem behavior in adolescence. Resiliency and reactive control were assessed from preschool to adolescence in a high-risk sample of boys and girls (n = 498) and then linked to component operations of neuropsychological executive functioning (i.e., response inhibition, interference control, fluency, working memory/set-shifting, planning, and alertness), assessed in early and late adolescence. Consistent, linear relations were found between resiliency and executive functions (average r = .17). A curvilinear relationship was observed between reactive control and resiliency, such that resiliency was weaker when reactive control was either very high or very low. In multivariate, multilevel models, executive functions contributed to academic competence, whereas resiliency and interference control jointly predicted social competence. Low resiliency, low reactive control, and poor response inhibition uniquely and additively predicted internalizing problem behavior, whereas low reactive control and poor response inhibition uniquely predicted externalizing problem behavior. Results are discussed in relation to recent trait models of regulation and the scaffolded development of competence and problems in childhood and adolescence.
Effective treatment for postpartum depression is not sufficient to improve the developing mother-child relationship.	Maternal depression is prevalent, and puts children at risk. Little evidence addresses whether treatment for maternal depression is sufficient to improve child outcomes. An experiment was conducted testing whether psychotherapeutic treatment for mothers, suffering from major depression in the postpartum period, would result in improved parenting and child outcomes. Participants included depressed women randomly assigned to interpersonal psychotherapy (n = 60) or to a waitlist (n = 60), and a nondepressed comparison group (n = 56). At 6 months, depressed mothers were less responsive to their infants, experienced more parenting stress, and viewed their infants more negatively than did nondepressed mothers. Treatment affected only parenting stress, which improved significantly but was still higher than that for nondepressed mothers. Eighteen months later, treated depressed mothers still rated their children lower in attachment security, higher in behavior problems, and more negative in temperament than nondepressed mothers. Initial response to treatment did not predict reduced risk for poor child outcomes. Early maternal negative perceptions of the child predicted negative temperament and behavior problems 18 months after treatment. Treatment for depression in the postpartum period should target the mother-infant relationship in addition to the mothers' depressive symptoms.
Further evidence for individual differences in placebo responding: an interactionist perspective.	A prior investigation found that individuals low in optimism are more likely to follow a negative placebo (nocebo) expectation. The present study tested the hypothesis that individuals high in optimism are more likely to follow a positive placebo expectation.
Resilience: a concept analysis.	Concept analysis of resilience.
Temperament of juvenile delinquents with history of substance abuse.	The etiological factors and interrelations of juvenile delinquents, with psychiatric morbidity and substance abuse have been continuously debated. Cloninger's Tridimensional Theory of Temperament has been reported to predict patterns of substance abuse and comorbidity. In the current study, we aimed to examine the usability of the theory in predicting juvenile delinquency and substance abuse.
Sensory modality, temperament, and the development of sustained attention: a vigilance study in children and adults.	Applying optimal stimulation theory, the present study explored the development of sustained attention as a dynamic process. It examined the interaction of modality and temperament over time in children and adults. Second-grade children and college-aged adults performed auditory and visual vigilance tasks. Using the Carey temperament questionnaires (S. C. McDevitt & W. B. Carey, 1995), the authors classified participants according to temperament composites of reactivity and task orientation. In a preliminary study, tasks were equated across age and modality using d' matching procedures. In the main experiment, 48 children and 48 adults performed these calibrated tasks. The auditory task proved more difficult for both children and adults. Intermodal relations changed with age: Performance across modality was significantly correlated for children but not for adults. Although temperament did not significantly predict performance in adults, it did for children. The temperament effects observed in children--specifically in those with the composite of reactivity--occurred in connection with the auditory task and in a manner consistent with theoretical predictions derived from optimal stimulation theory.
Trait and social influences in the links among adolescent attachment, depressive symptoms, and coping.	Attachment insecurity and maladaptive coping are associated with depression in adolescence; however, it is unclear whether these links primarily reflect stable individual differences among teens (trait influences), experiential differences in their interactions with relationship partners (social influences) or both. In this study, teens (ages 14-18; N = 150) completed questionnaires to assess their attachment security, depressive symptoms, and coping strategies with different attachment figures. Measures were completed three times, based on experiences with a maternal figure, paternal figure, and closest peer. Generalizability analyses were used to separate each construct into trait and social influence components. Next, multivariate g correlations were computed to examine the correlations among the constructs for the trait component as well as the social component. Correlation magnitudes differed depending on whether the trait or social influence components were examined.
Relationships matter in personality development: evidence from an 8-year longitudinal study across young adulthood.	Personality-relationship transactions were investigated in a general population sample of young German adults with three assessments over 8 years. Four general findings were obtained. First, personality development was characterized by substantive individual differences in change. Second, bivariate latent growth models indicated that individual differences in personality change were substantially associated with change in peer and family relationships. Third, forming a partner relationship for the first time moderated the maturation of personality. This finding was replicated over two subsequent time intervals with independent subgroups. Fourth, higher neuroticism and higher sociability predicted which of the singles began a partner relationship during the next 8 years. The results confirm that individual differences in personality development predict and result from life transitions and relationship experiences.
Temperament, executive functions, and the allocation of attention to punishment feedback in passive avoidance learning.	Several theories have been proposed to account for the apparent non-responsiveness to punishment cues or aversive events demonstrated by members of some disinhibited groups. Included among these theories are those that emphasize individual differences in temperament, temperament-related biases associated with the allocation of attentional resources, and impairments in executive functions. This study examined the relative contribution of each of these variables to the prediction of passive avoidance errors (PAEs, or failures to inhibit responding to punishment cues) during a computerized go/no-go task. Variations in temperament, attentional allocation to punishment feedback, and executive functions were found to independently and additively contribute to the prediction of PAEs in a mixed sample of men and women recruited at a university campus (n=145). Results from this study, therefore, support multiple theoretical perspectives on PAEs as assessed by the go/no-go experimental paradigm.
Screening for personality disorders.	A brief but valid self-report measure to screen for personality disorders (PDs) would be a valuable tool in making decisions about further assessment and in planning optimal treatments. In psychiatric and nonpsychiatric samples, we compared the validity of three screening measures: the PD scales from the Inventory of Interpersonal Problems, a self-report version of the Iowa Personality Disorder Screen, and the selfdirectedness scale of the Temperament and Character Inventory. Despite their different theoretical origins, the screeners were highly correlated in a range from .71 to .77. As a result, the use of multiple screeners was not a significant improvement over any individual screener, and no single screener stood out as clearly superior to the others. Each performed modestly in predicting the presence of any PD diagnosis in both the psychiatric and nonpsychiatric groups. Performance was best when predicting a more severe PD diagnosis in the psychiatric sample. The results also highlight the potential value of multiple assessments when relying on self-reports.
Sex differences in the use of coping strategies: predictors of anxiety and depressive symptoms.	This study examined sex differences in the use of coping strategies and their relationship to depression and anxiety-related psychopathology. Responses on measures of coping strategies, depression, and anxiety were obtained from a carefully screened nonclinical sample (N = 107). The results demonstrated that women who used less positive reframing had higher levels of depressive symptoms compared with women who used more positive reframing and to men irrespective of their use of more or less positive reframing. In addition, women who reported the use of more self-blame had elevated levels of trait anxiety, although a similar effect was not found for men. The observed sex differences in the use of coping strategies and their association with depression and anxiety-related problems underscores differences in the clinical presentation of anxiety and depression between women and men.
"Shhh! We're tryin' to concentrate": attention and environmental distracters in novel word learning.	The authors' purpose in this study was to evaluate the role of attention, as a central dimension of temperament, in children's real-time acquisition of novel vocabulary. Environmental distractions were administered to 47 22-month-old children as they acquired novel vocabulary in a fast-mapping task. Two distraction conditions impeded novel word acquisition, but only 1 impeded attention allocation. Attention allocation was correlated with novel word acquisition under conditions of distraction, but not in their absence. Results suggest that attention allocation is especially important for word learning under conditions of distraction. Given that in their day-to-day lives children often encounter new words amid a host of environmental distractions, children with constitutionally fewer attentional resources, such as temperamentally difficult children, may be at a vocabulary-learning disadvantage.
Negative affectivity predicts individual differences in decision making for preschoolers.	The authors' goal in conducting this study was to explore the association between temperament and future-oriented decision making. Forty-three preschoolers (mean age = 51 months) were given a child variant of the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and asked to choose between a deck with higher immediate rewards and a deck with higher future rewards. Children who were higher on the Extraversion/Surgency factor of the Child Behavior Questionnaire chose more frequently from the higher immediate rewards deck early in the game. The externalizing dimension of Negative Affectivity (anger/frustration, soothability and discomfort) made the greatest contribution to prediction of performance in the last block of the game. Children who were more easily frustrated and had difficulty regulating negative emotions chose more from the deck with higher immediate rewards. There was a significant interaction between the externalizing dimension of Negative Affectivity, the internalizing dimension of Negative Affectivity (sadness and fear) and Extraversion/Surgency on the last block. These results suggest a complex association between IGT performance and temperament in preschoolers.
Temperament influences on parenting and child psychopathology: socio-economic disadvantage as moderator.	Despite calls for research on how the socio-economic environment may be related to temperament, we still do not know enough about the relationship between temperament and socio-economic disadvantage (SED). A particularly under-researched question in temperament research is how SED may moderate the temperament-parenting and the temperament-child psychopathology links. The article argues that, to develop theory, future temperament studies should seek to explore how the timing, specificity or accumulation, level and duration, and change of SED may be related not only to temperament but also to links between temperament and parenting and between temperament and child psychopathology.
Child temperaments, differential parenting, and the sibling relationships of children with autism spectrum disorder.	This study examined associations between sibling temperaments, differential parenting, and the quality of the relationships between 50 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and their typically developing siblings. The temperament dimension of persistence, but not activity level or emotional intensity, was found to relate to the quality of the sibling relationship. Effects were stronger for temperaments of the typically developing siblings, but persistence levels of both groups of children interacted to predict sibling relationship quality. Persistence also was the temperament dimension associated with differential parenting, with increased levels of differential parenting occurring when siblings, and to some degree the children with ASD, were low in persistence. When siblings were dissatisfied with differential parenting, quality of the sibling relationship was compromised.
Different temperament and character dimensions correlate with panic disorder comorbidity in bipolar disorder and unipolar depression.	This study aimed to investigate temperament and character correlates of panic disorder (PD) comorbidity in euthymic patients with bipolar disorder (BD) or unipolar depression (UD).
Temperament and parenting during the first year of life predict future child conduct problems.	Predictive associations between parenting and temperament during the first year of life and child conduct problems were assessed longitudinally in 1,863 offspring of a representative sample of women. Maternal ratings of infant fussiness, activity level, predictability, and positive affect each independently predicted maternal ratings of conduct problems during ages 4-13 years. Furthermore, a significant interaction indicated that infants who were both low in fussiness and high in predictability were at very low risk for future conduct problems. Fussiness was a stronger predictor of conduct problems in boys whereas fearfulness was a stronger predictor in girls. Conduct problems also were robustly predicted by low levels of early mother-report cognitive stimulation when infant temperament was controlled. Interviewer-rated maternal responsiveness was a robust predictor of conduct problems, but only among infants low in fearfulness. Spanking during infancy predicted slightly more severe conduct problems, but the prediction was moderated by infant fussiness and positive affect. Thus, individual differences in risk for mother-rated conduct problems across childhood are already partly evident in maternal ratings of temperament during the first year of life and are predicted by early parenting and parenting-by-temperament interactions.
The additive and interactive effects of parenting style and temperament in obese youth seeking treatment.	To examine maternal parenting behaviors, child temperament and their potential interactions in families of obese children and demographically similar families of nonoverweight children.
Novelty seeking modulates medial prefrontal activity during the anticipation of emotional stimuli.	In a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, expectancy cues signaling emotional stimuli were used to study the personality trait of novelty seeking. BOLD responses to emotional expectancy were positively correlated with novelty-seeking scores in the medial prefrontal cortex. This correlation was strongest for the sub-dimension of exploratory excitability.
Identification of quantitative trait loci affecting cattle temperament.	In addition to its potential contribution to improving animal welfare, the study of the genetics of cattle behavior may provide more general insights into the genetic control of such complex traits. We carried out a genome scan in a Holstein x Charolais cross cattle population to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) influencing temperament-related traits. Individuals belonging to the second-generation of this population (F(2) and backcross individuals) were subjected to 2 behavioral tests. The flight from feeder (FF) test measured the distance at which the animal moved away from an approaching human observer, whereas the social separation (SS) test categorized different activities which the animal engaged in when removed from its penmates. The entire population was genotyped with 165 microsatellite markers. A regression interval mapping analysis identified 29 regions exceeding the 5% chromosome-wide significance level, which individually explained a relatively small fraction of the phenotypic variance of the traits (from 3.8% to 8.4%). One of the significant associations influencing an FF test trait on chromosome 29 reached the 5% genome-wide significance level. Eight other QTL, all associated with an SS test trait, reached the 1% chromosome-wide significance level. The location of some QTL coincided with other previously reported temperament QTL in cattle, whereas those that are reported for the first time here may represent general loci controlling temperament differences between cattle breeds. No overlapping QTL were identified for the traits measured by the 2 different tests, supporting the hypothesis that different genetic factors influence behavioral responses to different situations.
The relationship of parenting stress and child temperament to language development among economically disadvantaged preschoolers.	Oral language skills in the preschool years are predictive of children's later reading success and literacy acquisition, and among these language skills, vocabulary and narrative ability play important roles. Children from low socioeconomic families face risks to their language development and because of threats to these skills it is important to identify factors that promote their development among high-risk groups. This preliminary study explored two potential factors that may be related to language skills in 56 low SES mother-child dyads (children aged 2; 8-4; 10), namely child temperament and parenting stress. Results showed that child temperament and parenting stress were related to children's oral language skills. Child temperament characteristics that would likely aid social interaction were related to narrative ability and children rated high on emotionality had poorer receptive vocabulary skills. Parenting stress was related to children's receptive and expressive vocabulary skills. Results are interpreted in terms of the possible mediating role of parent-child interactions in children's oral language skill development, and future directions for family intervention are discussed.
Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia and bipolar spectrum disorders: review of the evidence of a relationship and treatment implications.	Dementia is a neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by cognitive impairment and behavioral disturbances. The behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are common, contributing to caregiver burden and premature institutionalization. Management of BPSD is complex and often needs recourse to psychotropic drugs. Though widely prescribed, there is a lack of consensus concerning their use, and serious side effects are frequent. This is particularly the case with antidepressant treatment based on the assumption that BPSD is depressive in nature. A better understanding of BPSD etiology could lead to better management strategies. We submit that some BPSD could be the consequence of both dementia and an undiagnosed comorbid bipolar spectrum disorder, or a pre-existing bipolar diathesis pathoplastically altering the clinical expression of dementia. The existence of such a relationship is based on clinical observation, as far as the high frequency of bipolar spectrum disorders in the general population, with a prevalence estimated to be between 5.4% and 8.3%, and the psychopathological similarities between BPSD and mood disorder episodes in bipolar illness. We will review the concept of the bipolar spectrum and explain BPSD before proposing clinical pointers of a possible bipolar spectrum contaminating the phenomenology of dementia, which could lead to the targeted prescription of mood-stabilizing agents in lieu of antidepressant monotherapy. These considerations are of heuristic interest in reconceptualizing the origin of the behavioral manifestations of dementia, with important implications for geriatric practice.
Maternal meta-emotion philosophy and socialization of adolescent affect: The moderating role of adolescent temperament.	This study explored the associations between maternal meta-emotion philosophy (MEP) and maternal socialization of preadolescents' positive and negative affect. It also investigated whether adolescent temperament and gender moderated this association. MEP involves parental awareness and acceptance of their own and their child's emotions and their coaching of child emotions. Event-planning (EPI) and problem-solving (PSI) interactions were observed in 163 mother-adolescent dyads, and maternal behaviors were coded to provide indices of socialization responses to adolescent emotion. In addition, maternal MEP was assessed via interview, and preadolescents provided self-reports of temperament on 2 occasions. Maternal MEP that is higher in awareness and acceptance was associated with reduced likelihood of negative socialization behaviors during the EPI. Moreover, preadolescents' temperamental negative emotionality (NEM) and effortful control (EC) moderated some of these MEP-socialization associations. During the positive EPI task, greater maternal awareness and acceptance is associated with reduced likelihood of negative socialization toward preadolescents with "easy" temperaments, that is, low NEM or high EC. However, during the conflict task, greater maternal awareness is associated with reduced likelihood of negative socialization among preadolescents with "difficult" temperaments. Some male-specific associations were also found.
Clinical particularism of bipolar disorder: unipolar mania. About a patient's study in Tunesia]	Although present classifications (CIM, DSM) have not included the notion of a unipolar disorder to characterise the recurrence of the same type of episode, this concept conserves its pertinence for many people. Unipolar mania, in particular, is a clinical reality in our daily practice, and a predominant form of bipolarity expression. These assertions have led us to question this notion and its nosographical place: is it a subtype, distinguished by certain characteristics, or a particular category in the bipolar disorder?
Comparison of temperament and character between early- and late-onset Korean male pathological gamblers.	We investigated differences in temperament and character between early and late onset Korean pathological gamblers to identify whether the age of onset of pathological gambling (PG) could discriminate PG subtypes, like in alcoholism.
Temperament and attachment revisited: origin and meaning of separation intolerance at age three.	A study of 98 mother-child pairs investigated separation intolerance at age three in terms of temperament and attachment security. Results suggested that interaction of temperamental proneness to distress and secure attachment history leads to intolerance of a lengthy laboratory separation at this age. A hypothesis that intolerance of separation in such a context represents adaptive coping for distress-prone children was tested and received support.
Stressful life events and the tripartite model: relations to anxiety and depression in adolescent females.	Although the tripartite model reliably distinguishes anxiety and depression in adolescents, it remains unclear how negative affectivity (NA) and positive affectivity (PA) influence developmental pathways to internalizing problems. Based on models which propose that affectivity shapes how youth react to stress, the present study attempted to investigate the relative roles of NA, PA, and stressful life events in characterizing and differentiating adolescent anxiety and depression. A sample of adolescent females (N=63), including a sub-sample of adolescent mothers, completed measures of NA, PA, negative life event (NLE) occurrence, anxiety, and depression. Findings supported the tripartite model as a "temperamental reactivity to stress" approach. Anxious and depressive symptoms were predicted by a combination of high NA and high NLE occurrence. However, a combination of low PA and high NLE occurrence was uniquely linked to greater depressive symptoms. Implications of these findings for early identification and prevention programs are discussed.
Developmental change of sucking response to taste in infants.	Seventy-one full-term normal newborns were studied at the age of 5-7 days. A 0.1% tartrate or a 0.25% saline solution was given to each infant after 1-2 min of breast or bottle feeding and then the same solutions were once more given to the same subjects. Sucking rhythm was recorded and the infants' behavioral reactions were observed by examiners and analyzed on videotape. There were individual differences in the newborn's response to taste. Infants showed a similar response tendency to tartaric acid and saline solution, when given on two different occasions, respectively. But generally they reacted more strongly to saline than to tartrate. Next, sucking response to taste was studied in 20 infants once a month from birth until 5 months old. Five of them had severe brain damage and the other 15 infants were normal. The methods used were the same as those described in part 1. All 5 infants with severe brain damage initially showed a strong reaction and then a decrease of reaction. Fourteen normal infants were followed until 5 months of age: 12 of them showed a decrease of reaction between 1 and 5 months. Most of them showed decrement between 3 and 5 months. From our results, sucking response to taste in the newborns is assumed to be a subcortical reflex and not a cortically recognizable one. It might be called a primitive sucking response, which gradually decreases like any other primitive reflex does.
Achieving reliability in observational research: lessons from a study of newborn temperament.	Observational studies of human responses frequently yield only tenuous or no support for hypothesized relationships. These null findings often may be due to reliance on single observations rather than on multiple measures aggregated over contexts or occasions. This article discusses the principle of aggregation and describes the development and evaluation of aggregated measures in a study of the relationship of nursery nurse's behavior to emerging newborn temperament.
Interaction between 5-HTTLPR and BDNF Val66Met polymorphisms on HPA axis reactivity in preschoolers.	This study examined whether the interaction between the serotonin transporter promoter region (5-HTTLPR) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val66Met polymorphisms was associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity to stress. A community sample of 144 preschool-aged children was genotyped and exposed to stress-inducing laboratory tasks. Salivary cortisol was obtained at four time points during a standardized laboratory assessment before and after stressors involving separation from a parent and frustrating tasks. Children homozygous for the short-5-HTTLPR allele and carrying the Met-BDNF allele evidenced a significantly lower initial level of cortisol, followed by a positive increase in cortisol in response to the laboratory stressors. In contrast, children who were homozygous for the short-5-HTTLPR and the Val-BDNF alleles evidenced a greater decline in cortisol in response to the laboratory stressors. Findings indicated that the BDNF gene moderated the association between 5-HTTLPR and children's biological stress responses, suggesting that epistatic effects play a role in individual differences in stress regulation, and possibly genetic vulnerability to stress-related disorders.
Maternal, environmental, and temperamental characteristics of toddlers with and toddlers without sleep problems.	Sleep problems of young children are a common behavioral concern of parents. Thirty parents of toddlers with sleep problems (SP) and 30 parents of toddlers without sleep problems (WSP) were studied to ascertain differences in maternal, environmental, and temperamental characteristics. The Sleep Behavior Inventory and The Toddler Temperament Scale provided data identifying certain environmental and temperamental characteristics that may influence the development and/or maintenance of sleep problems. Implications of these findings for anticipatory guidance and counseling are discussed.
Type D personality in the general population: a systematic review of health status, mechanisms of disease, and work-related problems.	The objective was to review all available literature concerning Type D (distressed) personality among the general population and to discuss its implications for research on health status, disease-promoting mechanisms and work-related problems in non-clinical populations.
Evidence-informed dental student recruitment techniques.	The aim of the study described was to measure the performance of potential dental students in an evidence-based, objective, structured admission interview, and to compare that performance to student achievement in aptitude tests, tests of scientific knowledge, and tests of ability to apply knowledge to dentistry. A list of desirable attributes of dental professionals was drawn from the literature, omitting those which were considered to be learnt within the dental school curriculum. Possession of these attributes were then measured by objectively scoring responses to questions framed around a challenging clinical scenario. The interview scores were then correlated against student performance in an MCQ science for dentistry examination, an applied dental knowledge test, and the Graduate Australian Medical student aptitude test. The literature review revealed that sensitivity to others, professionalism, and ethical behaviour were deemed almost as important as academic and technical competency. Correlations of scores from an interview which sought to measure the attributes described in the literature with scores in scientific knowledge tests, aptitude tests and applied dental knowledge tests were low, and did not reach statistical significance. The results suggest that an interview process has been devised which measures the importance of characteristics not readily captured in more traditional selection strategies. Because the literature demonstrates that these characteristics are important to the public and the profession, this objective interview is a useful selection tool.
Direct and indirect effects of the temperament and character on alexithymia: a pathway analysis with mood and anxiety.	We aimed to assess the pathway from personality to alexithymia through mood and anxiety as mediators.
Temperamental attention and activity, classroom emotional support, and academic achievement in third grade.	The purpose of this study is to examine the interplay of children's temperamental attention and activity (assessed when children were 4-and-a-half years old) and classroom emotional support as they relate to children's academic achievement in third grade. Particular focus is placed on the moderating role of classroom emotional support on the relationship between temperament (attention and activity level) and academic achievement. Regression analyses indicated that children's attention and activity level were associated with children's third grade reading and mathematics achievement, and classroom emotional support was associated with children's third grade reading and mathematics achievement. In addition, classroom emotional support moderated the relation between children's attention and reading and mathematics achievement, such that attention mattered most for reading and mathematics achievement for children in classrooms with lower emotional support. Findings point to the importance of understanding how children's temperament and classroom emotional support may work together to promote or inhibit children's academic achievement.
Self-mutilation and suicide attempts: relationships to bipolar disorder, borderline personality disorder, temperament and character.	Self-mutilation has traditionally been associated with borderline personality disorder, and seldom examined separately from suicide attempts. Clinical experience suggests that self-mutilation is common in bipolar disorder.
The trait of sensory processing sensitivity and neural responses to changes in visual scenes.	This exploratory study examined the extent to which individual differences in sensory processing sensitivity (SPS), a temperament/personality trait characterized by social, emotional and physical sensitivity, are associated with neural response in visual areas in response to subtle changes in visual scenes. Sixteen participants completed the Highly Sensitive Person questionnaire, a standard measure of SPS. Subsequently, they were tested on a change detection task while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). SPS was associated with significantly greater activation in brain areas involved in high-order visual processing (i.e. right claustrum, left occipitotemporal, bilateral temporal and medial and posterior parietal regions) as well as in the right cerebellum, when detecting minor (vs major) changes in stimuli. These findings remained strong and significant after controlling for neuroticism and introversion, traits that are often correlated with SPS. These results provide the first evidence of neural differences associated with SPS, the first direct support for the sensory aspect of this trait that has been studied primarily for its social and affective implications, and preliminary evidence for heightened sensory processing in individuals high in SPS.
Temperament and behavior of preterm infants: a six-year follow-up.	To test the commonly held premise that prematurity is a risk factor for problems of behavior and social interaction, as well as cognitive and physical development, temperament and behavior of children born preterm and full-term control subjects were compared at five separate time periods from infancy through early school age. All the preterm infants (n = 126) of a representative group of infants enrolled in a longitudinal study (n = 2443) were surveyed at 4 to 8 months corrected age. Subsamples of the group were studied further in successive years as young toddlers (n = 65), older toddlers (n = 60), preschoolers (n = 84), and at early school age (n = 81). At each period there were no differences between those studied and those not studied on socioeconomic status, gestational age, sex, or birth order. Parental ratings of temperament and behavior were used at appropriate ages: the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire, the Toddler Temperament Scale, the Childhood Temperament Questionnaire, Behaviour Checklist, Preschool Behaviour Questionnaire, and Rutter's Childhood Behaviour Questionnaire (CBQ), as well as mother's overall rating of temperament. In infancy there were no significant differences on temperament dimensions, clinical temperament categories, or parental ratings of individual or composite behaviors between the preterm and full-term groups. For toddlers, temperament scores were similar for the two groups but preterm subjects were significantly more likely (P less than .01) to have an easy temperament and less likely to have a difficult temperament. There were no differences on any of the other temperament or behavior ratings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Joint effects of child temperament and maternal sensitivity on the development of childhood obesity.	The interplay between child characteristics and parenting is increasingly implicated as crucial to child health outcomes. This study assessed the joint effects of children's temperamental characteristics and maternal sensitivity on children's weight status. Data from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development's Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development were utilized. Infant temperament, assessed at child's age of 6 months by maternal report, was categorized into three types: easy, average, and difficult. Maternal sensitivity, assessed at child's age of 6 months by observing maternal behaviors during mother-child semi-structured interaction, was categorized into two groups: sensitive and insensitive. Children's height and weight were measured longitudinally from age 2 years to Grade 6, and body mass index (BMI) was calculated. BMI percentile was obtained based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's BMI charts. Children, who had a BMI  the 85th percentile, were defined as overweight-or-obese. Generalized estimating equations were used to analyze the data. The proportions of children overweight-or-obese increased with age, 15.58% at 2 years old to 34.34% by Grade 6. The joint effects of children's temperament and maternal sensitivity on a child's body mass status depended on the child's age. For instance, children with difficult temperament and insensitive mothers had significantly higher risks for being overweight-or-obese during the school age phase but not during early childhood. Specific combinations of child temperament and maternal sensitivity were associated with the development of obesity during childhood. Findings may hold implications for childhood obesity prevention/intervention programs targeting parents.
Contrasting roles for lateral and ventromedial prefrontal cortex in transient and dispositional affective experience.	Prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been implicated in the experience and regulation of emotional states. Emotional experience is a complex construct, encompassing a range of more specific processes. This exploratory study aimed to delineate which (if any) aspects of emotional experience rely critically on either the ventromedial frontal (VMF) or lateral frontal (LF) lobes. The affective experience of individuals with damage to these regions was surveyed in detail using several measures and compared with that of control participants. Dependent measures included subjective and observer ratings of both dispositional affect and transient responses to laboratory mood inductions. VMF damage was associated with greater negative dispositional affect relative to controls and to individuals with LF damage; however, transient responses to emotional stimuli were largely normal. In contrast, LF damage was associated with an exaggerated subjective reactivity to sad emotional stimuli relative to control participants, but normal dispositional affect. Interestingly, neither form of PFC damage affected spontaneous emotion recovery following the mood inductions. These findings suggest a role for VMF in modulating dispositional negative affect; in contrast, LF areas appear to be critical in regulating transient emotional responses while emotional stimuli are present. This study also illustrates the dissociability of different aspects of emotional experience in patients with focal brain injury.
Correlates of diurnal sleep patterns in infants of adolescent and adult single mothers.	Sleep behavior has been related to both child and environmental factors, but the relative importance of these factors is not yet clear. This study was an examination of the relation of diurnal sleep patterns to perinatal risk, infant temperament, home environment, parenting stress, emotional support, and social class. Twenty-three adolescent and 23 single adult mothers and infants were assessed in the home at 4 and 12 months. Percent sleep during the night was most strongly related to parenting stress and variability of night sleep to emotional support. Emotional support mediated effects of stress at 4 months. Results support the value of clinical assessment of sleep behavior.
Cognitive-behavioral therapies for personality disorders.	Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) has been strongly identified as a time-limited treatment approach for Axis-I disorders, but CBT models for addressing personality disorders - enduring patterns of relational and emotional difficulties - are gaining greater attention. This review touches on three influential models: Beck's cognitive therapy (CT), Young's schema focused therapy (SFT), and Linehan's dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), presenting the rationale for their development, main theoretical components, and a brief discussion of their goals and means, along with a review of the growing evidence base supporting their effectiveness. The need for integrative models for treatment of this population is noted.
Individual differences in emotionality: social temperament and health.	Individual differences, the importance of which was identified by Darwin more than 150 years ago, are evident in multiple domains. This review discusses the role of temperament in health-related outcomes in rhesus monkeys. Temperament is proposed as affecting health outcomes via behavioral means, and also via physical means either through its direct association with variation in physiological systems (a "main effects" model), or through its impact on functioning when organisms are in stressful circumstances (an "interaction effects" model). The specific temperament factor described is Sociability, which reflects a tendency to affiliate, and which is associated with positive affect, and with differences in sensitivity of brain dopamine systems. Data are reviewed showing that individual differences in Sociability in rhesus monkeys are related to variation in sympathetic innervation of lymphoid tissue (a main effect), as well as to patterns of coping in socially stressful circumstances (an interaction effect). Results such as these have implications for studies in behavioral ecology, medicine, and even for management practices in captive colonies of nonhuman primates.
An ecological risk model for early childhood anxiety: the importance of early child symptoms and temperament.	Childhood anxiety is impairing and associated with later emotional disorders. Studying risk factors for child anxiety may allow earlier identification of at-risk children for prevention efforts. This study applied an ecological risk model to address how early childhood anxiety symptoms, child temperament, maternal anxiety and depression symptoms, violence exposure, and sociodemographic risk factors predict school-aged anxiety symptoms. This longitudinal, prospective study was conducted in a representative birth cohort (n=1109). Structural equation modeling was used to examine hypothesized associations between risk factors measured in toddlerhood/preschool (age=3.0years) and anxiety symptoms measured in kindergarten (age=6.0years) and second grade (age=8.0years). Early child risk factors (anxiety symptoms and temperament) emerged as the most robust predictor for both parent-and child-reported anxiety outcomes and mediated the effects of maternal and family risk factors. Implications for early intervention and prevention studies are discussed.
Infant temperament and high-risk environment relate to behavior problems and language in toddlers.	This study examined the role that easy infant temperament and cumulative environmental risk play in predicting cognitive, language, and behavioral outcomes in 3-year-old children at high social risk.
The politics of attention: gaze-cuing effects are moderated by political temperament.	Gaze cues lead to reflexive shifts of attention even when those gaze cues do not predict target location. Although this general effect has been repeatedly demonstrated, not all individuals orient to gaze in an identical manner. For example, the magnitude of gaze-cuing effects have been reduced or eliminated in populations such as those scoring high on the Autism-Spectrum Quotient and in males relative to females (since males exhibit more autism-like traits). In the present study, we examined whether gaze cue effects would be moderated by political temperament, given that those on the political right tend to be more supportive of individualism--and less likely to be influenced by others--than those on the left. We found standard gaze-cuing effects across all subjects but systematic differences in these effects by political temperament. Liberals exhibited a very large gaze-cuing effect, whereas conservatives showed no such effect at various stimulus onset asynchronies.
Biological sensitivity to context moderates the effects of the early teacher-child relationship on the development of mental health by adolescence.	The moderating effects of biological sensitivity to context (physiological and behavioral stress reactivity) on the association between the early teacher-child relationship and the development of adolescent mental health problems were examined in a community sample of 96 children. Grade 1 measures of biological sensitivity to context included physiological (i.e., slope of mean arterial pressure across a 20- to 30-min stress protocol) and behavioral (i.e., temperamental inhibition/disinhibition) markers. Grade 1 measures of the teacher-child relationship included positive (i.e., closeness) and negative (i.e., conflict) qualities. Mental health symptoms were assessed at Grades 1 and 7. Results of a multiple regression analysis indicated substantial association of the teacher-child relationship with the development of adolescent mental health symptoms, especially for more reactive children. In addition to teacher-child relationship main effects, all four Reactivity x Teacher-Child Relationship interaction terms were statistically significant when controlling for Grade 1 symptom severity, suggesting that both physiological and behavioral reactivity moderate the association of both adverse and supportive aspects of the teacher-child relationship with Grade 7 symptom severity over and above Grade 1 severity. There were important differences, depending on which stress reactivity measure was considered. The importance of these findings for recent theoretical arguments regarding biological sensitivity to context and differential susceptibility is discussed.
Early adolescents' temperament, emotion regulation during mother-child interactions, and depressive symptomatology.	This study examined the relations among temperament, emotion regulation, and depressive symptoms in early adolescents. Early adolescents provided self-reports of temperament on two occasions, as well as reports on emotion regulation and depressive symptomatology. Furthermore, 163 of these adolescents participated in event-planning and problem-solving interactions with their mothers. Adolescents with temperaments that were high in negative emotionality or low in effortful control displayed more emotionally dysregulated behaviors during the interaction tasks, reported having maladaptive responses to negative affect more often and adaptive responses less often, and had more depressive symptoms. In particular, adolescents with the high negative emotionality and low effortful control temperament combination reported the highest levels of depressive symptomatology. Sequential analyses of family interactions indicated that adolescents with more depressive symptoms were more likely to reciprocate their mothers' negative affective behaviors. Adolescents' adaptive and maladaptive responses to negative affect mediated the associations between their temperament and concurrent depressive symptoms.
Personality differences between alcohol abusers and matched controls: Relation to frontal symptoms and subtypes of addicts]	Epidemiological studies usually show a link between personality disorders and addictions. Dimensional models of personality, such as that of Cloninger, are able to diagnose and discriminate between transient dysfunctional behavior styles and relatively more stable traits. Certain brain areas have been proposed, as trait locations, based on their activation. This paper explores differences in personality traits among a sample of alcohol abusers (N= 95) and a control group of non-clinical population (N= 95), matched in sociodemographic variables, using the TCI-R-67 and the FrSBe-Sp. It is hypothesized that such differences are associated with frontal symptomatology. The existence of different subgroups of addicts based on certain combinations of traits is also analyzed. Results showed significant differences in two temperament traits (Novelty Seeking and Harm Avoidance) and a characterial trait (Self-Direction). We also found a correlation with a large effect size between these traits and frontal symptomatology. Cluster analysis classified the participants into several subtypes with different combinations of traits that matched diverse frontal symptomatology. Possible neurobiological explanations of these differences and their importance in the clinical practice are discussed.
Psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the Frost Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale in women.	This instrumental study was designed to analyze the psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the Frost Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale (FMPS). The total sample was made up of 582 female college students, with a mean age of 21.68 (SD= 4.45). The results of confirmatory factor analysis identified the six-factor solution proposed by the original authors as the best factor structure, with acceptable fit indices. Cronbach's alpha coefficient was .93 for the FMPS total score and ranged from .74 to .91 for the subscales. Test-retest reliability suggested a good temporal stability of the FMPS total score [ICC= .89 (95% CI= .80-.94)] and its subscales. Results showed moderate to high associations between the Spanish version of the FMPS and other measures of perfectionism. The Spanish version of FMPS has shown satisfactory psychometric properties to be used in women. Future research should replicate these findings in broader samples, in clinical populations, and use longitudinal designs to determine whether perfectionism is a risk factor for psychopathology in women.
Spanish adaptation of the EAS Temperament Survey for the assessment of child temperament]	Better understanding of child temperament is essential, as it may predict subsequent development of psychopathology. Questionnaires which have been adapted to Spanish population include a rather restricted age range. The Emotionality Sociability and Activity (EAS) Temperament Survey has been widely used in child temperament genetic research. A Spanish version of the scale was administered to a sample of 229 mothers and to their children at 18 and 42 months of age. Its psychometric features were examined. Results showed accuracy indices akin to that obtained in prior studies. Findings suggest a three-factor structure for the assessment of temperament.
Insight, rumination, and self-reflection as predictors of well-being.	Dispositional private self-focused attention variables such as insight, internal self-awareness (ISA), and self-reflectiveness (SR) have been found to relate to well-being. The present study sought to determine which dispositional private self-focused attention variables have the most predictive power for subjective well-being as measured by the Satisfaction With Life Scale (E. Diener, R. A. Emmons, R. J. Larsen, & S. Griffin, 1985) and for a eudaemonic form of well-being as measured by the Psychological Well-Being Scale (C. D. Ryff, 1989). A total of 121 college student participants completed an online version of the Self-Consciousness Scale-Revised, the Rumination-Reflection Questionnaire, the Self-Reflection and Insight Scale, the Satisfaction With Life Scale, and the Psychological WellBeing Scale. Results of a multivariate regression analysis using the Self-Consciousness Scale-Revised's (M. F. Scheier & C. S. Carver, 1985) subfactors of SR and ISA, the Rumination-Reflection Questionnaire's (P. D. Trapnell & J. D. Campbell, 1999) subscales of Rumination and Reflection, and the Self-Reflection and Insight Scale's (A. M. Grant, J. Franklin, & P. Langford, 2002) Self-Reflection and Insight subscales revealed that the Insight subscale was the only statistically significant predictor (a positive predictor) for all 6 dimensions of psychological well-being. Insight was also the only significant positive predictor for satisfaction with life. The Rumination subscale was a significant negative predictor for 3 dimensions of psychological well-being, and the Reflection subscale was a significant positive predictor for 1 dimension. Implications of dispositional self-awareness variables and their relation to dimensions of well-being are discussed.
Preliminary evidence for the construct and concurrent validity of the DS14 in Hebrew.	Type D personality is a risk indicator in cardiac patients. While both the validity and reliability of the Type D scale (DS14) have been confirmed in Western Europe, less attention has been paid to the subject in other nations.
Mental and motor development and psychosocial adjustment of Chinese children with phenylketonuria.	This study was designed to evaluate mental and motor development, psychosocial adjustment (temperament and behavioural problems) in children with phenylketonuria (PKU).
White matter integrity in individuals at high genetic risk of bipolar disorder.	Bipolar disorder is a familial psychiatric disorder associated with reduced white matter integrity, but it is not clear whether such abnormalities are present in young unaffected relatives and, if so, whether they have behavioral correlates. We investigated with whole brain diffusion tensor imaging whether increased genetic risk for bipolar disorder is associated with reductions in white matter integrity and whether these reductions are associated with cyclothymic temperament.
Personality and injury risk among professional hockey players.	Although much is known about risk for athletic injury, research on the roles of individual differences in personality and temperament on athletic injury has lagged. We hypothesized that professional athletes with high sensation-seeking and extraversion scores, and with low effortful control scores, would experience more injuries over the course of a season, would have more severe injuries, and would miss more total days of play.
Dispositional empathy and the hierarchical structure of personality.	Personality psychology has recognized a fundamental 5-factor structure that has integrated and organized theory and research. Nevertheless, personality-like differences beyond that structure have been identified. In heretofore unrelated research, dispositional empathy has been an essential construct in understanding human development, behavior, and interpersonal relationships. Addressing a gap in the literature, we map multidimensional dispositional empathy into 2 versions of the 5-factor space. Empathic concern is closely related to agreeableness, and personal distress is closely related to neuroticism. Perspective taking has complex, interstitial relationships with the 5 factors. In contrast, fantasy is not well explained by the 5 factors. We discuss the implications of these findings for understanding dispositional empathy and for understanding the 5-factor structure, its correlates in emotional processes and experiences, and its limits.
Preoperative anxiety in adolescents undergoing surgery: a pilot study.	The purpose of this study was to conduct a prospective assessment of preoperative anxiety in adolescents undergoing surgery.
Relationship between cynicism and job satisfaction: exploration of mechanisms.	Personality traits related to evaluation of other people and the world are important to study in relation to job satisfaction, which itself is an evaluation of various facets of a job, including the social dimensions. Accordingly, the relationship between cynicism and job satisfaction was studied. Cynicism was expected to be negatively related to job satisfaction, employees' perceptions of job enrichment, quality of leader-member exchange, and support from coworkers. Survey data from 105 employees in a diverse set of organizations (M age = 48 yr.; 50% women; M work experience = 28 yr.; 73% had >16 yr. education) were subjected to hierarchical regression. Individuals high in Cynicism were likely to have lower job satisfaction, job enrichment, quality of leader-member exchange, and perceptions of co-worker support.
Relationships between self-regulation skills and physical activity and fruit and vegetable consumption in obese adults: mediation of mood and self-efficacy.	In cognitive-behavioral treatments for obesity, self-regulation is thought to be a strong predictor of behavioral change, but it is rarely directly measured in intervention research. Thus, how self-regulation interacts with other psychological variables regarding treatment effects is largely unknown. In this preliminary field study, self-regulatory skills were directly measured and were found to be significantly associated with both volume of exercise and fruit and vegetable consumption in severely obese adults (N=116) enrolled in a behavioral weight management program. Significant partial and complete mediation of the relationship between self-regulation for physical activity and physical activity, and self-regulation for appropriate eating and fruit and vegetable intake, respectively, were found by reported negative mood. Self-efficacy was not found to be a significant mediator of these relationships. The bivariate relationship between baseline scores of self-regulation for physical activity and self-regulation for appropriate eating was significant (r = .46), which supported the premise that self-regulation is a trait-like personal characteristic. Volume of exercise and fruit and vegetable consumption significantly predicted weight loss over 6 months (R2 = .35). Results were consistent with the few laboratory-based findings available and, after replication, may extend theory related to obesity treatment.
Florida creativity index scores, conservatism, and openness in 268 U.S. regions.	This study assessed whether Florida's Creativity Index (2002) scores for 268 U.S. regions were related to levels of conservatism and openness in the states in which the regions were situated. State conservatism was measured as the percentage voting for Bush in 2000. State openness z scores were taken from a survey of 619,397 residents (Rentfrow, Gosling, & Potter, 2008). Creativity scores correlated negatively with conservatism (r = -.22) and positively with openness (r = .23). Regression showed that the two predictors accounted jointly (7%) and separately for significant variance in the Creativity Index. The findings contribute evidence for the construct validity of Florida's composite Creativity Index and some, albeit moderate to weak, support of the Rentfrow, et al. conclusion that state-aggregated openness reflects the unconventionality, tolerance, and creativity of a state.
Personality and mental health: an investigation of South African police trainees.	The relationship between personality and mental health was investigated in one cohort of police trainees at a South African police academy (1145 police recruits; 648 men, 497 women). Male trainees reported less somatisation, depression, anxiety, and phobic anxiety symptoms and lower harm avoidance as well as higher persistence than female trainees. A cluster analysis based on the personality scores was used to identify three clusters with personality profiles characterized as Vulnerable, Healthy, and Intermediate profiles. Sociodemographic variables and temperament and character domain scores contributed separately and differentially to the explanation of variance in mental health symptom scores. Selection tools should be developed to identify vulnerable individuals in terms of personality characteristics during selection and prior to training, to prevent later problems with stress reactions. Additional training modules focusing on coping skills could possibly reduce vulnerability to stress in some trainees.
The neural basis of familial risk and temperamental variation in individuals at high risk of bipolar disorder.	Bipolar disorder is a highly heritable psychiatric disorder characterized by episodic elevation or depression of mood. Bipolar disorder is associated with structural and functional brain abnormalities but it is unclear whether these are present in relatives of affected individuals and if they are associated with subclinical symptoms or traits associated with the disorder.
Simple model for temperature control of glycolytic oscillations.	We introduce the temperature-dependent autocatalytic coefficient into the Merkin-Needham-Scott version of the Selkov system and consider the resulting equations as a model for temperature-controlled, self-sustained glycolytic oscillations in a closed reactor. It has been shown that this simple model reproduces key features observed in the experiments with temperature growth: (i) exponentially decreasing period of oscillations; (ii) reversal of relative duration leading and tail fronts. The applied model also reproduces the modulations of oscillations induced by the periodic temperature change.
Temperament, post-partum depression, hopelessness, and suicide risk among women soon after delivering.	The aim of the authors in this study was to assess the prevalence of postpartum depression and evaluate the association of affective temperaments with emotional disorders in a sample of 92 pregnant women consecutively admitted for delivery between March and December 2009. In the first few days postpartum, women completed the Suicidal History Self-rating Screening Scale, the Beck Hopelessness Scale, the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale, the Temperament Evaluation of the Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego Autoquestionnaire, and the Gotland Male Depression Scale. Fifty percent of the women reported an Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale score of 9 or higher, and 23% a score of 13 or higher. Women with a dysphoric-dysregulated temperament had higher mean scores on the Beck Hopelessness Scale (p < 0.05), the Gotland Male Depression Scale (p < 0.001), the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (p < 0.001), and the Suicidal History Self-Rating Screening Scale (p < 0.01) than other women after adjusting for covariates. Multiple logistic regression analysis with the temperament groups as the dependent variable indicated that only the Gotland Male Depression Scale was significantly associated with temperament when controlling for the presence of other variables. Women with a dysphoric-dysregulated temperament were 1.23 times as likely to have higher depressive symptom scores. Future studies should evaluate the effectiveness of psychiatric screening programs in the postpartum period as well as factors associated with depression and suicidality during the same period.
The clinical importance of affective temperaments]	Intensive research on affective temperaments began no more than a decade ago as a result of Akiskal's work in the field. Based on ancient Greek and later the Kraepelinian concept of temperament Akiskal created five distinct temperament types (hyperthym, cyclothym, depressive, irritable and anxious) which are now considered to be the preclinical background of affective disorders. In collaboration with an international workgroup, a semi-structured (TEMPS-I) and a self-rated (TEMPS-A) questionnaire was developed and translated into more than 25 languages intensifying research activity in the field. Based upon search of different databases (Scopus, Web of Knowledge, OVID Medline, PubMed, Psychinfo) and hand search of relevant Hungarian language literature, our review article aims to summarize current knowledge on affective temperaments. We cover their role in psychiatric and non-psychiatric disorders, investigate the scientific knowledge on their possible genetic background, highlight their importance on intercultural differences and outline the possibilities for future research discovering the common background between depression and other - non-psychiatric - disorders.
Adolescent temperament and parental control in the development of the adolescent decision making in a Chilean sample.	The study analyzes the way in which adolescents' temperamental characteristics interact with parental control to shape adolescent decision making development. A sample of high-school Chilean adolescents (N = 391) answered a self-report questionnaire that included measures of behavioral autonomy (the extent to which adolescents make decisions in personal and prudential domains), parental behavioral and psychological control, and temperamental characteristics. A path analysis model indicated that adolescents' anger-frustration had a direct association with decision-making in the personal and prudential domains; fearfulness had an inverse association with adolescent decision-making, but only in the prudential domain. Perceived psychological control was associated with adolescents' reduced decision-making autonomy in the personal domain, while perceived behavioral control was associated with less adolescent autonomy in both personal and prudential domains. Additionally, a moderation effect was found such that the association of parental behavioral control on decision-making in the prudential domain was dependent on the adolescent fearfulness level.
Adult attachment styles and cognitive vulnerability to depression in a sample of undergraduate students: the mediational roles of sociotropy and autonomy.	We analysed the mediational role of the personality dimensions of sociotropy and autonomy in the relationship between certain styles of attachment and depressive symptoms. In order for us to do so, a group of university students filled out the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), the Revised Personal Style Inventory (PSI-II) and the Relationship Questionnaire (RQ). Individuals having attachment styles with a negative model of self (preoccupied and fearful) obtained significantly higher scores in the BDI than those having attachment styles with a positive model of self (secure and dismissing), which coincides with previous research. We followed the standard procedure of Baron and Kenny of linear regression in order to perform the mediational analyses. The preoccupied attachment style-depressive symptoms relationship was mediated by sociotropy. It was also found that autonomy exerted a significant mediational effect on the relationship between the fearful attachment style and depressive symptoms. These results are consistent with the notion that insecure attachment predisposes individuals to the development of depressogenic personality styles. Thus, the findings of the present study contribute to improving the understanding of the factors involved in the development of vulnerability to depression. Furthermore, the results point out the importance of evaluating both attachment style and sociotropy/autonomy personality dimensions for the treatment of depressive patients.
Dispositional optimism among American and Jordanian college students: are Westerners really more upbeat than Easterners?	The present study aimed at assessing some previous research conclusions, based primarily on comparisons of North Americans and East Asians, that Westerners tend to be optimistic while Easterners tend to be pessimistic. Two samples of European American and Jordanian college students were administered a questionnaire consisting of items measuring dispositional optimism along with items pertaining to risk and self-protective behaviors (e.g., seatbelt use, vehicular speeding, smoking) and social and demographic factors (e.g., sex, socioeconomic status, religiosity). The findings uncovered dispositional optimism to be stronger for American compared to Jordanian participants. Separate analyses of optimism versus pessimism revealed that Jordanian participants were more pessimistic, but not less optimistic than their American counterparts. No significant correlations were found between dispositional optimism and sex, socioeconomic status, or religiosity. The levels of optimism displayed by Jordanians in this study are inconsistent with previous claims of an optimistic West and a pessimistic East, and suggest that self-enhancing processes may not be confined to Western or highly individualistic groups. The findings did not uncover an association between dispositional optimism and risk or self-protective behaviors. Multiple regression analyses showed cultural background and sex to be the best predictors of these behaviors. The implications of these findings are discussed.   La prsente tude avait pour but d'valuer quelques conclusions de recherches passes, fondes principalement sur des comparaisons de nord-amricains et d'asiatiques de l'est, indiquant que les occidentaux tendent  tre optimistes alors que les orientaux tendent  tre pessimistes. Deux chantillons d'tudiants amricains-europens et jordaniens du collge ont rempli un questionnaire ayant des items mesurant l'optimisme dispositionnel avec d'autres items qui portent sur les comportements de risque et d'auto-protection (e.g., la ceinture de scurit, la vitesse au volant, l'usage de tabac), sur les facteurs sociaux et dmographiques (e.g., le sexe, le statut socio-conomique, la religiosit). Les rsultats ont indiqu que l'optimisme dispositionnel tait plus fort chez les amricains en comparaison aux participants jordaniens. Des analyses spares de l'optimisme versus le pessimisme ont montr que les participants jordaniens n'taient pas pessimistes mais pas moins optimistes que leurs homologues amricains. Il n'y avait pas de corrlations significatives entre l'optimisme dispotionnel et le sexe, le statut socio-conomique et la religiosit. Les niveaux d'optimisme dispotionnel affichs par les jordaniens dans cette tude sont inconsistents avec les affirmations passes d'un occident optimiste et d'un orient pessimiste et suggrent que les processus d'auto-amlioration pourraient ne pas tre restreints aux occidentaux ou aux groupes hautement individualistes. Les rsultats n'ont pas dvoil une association entre l'optimise dispotionnel et les comportements de risque ou les comportements d'auto-protection. Des analyses de rgression multiples ont indiqu que le contexte culturel et le sexe sont les meilleurs prdicteurs de ces comportements. Les implications de ces rsultats sont discutes.   El presente estudio se bas en la evaluacin de algunas conclusiones de investigaciones anteriores, basadas principalmente en comparaciones de habitantes de norteamericanos con habitantes del Asia del este, en las que se propona que mientras los occidentales tienden a ser optimistas, los orientales tienden a ser pesimistas. En dos muestras de estudiantes de la escuela superior europeo-americanos y jordanos se administr un cuestionario que consiste en preguntas que miden el optimismo disposicional junto con preguntas que evalan conductas de riesgo y de autoproteccin (p.e., uso de cinturn de seguridad, velocidad de manejo, fumar) as como factores sociales y demogrficos (p.e., sexualidad, estatus socioeconmico, religiosidad). Las conclusiones sealaron que el optimismo disposicional es ms fuerte en los participantes americanos en comparacin con los jordanos. Anlisis separados del optimismo en relacin con el pesimismo revelaron que los participantes jordanos eran ms pesimistas, pero no menos optimistas que sus homlogos americanos. No se encontraron correlaciones significativas entre optimismo disposicional y sexualidad, estatus socioeconmico o religiosidad. El nivel de optimismo mostrado por los jordanos en este estudio es inconsistente con las propuestas anteriores de un Oeste optimista y un Este pesimista, y sugiere que los procesos de autodesarrollo no pueden ser limitados a grupos Occidentales o altamente individualistas. Las resultados no mostraron una asociacin entre optimismo disposicional y conductas de riesgo o autoprotectoras. Los anlisis de regresin mltiples mostraron que el contexto cultural y la sexualidad son los mejores predictores de estas conductas. Las implicaciones de estos hallazgos fueron discutidas.
Why did I become a nurse? Personality traits and reasons for entering nursing.	This article is a report of a mixed method study of the association between personality traits of nurses and their reasons for entering nursing. Background. The worldwide nursing shortage prompts research into better understanding of why individuals enter nursing and may assist in exploring ways to increase their recruitment and long term retention.
Differential susceptibility effects: the interaction of negative emotionality and sibling relationship quality on childhood internalizing problems and social skills.	Whereas socialization influences in early childhood have been linked to children's emerging internalizing problems and prosocial behavior, relatively few studies have examined how NE might moderate such associations in both advantageous and maladaptive ways. Furthermore, more research is needed to evaluate the impact of sibling relationships as an influential socialization influence on these child outcomes. In the current study we examined how NE might differentially moderate the associations between quality of relationships with siblings and both internalizing problems and social skills at school entry. NE moderated the effects of positive and destructive sibling relationship quality on child internalizing problems. Specifically, for boys high on NE, more positive sibling relationship quality predicted fewer internalizing problems, but more destructive sibling conflict predicted more internalizing problems. NE also moderated the effects of destructive sibling conflict on child social skills. For boys high on NE, destructive sibling conflict predicted fewer social skills. Boys high on NE appear to show greater susceptibility to the effects of sibling socialization on child outcomes, relative to boys low on NE. The implications of these interactions are discussed with respect to differential susceptibility theory.
The hierarchical structure of DSM-5 pathological personality traits.	A multidimensional trait system has been proposed for representing personality disorder (PD) features in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) to address problematic classification issues such as comorbidity. In this model, which may also assist in providing scaffolding for the underlying structure of major forms of psychopathology more generally, 25 primary traits are organized by 5 higher order dimensions: Negative Affect, Detachment, Antagonism, Disinhibition, and Psychoticism. We examined (a) the generalizability of the structure proposed for DSM-5 PD traits, and (b) the potential for an integrative hierarchy based upon DSM-5 PD traits to represent the dimensions scaffolding psychopathology more generally. A large sample of student participants (N = 2,461) completed the Personality Inventory for DSM-5, which operationalizes the DSM-5 traits. Exploratory factor analysis replicated the initially reported 5-factor structure, as indicated by high factor congruencies. The 2-, 3-, and 4-factor solutions estimated in the hierarchy of the DSM-5 traits bear close resemblance to existing models of common mental disorders, temperament, and personality pathology. Thus, beyond the description of individual differences in personality disorder, the trait dimensions might provide a framework for the metastructure of psychopathology in the DSM-5 and the integration of a number of ostensibly competing models of personality trait covariation.
A parallel process growth model of avoidant personality disorder symptoms and personality traits.	Avoidant personality disorder (AVPD), like other personality disorders, has historically been construed as a highly stable disorder. However, results from a number of longitudinal studies have found that the symptoms of AVPD demonstrate marked change over time. Little is known about which other psychological systems are related to this change. Although cross-sectional research suggests a strong relationship between AVPD and personality traits, no work has examined the relationship of their change trajectories. The current study sought to establish the longitudinal relationship between AVPD and basic personality traits using parallel process growth curve modeling. Parallel process growth curve modeling was applied to the trajectories of AVPD and basic personality traits from the Longitudinal Study of Personality Disorders (Lenzenweger, M. F., 2006, The longitudinal study of personality disorders: History, design considerations, and initial findings. Journal of Personality Disorders, 20, 645-670. doi:10.1521/pedi.2006.20.6.645), a naturalistic, prospective, multiwave, longitudinal study of personality disorder, temperament, and normal personality. The focus of these analyses is on the relationship between the rates of change in both AVPD symptoms and basic personality traits. AVPD symptom trajectories demonstrated significant negative relationships with the trajectories of interpersonal dominance and affiliation, and a significant positive relationship to rates of change in neuroticism. These results provide some of the first compelling evidence that trajectories of change in PD symptoms and personality traits are linked. These results have important implications for the ways in which temporal stability is conceptualized in AVPD specifically, and PD in general.
The duration of untreated psychosis is associated with social support and temperament.	The duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) has been suggested to be a modifiable factor influencing psychosis outcome. There are many studies on the factors that predict DUP, although with contradictory findings. Although temperament has been associated with seeking help in other pathologies, studies about how temperament influences DUP are lacking. This study explored the role of temperament (measured by the Eysenck Personality Inventory Questionnaire) on DUP and tested the hypothesis that social support modifies the effects of neuroticism and extraversion on DUP. We evaluated 97 first-episode psychosis patients. The effect of temperament, affective diagnosis and social support (measured by the Social Support Index) on DUP was explored through a multivariate analysis using Cox regression model. Once psychotic symptoms had started, a patient with affective psychosis was 76% more likely to start antipsychotic medications than a patient with non-affective psychosis of comparable time without treatment (adjusted hazard ratio, HR, 1.76; 95% CI, (1.07, 2.9)). There was a significant interaction between diffuse social support and neuroticism (p=0.04). Among patients who had a good diffuse social support, a patient with a high neuroticism score was 45% less likely to start antipsychotic medication than a time-comparable patient with a low neuroticism (HR, 0.55 (0.32, 0.95)). Among patients who had a low neuroticism score, a patient with poor diffuse social support was 56% less likely to start antipsychotic medication than a comparable patient with good support (HR, 0.44 (0.23, 0.86)). In conclusion, patients with affective psychosis had significantly shorter DUPs. In patients with a good diffuse social support, low neuroticism scores were significantly associated with decreased DUP. In patients with low neuroticism scores, a poor diffuse social support was associated with a significant increase in DUP.
Sex-specific influence of DRD2 on ADHD-type temperament in a large population-based birth cohort.	Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a childhood-onset neurodevelopmental disorder with a significant public-health impact. Previously, we described a candidate gene study in a population-based birth cohort that demonstrated an association with ADHD-affected males and the dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2). The current study evaluates potential associations of dopamine receptor genes and Cloninger temperament traits within this same sample. Participants with stringent lifetime ADHD diagnoses were ascertained systematically from the genetically isolated Northern Finland 1986 Birth Cohort (n=9432), resulting in 178 cases and 157 controls. Markers in all known dopamine receptor genes were genotyped. We report an association of DRD2 with low Persistence in females (rs1079727 P=0.02, rs1124491 P=0.02, rs1800497 P=0.03). The associated DRD2 minor allelic haplotype (CAA, P=0.03) is the same haplotype we previously associated with ADHD in males in this birth cohort. The current study further supports previous results on the role of DRD2 in individuals with ADHD. Investigations suggest that DRD2 may have an impact on both males and females, but the particular outcome appears sex-specific, manifesting as ADHD in males and low Persistence in females. Furthermore, these findings suggest that the putative role of low Persistence as an endophenotype for ADHD deserves further investigation.
Precursors and correlates of anxiety trajectories from late childhood to late adolescence.	The present research employed a prospective, multi-informant design to examine precursors and correlates of differing anxiety profiles from late childhood to late adolescence. The sample consisted of 626 boys and 667 girls who are participants in the Australian Temperament Project, a large, longitudinal, community-based study that has followed young people's psychosocial adjustment from infancy to adulthood. The present research analyzes data collected from the first 12 waves of data, from 4-8 months to 17 years. Parents, primary school teachers, maternal and child health nurses, and from the age of 11 onward, the young people themselves have provided survey data. Trajectory analyses revealed three distinct patterns of self-reported anxiety from late childhood to late adolescence, comprising low, moderate, and high (increasing) trajectories, which differed somewhat between boys and girls. A range of parent- and teacher-reported factors was found to be associated with these trajectories, including temperament style, behavior problems, social skills, parenting, negative family events, and peer relationships. Compared with male trajectories, female trajectories were associated with a greater variety of psychosocial variables (including parenting and externalizing problems), which may partially account for the higher prevalence of anxiety in adolescent girls compared with boys. Findings shed light on gender-specific pathways to anxiety and the need for comprehensive, integrative approaches to intervention and prevention programs.
Cyclothymia.	Over the last three decades, cyclothymia has been positioned in one of two principal ways: formally classified as a mood disorder, and less formally categorized at a "cyclothymic temperament" (CT) level. This review considers its historic evolution and provides five models for conceptualizing independence or interdependence between cyclothymia as a temperament style and as a formal mood disorder. Findings argue for CT to be conceded and appropriately defined. Secondly, it is recommended that cyclothymia's expression as a mood disorder should be positioned within the bipolar II disorder class-albeit perhaps having briefer mood swings and fewer episodes, more rapid cycling, and greater reactivity to environmental factors than is conceptualized currently for bipolar II disorders. By allowing cyclothymia both axis I and axis II status (although necessitating differing terminology), research evaluating any shared biological underpinnings and any predisposition provided by the CT temperament style to a later formalized bipolar II condition would be advanced.
Current suicidality and previous suicidal attempts in patients with schizophrenia are associated with different dimensions of temperament and character.	Suicide is a major public health problem and the leading cause of premature death in patients with schizophrenia. Information about the patient's personality is helpful for assessing the risk of suicide attempts and suicidal ideation. The sample consisted of 120 outpatients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, 29 of whom had previously attempted suicide. We used the Temperament and Character Inventory to assess personality differences between patients who had previously attempted and had not previously attempted suicide and between patients who had and did not have current suicidal ideation. Current suicidal ideation was assessed using the four-point severity scale, which is item nine from the Beck Depression Inventory. The character dimension Self-transcendence was shown by logistic regression to be a predictor of lifetime suicide attempts. Low Self-directedness was shown to be a predictor of current suicidal ideation. To prevent suicidal behaviour, it is important to better understand the personality traits associated with suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. Suicide attempts and suicidal ideation in schizophrenia may not represent the same phenomenon ranging on a single continuum. The importance of these results suggests that further study is needed.
Infant difficulty and early weight gain: does fussing promote overfeeding?	Authors have recently suggested that difficult temperament in infancy may be associated with rapid weight gain, but no previous studies actually report associations between temperament and feeding as a response to infant distress. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether greater infant difficulty elicits more feeding, which in turn leads to more rapid weight gain in early infancy. One hundred fifty-four mother-infant pairs were visited at 3 and 6 months in their homes. Besides anthropometric measures, mothers kept a 24-h diary of their infants' sleep, cry and feed patterns, and answered questions regarding feeding and infant difficultness. The results showed that feeding occurred as a response to nearly half (48%) of the crying intervals recorded, though it more often occurred in the absence of crying (83%). Mothers were most likely to report holding or rocking their infant as the first strategy they would employ if their baby fussed or cried. A regression analysis that included crying, feeding, weaning, sleep and infant weight revealed maternal reports of numbers of feeds per day as the only variable that predicted weight gain from 3 to 6 months. Infant crying is often followed by feeding, and more frequent feeding may promote more rapid weight gain. However, feeding frequency in the first few months appears to be more a matter of maternal discretion than a yoked response to temperamental difficulty. This does not preclude the possibility that overfeeding in later infancy could be tied to temperamental difficulty and subsequently related to overweight in early childhood. 
Zuckerman-Kuhlman-Aluja Personality Questionnaire (ZKA-PQ) and Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory Revised (TCI-R): a comparative study.	The aim of this study was to compare the psychometric properties (normal distribution values, reliabilities and factor structure) of the Zuckerman-Kuhlman-Aluja Personality Questionnaire (ZKA-PQ) and the Temperament and Character Inventory revised (TCI-R). The total sample consisted of 482 subjects (53.1% men and 46.9% women) from diverse age. Results showed somewhat better psychometric properties, like reliability and facet-factor structure, for the ZKA-PQ than the TCI-R. The expected five-factor facet structure of the ZKA-PQ was clear found. However, the seven-factor structure of TCI-R was not clear and it did not show a clear distinction between Temperament and Character factors. When ZKA-PQ and TCI-R variables are analyzed together, the ZKA-PQ factors are related to the Character as well as the Temperament factors. In some cases they represent the opposite poles of ZKA-PQ factors; for example, Neuroticism versus Self-Directiveness and Aggression versus Cooperativeness. Some are directly and highly related to ZKA-PQ factors; for example, Sensation Seeking and Novelty Seeking, Extraversion and Reward Dependence, Neuroticism and Harm Avoidance, and Activity and Persistence.
Attention and attachment related behavior toward professional caregivers in child care centers: a new measure for toddlers.	The authors attempted to develop and validate the Toddler Attention Questionnaire (TAQ) by examining the relationship between attention and attachment to a professional caregiver. The psychometric reliability and validity of the TAQ was tested with 72 children ranging from 20 to 36 months old. Attentive processes were also measured by the Italian Questionnaire on Temperament, while attachment behaviors to professional caregivers were measured by the Attachment Q-Sort. Factor analysis supported four identifiable factors reflecting different concepts, theoretically discussed, related to attentive processes: attentive flexibility, attentive lability, attentive detachment, and attentive disorientation. Attachment security to professional caregivers is predicted through attentive flexibility and negative emotionality. Secure attachment behaviors were found to be related to flexibility of attention. The implications of the findings for future theoretical and empirical development of research in this field are also discussed.
Temperament and character in relation to sick leave duration in mentally disordered outpatients-the downside of novelty seeking and cooperativeness.	In 1254 mentally disordered outpatients (941 women, 313 men) length of sick leave in the preceding 12 months was documented (median 2 weeks) and axis I and axis II disorder (SCID screening, clinical interview), psychological distress (SCL-90-R), work-related distress and personality (Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI)) were assessed. Compared to healthy controls (N=152) patients scored lower on self-directedness and higher on harm avoidance. Longer incapacitated patients were more often female. On the basis of absence duration (<2 weeks; 2<4 weeks; 4 weeks) male and female patients were analysed separately. Main findings showed that women longer on sick leave scored significantly higher on novelty seeking and cooperativeness. Further analysis yielded a significant contribution of personality dimensions, including novelty seeking and cooperativeness to work-related distress in women, explaining 21.5% of variance. An association between lower formal education, older age and duration of work incapacity could only be confirmed in male patients. Personality-based difficulties in adequate distancing from professional demands, as well as personality-based problems in interpersonal conflict management, are discussed as possible explanations for study findings.
Exploring callous and unemotional traits in youth via general personality traits: An eye toward DSM-5.	The current study aimed at better understanding callous-unemotional (CU) traits in youth within a traditional personality trait/temperament framework as well as in relation to current proposals for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). Participants were 174 mothers and their sons age 11-16 years. Mothers and youth reported on youth CU traits and general personality trait/ temperament dimensions. Overall, analyses revealed significant unique associations of personality trait/temperament dimensions with CU total and subscale scores. Personality trait/temperament dimensions explained 36% to 58% of the variance in CU subscales and total score. Furthermore, specific personality dimensions differentially and uniquely predicted various CU subscales, indicating marked specificity in association such that these traits should be considered separately rather than as a single unit. Taken together, these results confirm the importance of considering traditional personality trait models to understand "callous and unemotional" traits and risk for psychopathy more fully. Additionally, our findings bear implications for the conceptualization and operationalization of these traits in DSM-5.
The effect of temperament and responsiveness towards humans on the behavior, physiology and milk production of multi-parous dairy cows in a familiar and novel milking environment.	The objectives of this study were to investigate whether; 1) temperament or 2) behavioral responsiveness to humans, can affect the behavior, physiology and productivity of dairy cows being milked in a familiar and novel milking environment. Temperament of multi-parous cows was defined based on exit time from a restraint device, as High Responders (HR; n=10), Medium Responders (MR; n=10) or Low Responders (LR; n=10). The behavioral response of cows to humans was assessed using four tests: restraint, exit speed, avoidance distance test and a voluntary approach test. Cows were milked according to their established routines in a rotary (familiar) milking parlor and behavioral, physiological and production data were collected over five consecutive days, including heart rate, cortisol and oxytocin concentrations and milk yield. The following week, cows were milked in a novel environment (herringbone parlor within the same farm facility) over five consecutive days, and the data and sample collection program was repeated. Cows were then given an exogenous adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) challenge to measure adrenal responsiveness. Exit time was negatively correlated with the behavioral responses of cows to restraint and human avoidance distance (HAD) in the paddock and arena. The behavioral response of cows to the milking process was greater in MR than LR and HR cows in the familiar and novel milking environments. Milk yields were greater in LR than HR cows in the novel but not the familiar milking parlor. Oxytocin concentrations increased during milking in the novel environment, regardless of cow temperament. In the familiar and novel environments, heart rates were higher in HR than LR cows before and during milking and rMSSD was lower in HR cows during milking in a novel environment. There was no difference in cortisol concentrations between LR and HR cows in response to an ACTH challenge, but HR cows had higher baseline cortisol levels than LR cows. The number of leg lifts cows performed when restrained in the crush was associated with several physiological and milk production measures. These results indicate that cows with different temperaments vary in their basal physiology as well as their behavioral and physiological responses to milking and stress associated with being milked in a novel environment.
Psychological factors affecting equine performance.	For optimal individual performance within any equestrian discipline horses must be in peak physical condition and have the correct psychological state. This review discusses the psychological factors that affect the performance of the horse and, in turn, identifies areas within the competition horse industry where current behavioral research and established behavioral modification techniques could be applied to further enhance the performance of animals. In particular, the role of affective processes underpinning temperament, mood and emotional reaction in determining discipline-specific performance is discussed. A comparison is then made between the training and the competition environment and the review completes with a discussion on how behavioral modification techniques and general husbandry can be used advantageously from a performance perspective.
Noninvasive measurements of carotenoids in bovine udder by reflection spectroscopy.	For a long time, the antioxidative status in cattle has been discussed as an indicator for stress conditions resulting from disease or exertion. Until now, invasive approaches have been necessary to obtain blood samples or biopsy materials and gain insights into the antioxidative status of cattle. Due to these efforts and the costs of the analyses, serial sampling is feasible in an experimental setting, but not for measurements on a routine basis. The present study focuses on the feasibility of an innovative, noninvasive spectroscopic technique that allows in vivo measurements of carotenoids in the skin by reflection spectroscopy. To this end, in a first trial, repeated measurements of the carotenoid concentration of the udder skin were performed on 25 healthy cattle from different breeds. Carotenoid concentrations showed highly significant differences between individual animals (P<0.001), although they were kept under the same environmental conditions and received the same diet. The carotenoid concentrations in "sensitive" and "robust" cows (evaluated by a temperament test) differed significantly (P<0.005), with higher concentrations observed in robust cows.
DRD4 and striatal modulation of the link between childhood behavioral inhibition and adolescent anxiety.	Behavioral inhibition (BI), a temperament characterized by vigilance to novelty, sensitivity to approach-withdrawal cues and social reticence in childhood, is associated with risk for anxiety in adolescence. Independent studies link reward hyper-responsivity to BI, adolescent anxiety and dopamine gene variants. This exploratory study extends these observations by examining the impact of DRD4 genotype and reward hyper-responsivity on the BI-anxiety link. Adolescents (N = 78) completed a monetary incentive delay task in the fMRI environment. Participants were characterized based on a continuous score of BI and the 7-repeat allele (7R+) of the DRD4 functional polymorphism. Parent-report and self-report measures of anxiety were also collected. Across the entire sample, striatal activation increased systematically with increases in the magnitude of anticipated monetary gains and losses. DRD4 status moderated the relation between BI and activation in the caudate nucleus. Childhood BI was associated with parent report of adolescent anxiety among 7R+ participants with elevated levels of striatal response to incentive cues. DRD4 genotype influenced the relations among neural response to incentives, early childhood BI and anxiety. The findings help refine our understanding of the role reward-related brain systems play in the emergence of anxiety in temperamentally at-risk individuals, building a foundation for future larger scale studies. 
Gene-environment interaction between DRD4 7-repeat VNTR and early child-care experiences predicts self-regulation abilities in prekindergarten.	Intervention studies indicate that children's early child-care experiences can be leveraged to foster their development of effective self-regulation skills. It is less clear whether typical child-care experiences play a similar role. In addition, evidence suggests that children with a common variant of the DRD4 gene (48-bp VNTR, 7-repeat) may be more sensitive to their experiences than those without this variant. Using data from the NICHD Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development, we considered the degree to which children's early child-care experiences-quantity, quality, and type-were associated with their attention and self-regulation abilities in prekindergarten, and, in particular, whether these relations were conditional on DRD4 genotype. GE interactions were evident across multiple neuropsychological and observational measures of children's attention and self-regulation abilities. Across most outcome measures, DRD4 7+ children spending fewer hours in child care showed more effective attention/self-regulation abilities. For those without a copy of the DRD4 7-repeat allele, such associations were typically null. The results for child-care quality and type indicated no interactions with genotype; the main-effect associations were somewhat inconsistent.
Parenting stress in mothers of very preterm infants -- influence of development, temperament and maternal depression.	To measure levels of parenting stress and postnatal depression in mothers of very preterm infants in comparison with mothers of infants born at term is the objective of this study. The study also aimed to explore factors associated with parenting stress in the mothers of the preterm infants.
Predicting depression with temperament and character in lung cancer patients.	Depression is highly prevalent in cancer patients. Variations in intensity and frequency of depression in cancer patients may be attributed, in part, to differences in personality dimensions. Our aim was to asses if dimensions of temperament and character could predict depression in lung cancer patients. Ninety newly diagnosed non-small cell lung cancer patients were assessed in the oncology unit with the Centre for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), pain subscale of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ) C30 and the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). Fifty out of 90 patients (55.6%) fulfilled the cut-off criteria for depression on the CES-D scale. Logistic regression performed to assess if depression was predicted by personality dimensions, revealed dimension of temperament Harm Avoidance and pain as significant predictors of depression. Depressive reactions are highly prevalent in lung cancer patients and related to patients' personality. These findings may be helpful in planning preventive, as well as psychoeducational and treatment programmes for newly diagnosed, and depression prone patients. 
Picky eating in preschool children: the predictive role of the child's temperament and mother's negative affectivity.	The objective of this study is to describe the development and examine predictors of picky eating from 1.5 to 4.5 years of age in a community sample of children.
Affective temperaments: unique constructs or dimensions of normal personality by another name?	Current models theorize that affective temperaments underlie the development and expression of mood psychopathology. Recent studies support the construct validity of affective temperaments in clinical and non-clinical samples. However, one concern is that affective temperaments may be describing characteristics that are better captured by models of normal personality. We conducted two studies examining: (a) the association of affective temperaments with domains and facets of normal personality, and (b) whether affective temperaments accounted for variance in mood symptoms and disorders, impairment, and daily-life experiences over-and-above variance accounted for by normal personality.
Affective temperaments and self-harm in adolescents: a cross-sectional study from a community sample.	Adolescent self-harm (SH) is a major health problem potentially associated with poor outcomes including reduced life expectancy and risk of completed suicide in adulthood. Several studies point to the role of possible constitutional vulnerabilities that could predispose to this behavior. This study sets out to assess the relationship between SH and affective temperaments (AT) in adolescents.
Attachment, affective temperament, and personality disorders: a study of their relationships in psychiatric outpatients.	As the result of extensive translational and cross-disciplinary research, attachment theory is now a construct with significant neuropsychiatric traction. The correlation of attachment with other influential conceptual models (i.e. temperament and personality) is therefore of interest. Consequently, we explored how two attachment dimensions (attachment anxiety and attachment avoidance) correlated with measures of temperament and personality in 357 psychiatric outpatients.
Confirmatory factor analysis and measurement invariance by gender, age and levels of psychological distress of the short TEMPS-A.	The Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego - Autoquestionnaire (TEMPS-A) is a widely used self-reported tool aimed at measuring the affective temperaments that define the bipolar spectrum, with cyclothymic, depressive, irritable, hyperthymic, and anxious subscales. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was rarely used to confirm the expected five-factor model. Measurement invariance was never tested.
Risks associated with gender differences in bipolar I disorder.	Previous studies have demonstrated that bipolar patients may differ in several features according to gender, but a number of the differences found remain controversial.
The burden of cyclothymia on alcohol dependence.	The relationship between cyclothymic temperament and alcoholism remains insufficiently explored.
Temperament and personality disorders as modifiers of depression]	The connection of temperament with depression is manifested especially as an accentuated feature of avoidance of problems. Personality disorders lead to aberrant ways to make observations of oneself and other people, to control feelings and get along with other people. A personality disorder significantly worsens the prognosis of depression so that compared with mere depression, recovery is slower and recurrence more likely. We discuss the connection of adulthood temperament features, personality and personality disorders with depression.
Biased processing of neutral facial expressions is associated with depressive symptoms and suicide ideation in individuals at risk for major depression due to affective temperaments.	To elucidate whether abnormal facial emotion processing represents a vulnerability factor for major depression, some studies have explored deficits in emotion processing in individuals at familial risk for depression. Nevertheless, these studies have provided mixed results. However, no studies on facial emotion processing have been conducted in at-risk samples with early or attenuated signs of depression, such as individuals with affective temperaments who are characterized by subclinical depressive moods, cognitions, and behaviors that resemble those that occur in patients with major depression.
Predictors of suicide in patients with conversion disorder.	Previous studies have shown that the ratio of suicide attempts is between 19.6 and 34.2% in patients with conversion disorder (CD), yet few studies have addressed this issue. The present study compared demographic and clinical variables and predictors of suicide attempts in patients with CD.
The impact of personality on quality of life and disease activity in patients with Behcet's disease: a pilot study.	The aim of this study was to examine the personality characteristics of patients with Behcet's Disease (BD) using the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) compared with healthy control subjects and to investigate the relationship between the temperament and character properties and quality of life, disease activity, depression and anxiety in Behcet's patients.
Meta-cognitive beliefs as a mediator for the relationship between Cloninger's temperament and character dimensions and depressive and anxiety symptoms among healthy subjects.	Previous studies suggest that temperament and character may impact depression and anxiety through dysfunctional cognition. This study targets the mediating role of meta-cognitive beliefs in the relationship between Cloninger's temperament and character dimensions and symptoms of depression and anxiety.
Early-age clinical and developmental features associated to Substance Use Disorders in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder in Adults.	The main objective was to explore early-age conditions associated to Substance Use Disorders (SUD) in adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD); secondly, to determine which of those conditions are specific to ADHD subjects; and finally, to compare ADHD and non-ADHD subjects in terms of SUD lifetime prevalence and professional, social and personal adjustment.
Affective temperament and attachment in adulthood in patients with Bipolar Disorder and Cyclothymia.	To examine attachment and affective temperament in patients who have been diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder and to investigate possible differences in both variables among Bipolar I Disorder (BD-I), Bipolar II Disorder (BD-II), and cyclothymic patients.
Temperament, personality, and quality of life in pediatric cancer patients.	The developmental psychology literature shows that children with higher levels of effortful control (EC) and ego-resilience (ER) display greater social competence and better emotional adjustment. This study examined whether these dispositional attributes contribute to positive quality of life (QOL) in pediatric cancer patients.
Exploring dimensionality of effortful control using hot and cool tasks in a sample of preschool children.	Effortful control (EC) is an important developmental construct associated with academic performance, socioemotional growth, and psychopathology. EC, defined as the ability to inhibit or delay a prepotent response typically in favor of a subdominant response, undergoes rapid development during children's preschool years. Research involving EC in preschool children can be aided by ensuring that the measured model of EC matches the latent structure of EC. Extant research indicates that EC may be multidimensional, consisting of hot (affectively salient) and cool (affectively neutral) dimensions. However, there are several untested assumptions regarding the defining features of hot EC. Confirmatory factor analysis was used in a sample of 281 preschool children (Mage=55.92months, SD=4.16; 46.6% male and 53.4% female) to compare a multidimensional model composed of hot and cool EC factors with a unidimensional model. Hot tasks were created by adding affective salience to cool tasks so that hot and cool tasks varied only by this aspect of the tasks. Tasks measuring EC were best described by a single factor and not distinct hot and cool factors, indicating that affective salience alone does not differentiate between hot and cool EC. EC shared gender-invariant associations with academic skills and externalizing behavior problems. 
Is compulsive buying related to materialism, depression or temperament? Findings from a sample of treatment-seeking patients with CB.	The aim of the present work was to examine the influence of reactive and regulatory temperament on compulsive buying (CB) in a sample of 102 patients (79 women, 23 men) with clinical CB. All participants answered the Compulsive Buying Scale (CBS), the Behavioral Inhibition System and Behavioral Activation System Scales (BIS/BAS), and the Effortful Control subscale (ATQ-EC) of the Adult Temperament Questionnaire-Short Form. Based on previous studies demonstrating that depression and materialism are linked with CB, in addition, the Patient Health Questionnaire depression scale (PHQ-9) and the Materialistic Values Scale (MVS) were administered. CBS scores were significantly correlated with the MVS, PHQ-9, and BAS scores. The findings of the hierarchical regression analysis, however, indicated that in the present sample of treatment-seeking patients the only significant association was found between CB and depression. The results highlight the prominent role of depression in CB. There is a need for longitudinal studies in order to answer the question whether depression is the cause or the consequence of CB. 
Positive and negative expressions of shyness in toddlers: are they related to anxiety in the same way?	Shyness has generally been investigated as a negative and unpleasant emotional state, strongly related to social anxiety and loneliness. However, recent evidence has suggested that shyness may have a positive and socially adaptive form. We examined whether the positive expression of shyness differs from the negative expression of shyness during toddlerhood, and whether a negative relation to anxiety exists. Participants were 30-month-old children (N=102; 56 girls) who were asked to mimic animal sounds with a novel person (performance) and then to watch their performance (self-watching). Their expression of pleasure (positive reactions) and distress (negative reactions), as well as their positive and negative expressions of shyness, were coded. Children's temperamental level of shyness, sociability, and anxiety were measured with parent-reported questionnaires. Toddlers produced more positive and negative displays of shyness in the performance task than in the self-watching task. Children's positive expression of shyness was associated with lower parent-reported anxiety and higher sociability. Negative reactions, but not negative shyness, were related to children's higher anxiety levels and lower sociability. Multiple linear regression analyses confirmed a negative predictive role of the positive expression of shyness on anxiety. These results suggest that the positive expression of shyness can regulate early anxiety symptoms and already serves a social function in interpersonal interactions in early childhood.
Emerging effortful control in infancy and toddlerhood and maternal support: A child driven or parent driven model?	This study examined the association between children's temperamental characteristics of rudimentary effortful control (EC) and mothers' supportive reactions to their children's negative emotions in infancy and toddler period. One hundred and fifty eight (78 girls) Taiwanese children's EC was assessed at 12 and 24 months with mothers' report on the very short-form scales of Infant Behavior Questionnaire (IBQ) and Early Childhood Behavior Questionnaire (ECBQ) respectively. The mothers also completed questionnaires to assess their comforting behaviors at 12 months and both comforting and cognitive assistance to their children's expression of negative emotions when the child was 24 months old. A structural model was used to examine within- and across-time relations between children's EC and the maternal support. The results showed continuity of EC related temperament from infancy to toddlerhood and the 12-month rudimentary EC positively predicted mothers' comforting and cognitive assistance at 24 months, suggesting that mothers modulate their use of support in accordance with their prior knowledge of their children's regulatory capacities. The results indicated an influence of infants' temperament on adult behaviors, supporting potential evocative child effects on mothers' emotion coaching behaviors.
The relationship between impulsivity and lipid levels in bipolar patients: does temperament explain it?	The aim of this study was to investigate whether there was a relationship between impulsivity and lipid levels in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) and to examine the correlation of impulsivity and lipid levels with temperament subtypes.
Is the relationship between affective temperament and resilience different in depression cases with and without childhood trauma?	The aim of this study was to investigate if the relationship between affective temperament and resilience in major depression is different in cases with and without childhood trauma.
Standardization of the TEMPS-A in the Greek general population.	The current study evaluates the reliability and factor-structure replicability of the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego Autoquestionnaire (TEMPS-A) in its Greek Version.
The influence of childhood abuse, adult stressful life events and temperaments on depressive symptoms in the nonclinical general adult population.	Previous studies have shown the interaction between heredity and childhood stress or life events on the pathogenesis of major depression. We hypothesized that childhood abuse, affective temperaments, and adult stressful life events interact and influence depressive symptoms in the general adult population and tested this hypothesis in this study.
Temperament and character traits predict future burden of depression.	Personality traits are associated with depressive symptoms and psychiatric disorders. Evidence for their value in predicting accumulation of future dysphoric episodes or clinical depression in long-term follow-up is limited, however.
Child temperament and parental depression predict cortisol reactivity to stress in middle childhood.	Children's cortisol reactivity to stress is an important mediator of depression risk, making the search for predictors of such reactivity an important goal for psychopathologists. Multiple studies have linked maternal depression and childhood behavioral inhibition (BI) independently to child cortisol reactivity, yet few have tested multivariate models of these risks. Further, paternal depression and other child temperament traits, such as positive emotionality (PE), have been largely ignored despite their potential relevance. We therefore examined longitudinal associations between child fear/BI and PE and parental depression, and children's cortisol stress reactivity, in 205 7-year-olds. Paternal depression and child fear/BI predicted greater cortisol stress reactivity at a follow-up of 164 9-year-olds, and maternal depression and child PE interacted to predict children's cortisol reactivity, such that higher child PE predicted lower cortisol reactivity in the context of maternal depression. Results highlight the importance of both parents' depression, as well as multiple facets of child temperament, in developing more comprehensive models of childhood cortisol reactivity to stress.
Children's memory and suggestibility about a distressing event: the role of children's and parents' attachment.	Our goal was to identify individual difference predictors of children's memory and suggestibility for distressing personally experienced events. Specifically, we examined children's and parents' attachment orientations and children's observable levels of distress, as well as other individual difference factors, as predictors of children's memory and suggestibility. Children (N=91) aged 3 to 6years were interviewed about inoculations received at medical clinics. For children whose parents scored as more avoidant, higher distress levels during the inoculations predicted less accuracy, whereas for children whose parents scored as less avoidant, higher distress levels predicted greater accuracy. Children with more rather than less positive representations of parents and older rather than younger children answered memory questions more accurately. Two children provided false reports of child sexual abuse. Implications for theory, research, and practice are discussed. 
Pathological gambling and addiction to cannabis: common psychosocial profile?]	Addiction can involve substances (heroin, cannabis, cocaine) or be characterised by behaviour (pathological gambling, addiction to sport, etc.). The question is to establish whether or not there is a specific personality profile (character, temperament) and emotional functioning (anxiety, depression, alexithymia) in subjects presenting addictive behaviour with and without substance use. To find some answers, a team from Sainte-Marguerite General Hospital in Marseille carried out a study comparing a group of cannabis addicts and a group of pathological gamblers.
Applying the ICF-CY framework to examine biological and environmental factors in early childhood development.	Previous cohort studies for the general pediatric population had a limited focus on either environmental or biological influences, or a specific theoretical framework. The child's development, however, is a composite of physical, mental, social, environmental, and personal factors. The framework of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health-Children and Youth Version (ICF-CY) provides a comprehensive model for investigating the influential factors of child development within a biopsychosocial perspective.
The effects of mental state on assessment of bipolar temperament.	Although the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego-auto questionnaire (TEMPS-A) was designed to identify temperaments which derive from traits but not states, there is a possibility that TEMPS-A scores might be affected by mental state in non-clinical populations. For the purpose of clarifying the effects of mental state on TEMPS-A scores, it is worthwhile to examine associations of the full version of the TEMPS-A with various depressive scales and, if possible, mania rating scales.
Association of affective temperaments measured by TEMPS-a with cognitive deficits in patients with bipolar disorder.	Affective temperaments such as cyclothymia, which may be the fundamental substrates for bipolar disorder and bipolar II in particular, have been reported to be associated with abnormalities in the regions that are related to cognitive deficits in bipolar disorder. However, few studies have examined the effects of affective temperaments on neuropsychological performance in individuals with bipolar disorder.
Personality disorders among patients with panic disorder and individuals with high anxiety sensitivity.	No studies have been found that compared the psychopathology features, including personality disorders, of Panic Disorder (PD) and Panic Disorder with Agoraphobia (PDA), and a nonclinical sample with anxiety vulnerability.
Behavioural, psychological, and temperamental predictors of risk suicide trend after brief psychodynamic psychotherapy.	Evidence has shown that psychotherapy is effective for depression, whereas the outcome for suicide risk is unclear.
Infants of postpartum depressed mothers: temperament and cognitive status.	This study examined the association of postpartum depression with specific infant characteristics. Twenty-five diagnosed depressed and 25 nondepressed mothers and their 2-month-old infants participated in the study. The mothers completed measures of infant temperament and difficulty associated with infant care, and the infants were assessed using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development. Group comparisons indicated that, compared with the infants of the nondepressed mothers, the infants of the depressed women were less competent cognitively and expressed more negative emotions during the testing. The depressed mothers perceived their infants as more difficult to care for and more bothersome than did the nondepressed mothers, but did not attribute these difficulties to the temperament of their infants. These findings suggest that postpartum depression is associated with an identifiable pattern of infant behavior that may exacerbate depressed women's mood.
Children's behavioral inhibition over age and across situations: genetic similarity for a trait during change.	Ratings of behaviors pertaining to inhibition were observed for 130 twins participating in a longitudinal study. Ratings were available for four ages (12, 18, 24, and 30 months) and from three sources at each age: direct observations obtained in a laboratory setting, direct observations obtained in conjunction with infant mental testing, and a temperament measure from a questionnaire completed by parents. For the individual twins, the age-to-age correlations were in the moderate range (.26 to .64). The situation-to-situation correlations were generally in the same range (.17 to .64). When the twins were recombined into twin pairs, within-pair (intraclass) correlations indicated that monozygotic (MZ) twins were more concordant than dizygotic (DZ) twins for each of the behaviors at each of the ages. Also, the MZ twins were more concordant for the direction and degree of behavioral change from age to age or from situation to situation. These data provide additional evidence for the biological influence on behavioral inhibition, a characteristic that has been studied in temperament and personality research. The results suggest that the trait of behavioral inhibition and a change in the trait are genetically conditioned. In addition, it is suggested that the concept of trait be expanded to include the person-centered biological regulation of change.
Feeding and temperament as determinants of early infant crying/fussing behavior.	In the first 3 months of life, crying and fussing in normal infants tend to increase until 6 weeks of age and decrease progressively thereafter. To determine whether feeding choice and early infant temperament are predictors of early crying, 374 healthy, full-term infants were observed prospectively from birth to 6 weeks of age. Feeding choice and sociodemographic characteristics were ascertained in the first few days postpartum. Parents completed a 17-item early infant temperament questionnaire at 2 weeks of age and a 24-hour behavior diary for 8 days at 6 weeks of age. Initially breast-fed infants cried and fussed more frequently throughout 24 hours compared with those who were formula fed, and increased frequency and duration of crying and fussing were predicted by "more difficult" temperament. Furthermore, a different pattern of crying and fussing within the day was found for infants who were changed from breast- to formula feeding. However, according to stepwise multiple regression models, daily duration of crying/fussing was significantly predicted only by the temperament score (but not initial feeding choice), which accounted for 7% of the variance. Frequency of crying/fussing were predicted only by socioeconomic status, temperament, and feeding frequency, which accounted for 12% of the variance. Breast- or formula feeding at 6 weeks of age was independently associated with crying/fussing only during the evening. It was concluded that early infant temperament predisposes to early crying and fussing but is of limited use as a clinical predictor. Later crying/fussing behavior is not predicted by initial feeding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Down's syndrome and toddler temperament.	The temperament profiles of infants and toddlers with Down's syndrome were compared with those of a non-handicapped, age reference group. The comparison revealed that the children with Down's syndrome were generally similar to the non-handicapped group in terms of temperament characteristics. The results provide support for examining the temperament of children with Down's syndrome as a function of chronological rather than developmental age. The significance of documenting the diversity of behavioural styles among toddlers with Down's syndrome in evaluation and intervention is discussed.
Age changes, cohort differences, and cultural change on the Guilford-Zimmerman Temperament Survey.	The relation between adult age and temperament was investigated using the Guilford-Zimmerman Temperament Survey. Between the years 1958 and 1974, the GZTS was administered to 915 men from 17 to 98 years of age in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study. Repeated measures were obtained for 336 men approximately 7 years after initial testing. Each GZTS scale was analyzed cross-sectionally and longitudinally. Sequential analyses of independent samples were also carried out in an attempt to separate the effects of maturation from those of generational and cultural change. Results showed that Masculinity declined at all ages, but General Activity declined only after age 50. Thoughtfulness and Personal Relations showed cultural declines during the time period studied, whereas Friendliness showed a long-term cultural decline. Later-born cohorts were lower in Restraint and higher in Ascendance than early-born cohorts.
Temperament characteristics of toddlers born prematurely.	An examination was made of the hypothesis that prematurity is associated with difficult temperament outcome in childhood. Temperament ratings for 40 preterm, very low birthweight 3-year-olds were compared with those of a matched, term control group. Results suggested that while toddlers born prematurely were rated as less rhythmic than their term counterparts, no differences existed between the groups with respect to the diagnostic clusters 'easy', 'difficult', and 'slow to warm up'. It was concluded that from a global temperament standpoint, our high-risk preterm 3-year-olds were not perceived as more temperamentally difficult than term controls. The suggestion was offered that researchers seeking to broaden the scope of outcome assessment of high-risk children turn to more direct measures of behaviour associated with temperament.
Circulating testosterone levels and aggression in adolescent males: a causal analysis.	Empirical analyses conducted within a causal-analytic framework (path analysis) on a sample of normal adolescent human males suggested that circulating levels of testosterone in the blood had a direct causal influence on provoked aggressive behavior (self-reports): A high level of testosterone led to an increased readiness to respond vigorously and assertively to provocations and threats. Testosterone also had an indirect and weaker affect on another aggression dimension: High levels of testosterone made the boys more impatient and irritable, which in turn increased their propensity to engage in aggressive-destructive behavior. Two somewhat parallel dimensions of behavior, intermale and irritable aggression, have been identified in animal research to be under testosterone control.
Temperament in infancy: stability, change, and correlates.	The present study investigated whether temperament categories and diagnoses of the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire (RITQ) remain stable during infancy. Additionally, the relationships between RITQ ratings and scores on the Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale and the Bayley Scales of Infant Development were evaluated. The sample included 79 nonrisk infants. The results indicate that most categories of temperament, as well as diagnostic clusters, remain stable from 4 to 8 months of life. The majority of NBAS dimensions and Bayley mental scores were not significantly associated with temperament ratings. The antecedents of ratings of infants' difficultness were similarly unidentified by mothers' perceptions of their infant's behavior.
Sexual activity and temperament in Polish transsexuals.	Two groups of 23 female-to-male and 14 male-to-female transsexuals were compared to a representative sample of Polish controls along following dimensions: (i) temperamental features including reactivity and mobility of nervous processes, as measured by Strelau's Temperament Inventory; and (ii) patterns of sexual activity, measured with Dulko's Questionnaire for Measurement of Transsexualism. Transsexuals were found to resemble respective controls on temperamental dimensions according to their sense of gender identity and not their somatic sex. Male-to-female transsexuals were more similar to control females than to control males and the reverse was true for female-to-male subjects. With respect to forms of sexual activity, transsexuals, particularly the female-to-male, were found to have a relatively versatile erotic life. Both groups experienced more dreams with erotic content than respective controls. However, they also manifested fewer successes at satisfying their erotic needs.
Temperament of preterm infants: its relationship to perinatal factors and one-year outcome.	We studied preterm infants to determine whether they have more difficult temperaments than term infants, and whether temperament is related to perinatal factors and to later performance on infants tests. Parents of 98 preterm and 89 full-term infants completed the Toddler Temperament Scale (TTS) when their children were 12 months post-term. Ninety-five of the 98 preterm infants also received the Bayley Scales of infant Development and were diagnosed as to the presence and severity of cerebral palsy (CP) at one year post-term. Preterm and full-term infants did not differ significantly on overall temperament type or on any of nine temperament dimensions. Degree of respiratory distress was correlated significantly with premature infants' receiving scores significantly different from normal on some temperament dimensions. Poorer performance on the Bayley Mental Scales was significantly associated with temperament characteristics of lower adaptability, lower persistence, and more withdrawal from new stimulation.
Markers for vulnerability to psychopathology: temperament traits associated with platelet MAO activity.	The functional linkage between platelet MAO activity and psychopathology was explored by analyzing temperamental correlates in 40 male subjects by means of scales from the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ), the Zuckerman Sensation Seeking Inventory, and the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Linear correlations were found with two sensation seeking scales, replicating earlier findings. However, nonlinear correlations predominated. Subjects with intermediate platelet MAO activity had higher scores in conformity scales and lower scores in anxiety and hostility scales than low and high MAO subgroups. Low MAO subjects showed a pattern of higher scores in KSP Impulsiveness, EPQ Neuroticism, and KSP Somatic Anxiety and Irritability and lower scores in KSP Socialization, in line with personality profiles found in alcoholics, psychopaths, and suicide attempters who also tend to have low platelet MAO activity. High MAO subjects scored lower in sensation seeking and conformity scales and higher in KSP Psychasthenia, Muscular Tension and Suspicion scales, consistent with clinical links between high platelet MAO activity and anxiety and paranoia.
Infant temperament and the quality of the childrearing environment.	The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between infant temperament and the quality of the childrearing environment by examining (a) maternal ratings of infant's behavior utilizing questionnaire category scores, (b) maternal impressions of infant's behavior, (c) the relationship of maternal ratings of infant's behavior to the quality of the childrearing environment, and (d) the relationship of maternal impressions of infant's behavior to the quality of the childrearing environment. Mothers of 20 normal, full-term infants with a mean age of 5.2 months were involved in the study. During a home visit, the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire (RITQ) and the Home Observational Measurement Evaluation Inventory (HOME) were completed. Pearson Product Moment Correlation, chi-square, and Z tests were used to analyze the data. The findings of the study suggested no significant difference in the quality of the childrearing environment with difficult or easy temperament infants as measured by the questionnaire category scores. There was a significant positive relationship between infants perceived as "easier-than-average" on the maternal impression responses and maternal organization and stimulation as measured by the HOME.
Adolescent mothers' prenatal fantasies and working models of their infants.	Parents' perceptions of their children have long fascinated clinicians. During early infancy, parental perceptions are particularly interesting, largely because of the ambiguity of infant behavior and the possibility that there might be meaningful biases in parental interpretations of their infants' behaviors. In order to explore the early development of parental perceptions, the study described in this paper compared the prenatal and postnatal perceptions of adolescent mothers about specific characteristics and behaviors of their infants. Mothers' internal mental representations or "working models" of their infants are a fruitful area for further research.
The impact of temperament in a school setting: an epidemiological study.	The authors present the results of an epidemiological study on a large non-clinical population-based sample of French speaking seven year-old children (N = 596) whose aim was to verify if a relation exists between temperament and outward-type or inward-type behavior problems in school. The Thomas and Chess' Parent Temperament Questionnaire, filled out twice by the parents over a four-week interval, was used to determine temperament. The Conners Teacher Questionnaire, filled out twice by the teachers over a four-week interval, was used to determine behavior problems in school. Five points emerge from this study. First, "difficult" temperament 'per se' is not associated either with outward-type or inward-type behavior problems in school. Second, a temperamental pattern of high activity and high approach with new stimuli predisposes boys to present outward-type behavior problems in school. Third, the temperamental traits of low adaptability or withdrawal with new stimuli predisposes girls to inward-type behavior problems in school. Fourth, the study demonstrates the importance of verifying if the associations between temperament and behavior problems are stable since, in the comparisons between results of the test with those of the retest, several of the associations found in one occasion failed to be replicated at the other. Fifth, the different influences of temperament according to sex emphasize the need to study boys and girls separately. Future studies should take into account interactions between parents/teachers and child temperament since these sex-related different influences of temperament could be related to the sex-related different attitudes of caretakers.
Behavioural differences of school-age children who were small-for-dates babies.	Twenty-one children aged between five and nine years who were small for gestational age (SFD) at birth and whose intra-uterine head growth was shown by ultrasonography to be slowing before 35 weeks were observed in a special room, using video-cameras. Their behaviour was compared with that of 21 matched control children who had had normal birthweight. The children in the SFD group were quieter, more compliant and less active than the control group, and their play behaviour suggested that they were less advanced developmentally. The behaviour of the mothers of the SFD group showed that they were aware of their child's problems and tried to compensate for it by teaching the child while they were waiting for the observational session to start, by sitting closer to the child during a drawing test, and by using more words to explain it.
Body image stereotypes: a developmental comparison.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that temperament judgments associated with different body types were dependent upon sex and age of the respondents. A total of 500 participants, 249 females and 251 males ranging from 6 to 60 years of age, were sampled. Participants were drawn from various civic, educational, institutional, and residential groups in a Southern cosmopolitan city. A paper-pencil instrument consisted of three body silhouettes (representing an ectomorph, mesomorph, and endomorph) and 40 temperament/behavior descriptors. The respondents matched each descriptor with one of the three body types. The results indicated that the descriptors were differentially associated with body types according to age groups but not by sex. The mesomorph was overwhelmingly and consistently viewed as the most positive of the three body types, but was rated somewhat more negatively as the age of the group increased. Participants of ages 6 through 25 rated the endomorph more negatively than the ectomorph, while those of ages 26-40 rates them equally. In contrast, participants over 40 years of age viewed the ectomorph more negatively than the endomorph.
Comparison of mothers' and fathers' temperament ratings of referred and nonreferred preschool children.	Examined the ratings of mothers and fathers of two groups of preschool children on the Parent Temperament Questionnaire-Revised. One group of preschoolers had been referred for psychological evaluation by parents because they were difficult to manage at home or at school (N = 48); the other group (N = 48) never had been referred for psychological services. The referred and nonreferred groups were found to differ significantly in ratings of six temperament variables. Mothers' and fathers' ratings for the nonreferred group were significantly correlated, while for the referred group they were generally not significantly correlated.
Personality changes in the aged. A longitudinal study with the MNT-scale.	The three personality dimensions validity, solidity and stability according to Sjbring were measured by means of the MNT scales in representative samples of 70-year-old men and women in Gothenburg, Sweden. They were followed up when 75 and 79. A longitudinal study was performed with regard to changes in means, standard deviations and sex differences. The means at 70 of the surviving subjects were compared with those of subjects who had died before the age of 79. The personality dimensions were, on the whole, unchanged between 70 and 79 except for a small increase in stability in men, implying a decrease in personal involvement, and a small decrease in validity in women implying lower levels of mental energy. There was also a decrease in solidity in men between 75 and 79 implying an increased tendency to dissociation. Variability and sex differences did not change. Men with low validity at 70 had an increased mortality. Cross-sectional studies would have given misleading results of the personality development in these age groups.
Attachment to a special object at the age of three years: behavior and temperament characteristics.	This study attempts to estimate the prevalence rate of attachment to a special object in a total population sample of three-year-olds drawn from an ongoing epidemiologic survey. The significance of object attachment at age three for the development of behavioral disturbance is assessed through two separate measures. Data from parental reports of temperament characteristics and observational codings of play sessions in the home setting are also presented. While the authors conclude that attachment to a special object is not related to behavioral disturbance, certain temperamental and play behavior characteristics were found to be significant.
Twelve blood markers and measures of temperament.	This project tested the association of 12 blood marker systems with the Eysenck Extraversion-Introversion/Neuroticism forms and the Buss-Plomin Temperament forms. The sample was about 400 males and 470 females who were given medical examinations during the Tecumseh Community Health Study (Michigan). ANOVA and Scheffe tests were used to test for significant differences; personality traits were adjusted for age. The Lewis red blood cell phenotypes were significantly associated with Anger and Impulsivity for males and Sensation-seeking (a subscale of Impulsivity) for females. It is suggested that these temperament factors merit further exploration.
The cries of infants of differing levels of perceived temperamental difficultness: acoustic properties and effects on listeners.	The meaning of mother perceptions of their infants' temperamental difficultness was explored in 3 ways. (1) Subjective ratings were elicited from unrelated mothers of infants (N = 45) who listened to the cries of 4-6-month-old infants perceived by their own mothers as having difficult, average, or easy temperament (N = 4 per category). Subjects rated the difficult- and average-group cries as more irritating and spoiled sounding than the easy-group cries, and more likely to be due to emotional or psychological causes. However, there were no differences in the subjects' hypothetical interventions. (2) The meaning of the difficultness designations was also tested by measuring the acoustic properties of the cries of the 12 infants using sound spectrographs. The clearest difference was that the more difficult groups showed increased amounts of pausing within and between cry sounds, which is interpreted as adding a sense of urgent demand to the cry communication. (3) The study also considered the effects of a variety of listener background, personality, and attitude variables. The listener's perception of the difficultness of her own 4-6-month, firstborn infant was not related to ratings of the cries, but her prior experience with infants and level of self-described empathy were related to the ratings. For example, the more experienced the listener, the less the easy and average infants' cries were rated as spoiled, and the more the difficult infants' cries were seen as spoiled.
Relating infant temperament to learning disabilities.	The role of infant temperament in the development of learning disabilities was at issue. As infants, boys with severe learning disabilities were found to be (1) lower in activity level, (2) more irregular, (3) less approaching, and (4) more negative in mood than "normal" boys. Discussion centered around conceptualizing learning disabilities as the outcome of a developmental process. Thus patterns of early parent-infant interaction are established, based in part upon the infant's temperament, that may evolve into a learning disability.
Neonatal stress reactivity: predictions to later emotional temperament.	To investigate the relations among popular measures of neonatal stress and their link to subsequent temperament, 50 full-term newborns from a normal care nursery were examined responding to a heelstick blood draw. Baseline and heelstick measures of behavioral state, heart period, vagal tone, and salivary cortisol were obtained. Recovery measures of behavioral and cardiac activity were also analyzed. Mothers completed Rothbart's Infant Behavior Questionnaire when their infants reached 6 months of age. Baseline vagal tone predicted cortisol in response to the heelstick, suggesting that baseline vagal tone reflects the infants' ability to react to stressors. Greater reactivity to the heelstick (more crying, shorter heart periods, lower vagal tone, and higher cortisol) was associated with lower scores on "Distress-to-Limitations" temperament at 6 months. This finding was consistent with the expectation that the capacity to react strongly to an aversive stimulus would reflect better neurobehavioral organization in the newborn. Recovery measures of cardiac activity approximated and were correlated with baseline measures indicating the strong self-righting properties of the healthy newborn. Finally, vagal tone and salivary cortisol measures were not significantly related, suggesting the importance of assessing both systems in studies of the ontogeny of stress-temperament relations.
A developmental investigation of inattentiveness and hyperactivity.	The development of inattentiveness and hyperactivity in middle childhood was investigated using a prospective longitudinal approach. Endogenous and exogenous predictors measured in infancy and in early and middle childhood were examined independently and in combination. In early childhood, quality of caregiving more powerfully predicted distractibility, an early precursor of hyperactivity, than did early biological or temperament factors. Caregiving and contextual factors together with early distractibility significantly predicted hyperactivity in middle childhood. While environmental variables also predicted hyperactivity in later elementary years, these factors did not improve the prediction beyond the influence of hyperactivity in early elementary years. The findings support a developmental view of the origins and course of hyperactivity in childhood, that is, that the emergence and persistence of AD/HD symptoms depend on developmental history along with current circumstances.
Temperamental origins of child and adolescent behavior problems: from age three to age fifteen.	We assessed relations between early temperament and behavior problems across 12 years in an unselected sample of over 800 children. Temperament measures were drawn from behavior ratings made by examiners who observed children at ages 3, 5, 7, and 9. Factor analyses revealed 3 dimensions at each age: Lack of Control, Approach, and Sluggishness. Temperament dimensions at ages 3 and 5 were correlated in theoretically coherent ways with behavior problems that were independently evaluated by parents and teachers at ages 9 and 11, and by parents at ages 13 and 15. Lack of Control was more strongly associated with later externalizing behavior problems than with internalizing problems; Approach was associated with fewer internalizing problems among boys; and Sluggishness was weakly associated with both anxiety and inattention, especially among girls. Lack of Control and Sluggishness were also associated with fewer adolescent competencies. These results suggest that early temperament may have predictive specificity for the development of later psychopathology.
Field and observer modes of remembering.	Nigro and Neisser (1983) contrasted two ways of remembering personal experiences: the rememberer may 'see' the event from his or her perspective as in normal perception, or 'see' the self engaged in the event as an observer would. Several factors contribute to the determination of perspective, but Nigro and Neisser also reported that many subjects claimed they could change to another perspective at will. We sampled personal memories from several life periods and assessed ability to change the initially reported perspective. Changing was easier for recent or vividly recalled events, harder for older and less vividly recalled events. Memory perspectives may differ in other aspects than their imagery. A second study was conducted to determine whether affective experience is altered when perspectives are changed. The affect experienced decreased when shifting from a field to an observer perspective, but did not change with the converse shift. These studies provide further evidence that remembering is more than retrieval. The information that enters awareness is determined by the information sources in memory and the organisational scheme adopted for recollection.
Relationship between patterns of infant temperament, child behavior ratings, and interactions during toddlerhood.	This longitudinal study examined the relationship of temperament ratings during infancy, subsequent child behavior problems, and mother-child interaction. The authors considered the effect of change in mothers' perceptions of their infants' temperament during infancy (e.g., from easy to difficult or from difficult to easy) on subsequent developmental outcomes. Data from a predominantly middle-class Caucasian sample of 49 mother-child dyads are presented here. Findings revealed that children with discontinuities in 4 and 8-month ratings on the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire (e.g, Easy/Difficult or Difficult/Easy) had significantly higher problem and intensity scores on the Eyberg Child Behavior Inventory than those with stable temperament ratings (Carey & McDevitt, 1978a). No significant differences were found in maternal behaviors between mothers of children rated easy or difficult at 4 or 8 months. These results suggest that continuity of infant temperament ratings is an important factor for consideration in subsequent maternal identification of toddler behavior problems, and that difficult temperament alone may not predict such problems.
Temperament and sleeping patterns in colicky infants during the first year of life.	A prospective study of 59 colicky infants and 58 age-matched controls assessed infants' temperament at the ages of 3 and 12 months and their sleeping patterns at the ages of 8 and 12 months. At age 3 months, the mothers regarded the colicky infants as more intense in their reactions, less persistent, more distractible, and more negative in their mood. At age 12 months, mothers regarded 23% of the colicky infants to be more difficult than average compared to 5% of controls. The mothers regarded their colicky infants as more active and less persistent. However, the Toddler Temperament Scale showed no difference between the groups in any area of temperament. No significant difference was found between the two groups in sleeping patterns. The discrepancy between infants' actual temperament and mothers' general perception of temperament may reflect the influence of infantile colic on the mother-infant relationship.
Temperament: a salient correlate of risk factors for alcohol and drug abuse.	A sample of sons of substance abusing (SA+; n = 39) and normal fathers (SA-; n = 45) were studied to determine the relative contribution of temperament characteristics and paternal lifetime history of substance abuse as factors that are putatively linked to risk for substance abuse. Cluster analyses of sons' and fathers' scores on the Revised Dimensions of Temperament Survey (DOTS-R) yielded 'difficult' temperament and normative temperament clusters. In a comparison of risk liability associated with SA+/SA- status versus temperament cluster membership, boys in the difficult temperament cluster were differentiated from boys in the normative temperament cluster on cognitive, behavior, family and peer affiliation risk factors. In subsequent logistic regression analyses, 85% of sons in the difficult temperament cluster and 72% of sons in the normative temperament cluster were correctly classified by their risk factor scores.
Relationships of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire to mood and personality measures for depressed patients.	The relationships of Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire dimensions to mood and to the Eysenck personality dimensions and Barratt's impulsivity scores are presented. Some aspects of temperament appear to be mood related, but most are not. Correlations with the other personality measures were largely as predicted. However, Exploratory Excitability correlated negatively with Harm Avoidance rather than with Novelty Seeking. Factor analysis supported this relationship. Reward Dependence was weakly represented by the other personality measures and may be tapping unique behaviours.
Psychological theories on the vulnerability to depression]	The problem of psychological vulnerability refers back to the dysymetric interactions between biological, life-event and personality factors. The term "personality" must be defined in terms of three factors: differential characteristics of the primary traits, "temperament" from the purely biological stand-point, and psychodynamic organization. The following discussion will deal solely with notions of temperament and psychodynamic organization. The renewed interest in the notion of temperament for the constitution of depression has been evoked in a number of recent studies, and allows an integrative approach of the biological phenomena. From the stand-point of psychodynamic organization, we should be less concerned with a strictly etiological role than with the mechanisms involved: loss of the object, in the neurotic model (depressive neurosis?) absence of the object (severe narcissistic disorders). This psychodynamic clinical approach must also take into account the triggering or unmasking effects of the depressive state itself on the underlying personality structure.
Family dynamics and infant temperament in Danish families.	Transition to parenthood involves the fine balance of family dynamics which both affect, and are affected by, the infant's temperament. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in family dynamics over the transition to parenthood and the relationship of family dynamics to infant temperament. A sample of 99 families in Odense, Denmark, completed the Family Dynamics Measure in the third trimester of pregnancy and again when the infant was 8-9 months old. At this second time, the mothers also completed the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire. Overall we found small changes, although always in a negative direction, in family dynamics over this transition. The largest change was an increase in perceived role conflict reported by both mothers and fathers. Mothers reported more role conflict than fathers. Positive family dynamics were related to infant rhythmicity.
A longitudinal model of maternal self-efficacy, depression, and difficult temperament during toddlerhood.	The purpose of this study was to test a model of maternal self-efficacy during toddlerhood using a longitudinal sequential design. Participants were 126 mothers of 1-year olds (Cohort 1) and 126 mothers of 2-year olds (Cohort 2) who completed questionnaires measuring maternal self-efficacy, depression, and perceived difficult toddler temperament three times over 1 year. Data were analyzed using structural equation modeling and maximum likelihood estimation. Findings support a model whereby (a) the more depressed the mother feels, the more likely she is to rate her toddler's temperament as difficult, (b) the more difficult the child's temperament is perceived to be, the lower the mother's estimates of her parenting self-efficacy, (c) the lower the mother's self-efficacy, the greater her depression, and (d) the more depressed the mother feels at one point in time, the more likely she is to remain depressed 6 months later. Implications of the findings are discussed as they relate to self-efficacy theory and nursing intervention with parents of difficult toddlers.
Content analysis of parents' descriptions of their autistic, trisomy 21 or normal children]	As part of a study of the clinical evaluation of infantile autism, interviews of parents of autistic, Down's syndrome, or normal children were subjected to content analysis. Parental representations in the three groups were determined. Parents often (81%) described their autistic children as "nervous" and felt distressed by their perceived failure to understand their child (62%). These findings suggest working hypotheses in the fields of care and research.
In search of psychoanalytic technique: perspectives from on the couch and from behind the couch.	The author's experience as a patient in analysis with four different analysts is recounted. Similarities and differences in technique, especially with regard to overall analytic atmosphere, use of interpretation, reconstruction of childhood, dream interpretation, self-revelations of the analyst, and the way politics was discussed are compared. The author concludes that major differences in personality and temperament of the four analysts made a substantial difference in the experience of analysis. Finally, the author discusses whether such differences are indeed important, and in what sense we can speak of the place of analytic technique. Is it a body of teaching and practice that is aimed at minimizing the differences attributable to individual analysts' style and temperament, or is it a body of teaching and practice, still to be elaborated, that gives us a full and flexible account of how analysts actually function?
Temperament and major depression in 11 to 16 year olds.	Temperament (EAS teacher and parent questionnaire) and mental state (modified DISC-C interview with adolescent) was systematically assessed in 193 11 to 16 year olds (112 girls, 81 boys) screened for major depression in the community. Sex differences in the structure of temperament were noted from both parent and teacher reports. High (negative) emotionality alone was associated with major depression, particularly (but not exclusively) in girls.
The body type/temperament mismatch and self-actualization.	The Catell and Metzner (1993) finding of higher self-actualization among people with body type/temperament mismatch is important and could be viewed as support for a link of creativity with deviance. Also, there is an error in one of their statements, which is corrected here.
Individual differences in stimulus intensity modulation and its relationship to two styles of depression in older adults.	Research comparing depressive persons with and without manic symptoms shows striking parallels with differences between augmenters and reducers on the Kinesthetic Aftereffect (KAE) task (A. Petrie, 1967). Twenty-three community-dwelling older adults identified by the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (S. R. Hathaway & J. C. McKinley, 1951) as depressive without manic symptoms were compared with 24 older adults with manic symptoms on the KAE, the NEO Personality Inventory (NEO-PI; P. T. Costa & R. R. McCrae, 1985), and Strelau (J. Strelau, 1983) Temperament Inventory. As hypothesized, augmentation was related to depression without manic symptoms, and reduction was related to depression with manic symptoms. Stepwise discriminant analyses indicated that the KAE is a potent discriminator between the 2 types of depression. Three characteristics of Strelau's "strength of nervous system"--excitation, and inhibition and mobility--discriminate significantly between the 2 groups as well as NEO extraversion and conscientiousness. Results suggest that older depressive persons with and without manic symptoms may benefit from different therapeutic interventions.
Temperament in Williams syndrome.	In this study we evaluated the temperament characteristics of a group of 13 subjects with Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS) and compared the results to the findings in a control group of 13 individuals with the same degree of mental retardation of different etiology. On the different subscales of the Dutch adaptation of the Parent Temperament Questionnaire no statistically significant differences between the WBS and the control group were noted. An easier temperament was noted in the control group, and we also found greater intensity, less persistence and lower treshold in WBS subjects. The present findings indicate that the "specific" behavioural phenotype in WBS patients is apparently more related to mental retardation itself than to the underlying genetic defect. Further studies on a large group of WBS patients and mentally retarded control group are needed to confirm these findings.
Stress reactivity and attachment security.	Seventy-three 18-month-olds were tested in the Ainsworth Strange Situation. These children were a subset of 83 infants tested at 2, 4, 6, and 15 months during their well-baby examinations with inoculations. Salivary cortisol, behavioral distress, and maternal responsiveness measures obtained during these clinic visits were examined in relation to attachment classifications. In addition, parental report measures of the children's social fearfulness in the 2nd year of life were used to classify the children into high-fearful versus average- to low-fearful groups. In the 2nd year, the combination of high fearfulness and insecure versus secure attachment was associated with higher cortisol responses to both the clinic exam-inoculation situation and the Strange Situation. Thus, attachment security moderates the physiological consequences of fearful, inhibited temperament. Regarding the 2-, 4-, and 6-month data, later attachment security was related to greater maternal responsiveness and lower cortisol baselines. Neither cortisol nor behavioral reactivity to the inoculations predicted later attachment classifications. There was some suggestion, however, that at their 2-month checkup, infants who would later be classified as insecurely attached exhibited larger dissociations between the magnitude of their behavioral and hormonal response to the inoculations. Greater differences between internal (hormonal) and external (crying) responses were also negatively correlated with maternal responsiveness and positively correlated with pretest cortisol levels during these early months of life.
Shy girls and boys: a new look.	A new look at shyness in young children involves selecting for shyness, using criteria involving both natural and laboratory contexts, categorizing children (including a group between the two extremes), and including the sex of the child in analyses. Children of both sexes differed significantly across low, medium, and high shy groups, with negative mood, worries and fears, and problem behaviour in preschool being associated with high shyness. Although boys in general and high shy boys in particular had the highest problem behaviour scores in preschool (including acting out behaviour), maternal interactions with high shy boys were positive: significantly more positive than with boys who were high shy in natural settings but low shy in the laboratory, or with high shy girls. Of the girls, maternal style was most positive for the medium shy girls, who also received the highest relative frequency of positive maternal actions during a brief task-significantly higher than medium shy boys, as well as high shy girls.
Towards an understanding of defense style in terms of temperament and character.	The aim was to investigate the relationships between a model of personality based on the concept of defense mechanisms, as articulated by Vaillant, with the psychobiological model of personality, as developed by Cloninger. A total of 128 adults from 11 family pedigrees with at least two alcohol-dependent members completed the self-report Defense Style Questionnaire and the Temperament and Character Inventory. Immature defenses were largely explained by low character scores, while neurotic defenses were part temperament and part character. Cluster A, B and C defenses were related to low reward dependence, high novelty-seeking and high harm avoidance respectively. In a regression analysis, cluster B and C defenses were more related to low character scores than to temperament but, for cluster A defenses, temperament and character both contributed. The results suggest that it is possible to integrate an ego defense model of personality with a psychobiological model of personality, thereby enriching both approaches.
Newborn dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, minor physical anomalies, and infant temperament.	The authors examined newborn anomaly scores for 193 normal infants in relation to obstetrical history, newborn dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), and 5-month (N=185) and 1-year (N=123) infant behavior, determined by a questionnaire completed by their mothers. There was no significant relationship between anomaly score and obstetrical history or 5-month infant temperament; low significant correlations were found between newborn DBH and 1) infant irritability and unsociable response and 2) 1-year anomaly scores and reported activity levels. The authors discuss the possible importance of these findings.
Grandmother co-residence, parenting, and child development among low income, urban teen mothers.	To examine the relationships among grandmother co-residence, parenting, and early child development among low income, urban families with teen mothers whose children vary in growth (adequate versus failure to thrive [FTT]).
TCI temperamental scores in bulimia nervosa patients and normal women with and without diet experiences.	In order to distinguish the trigger and the factors maintaining bulimia nervosa (BN), TCI temperamental scores were compared among BN patients, normal controls without diet experiences (N-N), and normal controls with diet experiences (N-D). On the novelty-seeking (NS) scale, the BN patients scored significantly higher than the N-N subjects, but there was no significant difference between the BN patients and the N-D subjects, and the N-D subjects scored higher than the N-N subjects. These findings suggest that high NS scores are related to diet experiences rather than chronic bulimic symptoms.
Personality disorders and relationship to personality dimensions measured by the Temperament and Character Inventory in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.	The occurrence of personality disorders was investigated in 36 patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder by means of the SCID Screen questionnaire. In addition, the personality dimensions were explored by means of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). In total, 75% of the patients fulfilled the criteria for a personality disorder according to the SCID Screen questionnaire, mostly (55%) within cluster C. Several significant correlations were found between the separate personality disorders (PD) and subscales of the TCI, the most pronounced being between avoidant and obsessive-compulsive PD and novelty-seeking and self-directedness. Strong correlations were also found between self-directedness and paranoid and borderline PD. In multiple regressions where the presence of PD in clusters A, B and C, respectively, were used as dependent variables and where the separate subscales of the TCI were used as independent variables, the multiple R reached 0.68, 0.76 and 0.80 in clusters A, B and C, respectively. Thus 46-64% of the variance in the personality disorder clusters could be explained by the TCI subscales.
A prospective longitudinal study of attachment disorganization/disorientation.	The research explores the antecedents and consequences of attachment disorganization from a prospective longitudinal perspective. The relations of attachment disorganization/disorientation to endogenous (e.g., maternal medical history, infant temperament) and environmental (e.g., maternal caregiving quality, infant history of abuse) antecedents and to behavioral consequences from 24 months to 19 years are examined. For the 157 participants in the longitudinal study, attachment disorganization was correlated significantly with environmental antecedents (e.g., maternal relationship and risk status, caregiving quality, and infant history of maltreatment), but not with available endogenous antecedents. Infant history of attachment disorganization was correlated with consequent variables related to mother-child relationship quality at 24 and 42 months, child behavior problems in preschool, elementary school and high school, and psychopathology and dissociation in adolescence. Structural models suggest that disorganization may mediate the relations between early experience and later psychopathology and dissociation. The findings are considered within a developmental view of psychopathology, that is, pathology defined in terms of process, as a pattern of adaptation constructed by individuals in their environments.
Early child care and self-control, compliance, and problem behavior at twenty-four and thirty-six months. The NICHD Early Child Care Research Network.	To evaluate child-care effects on young children's self-control, compliance, and problem behavior, children enrolled in the NICHD Study of Early Child Care were tested and observed in the laboratory and in child care at 24 and 36 months, and mothers and caregivers completed questionnaires. Indicators of child-care quantity, quality, stability, type, and age of entry, along with measures of family background, mothering, and child characteristics obtained through the first 3 years of life were used to predict 2 and 3 year child functioning. Results revealed (1) mothering to be a stronger and more consistent predictor of child outcomes than child care; (2) little evidence that early, extensive, and continuous care was related to problematic child behavior, in contrast to results from earlier work; (3) that among the child-care predictors, child-care quality was the most consistent predictor of child functioning, although limited variance could be explained by any (or all) child-care variables; and (4) that virtually none of the anticipated interactions among child-care factors or between them and family or child measures proved significant.
Towards a genetics of anxious temperament: from mice to men.	An enduring question in the study of human personality is 'to what extent and how do genetic factors influence such personality constructs as "trait anxiety"?'. We selectively survey progress and obstacles in the genetic dissection of fear-like behavior, especially as it pertains to more constitutional forms of anxiety or anxious temperament. We emphasize the selection of phenotypic dimensions and the utility of 'temperament' and personality constructs as mediating variables for psychopathology. We summarize studies on the use of mouse models of 'anxious temperament' to map genetic loci, and briefly review recent genetic association studies of related phenotypes in humans utilizing candidate genes. We suggest that further progress in genetic research on 'trait anxiety' disorders may come from the following: (i) developing alternate constructs for investigating psychiatric illness focusing on dimensional scales, mediating variables and premorbid traits; (ii) examining 'at-risk' populations for protective genetic factors influencing 'resilience' or loci providing a reduced risk of a given trait or disorder; and (iii) utilizing lower animal models as a bridge to dissect the genetic factors contributing to related human phenotypes.
Toward a definition of generalized anxiety disorder as an anxious temperament type.	Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is defined as an uncontrollable disposition to worry about one's welfare and that of one's immediate kin. Associated manifestations include arousal, vigilance, tension, irritability, unrestful sleep and gastrointestinal distress. There is growing evidence for the lifelong nature of this condition among many of its sufferers. This and other evidence reviewed in the present paper provide further support for the thesis that the chronic disposition to worry should probably be classified under constitutional or trait anxiety. GAD is best considered an exaggeration of a normal personality disposition that can be named 'Generalized anxious temperament' (GAT). Despite some overlap with anxious-phobic, inhibited and avoidant-sensitive temperaments, GAT seems to have a distinct profile with altruistic overtones; on the other hand, GAT is less easily distinguished from harm-avoidant and obsessive traits. That worrying would increase upon relaxation is not a paradox at all, and is understandable in an ethological perspective as subserving the defensive function of being vigilant of ever present yet uncertain external dangers--to oneself and one's kin--in day-to-day living. GAT can thus be considered as 'altruistic anxiety', subserving hypothetically the survival of one's extended phenotype in a 'kin selection' paradigm. Only when extreme does worrying manifest in a clinical context, impairing one's interpersonal life and functioning at work, and increasing use of general health care resources. Furthermore, generalized anxiety appears to predispose to and is often associated with depression, and a spectrum of phobic disorders, as well as alcohol and sedative use. These considerations place GAD (and the putative GAT) in the limelight and underscore the need for more research into its fundamental characteristics. Towards this aim, a self-rated GAT measure under development in our center is provided in an appendix to this paper.
Interaction of temperamental resistance to control and restrictive parenting in the development of externalizing behavior.	Child temperament and parental control were studied as interacting predictors of behavior outcomes in 2 longitudinal samples. In Sample 1, data were ratings of resistant temperament and observed restrictive control in infancy-toddlerhood and ratings of externalizing behavior at ages 7 to 10 years; in Sample 2, data were retrospective ratings of temperament in infancy-toddlerhood, observed restrictive control at age 5 years, and ratings of externalizing behavior at ages 7 to 11 years. Resistance more strongly related to externalizing in low-restriction groups than in high-restriction groups. This was true in both samples and for both teacher- and mother-rated outcomes. Several Temperament x Environment interaction effects have been reported previously, but this is one of very few replicated effects.
An investigation of the co-occurrence of panic and somatization disorders through temperamental variables.	The relation of temperamental dimensions to somatization and panic disorders in women was investigated.
Factors and their origins in mate selection and choice among humans: implications for individual psychotherapy and counseling.	A mechanism of mate selection in humans is proposed and elaborated. It is further proposed that this mechanism constitutes one of the important factors for stability and the necessary longevity of the procreational dyad and therefore the procreational success of humans as a species. The concepts and mechanisms of assortative mating (homogamy) and that of complementarity of temperaments of the mates (heterogamy) which guide such selections are described, the relationships between the two are explored, and finally their possible early developmental origins are proposed. Evidence from a small study of 20 married couples' responses in temperament tests is offered as well as some illustrative case histories all pointing to those mechanisms. The argument is based mainly on principles of evolutionary psychology.
How shall we speak of children's personalities in middle childhood? A preliminary taxonomy.	Developmental researchers have neglected the study of personality traits in middle childhood, thus leaving unanswered many questions about childhood personality structure. This article presents a developmental framework for understanding personality in middle childhood and critically reviews 5 models of temperament and personality structure in this age range: the models of A. Thomas and S. Chess, A. H. Buss and R. Plomin, M. K. Rothbart, J. Block and J. H. Block, and the Big Five. A number of robust personality dimensions common to these models and the broader developmental and adult personality literatures are then discussed: sociability, social inhibition, dominance, negative emotionality, aggressiveness, prosocial disposition, persistence/attention, mastery motivation, inhibitory control, and activity level. These dimensions represent a preliminary taxonomy of personality traits for exploring questions of individual development in childhood.
Profiles of time perspective and personality: developmental considerations.	Time perspective is an important but subtle cognitive construct underlying personality, decision making, and goal setting. This study identified 3 temporal dimensions--temporal extension, temporal attitude, and temporal structure--and reviewed the associations among them. T. J. Cottle's (1969, 1977) work on temporal profiles was briefly reviewed; it suggested that 3 types of temporal profiles can be isolated and that 3 broad personality dimensions--human agency, mood, and temperament--from characteristic associations with each of the temporal profiles. The authors expected the profiles to reflect developmental sensitivities as a person moves from adolescence into early adulthood. Two samples (159 high school students and 236 university students) participated in the study. The results provided some limited support for the actualizer and atomist profiles; somewhat surprisingly, the role of temporal extension appeared to be insignificant. No evidence was found for a developmental transition of time perspective between middle adolescence (15-17 years) and early adulthood (18-25 years).
Alcohol choice and outcome expectancies in social drinkers.	Eighteen male social drinkers underwent four training sessions during which they ingested two colour-coded drinks (red or blue, balanced for drink type); one containing alcohol (aliquots of 0.1 g/kg) and the other placebo (aliquots of orangeade). Following the training sessions, subjects were presented with both drinks, and instructed to choose the drink they felt like consuming and to indicate their preference for their chosen drink over the other drink. In addition, they were instructed to consume the first drink but that all subsequent drinks (total of six drinks), offered at 10-min intervals, were optional. A number of trait characteristics were assessed including alcohol outcome expectancies, drinking habits and personality traits. The acute effects of alcohol on mood was also evaluated by comparing subjective ratings following alcohol and placebo during the training sessions. Of the 18 subjects, 12 chose alcohol at least once ('samplers'), whereas six never chose alcohol ('non-samplers'). Over the three sessions, however, alcohol and placebo were chosen equally. When alcohol was chosen, subjects drank significantly more than when placebo was chosen, which may be consistent with a priming effect of drinking alcohol. The amount of alcohol drunk was seen to correlate with the alcohol expectancy factor 'sociability'. Subjective reports of feeling 'alert', 'clear-headed', 'quick-witted', and 'attentive' all showed a main effect of choosing behaviour (i.e. 'samplers'/'non-samplers'). Further analysis indicated that this effect was due to 'samplers' reporting increased subjective ratings of these mood states following the ingestion of alcohol compared to 'non-samplers'. These increased subjective ratings were also positively correlated with the amount of alcohol consumed by the subjects during the choice procedure. No other relationships were found between the amount of alcohol consumed and any of the other state or trait measures. These data suggest that social drinkers who sample alcohol in a laboratory setting can be primed by alcohol to consume more. The results also indicated that the amount drunk was related to the degree to which subjects expected alcohol to increase sociability and to reports of subjective stimulant effects of alcohol (e.g., 'alert', 'clear-headed', 'quick-witted', and 'attentive').
Temperament of preterm infants at 4 months of age: maternal ratings and perceptions.	The purpose of this study was to compare temperament of preterm infants born at 34 weeks gestation or earlier with that of healthy, term infants at 4 months of age by maternal ratings and maternal perceptions and to examine the role of social support on maternal assessments of infant temperament. The mothers of preterm infants completed the Early Infancy Temperament Questionnaire (EITQ) and the Maternal Social Support Index when the child reached 4 months adjusted age. The EITQ assesses infant temperament by maternal ratings of specific infant behaviors and by mothers' global perceptions of infant temperament. Mothers of healthy term infants completed the same instruments when they brought their 4-month-old infant for a pediatric visit. Mothers rated preterm infants as having more negative mood (p = .01) and being less adaptable (p = .03) than term infants. However, mothers perceived that preterm infants were more difficult overall (p = .00001), had more negative mood (p < .005), were less regular (p = .02), and were less adaptable (p = .03). Mothers perceive preterm infant temperament to be more difficult than that of term infants and to be more difficult than is indicated by ratings of individual infant behaviors.
Temperament, recalled parenting styles, and self-regulation: testing the developmental postulates of self-discrepancy theory.	Self-discrepancy theory (SDT) postulates that self-regulatory systems corresponding to the ideal and ought self-domains emerge from the influences of temperament (e.g., sensitivity to stimuli for positive vs. negative outcomes) and socialization (e.g., parenting behaviors and interpersonal outcome contingencies). This article reports 2 studies testing the developmental postulates of SDT concurrently and retrospectively. Study 1 showed that self-regulation with reference to the ideal vs. the ought domain was differentially associated with recollections of parenting styles of warmth and rejection, respectively. In Study 2, these findings were replicated, and self-regulation with reference to the ideal vs. ought domain was discriminantly associated with questionnaire measures of positive vs. negative temperament. Findings support the developmental postulates of SDT, despite the limitations of retrospective studies.
Relationship between interpersonal psychotherapy problem areas with temperament and character: a pilot study.	To examine the relationships between dimensions of personality assessed by using the Temperament and Character Inventory and presenting problem areas in Interpersonal Psychotherapy.
