Internal architecture, origin-insertion site, and mass of jaw muscles in Old World hamsters.	The jaw muscle (i.e., masticatory, suprahyoid, and extrinsic tongue) anatomy and mass were examined in four genera of Old World hamsters (cricetine murids), Mesocricetus, Cricetulus, Tscherskia, and Phodopus. The masseter was the largest and most complicated of the muscles examined. In the superficial layer, a few ventral fibers form a small medially turned portion with an insertion site more similar to those of sciurids than of other murids. In Mesocricetus, the superficial layer has a discrete anteroventral portion that has not been reported for other murid rodents. Examination of the fiber attachment sites indicated that the deep layer contains four parts and the medial layer contains three parts. The deep layer originates from two aponeuroses that are firmly connected to each other at their anterior ends and lie along the zygomatic arch. The aponeurosis of insertion for the deep layer is situated along the masseteric ridge and the dorsal border of the angular process, but is absent in its middle part, consistent with reports in two relatives, sigmodontine and arvicoline murids. In cricetine murids, unlike in other rodents, fibers insert on the dorsal narrow strip of the posterior mandibular aponeurosis, not on its broad medial aspect. The relative mass of some masticatory and suprahyoid muscles is related to body mass. Small species (Cricetulus and Phodopus) have relatively larger masseter and mylohyoid muscles and smaller temporalis and geniohyoid muscles than large species (Mesocricetus and Tscherskia).
Effects of increased muscle mass on mouse sagittal suture morphology and mechanics.	The purpose of this study is to test predicted form-function relationships between cranial suture complexity and masticatory muscle mass and biomechanics in a mouse model. Specifically, to test the hypothesis that increased masticatory muscle mass increases sagittal suture complexity, we measured the fractal dimension (FD), temporalis mass, and temporalis bite force in myostatin-deficient (GDF8(-/-)) mice and wild-type CD-1 mice (all male, 6 months old). Myostatin is a negative regulator of muscle mass, and myostatin-deficient mice show a marked increase in muscle mass compared to normal mice. We predicted that increased sagittal suture complexity would decrease suture stiffness. The data presented here demonstrate that increased suture complexity (measured as FD) was observed in a hypermuscular mouse model (GDF8(-/-)) with significantly increased temporalis muscle mass and bite forces. Hypermuscular mice were also found to possess suture connective tissue that was less stiff (i.e., underwent more displacement before failure occurred) when loaded in tension. By decreasing stiffness, suture complexity apparently helps to dissipate mechanical loads within the cranium that are related to chewing. These results suggest that cranial suture connective tissue locally adapts to functional demands of the biomechanical suture environment. As such, cranial sutures provide a novel model for studies in connective tissue mechanotransduction.
Masticatory muscle thickness, bite force, and occlusal contacts in young children with unilateral posterior crossbite.	Few investigations have evaluated the characteristics of functional and structural malocclusion in young children. Thus, the aim of this study was to assess the ultrasonographic thickness of the masseter and anterior portion of the temporalis muscles, the maximum bite force, and the number of occlusal contacts in children with normal occlusion and unilateral crossbite, in the primary and early mixed dentition. Forty-nine children (26 males and 23 females) was divided into four groups: primary-normal occlusion (PNO), mean (PNO) age 58.67 months; primary-crossbite (PCB), mean age 60.50 months; mixed-normal occlusion (MNO), mean age 72.85 months; and mixed-crossbite (MCB), mean age 71.91 months. Thickness was evaluated with the muscles at rest and during maximal clenching, and comparison was made between the right and left side (normal occlusion), and between the normal and crossbite side (crossbite). The results were analysed using Pearson's correlation, paired and unpaired t-test, and Mann-Whitney ranked sum test. The anterior temporalis thickness at rest was statistically thicker for the crossbite side than the normal side in the MCB group (P = 0.0106). A statistical difference in bite force and the number of occlusal contacts was observed between the MNO and MCB groups, with greater values for the MNO subjects (P < 0.05). Masseter muscle thickness showed a positive correlation with bite force, but the anterior temporalis thickness in the PCB and MCB groups was not related to bite force. Masticatory muscle thickness and bite force did not present a significant correlation with occlusal contacts, weight, or height. It was concluded that functional and anatomical variables differ in the early mixed dentition in the presence of a malocclusion and early diagnosis and treatment planning should be considered.
Relationships between jaw muscle cross-sections and craniofacial morphology in normal adults, studied with magnetic resonance imaging.	In 32 Caucasian adult males serial MRI scans of the jaw muscles were taken approximately perpendicular to the mean fibre direction of the jaw muscles to determine their cross-sectional areas. These areas are proportional to the maximal isometric strength of a muscle. To describe facial skeletal variation, nine angular and 21 linear cephalometric measurements were recorded, and statistically reduced by means of multiple regression and principal component analysis. Six components were extracted, rotated, and subsequently correlated with the maximal cross-sectional areas of the jaw elevators and anterior digastric muscle. Positive significant correlations were found between a linear combination of several transversal skull dimensions on the one hand, and the maximal temporalis and masseter cross-sections on the other. A negative significant correlation was found between the flexure of the cranial base and the temporalis cross-section. Surprisingly, no significant correlations were found between either anterior facial height or posterior facial height and any of the jaw muscles cross-sections. It was concluded that, in adult males with normal skull shape, relationships exist to a limited extent between craniofacial morphology and the cross-sectional areas of the jaw muscles.
A detection scheme for frontalis and temporalis muscle EMG contamination of EEG data.	Electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings are highly susceptible to noise from electromyogram (EMG) signals of the frontalis and temporalis muscles. In this paper, we propose and evaluate a new method for detecting frontalis and temporalis muscle EMG contamination in EEG signals based on recent findings on topographic and spectral characteristics of cranial EMG.
The masticatory system under varying functional load. Part 2: Effect of reduced masticatory load on the degree and distribution of mineralization in the rabbit mandible.	A reduction in mechanical loading of the mandible brought about by mastication of soft food is assumed to decrease the remodelling rate of bone, which, in turn, might increase the degree of bone mineralization. The effect of a reduction in masticatory functional load on the degree and distribution of mineralization of mandibular bone was investigated in male juvenile New Zealand White rabbits. The experimental animals (n=8) had been raised on a diet of soft pellets from 8 to 20 weeks of age, while the controls (n=8) had been fed pellets of normal hardness. The degree of mineralization of bone (DMB) was assessed at the attachment sites of various jaw muscles, the condylar head, and the alveolar process. Differences between groups and among sites were tested for statistical significance using a Student's t-test and one-way analysis of variance, respectively. The DMB did not differ significantly between the experimental and control animals at any of the sites assessed. However, in the rabbits that had been fed soft pellets, both cortical bone at the attachment sites of the temporalis and digastric muscles and cortical bone in the alveolar process had a significantly higher DMB than cortical bone at the attachment site of the masseter muscle, while there were no significant differences among these sites in the control animals. The results suggest that a moderate reduction in masticatory functional load does not significantly affect the remodelling rate and the DMB in areas of the mandible that are loaded during mastication but might induce a more heterogeneous mineral distribution.
Bilinear elastic property of the periodontal ligament for simulation using a finite element mandible model.	This study aimed to introduce a procedure for determining the bilinear elastic moduli (E1 and E2) of the periodontal ligament for a mathematical tooth model to analyse stress in the mandible. The bone and tooth morphology were scanned from a dry skull and an extracted intact tooth, respectively, and reconstructed in a three-dimensional finite element model. The model showed good agreement with previously reported in vivo premolar movement when an E1 for the first phase tooth movement of 0.05 MPa and an E2 for the second phase of 8.0 MPa with ε(12) of 0.075 were adopted. The mandible model analysis indicated that a remarkably high maximum compressive stress in the cervical cortical bone and the tensile stress in areas of masticatory muscle attachment were found. Future stress analyses using a jaw model may follow the process of determination of bilinear moduli to enhance accurate simulation with less calculation time.
Variations of the attachment of the superior head of human lateral pterygoid muscle.	The superior head of the lateral pterygoid muscle (LPM), is closely related to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and plays a role in the aetiology of temporomandibular disorders. Increased activity of this muscle has been implicated in the anterior displacement of the TMJ disc. However, there is uncertainty about the manner of the LPM attachment to the disc-condyle complex.
Functional morphology of the maxillo-mandibular apparatus of the mini-Lewe minipig. 2. Structure of the masticatory muscles of adult animals]	The masseter muscle is the most powerfully developed of the jaw muscles in the miniature pig MINI-LEWE. Its internal skeleton contains 5 Sehnenspiegel. The zygomatico-mandibular muscle acts as a link between the masseter and temporal muscles. The pinnate structure of the temporal muscle results from the internal tendons, which attach to the coronoid process. The medial pterygoid muscle with its 7 Sehnenspiegel has the most complex pinnate structure. The lateral pterygoid muscle has small tendinous slips only in the regions of its origin and attachment.
The temporalis muscle flap for intraoral reconstruction.	In this series of seven patients, we used the temporalis muscle flap for reconstruction of tongue and floor-of-mouth defects. For intraoral reconstruction, the temporalis muscle flap has advantages over the standard workhorse flap, the pectoralis major. The temporalis muscle flap is far less bulky, more pliable, non-hair bearing, and in closer proximity to the oral cavity. Use of this muscle does not impair mandibular function. The depression that results after the temporalis muscle has been transferred is minimal. Most of this donor area is covered by hair. The only site where the depression can be significant is at the zygomatic arch, where the tunnel into the mouth is formed after removal of the arch. If the arch is wired back into position, this aesthetic detriment is obviated. In gaining exposure of the zygomatic arch, significant traction can be placed on the soft tissues through which the temporal branch of the facial nerve runs. In one patient, a temporal nerve branch paralysis occurred that required a browpexy; in another patient, there was a transient paresis; and in the others, there was no deficit. The temporalis muscle flap is hardy and durable, and has become our mainstay flap for intraoral reconstruction.
Craniofacial growth modified by blood supply. 8. Discussion of normal cranial growth of the rat]	The dimensions of the skull and the dry weight of the skull bones show definite sexual dimorphism. The dynamics of the growth in the skull dimensions and their vectorial presentation show that skull growth in Rattus norvegicus BERKENHOUT is most rapid between the 42nd d and the 4th month of life. This phase is followed by a phase of localized bone growth, which persists up to an age of 300 d. The faster growth of the viscerocranium leads to changes in the proportions of the skull. The relative positions of viscerocranium and mandible and the higher relative position of the dentures are similar to principle to those seen in man. Finally, the morphogenetic effect of the temporalis muscle together with that of the brain in the shaping of the skull are discussed.
A modified surgical technique for temporalis transfer.	A modification of the temporalis muscle transfer for facial animation in facial palsy is described. Seven cases are presented which demonstrate the advantages of the procedure, especially the avoidance of temporal hollowing and the greater power due to less dissection of the muscle belly, a more direct line of pull and the absence of a pulley. In addition, food pooling in the buccal sulcus is reduced, and the procedure is less extensive and thus better tolerated.
