Surgical management of the advanced orbit malignancies]	Twenty one patients with advanced malignant tumors of the orbit have been treated in the Department of Otolaryngology, Medical Academy in Warsaw, between 1980 and 1995. There were two groups of patients: five with primary orbital tumors and sixteen with secondary tumors that penetrated from sinuses. In all cases surgical treatment with orbital exenteration has been performed, as well as postoperative radiotherapy. The local cutaneus flaps and temporalis muscle flap have been used for reconstruction of the orbitomaxillary defects. The authors suggest that one-stage reconstruction of maxillo-facial region after surgery decreases facial deformation and allows to apply ocular prothesis guickly.
Canalicular adenoma of the palate: case report and literature review.	Canalicular adenoma is a rare benign salivary gland tumor of the oral cavity, typically located in the upper lip and buccal mucosa and infrequently found on the palate. The tumor is usually confined to soft tissue and rarely presents with bone erosion. A case of a large and locally-aggressive palatal canalicular adenoma is presented. The lesion presented herein was an asymptomatic ulcerated mass with significant bone erosion. The tumor was managed surgically with excision and reconstruction of the resulting palatal defect with a full temporalis muscle flap.
The temporal muscle flap for closure of large palatal defects in CLP patients.	Large palatal defects in 4 CLP patients were successfully closed by transposition of the anterior part of the temporal muscle. The donor side was filled by transposing the posterior part of the temporal muscle whilst the posterior area was contoured with orthopaedic bone cement.
Orthodromic transposition of the temporal muscle for facial paralysis: made easy and better.	The authors present a modified technique of transposition of temporal muscle for reanimation of facial paralysis. Fourteen cases illustrate the simplicity, advantages, and excellent esthetic and functional results of this method.
The "yo-yo" technique to prevent cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after anterior clinoidectomy for proximal internal carotid artery aneurysms.	Resection of the anterior clinoid process is important for the exposure of aneurysms on clinoidal and supraclinoidal segments of the internal carotid artery. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea can complicate anterior clinoidectomy when the optic strut is pneumatized and its removal communicates the subarachnoid space with the sphenoid sinus. We present a technique for repairing this defect and preventing CSF rhinorrhea.
Reconstruction of full-thickness cheek defects with combined temporalis myofacial and facial-cervico-pectoral flaps.	The objective of this study was to assess using the temporal myofacial flaps (TMFF) and the facial-cervico-pectoral flap (FCPF) to provide both inner and outer linings for large full-thickness cheek defects following ablative oral cancer surgery.
Effect of fascia repair of the temporomandibular joint disk of sheep.	The effects of temporal fascia graft repair of temporomandibular joint disk perforation on intra-articular structure were examined on four sheep. Four sheep had bilateral disk perforations. At 20 weeks the perforation in the right joint was repaired with a temporal fascia graft. At 40 weeks the sheep were killed and the joints were examined radiologically and histologically. It was found that the temporal fascia graft did not survive and the disks remained perforated. However, histologically and radiologically there were fewer changes than in the joints where the perforated disks were not repaired.
Long-term anatomic and functional results of cartilage tympanoplasty in atelectatic ears.	The purpose of this study was to analyze the anatomic and functional results of cartilage tympanoplasty performed on atelectatic ears using the palisade technique and to assess the long-term efficacy of cartilage palisades in preventing recurrent retractions. The records of 54 patients (56 ears) who underwent surgery for atelectasis with or without mastoidectomy from January 2000 to August 2005 were retrospectively evaluated. A successful outcome was defined as complete and intact healing of the graft without perforation, retraction, or lateralization for at least 36 months after the operation, in addition to improvement of hearing indicated by a pure-tone average air-bone gap (PTA-ABG) of less than 20 dB. The mean follow-up period was 44.5 +/- 8.0 months (range, 36-68 months). Closure of the tympanic membrane was achieved in 91% of ears. Otomicroscopic evaluation revealed nine (16%) mild and five (8%) moderate retractions, but none of the retractions was deep enough to necessitate tube placement. Postoperative PTA-ABG was less than 20 dB in 71% of ears. The average preoperative and postoperative ABG values, including all types of tympanoplasty operations (Type I, II and III), were 28.4 +/- 5.8 and 16.9 +/- 6.7 dB, respectively (p < 0.001). No significant difference in the change in PTA-ABG was found between the groups with or without mastoidectomy (p > 0.05). Palisade cartilage tympanoplasty is an effective technique for tympanic membrane closure and hearing improvement in atelectatic ears. Mastoidectomy does not change the anatomic or audiologic findings in these types of ears. We recommend this technique to other otologic surgeons.
Free temporoparietal flap in hand coverage. Report of three cases]	Hands defect coverage needs thin and pliable flaps. Few free flaps such as free temporoparietal flap are adequate. It provides moderate donor scar and unique range of motion for tendinous coverage. We expose three cases of hand reconstruction: two dorsal coverage with tendinous exposition and reconstruction and one thumb coverage. The postoperative results were satisfactory concerning hands. One patient developed alopecia and dysesthesis on scalp. We think that this flap is a good alternative for serratus free fascial flap.
Dislocation of the intact mandibular condyle into the middle cranial fossa: a case report.	Dislocation of the mandibular condyle into the middle cranial fossa is extremely rare. The authors present a case of superior dislocation of left condyle into the middle cranial fossa. The dislocated condyle was reduced successfully and then a flap of temporal muscle and a thin titanium network were used to repair the defect in the middle cranial fossa.
Orbital exenteration]	Orbital exenteration is a disfiguring surgery. The surgery is mostly performed for advanced neoplasms of the eyelid in an attempt to achieve cure with tumor free margins. Reconstruction is a real challenge, especially in elderly patients with significant comorbidities.
Temporalis muscle flap for immediate reconstruction of maxillary defects: review of 39 cases.	This study evaluated the advantages and complications associated with immediate reconstruction of maxillary defects after maxillectomy and the relationship between defect tissues classification and postoperative results after using the temporalis muscle flap. In this retrospective study, the records of 39 patients who underwent immediate reconstruction surgery using temparolis myofascial flap following maxillectomy from April 1989 to February 2009 were reviewed. Demographic data, features of the disease, follow-up, outcome and complications were analysed. Patients were classified into three groups, to ascertain the influence between defect classification and functional results, aesthetic outcomes and complications in each group. Of the 39 cases, all tissue flaps survived. 5 patients underwent postoperative radiotherapy, which did not seem to influence the outcome of the reconstructive procedure. There was one case of oroantral fistula, which could easily be obturated with the prosthesis. One patient developed haematoma in the donor site 5 days after surgery. Postoperative speech was good, facial appearance was normal and ocular function remained unchanged. Postoperative aesthetic and functional results were satisfying. The temporalis muscle flap can be considered as a first-line reconstructive option for maxillary defects. Acceptable functional and aesthetic outcomes can be expected in high rates.
Management of temporomandibular joint ankylosis associated with mandibular asymmetry in infancy.	Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis during early childhood always produces alteration of the mandibular growth with facial asymmetry, chin deviation, and malocclusion. The younger the ankylosis happens, the more severe the facial deformity presents. When TMJ ankylosis occurs in infancy, there might be a delay in diagnosis and treatment. In this article, we describe a case of TMJ ankylosis in a 10-month-old boy. The etiology was indistinct. Surgical plan including modified gap arthroplasty, costochondral graft (CCG), temporalis fascial flap, was preformed to this patient. The joint and the mandibular ramus were restored. No severe complication occurred. There was no recurrence of ankylosis and further developing of mandibular asymmetry during 2-year follow-up period.
Rehabilitation of congenital facial palsy with temporalis flap--case series and literature review.	Congenital facial paralysis is a rare disorder with an incidence of less than 1 in 1000 live births. Several surgical rehabilitation techniques have been described, such as free flaps or transpositions of the temporalis muscle. We report our experience of transposition of the temporalis muscle in this indication.
Orbital exenteration and periorbital skin cancers.	Orbital exenteration is a disfiguring surgical procedure that requires thoughtful reconstruction.
Reconstruction of discharging mastoid cavities using the temporalis myofascial flap.	Muscle obliteration of the troublesome mastoid cavity is one method of achieving a permanently dry ear, although long-term results are often disappointing. An operation is described, which is a modification of existing techniques and utilizes a temporalis myofascial flap. This procedure has been used on 46 discharging mastoid cavities and produced encouraging results. It provides a simple, safe and reliable solution to the problem.
