Orbitozygomatic approach by transposition of temporalis muscle and one-piece osteotomy.	A more simplified and easier technique for the orbitozygomatic approach is sought. We have developed a new modification to fully expose the temporal base before using one-piece craniotomy.
Cell surface characteristics of microbiological isolates from human percutaneous titanium implants in the head and neck.	Percutaneous implants are commonly associated with several problems, and different failure modes have been described. Infections constitute one serious complication which may lead to the removal of the implant. In contrast to infections around polymer implants, infections around skin-penetrating titanium implants anchored in the temporal bone are often cured by local treatment. Coagulase-negative staphylococci are the most common etiological agents in infections related to polymers whereas Staphylococcus aureus is considered as the main pathogen in infections around metallic implants. Microbial adhesion is a prerequisite for an infection. In the present study, the cell surface of microbes isolated from the skin around skin-penetrating titanium implants, with and without signs of infection, was characterized with respect to expression of cell surface hydrophobicity and to binding of immobilized fibronectin, vitronectin and collagen type 1 which could mediate adhesion. Expression of protein binding was similar in strains isolated from the two groups. No strain expressed a hydrophobic cell surface as determined by two-phase separation, and we conclude that the microenvironment around a titanium implant promotes expression of a hydrophilic rather than a hydrophobic cell surface which in turn makes many infections around a titanium implant curable by local treatment.
The Leyla retractor: use in acoustic neuroma and neurotologic surgery.	The Leyla retractor is a self-retaining retractor used in the translabyrinthine removal of acoustic neuroma and middle fossa surgery. It is used to maintain constant, even pressure on a decompressed sigmoid sinus and cerebellum in translabyrinthine surgery and the temporal lobe in middle fossa surgery. The Leyla retractor provides excellent exposure and greater freedom and dexterity for the neurotologist.
Partial or total eighth nerve section in the treatment of vertigo.	Partial vestibular (singular) neurectomy under general anesthesia through a postauricular approach is an effective method of relieving incapacitating benign positional vertigo, as is the case in 14 of 16 patients (87%) so treated. Middle fossa vestibular neurectomy appears to be a worthwhile procedure to deinnervate the peripheral vestibular system while preserving hearing. The results of 27 middle fossa vestibular neurectomies indicate relief of vertigo in 85% of the patients. The results of treatment on 44 patients undergoing transmeatal-cochleovestibular neurectomy indicated that vertigo was relieved in 19 of 23 (82%) with Meniere's disease and improved in 50% of the patients with post-stapedectomy vertigo and sensorineural hearing loss. Tinnitus was cured or markedly improved in 80% of the patients with Meniere's disease and 70% of the patients with post-stapedectomy sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus. The transmeatal-transcochlear approach to the internal auditory canal offers advantages over the transmeatal labyrinthectomy or translabyrinthine approach to the internal auditory canal.
Frontotemporal reconstruction with hydroxyapatite cement and the radial forearm free flap.	Contemporary surgical reconstruction of extensive frontal and temporal bony and soft tissue defects requires the use of myocutaneous free flaps. These flaps are associated with donor site morbidity, lengthy operative time, and lack of rigid protection for the brain. To circumvent these problems, we introduce a new surgical technique for reconstruction of frontotemporal defects.
Magnet-retained auricular prosthesis with an implant-supported composite bar: a clinical report.	The use of craniofacial implants to assist in retaining auricular prostheses often requires complex laboratory procedures, involving production of an accurate casting, fitting of a precious alloy bar, and the use of clips. A simplified method for the retention of an auricular prosthesis with a composite bar and magnets is described in this article.
Spontaneous otogenic intracerebral pneumocephalus: case report and review of the literature.	Pneumocephalus is commonly associated with head and facial trauma, ear infection or surgical interventions. We describe the rare case of a spontaneous pneumocephalus arising from lateral mastoid air cells. A 48-year-old man presented with a 10-day history of sudden, repetitive, 'hammering-like' acoustic sensations in his left ear that were followed by word-finding difficulties and loss of vision in the right visual field. Imaging revealed a large, left temporal pneumatocele associated with a small acute intracerebral hemorrhage. Left temporal and subtemporal craniotomy and decompression were performed. Further exploration confirmed a dural and osseous defect in the anterolateral surface of the mastoid that was consecutively closed watertight. Although extremely rare, a spontaneous pneumocephalus with mastoidal origin should be considered as a possible diagnosis in patients with suggestive acoustic phenomena and other non-specific neurological symptoms.
Tegmen tympani cerebrospinal fluid leak repair.	To describe the transmastoid approach for closing cerebrospinal fluid leaks in the tegmen tympani using autologous materials (temporal muscle fascia and abdominal fat) and heterologous materials (bovine collagen), together with its advantages and disadvantages.
Development and evaluation of an improved cochlear implant electrode design for electric acoustic stimulation.	The objective of this study was to assess the intracochlear position and the extent of trauma to cochlear structures using a new prototype electrode carrier (Flex EAS). Special emphasis was placed on the practicality for combined electric and acoustic stimulation of the auditory system.
Complication rate of transtemporal hydroxyapatite cement cranioplasties: a case series review of 76 cranioplasties.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the complication rate of transtemporal cranioplasties using hydroxyapatite cement (HAC) for repair.
Haptic simulation of the milling process in temporal bone operations.	A VR-simulation system for educating surgeons of the temporal bone milling processes is presented in this paper. E.g. the milling process that occurs during the removal of certain cancer tumors in the brain. The research project is recently started up and this paper is an introduction to the bone milling simulation topic. We present how the graphical rendering of the temporal bone is done. Acquired data are managed using the Marching cubes algorithm to perform a visual representation. A re-production of iso-surfaces will represent the material removal occurred during the milling process. Force models are discussed and will be implemented in the H3D API, which is used to control the virtual simulation and collision detection. Equipment, implementation and future work are also presented in the paper.
A networked haptic virtual environment for teaching temporal bone surgery.	This paper describes a computer system for teaching temporal bone surgery using networked haptic work benches. The system enables an instructor and student to collaboratively explore and drill a volumetric bone model including significant anatomical features. Subjective evaluations by otologists have been favourable, and experimental trials are planned.
The accuracy of computer-aided surgery in neurotologic approaches to the temporal bone: a cadaver study.	To assess the accuracy of computer-aided surgery for common neurotologic approaches to the temporal bone.
In vitro assessment of image-guided otologic surgery: submillimeter accuracy within the region of the temporal bone.	Application of image-guided surgery to otology has been limited by the need for submillimeter accuracy via a fiducial system that is easily usable (noninvasive and nonobstructive).
Subperiosteal subtemporal approach: technique and applications.	The authors describe a craniofacial surgical approach that they have used since 1987. Based on existing anatomical continuity between the subtemporal plane and the cranial periosteum, it consists of a direct subperiosteal subtemporal cleavage. Preservation of continuity between the muscle and the periosteum allows the operator to return the temporalis muscle to a normal position at the end of the operation when the scalp is sutured. This approach avoids superficial cleaving of the temporalis muscle or section and reinsertion to the fronto-orbital rim. It also allows access to the upper third of the face without jeopardizing the frontal ramus of the facial nerve.
Cranial vault reduction cranioplasty in children with hydrocephalic macrocephaly.	Craniofacial surgeons are rarely presented patients with extreme hydrocephalic macrocephaly due to early diagnosis and treatment of the hydrocephalus. Macrocephaly can significantly limit or prohibit mobility, hygiene and can drastically change lifestyle and developmental issues. The authors herein report on four consecutive total cranial vault reduction cranioplasty procedures for correction of hydrocephalic macrocephaly. The patients had a reduction in cranial volume ranging from 111-641 mL. All patients survived the procedure. Improvement in head control and aesthetics were improved in all patients. All of the patients required at least one shunt revision following the procedure. We conclude that total cranial vault reshaping is safe and effective for the treatment of macrocephaly secondary to hydrocephalus.
Surgical management of lesions of the internal carotid artery using a modified Fisch type A infratemporal approach.	To report seven cases of vascular repair of the internal carotid artery (ICA) using a modified Fisch type A infratemporal approach and a venous grafting.
First-bite syndrome after resection of the styloid process.	First-bite syndrome (FBS) may occur after operations on parapharyngeal space. The main symptom is excruciating pain only after the first one or two bites of meals.
Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma of the external auditory canal: case report.	Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma (BSCC) is a rare malignancy, with features of both basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. The tumor has a predilection for the upper aerodigestive tract, and has been suggested to behave more aggressively than squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). To the author's knowledge, BSCC confined to the external auditory canal (EAC) has not been previously described. BSCC of EAC manifests similar characteristics as the conventional EAC cancer, presenting a mass with chronic otorrhea and itching sense. Excision of the tumor was accomplished by modified lateral temporal bone resection. This report describes the first case of BSCC in this location, and includes reviews of the pathologic and clinical aspects of this disease.
Atraumatic surgical approach to the cochlea with a micromanipulator.	Our design and preliminary results show that the the micromanipulator could be a great help to the surgeon in the atraumatic surgical approach to the lateral wall of the cochlea at the promontory.
Low fidelity simulation of temporal bone drilling leads to improved but suboptimal outcomes.	Novices' learning of temporal bone drilling on a simple (2D) model was compared to learning of the skill on a complex model (3D). Trainees practicing on 2D model required an additional 3D practice to achieve similar final products as those practicing on a 3D model. This implies that during learning fundamental psychomotor adaptations take place, regardless of the exact skill practiced. However to achieve optimal products the depth of drilling must be practiced separately on high fidelity models.
Titanium mesh (TiMesh) osteosynthesis: a fast and adaptable method of semi-rigid fixation.	Titanium mesh has been used in the USA for the fixation of fractures of the facial skeleton since the Vietnam war. Despite the increasing use of titanium mesh osteosynthesis for trauma, orthognathic and reconstructive surgery in the USA, it is only in recent years that it has gained acceptance in Europe. This paper appraises the original titanium mesh osteosynthesis system (TiMesh) in a wide range of surgical contexts in the maxillofacial region. It has been found to be quick and reliable in placement, highly adaptable and to have considerably reduced the operating time. Its further potential advantages in reducing stress-shielding and improving functional bone healing due to its semi-rigid nature are discussed.
Temporal bone resection.	It must be emphasized that the greatest impact of survival can only be obtained through an early diagnosis and a radical treatment program. Any granulation tissue must be sent for biopsy to rule out the possibility of malignancy in the setting of chronic otitis media. Once carcinoma is diagnosed, imaging studies must be obtained to define the extent of the tumor. Under diagnosis is the rule with these malignancies. Tumors limited to the external auditory canal can be adequately resected with a lateral temporal bone resection. Extension into the middle ear and mastoid aircell systems requires either a subtotal temporal bone resection or a lateral temporal bone resection with a radical mastoidectomy and petrousectomy. The inclusion of the petrous apex with the resection, as in a temporal bone resection, does not add to survival but increases morbidity. Radical postoperative radiation therapy is essential for maximum local control and survival with these malignancies.
Use of a novel ultrasonic surgical system for decompression of the facial nerve.	The middle cranial fossa approach has been used to explore and decompress the facial nerve in patients with Bell's palsy and facial nerve tumors. Unfortunately, this approach is technically challenging and has a significant risk of injury to the facial nerve and to the cochleovestibular organs. One way to minimize the risk may be with the use of the Sonopet Omni ultrasonic aspirator (Synergetics Inc., St Charles, MO) instead of an otologic drill.
Individual models for virtual bone drilling in mastoid surgery.	Segmented training cases for virtual simulation of bone-drilling interventions in middle ear surgery have proven to be helpful in learning about surgical anatomy of the temporal bone. The anatomy of the mastoid shows a high degree of variability, however, and the aim of this study was to evaluate whether individual virtual models could be created within an affordable timeframe, and to what extend they reflected natural individual anatomy during virtual mastoid surgery. Automatic segmentation schemes were used, and these reduced the time required to create individual models on the basis of DICOM CT scans to less than 5 minutes. Models based on CT data with a slice distance of 0.4 mm or better were found to provide excellent handling, an acceptable depiction of mastoidal organs, and a helpful impression of the individual surgical situation. Although landmarks are still more easily detected in real mastoids, virtual drilling of individual models makes the 3D estimation of specific anatomy more effective than estimations based on interpretation of CT scans alone.
Orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach for a high basilar tip aneurysm associated with a short intracranial internal carotid artery: a new surgical approach.	For two cases of a high basilar tip aneurysm accompanied by a short intracranial internal carotid artery, the orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach consisting of an en bloc fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal craniotomy and temporopolar approach was carried out. On angiograms, the height of the bifurcation of an elongated basilar artery and the length of the intracranial internal carotid artery from the interclinoid line between the anterior and posterior clinoid process were 20 mm and 6 mm in Case 1, and 18 mm and 5 mm in Case 2, respectively. The skin flap was separated subfascially to preserve the frontotemporal branch of the facial nerve. The fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal bone flap was made, and a part of the basal bony structures of the orbital roof, the sphenoid ridge, and the temporal bone were removed. The basilar tip aneurysm could be seen and clipped easily by upward and oblique viewing from below through the wide operative space consisting of the less retracted internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries, the oculomotor nerve, the tentorial hiatus, and the emptied anterior temporal fossa obtained by partial division of the temporal bridging veins. The operative procedure is presented in detail and compared with other surgical approaches that have been described previously.
Minimal incisions for treating zygomatic complex fractures.	The objective was to study the clinical application and effects of minimal incisions for treating zygomatic complex (ZMC) fractures.
Computer-assisted innovations in craniofacial surgery.	Reconstructive surgery for complex craniofacial defects challenges even the most experienced surgeons. Preoperative reconstructive planning requires consideration of both functional and aesthetic properties of the mandible, orbit, and midface. Technological innovations allow for computer-assisted preoperative planning, computer-aided manufacturing of patient-specific implants (PSIs), and computer-assisted intraoperative navigation. Although many case reports discuss computer-assisted preoperative planning and creation of custom implants, a general overview of computer-assisted innovations is not readily available. This article reviews innovations in computer-assisted reconstructive surgery including anatomic considerations when using PSIs, technologies available for preoperative planning, work flow and process of obtaining a PSI, and implant materials available for PSIs. A case example follows illustrating the use of this technology in the reconstruction of an orbital-frontal-temporal defect with a PSI. Computer-assisted reconstruction of complex craniofacial defects provides the reconstructive surgeon with innovative options for challenging reconstructive cases. As technology advances, applications of computer-assisted reconstruction will continue to expand.
The results of temporal bone surgery for advanced or recurrent tumors of the parotid gland.	To describe the results of temporal bone surgery in managing advanced or recurrent tumors of the parotid gland.
The frontotemporal-orbitozygomatic approach: reconstructive technique and outcome.	The frontotemporal-orbitozygomatic (FTOZ) approach, also known as "the workhorse of skull base surgery," has captured the interest of many researchers throughout the years. Most of the studies published have focused on the surgical technique and the gained exposure. However, few studies have described reconstructive techniques or functional and cosmetic outcomes. The goal of this study was to describe the surgical reconstruction after the FTOZ approach and analyze the functional and cosmetic outcomes.
Uncommon lesions in the internal auditory canal (IAC): review of the literature and case report.	Despite the relatively frequent occurrence of multiple primary tumors, namely, 10% of intracranial tumors, metastasis is a rare occurrence within the internal auditory canal (IAC) and cerebellopontine angle (CPA). Intracanalicular metastases of adenocarcinoma are documented, but a primary adenocarcinoma remains unreported. We provide a review of uncommon lesions in the IAC and describe to our knowledge the first instance of a primary adenocarcinoma.
Objective assessment of learning curves for the Voxel-Man TempoSurg temporal bone surgery computer simulator.	Simulators are becoming an increasingly important part of surgical training. Temporal bone surgery is one area in which simulators, such as the Voxel-Man TempoSurg simulator, are likely to play a significant role in training. We present learning curve data from novice trainees using this simulator to learn cortical mastoidectomy, exposure of the sigmoid sinus, and exposure of the short process of the incus.
Stability of osseointegrated bone conduction systems in children:  a pilot study.	To obtain objective data of bone conduction implant stability and osseointegration in children; to compare in pediatric subjects the stability and osseointegration of the novel TiOblast-coated implant system (BI300) to the previous generation, as-machined model.
Extraoral implants in the rehabilitation of craniofacial defects: implant and prosthesis survival rates and peri-implant soft tissue evaluation.	Few reports have evaluated cumulative survival rates of extraoral rehabilitation and peri-implant soft tissue reaction at long-term follow-up. The objective of this study was to evaluate implant and prosthesis survival rates and the soft tissue reactions around the extraoral implants used to support craniofacial prostheses.
New technique for correcting mild types of cryptotia:  elevate cavum conchae cartilage and suture to cranial periosteum.	We have developed a new technique for the treatment of mild types of cryptotia in which the cavum conchae cartilage was pulled superiorly and sutured it to the temporal bone to the temporal parietal junction periosteum securely. Then, the stitches for bolster fixation were inserted parallel to the auricular temporal sulcus and temporarily left untied. Our technique is easy to use and secures a firm bolster fixation, and the scar is hidden. We recommend it for the treatment of mild types of cryptotia.
Advances to electrode pullback in cochlear implant surgery.	To observe the intracochlear behavior of a cochlear implant electrode insertion technique (called "pullback") in temporal bones. Study Design. Experimental. Settings. Tertiary referral center.
Two cases of spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) otorrhea with meningitis]	We report on two cases of spontaneous CSF otorrhea, which were considered to have been caused by enlarged arachnoid granulation with bone erosion of the posterior fossa. Both cases visited us complaining of severe headache, due to bacterial meningitis. In the first patient, a 68-year-old male, a high resolution CT scan showed a bony defect in the posterior fossa plate in the right temporal bone, where CSF leakage was confirmed during the operation. In the second patient, a 54-year-old female, a bony defect was located in the posterior fossa in the left temporal bone. In both cases, the bony defects were repaired by occlusion with the pedicled temporal muscles after the meningitis had been treated. CSF otorrhea disappeared after the surgery, and has not recurred during the postoperative observation period of 1 to 3 years.
Clinical experience with navigation functions for temporal bone surgery : interim result after 40 patients]	Although robust algorithms for registration and segmentation are available, the majority of surgical approaches to the temporal bone are nowadays made without navigation assistance. Beside instrument navigation (IN), functions such as distance control (DC) and navigated control (NC) can be used. This study analyzes the application of these navigation functionalities in lateral skull base and middle ear surgery.
Parotid metastatic disease from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma: prognostic role of facial nerve sacrifice, lateral temporal bone resection, immune status and P-stage.	Recognized prognostic indicators for metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the head and neck include facial nerve involvement, immune status, and "parotid" staging system (P-stage). We sought to examine the impact of lateral temporal bone resection (LTBR) on prognosis.
Meningoencephalocele of the temporal bone: pictorial essay on transmastoid extradural-intracranial repair.	A spontaneous meningoencephalocele of the temporal bone may present with effusion in the middle ear, a cerebrospinal fluid leak, hearing loss, or rarely otitic meningitis. Repair of spontaneous encephaloceles in the temporal bone has been performed using transmastoid and transcranial middle fossa approaches or a combination of the two with varied results. The authors present a technical paper on the transmastoid extradural intracranial approach for the management of temporal lobe encephaloceles.
Evaluation of intraoperative cone beam computed tomography and optical drill tracking in temporal bone surgery.	A prototype system for intraoperative cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) imaging has been developed and augmented with real time optical tracking of a surgical drill. We hypothesize that this system provides sufficient accuracy for guidance of temporal bone surgery.
Results of Baha® implantation using a small horizontal incision.	Techniques for Baha® implantation continue to evolve. The Weber technique, utilizing a 1.5 cm horizontal incision for Baha® implantation is evaluated.
A temporal bone preparation for the study of cochlear micromechanics at the cellular level.	An in vitro preparation of the guinea pig temporal bone was developed for studying the micromechanical behaviour of the cochlea. The preparation consists of the cochlea opened at the apex, allowing observation of cellular structures within the cochlear partition with an optical sectioning microscope and measurements of cellular vibration with laser interferometry. The middle ear ossicles and the tympanic membrane are left intact as well as the bony part of the external auditory canal, which is used for delivering a sound stimulus to the cochlea.
Malignant tumors of the middle ear and external auditory canal: a 20-year review.	Twenty-four patients with malignant tumors of the external auditory canal and middle ear, originally seen between 1960 and 1980, were reviewed retrospectively. Seventeen patients had epidermoid carcinoma, one had adenocarcinoma, three had rhabdomyosarcoma, and one had osteosarcoma. At presentation, four had disease confined to the external auditory canal, three had superficial invasion of the bony canal, four had deeply invasive disease, and thirteen had disease that extended beyond the temporal bone. Treatment consisted of radiation, surgery, and combination therapy. Four patients with osteosarcoma or rhabdomyosarcoma received adjuvant chemotherapy. Five years after therapy, one of four patients with external auditory canal tumor died of disease, and two died of intercurrent disorders. One of three patients with superficial temporal bone invasion and two of four patients with deeply invasive tumor died of their disease; another died of intercurrent disorder. Twelve of 13 patients with tumor beyond the temporal bone died.
Temporal bone resection for cancer.	Fifteen patients with cancer involving the temporal bone have been considered for radical surgical treatment by partial resection of the temporal bone during the past 12 years. All but one had undergone previous treatment by local surgery and/or irradiation. Two patients proved to be inoperable at surgical exploration. Three types of partial resection of the temporal bone and described to encompass disease involving the concha, the mastoid and squamous areas of the temporal bone, the ear canal, the middle ear, and the parotid gland. Closure of the surgical defect has been achieved in five cases using the residual pinna, in four cases with scalp flaps, and in five cases with a deltopectoral flap. Complications have been surprisingly few, with only one postoperative death. In one case communicating hydrocephalus persisted until death from residual disease many months later. Minor repair failure occurred in two patients. No attempt has been made to restore facial nerve function by grafting procedures. Long-term survival has been disappointing; however, it is considered that such radical surgery remains justified in selected cases for relief of the pain and disfigurement caused by chronic ulcerating neoplastic disease.
Electroneurography: preoperative facial nerve assessment for tumors of the temporal bone.	Tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle may be associated with subclinical facial nerve degeneration, despite clinically normal facial function. To determine if preoperative neurophysiologic testing might predict postoperative facial function after tumor surgery, preoperative facial electroneurography (ENoG) was performed in 82 patients with confirmed tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle. In patients with acoustic neuroma, preoperative ENoG amplitude reduction varied directly with tumor size. In addition, a statistically significant association between impaired postoperative facial function and acoustic neuroma size greater than 2.5 cm was found. However, preoperative ENoG amplitude reduction did not accurately predict postoperative facial function. These findings suggest that factors, such as the type and size of tumor, the microanatomic relationship between the facial nerve and the neoplasm, and/or desynchronization of the evoked motor-unit volley, may effect results obtained with ENoG in this setting.
Preservation of hearing in surgical removal of acoustic neuromas of the internal auditory canal and cerebellar pontine angle.	The surgical results in 69 patients with unilateral tumors of the cerebellopontine angle or internal auditory canal in whom total tumor removal was accomplished, and in whom an attempt was made to preserve hearing, are presented. The success rate of preservation of hearing and facial nerve function was correlated with the size of the tumor. Useful hearing, as defined by speech reception threshold no poorer than 70 dB and a discrimination score of at least 15%, was preserved in 73% of cases in which the tumor extension to the posterior fossa was no greater than 0.5 cm. In contrast, useful hearing was preserved in 22% of cases in which posterior fossa extension was greater than 2.5 cm. No significant correlation was found between preoperative evoked responses and success in preservation of hearing. The techniques and value of intraoperative monitoring of electrocochleogram (ECoG) and brain stem evoked responses are discussed. A theory of pathogenesis of intraoperative hearing loss, based on correlation of changes in evoked responses and simultaneous surgical events, is presented.
Meniscocondylar plication: a modified operation for surgical repositioning of the ectopic temporomandibular joint meniscus. Rationale and operative technique.	A historical review of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) surgical meniscal repositioning procedures is presented, and three operations that are currently used to manage this problem are compared and contrasted. Each operation produces iatrogenic deviations in intra-articular anatomy and retains the potential to create significant alterations in TMJ biomechanics. Meniscocondylar plication has been performed on 84 patients (89 joints) with arthrographically confirmed internal derangement of the TMJ. A 90.7% success rate was achieved. The operation is technically facile, surgically uncomplicated and clinically effective. It should rank as a justifiable and viable alternative to those operations that are presently being performed to treat patients with internal derangement of the TMJ.
Monobloc mobilization of the fronto-temporo-pterional bone flap. Technical note.	The authors described the monobloc fronto-temperal-pterional flap bone technique. They underline its usefulness in the treatment of aneurysms at an early stage on account of the highly tangential approach used.
Aneurysmal bone cysts of the base of the skull]	On the basis of two observation of aneurysmatic bone cysts in the region of the skull, the diagnostic and therapeutic problems of this clinical picture are discussed. The highest diagnostic value is offered by computed tomography. The operation with a total extirpation to be aimed at is recommended.
Postoperative cholesteatoma: are claims for the canal wall down technique justified?	To discover whether removal of the canal wall would reduce the incidence of postoperative cholesteatoma in tympanoplasty, the findings in staged, intact canal wall tympanoplasties were compared with those in staged, modified radical mastoidectomies with cavity obliteration and tympanoplasty. In all, cholesteatoma was considered totally removed at the first operation. The incidence of residual cholesteatoma was not significantly different in either group. It is concluded that staging in tympanoplasty for cholesteatoma is mandatory.
Instrumentation for styloidectomy.	Instrumentation that prevents injury to the structures of the tonsillar fossa during styloidectomy was presented. We think that by using this instrumentation, in particular the antral curet, the potential hazards are greatly reduced, if not eliminated.
The temporo-polar approach to basilar artery aneurysms with or without zygomatic arch translocation.	Since the publication of the temporo-polar approach to basilar artery aneurysms by Sano (1980 and 1987), various modifications of the approach were reported. The approach provides a better view and a wider operating field than the subtemporal or pterional ones. Usually the approach does not need temporary remove of the zygomatic arch. If however, a basilar tip aneurysm is located very high above the posterior clinoid, temporary removal of the zygomatic arch is necessary which is sutured back to its original position at the end of the operation.
Audiological results of the bone-anchored hearing aid HC200: multicenter results.	Sixty-two patients with conductive or mixed hearing loss (average bone conduction threshold at 0.5, 1, and 2 kHz ranged from 1 to 44 dB hearing level) were fitted with a bone-anchored hearing aid (BAHA type HC200). Previously, 52 of them had used a conventional bone conduction hearing aid (CBHA) and 10 of them an air conduction hearing aid (ACHA). Audiological tests were conducted to compare the patients' performance with the BAHA to that with their previous conventional hearing aid. In the speech recognition in quiet test, only 5 patients in the CBHA group improved significantly: the majority had 100% scores with both hearing aids. In the speech recognition in noise test, 28 patients improved significantly. The mean improvement in the signal to noise ratio (S/N) in the CBHA group was -2.3 +/- 2.4 dB. That none of the patients in the CBHA group performed worse with the BAHA led us to the conclusion that the BAHA is superior to the CBHA. None of the patients in the ACHA group achieved a better speech recognition in quiet score using the BAHA. On average, there was no significant improvement in the S/N ratio in the ACHA group, although in 6 patients the S/N ratio improved significantly, and in 1 patient it worsened significantly. From the whole group, the performance of only 2 patients, both in the ACHA group, was significantly worse with the BAHA on one of the speech recognition tests.
Myringoplasty and tympanoplasty--results related to training and experience.	The results of surgery in a series of 452 ears having either myringoplasty (281 ears) or tympanoplasty (171 ears) were studied in relation to the experience of the surgeons. The trainees received an annual course in temporal bone dissection and were given daily surgical instruction in the operating theatre. The 142 ears operated by them showed less disease than those operated upon by the programme chairman (114 ears) and by the faculty (196 ears). The performance of the trainees was safe, and as to healed tympanic membrane and hearing results all studied parameters were statistically equal to those of the faculty. Repair of anterior perforations proved to be the most difficult and the overall results of both the faculty and trainees left place for improvement. On-line recording of surgical data and annual evaluation of an individual surgeon's results is suggested as a necessary means for continuous post-graduate training.
Stability measurements of craniofacial implants by means of resonance frequency analysis. A clinical pilot study.	Nineteen patients previously treated with 52 implants for anchorage of craniofacial prostheses were subjected to implant stability measurements by means of resonance frequency analysis (RFA), six months to 15 years after implant placement. The resonance frequency (RF) of a transducer attached to the implant abutment was measured by using a frequency response analyser, a personal computer (PC) and dedicated software. Statistically significant higher RF values were seen for implants in the temporal bone as compared to implants in the nose and periorbital regions. There was a positive correlation with time since implant placement for the period from six months up to seven years. It was concluded that the preliminary results suggest that implant stability increases with time and that implants in temporal bone are more stable than implants in the bone in the nose and periorbital regions, probably reflecting differences in bone density.
Basal cell carcinoma of the conchal bowl: interdisciplinary approach to treatment.	The auricle is the site of only 6% of cutaneous neoplasms, but represents an area of high risk for recurrence. The purpose of this work is to present a series of patients with basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of the conchal bowl, and a review of the literature concerning the management of such patients, and to propose an algorithm for use in the treatment of such cases.
Synovial chondromatosis of the temporomandibular joint with intracranial extension.	An unusual case of synovial chondromatosis of the temporomandibular joint with intracranial extension, which resulted in complete dehiscence of the floor of the middle cranial fossa, is reported. An overview of the current literature and a discussion of the diagnosis and surgical management of synovial chondromatosis are presented.
