New technique of side-to-end hypoglossal-facial nerve attachment with translocation of the infratemporal facial nerve.	The goal of this study was to assess the clinical results of hypoglossal-facial nerve attachment (HFA), which was primarily performed in patients following excision of tumors of the cerebellopontine angle. In six of the patients a new side-to-end procedure was used.
Fallopian canal dehiscences: a survey of clinical and anatomical findings.	This survey investigates fallopian canal dehiscences in order to assess the risk of encountering an unprotected facial nerve during routine ear surgery. In a prospective non-randomized study, the intraoperative appearance of the facial canal in 357 routine ear operations was compared with 300 temporal bone specimens from 150 autopsies. Intraoperatively, a dehiscence was detected in 6.4% (23/357) of the operations, most frequently at the oval niche region (16/23 cases). The incidence increased with the number of operations (P<0.0002). Cholesteatoma surgery had the highest relative risk (RR 4.6) of exposing an unprotected facial nerve. Postoperatively, no persistent facial paralysis was observed. In four of five cases with a transient facial palsy due to local anesthetics, a bony dehiscence could be found. The anatomical study revealed fallopian canal dehiscences in 29.3% (44/150) of the autopsies. One-third (15/44) of the individuals affected displayed bilateral findings, thus resulting in 19.7% (59/300) of temporal bones affected. A total of 17/59 bones showed microdehiscences, and most (55/59) were located at the oval niche. The actual prevalence of fallopian canal dehiscences is significantly higher than intraoperative findings suggest. The oval niche is the most affected region. High-resolution computed tomography is of diagnostic value only in selected cases. Facial paralysis following local anesthesia is the most significant clinical sign. Vigilance in acute facial palsy after local anesthetics and in cholesteatoma surgery and adequate intraoperative exposure help to prevent iatrogenic injury of the uncovered nerve. In unclear cases, nerve monitoring can facilitate a safe outcome.
Variations in the anatomy of the auriculotemporal nerve.	The common representation of the auriculotemporal nerve is either that of a single posterior branch of the mandibular nerve or of two roots that envelope the middle meningeal artery. Our observation in the anatomy of the auriculotemporal nerve on 32 dissections (16 cadaveric heads) of the infratemporal fossa included: one specimen with four roots (3.1%), three specimens with three roots (9.4%), 12 specimens with two roots (37.5%), and 16 specimens with one root (50%). Furthermore, a connecting nerve branch was observed between auriculotemporal and inferior alveolar nerves in four specimens, and in another auriculotemporal nerve case, between the upper and lower roots. In the cadaver of a 70-year-old male, a four-rooted auriculotemporal nerve variation was found. These four branches lay to the posterior, combined at the posterosuperior of the maxillary and superficial temporal arteries and formed a ganglion-like knot. From this knot, four branches stemmed and ran to the temporomandibular joint, external acoustic meatus, zygoma, and parotid gland. The knot was larger and thicker than expected; thus, it was removed and stained with haematoxylin-eosin (H&E) and S100 for histological studies. This structure was not a true ganglion but a structure formed by fusion of nerve fibers.
New surgical approach for migraine.	To introduce a new procedure for the treatment of intractable cases of migraine.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtype mRNAs in the human and rat vestibular periphery.	The expression of the five muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) subtypes (m1-m5) in the vestibular end-organs and in the primary afferent vestibular ganglia of the human and rat was studied using RT-PCR from the two tissue populations from both species. In the human, although all five mAChR subtypes were expressed in brain, only the m1, m2, and m5 mAChR subtypes were amplified from both the vestibular ganglia and the vestibular end-organs, while in the rat, all five mAChR subtypes were expressed. These data suggest that the efferent cholinergic axo-dendritic and axo-somatic synapses have a muscarinic component and that there are pharmacologic implications for patients with vestibular dysfunction.
