The posterior temporal artery as the recipient in superficial temporal artery to posterior cerebral artery bypass. Technical note.	While superficial temporal artery (STA) to superior cerebellar artery (SCA) or STA to posterior cerebral artery (PCA) anastomosis has been used for rostral brain stem ischemia, it is reported not infrequently to be associated with serious complications. Although the inferior temporal artery has been proposed as a possible recipient artery for the STA, its advantage is not yet widely recognized.
Prefabricated galeal flap based on superficial temporal and posterior auricular vessels.	Scalp layers are widely used in reconstructive procedures. The authors used prefabricated galeal flaps based on the superficial temporal or postauricular vessels for ear, cheek, mandible, and cranium reconstructions in three cases. In case 1, synchronous beard and ear reconstructions were accomplished by using the temporoparietal and retroauricular flaps. In case 2, a buccomandibular defect was reconstructed by transposing the supra-auricular and retroauricular galea with prefabricated bone and skin. In case 3, an epidural hematoma in the left frontoparietal area was evacuated after a circular craniectomy. The harvested bone was not put back on the defect area but buried between the periosteal and galeal layers because of brain edema. These layers were raised as an osteogaleoperiosteal flap and transposed onto the defect area after 7 weeks. When used with a prefabrication method, scalp layers offer versatile options for repairing composite defects of the head region. A galeal flap based on the posterior auricular vessels is practical and reliable in reconstructive procedures. The authors suggest that this flap is an option in cases in which the temporoparietal fascia artery or the superficial temporal artery is not available. Prefabrication of the harvested cranial bone inside the adjacent tissues offers several advantages in that a viable bone is provided at the end of the procedure, intervention at a distant area is avoided, the graft is placed on osteogenic tissue (periosteum) that is also transposed onto the defect, and sophisticated procedures such as microsurgical techniques are not needed.
Cerebral blood flow and metabolism following superficial temporal artery to superior cerebellar artery bypass for vertebrobasilar occlusive disease.	In order to clarify the effectiveness of extracranial-intracranial bypass operations in patients with vertebrobasilar occlusive disease, the authors used positron emission tomography to investigate the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolism of eight patients undergoing superficial temporal artery (STA)-superior cerebellar artery (SCA) bypass procedures. In the preoperative studies, CBF in the region of the posterior fossa was low and the oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) was high, the so-called "misery perfusion syndrome." Such changes were evident in both the posterior circulation and the anterior circulation regions. Postoperatively, there was a significant increase in CBF, a significant decrease in the OEF not only in the region of posterior circulation but also over the entire brain, and a disappearance of the uncoupling between CBF and oxygen metabolism. The STA-SCA bypass procedure is effective in improving CBF and metabolism in patients with vertebrobasilar occlusive disease.
Scalp replantation by arterialised venous network flow-through.	A successful clinical case of scalp replantation is presented where a suitable artery could not be identified in the amputated part. Reperfusion of the flap was achieved by an arteriovenous inflow anastomosis and a conventional venous anastomosis for drainage. The aesthetic and physiological success of this case suggests that arteriovenous scalp replantation is a potential avenue for treatment where arterio-arterial repair is not possible. The possible explanation for the success in this patient is the paucity of valves that exist in the venous network of the scalp and forehead, noted in our previous anatomical studies. Knowledge of the replanted tissue venous architecture provides an anatomical basis to understand the potential limitations of arteriovenous replantation.
Long-term follow-up study after extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery for anterior circulation ischemia in childhood moyamoya disease.	Between May, 1974, and March, 1991, 104 patients with moyamoya disease, all under 16 years old at the time of first surgery, underwent superficial temporal-to-middle cerebral artery anastomosis and/or encephalomyosynangiosis. The mean follow-up period was 9.6 years (range 4.8 to 16.0 years). Hemiplegia was the most frequent symptom before the first operation. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA's) were noted in 57 patients and minor stroke with hemiplegia in 44. The most frequent type of cortical dysfunction was aphasia (21 cases). Postoperatively, the incidence of TIA's and/or completed stroke with motor weakness of the extremities was markedly decreased, but visual disturbance progressed and major or minor stroke with visual disturbance was found in two cases. In patients under the age of 3 years, a major stroke prior to surgery resulted in a poor outcome in 36% of cases. Preoperative major stroke in patients between the ages of 3 and 7 years was less frequent, and poor outcomes were seen in 17% of this group. There were no major preoperative strokes in patients with surgery after the age of 7 years, and no poor outcomes were recorded in this group. A major preoperative stroke prior to surgery had adverse impact on the ultimate patient intelligence quotient (IQ) following surgery. All patients operated on after the age of 7 years had a normal or borderline IQ at follow-up examination.
New surgical approach for migraine.	To introduce a new procedure for the treatment of intractable cases of migraine.
Aesthetic issues in neurosurgery: a protocol to improve cosmetic outcome in cranial surgery.	Nowadays, surgical interventions must treat with care the aesthetic impact on the patient, even when a malignant pathology or an patient's advanced age could give the aesthetic issue lower priority. The cranio-facial area is probably the most important anatomical region with regard to the harmony of the human body. Consequently, a step-by-step procedure, applicable regardless of the site and the nature of the lesion, is advisable to minimize the aesthetic impact. We prospectively analyzed 65 patients during a period of 2 years. At 1-year follow-up, all patients were invited to undergo a 3D-multislice CT and to complete a questionnaire with a subjective rating scale about aesthetic impact. The 3D-multislice CT scan didn't show dislocations, depressions or gaps of the bone flap. Nevertheless, five patients complained of some degree of aesthetic injury, or reported a psychological suffering from the aesthetic consequences of surgery. As a control group, we retrospectively reviewed 223 patients. The authors describe their surgical protocol and discuss it in the light of the results of their series.
Single-stage operation for a giant haemangiopericytoma following intracranial feeder embolization.	Meningeal haemangiopericytomas (HPC) are malignant intracranial neoplasms that commonly recur and metastasize. Large size at diagnosis, abundant intracranial feeders and the risk of intraoperative bleeding can make them difficult to completely remove in one operation. We report here a rare case of a giant HPC which was treated successfully using a one-stage operation following superselective intracranial feeder occlusion. A 30-year-old man presented with a left middle cranial fossa tumour extending to the left temporal lobe and cerebellar tentorium. Angiography revealed supply from a dilated left posterior temporal artery branching from the posterior cerebral artery. The tumour was totally removed in a single-stage excision after embolization of the intracranial major feeding artery. The present case suggests the usefulness of preoperative embolization for HPC, particularly of intracranial feeders, to achieve total resection safely in a single operation.
Seizure following superficial temporal-middle cerebral artery anastomosis in patients with moyamoya disease: possible contribution of postoperative cerebral hyperperfusion]	Surgical revascularization for moyamoya disease prevents cerebral ischemic attacks by improving cerebral blood flow (CBF). Seizure is known as a rare complication after revascularization for moyamoya disease, although its underlying mechanism is undetermined. We investigated the relationship between seizure attack and postoperative alteration in CBF in patients with moyamoya disease. CBF was routinely measured by N-isopropyl-p-[123I] iodpamphetamine (123I-IMP-SPECT) 1 and 7 days after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) anastomosis on 64 sides of the 44 consecutive patients (male:female = 13:31, 2-62 years old) with moyamoya disease. Three patients (male:female = 1:2, 40-55 years old) suffered from seizure attack at 1 to 10 days after surgery. Two of the three patients manifested as seizures at 8-10 days after surgery and presented transient neurologic deteriolation before seizure. Postoperative SPECT revealed significant increase in CBF at the sites of the anastomosis in all three patients. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging showed no ischemic changes, and magnetic resonance angiography showed the apparently patent STA-MCA anastomosis as thick high signal intensity sign in all three patients. The anatomical location and the temporal profile of hyperperfusion were completely in accordance with the focus of seizure attack. Intensive blood pressure control and the use of antiepileptic agents were instituted. The neurologic deficits were resolved and no seizure attack recurred in three patients. Seizure following STA-MCA anastomosis can be caused by hyperperfusion in patients with moyamoya disease. When seizure attacks occur, routine CBF measurement is recommended to differentiate hyperperfusion and ischemia, since the treatments for these conditions are contradictory.
Ischemic stroke due to dissection of the middle cerebral artery treated by superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis--case report.	A 62-year-old man presented with dissection of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) manifesting as mild headache, right hemiparesis, and slurred speech. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR angiography revealed fresh infarction in the right basal ganglia, and severe stenosis and dilatation of the right MCA. Digital subtraction angiography approximately 24 hours after admission revealed a linear contrast defect indicating an intimal flap of the M(1) segment. The diagnosis was dissection of the MCA. His neurological deficits improved gradually. Although he was neurologically stable, diffusion-weighted MR imaging revealed enlarging infarct size over the right MCA territory, and the right M(1) segment had progressive stenosis. Superficial temporal artery (STA)-MCA anastomosis was performed on the 26th day. Follow-up angiography showed good patency of the STA-MCA anastomosis, repair of the dissection of the M(1) segment, and improvement of the flow in the MCA. The patient was discharged from our hospital with no neurological deficits. Although the dissection in this case was spontaneously repaired, STA-MCA anastomosis was useful to get through a critical time. If the stenosis shows further progression or the infarction size enlarges, STA-MCA anastomosis may be effective.
Anesthetic management of a patient with congenital myopathy complicated with severely impaired pulmonary function]	A 17-year-old man, who had received a diagnosis of congenital myopathy, was scheduled for superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery anastomosis procedure. Preoperative respiratory examinations showed the breathing capacity of 450 ml because of a scoilosis, deformity of a thorax and severe muscular atrophy. Anesthesia was maintained with propofol, fentanyl, remifentanil and vecuronium to avoid malignant hyperthermia (MH). Endotracheal intubation was performed with a gum elastic bougie for difficult airway management (DAM). After intubation, we checked the positioning of the tracheal tube by a chest X ray and bronchofiber findings. During perioperative period, no symptom of MH and respiratory dysfunction was noticed. In the anesthesia for patients with congenital myopathy, deterioration of respiratoy function, prevention for MH, and possibility of DAM should be considered.
Combined surgical and endovascular treatment of complex cerebrovascular diseases in the hybrid operating room.	Although most neurovascular diseases can be treated either by microsurgical or endovascular means, a subset of patients may require a combined approach. Patient transfer from the operating room (OR) to the angiosuite has been a fundamental drawback of this type of approach.
Posterior circulation hyperperfusion syndrome after superficial temporal artery-superior cerebellar artery bypass for vertebral artery dissection.	A 68-year-old man was diagnosed with infarction of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata caused by vertebral artery dissection manifesting as severe stenosis with poor collateral flow. He underwent superficial temporal artery (STA)-superior cerebellar artery (SCA) bypass for the prevention of fatal brain stem infarction. He had consciousness disturbance 2 days postoperatively. Single-photon emission computed tomography revealed hyperperfusion in the posterior circulation. His consciousness improved as hyperperfusion improved. We report the first case of posterior circulation hyperperfusion syndrome after STA-SCA bypass and provide a review of the relevant literature.
Revascularization and aneurysm surgery: techniques, indications, and outcomes in the endovascular era.	Given advances in endovascular technique, the indications for revascularization in aneurysm surgery have declined.
Target-controlled infusion technique with indocyanine green videoangiography for radial artery graft.	To understand the relationship between the parent artery and its distal arteries, blood vessels running through the subarachnoid space need to be extensively dissected, which is time-consuming. We examined the efficacy of temporary clipping with the indocyanine green (ICG) technique (target-controlled infusion (TCI) technique), in which the parent artery is occluded using a temporary clip, and ICGV (videoangiography) is performed to clarify the relationship between the distal M4 and proximal M2.
Temporal arterial ligation in head and neck surgery with absorbable sutures.	Temporary arterial ligation is a useful concept in head and neck surgery for situations dealing with potential recurrent hemorrhage or recurrent vascular neoplasms. In this study, several absorbable sutures, including plain gut, chromic gut, and polyglycolic acid were used to ligate the common carotid artery in dogs. Arterial patency was followed by serial selective arteriograms. Only polyglycolic acid sutures proved to be a reliable material to achieve transient arterial occlusion.
Microvascular anastomosis for cerebral ischemia in 19 patients: a preliminary report.	The general principles of bypass surgery as they affect the cerebral circulation are reviewed. The preliminary results of an extracranial intracranial bypass operation performed on a group of 19 patients suffering from cerebral ischemia are presented. The results of the surgery compare favorably with those published in the literature.
Effect of the width of anastomosis between extra- and intracranial arteries on its patency in the light of the flow continuity law and Bernoulli's law]	On the ground of the results obtained in microneurosurgical treatment of 60 patients with cerebral ischaemia the author analysed the factors affecting the patency of the anastomosis not connected directly with the surgical techniques. The analysis showed the significance of anastomosis width. A relatively wide anastomosis even in cases with correctly performed operation is not contributing to maintenance of patency. This may be explained, in the opinion of the author, by the relationship between the velocity of fluid flow, vessel cross-section area and value of the static pressure calculated from the stream continuity equation and Bernoulli's law.
Failure of extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass in acute middle cerebral artery occlusion: case report.	Extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass procedures provide important augmentation of collateral circulation to cortical areas rendered potentially ischemic by therapeutic occlusion of major branches of the circle of Willis. Although the case studies reported to date in general reflect positively on this use of the bypass procedure, this report of a patient who failed to tolerate acute middle cerebral artery occlusion despite the presence of a patent superficial temporal-middle cerebral artery branch anastomosis points up several of the practical and theoretical limitations of this therapeutic approach. Certain modifications of the timing of the bypass procedure, the selection of donor and recipient arteries, and the mechanics of intracranial arterial occlusion may allow a wider application of extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass in this therapeutic setting.
Resolution of venous stasis retinopathy after carotid artery bypass surgery.	Venous stasis retinopathy associated with carotid occlusive disease has been found to diminish or even disappear after carotid artery bypass surgery (superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery anastomosis). We present photographic documentation of these changes and subsequent resolution of the retinopathy in a patient who had bypass surgery. This resolution reflects the increased perfusion to the retina and to the cerebral hemisphere.
Pial synangiosis for moyamoya syndrome in children.	The authors describe a modification of the encephalo-duro-arterio-synangiosis (EDAS) surgical technique for patients with moyamoya syndrome in which the arachnoid is widely opened over the exposed brain and the donor superficial temporal artery adventitia is sutured directly to the pia with 10-O nylon suture ('pial synangiosis'). The procedure has been performed in 34 patients over a 10-year period, with follow-up arteriograms 1 year following the procedure demonstrating markedly enhanced middle cerebral artery flow through the surgical site. Operative morbidity has been limited to two postoperative strokes, both in patients who were neurologically unstable preoperatively; and the clinical stability of the operated patients has thus far been excellent.
The ocular aspects of carotid artery bypass surgery.	A new neurosurgical procedure, anastomosis of the superficial temporal artery to the middle cerebral artery, is being performed with increasing frequency. Over a 7-year period (1971 through 1977), 121 patients have undergone this operation in our institution. Ophthalmodynamometry may be of great help in identifying occlusion of an internal carotid artery. Progressing venous stasis retinopathy and ischemic orbital pain are believed to be indications for bypass surgery of the carotid artery.
Temporal artery-based forehead flap.	The historical development of the forehead flap is reviewed, and an operative experience using delayed and nondelayed techniques in 30 cases is described. The reliability of the forehead flap is evaluated with regard to patient morbidity and correction of deformity and dysfunction in such sites as the cheek, lip, corner of the mouth, floor of the mouth, tongue, pharyngeal wall, and tonsil. Analyses include length of hospital stay and complications, as well as the relationship of these factors to the methods employed in the reconstructive processes. The advantages and disadvantages of the various techniques are illustrated using individual cases.
Entire scalp replantation: case report and review of the literature.	A case of successful replantation of a totally avulsed scalp in a 40-year-old woman is presented. During a 19-hr surgical procedure, bilateral superficial temporal arteries and veins were anastomosed. The postoperative course was uneventful, except for partial necrosis of the distal end of the avulsed flap, i.e., the occipital region. Since the first successful scalp replantation using microsurgical technique was reported in 1976, the authors have found at least 32 subsequently reported cases. Of these, there were 22 cases of entire scalp avulsion (more than 80 percent of the scalp), including 15 females and seven males. A summary of these cases is included. From analysis of the reported cases of entire scalp avulsion, the keys to success in scalp replantation are considered to be the adequate selection of vessels for repair and the use of vein grafts, if necessary.
The ocular aspects of bypass surgery of the carotid artery.	A new neurosurgical procedure, anastomosis of the superficial temporal artery to the middle cerebral artery, is being performed with increasing frequency. Over a 7-year period (1971 through 1977), 121 patients have undergone this operation in our institution. Ophthalmodynamometry may be of great help in identifying occlusion of an internal carotid artery. Progressing venous stasis retinopathy and ischemic orbital pain are believed to be indications for bypass surgery of the carotid artery.
Microsurgical cerebral revascularization]	Techniques of microsurgical revascularization are reviewed. A series of 5 cases, submitted to 6 anastomosis of the superficial temporal artery is presented.
