Dynamic splinting after extensor tendon repair in zones V to VII.	This retrospective study evaluates a dynamic active motion protocol for extensor tendon repairs in zones V to VII. Fifty-eight patients with 87 extensor tendon injuries were examined. Using Geldmacher's and Kleinert and Verdan's evaluation systems, the results were graded as "excellent" and "good" in more than 94%, and as "satisfactory" in the remainder. The need for secondary tenolysis was low (6%), and no other surgical complication occurred.
Role of extracellular matrix in adaptation of tendon and skeletal muscle to mechanical loading.	The extracellular matrix (ECM), and especially the connective tissue with its collagen, links tissues of the body together and plays an important role in the force transmission and tissue structure maintenance especially in tendons, ligaments, bone, and muscle. The ECM turnover is influenced by physical activity, and both collagen synthesis and degrading metalloprotease enzymes increase with mechanical loading. Both transcription and posttranslational modifications, as well as local and systemic release of growth factors, are enhanced following exercise. For tendons, metabolic activity, circulatory responses, and collagen turnover are demonstrated to be more pronounced in humans than hitherto thought. Conversely, inactivity markedly decreases collagen turnover in both tendon and muscle. Chronic loading in the form of physical training leads both to increased collagen turnover as well as, dependent on the type of collagen in question, some degree of net collagen synthesis. These changes will modify the mechanical properties and the viscoelastic characteristics of the tissue, decrease its stress, and likely make it more load resistant. Cross-linking in connective tissue involves an intimate, enzymatical interplay between collagen synthesis and ECM proteoglycan components during growth and maturation and influences the collagen-derived functional properties of the tissue. With aging, glycation contributes to additional cross-linking which modifies tissue stiffness. Physiological signaling pathways from mechanical loading to changes in ECM most likely involve feedback signaling that results in rapid alterations in the mechanical properties of the ECM. In developing skeletal muscle, an important interplay between muscle cells and the ECM is present, and some evidence from adult human muscle suggests common signaling pathways to stimulate contractile and ECM components. Unaccostumed overloading responses suggest an important role of ECM in the adaptation of myofibrillar structures in adult muscle. Development of overuse injury in tendons involve morphological and biochemical changes including altered collagen typing and fibril size, hypervascularization zones, accumulation of nociceptive substances, and impaired collagen degradation activity. Counteracting these phenomena requires adjusted loading rather than absence of loading in the form of immobilization. Full understanding of these physiological processes will provide the physiological basis for understanding of tissue overloading and injury seen in both tendons and muscle with repetitive work and leisure time physical activity.
Supraspinatus tendon organizational and mechanical properties in a chronic rotator cuff tear animal model.	Rotator cuff tears of the shoulder are a common cause of pain and disability. The successful repair of rotator cuff tendon tears depends on the time from onset of injury to the time of surgical repair. However, the effect of time from injury to repair remains poorly understood. A rat model was used to investigate the supraspinatus tendon organizational and mechanical property changes that occur with time post-injury to understand the natural injury response in the absence of repair. It was hypothesized that increased time post-injury would result in increased detrimental changes to tendon organizational and mechanical properties. Tendons were detached at the insertion on the humerus without repair and the quantitative organizational and mechanical properties were analyzed at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 weeks post-detachment. Tendon detachment resulted in a dramatic decrease in mechanical properties initially followed by a progressive increase with time. The quantitative collagen fiber orientation results provided corroborating support to the mechanical property data. Based on similarities in histology and mechanical properties to rotator cuff tears in humans, the animal model presented here is promising for future investigations of the tendon's natural injury response in the absence of repair.
Long-term results of early primary repair of flexor pollicis longus tendon injuries]	We evaluated the long-term results of early primary repair of flexor pollicis longus (FPL) tendon injuries with the modified Kessler method and circumferential sutures.
Single-stage flexor tendoplasty in the treatment of flexor tendon injuries]	We evaluated tendon reconstruction with one-stage tendon grafting in flexor tendon injuries in which primary repair was not considered because of delay in treatment or of inappropriate circumstances on the part of the wound and the patient.
Spontaneous healing process of a supraspinatus tendon tear in rabbits.	The rotator cuff has a characteristic structure, in that one surface faces articular cartilage and another faces bursa. This structure may produce differences in the healing process between the rotator cuff and other tendons. We investigated the spontaneous healing process of a surgically created supraspinatus tendon tear in rabbits.
Sonography in wrist tendon pathology.	Wrist tendons may be affected by a variety of pathologic conditions, including those caused by trauma and overuse, inflammatory and metabolic disorders, or infection. Sonography is a very sensitive means of detecting tendinous pathology because of its spatial resolution and its comparative and dynamic capabilities. Its wide availability makes it the preferred first-line imaging modality in the case of wrist pain. This article reviews the pathologic conditions that may involve the wrist and their sonographic appearances.
Patellar tendinosis as an adaptive process: a new hypothesis.	Patellar tendinosis (PT), or "jumper's knee" is a common condition in athletes participating in jumping sports, and is characterised by proximal patellar tendon pain and focal tenderness to palpation. Hypoechoic lesions observed in the proximal patellar tendon associated with the tendinosis are typically described as being a result of degenerative change or "failed healing". We propose a new model for the development of the hypoechoic lesion observed in PT, in which the aetiology is an adaptive response to differential forces within the tendon.
Mechanism of cell death in inflamed superficial digital flexor tendon in the horse.	The aim of the present study was to clarify the presence and determine the role of apoptosis in the degenerative process of the superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT) in the horse. Samples were obtained from normal and inflamed SDFTs of horses. To detect apoptosis and to identify apoptotic cells, the samples were subjected to immunohistochemical labelling and Western blot analysis. Although a large number of cells in degenerate areas showed positive reactions with caspase-3 and single stranded DNA antibodies, cells in normal tendon samples showed very weak reactions. Excessive apoptosis was confirmed by the results of Western blot analysis, which showed a significant increase in activated caspase-3 protein in the inflamed SDFTs, suggesting that apoptosis occurred in the tendinocytes via a caspase-3-dependent pathway. This is the first report of excessive apoptosis in inflamed SDFT of the horse. The results indicate that apoptosis may play an important role in the process of degeneration of the tendon as well as other tissues.
Hyaluronic acid diminishes the resistance to excursion after flexor tendon repair: an in vitro biomechanical study.	Adhesion between the tendon and tendon sheath after primary flexor tendon repair is seen frequently, and postoperative finger function is occasionally unsatisfactory. A reduction of the friction may facilitate tendon mobilization, which in turn may reduce the risk of the adhesion and restriction of range of motion. We considered the possibility of utilizing the hyaluronic acid (HA) as a lubricant. To evaluate the effect of HA, the gliding resistance between the canine flexor digitorum profundus tendon repaired by a modified Kessler suture technique with running epitendinous suture and the annular pulley located on the proximal phalanx (corresponding to the A2 pulley in humans) was evaluated and compared before and after administration of HA. The HA solution measurement groups were identified as follows; intact tendon as a control; repaired tendon; tendon soaked in 0.1, 1, and 10 mg/ml HA. The resistance increased after repairing, then it decreased after soaking in 10 mg/ml HA solution. The results of this study revealed that HA diminishes the excursion resistance after flexor tendon repair. We believe that some style of administration of the HA might reduce the excursion resistance and prevent adhesion until the synovial surface is fully developed.
Anterior tibial tendon abnormalities: MR imaging findings.	To retrospectively evaluate the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings of anterior tibial tendon (ATT) abnormalities.
Partial flexor tendon injuries: to repair or not.	The correct management of partially divided flexor tendon injuries is still in dispute. This study compares the results of repair with non-repair in zone 2 injuries. We conclude that tendons divided by 60% or less in cross-sectional area should not be repaired.
Quadriceps tendon ruptures: evaluation and treatment]	We evaluated the patients who underwent surgical repair for rupture of the quadriceps tendon.
Infraspinatus delamination does not affect supraspinatus tear repair.	Supraspinatus full-thickness tears with associated infraspinatus delamination are a frequent lesion, although the results of repair have not been reported. We retrospectively identified 35 patients treated for this cuff lesion among 378 open repaired full-thickness cuff tears. The aim of the study was to assess the subjective, objective, and anatomic outcomes of a subset of patients with supraspinatus tears involving delamination of the whole infraspinatus tendon. Thirty of the 35 patients were reviewed with magnetic resonance imaging at a minimum followup of 2 years (mean, 3.5 years; range, 2-6.5 years). The mean nonweighted Constant-Murley score at followup was 80/100 points, with an average gain of 17 points. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed all supraspinatus tendons but two were continuous. We observed no tear of the infraspinatus tendon, although a persistent delamination was present in 11 cases. One half of the patients had minor weakness in external rotation. One third of the infraspinatus muscles had minor fatty infiltration. Conservation of the infraspinatus tendon after closing the delamination did not seem to compromise the outcome of the supraspinatus repair. Avoiding resection of the infraspinatus delamination and treatment with simple curettage and closure yields satisfactory midterm functional and anatomic results.
The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of glenohumeral anatomic measurements on MR imaging with supraspinatus tendon tears. The study was approved by the institutional review board and informed consent was obtained from each subject. Forty-two patients (mean age 55.5 years; age range 40-73 years) with supraspinatus tendon tears and 50 asymptomatic shoulders of 32 controls (mean age 43 years; age range 17-69 years) without rotator cuff tears were included. The acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles were measured on coronal images, the glenoid and humeral head version as well as the bicipital-humeral distance on axial images. Significant differences were found between the patients and controls for both glenoid version and bicipital-humeral distance, which are considered to influence the distribution of forces placed on the cuff (p < 0.05). The patients had a decreased glenoid version by an average of 2.3 degrees (-7.1 +/- 7.8 degrees vs. -4.8 +/- 5.6 degrees), and a decreased bicipital-humeral distance by an average of 2.7 mm (12.1 +/- 3.7 mm vs. 14.8 +/- 4.1 mm). No significant differences were found between these groups for humeral head version and the acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles, which might contribute to extrinsic impingement by narrowing the supraspinatus tendon outlet. Differences in glenoid and humeral version may be responsible for RC tears by changing the orientation of the rotator cuff and thus increasing shearing stress.
Posteromedial corner injuries of the knee.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) depicts in exquisite detail the supporting structures of the posteromedial corner of the knee. This musculoligamentous unit plays a central role as a dynamic stabilizer of the knee joint and the recognition of injury to the posteromedial corner carries important implications in terms of management and prognosis, most particularly in the anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee. This article provides a resumé of the functional anatomy of the posteromedial corner of the knee as seen with MRI and follows with a review of the MRI appearances of injury to the posteromedial corner.
Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement.	To assess the relationship between the severity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears and the development of subcoracoid impingement.
Intrinsic healing of the laceration site in human superficialis flexor tendons in vitro.	The intrinsic capability of the human superficialis flexor tendon to heal a reapproximated laceration site in vitro was examined. Segments of lacerated and sutured human superficialis flexor tendons from zone II were cultured for two, four, or eight weeks in vitro and analyzed by use of light and electron microscopy. We noted a specific pattern of intrinsic healing at the repair site during the incubation period. After two weeks, the cells of the epitenon from both tendon stumps proliferated and appeared to migrate into the repair site. Elongated cells of the thickened epitenon bridged the laceration and synthesized new collagen fibers. By eight weeks, a smooth contiguous tendon surface was restored and the internal collagen bundles were brought into intimate contact. The fibroblasts bridging the laceration, both in the epitenon and centrally in the repair site, were oriented perpendicular to the cut surfaces. The cells in the repair site were active in protein synthesis, and new collagen fibers were present. No cellular necrosis was observed in the internal repair site. Our results indicate that human superficialis tendons possess an intrinsic capacity to heal with diffusion and without dependence on extratendinous cells or on adhesions.
Acquired flatfoot secondary to tibialis posterior dysfunction: biomechanical aspects.	The biomechanical implications of the normally-functioning tibialis posterior muscle and tendon unit, pathomechanics of its dysfunction, and its diagnosis are presented. The interaction of the tibialis posterior tendon with the rearfoot ligamentous system is discussed. An anatomic consideration of the glenoidal ligaments of the talonavicular joint new to the English literature is presented. A plan for staging the disease of tibialis posterior dysfunction and classifying its etiology is considered to be a prerequisite for proper treatment.
Characterization of differential properties of rabbit tendon stem cells and tenocytes.	Tendons are traditionally thought to consist of tenocytes only, the resident cells of tendons; however, a recent study has demonstrated that human and mouse tendons also contain stem cells, referred to as tendon stem/progenitor cells (TSCs). However, the differential properties of TSCs and tenocytes remain largely undefined. This study aims to characterize the properties of these tendon cells derived from rabbits.
A review of tendon injury: why is the equine superficial digital flexor tendon most at risk?	Tendon injury is one of the most common causes of wastage in the performance horse; the majority of tendon injuries occur to the superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT) whereas few occur to the common digital extensor tendon. This review outlines the epidemiology and aetiology of equine tendon injury, reviews the different functions of the tendons in the equine forelimb and suggests possible reasons for the high rate of failure of the SDFT. An understanding of the mechanisms leading to matrix degeneration and subsequent tendon gross failure is the key to developing appropriate treatment and preventative measures.
Collagen fibril morphometry in transected rat extensor tendons.	The regenerative potential of completely transected tendon has been assessed in rat extensor tendon. Collagen fibril diameter distributions were calculated within the gap region of the healing tissue at 10, 30, 60, 120 and 240 days postoperatively. At each age the distribution was found to be unimodal with no indication of any return of bimodality. These results suggest that mechanical stimuli may be a controlling factor in determining fibril diameters and that mature tendon may be unable to reproduce a bimodal collagen fibril diameter distribution subsequent to trauma.
Rupture of the long head biceps tendon treated with tenodesis to the coracoid process. Results at more than 30 years.	We evaluated patients at very long term with rupture of the long head biceps tendon (LHBT) in whom the tendon stump had been sutured to the coracoid tip (Gilcreest technique). Our aim was to determine the natural history of shoulders deprived of the LHBT and to assess the validity of the surgical technique. Between 1969 and 1981, 30 patients with rupture of the LHBT and no evidence of cuff tear underwent the Gilcreest operation. The mean age of the patients was 32 years (range, 20-49). Six of them were professional gymnasts. The 28 patients that could be traced were evaluated a mean of 31 years after operation. The mean Constant score (CS) was 74 in the entire group, and 86 in 22. The latter patients complained occasionally of mild shoulder pain. The remaining six patients had a mean CS of 56 (range, 40-81). Of the six, four (aged 66-71 years) had clinical and MR evidence of rotator cuff tear. The other two had undergone arthroscopic cuff repair (CS, 75-81). After operation, all professional gymnasts had returned to sport activity and all the other patients had resumed their jobs. After 30 years, the majority of the patients who had undergone the Gilcreest operation had good functional and cosmetic outcomes. Only a few patients had a cuff tear. The role of the LHBT as depressor of the humeral head is probably less important than generally believed.
Biceps tendon properties worsen initially but improve over time following rotator cuff tears in a rat model.	Damage to the biceps tendon is often seen in conjunction with rotator cuff tears. However, controversy exists regarding its role in the shoulder and its optimal treatment. A previous study determined that biceps tendons were detrimentally affected in the presence of rotator cuff tears in the rat model and this damage worsened over time. However, whether this damage progresses at later time points to provide a chronic model is unknown. The objective of this study was to determine the changes in the biceps tendon in the presence of a cuff tear over time. Our hypothesis was that histological, compositional, organizational, and mechanical properties would worsen with time. We detached the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons of 48 rats and evaluated these properties at 1, 4, 8, and 16 weeks postdetachment. Properties worsened through 8 weeks, but improved between 8 and 16 weeks. We therefore conclude that biceps tendon changes in this model are not truly chronic. Additionally, it has been shown that infraspinatus properties in this model return to normal by 16 weeks, when biceps properties improve, indicating that earlier repair of one or more of the rotator cuff tendons may lead to resolved pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon.
Flexor tendon tissue engineering: acellularization of human flexor tendons with preservation of biomechanical properties and biocompatibility.	Acellular human tendons are a candidate scaffold for tissue engineering flexor tendons of the hand. This study compared acellularization methods and their compatibility with allogeneic human cells.
The role of engineered tendon matrix in the stemness of tendon stem cells in vitro and the promotion of tendon-like tissue formation in vivo.	When injured, tendons tend to heal but with poor structure and compromised function. Tissue engineering is a promising approach to enhancing the quality of healing tendons. Our group and others have identified tendon stem cells (TSCs), a type of tendon-specific stem cells which may be optimal for cellular interventions seeking to restore normal structure and function to injured tendons. However, in vitro expanding of TSCs on regular plastic cell culture dishes only yields a limited number of TSCs before they lose the stemness, i.e., the self-renewal capability and multipotency. In this study, we developed a substrate material for TSCs, engineered tendon matrix (ETM) from decellularized tendon tissues. We showed that ETM in vitro was able to stimulate TSC proliferation and better preserve the stemness of TSCs than plastic culture surfaces. In vivo, implantation of ETM-TSC composite promoted tendon-like tissue formation whereas implantation of TSCs alone led to little such tissue formation. Together, the findings of this study indicate that ETM may be used to effectively expand TSCs in vitro and with TSCs, to enhance repair of injured tendons in vivo.
Double-row fixation of upper subscapularis tears with a single suture anchor.	The recognition of and discussion of operative techniques for subscapularis tendon tears have lagged behind those for the posterosuperior rotator cuff. The advancement of shoulder arthroscopy has provided the opportunity to see the articular side of the rotator cuff and has led to increased recognition of subscapularis tears. Double-row fixation of the posterosuperior rotator cuff has become popular because of improved biomechanical strength, footprint restoration, and tendon healing compared with single-row fixation. Double-row fixation of the subscapularis, however, has been challenging because of the small anterior space overlying the subscapularis. Whereas the subacromial space allows freedom of movement, the limited subcoracoid space makes visualization, instrument manipulation, and knot tying more difficult. We describe a new technique for double-row fixation of the upper subscapularis footprint using a knotless technique without an additional anchor, which eases some of the aforementioned difficulties. The technique is indicated for partial- or full-thickness tears of the upper 50% of the subscapularis tendon and therefore applies to the majority of tears involving the subscapularis tendon.
Intra-articular changes precede extra-articular changes in the biceps tendon after rotator cuff tears in a rat model.	Biceps tendon pathology is common with rotator cuff tears. The mechanisms for biceps changes, and therefore its optimal treatment, are unknown. Our objective was to determine the effect of rotator cuff tears on regional biceps tendon pathology. We hypothesized that histologic and compositional changes would appear before organizational changes, both would appear before mechanical changes, and changes would begin at the tendon's insertion site.
The effect of tear size and nerve injury on rotator cuff muscle fatty degeneration in a rodent animal model.	Irreversible muscle changes after rotator cuff tears is a well-known negative prognostic factor after shoulder surgery. Currently, little is known about the pathomechanism of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles after chronic cuff tears. The purposes of this study were to (1) develop a rodent animal model of chronic rotator cuff tears that can reproduce fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles seen clinically, (2) describe the effects of tear size and concomitant nerve injury on muscle degeneration, and (3) evaluate the changes in gene expression of relevant myogenic and adipogenic factors after rotator cuff tears using the animal model.
Damage mechanics of porcine flexor tendon: mechanical evaluation and modeling.	Porcine flexor tendons underwent cyclic and stress relaxation testing before and after strain exceeding elastic limit ("overstretch") to examine which mechanical parameters undergo changes following subfailure damage. From these data, we developed an "effective strain" damage model (in which the tendon is modeled as if being pulled to a lower strain). Damage was induced at three strain levels to determine the extent to which post-damage parameter changes were affected by overstretch strain level. We found that diffuse damage induced by overstretch decreased elastic and viscoelastic parameters obtained during testing. The stress response of tendon to strain is therefore altered following damage. We next compared the strain-dependent parameter behavior to damage-dependent behavior to determine the effective strain for each parameter. Effects of damage became more pronounced as strain during overstretch increased; following overstretch to 6.5, 9, or 13% strain, effective strain was 2.43 ± 0.33, 1.98 ± 0.3, or 0.88 ± 0.43% strain, respectively. By determining the effective strain and using it to calculate predicted values of post-damage mechanical parameters, it was possible to predict the stress relaxation behavior of tendons with Schapery's nonlinear viscoelastic model. Using this approach, a single parameter predicts both elastic and viscoelastic compromise from known, strain-dependent behaviors.
A comparison of outcomes after arthroscopic repair of partial versus small or medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears.	Little is known about the outcomes after repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to assess the outcome after repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears compared with full-thickness tears. Our hypothesis was that repair of partial-thickness tears leads to more shoulder stiffness but fewer retears compared with repair of full-thickness tears.
Video-based gait analysis for functional evaluation of healing achilles tendon in rats.	Video-based walking track systems have been developed for gait analysis in rat models. However, there is no previous study using video-based tracking systems to address the gait parameters to evaluate the recovery of Achilles tendon rupture models. This study conducted a comprehensive gait analysis using a video-based image processing system. Eighteen Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to one of three interventional conditions: sham surgery, Achilles tendon repair, and Achilles tendon defect. After surgery, all animals were evaluated using a video-based walking track system. The gait parameters and the Achilles functional index (AFI) were further analyzed. The ankle joint angles of the injury side at mid-stance and pre-swing were highly correlated with the AFI. However, lack of sensitivity was found for the AFI. Increased measurement sensitivity of the Achilles tendon healing condition was found in the ankle joint angle of the involved side at the pre-swing and the level of asymmetry of the hindlimb joint position and stance/swing time. The overall sensitivity of the ankle motion analysis was significantly higher than that of AFI. We conclude that the ankle motion analysis is a reliable, reproducible, and sensitive tool for Achilles tendon analysis in rats.
Skeletal lesions in the broiler, with special reference to dyschondroplasia (osteochondrosis). Pathology, frequency and clinical significance in two strains of birds on high and low energy feed.	The material consisted of 2,950 broilers of the variety Hybro Compact of two lines. An equal number of birds of both lines were given either a high energy feed (H) or a low energy feed (L), containing all nutrients known to be required by broilers. During the first 3 weeks, H and L starter feeds were given and thereafter H and L finishing feeds. At 21, 35, and 45 days of age, the birds were weighed in groups, and feed conversion calculated. At 21 days of age, the frequency of crooked toes and swollen hocks was registered. Birds were taken from each group for necropsy at regular intervals. Both clinically normal birds and those with locomotor disturbances were selected for necropsy, including radiographic examination. With the exception of 240 birds, which were kept for a long-term study, the birds on the H feed were slaughtered at 42 days of age and the ones on the L feed at 49 days of age. The long-term birds were slaughtered at regular intervals, weighed, and necropsied. The last birds were slaughtered at 134 days of age. A large number of skeletal lesions were found. They were: Twisted legs, slipped tendons, crooked toes, bowing of the proximal tibia, dyschondroplasia at different sites, fracture of the fibula, deformity of the spine, deviated sternum (with breast blisters), arthritis, and osteomyelitis. Leg weakness was found to be almost synonymous with skeletal deformities. Other causes were rare. The normal development and morphology of the skeleton and the morphology of tibial dyschondroplasia were the same as those previously described in the turkey. Dyschondroplasia was found not only in the proximal tibia but also in the distal tibia, proximal tarsometatarsus, proximal and distal femur, and to some extent also in the costochondral junction. Tibial dyschondroplasia was more common in the birds on the H feed than in the birds on the L feed. Hence, tibial dyschondroplasia was correlated with rapid growth. The other skeletal lesions did not differ in incidence in the birds on the H and L feeds. It was postulated that greater difference in growth rate is necessary for a demonstration of a possible correlation between skeletal deformities and growth rate.
Operative treatment of chronic irreparable Achilles tendon ruptures with large flexor hallucis longus tendon transfers.	Transfer of the flexor hallucis longus (FHL) tendon aims to restore function and relieve pain in chronic Achilles tendon (AT) disease. The goal of the present study was to investigate the clinical and radiographic outcomes of FHL transfer to the AT and to compare the transtendinous technique to the transosseous technique. We hypothesized that the type of technique would have a notable impact on outcome.
2013 Neer Award: Effect of the adipose-derived stem cell for the improvement of fatty degeneration and rotator cuff healing in rabbit model.	This study was conducted to verify the effects of adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) on tendon healing and reversal of fatty infiltration in a chronic rotator cuff tear model by using the rabbit subscapularis (SSC).
Percutaneous versus open repair of acute Achilles tendon ruptures.	Controversy exists regarding the optimal treatment for acute Achilles tendon ruptures. Conservative and surgical treatments have been reported with variable results and complications rates. The purpose of this study is to compare the postoperative clinical and functional results of percutaneous versus open repair of acute Achilles tendon ruptures.
The early inflammatory response after flexor tendon healing: a gene expression and histological analysis.	Despite advances in surgical techniques over the past three decades, tendon repairs remain prone to poor clinical outcomes. Previous attempts to improve tendon healing have focused on the later stages of healing (i.e., proliferation and matrix synthesis). The early inflammatory phase of tendon healing, however, is not fully understood and its modulation during healing has not yet been studied. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to characterize the early inflammatory phase of flexor tendon healing with the goal of identifying inflammation-related targets for future treatments. Canine flexor tendons were transected and repaired using techniques identical to those used clinically. The inflammatory response was monitored for 9 days. Temporal changes in immune cell populations and gene expression of inflammation-, matrix degradation-, and extracellular matrix-related factors were examined. Gene expression patterns paralleled changes in repair-site cell populations. Of the observed changes, the most dramatic effect was a greater than 4,000-fold up-regulation in the expression of the pro-inflammatory factor IL-1β. While an inflammatory response is likely necessary for healing to occur, high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines may result in collateral tissue damage and impaired tendon healing. These findings suggest that future tendon treatment approaches consider modulation of the inflammatory phase of healing.
Association between distal ulnar morphology and extensor carpi ulnaris tendon pathology.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between distal ulnar morphology and extensor carpi ulnaris (ECU) tendon pathology.
Soleus muscle injury: sensitivity of ultrasound patterns.	To assess the sensitivity of ultrasound in detecting soleus muscle lesions diagnosed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to characterize their location, ultrasound pattern, and evolution.
Tendon repair is compromised in a high fat diet-induced mouse model of obesity and type 2 diabetes.	The obesity epidemic has resulted in a large increase in type 2 diabetes (T2D). While some secondary complications of T2D are well recognized and their cellular and molecular mechanisms are defined, the impact of T2D on the musculoskeletal system is less understood. Clinical evidence suggests that tendon strength and repair are compromised. Here, a mouse model of obesity and T2D recapitulates the deleterious effects of this condition on tendon repair.
Mesenchymal stem cell application improves tendon healing via anti-apoptotic effect (Animal study).	The aim of this study was to determine the effects of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) application and the possible pathways of MSC's effects on tendon strength and healing after tendon repair.
Arthroscopic biceps tenodesis compared with repair of isolated type II SLAP lesions in patients older than 35 years.	This study compared arthroscopic biceps tenodesis with biceps repair for isolated type II superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions in patients older than 35 years. The authors identified isolated type II SLAP lesions that were surgically managed over a 5-year period. Minimum 2-year follow-up data were available for 22 patients who underwent biceps repair (repair group) and for 15 patients who underwent a primary biceps tenodesis (tenodesis group). Mean age at surgery was 45.2±5.5 years in the repair group and 52.0±8.0 years in the tenodesis group. In the repair group, functional outcome improved from baseline to final follow-up using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) (47.5 to 87.4, respectively; P<.0001) and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) scores (18.5 to 31.2, respectively; P<.0001). In the tenodesis group, similar findings were observed for the ASES (43.4 to 89.9, respectively; P<.0001) and UCLA scores (19.0 to 32.7, respectively; P<.0001). No difference was found in functional outcome between the groups. Full range of motion recovery was delayed by approximately 3 months in the repair group compared with the tenodesis group (P=.0631). Two patients in the repair group required a secondary capsular release. Seventy-seven percent of patients in the repair group and 100% of patients in the tenodesis group were satisfied and returned to normal activity (P=.0673). In the current study, individuals older than 35 years with an isolated type II SLAP lesion had a shorter postoperative recovery, a more predictable functional outcome, and a higher rate of satisfaction and return to activity with a biceps tenodesis compared with a biceps repair. Based on these observations, biceps tenodesis is preferable to biceps repair for isolated type II SLAP lesions in nonoverhead athletes older than 35 years. 
Contractile connective tissue cells and wound healing. Function of myoid fibroblasts in reparative regeneration of mesenchymal tissue]	The present survey deals with processes of wound healing with special regard to fibroblast proliferation. Comparative experimental studies on reparative and regenerative fibroblastic proliferates and findings from the literature point to the importance of a fibroblast modification with myoid structure in certain phases of the reparative regeneration of the connective tissues. The ultrastructural picture of the myoid fibroblasts and their functional significance are discussed with regard to wound healing in man.
Isolated traumatic dislocation of the extensor carpi ulnaris tendon]	The authors describe one case of post-traumatic dislocation of the extensor carpi ulnaris tendon. They found eleven other cases reported in the literature. The type of lesion should be looked for in cases of trauma to the wrist without a bony lesion. The treatment should be surgical when function is impaired, either shortly after the initial trauma or if the dislocation becomes habitual. The aim is to reconstruct a tendon sheath. The results were generally satisfactory.
Lesions in different types of anterior glenohumeral joint dislocation. An experimental study.	Three different kinds of anterior shoulder joint dislocation were studied in an experimental setup including 15 shoulder joint specimens. Lesion to the anterior-inferior part of the capsule was the most frequent finding in anterior dislocation. In anterior-superior dislocation lesions to the anterior-inferior part of the capsule and the posterior part of the cuff were equally prominent. Anterior-inferior dislocation was associated with lesions to all capsular structures including the glenohumeral ligament and both the anterior and posterior part of the cuff. From a clinical point of view, the study indicates that in some types of anterior dislocation a severe lesion of the posterior part of the capsule and cuff must also be considered.
Experimental studies on cellular mechanisms involved in healing of animal and human flexor tendon in synovial environment.	An experimental model is presented to study superficial healing of animal and human flexor tendon in a synovial environment. The results indicate that in a synovial environment a cut and resutured flexor tendon may heal in its superficial parts without adhesion formation. When cell seeding via the synovial fluid is prevented by a dialysing membrane the picture, as revealed by light microscopy, is little changed. When the model is modified so that the central cells of the tendon are exposed to the synovial fluid, these cells become activated. The results indicate that superficial as well as deep cells of the tendon possess a potential for repair if they are adequately nourished, and that cell seeding plays no major role in the process of proliferation and repair. The picture of intrinsic repair potential in a synovial environment seems to be valid also for human flexor tendons.
Tendon, tendon sheath, and ligament injuries in the pastern.	The palmar (plantar) aspect of the pastern is an anatomically complex area and an understanding of this is a prerequisite for accurate diagnosis of injuries in this area. The gross and normal ultrasonographic anatomy are described, and injuries of the superficial and deep digital flexor tendons and the digital flexor tendon sheath, the distal sesamoidean ligaments, and the palmar ligaments of the proximal interphalangeal joint are discussed.
A post mortem study of equine digital flexor tendons.	The results of a survey are presented in which 589 limbs from 206 horses were dissected. In174 of the limbs lesions were found in either the superficial (131) or deep (43) digital flexor tendons. Changes occurring with age were also recorded. The sites of the abnormalities and their macroscopical appearance are described and the value of the results is considered in relation to the diagnosis and the treatment of clinical lesions.
Effects of exercise on Achilles tendon healing in a rat model.	The effects of motion, or lack of it, on Achilles tendon healing are not well defined. We have recently shown that immobilization has a detrimental effect on tendon healing in a rat model. The aim of this experiment was to determine whether enforced exercise had an additional beneficial effect on the mechanical and functional recovery of divided Achilles tendons in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into a nonexercise and an exercise group (N = 10 for each group). In both groups the right Achilles tendon was surgically transected. The left, uninjured lower limb served as an internal control. Both groups of animals were housed under identical conditions with the exception that the exercise group swam for 15 minutes per day. Functional performance was determined from the measurement of hindpaw prints of walking rats preoperatively and on alternate postoperative days. On day 15, the animals were killed and weighed, and biomechanical evaluations were performed on both the injured and uninjured Achilles tendon constructs. There were no differences in weight at time of death. All animals had an initial functional deficit that returned to near-normal by day 15. There were significant differences in the morphological and the mechanical properties of the healing Achilles tendon constructs at day 15 when comparing the injured with the uninjured Achilles tendon constructs. Supplemental exercise, however, had no effect on the functional or mechanical recovery of injured or uninjured Achilles tendons in the rat model.
