Shoulder reconstruction in patients with chronic brachial plexus birth palsy. A case control study.	Patients with chronic brachial plexus birth palsy and persistent peripheral neurologic deficits frequently have problems related to their shoulder. Specifically, internal rotation and adduction contractures develop because of the loss of muscle balance about the glenohumeral joint. With time, progressive and predictable deformity of the glenohumeral joint occurs. The authors reviewed their results in treating patients with persistent functional deficits with either soft tissue procedures (tendon transfers and muscle releases) or rotational humeral osteotomies based on criteria incorporating patient age and degree of glenohumeral deformity. Patients in each group were evaluated prospectively and compared with each other. In all cases, patients in both groups experienced substantial improvements in global shoulder function. In the patients in the tendon transfer group, global Mallet scores improved from an average of 9.5 to 15.6. Patients undergoing humeral osteotomies also had improvements in global Mallet score from an average of 9.5 to 15.1. This study confirms that both operations, when appropriately applied, will predictably improve shoulder function.
Long Z-osteotomy: a review and new modification to correct troughing.	The long Z-osteotomy (scarf) has proven to be an effective procedure for correction of the metatarsus primus varus component of the hallux abducto valgus deformity. An historical review and technical considerations of the procedure are described. Although technically demanding, it offers the advantages of superior strength with internal fixation, early range of motion, and early weightbearing. An uncommon but challenging intraoperative complication of the procedure is troughing (channeling). The author describes a technique that involves transfer of the adductor hallucis tendon through the horizontal aspect of the osteotomy when troughing is encountered. The benefits and potential complications are discussed. Although it occurs infrequently, this new modification has the potential to salvage a potentially debilitating complication.
Medial sliding calcaneal osteotomy with flexor hallucis longus transfer for the treatment of posterior tibial tendon insufficiency.	Medial sliding calcaneal osteotomy is a simple bone procedure to augment tendon transfer in treatment of stage 2 posterior tibial tendon dysfunction. This osteotomy moves the valgus heel under the weight-bearing axis of the leg, shifts the Achilles' insertion medially, and decreases strain on the spring ligament and deltoid ligaments. The osteotomy heals within 6 weeks. Consistently reproducible good-to-excellent results have been achieved using medial sliding calcaneal osteotomy in conjunction with FHL transfer.
Pedicle island flaps of latissimus dorsi. Applications in surgical repair of ruptures of the rotator cuff.	There are considerable problems in repair of major ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons particularly those of the supra and infraspinatus mm. The Gerber technique only transfers the tendinous insertion of the latissimus dorsi onto the greater tuberosity in massive cuff ruptures. We have extended this approach. In 12 shoulders, we studied the feasibility of a latissimus dorsi transfer harvested to fit and bearing muscle and tendon detached at its two extremities and transposed as a neurovascular island. The muscular part is transferred to the infra or supraspinous fossae and the tendon to the greater tuberosity with the aim of reactivating the infra and supraspinatus muscles. The lateral bundle of the latissimus dorsi is always transferable on its neurovascular pedicle into the infraspinous fossa, even into the supraspinous fossa, or into both if transfer is used as a bilobed flap. This anatomical work allowed a parallel study of the different possibilities of transposing the neurovascular pedicle, which might limit the technique, and also to determine the most appropriate surgical approach.
A modification in technique of abductor digiti minimi (Huber) opponensplasty.	Abductor digiti minimi opponensplasty is a well-established method of restoring opposition following median nerve trauma or in congenital deficiency of thenar intrinsic musculature. The abductor digiti minimi is detached distally and rerouted through a subcutaneous tunnel for insertion into the area of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint. The pivot point for this rotation is the pisiform bone and it is at this site that the ulnar nerve is vulnerable to compression by the transferred muscle. We describe a modification of technique which involves complete islanding of the muscle without re-insertion of its proximal end. This eliminates the possibility of this complication without detracting from the efficacy of opposition produced by the transferred muscle.
A long-term follow-up result of posterior tibialis muscle transfer for foot-drop in leprosy patients]	To determine the long-term results and possible complications of the posterior tibialis transfer in correction of the foot-drop in leprosy patients, and to compare the results by the circum-tibial and interosseous routes.
Carpal instability with scapho-lunate dissociation treated using the flexor carpi radialis and scaphoid-trapezoid ligament repair: foundations, technique and results of preliminary series]	Carpal instability with scapho-lunate dissociation is still attributed to rupture of the so-called scapho-lunate ligament. Actually, this structure is not a ligament but a loose capsule allowing very different flexion of the scaphoid (92 degrees) and the lunate (20 degrees). As reconstruction of the scapho-lunate "ligament" has often been less than satisfactory we searched for another technique. Sections of the scapho-lunate "ligament" on cadaver specimens never produce scapho-lunate dissociation. This dissociation can not occur because the scaphoid is maintained in the radial facette. It was observed that the only way to produce scapho-lunate dissociation is to section the scapho-trapezo-trapezoid ligament allowing flexion of the scaphoid and dorsal dislocation out of the radial facette. The scapho-trapezo-trapezoid ligament is not well known and is not described in anatomy text books because it is hidden by the flexor carpi radialis tendon. It is confluent with the scaphoid and the trapezoid. This produces a radial (scapho-trapezoid) column which acts like a true external pillar maintaining the height of the carpus and preventing carpal collapse. Finally, dissociation of the proximal pole from the semi-lunate can only occur by posterior displacement. After experimenting the technique on cadaver specimens, we developed a reconstruction method for the palmar scapho-trapezoid ligament using a band of the flexor carpi radialis tendon, applied in 38 patients. The flexor carpi radialis band measured 7 cm and was left attached to the base of the second metacarpal then passed in a tunnel bored anteriorly to posteriorly in the distal pole of the scaphoid. The band was then drawn dorsally while maintaining the scaphoid in place, and sutured to the postero-ulnar border of the radius. The height of the carpus was restored as was scaphoid movement over the lunate. The reduction persisted at mid- and long-term and prevented carpal collapse and joint destruction. Among the 38 operated patients, 33 remained pain free and 5 complained of minor pain under stressful conditions. All were satisfied. Anatomic research and clinical experience has demonstrated that the scapho-trapezoidal ligament is the key to scapho-lunate dissociation and its correction. Currently, this operation is the only way to achieve easy and persistent correction of carpal instability with scapho-lunate dissociation.
Common peroneal nerve injuries: results with one-stage nerve repair and tendon transfer.	The authors report their experience in the treatment of common peroneal nerve (CPN) injuries using a one-stage procedure of nerve repair and tibialis posterior tendon transfer. A series of 45 patients with traumatic injury and graft repair of the CPN is presented. From 1988 to 1991, the six patients elected for surgery had only nerve repair: five ultimately did not recover, while muscle contraction in the remaining patient was graded M1-2. Since 1991, nerve surgery in our clinic was associated with tendon transfer procedures (39 cases) which were followed by a satisfactory reinnervation rate. Nerve transection and iatrogenic injuries, torsion/dislocation of the knee, complex biosseous fractures of the leg, and gunshot wounds showed excellent to fair results in decreasing order: in nerve sections, muscle recovery scored M3 or M4+ in all the patients, and in nerve ruptures due to severe dislocation of the knee, it was M3 or M4+ in 85% of cases. The association of microsurgical nerve repair and tendon transfer has changed the course of CPN injuries.
Long-term comparative results in patients with congenital clubfoot treated with two different protocols.	Long-term follow-up studies of adults who had been treated for congenital clubfoot as infants are rare. The purpose of this study was to review and compare the long-term results in two groups of patients with congenital clubfoot treated with two different techniques. In both groups, treatment was started within the first three weeks of life by manipulation and application of toe-to-groin plaster casts, with a different technique in each group. At the end of the manipulative treatment, a posteromedial release was performed when the patient was between eight and twelve months of age in the first group and a limited posterior release was performed when the patient was between two and four months of age in the second group.
Single-stage flexor tendoplasty in the treatment of flexor tendon injuries]	We evaluated tendon reconstruction with one-stage tendon grafting in flexor tendon injuries in which primary repair was not considered because of delay in treatment or of inappropriate circumstances on the part of the wound and the patient.
The correction of ulnar claw fingers: a follow-up study comparing the extensor-to-flexor with the palmaris longus 4-tailed tendon transfer in patients with leprosy.	The extensor to flexor 4-tailed tendon transfer (EF4T) and the palmaris longus 4-tailed tendon transfer (PL4T) are 2 surgical procedures used to correct intrinsic paralysis of the hand in leprosy. The EF4T traditionally is the more common procedure and requires the transfer of a wrist extensor muscle. The PL4T requires the transfer of the palmaris longus and morbidity is expected to be lower. A follow-up study was performed to determine whether the clinical outcome of the PL4T is superior to the EF4T procedure in leprosy patients with ulnar claw fingers that are considered mobile before surgery.
Combined pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for massive rotator cuff deficiency.	This report is a retrospective review of 11 consecutive patients treated with a combined transfer of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major tendons for massive rotator cuff deficiency. Each patient's chief complaint was diminished shoulder function and motion with little or no accompanying pain. The primary operative objective was to increase active shoulder motion. All 11 patients were followed up for at least 2 years (range, 24 to 42 months). The mean active elevation improved from 42 degrees preoperatively to 86 degrees postoperatively. The mean active external rotation improved from 0 degrees to 13 degrees. On the basis of the Medical Research Council scale, the mean abduction strength improved from 2.3 to 3.1 and the mean external rotation strength improved from 2.1 to 2.7. Overall, 4 patients made no improvement, 2 improved slightly, and 5 improved significantly. We conclude that a combined transfer of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major is a reasonable and safe procedure that may restore active elevation and external rotation in some patients' shoulders with a massive rotator cuff deficiency that have not responded favorably to traditional nonoperative and operative techniques. However, it is difficult to conclude, based on our experience, for which patients this surgery can be predictably successful.
Neglected rupture of the Achilles tendon: reconstruction with peroneus brevis tendon transfer.	The management of acute and neglected subcutaneous tears of the Achilles tendon by peroneus tendon transfer is safe but technically demanding. It affords good recovery, even in patients with a long-term neglected rupture. Patients with a neglected rupture are at a slightly greater risk of post-operative complications and may never fully recover their ankle plantar flexion strength.
Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction autograft choice: bone-tendon-bone versus hamstring: does it really matter? A systematic review.	Anterior cruciate ligament graft choice is controversial, with no evidence-based consensus available to guide decision making. The study design was evidence-based medicine systematic review of randomized controlled trials evaluating patellar tendon versus hamstring tendon autografts. A literature review identified 9 randomized controlled trials comparing patellar tendon and hamstring tendon autografts. An evidence-based systematic review was performed. Objective and subjective outcomes of interest included surgical technique, rehabilitation, instrumented laxity, isokinetic strength, patellofemoral pain, return to preinjury activity, and Tegner, Lysholm, Cincinnati, and International Knee Documentation Committee-1991 scores. Additional surgery, graft failure, and complications were reviewed. Slight increased laxity on arthrometer testing was seen in the hamstring population in 3 of 7 studies. Pain with kneeling was greater for the patellar tendon population in 4 of 4 studies. Only 1 of 9 studies showed increased anterior knee pain in the patellar tendon group. Frequency of additional surgery seemed to be related to the fixation method and not graft type. No study reported a significant difference in graft failure between patellar tendon and hamstring tendon autografts. Objective differences (range of motion, isokinetic strength, arthrometer testing) were not detected between groups in the majority of studies, suggesting that their sensitivity to detect clinical outcomes may be limited. Increased kneeling pain in the patellar tendon group was seen consistently in the studies evaluated. Subjective differences in anterior knee pain or return-to-activity level were not consistently observed in these studies. With numbers available, failure rates were not significantly different between groups. These findings suggest that graft type may not be the primary determinant for successful outcomes after anterior cruciate ligament surgery.
Dynamic correction of static scapholunate instability using an active tendon transfer of extensor brevi carpi radialis: preliminary report]	We present the case of a twenty year old man who developed static scapholunate instability on the right side following a road traffic accident seven months previously. A dynamic surgical technique was devised to treat this problem using the tendon of extensor brevi carpi radialis as an active transfer. The tendon, divided at its insertion on the base of the third metacarpal, was reinserted into the distal part of the scaphoid using two anchors after shortening it by removing the distal centimetre. The tendon was rerouted via a pulley created 'de novo' at Lister's tubercle in order to centre the tendon on the same axis as the scaphoid. No other material was used for bone fixation. The wrist was immobilized in extension for six weeks. The clinical and radiological result eight months after the intervention showed excellent reduction of the scapholunate joint and a pain-free wrist with satisfactory mobility.
Spontaneous rupture of extensor pollicis longus in systemic lupus erythematosus]	We report a case of spontaneous rupture of extensor pollicis longus of the left hand. This 63 year-old woman was treated with oral corticosteroids for 23 years because of systemic lupus erythematosus. Her hands had no deformity. This rupture was spontaneous and caused pain for 15 days. The treatment was surgical and consisted of an extensor indicis proprius transposition. There was no macroscopic tenosynovitis. The follow-up of one year showed a good result. Less than 40 spontaneous ruptures in systemic lupus erythematosus have been described in the literature; only seven cases were ruptures of hand tendons and only extensors. As far as we know, the spontaneous rupture of extensor pollicis longus has never been described in systemic lupus erythematosus. The role of corticosteroids is discussed.
Excision of the trapezium for osteoarthritis of the trapeziometacarpal joint: a study of the benefit of ligament reconstruction or tendon interposition.	To investigate whether palmaris longus interposition or flexor carpi radialis ligament reconstruction and tendon interposition improved the outcome of excision of the trapezium for the treatment of painful osteoarthritis of the trapeziometacarpal joint.
Total knee arthroplasty in a patellectomised posterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee: a new technique of patellar tendon bone grafting.	Total knee arthroplasty in patients with previous patellectomy are less successful because of anteroposterior instability, residual pain and the loss of the mechanical advantage of the patella. To restore the moment arm of the quadriceps, the senior author (C.W.) described the technique of bone grafting the patellar tendon in a patient using the tibial plateau obtained from the routine tibial cut during total knee arthroplasty. The tibial eminence was used as the interfacetal ridge of the 'created' patella. At follow-up, the results were excellent with a postoperative knee society score of 90 and a postoperative patient functional score of 92. Radiological investigations showed a well-incorporated graft in the patellar tendon.
Management of affected flexor tendons in rheumatoid arthritis of the hand]	The affection to the flexor tendons of the patient with rheumatoid arthritis represents a substantial rheumatic change in the hand, which is characterized by restriction of movement, ulnar deviation in the level of the metacarpophalangeal joint and palmar incomplete dislocation. Early treatment by removing any possible constriction areas in synovial proliferations in the area of the flexor pullies or a complete tendosynovectomy makes an extensive restitution possible. In the case of only one ruptured flexor tendon, it can be treated by the transfer of the neighboring superficialis tendon or a tendon transplant. If there are multiple ruptures, the results will be clearly worse in regard to movement and strength, whereby as a rule the result is seriously influenced by articular destruction. Therefore, an early tendosynovectomy and a preventive operation to the wrist have to be recommended.
Differential therapy for the rheumatoid thumb]	The thumb frequently is involved in rheumatoid arthritis and often is a source of significant functional loss, pain, and deformity. Surgical intervention in patients with rheumatoid arthritis of the thumb should be based on the degree of radiological destruction according to Larsen, the natural course of the rheumatoid hand, the nature and stage of deformity as well as the status of tendons, ligaments, and adjacent joints. The goals of surgery are to relieve pain, increase motion, and restore thumb function. The timing for shoulder surgery should be early in the course of the disease, since it determines the long-term prognosis and the remaining surgical options. Treatment options, alone or in combination, include synovectomy, arthrodesis, arthroplasty, and tendon repair or transfer. Joint-preserving surgery is indicated in the early stages of radiological destruction according to Larsen classification O-III, whereas the late stages of destruction (Larsen IV-V) require reconstructive surgery. Especially in hand and finger arthritis, the "wait and see" strategy should no longer be followed. Close interdisciplinary cooperation between surgeon and rheumatologist is necessary for early therapeutic strategy, taking into account the functional unit of the whole upper extremity. The ultimate aim is to provide pain relief, improve function, enhance appearance, and slow the progression of disease. When the pathogenesis and pathoanatomy of the impaired rheumatoid thumb are appreciated, and appropriate treatment is selected, surgical intervention is likely to provide a favorable outcome for the patient.
Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, hamstring versus bone-patella tendon-bone grafts: a systematic literature review of outcome from surgery.	The Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) is regarded as critical to the normal functioning of the knee, its disruption causing functional impairment. In recent years central third of the patellar tendon (PT) and combined Semitendinosis and gracilis tendons (HT) have become the most frequently used graft types for anterior cruciate knee ligament reconstruction. For the past two decades, the gold standard in ACL reconstructions has been the PT, but increasingly the HT graft has been used. This shift in popularity has occurred for several reasons, including concerns about damaging the knee extensor apparatus using the PT procedure, but potential complications also exist with HT techniques. Despite the vast amount of literature on ACL reconstruction and its outcome, there are very few controlled randomised studies directly comparing the two most commonly used tissue grafts. This review aimed to examine the data available from randomised trials, in order to combine and evaluate the best available evidence for choice between these two popular tissue grafts for use in ACL reconstruction. A literature search revealed 13 studies, which met the inclusion criteria of the review. The results of the 13 studies included in this review suggest that there is no significant evidence to indicate that one graft is superior. Both the PT and HT grafts appear to improve patients' performance, and therefore both would be good choices for ACL reconstruction.
The management of decubitus ulcers by musculocutaneous flaps: a five-year experience.	Large decubitus ulcers can be treated by using many methods, including musculocutaneous flaps. Musculocutaneous flaps provide reliable, well-vascularized cover and often can be revised in patients with secondary recurrence. We have treated 30 patients with large decubitus ulcers during a 5-year period by using musculocutaneous advancement flaps of the gluteus maximus, the hamstring muscle, and the tensor fasciae latae. There were two complications treated by debridement with flap advancement in 1 patient and the use of another flap in the second patient. Four patients developed a recurrent ulcer, which was treated by reelevation and advancement of the original flap in all patients. The general management and overall results are presented.
Clinical significance of variations in the interconnections between flexor digitorum longus and flexor hallucis longus in the region of the knot of Henry.	Tendon transfer of the flexor digitorum longus tendon (FDLT) or the flexor hallucis longus tendon (FHLT) into the tibialis posterior tendon is carried out in patients with tibialis posterior dysfunction. FDLT and FHLT are connected in the region of the knot of Henry. The present study has investigated the anatomical variations of this tendinous interconnection. The results could be used to determine which of the two tendons should be transected proximal to the region of the knot of Henry in the surgical treatment of tibialis posterior dysfunction. In over two-thirds of cadaver specimens investigated, tension applied solely to FHLT resulted in flexion of all digits and the hallux. On the basis of these results, we propose that identification of the tendon to be transected should be decided at the time of surgery depending on the anatomical pattern. Based on the evidence provided by 16 cadaveric dissections, transection of FDLT proximal to the region of the knot of Henry for the repair of tibialis posterior dysfunction would result in retention of function of the hallux and lesser digits in the majority of cases.
Superficial versus deep transfer of the posterior tibialis tendon.	Transfer of the posterior tibialis tendon to the dorsum of the foot is a commonly performed procedure in conditions that weaken ankle dorsiflexors and evertors, resulting in equinovarus foot deformities. When transferring the tendon, surgeons have the choice of routing the tendon deep to the extensor retinaculum or superficial to it. This study compares the biomechanics of these two routing methods. Seven cadaveric lower limbs were tested by applying known forces to the transferred posterior tibialis tendon. Resultant kinematics indicated that passing superficial to the retinaculum resulted in a significantly more efficient motion than transfer deep to the retinaculum.
Resorbable screws versus pins for optimal transplant fixation (SPOT) in anterior cruciate ligament replacement with autologous hamstring grafts: rationale and design of a randomized, controlled, patient and investigator blinded trial [ISRCTN17384369].	Ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) are common injuries to the knee joint. Arthroscopic ACL replacement by autologous tendon grafts has established itself as a standard of care. Data from both experimental and observational studies suggest that surgical reconstruction does not fully restore knee stability. Persisting anterior laxity may lead to recurrent episodes of giving-way and cartilage damage. This might at least in part depend on the method of graft fixation in the bony tunnels. Whereas resorbable screws are easy to handle, pins may better preserve graft tension. The objective of this study is to determine whether pinning of ACL grafts reduces residual anterior laxity six months after surgery as compared to screw fixation.
The Bridle procedure in the treatment of paralysis of the foot.	The Bridle procedure consists of a posterior tibial tendon transfer through the interosseous membrane to the dorsum of the foot with a dual anastomosis to the tendon of the anterior tibial and a rerouted peroneus longus in front of the lateral malleolus. This procedure is performed to restore loss of dorsiflexion and to balance the foot, preventing a secondary varus or valgus deformity. The procedure was performed in 10 patients with 11 feet with paralysis of dorsiflexion of the foot. All are brace-free. The results are better in patients with peroneal nerve palsy secondary to trauma.
Congenital dislocation of the patella and its operative treatment.	Twelve patients with 18 knees whose congenital permanent lateral dislocation of the patella was irreducible by nonoperative means are reported. All knees were operated on according to the same principles, including medial transfer of the patellar tendon. The age of the patients at operation varied between 3 and 19 years. The average follow-up time was greater than 13 years. All patients benefited greatly from the operation. Active knee extension ability was restored in all knees. Some extension deficit remained in two severely dysplastic patients. Congenital subluxation with habitual dislocation of the patella has been successfully treated by the method described.
Knee motion following multiple soft-tissue releases in ambulatory patients with cerebral palsy.	Multiple soft-tissue releases (MSTRs) in cerebral palsy have been advocated to improve knee motion during gait. Forty-five extremities underwent MSTRs as recommended by preoperative gait analysis. Pre- and postoperative analyses were evaluated in relation to knee motion and foot progression angle. Maximum knee flexion during swing and the foot progression angle showed no significant change postoperatively. The total knee ROM and minimum knee flexion in stance improved significantly towards normal. The timing of maximum knee flexion and slope of the knee flexion curve at toe off improved with respect to age and number of previous surgeries. MSTRs increased knee ROM and improved the sequential timing and event progression during gait.
Secondary flexor tendon reconstruction]	Secondary flexor tendon repair has lost its dominant position since Claude Verdan and other pioneers demonstrated, that primary tendon suture within the former "no man's land" is even more successful than secondary tendon grafting. Secondary reconstruction may concern delayed direct tenorrhaphy, one or two staged, short or long tendon grafts, pedicled tendon transplants, pulley reconstruction, tenodesis and tendon transfer. Secondary repair may be indicated for overlooked tendon injuries, for infected wounds, traumatic or septic tendon defects, for rheumatic ruptures and finally for failed primary repair of tenolysis. The indications and techniques of the different procedures are demonstrated and discussed.
Gaining uniform active muscle function by "in situ tendon transplant" in surgical rehabilitation of the upper extremity of tetraplegic patients. A case report]	The results of tendon transfers in the tetraplegic upper limb are encouraging. In contrast to the cases with peripheral nerve injury or polio, the availability of active muscles for transfers is very limited in tetraplegics. In both hands of a tetraplegic patient with Group 4 according to the international classification the brachioradialis was transferred to FPL and ECRL to FDP 2-5. The Zancolli-Lasso-procedure was performed in both hands as well as tenodesis of EPL proximally to the wrist. On the right side stabilisation of the thumb was achieved by CMS-1-fusion and on the left side the thumb got control by an abductor transfer using pronator teres and an interpositional tendon graft of the paralysed FDS 2. The result is described. Grip strength and Sollerman test were measured. Advantages and disadvantages of the two different procedures for thumb control are discussed, and the different abilities of gripping are shown.
Microvascular digit transposition following a two-digit amputation in an infant.	Multiple digit amputations in children demand special consideration to make subsequent hand function optimal. Replanted digits in children have a comparatively lower viability rate, but those that do survive usually go on to excellent function. In this case, an amputated thumb was severely mangled and not suitable for replantation. An amputated index finger was transposed to the thumb position. A six-month postoperative follow-up of the transposed digit confirmed satisfactory joint motion, restored sensibility, and unimpaired digit growth. The 11-month-old infant described is the youngest patient ever reported to have undergone a successful emergency microvascular digit transposition.
Free flaps in the reconstruction of hand and distal forearm injuries.	We report a series of 32 free flap reconstructions following acute hand and forearm trauma. The series consists of two dorsalis pedis flaps, four scapular flaps and 26 lateral arm flaps. One flap became infected and failed completely, and a partial necrosis occurred in another flap. The transfers covered large skin defects, exposed tendons, tendon grafts, bone, bone grafts, joints, nerves and nerve grafts. The donor site morbidity was negligible. Our study shows that free microvascular flaps are a safe and convenient alternative to conventional flaps in hand surgery. The lateral arm flap seems very suitable for small and medium size defects.
Control arthroscopy following alloplastically augmented anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction]	97 patients who had their ACL replaced with ligamentum patellae transplant augmented with LAD were reviewed arthroscopically after an average period of 9.1 months (4-22 months). 52 patients whose metal implants have been removed are virtually symptom-free clinically (no swelling, stable knee joint, extension limitation of less than 5 degrees, less than 10 degrees limitation of flexion). Arthroscopy on these 52 patients revealed the following; no abnormalities in 37, 11 cases of cartilage lesions, 1 case of medial meniscal tear and 7 cases of LAD tears. 45 patients who have also had their metal implants removed have complaints, arthroscopy revealed the following; hypertrophy of Hoffa's fat pad in 5 cases, 3 cases of medial meniscal tears, 2 cases of lateral meniscal tears. Tears of the LAD were seen in 9 cases. In 2 cases the transplant was missing, in 5 cases the transplant was elongated and in 2 cases the transplant showed normal structure. There were cartilage lesions in 9 cases, 4 cases of synovitis and scar tissue adhesion in 3. In all there were 16 cases of LAD tears, in 9 out of these 16 cases the transplant ACL of good structure. All of this knees were stable. Control arthroscopy is routinely carried out when we remove the metal implants. This enables us to detect any early problems, such as limitation of extension or swelling, assess the success of the operation and commence the corresponding additional therapy.
The interaction between the whipstitch sutures of multi-strand ACL grafts and interference screw fixation.	In a recent experiment examining the effect of interference screw sizing on the fixation stability of multi-strand anterior cruciate ligament grafts, we noticed a large variation in fixation strengths and attributed it to the suturing of the grafts and its interaction with the screw. We performed an experiment using interference screws for fixation of hamstring grafts within a bone tunnel model to compare how the presence of sutures affected graft fixation. We found that having sutures along the region of the graft that contacts the screw within the bone tunnel can increase graft fixation strength 100%.
A one-stage shoulder arthrodesis and Brooks Seddon pectoralis major to biceps tendon transfer for upper brachial plexus injuries.	Reconstructive procedures to optimise the function of patients with upper brachial plexus injuries are well described. From 1999 to 2005, nine patients underwent a single stage Brooks Seddon pectoralis major to biceps tendon transfer with a glenohumeral arthrodesis for restoration of elbow flexion and shoulder stability. All of these patients had sustained traumatic upper trunk brachial plexus injuries which had not responded to nerve repair, grafting or neurotisation or had a delayed presentation. Results were assessed using a goniometer and the Medical Research Council strength grading. At follow-up of 28.5 months, the average arc of elbow flexion was 103 degrees and eight had good elbow flexion power. There was one failure. We had two complications, both related to humerus fractures below the arthrodesis plate. Both united with conservative treatment. Our experience has given encouraging results with a high level of patient satisfaction. Our indications, operative technique and results are presented.
Reconstruction of the digital flexor pulley system: a retrospective comparison of two methods of treatment.	The rare injury of closed rupture of the A2 and A3 flexor pulleys was treated using two non-encircling techniques of pulley reconstruction. Thirteen patients were treated with an extensor retinaculum graft (Group A). At a mean follow-up time of 48 months, the average PIP flexion was 97%, the power grip strength 96%, the pinch grip strength 100% and the thickening 94% of the uninjured side. Ten patients were treated with a free palmaris longus tendon grafts (Group B). At a mean follow-up time of 57 months, the average PIP flexion was 94%, the power grip strength 98%, the pinch grip strength 100% and the thickening 95% of the uninjured side. In both groups, finger extension was unrestricted. The Buck Gramcko score included 10 excellent, two good and one fair result in Group A and seven excellent, two good and one fair result in Group B. Both techniques proved beneficial. All climbers returned to their previous standard and all non-climbers regained full finger dexterity in their previous job.
Possible restorations of the upper extremity motion in tetraplegic patients - 5-year clinical experience.	The aim of the work is to objectify the functional effectiveness of these operations and their influence on the quality of life of handicapped patients.
Assessment of results of opponensplasty by transfer of flexor digitorum superfitcialis tendon of the ring finger]	This study is the review of 16 hands in the same number of patients (15 men, 1 female) in whom ring finger flexor digitorum superficialis opponensplasty was performed. The patients were operated on during the period of 6 years. The lack of thumb opposition was a result of traumatic nerve leasions (5 median, 11 median and ulnar). The operation was performed 7.2 months (on average) after the nerve reconstruction. The outcome was assessed by scoring the finger to which the thumb could obtain a pinch grip (Kapandji's test), measuring the gap between thumb and little finger MCP joints, the patient's satisfaction. The sensitivity on the pulps of ring and little finger were also tested. Two patients were reoperated for loosening the transferred tendon, two patients developed minor dysfunction of the donor finger. The results were evaluated 41 weeks after an operation. As a result of the operation the "opposition gap" was diminished by 22 mm on average; the patients scoring by Kapandji's test was improved by 2 points. Eight patients assessed the improvement of the hand function as excellent, six as good, two were dissatisfied with the result.
The Cobb procedure for treatment of acquired flatfoot deformity associated with stage II insufficiency of the posterior tibial tendon.	A supple flatfoot deformity caused by posterior tibial tendon (PTT) dysfunction may include a supination deformity of the forefoot that usually is not sufficiently corrected by the commonly suggested treatment options. The use of a partial anterior tibial tendon (ATT) graft that is rerouted through the first cuneiform to the proximal stump of the PTT may restore plantarflexion power of the first ray (Cobb procedure).
Transfer of the flexor digitorum longus for the correction of lesser-toe deformities.	This study reviewed the results, complications, and patient satisfaction rates of a modified technique of flexor-to-extensor tendon transfer for correction of lesser-toe deformities.
Influence of tendon transfer site on moment arms of the flexor digitorum longus muscle.	Adult acquired flatfoot is a common condition that leads to significant morbidity. Along with bony procedures to operatively treat this condition, transfer of the flexor digitorum longus (FDL) tendon to the medial cuneiform or navicular is routinely performed. The goal of this tendon transfer is to increase the capacity of the FDL to invert the hindfoot and control the transverse tarsal joints. However, it is not known whether this biomechanical goal is met or whether one transfer site produces a larger mechanical advantage compared to another site. The purpose of this study was to calculate FDL muscle moment arms at the hindfoot with two clinically relevant transfer locations to quantify the change in mechanical advantage of the FDL after tendon transfer.
Fulkerson osteotomy for the treatment of chronic patellofemoral malalignment]	We evaluated the results of Fulkerson osteotomy in patients with chronic patellofemoral malalignment.
Arthroscopically-assisted combined anterior and posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction]	The best treatment of a combined rupture of the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments is still unclear.
Lateral and medial plantar pressures after split versus whole anterior tibialis tendon transfer.	If whole and split transfer of the anterior tibialis tendon (SPLATT) do not differ in balancing the forefoot, whole tendon transfer would provide a simpler alternative as part of treatment of an equinovarus deformity. We hypothesized that no significant differences in percent plantar lateral forefoot pressures would be observed between split and whole tendon transfer. We used a spastic model to test the hypothesis that overcorrection would not occur with whole tendon transfer.
Prospective 1-year follow-up study comparing joint prosthesis with tendon interposition arthroplasty in treatment of trapeziometacarpal osteoarthritis.	Osteoarthritis of the thumb basal joint is a common and disabling condition. This clinical follow-up study compares the efficacy of total basal joint replacement surgery with that of tendon interposition arthroplasty.
Calcaneus deformity in the ambulant patient with myelomeningocele.	We reviewed our experience of tibialis anterior transfer and anterior release for calcaneus deformity in 46 feet of 26 ambulant patients with myelomeningocele. At an average follow-up of 8.4 years (2 to 17.6) there were 89% who had satisfactory results; 64% of the patients having tibialis anterior transfers were able to stand on their toes. Hip abductor power was a good predictor of a functional transfer. Pre-operative trophic ulceration of the heel increased from 3.2% to 33% if surgery was delayed. Secondary deformities, two-thirds of them into valgus, developed in 76% of feet.
Use of the Green transfer in treatment of patients with spastic cerebral palsy: 17-year experience.	We retrospectively reviewed Green procedures and transfer of the flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) in treatment of spastic forearm pronation, wrist volarflexion, and ulnar deviation deformities. Patient's ages ranged from 3 years 5 months to 16 years 5 months. Surgically, a single volar incision was made and the extensor carpi radialis brevis and/or longus (ECRB, ECRL) were used for insertion. The FCU was tensioned at neutral against gravity and immobilized in 5 degrees of dorsiflexion and 45 degrees of supination. Arc of flexion (47 degrees) did not change but was centered about neutral. Supination improved markedly when operation included a pronator procedure. Quadraplegia athetosis and intellectual impairment did not affect the operative result adversely. Patients aged greater than 12 years showed less functional improvement. Eighty-eight percent had cosmetic improvement, and 79% improved functionally. None had a decreased functional rating.
Extensor indicis proprius opponensplasty.	An analysis of 39 patients (40 hands) who underwent an extensor indicis proprius opponensplasty was carried out. Of these, 29 hands had simultaneous adjuvant surgery to correct other deformities. The mean follow-up period was 33.8 months. Excellent or good results were seen in 87.5%, fair in 10% and poor in 2.4% hands.
Total trapeziectomy with suspension and interposition tendinoplasty for trapeziometacarpal osteoarthrisis: results at 6.5 years average follow-up]	Total trapeziectomy remains the main surgical treatment of trapeziometacarpal osteoarthritis. Little has been reported on the long-term results of this technique. We report in this study our experience with our technique of trapeziectomy associated with interposition and suspension tendinoplasty using the abductor pollicis longus tendon with 78 months average follow-up.
Primary palmaris longus transfer as an opponensplasty in carpal tunnel release. A series of 73 cases.	Seventy three Camitz-Littler operations combining carpal tunnel release and palmaris longus oppenens transfer provided 90.7% good long term results. A technical modification can provide pronation.
Median to radial nerve transfer to restore wrist and finger extension: technical nuances.	Traditional methods for restoring finger and wrist extension following radial nerve palsy include interposition nerve grafting or tendon transfers. We have described the utilization of distal nerve transfers for the restoration of radial nerve function in the forearm.
Magnetic resonance imaging and clinical findings before and after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy: a 3-year follow-up study.	Incomplete recovery after brachial plexus birth palsy often results in decreased movement and muscle imbalance about the shoulder, as rotator cuff and deltoid innervation are incomplete. Tendon transfers redistribute the forces about the joint and were thought to promote glenohumeral joint remodeling. Early reports, however, indicate limited ability to affect joint configuration. Our previous report and conclusions to this regard were based upon short follow-up. The purpose of this study was to assess the magnetic resonance imaging and clinical outcome after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy.
Plantar plate tears: a review of the modified flexor tendon transfer repair for stabilization.	Forefoot pain is one of the most common presenting problems in a foot and ankle practice. One of the most common presenting problems, yet most commonly missed problems, is a plantar plate tear. Often the problem is considered to be potential neuroma, fat pad atrophy, or a generalized diagnosis of metatarsalgia or metatarsal head overload. Unfortunately, not enough attention is placed on the plantar and medial/lateral ligamentous structures of the metatarsal-phalangeal joints. This lack of attention results in poor diagnosis, lack of care, treatment for the wrong condition, and ultimate frustration for the patients and doctor.
Treatment of posterior tibial tendon dysfunction without flexor digitorum tendon transfer: a retrospective study of 34 patients.	A retrospective study of patients who underwent gastrocnemius recession, double calcaneal osteotomy (Evans osteotomy and percutaneous calcaneal displacement osteotomy), and medial column fusion for the treatment of posterior tibial tendon dysfunction was conducted. The senior author performed the procedures between November 2002 and January 2009 on 34 patients who displayed at least Johnson and Strom stage II deformity and had undergone 12 months of failed conservative treatment. The coauthors evaluated the patients' radiographs before and after the operation. At a mean of 14 (range 3 to 44) months after surgery, radiographic measurements demonstrated statistically significant changes in the structural alignment of the feet. Based on our experience with these patients, we believe that a double calcaneal osteotomy combined with a gastrocnemius recession and stabilization of the medial column for the treatment of posterior tibial tendon dysfunction provides satisfactory correction, stability, and realignment of the foot. Furthermore, we feel that the use of flexor digitorum longus transfer, as well as triple arthrodesis, can be avoided without compromising the outcome when surgically treating posterior tibial tendon dysfunction.
Tendon transfers for peroneal palsy - functional outcome]	Patients with persistent peroneal palsy may require treatment for gait disturbances if conservative treatment is not tolerated. Transfer of the tibialis posterior tendon can restore foot extension and improve the patients gait pattern.
The results of the treatment of thumb carpometacarpal arthritis by trapezium resection and modified thumb metacarpal suspension arthroplasty]	Arthritis of the thumb carpometacarpal joint is a fairly common disorder of unclear etiology, affecting mostly women in the postmenopausal age. The results of the operative treatment of 21 patients, 20 women and 1 men in a mean age of 59 years with the disorder classified in 3rd and 4th grade in Eaton-Littler scale are presented. Operation consisted in resection of the trapezium followed by thumb metacarpal suspension arthroplasty with flexor carpi radialis tendon, using a slip of the palmaris longus tendon. At a mean follow-up of 14 months, patients achieved significant reduction of the pain at the movement of the thumb (VAS from a mean of 8.1 to 2.9), improvement in thumb's opposition (Kapandji test from 7.6 to 9.5), power of the hand increased form 42 to the 68% of the other side and function of the hand in DASH score improved form 58 to 12 points. Pinch strength did not improved after surgery. The results show effectiveness of the modified technique in the treatment of thumb carpometacarpal arthritis.
Split anterior tibial tendon transfer for varus equinus spastic foot deformity Initial clinical findings correlate with functional results: A series of 132 operated feet.	Spastic equinovarus foot deformity commonly occurs after stroke or head trauma. Management by split anterior tibial tendon transfer to the lateral border of the foot was chosen by the authors. The purpose of that work was to assess the reliability of this method to improve patient's functional autonomy and investigate the relationship between the initial clinical examination findings and the quality of the functional results. 84 feet, operated in 82 patients out of 130, of mean age 46 years, were reviewed at a mean follow-up of 65 months. Very few complications were observed. Toe deformities remain a commonly associated problem. 80 patients were able to walk barefoot, 74 reported an increase in their walking distance, and 73 could regularly wear normal shoes. There is a strong relationship (p<0.001) between the preservation of deep foot sensitivity and the level of functional autonomy.
Total ankle arthroplasty and tibialis posterior tendon transfer for ankle osteoarthritis and drop foot deformity.	Total ankle arthroplasty is an alternative to arthrodesis in selected patients with end-stage arthritis of the ankle. We report on the clinical features, radiographic findings, management and results in a 58-year-old man with associated ankle osteoarthritis and drop foot deformity. The patient was managed with a total ankle arthroplasty and tibialis posterior tendon transfer. Three years after the procedure, the patient was able to walk, had no pain, and had a stable joint with 5 dorsiflexion and 20 plantar flexion.
Management of facial paralysis in the 21st century.	Facial paralysis is a clinical entity associated with significant morbidity, which has a treatment paradigm that is continually evolving. Surgical management of the paralyzed face poses significant challenges to achieve the goal of returning patients to their premorbid states. Here we attempt to review the advances in facial reanimation, in particular with regards to chronic facial paralysis. These include recent developments in static and dynamic rehabilitation including advances like artificial muscles for eyelid reconstruction, dynamic muscle transfer for the eye, and orthodromic temporalis tendon transfer.
Chronic Achilles tendon rupture reconstruction using a free semitendinosus tendon graft transfer.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes following reconstruction of the chronic Achilles tendon ruptures with large gaps (>6cm) using free semitendinosus tendon graft transfer.
Partial extensor carpi radialis longus turn-over tendon transfer for reconstruction of the extensor pollicis longus tendon in the rheumatoid hand: case report.	Reconstruction of a distally ruptured extensor pollicis longus tendon in the rheumatoid patient generally involves a tendon transfer or intercalary graft. We present an alternative technique using the radial half of the extensor carpi radialis longus as a turn-over graft. Using the turn-over technique with a half-slip of the extensor carpi radialis longus avoids the traditional limitations of the extensor carpi radialis longus tendon in distal extensor pollicis longus tendon repairs and precludes the need for a free tendon graft.
Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a systematic review.	Massive and irreparable posterior-superior rotator cuff tears present a difficult treatment problem. The purpose of this systematic review was to critically examine the outcomes of latissimus dorsi tendon transfers for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears.
Peroneus brevis tendon transfer for reconstruction of chronic tears of the Achilles tendon: a long-term follow-up study.	Chronic tears of the Achilles tendon can result in substantial loss of function. Those tears with a tendon gap of up to 6.5 cm can be treated surgically with use of an autologous peroneus brevis tendon graft.
Free gracilis tendon graft for reconstruction of chronic tears of the Achilles tendon.	Chronic tears of the Achilles tendon with a tendon gap exceeding 6 cm are a surgical challenge. The purpose of this study is to report the long-term results of reconstruction of such chronic Achilles tendon ruptures with use of a free autologous gracilis tendon graft.
Flexor digitorum superficialis opposition tendon transfer improves hand function in children with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease: case series.	Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease limits hand function. Tendon transfer has not been reported in pediatric CMT. We report two severely affected children following long finger flexor digitorum superficialis opposition tendon transfer. Improvement was noted in palmar abduction, (30/40), opposition, (thumb to all digits), and acquisition of pincer, palmar, and lateral pinch with measureable force (1 lb). Dexterity testing improved on the 9 Hole Peg Test (1.03 s/77 s, 22 s) and Functional Dexterity Test (13 s/33 s, 88 s). Functional improvements were observed in self feeding, clothing management, and play. These cases support flexor digitorum superficialis opposition tendon transfer surgery to improve hand function in children with CMT.
Combined glenoid anteversion osteotomy and tendon transfers for brachial plexus birth palsy: early outcomes.	In the setting of severe glenohumeral dysplasia secondary to brachial plexus birth palsy, external rotation osteotomy of the humerus has traditionally been used to transpose the existing arc of shoulder motion to a more functional position. Here we introduce a surgical alternative, the aim of which is to gain stable reduction of the shoulder and restore active external rotation.
Operative treatment of chronic irreparable Achilles tendon ruptures with large flexor hallucis longus tendon transfers.	Transfer of the flexor hallucis longus (FHL) tendon aims to restore function and relieve pain in chronic Achilles tendon (AT) disease. The goal of the present study was to investigate the clinical and radiographic outcomes of FHL transfer to the AT and to compare the transtendinous technique to the transosseous technique. We hypothesized that the type of technique would have a notable impact on outcome.
Tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears.	Tendon transfer is one treatment option for patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Although surgical indications are not clearly defined, the traditional thought is that the ideal candidate is young and lacks significant glenohumeral arthritis. The proposed benefits of tendon transfers are pain relief and potential increase in strength. The biomechanical rationale for the procedure is to restore the glenohumeral joint force couple and possibly to restore normal shoulder kinematics. The selection of donor tendon depends on the location of the rotator cuff deficiency. Transfers of latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major tendons have been shown to consistently improve pain; however, functional benefits are unpredictable. Trapezius tendon transfer may be an alternative in patients with massive posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, although longer-term follow-up is required. 
Use of the clavicular part of the pectoralis major in treatment of failed revision osteosynthesis of the clavicle.	Symptomatic atrophic nonunion after multiple clavicle osteosynthesis can be difficult to treat. The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of a transfer of the clavicular part of the pectoralis major muscle as augmentation of osteosynthesis of these nonunions.
Supernumerary flexor carpi ulnaris--case report and review.	Anomalies of Flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) are uncommon and predominantly consist of abnormal insertion or extra tendinous bands. The presence of two separate bellies of FCU muscle with separate tendons has been termed as Digastric FCU. It is a very rare anomaly with only six previously reported cases and no report of clinical use of such anomalous muscle. We describe a case of anomalous FCU found incidentally in a patient operated for complex Post Volkmann's ischemic contracture deficits. On table each head of FCU was found to form separate belly and tendon. One tendon was used for the thumb opposition while the other for index finger flexion. Postoperatively, the patient had independent movement of thumb and index finger. This is the first reported case of clinical application of digastric FCU. We reviewed the literature for supernumerary FCU in general and digastric FCU in particular. We propose a new classification for supernumerary FCUs based on the clinical appearance and the probable embryological basis of the anomaly: Type 1 (Split tendons)--single muscle with two tendons; Type 2 (Digastric FCU)--for each head of FCU forming separate muscle bellies and tendons; and Type 3 (Accessory FCU)--abnormal muscle adjacent to normal FCU with combined features of FCU and Palmaris longus.
Tendon transfers for radial, median, and ulnar nerve palsy.	Tendon transfers are used to restore balance and function to a paralyzed, injured, or absent neuromuscular-motor unit. In general, tendon transfer is indicated for restoration of muscle function after peripheral nerve injury, injury to the brachial plexus or spinal cord, or irreparable injury to tendon or muscle. The goal is to improve the balance of a neurologically impaired hand. In the upper extremity, tendon transfers are most commonly used to restore function following injury to the radial, median, and ulnar nerves. An understanding of the general principles of tendon transfer is important to maximize the outcome. 
Acromioclavicular injuries in professional athletes]	Acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) dislocations represent the most frequent injuries of the shoulder girdle among athletes. Low grade injuries are more common than high grade injuries. Possible injury mechanisms are either a direct trauma to the shoulder or a fall on an adducted elbow with indirect trauma to the ACJ.
Zone I extensor reconstruction with tendon salvaged from another finger.	Laceration, crush, and avulsion injuries are common acute extensor tendon injuries. Simple lacerations may often be repaired in the emergency room, but crush or avulsion injuries may involve tendon loss and gaps in the extensor tendons. Reconstruction can be difficult. The purpose of this article is to present a salvage technique for reconstruction of large extensor tendon gaps in extensor zone I in patients with severe injuries to multiple fingers. This technique, in which a tendon is transplanted from an unsalvageable finger to another with a terminal tendon gap in the same patient, may be a reasonable remedy for reconstruction of tendon loss or gaps and may offer advantages over other traditional reconstructive techniques in certain cases. 
Tibialis posterior tendon transfer corrects the foot drop component of cavovarus foot deformity in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.	The foot drop component of cavovarus foot deformity in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is commonly treated by tendon transfer to provide substitute foot dorsiflexion or by tenodesis to prevent the foot from dropping. Our goals were to use three-dimensional foot analysis to evaluate the outcome of tibialis posterior tendon transfer to the dorsum of the foot and to investigate whether the transfer works as an active substitution or as a tenodesis.
Biomechanical assessment of flexible flatfoot correction: comparison of techniques in a cadaver model.	Options for surgical correction of acquired flexible flatfoot deformity involve bone and soft-tissue reconstruction. We used an advanced cadaver model to evaluate the ability of key surgical procedures to correct the deformity and to resist subsequent loss of correction.
Blood supply of the upper extremity muscles as related to functional tendon transfers.	For a given function to be restored, we feel that a "low risk" muscle should be employed in preference to a "high risk" muscle. If a "high risk" muscle must be used, a knowledge of its segmental blood supply should lead one to proceed with careful dissection (even under magnification), wider exposure, and preservation of every possible distal pedicle. We would strongly discourage blind "stripping" of the muscle belly in "high risk" muscles. This technique could be employed almost with impunity in the "low risk" muscles. We realize that this is a static, purely anatomic study with a new, theoretical viewpoint of tendon transfer techniques. Other factors must be considered (expendability, muscle strength, synergism, and amplitude). However, we feel that results may be improved through application of these detailed anatomic data. We have attempted to better delineate the blood supply to the muscles of the upper extremity. This knowledge may help improve our results in functional tendon transfer procedures.
Suture of the Achilles tendon with a reinforcing-plasty--experiences with 30 primary sutures of Achilles tendon ruptures]	We analysed 32 patients with fresh Achilles tendon rupture. 30 operations with a special primary suture and plasty of the fascia triceps muscle. Most of the patients were content with the operative treatment and the functional result. We saw one wound infection and one wound rand necrosis. The objective controls of OSG foot function and the muscle activity is good.
Spontaneous rupture of the extensor pollicis longus]	A review of the literature is followed by the analysis of a series of forty-four patients who were treated by extensor indicis transposition. Twenty-five patients could be reached for a clinical follow-up examination, nine further patients were interviewed by telephone; of the remaining ten patients, seven could not be reached and three had died. Excluded from the series were patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Results were evaluated according to the scheme suggested by Geldmacher and coworkers. According to their evaluation scheme, we can report fourteen excellent, eight good, three satisfactory, and no bad results. Subjectively, the results were even better, with twenty-eight patients reporting excellent, four good, and two satisfactory results, including those nine patients contacted by telephone only. Strength of extension of the index finger was not diminished after the extensor indicis transposition when all fingers were extended simultaneously. However, there was a deficit of extension in a few cases when the remaining fingers were clenched to a fist. This indicates that an alternative method should probably be recommended in patients with professions where individual extension of the index finger is of paramount importance. It is also suggested that additional functional tests, convertible into score points, might render the evaluation more realistic than measurements only. Inclusion of these additional functional tests might also give an explanation for the discrepancy between patients' subjective results and those as a result of measurement only.
Calcaneal osteotomy and tendon sling for the management of calcaneus deformity.	A one-stage operation for severe post-poliomyelitic calcaneus deformity was done in seventy-seven feet of seventy-seven patients. The operation consisted of osteotomizing the calcaneus to increase the lever arm and to reshape the hind part of the foot and using a posterior sling formed from the peroneus brevis and tibialis posterior to provide plantar-flexion power. We were able to evaluate sixty-six patients more than three years after the operation. Most of the patients had improvement in the appearance and function of the foot as a result of the operation.
Results of transfer of the flexor digitorum superficialis tendons to the flexor digitorum profundus tendons in adults with acquired spasticity of the hand.	Thirty-one patients who had transfer of the flexor digitorum superficialis tendons to the flexor digitorum profundus tendons en masse in thirty-four non-functional spastic hands were examined at an average of fifty months postoperatively. All of the patients had had a clenched-fist deformity preoperatively, with severe hygienic problems of the palmar skin and no active function of the hand. Postoperatively, all of the hands were in an open position, which allowed for good hygiene of the palmar surface. A minor wound infection developed in three patients. Neurectomy of the motor branch of the ulnar nerve distal to the Guyon canal was needed for control of spasticity of the intrinsic muscles in twenty-five hands. An intrinsic-minus deformity did not develop in any of the hands that had neurectomy of the ulnar nerve, although an intrinsic-plus deformity developed in seven of the nine hands that did not have a neurectomy.
Reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament. A 5-year follow-up of 89 patients.	In all, 112 consecutive patients were operated on because of chronic insufficiency of the anterior cruciate ligament. The surgical procedure used was an intraarticular reconstruction using the medial third of the patellar ligament. Eighty-nine patients were reexamined 5 (2-11) years after the reconstruction. Eighty percent of the patients were satisfied, but most of them had discontinued strenuous sports. The best results were observed in individuals with normal demands on their knee function.
Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff. A preliminary report.	Symptomatic irrepairable rotator cuff tears usually entail complete loss of the substance of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. Loss of external rotation control and cranial migration of the humeral head on attempted flexion or abduction of the shoulder are the functional hallmarks. Transfer of the latissimus dorsi tendon from the humeral shaft to the superolateral humeral head provides a large, vascularized tendon that can be used to close a massive cuff defect and that exerts an external rotation and head-depressing moment that allow more effective action of the deltoid muscle. This procedure was carried out in 14 patients without any significant complications. Pain relief and functional results in those four cases with a minimum follow-up period of one year (average, 14 months) compared favorably with alternative treatment methods and warrant further anatomic, electromyographic, and clinical investigation.
Long-term follow-up of the flexor carpi ulnaris transfer in spastic hemiplegic children.	A retrospective study was performed on 25 patients with cerebral palsy who underwent transfer of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the radial wrist extendors. The mean age at the time of surgery was 8 years 1 month. The mean follow-up was 8 years 7 months. At follow-up, the mean active wrist dorsiflexion was 44.2 degrees, palmar flexion was 19.0 degrees, supination was 40.2 degrees, and pronation was 53.4 degrees. According to a modification of Green's evaluation system, there were six excellent, nine good, five fair, and five poor results. Two patients required further surgery to correct a supination, dorsiflexion contracture. We found the transfer to be quite effective in improving wrist dorsiflexion, although there was often a significant loss of active palmar flexion postoperatively. The patient therefore should have good digital extension (with the wrist extended passively above neutral) to be considered for the transfer.
Transposition of the tendo calcaneus for post-traumatic bone defects of the tibia.	Certain post-traumatic defects of the lower extremity present difficult problems in therapy and current methods of management do not offer satisfactory solutions. One such defect is an ulcerative lesion of the lower limb eroding the tibia and forming a chronic, rigid-walled cavity. We describe an operation in which the bone cavity is filled by viable tissue which acts as a bed for a skin graft. In chronic stasis ulcers it has been established that the tendo calcaneus will accept a skin graft, provided the paratenon is left undisturbred.
Biomechanical evaluation of superficial transfer of the biceps femoris tendon.	The biomechanics of the biceps femoris tendon transfer were determined from four fresh, frozen extremities. All transfers involved the proximal and anterior advancement of a selected portion of the tendon to a position superficial to the lateral collateral ligament. The rotational torque and flexion force were measured before and after the transfer with the knee positioned at 10 degrees, 20 degrees, 30 degrees, and 45 degrees of flexion, in neutral and 5 degrees internal rotation. Although more specimens need to be tested for statistical confirmation, the transfer of the superficial portion of the biceps tendon resulted in average decreases of 2% and 15% in the rotational and flexion capacity of the biceps, respectively. Biomechanically, the functional lever arm of the transferred tendon about the longitudinal (internal-external rotation) axis was essentially unchanged, while the functional lever arm about the sagittal (flexion-extension) axis was decreased slightly. The total transfer of the biceps tendon resulted in an increase of 28% in the rotational capacity, while the flexion capability was decreased an average of 75%. In addition, the total transfer resulted in the biceps becoming an extensor at 10 degrees and 20 degrees of flexion, which could actually worsen the instability. Thus, following the total transfer, the functional level arm about the sagittal axis was decreased, while the functional lever arm about the longitudinal axis was increased. In summary, neither the partial nor the total transfer of the biceps femoris tendon superficial and anterior to the fibular collateral ligament appeared to be a biomechanically effective ancillary for the treatment of anterolateral rotatory instability.
Posterior tibial-tendon transfer in patients with cerebral palsy.	The results of fifty-seven posterior tibial-tendon transfers through the interosseous membrane to the dorsum of the foot that were performed in fifty-one patients who had cerebral palsy, and who were followed for a mean of 9.3 years (range, five to twenty-six years), were evaluated in terms of pattern of gait, alignment of the foot, formation of callus on the sole of the foot, and requirements for bracing. A good or excellent result was achieved in twenty-seven of thirty feet in the hemiplegic patients, twelve of sixteen feet in the paraplegic patients, and two of eleven feet in the quadriplegic patients. We found that in order for the tendon transfer to be successful the foot had to be passively correctable to at least a neutral position and that the tendon had to be passed superficial to the extensor retinaculum and inserted into the lateral cuneiform bone. The heel cord should be lengthened before the tendon transfer.
Doubled semitendinosusplasty in the replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament]	Sport injuries very often carry on ruptures of the anterior crucial ligament. Our operative method for compensation is a double tendon procedure of the Semitendinosus-Tendon. In this way it is possible to raise the stability of the knee.
Abductor pollicis longus transfer for replacement of first dorsal interosseous.	One of the tendinous slips of the abductor pollicis longus has been used to replace the first dorsal interosseous. One of the slips which does not insert on the first metacarpal is prolonged by a tendon graft through a subcutaneous tunnel to the insertion of the first dorsal interosseous. This technique has been used in 18 patients who have been followed from 2 to 12 years. All patients had improved stability in pinch, were able to abduct and to flex the index finger independently, and were satisfied with the results. No significant complications were encountered.
Retrofibular transfer of tibialis posterior to control residual adduction deformity of clubfoot.	The tibialis posterior muscle was transferred behind the fibula through the peroneal muscles and anchored in the fourth intermetatarsal cleft as an adjuvant step in postero-medial release to control the adduction deformity of the forefoot in clubfeet. The results of this procedure were compared after five years with conventional methods, including postero-medial release alone, in ten identical bilateral clubfeet. The immediate and late correction of the adductus deformity were significantly improved by this additional operation.
Robert Jones Lecture, 1979. The reconstructive surgery of flaccid paralysis.	A flaccid paralysis results from damage to any part of the lower motor neurone, from destruction of the anterior horn cell by poliomyelitis to injury of the peripheral axon by trauma or disease. Reconstructive surgery can do much to alleviate the residual paralysis. The indications and timing for surgery are considered. Certain well-tried operative techniques are described, from tendon transplantation to arthrodeses of joints, and the relative merits of each procedure are evaluated and placed in perspective.
Paralysis of the inner thumb muscles. Treatment by tendon transfer]	The management of paralysis of the intrinsic muscles of the thumb by tendon transfers cannot be realized by indiscriminate application of standard operations. For each of the three types of paralysis i. e.: -- paralysis of the external muscles of the thumb -- paralysis of the internal muscles of the thumb and -- combined paralysis of the external and internal muscles of the thumb, exists a different indication and for each one of the three elements of the procedure, namely: -- choice of the motor-muscle, -- location of the pulley and -- fixation of the transfer, the operative modalities must be adapted to each type of paralysis.
Posterior cruciate ligament injuries. Results of early surgical repair.	A retrospective study of 20 patients (19 men and one woman) with clinical diagnosis of posterior cruciate ligament injuries (seen between December 1969 and September 1977) was conducted. Eighteen patients underwent surgery an average of 2.6 days after injury. Tears of the posterior cruciate ligament were confirmed in all patients and a high incidence of associated ligamentous injuries was noted. No cases of truly isolated posterior cruciate injury were found. The posterior drawer sign was the most accurate test for posterior cruciate disruption. Torn posterior cruciate ligaments, as well as associated ligamentous injuries, were repaired to bone when possible. Irreparable disruptions or unstable repairs were reinforced with dynamic tendon transfers. We prefer to use as a tendon transfer the medial one-third of the medial head of the gastrocnemius because it provides static posterior drawer resistance and functions dynamically. The average follow-up period was 30.8 months. A comparison of preoperative and follow-up stability was made and it revealed that all patients exhibited mild residual instability. A functional rating showed that seven patients had excellent results, seven had good, three had fair, and one patient had poor results among those surgically treated. One patient treated conservatively rated good. The other one was lost to followup. The results of our study demonstrate that early surgical repair with dynamic augmentation, as indicated, can lead to acceptable functional results in the majority of knees with posterior cruciate ligament injury.
Complications in 283 cruciate ligament replacement operations with free patellar tendon transplantation. Modification by surgical technique and surgery timing]	In our retrospective study we reviewed 283 patients who were operated on between 1984 and 1993 after an ACL-rupture. We used a free patellar tendon bone graft in all patients. The aim was to assess the complications such as infections, thrombosis, limitation of movement and graft failures. We also looked on the timing of operation and the technique. We saw an overall complication rate of 21.6%. The most common complication was a restricted range of motion in 10.9% which required surgery. In patients treated immediately after injury (within 7 days) we found an arthrofibrosis rate of 17.6%. In delayed surgery (more than 4 weeks after injury) this complication was only seen in 6.1%. The rate of infection was 4.6%, the rate of thrombosis 1.8% and in 4,2% we had to accept an ongoing instability. With these findings we now evaluate the needs and the social environment even more closely to find the best treatment protocol for each individual. In conclusion we favour secondary ACL-reconstruction.
Posterior iliopsoas muscle transfer in myelodysplasia.	A Sharrard posterior iliopsoas muscle-transfer procedure was done in forty-two hips of twenty-four children with myelodysplasia. Folow-up ranged from twenty-nine months to approximately ten years. An over-all success rate of 50 per cent was achieved which included all hips operated on for potential and existing instability. The success rate for surgery in hips with an existing instability was 29.6 per cent. Factors predisposing to a poor result were: age more than five years old, dysplastic acetabulum (index more than 30 degrees), prior hip surgery, and inequality of limb length. This operation is recommended primarily for hips not previously operated on in children less than five years old who have a normal acetabular index. If the child is more than five years old or if acetabular dysplasia exists, reconstruction of the acetabulum should precede or accompany the tendon transfer for best results. Iliopsoas muscle transfer is unlikely to be successful if used as a salvage procedure.
Replacement of the trapezium for arthritis of the basal articulations: a new technique with stabilization by tenodesis.	Forty-six patients (fifty hands) had replacement of the trapezium by a silicone implant that incorporated a local tendon strip to stabilize the device. The patients had intractable pain due to degenerative changes of multiple facets of the trapezium. The over-all rate of subluxation and dislocation was 10 per cent. In all hands, pain-free improved movement resulted. The pinch strength approximated the normal, averaging six kilograms for women and eight kilograms for men.
Simple and composite ulnar transplants in reconstructive surgery of the hand]	Over several years, the authors have devised a technique for compound island transplants of ulnar origin, harvested from the forearm's lower third, with reverse flow vascularization. Because of the variety of arterial ramifications, these transplants can consist: either of a simple cutaneous, superficial flexor tendon or ulnar fragment transplant, or, when associated, of compound cutaneous-tendinous, cutaneous-osseous and even cutaneous-tendinous-osseous transplants. These transplants, based on the clinical experience of 192 cases, can be used by retrograde rotation for a variety of indications, such as loss of skin cover, digital surface reconstruction or treatment of scaphoid pseudoarthrosis. But their main indication, as it represents a basic difference with other retrograde flaps, is the possibility of an island transplant of several superficial flexors complete with sheats, for the reconstruction of the fingers' flexing system in a single surgical act. This is all the more interesting as it is still technically possible to combine it with a cutaneous flap, so that the tendinous and cutaneous problems can be solved simultaneously. This technique permits reconstruction of the fingers' flexor system based on another concept, i.e. by using a vascularized tendinous transplant, and under different conditions since a single surgical act is required, thus saving long periods of sick leave, with functional results which compare with those of traditional techniques.
Pes planus in childhood due to tibialis posterior tendon injuries. Treatment by flexor hallucis longus tendon transfer.	Flat foot due to rupture of the tibialis posterior tendon has not previously been described in children. We present three young patients who developed unilateral pes planus after old undiagnosed lacerations of the tendon. Transfer of the flexor hallucis longus to the distal stump of the tibialis posterior tendon achieved good results in all three cases.
Anterior transfer of the toe flexors for equinovarus deformity due to hemiplegia.	We report the results of transfer of the long toe flexors and lengthening of the calcaneal tendon in 33 patients with equinovarus deformity requiring orthoses after a stroke. Review of 29 patients more than two years after surgery showed that 21 were able to walk without an orthosis. Equinovarus deformity had recurred in six patients and hammer toe in 11, but walking ability without bracing was still better in seven of these. Results are improved by the release of the short toe flexors.
A fixational method of tendon transfer in foot surgery.	Tendon transfer has been used for correcting foot deformities and improving foot function in paralytic and spastic foot problems. The traditional fixational method by Cole's pull-out button often induces pressure sores which make the button sink and loosens the transferred tendon, leading to poor surgical results. By using a metal eye cover and pull-out wire instead of button and suture material, the transferred tendon can be firmly fixed. Moreover, the concavity of the metal eye cover is suitable for the arch of the foot that provides a large contact surface & even pressure distribution to prevent the most common complications of the pull-out button method, the pressure sore.
Histologic studies of replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament with PDS-augmented patellar tendon transplants]	The bone-patellar tendon-bone graft is currently the best substitute for the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). To improve the results we compared a modified Jones procedure with an additional PDS augmentation. In 25 sheep the ACL was reconstructed in the left knee after total resection. The only resection of the ACL was done in all right knees. One year postoperative 21 sheep remained in the experiment and came to evaluation. There were 10 modified Jones procedures and 11 PDS augmentations. In both groups, the central one-third of the patellar tendon was implanted through a femoral and tibial drill hole for reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament. The transplants were fixed on both ends with a 1-mm cord of polydioxanon (PDS), a soft preload of 50 N was given with a spring balance and the ends of the cords were fixed with a screw and a washer. In the second group we did an additional augmentation with a doubled cord of 2 mm PDS. Early mobilization and weight-bearing was allowed. Throughout the observation period all animals were labelled for fluorescence microscopy. One year after resection of the ACL without reconstruction there were totally destroyed joints. Histology showed damaged menisci and joint surfaces without any cartilage as a sign of severe arthrosis. The macroscopic aspect of the transplants showed strong ligaments coated totally by a synovial membrane with good vascularization. Only little signs of degeneration were to be seen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two-line triceps surae augmentation-plasty. An alternative treatment concept in surgery of Achilles tendon rupture]	From January 1990 to December 1992 a total of 62 patients with subcutaneous Achilles tendon ruptures underwent surgical treatment. The majority of ruptures were caused by sports injuries. In a retrospective study, 25 cases who had a two-line triceps surae augmentation graft in addition to standard repair were evaluated. The functional results after 6-24 months were studied with reference to the patients' activity and graded according to the classification of Trillat. This alternative treatment concept gave excellent functional results. Surgical treatment of Achilles tendon ruptures, if necessary for reconstruction with a primary graft for augmentation, remains the appropriate therapy.
Comparison of perioperative morbidity of anterior cruciate ligament autografts versus allografts.	We present a retrospective report of 50 patients (31 autograft and 19 allograft patients) who underwent arthroscopic bone-patellar tendon-bone anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructions between August 1988 and September 1990. All patients were followed for a minimum of 2 years. The purpose of this study was to analyze each group regarding hospital stay, swelling, thigh atrophy, laxity, strength, endurance, range of motion, patellofemoral symptoms, and complications. We found no statistical difference between autograft or allograft ACL reconstructions with regard to perioperative morbidity.
Rupture of the patellar ligament--a late complication after removal of a bone-tendon-bone transplant as cruciate ligament replacement]	Ruptures of the patellar ligament have been observed in surgery for complete substitution of the knee joint and with application of the operation method according to Roux and Goldwilde; ruptures of this ligament after removal of a graft cruciate ligament substitution have been described very rarely. Since 1990 we have been practicing the method of autologous substitution of the cruciate ligament by using material from the median part of the patellar ligament. In one patient treated by this method who had displayed no complications during 10 months after the operation a new adequate trauma resulted in rupture of the patellar ligament at its tibial insertion. As far as we can assess on the basis of available technical literature, such injury might be due to problems of paraligamentary blood supply, partial or complete resection of the infrapatellar fatty tissue additionally contributing to lasting vascular damage.
The healing process after cruciate ligament repair in the sheep model]	The patellar tendon autograft is widely used in cruciate ligament replacement. Knowledge of the basic processes involved in graft healing and of factors regulating the healing process is still limited. The patellar tendon and cruciate ligament are morphologically and biochemically distinct, which reflects the different mechanical forces acting on them. Based on morphological studies in posterior cruciate ligament replacement in a sheep model, the patellar tendon autograft undergoes a remarkable transformation process during healing. Distinct healing phases similar to those in would healing can be differentiated. During the phase of necrosis and degeneration the graft tissue becomes disorganized and mechanically weak. During the following phase of revitalization, which is characterized by revascularization, cellular proliferation and formation of collagen and other components of the extracellular matrix, the mechanical properties gradually improve. Even after the phase of remodeling the autograft tissue differs structurally and mechanically from a ligament, suggesting that the autograft only heals to a scar-like replacement tissue. The lack of a fascicular structure, the widespread presence of type III collagen and fibronectin, and the predominance of thin collagen fibrils correlate with a maximum stress of 60% and an elastic modulus of 70% compared with control values. In the sheep model cartilage alterations in the treated knees are similar to those in controls even though reconstruction of the posterior cruciate ligament cannot restore joint stability of controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Therapy of posterior and posterolateral knee instability]	The natural course after posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) tear is a slow process of degeneration starting in the medial compartment. Functional disability is mainly present in those instabilities that are combined with posterolateral insufficiency. The surgical treatment at present mainly addresses these combined types of posterior-posterolateral instability. It is generally agreed that suture of the torn PCL alone is insufficient and augmentation with autologous structures, such as the patellar ligament, are mandatory. Synthetic augmentation to facilitate after treatment is another adjunct. Because of the difficulty of precise tibial tunnel placement a two-stage procedure is advocated, an anterior approach with the patient supine being used for femoral graft placement. If a posterior approach with the patient prone is used, a straight posterior incision is made between the two heads of the gastrocnemius and the neuromuscular bundle. With this approach the tibial bone block is placed in a trough. The accuracy of graft placement and the immediate functional aftertreatment facilitated by the use of osseous fixation of a synthetic augmentation device at both ends have made better results of surgical reconstruction of the PCL possible.
Basal joint arthritis: trapeziectomy with ligament reconstruction and tendon interposition arthroplasty.	This article provides a qualitative and quantitative outcomes assessment of a consecutive series of 27 patients (30 thumbs) with basal joint arthritis of the thumb undergoing ligament reconstruction and tendon interposition arthroplasty. Outcome analysis revealed that 24 (89%) patients were satisfied with the relief of pain provided by the arthroplasty and 23 (87%) would undergo surgery again. Eighteen (67%) thumbs were noted to have improvement in the ability to perform activities of daily living. Significant improvements were noted in web space measurements and in grip and pinch strength determination. X-ray film assessment using the trapezial space ratio averaged 0.33 +/- 0.08 in preoperative x-ray films of thumbs with stage III and IV degenerative arthritis and 0.23 +/- 0.07 in thumbs following basal joint arthroplasty. This represents a total decrease of 51% in the trapezial space ratio following arthroplasty compared to the normal values obtained in previous studies and 33% compared to the preoperative values obtained in this study. Outcomes assessment at a mean of 42 months after surgery showed that there was no significant correlation between maintenance of trapezial height and both objective and subjective clinical outcomes. Although ligament reconstruction consistently failed to restore trapezial height, primary and secondary clinical outcomes following basal joint arthritis were almost uniformly satisfactory.
Surgical management of soft tissue sarcomas: principles of resection and reconstructive plastic procedures]	1. Adequate complete surgical resection with a oncologic radical or wide margin of normal tissue represents the most important measure to prevent a local recurrence. Limited excision with "shelling-out" of the tumor, through its "pseudocapsule" almost invariably means positive microscopic margins. The pathohistologically or macroscopically marginal or intralesional positive resection margins make a salvage surgery necessary. 2. A close safety margin of < 1 cm due to neighboured anatomic structures indicates a high risk of local recurrence and makes an adjuvant radiotherapy mandatory. Plastic-reconstructive surgery should prepare the radiotherapy fields, to avoid cavities or ulcerations. 3. Facts should be stated in the clinical record and the operation report, e.g. the safety margin should be defined by the surgeon and the pathologist; the histopathologic stage and grade are absolutely basic requirements. If necessary, a second histopathologic review should be asked for. 4. Tumor resection and reconstructive oncoplastic measures should correspond individually to the oncologic parameters, to the functional demands and to the age of the patient. 5. Multidisciplinary cooperation in a tumorboard is a precondition for an adequate treatment.
Transfer of posterior tibial muscle to the back of the foot: an original procedure for fixing the transplant]	The purpose of the study was to adjust a palliative transfer using the Tibialis Posterior (TP) tendon in case of foot dorsiflexion palsy. The surgical procedure emphasized some functional features, in an attempt to lessen parasitical motion of the foot in abduction or in adduction when patients bear the ankle joint in dorsiflexion, and to strengthen the transfer.
