Tendon transfer fixation: comparing a tendon to tendon technique vs. bioabsorbable interference-fit screw fixation.	Tendon transfer techniques in the foot and ankle are used for tendon ruptures, deformities, and instabilities. This fresh cadaver study compares the tendon fixation strength in 10 paired specimens by performing a tendon to tendon fixation technique or using 7 x 20-25 mm bioabsorbable interference-fit screw tendon fixation technique. Load at failure of the tendon to tendon fixation method averaged 279N (Standard Deviation 81N) and the bioabsorbable screw 148N (Standard Deviation 72N) [p = 0.0008]. Bioabsorbable interference-fit screws in these specimens show decreased fixation strength relative to the traditional fixation technique. However, the mean bioabsorbable screw fixation strength of 148N provides physiologic strength at the tendon-bone interface.
The short-term effect of an anchor in treatment of congenital vertical talus in infants.	To investigate the short-term effect of a mini anchor in treatment of congenital vertical talus (CVT) in infants.
Fluoroscopic assist in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.	When creating the femoral tunnel during endoscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, the potential exists for penetration of the posterior femoral cortex. In addition, during placement of the proximal fixation screw, the screw can deviate from its intended path. We have used an image intensifier intraoperatively to obtain a lateral view of the knee to enable the assessment of tunnel placement and screw alignment. This technique assures the accurate placement of the tibial and femoral tunnels and helps avoid screw divergence from the graft.
Effect of varying angles on the pullout strength of interference screw fixation.	Arthroscopically assisted reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee using a bone-patellar tendon-bone graft is a new and evolving technique. One technically demanding aspect involves the placement under arthroscopic visualization of the femoral interference screw. The effect on pullout strength of changing the angle of the interference screw from 0 degree to 10 degrees, 20 degrees, or 30 degrees with respect to the bone plug was examined. The mean pullout strengths were 621 +/- 82, 594 +/- 48, 508 +/- 66, and 485 +/- 62 N, respectively. We concluded that there was no significant difference in the tensile strength provided by interference screw fixation for angles up to 10 degrees, but that there was a significant (p = 0.0010) weakening of fixation for screw angles > or = 20 degrees.
Indications for anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction--current surgical techniques, choice of transplant]	At present there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the natural history of ruptures of the ACL. The literature reveals that a significant number of secondary meniscus lesions and chondral damage results, when a high activity level is maintained. Reconstruction of the ACL now improves objective stability and decreases the meniscectomy rate in a large number of cases. Replacement with a patellar tendon or semitendinosus graft and augmented repair give better results than primary suture of the ligament. A limited arthrotomy or an arthroscopic technique should be used for reconstruction of the ACL. Two tunnel techniques with a lateral incision and single incision techniques with a femoral half tunnel are used. There is no consensus at present on the optimal graft source and surgical technique for ACL reconstruction.
Replacement of the posterior cruciate ligament and Clancy biceps tenodesis. Technique and results]	Operative treatment of chronic combined posterior/posterolateral knee instability is difficult. If the osseous anatomy of the leg causes a varus loading of the knee, we perform a high tibial valgus osteotomy as first step. Since 1988 we have been using a special drill guide system for reconstruction of the posterior cruciate ligament. The tunnels are drilled with the instruments placed through the notch and with image intensifier control. We prefer a bone-tendon-bone-patellar tendon autograft or allograft for replacement of the posterior cruciate ligament. The procedure is combined with a biceps tenodesis as described by Clancy. Rerouting of the biceps tendon over the origin of the lateral collateral ligament puts tension on the posterolateral corner and augments the collateral ligament. It was possible to review 16 out of 18 cases treated in this way at an average of 18 months after surgery. Preoperatively, all had a 2 to 3+ posterior drawer and a reversed pivot shift. At follow-up, 10 had a 1+ posterior drawer, 3 a 1-2+ drawer and 3 a 2+ drawer; 5 patients still had a reversed shift. KT-1000 measurements revealed 8 mm (4-12 mm) posterior translation. The Lysholm Score averaged 83 points and the Tegner Score 4.0 at follow-up.
