Size and blood flow of central and peripheral arteries in highly trained able-bodied and disabled athletes.	In a cross-sectional study, central and peripheral arteries were investigated noninvasively in high-performance athletes and in untrained subjects. The diastolic inner vessel diameter (D) of the thoracic and abdominal aorta, the subclavian artery (Sub), and common femoral artery (Fem) were determined by duplex sonography in 18 able-bodied professional tennis players, 34 able-bodied elite road cyclist athletes, 26 athletes with paraplegia, 17 below-knee amputated athletes, and 30 able-bodied, untrained subjects. The vessel cross-sectional areas (CSA) were set in relation to body surface area (BSA), and the cross-section index (CS-index = CSA/BSA) was calculated. Volumetric blood flow was determined in Sub and Fem via a pulsed-wave Doppler system and was set in relation to heart rate to calculate the stroke flow. A significantly increased D of Sub was found in the racket arm of able-bodied tennis players compared with the opposite arm (19%). Fem of able-bodied road cyclist athletes and of the intact limb in below-knee amputated athletes showed similar increases. D of Fem was lower in athletes with paraplegia (37%) and in below-knee amputated athletes proximal to the lesion (21%) compared with able-bodied, untrained subjects; CS-indexes were reduced 57 and 31%, respectively. Athletes with paraplegia demonstrated a larger D (19%) and a larger CS-index in Sub (54%) than able-bodied, untrained subjects. No significant differences in D and CS-indexes of the thoracic and abdominal aorta were found between any of the groups. The changes measured in Sub and Fem were associated with corresponding alterations in blood flow and stroke flow in all groups. The study suggests that the size and blood flow volume of the proximal limb arteries are adjusted to the metabolic needs of the corresponding extremity musculature and underscore the impact of exercise training or disuse on the structure and the function of the arterial system.
Bounce of a tennis ball.	The bouncing of a tennis ball on a tennis court surface is analysed by making several simplifying assumptions about the physics of the interaction. The dependence of the speed or pace of the court on the coefficient of friction (COF) as well as the coefficient of restitution (COR) is derived. The mathematics of a court's speed is investigated to see how much slow courts tend to reduce the speed of the game. It is found that players must increase their racket head speed by 25% if they wish to compensate for the extra loss of ball speed on slow courts.
Player sensitivity to changes in string tension in a tennis racket.	Forty-one advanced recreational tennis players were tested to determine their ability to detect differences in string tension in a tennis racket. Subjects were given pairs of rackets that varied in tension by up to 98 N (10 kg) and were asked whether they noticed a difference in tension and if so, which racket was strung at a higher tension. Only 11 (27%) of those tested could correctly identify a tension difference of 5 kg (11 lb) or less. Fifteen (37%) could not pick a difference of 10 kg (22 lb). To examine the importance of sound as a means of discrimination, an additional test was undertaken where participants wore earplugs. Of the 26 subjects undertaking this additional test, only 6 (23%) were successful. It was concluded that advanced recreational tennis players demonstrated limited ability to correctly identify differences in string tension and that impact sound was an important factor for those participants who were successful at various levels of discrimination.
Simulated tennis matchplay in a controlled environment.	The aim of this study was to develop an exercise protocol to simulate tennis matchplay on a 'category 2' surface. Match analyses were used to form the basis for the design of the protocol. The protocol involved playing against a tennis ball serving machine. Part A of the protocol comprised 92 min 46 s of simulated tennis matchplay; Part B consisted of continuous hitting to the point of 'volitional fatigue' or when the required hitting frequency for two consecutive ball feeds could no longer be maintained. Ten elite tennis players (5 males, 5 females) volunteered to participate in the study, which was performed on an indoor tennis court (Matchplay, En-Tout-Cas). Their age, body mass and estimated maximal oxygen uptake were as follows: males, 21.7 +/- 1.0 years, 73.6 +/- 2.6 kg and 58.0 +/- 1.7 ml x kg(-1) x min(-1), respectively; females, 21.9 +/- 1.3 years, 62.3 +/- 2.0 kg and 42.2 +/- 0.7 ml x kg x min(-1), respectively (mean +/- sx). Heart rate, change in body mass and time to volitional fatigue were monitored. The heart rate responses of the participants to the simulated matchplay (range: 140-157 beats x min(-1), 73-81% peak heart rate) were consistent with the results of previous studies, for 'actual' matchplay. This protocol was successful in simulating similar physiological responses in Part A to 'actual' matchplay on a 'category 2' surface, in a controlled environment; it was also a sensitive evaluation tool of skilled performance in Part B. The current protocol may be used as a baseline protocol for studying the influence of, for example, training and dietary intervention on performance.
Evaluating the evidence for implicit perceptual learning: a re-analysis of Farrow and Abernethy (2002).	I present a re-analysis of the data from Farrow and Abernethy's (2002) study of implicit perceptual training in tennis. I argue that there are several weaknesses and mistakes in the original analysis, which, when rectified, lead to a fundamentally different set of conclusions to those given in the original paper. Specifically, there are significant group differences in anticipatory performance before the intervention that make subsequent between-group comparisons at specific occlusion points problematic. Second, in contrast to what is reported in the original paper, the explicit learning intervention resulted in a significant improvement in performance. In addition, a comparison of the effects of the different interventions indicates that the placebo group demonstrated the largest mean improvement in anticipation for the four occlusion points up to racquet-ball impact. Third, the non-significant change in performance over a 32-day retention period indicates that any improvements in performance were retained, not lost, over this period of time. Following a re-analysis of the original data, I conclude that Farrow and Abernethy's study provides no evidence that an implicit perceptual training paradigm improves anticipatory performance more than either an explicit learning paradigm or, indeed, an intervention involving mere observation of tennis matches.
Effect of an interference task on a ball-hitting skill by 6- to 10-yr-old children.	We explored the functionality of interference on a forehand tennis shot among 145 6- to 10-yr.-old children using the retroactive interference procedure. First, the children were asked to execute 10 forehand drives with a small tennis racquet (prime test). They were then asked to execute 10 frontal returns (interference test). The final probe test was similar to the first test, but children executed only 3 forehand drives. Children were assessed using a developmental category for the forehand drive skill. Each developmental step reflected a common sequence of body configurations exhibited by all individuals and was evaluated point-by-point. Multivariate analysis showed that boys had higher ratings of developmental steps of coordination than girls and that the rated developmental step initially increased with age before stabilizing. The developmental steps of coordination decreased after the interference task. We also showed that interference mechanisms are operative for this gross motor skill in childhood, but no interaction was found with age and sex. Post hoc analysis showed that developmental steps were not significantly different after the interference task for the oldest children, suggesting the onset of the inhibitory process.
Factors influencing rearfoot kinematics during a rapid lateral braking movement.	Understanding the morphological, movement, and biomechanical characteristics that influence rearfoot motion during lateral movements is necessary for footwear design and for the determination of injury mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to identify factors related to rearfoot kinematics during a lateral braking movement. Seven highly skilled male tennis players performed 24 trials of side shuffle movements at various speeds. A rear view of the right leg performing a braking step onto a force platform was filmed. The neutral-O landing style was most commonly demonstrated. Average movement velocity, foot velocity at touchdown, and body mass were variables demonstrating weak or nonsignificant correlations with the rearfoot parameters. Although structural inversion was correlated significantly with the maximum rearfoot angle and velocity (r = -0.52 and -0.69), the results were affected by movement speed and sample size. The biomechanical characteristics displayed the greatest influence on the various rearfoot kinematic parameters. The magnitude of the significant (P less than 0.0001) correlations generally decreased in the following order: maximum horizontal and vertical force gradients, corresponding times to the maximum gradient values, maximum horizontal and vertical forces, and the corresponding times to maximum forces. In conclusion, the gradient-associated parameters were the most useful biomechanical parameters for predicting changes in rearfoot kinematics.
The use of anticipatory visual cues by highly skilled tennis players.	The authors examined 13 skilled and 12 novice tennis performers' ability to use visual information of an opponent's movement pattern to anticipate and respond. In Experiment 1, skilled and novice players anticipated the type of stroke and the direction in which the ball was hit in a highly coupled perception-action environment. Both groups of players correctly anticipated at greater than chance levels. Skilled players were significantly more accurate than novices with live and video displays but not with point-light displays. In Experiment 2, the reaction latencies of 10 expert performers were significantly faster when they returned balls hit by a live opponent than when they returned balls projected from a cloaked ball machine. The findings indicate that experts are able to use movement-pattern information to determine shot selection and to use that information to significantly reduce their response delay times. The findings are discussed in terms of perception-action coupling in time-stress activities.
A comparison of two criterion-referenced standard setting procedures for sports skills testing.	The application of criterion-referenced (CR) standard setting procedures in physical education has been limited to the examinee-centered model known as criterion groups. Alternative examinee-centered approaches are available but have not been applied in sport skills testing. The purpose of this study was to compare two examinee-centered models for setting performance standards for a sport skills test battery. CR performance standards were determined for the tennis skills test battery published in Tennis skills test manual (Hensley, 1989) using the borderline group (BG) (Livingston & Zieky, 1982) and criterion groups (CG) (Berk, 1976) models. The comparison of these two methods demonstrated that the CG method consistently produced performance standards that were lower than the BG method. In one instance the BG method produced a standard that was clearly unreasonable. Estimates of CR reliability for the CG standards (.76 less than or equal to P less than or equal to .93; .52 less than or equal to Kq less than or equal to .86) were higher than BG estimates (.55 less than or equal to P less than or equal to .84; .11 less than or equal to Kq less than or equal to .68). Although each method has strengths, neither is without problems. Results from this study suggest these two methods might be combined to minimize the problems associated with each. This combined method should produce standards with improved accuracy, validity, and reliability.
Ambulatory blood pressure and Holter monitoring during tennis play.	The effect of tennis play on blood pressure, heart rate response, and rhythm disturbances was evaluated in 21 men 39 to 61 years of age (M = 49.5 +/- 6.7 yrs). A Holter monitor was utilized for continuous ECG recording during tennis play and a portable ambulatory blood pressure recorder (Spacelabs) was used to measure blood pressures and heart rates periodically during tennis matches. The results indicated that blood pressure response to tennis (singles), although an activity of moderate aerobic intensity, can exert significant increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure even in those persons who are normotensive at rest. Excessive body weight, and particularly abdominal deposition, appears associated with an increase in diastolic blood pressure to exercise. Few heart rhythm disturbances of consequence were uncovered. A simple submaximal step test such as the Canadian Aerobic Fitness Test, with ECG monitoring, could assist in detecting those individuals susceptible to an exaggerated blood pressure response and to heart rhythm disturbances at exercise.
Skill acquisition in tennis: research and current practice.	Common to most tennis players is the desire to improve performance. Equipped with the necessary motivation, these players can spend countless hours rehearsing tennis' skills under the guidance of a coach. Often, these practices feature repetitious hitting, with little consideration given to the actual context in which the game's skills are expressed. Alternatively, training sessions that amount to little more than poorly structured game-play, devoid of any specific goals or objectives, are also discernible. Either way, player learning and long-term performance are unlikely to be optimised. So, where tennis coaches have long relied on certain instructional approaches and types of practices to enhance player performance, their efficacy is uncertain. Indeed, a growing body of research suggests that players stand to benefit from the earlier introduction of variable and random practices and feedback that is more intrinsic in nature rather than time-honoured overly prescriptive coaching. This review considers contemporary skill acquisition research in relation to current tennis coaching practice.
The importance of the International Tennis Federation's junior boys' circuit in the development of professional tennis players.	The relationship between junior boys' tennis success, as measured by a top 20 International Tennis Federation's Junior Circuit (ITFJC) ranking, and subsequent ranking accomplishments in professional men's tennis is discussed. The names, countries, and birthdates of all players to achieve a top 20 ITFJC boys' year-end ranking from 1992 to 1998 were recorded. The progress of these players through the professional ranks was then tracked to the end of 2004. Results indicate that 91% of top 20-ranked boys achieved a professional men's ranking, while a stepwise regression analysis revealed junior ranking (JR) to be a predictor of future, professional ranking (beta = 0.232, r(2) = 0.054, p < 0.05). A regression equation [predicted professional rank = 78.17 + 6.31*(JR)] accounted for a significant amount of variance in professional ranking. For male players, therefore, the achievement of a top 20 junior ranking appears to be a reasonable yardstick for future, professional success. The type of surface upon which junior players develop their games was also shown to influence professional ranking highs, with play on clay courts or a combination of clay and hard courts helping to produce higher, professionally ranked players than hard court play alone (p< or = 0.01).
Mapping two new points on the tennis expertise continuum: tactical skills of adult advanced beginners and entry-level professionals during competition.	Research examining problem representations of individuals during task performance is advancing our understanding of information processing and expertise in a variety of sports. However, few studies using similar methodology have been conducted on individuals of various competitive standards in one domain in similar contexts. This study examined problem representations of adult advanced beginners and entry-level professionals accessed during singles tennis competition (n = 12). These groups were selected to represent players with performance skills that were different from those studied previously (i.e. adult beginners and varsity players). Immediate recall and planning interviews were conducted between points during singles tennis competition. Players competed within their respective expertise groups. Verbal reports were transcribed verbatim and concepts were scored according to a model of protocol structure. Several multivariate analyses of variance were conducted on rank scores for measures of concept content and structure using the L-statistic. Entry-level professionals exhibited more advanced problem representations than advanced beginners regardless of interview type. These findings together with those of previous research suggest adaptations in long-term memory profiles with increases in performance skills. For example, beginners lacked action plan and current event profiles because they generated goals and reiterated game events during both interviews. Advanced beginners, who had better performance skills than beginners, exhibited rudimentary action plan profiles and deficient current event profiles because they generated and monitored several detailed actions related to the current context during recall interviews and generated only a few goals during planning interviews. In contrast, varsity players and professionals processed tactical information in the current context and beyond denoting the existence of both action plan and current event profiles. Varsity players, with inferior performance skills than professionals, exhibited fewer and less associated tactical concepts than professionals during both interviews.
On the dynamic information underlying visual anticipation skill.	What information underwrites visual anticipation skill in dynamic sport situations? We examined this question on the premise that the optical information used for anticipation resides in the dynamic motion structures, or modes, that are inherent in the observed kinematic patterns. In Experiment 1, we analyzed whole-body movements involved in tennis shots to different directions and distances by means of principal component analysis. The shots differed in the few modes that captured most of the variance, especially as a function of shot direction. In Experiments 2 and 3, skilled and less skilled tennis players were asked to anticipate the direction of simulated shots on the basis of kinematic patterns in which only the constituent dynamic structures were manipulated. The results indicated that players predicted shot direction by picking up the information contained in multiple low-dimensional dynamic modes, suggesting that anticipation skill in tennis entails the extraction of this dynamic information from high-dimensional displays.
Hormonal and metabolic changes during a strenuous tennis match. Effect of ageing.	The effect of a strenuous tennis match was studied in 9 young (21.2 +/- 1.9 yr) and 10 veteran women players (46.5 +/- 1.3 yr) of equivalent skill. Each match was carried out during the summer (ambient temperature 27 +/- 1 degree C), as an official competition, under conditions as similar as possible. Heart rate (HR) was monitored throughout the match, weight loss was evaluated and pre- and post-match values of haematocrit, plasma lactate, free fatty acid (FFA), glycemia, ionogram, norepinephrine (NOR), epinephrine, arginine vasopressin (AV) concentrations and plasma renin activity (PRA) were measured. Plasma volume was calculated. While mean HR remained steady in young players, it increased progressively in veteran players as the match went on and reached a very high level towards the end of the match. When post-match values were compared to pre-match values, the mean results were: no substantial changes in plasma lactate and electrolyte concentrations, a large increase in FFA, no increase in epinephrine, a moderate rise in NOR and a large increase in PRA and AV. Despite a similar weight loss, a large drop in plasma volume occurred only in veteran players, who also showed FFA and AV values greater than in young players. During these strenuous matches the large response of hormones which control body fluid probably contributed to the limiting of changes in water and electrolyte balances. However, under similar conditions marked differences occurred as a function of ageing concerning the control of plasma volume.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Metabolic and cardiovascular adaptation and the performance of professional tennis players]	14 professional tennis players of world rank were examined (7 men, mean age 23 +/- 3 years; 7 women, mean age 18 +/- 2 years). Heart volume (HV) was 11.9 +/- 0.9 ml/kg in women, 12.7 +/- 1.3 ml/kg in men, 20-30% higher than in untrained persons. Correspondingly, end-diastolic (EDV) and end-systolic volume, left-ventricular muscle mass (LVM) and stroke volume (SV) were elevated, while contractility parameters as well as the ratios of SV and of LVM to EDV and HV were within normal limits. The changes are to be taken as adaptations in the sense of athlete's heart. Maximal treadmill speed was 18 km/h in women and 19.3 km/h in men, with maximal lactate levels of 9.3 mmol/l (women) and 11.4 mmol/l (men). Anaerobic threshold was reached at a treadmill speed of 13.3 km/h (women) and 14.8 km/h (men). These data indicate a good performance range and were clearly better than in earlier groups of tennis players. This adaptation requires additional interval and endurance training. In 11 tennis players the serum concentration of magnesium and in 5 that of iron was below the recommended lower limit (magnesium: 0.8 mmol/l; iron: 14 mumols/l). Serum concentrations of creatine kinase and of lactate dehydrogenase were always two to three times higher than normal, if tennis training had taken place the day before, but all other biochemical values were within normal limits.
Personal UV exposure for different outdoor sports.	Exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a major environmental risk factor in the development of skin cancers and it occurs mainly during outdoor activities. The purpose of this study is to quantify the UV exposure suffered by amateur athletes (tennis players, hikers and runners) in their training schedules. The study on tennis player exposure took place at a tennis club in Valencia during the month of June 2011. With respect to the hiking group, the hikes studied took place in several mountainous areas of Spain and France from June to August 2011. Finally, the exposure suffered by ten runners while participating in a running circuit in the province of Valencia, from March to November 2011, was studied. The athletes were monitored using personal dosimeters (VioSpor), with the tennis players and runners wearing them on the wrist and the hikers on the shoulder. The median daily personal UV exposure for the hikers was 8.1 Standard Erythema Dose (SED) and for the tennis players 7.5 SED per day of training. The runners received a median of 14.6 SED while participating in the running circuit and about 2 SED per competition day. Median daily UV exposure of the hikers and tennis players exceeded 5 SED, which means that, in the case of non-sun-adapted skin type III and the non-use of sun protection, erythema may be induced in these subjects. However, the exposure suffered by the runners did not exceed the maximum personal exposure of 5 SED. Accordingly, it is necessary to encourage the use of high protection sunscreens and protective clothing and to avoid UV exposure in the hottest part of the day. 
Sudden death in racquet sports.	The regular playing of racquet sports tends to confer general health and to protect the heart--to produce the athletic heart syndrome. Strenuous play, however, can provoke ventricular arrhythmias and can kill individuals with heart disease. The overall risk for an exercise death from racquet sport play seems to be as low as from distance running. Middle-aged men, however, especially those with known coronary disease or coronary risk factors, should approach racquet sports with caution, and might benefit from timely medical advice.
Preliminary evidence of salivary cortisol predicting performance in a controlled setting.	The aims of this study were to examine the influence of salivary cortisol on tennis serve performance in a controlled setting and to investigate if cortisol predicts unique variance in performance beyond a subjective anxiety measure (i.e., Competitive State Anxiety Inventory-2 [CSAI-2]). Twenty-three tennis players performed two series of second tennis serves separated by an anxiety induction (i.e., arithmetic task). Cortisol was assessed six times during the experiment. Results show that cortisol response and a drop in serving performance are positively correlated (r=.68, p<.001). Cortisol also explains unique variance in performance (i.e., 19%) beyond CSAI-2 measures. Thus, considering cortisol measurements seems warranted in future research aimed at understanding performance. 
Reconstruction in Achilles tendon rupture and simultaneous covering of a skin and soft tissue defect using the myocutaneous gastrocnemius sliding flap]	A functioning Achilles tendon with soft tissue reconstruction in one stage is presented. The medial and lateral gastrocnemius musculocutaneous unit can be raised as a neurovascular sliding flap with split-thickness skin graft closure of the defect in the popliteal fossa.
Leg and foot injuries in racquet sports.	Injuries to the lower extremity are common in racquet sports. The acute injuries usually respond well to treatment. Chronic injuries may require more patience and sometimes a change of playing habits on the part of the player. Some chronic injuries will respond well to operative intervention but most will do well with conservative care.
Thoracoabdominal musculoskeletal injuries in racquet sports.	Thoracoabdominal musculoskeletal injuries are separated into rectus abdominus injuries and lower thoracic muscular injuries. Localized rectus injuries may be treated by steroid injection. Diffuse rectus injuries and thoracic injuries are treated by aggressive rehabilitation. The mechanisms of injury are different in each case, and prevention of these forces is necessary to allow soft-tissue healing.
Low back pain in the competitive tennis player.	The etiologies of low back pain and the biomechanics and pathology of the lumbar spine as they relate to tennis stroke mechanics have been reviewed, and a treatment protocol has been presented. A recent survey of the Men's Professional Tennis Tour is the only article found that discusses low back pain in tennis players; the orthopaedic and sports medicine literature is otherwise devoid of any relevant studies. Because this one survey indicates that 38 per cent of 143 tennis players missed at least one tournament because of low back problems, it seems obvious that an epidemiologic study on low back pain in racquet sports is vital to a more thorough understanding of the problem.
Abdominal and groin injuries in tennis.	Although abdominal and groin injuries are not unique to the game of tennis, the very mechanics of the ground stroke and overhead volley predispose participants in this sport to the chronic pain and frustration of these injuries. Careful consideration must be given not only to the muscular anatomy of the region but also to the visceral and neurologic anatomy. A patient, controlled program of rehabilitation, emphasizing flexibility and subsequent strengthening, must be stressed if recurrence is to be avoided.
Epidemiology of tennis, squash, and racquetball injuries.	This article enumerates and examines the existing epidemiologic data on racquet sports injuries. A framework is provided for the evaluation and interpretation of future studies and research.
Eye protection in racquet sports.	This article summarizes the clinical and experimental data leading to the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) certification of six eyeguards for racquet sports in Canada in November 1986. A parallel approach involving the American Standard of Testing and Materials (ASTM) is discussed and eyeguards meeting specifications are illustrated.
Prevention and treatment of elbow and shoulder injuries in the tennis player.	Tennis injuries are common in both the upper and lower extremities. The most common, and often most difficult, upper extremity injuries are shoulder tendinitis and tennis elbow (lateral and medial). Key considerations in the treatment of tendinitis include an understanding of the injury process and the resultant character and quantity of the pathologic spectrums. Tendon degeneration rather than tendon repair is the primary pathologic entity secondary to intrinsic muscle-tendon overload. For best treatment results, the protocols of treatment, both surgical and nonsurgical, must be individualized.
Shoulder pain in the competitive tennis player.	Shoulder pain in the elite tennis player is of the overuse variety and is usually attributable to impingement symptoms. Nonoperative approaches favor the quickest return to competitive tennis, and when surgery is necessary, arthroscopic procedures are preferred.
Soft-tissue injuries of the hand and wrist in racquet sports.	Participants in racquet sports are prone to a host of soft-tissue injuries to their hands and wrists owing to the direct impact of the handle as well as the repetitive stretching that occurs as the wrist is forcefully whipped into extremes of position. Tendinitis can occur in all tendons but is most common in the first dorsal compartment, flexor carpi ulnaris, flexor carpi radialis, and extensor carpi ulnaris. Ligamentous tears can produce instability patterns that, if unrecognized, can become chronic disabilities. Vessels and nerves can be compromised by repetitive blunt trauma to the structures themselves or by entrapment by surrounding structures. Prompt diagnosis will allow for the appropriate treatment and eliminate the need for vague terms such as "wrist sprain." The goal of early recognition and treatment is to allow the player to get back to the court and prevent the development of chronic discomfort or permanent impairment.
Fitness evaluations and fitness findings in competitive junior tennis players.	Elite tennis players, as well as a large number of active recreational players, are involved in a sport that applies high repetitive loads that can create tension overload situations in certain key anatomic areas of the body and add to possible overload situations in other areas of the body. This results in patterns of inflexibility and weakness that can be demonstrated on a tennis-specific musculoskeletal exam, and that can be correlated with areas of increased injury occurrence. These players report conditioning programs that are, for the most part, inadequate to confer total conditioning of all the muscular parameters important in playing tennis. All of these factors, in addition to the frequency and type of playing, contribute to the occurrence of the overload injuries noted. These aspects need to be addressed in a preventative program for injury reduction. We do not believe that major changes in the way that tennis is played should be implemented until the effects of a proper preventative conditioning program are evaluated. The "ideal" conditioning program has not yet been found. While the exact composition of the program is in doubt, our studies allow us to recommend flexibility, strength, and endurance training for all athletes playing tennis at frequent intervals. This program should be guided by the findings on the preparticipation exam.
Exercise training for competitive tennis.	This article reviews the muscle physiology underlying various forms of activity, as well as the adaptive responses induced by specific forms of training, and thus provides a rational basis for the design of a training program for competitive tennis.
Knee injuries in tennis.	Racquet sports involve sharp, side-to-side movements and impose significant valgus and rotatory stresses on the knee. Most knee injuries are indirect as a result of these acute stresses and overuse. Some of the more common racquet sport injuries include tennis leg, jumper's knee, patello-femoral pain, meniscal injuries, bursitis, and tendinitis.
Stretching, strengthening, and conditioning for the competitive tennis player.	For an athlete to be competitive at the highest levels of tennis, he or she must possess an optimal level of flexibility, strength, and cardiovascular conditioning. He or she also must be at a maximum level in areas including upper and lower extremity selective endurance, isolated muscular strength patterns of repetitive activities, and agility. To achieve this, a great deal of time and effort must be spent off the tennis court strengthening the appropriate muscle groups and improving overall agility and pattern responses. It is hoped that these programs will allow the American junior tennis player to return to a level competitive with the rest of the world.
Surface and equipment variables in tennis injuries.	Alterations in equipment can reduce the incidence and severity of overuse injuries in the competitive tennis player. Changes in racquet variables, court surface, footwear, and string tension play an important part in treatment of both upper and lower extremity injuries. Adequate time for rehabilitation is needed to prevent reinjury when returning to competition.
Upper extremity injuries in adolescent tennis players.	The majority of adolescent tennis players will have their playing temporarily interrupted by an injury, with lower extremity problems predominating. Although upper extremity injuries occur less frequently, they tend to be more troublesome. Injuries discussed in this article include "King Kong arm," slipped capital humeral epiphysis, "Osgood-Schlatter disease" of the shoulder, tennis elbow, stress synovitis and elbow flexion contracture, and friction burns and collagen stress fractures of the rotator cuff.
The shoulder of the tennis player.	A depression of the exercised shoulder was found among highly trained tennis players, and in other athletes employing the overhand motion. This deformity is attributed to stretching of the shoulder elevating muscles, and to hypertrophy of the racket-holding extremity. Most symptoms in the shoulders studied were in the region of the rotator cuff, and occurred upon strokes requiring abduction. Shoulder dependency causes a relative abduction of the extremity, which may result in impingement of the rotator cuff. Shoulder droop may lead to thoracic outlet syndrome, and, in the athlete, may simulate scoliosis.
Heat problems in the tennis player.	Any athlete, regardless of the sport or exercise, should allow an appropriate period to get in condition before exerting maximal effort. Athletes should be encouraged to observe environmental conditions and sharply curtail or postpone activity if the humidity reaches 95 per cent at any temperature. In addition, athletes should expose as much skin as possible to the air, and remain well hydrated before, during, and after exercise.
Protection of the eyes in racket sports]	A survey was conducted on 1032 racket sport players from 10 randomly selected racket sport centers in Quebec during the month of October 1985. The use of protective eye glasses was found to be higher in racketball (70.2%) and squash (45.8%) than in badminton (8.8%) or tennis (3.5%). While a little less than 60% of protective eye glasses were equipped with unbreakable lenses, 40% of protective glasses were simple eye guards, containing no lens at all. Hence a large number of players assumed that they had adequate protection while wearing simple eye guards or their everyday normal glasses. Gender differences did not seem to affect the use of protective eye glasses. A general observation was that the older the player the better the eye protection, whereas novice players tended to be less prepared to use the protective glasses. The use of protective eye glasses was found to be compulsory in close to 46% of racketball centers and in 25% of squash clubs.
Bone mineral content and physical activity.	The purpose of this study was to estimate the effects of intense and regular physical activity on locomotor system modifications. Tennis, with its unilateral solicitations, allows a more precise examination of specific localized development. Ten professional tennis players were compared with sedentary age-matched students. Muscular modifications were observed, mainly in the forearm circumference. The dominant side forearm circumference was 13% larger than the opposite side. Asymmetry was less in the upper arm and insignificant in the thorax and vertebra. Deep modifications in bone mineral content (BMC) were investigated by isotopic techniques, based on differential photon attenuation in bone and soft tissue of the forearm. Bone density was markedly increased in professional tennis players. Even in the nondominant side, radius BMC was 1.18 g HA/cm, 15% higher than in sedentary control students. The difference was yet larger in the dominant mid-radius, reaching 1.47 g HA/cm. The same differences were observed for the ulna and involved both cortical and trabecular bone. In the control group of sedentary students, no significant difference was noted between the two upper limbs. This study clearly demonstrates the positive correlation between exercise and bone mineralization. The precise mechanical constraints optimizing the favorable effect in the most efficient way should be studied.
A mechanical and electromyographical analysis of the effects of various joint counterforce braces on the tennis player.	Biomechanical data on most bracing and protective equipment systems is lacking. To better understand the clinical success of counterforce bracing, a biomechanical analysis of braced and unbraced tennis players (serve and backhand strokes) was undertaken. Three-dimensional cinematography and electromyographic techniques were used. Three commonly used counterforce braces (lateral elbow, medial elbow, and radial-ulnar wrist) were compared with the unbraced condition. The overall results basically reveal positive biomechanical alterations in forearm muscle activity and angular joint acceleration dependent upon the brace and joint area analyzed.
Injuries in high school sports.	A two-year study was made of injuries received in high school sports. Athletic trainers were placed in four high schools to conduct the investigation. Injuries occurred in women's sports at a rate of 22 per 100 participants; men's injuries occurred at a rate of 39 per 100 participants. Football and wrestling accounted for the highest injury rates; tennis and swimming accounted for the lowest rates for both sexes.
Vision and sports.	The relationship between optimal visual skills and optimal athletic performance is discussed along with specific examples of how performance can be affected in tennis, basketball, football, baseball, and golf. A step-by-step method is presented to evaluate these specific skills during the optometric evaluation.
Osseous manifestations of elbow stress associated with sports activities.	The radiographic manifestations of musculoskeletal stress at the elbow associated with racket and throwing sports are reported in 29 symptomatic amateur, juvenile, and professional athletes. Five major categories of stress are identified: diffuse, humeral shaft, medial tension, lateral compression, and extension stress. The osseous changes produced by these stresses include bony hypertrophy, loose bodies, traction spur formation, osteochondral and humeral shaft fractures in the adult, and epiphyseal and apophyseal hypermaturity or avulsion in the youngster.
Patellar tendinitis: pathology and results of treatment.	Patellar tendinitis can be considered as an overload lesion in athletes. Anatomical pathology reveals focal degeneration and microtearing at predisposed areas near the insertion of the quadriceps or patellar tendon. Thie prognosis and treatment are dependent on the stage of the affection. A program of conservative treatment is effective in the early stages of the disease but it fails in a high proportion (16/38) of cases in the later stages. Surgery directed towards the tendon, rather than a bony procedure, yielded favourable results in 27 out of 29 patients.
The treatment of tennis elbow with triamcinolone acetonide.	Twenty-seven patients with tennis elbow were treated with triamcinolone acetonide (40 mg/ml) injected locally into the tender area without local anaesthetic. Reduction of pain or complete relief was achieved in 1 to 72 hours, although in 9 cases exacerbation of pain occurred before relief was given. The recurrence rate at 6 months was 17.8%. The study shows that triamcinolone acetonide is a useful preparation in the relief of this condition.
The impact of student goal orientation in physical education classes.	The theory of achievement motivation suggests that students whose goals are related to the mastery of a task are more likely to engage in adaptive patterns of behavior such as choosing challenging tasks and focusing on effort. Students whose goal orientations are ego-involved are more apt to avoid challenge and be unwilling to expend effort. The purpose of this study was to explore the impact that goal perspective has in physical education classes. Subjects (N = 90) were college students in beginning tennis classes. They completed a skill pretest and the Task and Ego Orientation in Sport Questionnaire (Duda, 1992). A system of contract grading was employed to yield an indication of students' selection of challenging tasks. The points earned toward the contracts were used as an indicant of in-class behavior. At the end of the semester, students completed a skill posttest and a cognitive processes questionnaire. A task-involved goal perspective was associated with the selection of more challenging tasks and positive scores on the questionnaire. Those two variables, in turn, were significant predictors of student achievement. The results suggest that goal perspective could be an important influence on students' thought and action in physical education classes.
Operative treatment of paratenonitis achilleae in athletes (author's transl)]	This is a report about indications, technics of operation, treatment after the operations and the results of the paratenonitis at the Achilles-tendon. Our 21 patients were top-sportsmen and the treatment conservative had no succes. All patients were able to continue their sportive activity after the excision of the paratenon.
Fracture of the hook of the hamate in athletes.	During an eight-year period, four tennis players, seven golfers, and nine baseball players were seen with a fracture of the hook of the hamate. Eighteen of these twenty patients were disabled by pain and after the fracture fragment was removed, all eighteen were relieved so that they returned to their athletic pursuits. Two patients were asymptomatic, their old fracture being discovered accidentally when they were treated for other injuries. Nineteen of the twenty patients had been examined before coming under our care, but the correct diagnosis had been made in only two. Conservative treatment, including rest, physical therapy, and injections of steroids into the wrist and hand, had not been beneficial. From the history and findings, we believe that these fractures were caused by a direct blow against the hook of the hamate caused by the handle of the tennis racket, golf club, or bat during a swing, and not by indirect force produced by the ligaments and muscles attached to the hook. The fracture was demonstrated in all twenty patients by a roentgenogram (profile view) of the carpal tunnel.
Ununited fracture of the hook of the hamate.	Of nine ununited fractures of the hook of the hamate, eight were treated by surgical excision of the fragment. All eight patients had relief from persistent pain and regained the preinjury level of function. This fracture occurs frequently in athletes and is often not diagnosed because it can be demonstrated only by special roentgenographic views. It is concluded that this fracture may be less rare than is commonly believed and that surgical excision permits early return of function, especially in athletes and laborers who must be able to grip hard objects strongly.
Individual effects on biomechanical variables during landing in tennis shoes with varying midsole density.	The aim of this study was to determine whether individuals responded uniquely to three different pairs of tennis shoes that differed only in midsole hardness. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected while the subjects (n = 3) performed a stereotyped lateral movement wearing each of the three pairs of tennis shoes. The results were analysed statistically for each subject separately. Variables were identified as discriminators between shoes for individual subjects based upon the results of separate discriminant analyses. After these analyses, a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was used for each subject to determine whether the discriminator variables differed significantly between shoes. A scoring system was devised that used the results of the MANOVA to assign scores to shoes for each variable. Cumulative scores for shoes (for each subject) were compared to determine which shoe was best for a subject. The results indicated that each subject responded uniquely to the shoes, and each demonstrated a preference for a particular pair of shoes. A need for single-subject designs exists when evaluating variations in athletic shoes.
The use of an enhanced simplified habit-reversal procedure to reduce disruptive outbursts during athletic performance.	An enhanced simplified habit-reversal procedure was used with a 14-year old boy who presented with a long history of disruptive, angry outbursts during tennis matches. Initial treatment involved simplified habit-reversal procedures delivered in a multiple baseline design across settings. Modest results led to additional supporting contingencies, including response costs. Results showed elimination of disruptive outbursts during both nontournament and tournament matches and highlight the importance of adding additional supporting contingencies to simplified habit reversal for some self-control problems.
