"Little league elbow"--acute traction apophysitis in an adolescent badminton player.	A case of an acute traction apophysitis, "little league elbow", in an adolescent badminton player is presented. After a period of intense badminton activity, the patient developed typical signs of inflammation related to his elbow. X-ray showed soft tissue calcifications and ultrasound showed intra-articular swelling and a possible apophysitis related to the elbow. After a period of immobilization followed by low activity he could return to normal sports activity.
Special operative considerations in musicians.	Musicians are a unique group, requiring digital control and skills at the highest levels. Each instrument has its own special needs and the musician must be seen in the context of the instrument played. Surgery also must be seen in this context. The special areas of modification of technique and some of the more commonsurgical situations encountered in musicians are considered in this article.
Compensating occupationally related tenosynovitis and epicondylitis: a literature review.	To assess occupational associations with tenosynovitis and epicondylitis, we conducted a systematic literature review. We focused particularly on evidence that might support compensation of these disorders 'on the balance of probabilities'.
Upper extremity strength characteristics in female recreational tennis players with and without lateral epicondylalgia.	Descriptive, cross-sectional.
Provocation of epicondylalgia lateralis (tennis elbow) by power grip or pinching.	The etiology of epicondylalgia lateralis humeri (tennis elbow) is not fully understood. A biomechanical model is introduced for those types of epicondylalgia where damage at the origin of the wrist and finger extensor muscles is caused by overloading. It shows that grasping and pinching always cause a flexing moment at the wrist joint. To avoid flexion of the joint, there must be equilibrium of moments, which is attained by activity of the extensor muscles. Simultaneous measurements of force and electromyograms support the biomechanical model.
Common sports injuries in young tennis players.	Tennis is a popular racquet sport played by boys, girls, men and women. Tennis players frequently begin playing in childhood and may continue playing into late adulthood. Preadolescent and adolescent players have open growth plates and a reduced muscle power, lower level of coordination and smaller stature compared with adult players. The physical characteristics of the young tennis player mean that unique demands are placed on the developing athlete which can, in turn, be associated with different types and patterns of injury. The most common types of injury in tennis players of all ages are muscle sprains and ligament sprains secondary to overuse. These are a particular problem in the adolescent age group because, in general, this group begin playing with a lower level of physical conditioning. Fortunately, injuries in younger players are usually not longstanding and the overuse (chronic) problems seen in older players, such as patellar tendinosis and tennis elbow, are less common in younger players. Anatomically, lower extremity injuries are twice as common as those to the upper extremity or spine, with ankle injury being the most common. Prevention of injury in young tennis players, or at least a reduction in the incidence, is possible. Some traumatic injuries, including contusions, abrasions, lacerations and fractures, may be unavoidable as a result of aggressive play, but others may be prevented by monitoring equipment and the court surface to ensure a safe field of play. The prime target of prevention in young tennis players should be overuse injuries. The principles of 'overload' and staged involvement are of particular importance in this age group. A gradual, progressive increase in the intensity of tennis practice, the slow introduction of new court surfaces and a staged progression in the teaching of tennis skills can help to reduce the incidence of injury in young tennis players.
