Open versus closed halo rings: comparison of fixation strengths.	A mechanical skull model was used to compare axial loads to failure for three marketed and one experimental halo ring.
An isokinetic investigation of contractile mode's effect on the elbow flexors.	Healthy, sedentary, college-age subjects (n = 16) performed concentric or eccentric maximal unilateral isokinetic (1.08 rad s(-1)) elbow flexor contractions (4 sets of 12 repetitions) to fatigue as physiological data were concurrently collected. Net caloric expenditure was determined using indirect calorimetry, whereas the electromyogram examined root mean square (RMS) and mean power frequency (MPF) values for the biceps brachii, brachioradialis, and palmaris longus. Eccentric exercise resulted in significantly greater (p < 0.05) absolute (total work per kilocalorie) and relative (total work per kilocalorie per kilogram) exercise efficiency values. Concentric biceps brachii and brachioradialis RMS values were significantly (p < 0.05) greater than corresponding eccentric values, suggesting greater motor unit recruitment. Concentric MPF values, a measure of motor unit fatigue, showed significantly (p < 0.05) greater before and after decrements following exercise for the biceps brachii and brachioradialis. Greater exercise efficiency with less motor unit recruitment and fatigue results from eccentric exercise.
The validity of recent curl-up tests in young adults.	The validity of 2 field tests of abdominal endurance was examined in a sample of 22 male and 22 female college students. Scores on the modified trunk-curl (7) and the 90-second bench trunk-curl (22) were correlated with isometric trunk flexor strength and endurance measured on a Cybex TEF machine. There were no significant correlations (-0.21 < r < 0.36) between the field tests and abdominal strength. Only the bench trunk-curl was significantly correlated (rmale = 0.50 and rfemale = 0.46, p < 0.05) with abdominal muscular endurance. The nonsignificant association with the modified curl-up was likely due to a ceiling effect created by the ease of the test. The weak correlations between field tests of abdominal endurance and isometric abdominal endurance (about 25% common variance) and a recent longitudinal study (17) suggest that the curl-ups scores and their hypothesized health-related fitness standards should be interpreted with caution.
Structure-function correlation in airway smooth muscle adapted to different lengths.	Airway smooth muscle is able to adapt and maintain a nearly constant maximal force generation over a large length range. This implies that a fixed filament lattice such as that found in striated muscle may not exist in this tissue and that plastic remodeling of its contractile and cytoskeletal filaments may be involved in the process of length adaptation that optimizes contractile filament overlap. Here, we show that isometric force produced by airway smooth muscle is independent of muscle length over a twofold length change; cell cross-sectional area was inversely proportional to cell length, implying that the cell volume was conserved at different lengths; shortening velocity and myosin filament density varied similarly to length change: increased by 69.4% +/- 5.7 (SE) and 76.0% +/- 9.8, respectively, for a 100% increase in cell length. Muscle power output, ATPase rate, and myosin filament density also have the same dependence on muscle cell length: increased by 35.4% +/- 6.7, 34.6% +/- 3.4, and 35.6% +/- 10.6, respectively, for a 50% increase in cell length. The data can be explained by a model in which additional contractile units containing myosin filaments are formed and placed in series with existing contractile units when the muscle is adapted at a longer length.
2-octyl cyanoacrylate adhesive for conjunctival wound closure in rabbits.	To evaluate the efficacy and histology of 2-octyl cyanoacrylate in conjunctival wound closure in rabbits.
Agonist contractions against electrically stimulated antagonists.	To assess an exercise program that uses electrically stimulated antagonists to resist agonist muscle contractions.
Healing process in anastomosis of homologous venous grafts preserved in glutaraldehyde implanted aorta of rabbits.	Autologous vein (AV) is sometimes not suitable or present for a vascular restoration. Homologous vein preserved in glutaraldehyde may be an alternative to AV, but little is yet known about this graft and its healing process after implantation in arteries. The purpose of this study was to compare the initial healing process of glutaraldehyde-tanned homologous venous grafts (group 1) with fresh autologous venous grafts (group 2), at 4 or 15 days.
Repairs of partial oblique tendon injuries: a biomechanical evaluation.	This study evaluated the tensile properties of oblique partial tendon lacerations and the effects of peripheral sutures on their strength. Seventy-four fresh pig flexor digitorum profundus tendons were divided into eight groups and were transected across 90% of their diameter. The lacerations in the tendons of five of the groups were at 0 degrees, 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, and 60 degrees to their transverse cross-section, respectively. In the other three groups the lacerations were 0 degrees, 45 degrees, and 60 degrees to the cross-section and were repaired with running peripheral sutures. The tendons were subjected to load-to-failure tests in a tensile testing machine to determine the initial, 1 and 2mm gap formation forces, and the ultimate strength. Obliquity of tendon lacerations affected the strength of partially lacerated tendons. The tendons with 45 degrees and 60 degrees oblique lacerations had a significantly lower ultimate strengths than those with transverse (0 degrees), or 15 degrees or 30 degrees oblique lacerations. Running peripheral sutures significantly increased both the gap formation forces and the ultimate strength of the tendons with oblique partial lacerations.
Forces transmitted along human flexor tendons during passive and active movements of the fingers.	The in vivo forces in human digital flexor tendons were determined in 33 patients undergoing a carpal tunnel decompression surgery using a newly developed device. The tendons were tested in passive and active flexion, and flexing against resistance of up to 500 g. Forces in the range of 0.2 to 50 N were noted. Whilst the mean of these forces remained below the force normally required to dehisce a fresh modified Kessler repair, the range of values was such that we would only recommend early movement with great caution and under supervision.
Strain rate effect on the failure properties of tendons.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of strain rate on the failure properties of tendons. Seventy-five chicken flexor digitorum profundus (FDP) tendons were tensile tested at 15 strain rates, ranging from 0.05 to 150 per cent/s. Results showed that strain rate had little effect on the shape of the stress-strain curve. No significant change was observed in the toe region, while the slope of the linear region increased with the increase in strain rate. Generally, the ultimate tensile strength (UTS) and elastic modulus increased significantly as strain rate increased (p < 0.01), while no significant change in strain at UTS (p > 0.01) was observed. It was found the change in failure properties of tendons was not significant, with small change in strain rate.
Term human fetal membranes have a weak zone overlying the lower uterine pole and cervix before onset of labor.	The etiology of fetal membrane (FM) rupture is unknown. A hypothesis that the FM weakens by a process of collagen remodeling and apoptosis to facilitate rupture has been proposed. Human FMs reportedly exhibit a zone of altered histology, postulated to be the FM rupture site, but concomitant FM weakness has not been demonstrated. We hypothesized that a discrete zone of FM with marked weakness, histological change, and evidence of remodeling and apoptosis, develops in late gestation in the FM overlying the cervix. FM tissue from women undergoing prelabor cesarean delivery were perioperatively marked to identify the FM overlying the cervix, cut with a procedure that facilitates remapping the rupture strength of FM pieces to their former location and orientation on a three-dimensional model, and tested for strength. A 10-cm FM zone centered at the cervical mark was compared with the remaining FM. Mean rupture strength within the cervical zone was 55% of the remaining FM. The cervical zone also exhibited increased MMP-9 protein, decreased tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP-3) protein, and increased PARP cleavage coincident with the previously reported zone of altered histology. A discrete zone of weakness is present in term prelabor FMs overlying the cervix and has biochemical characteristics consistent with tissue remodeling and apoptosis.
A prospectively randomized double-blind study on the effect of initial graft tension on knee stability after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.	No consensus exists on the amount of tension that should be applied to anterior cruciate ligament grafts to best facilitate graft incorporation and re-create normal knee mechanics.
Biomechanical rationale for development of anatomical reconstructions of coracoclavicular ligaments after complete acromioclavicular joint dislocations.	Surgical treatments of complete acromioclavicular joint dislocations replace or reconstruct the coracoclavicular ligaments with a single structure and do not account for the anatomical variance of each ligament in the design.
Thermal microdebridement does not affect the time zero biomechanical properties of human patellar tendons.	Thermal microdebridement for the treatment of chronic tendinopathy has recently been introduced. The effect of thermal microdebridement on the biomechanical properties of human tendons, however, remains unknown.
Effects of aging on the mechanical behavior of human dentin.	An experimental study on the mechanical behavior of human dentin and the influence of age was conducted. Beams with rectangular cross-section were sectioned from the coronal dentin of virgin extracted molars (N = 76) that were obtained from (N = 70) patients between 17 and 80 years of age. The beams were loaded in either quasi-static 4-point flexure or 4-point flexural fatigue to failure and the stiffness, strength and fatigue properties were evaluated. In characterizing the fatigue response the beams were divided into two age groups that were regarded as young (17 < or = age < or = 30, mean +/- std. dev. = 25 +/- 5 years) and old (50 < or = age < or = 80, mean +/- std. dev. = 64 +/- 9 years) dentin. Results from monotonic loading showed that both the flexural strength and strain to fracture of dentin decreased significantly with age. The fatigue life of dentin increased with a reduction in cyclic stress amplitude and the fatigue strength of young dentin was greater than that of old dentin at all cyclic stress amplitudes. The endurance strength of young dentin (at 10(7) cycles) was approximately 44 MPa, whereas the old dentin exhibited an endurance strength of approximately 23 MPa. Based on differences in the mechanical behavior and microscopic features of the fracture surfaces from the young and old specimens, aging appears to result in an increase in both the rate of damage initiation and propagation in dentin.
The role of epimysium in suturing skeletal muscle lacerations.	Direct muscle trauma is a common and disabling clinical problem. Surgical muscle repair is difficult to evaluate because reliable repair techniques have not been established scientifically. The purpose of this study was to assess the biomechanical properties of epimysium, the collagenous tissue sheath that surrounds muscles in the body.
Validation of a finite element model of the human metacarpal.	Implant loosening and mechanical failure of components are frequently reported following metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint replacement. Studies of the mechanical environment of the MCP implant-bone construct are rare. The objective of this study was to evaluate the predictive ability of a finite element model of the intact second human metacarpal to provide a validated baseline for further mechanical studies. A right index human metacarpal was subjected to torsion and combined axial/bending loading using strain gauge (SG) and 3D finite element (FE) analysis. Four different representations of bone material properties were considered. Regression analyses were performed comparing maximum and minimum principal surface strains taken from the SG and FE models. Regression slopes close to unity and high correlation coefficients were found when the diaphyseal cortical shell was modelled as anisotropic and cancellous bone properties were derived from quantitative computed tomography. The inclusion of anisotropy for cortical bone was strongly influential in producing high model validity whereas variation in methods of assigning stiffness to cancellous bone had only a minor influence. The validated FE model provides a tool for future investigations of current and novel MCP joint prostheses.
Multidirectional flexibility analysis of cervical artificial disc reconstruction: in vitro human cadaveric spine model.	This in vitro experimental study was conducted to investigate the initial biomechanical effect of artificial intervertebral disc replacement in the cervical spine. The multidirectional flexibility of replaced and adjacent spinal segments were analyzed using a cadaveric cervical spine model.
Structure and biomechanical properties of the trachea of the striped dolphin Stenella coeruleoalba: evidence for evolutionary adaptations to diving.	This study analyzes the structure and mechanical properties of the trachea of the striped dolphin Stenella coeruleoalba, one of the most common cetacean species. The cetacean trachea is made up of closed or semiclosed cartilaginous rings without a paries membranaceus. Our results indicate that the inner lining of the trachea contains erectile tissue in which several venous lacunae permeate the mucosa. We also observed and described the presence of peripheral neurons containing nitric oxide along the rim of the venous lacunae. Data obtained from compression and tensile tests and comparison with the pig and goat tracheas indicate a higher stiffness and a different, higher breaking point for the dolphin trachea. On the whole, our data suggest that the trachea of the striped dolphin possesses structural properties that allow rapid filling with blood, possibly in relation to dive activities, and also allow modifications due to increased pressure and immediate return to the original shape without risks of permanent bending or rupture, as would happen in a terrestrial mammal. As the organ undergoes intense pressure difference during descent to optimal foraging depth and subsequent rapid ascent to surface, especially in deep dives of hundreds of meters, the specific structural and biomechanical peculiarities of the trachea of the striped dolphin may represent an evolutionary adaptation to life in the water and to diving.
Effects of detraining following short term resistance training on eccentric and concentric muscle strength.	Healthy males were examined before and after 12 weeks of accommodated resistance training (three week-1) and after 12 weeks of detraining. Training consisted of four to five sets of six coupled maximum voluntary bilateral concentric and eccentric (Grp ECCON; n = 10) or 12 concentric (Grp CON; n = 8) quadriceps muscle actions. Concentric and eccentric peak torque at various constant angular velocities and three repetition maximum half-squat and vertical jump height were measured. Grp ECCON showed greater (P less than 0.05) overall increase in peak torque after training and detraining than Grp CON. Thus, concentric peak torque (0.52 rad s-1) increased more (P less than 0.05) over the experimental period in Grp ECCON and increases in eccentric peak torque were preserved in Grp ECCON only. Increases in peak torque in response to training were greater (P less than 0.05) at 0.52 than at 2.62 rad s-1. Alterations in the torque-velocity patterns induced by training remained after detraining in Grp ECCON but not in Grp CON. The retained increases (P less than 0.05) in half-squat were 12 and 18% in Grps CON and ECCON, respectively. Neither group showed increased vertical jump height after detraining. This study showed greater preservation of concentric and eccentric peak torque after detraining following coupled concentric and eccentric than concentric resistance training. Only the former regime induced a change in the shape of torque-velocity curves that was manifest after detraining.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Strip extensiometry for comparison of the mechanical response of bovine, rabbit, and human corneas.	Specimens of bovine, rabbit, and human corneas were systematically tested in uniaxial tension to experimentally determine their effective nonlinear stress-strain relations, and hysteresis. Cyclic tensile tests were performed over the physiologic load range of the cornea, up to a maximum of 10 percent strain beyond slack strain. Dimensional changes to corneal test specimens, due to varying laboratory environmental conditions, were also assessed. The measured stress-strain data was found to closely fit exponential power function relations typical of collagenous tissues when appropriate account was taken of specimen slack strain. These constitutive relations are very similar for rabbit, human and bovine corneas; there was no significant difference between the species after preconditioning by one cycle. The uniaxial stress strain curves for all species behave similarly in that their tangent moduli increase at high loads and decrease at low loads as a function of cycling. In the bovine and rabbit data, there is a general trend towards more elastic behavior from the first to second cycles, but there is little variation in these parameters from the second to third cycles. In comparison, the human data demonstrates relatively little change between cycles. Increases in width of corneal test specimens, up to a maximum of 2 percent were found to occur under 95 percent relative humidity test conditions over 10 minutes elapsed time test periods, while specimens which were exposed to normal laboratory conditions (45 percent RH) were found to shrink in width up to a maximum of 9.5 percent over the same elapsed time period. The thickness of the test specimens were observed to decrease by 3 percent in 95 percent relative humidity and by 12 percent in 45 percent relative humidity over the same elapsed time period.
Methodology to determine failure characteristics of planar soft tissues using a dynamic tensile test.	Predicting the injury risk in automotive collisions requires accurate knowledge of human tissues, more particularly their mechanical properties under dynamic loadings. The present methodology aims to determine the failure characteristics of planar soft tissues such as skin, hollow organs and large vessel walls. This consists of a dynamic tensile test, which implies high-testing velocities close to those in automotive collisions. To proceed, I-shaped tissue samples are subjected to dynamic tensile tests using a customized tensile device based on the drop test principle. Data acquisition has especially been adapted to heterogeneous and soft biological tissues given that standard measurement systems (considered to be global) have been completed with a non-contact and full-field strain measurement (considered to be local). This local measurement technique, called the Image Correlation Method (ICM) provides an accurate strain analysis by revealing strain concentrations and avoids damaging the tissue. The methodology has first been applied to human forehead skin and can be further expanded to other planar soft tissues. The failure characteristics for the skin in terms of ultimate stress are 3 MPa +/- 1.5 MPa. The ultimate global longitudinal strains are equal to 9.5%+/-1.9% (Green-Lagrange strain), which contrasts with the ultimate local longitudinal strain values of 24.0%+/-5.3% (Green-Lagrange strain). This difference is a consequence of the tissue heterogeneity, clearly illustrated by the heterogeneous distribution of the local strain field. All data will assist in developing the tissue constitutive law that will be implemented in finite element models.
Genetic variants of collagen III and abdominal aortic aneurysm.	Collagens provide the tensile strength of the aortic wall. Variations in collagen structure are recognised in Ehlers Danlos syndrome type IV and could also be associated with a predisposition to aortic aneurysm. The frequency of some minor genetic variants of type III collagen, present in the normal population, can be detected by restriction enzyme digestion of genomic DNA from peripheral leucocytes. The frequency of a minor collagen type III allele demonstrated with the restriction enzyme Ava II was compared in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (n = 70) and aortoiliac stenosis (n = 47). The frequency of the minor allele was significantly higher in aneurysm patients (0.30) compared with patients with aortoiliac stenosis (0.17), p less than 0.05. The presence of the minor allele was associated with a less elastic aneurysm wall (median pressure strain elastic modulus 4575, n = 7), compared with patients homozygous for the common allele (median pressure strain elastic modulus 1990, n = 6), p less than 0.05. These results indicate that genetic variants of type III collagen may influence the extensile properties of the aortic wall and that mutations in the type III collagen gene may be associated with aortic aneurysms.
Longitudinal residual strain and stress-strain relationship in rat small intestine.	To obtain a more detailed description of the stress-free state of the intestinal wall, longitudinal residual strain measurements are needed. Furthermore, data on longitudinal stress-strain relations in visceral organs are scarce. The present study aims to investigate the longitudinal residual strain and the longitudinal stress-strain relationship in the rat small intestine.
Mechanics of bone/PMMA composite structures: an in vitro study of human vertebrae.	The goal of this study was to provide material property data for the cement/bone composite resulting from the introduction of PMMA bone cement into human vertebral bodies. A series of quasistatic tensile and compressive mechanical tests were conducted using cement/bone composite structures machined from cement-infiltrated vertebral bodies. Experiments were performed both at room temperature and at body temperature. We found that the modulus of the composite structures was lower than bulk cement (p<0.0001). For compression at 37( composite function)C: composite =2.3+/-0.5GPa, cement =3.1+/-0.2GPa; at 23( composite function)C: composite =3.0+/-0.3GPa, cement =3.4+/-0.2GPa. Specimens tested at room temperature were stiffer than those tested at body temperature (p=0.0004). Yield and ultimate strength factors for the composite were all diminished (55-87%) when compared to cement properties. In general, computational models have assumed that cement/bone composite had the same modulus as cement. The results of this study suggest that computational models of cement infiltrated vertebrae and cemented arthroplasties could be improved by specifying different material properties for cement and cement/bone composite.
Biomechanical properties of the biceps-labral complex submitted to mechanical stress.	To determine biomechanical properties of the superior labrum-biceps tendon complex submitted to continuous and sudden mechanical strain.
Assessment of the strength of minicapsulorhexes.	To evaluate the effect of age, size, position, and species on the strength of minicapsulorhexes.
Inflammatory cells do not decrease the ultimate tensile strength of intact tendons in vivo and in vitro: protective role of mechanical loading.	Although inflammatory cells and their products are involved in various pathological processes, a possible role in tendon dysfunction has never been convincingly confirmed and extensively investigated. The goal of this study was to determine whether or not an acute inflammatory process deprived of mechanical trauma can induce nonspecific damages to intact collagen fibers. To induce leukocyte accumulation, carrageenan was injected into rat Achilles tendons. We first tested the effect of leukocyte recruitment on the concentrations or activities of matrix metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases. Second, we analyzed at the biochemical, histological, and biomechanical levels the impact of leukocyte invasion on tendons. Finally, collagen bundles isolated from rat-tail tendons were exposed in vitro to mechanical stress and/or inflammatory cells to determine if mechanical loading could protect tendons from the leukocyte proteolytic activity. Carrageenan-induced leukocyte accumulation was associated with an increased matrix metalloproteinase activity and a decreased content of tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases. However, hydroxyproline content and load to failure did not change significantly in these tendons. Interestingly, mechanical stress, when applied in vitro, protected collagen bundles from inflammatory cell-induced deterioration. Together, our results suggest that acute inflammation does not induce damages to intact and mechanically stressed collagen fibers. This protective effect would not rely on increased tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases content but would rather be conferred to the intrinsic resistance of mechanically loaded collagen fibers to proteolytic degradation.
A bilinear stress-strain relationship for arteries.	A comprehensive understanding of the mechanical properties of blood vessels is essential for vascular physiology, pathophysiology and tissue engineering. A well-known approach to study the elasticity of blood vessels is to postulate a strain energy function such as the exponential or polynomial forms. It is typically difficult to fit experimental data to derive material parameters for blood vessels, however, due to the highly nonlinear nature of the stress-strain relation. In this work, we generalize the strain definition to absorb the elastic nonlinearity and then propose a two-dimensional bilinear stress-strain relation between second Piola-Kirchhoff stress and the new strain measure. The model is found to represent the Fung's exponential model very well. The novel linearized constitutive relation simplifies the determination of material constants by reducing the nonlinearity and provides a clearer physical interpretation of the model parameters. The limitations of the constitutive model and its implications for vascular mechanics are discussed.
Fatty acids reduce the tensile strength of fungal hyphae during cephalosporin C production in Acremonium chrysogenum.	Fragmentation rate constants, which can be used to estimate the tensile strength of fungal hyphae, were used to elucidate relationships between morphological changes and addition of fatty acids during cephalosporin C production in Acremonium chrysogenum M35. The number of arthrospores increased gradually during fermentation, and, in particular, was higher in the presence of rice oil, oleic acid or linoleic acid than in their absence. Because supplementation of rice oil or fatty acids increased cephalosporin C, we concluded that differentiation to arthrospores is related to cephalosporin C production. To estimate the relative tensile strengths of fungal hyphae, fragmentation rate constants (k (frag)) were measured. When rice oil, oleic acid, or linoleic acid were added into medium, fragmentation rate constants were higher than for the control, and hyphal tensile strengths reduced. The relative tensile strength of fungal hyphae, however was not constant presumably due to differences in physiological state.
Age-related factors affecting the postyield energy dissipation of human cortical bone.	The risk of bone fracture depends in part on tissue quality, not just the size and mass. This study assessed the postyield energy dissipation of cortical bone in tension as a function of age and composition. Specimens were prepared from tibiae of human cadavers in which male and female donors were divided into two age groups: middle aged (51 to 56 years, n = 9) and elderly (72 to 90 years, n = 8). By loading, unloading, and reloading a specimen with rest periods inserted in between, tensile properties at incremental strain levels were assessed. In addition, postyield toughness was estimated and partitioned as plastic strain energy related to permanent deformation, released elastic strain energy related to stiffness loss, and hysteresis energy related to viscous behavior. Porosity, mineral and collagen content, and collagen crosslinks of each specimen were also measured to determine the micro- and ultrastructural properties of the tissue. Age affected all the energy terms plus strength but not elastic stiffness. The postyield energy terms were correlated with porosity, pentosidine (a marker of nonenzymatic crosslinks), and collagen content, all of which varied significantly with age. General linear models suggested that pentosidine concentration and collagen content provided the best explanation of the age-related decrease in the postyield energy dissipation. Among them, pentosidine concentration had the greatest contribution to plastic strain energy and was the best explanatory variable of damage accumulation.
A critical damping approach for assessing the role of marrow fat on the mechanical strength of trabecular bone.	Several clinical findings revealed that post-menopausal osteoporosis and age-related osteopenia are accompanied by trabecular bone marrow fat (BMF) increase. To help understand this phenomenon, a vibrating string model is proposed, based on the hypothesis that, when bone marrow properties change, the trabecular bone structure remodels itself to preserve its critical damping state. It is found that an inverse relationship holds between trabecular average length and marrow damping coefficient. Such a result leads us to hypothesize the following bone-weakening mechanism. Since fat-rich bone marrow is a worse damper, a BMF increment causes an increase of trabecular average length, which is accomplished by the absorption of horizontal trabeculae (structurally less important than vertical trabeculae). The resulting bone patterns are in excellent agreement with clinical observations of osteoporotic bone. A definitive confirmation of the proposed mechanism will support a therapeutical approach to widespread osteopenic diseases aimed at avoiding, or limiting, BMF increase.
Behaviours of three-dimensional compressive and tensile forces exerted on a tooth during function.	The 3-D tensile and compressive forces exerted on a tooth were measured in vivo during function using a force-measuring device including a piezoelectric transducer. The device was mounted on the maxillary left second molar of a healthy male subject; the subject tooth had been endodontically treated and prepared for metal abutment and a crown. The 3-D forces were expressed as a vector of the coordinates based on the Frankfort horizontal (x-y) and sagittal (y-z) planes. The device captured the sequential changes in the forces. The directions of the forces changed during not only chewing a caramel or a peanut but also maximum voluntary clenching (MVC). As the magnitudes of the force increased during both MVC and caramel chewing (CaC), the force vector tended to correspond to the direction of the palatal root, medially and posteriorly. The compressive forces during MVC and caramel and peanut chewing were 173.29+/-15.32, 146.3+/-14.7 and 57.7+/-35.7 N, respectively. The force vector during MVC was directed from the crown to the root medially at an angle of 10.27+/-1.00 degrees from the y-z plane and posteriorly at an angle of 3.18+/-0.85 degrees from the x-z plane to the perpendicular line of the F-H plane. There were significant differences in the behaviour of the compressive forces between clenching and chewing. The tensile force was recorded during CaC, not peanut chewing.
Comparative study of the hyperbaric hyperoxygenation in ischemic colonic loops in rats.	To analyze and to evaluate the effect of the hyperbaric hyperoxygenation in the mechanical resistance of ischemic colon of rats.
Why do membranes rupture at term? Evidence of increased cellular apoptosis in the supracervical fetal membranes.	Reduced tensile strength of the human fetal membranes overlying the cervix has previously been identified. We used transcervical application of Bonney's blue dye, before the onset of term labor to identify the supracervical membranes for analysis after elective cesarean section delivery. We hypothesized that pro- and antiapoptotic proteins, which are representative of both the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways, would be expressed differentially in the supracervical membranes compared with membranes taken from distal sites. Membrane apoptosis would provide a mechanism for the reduced tensile strength that presumably precedes spontaneous intrapartum rupture of the membranes.
Methodology for dynamic biaxial tension testing of pregnant uterine tissue.	Placental abruption accounts for 50% to 70% of fetal losses in motor vehicle crashes. Since automobile crashes are the leading cause of traumatic fetal injury mortality in the United States, research of this injury mechanism is important. Before research can adequately evaluate current and future restraint designs, a detailed model of the pregnant uterine tissues is necessary. The purpose of this study is to develop a methodology for testing the pregnant uterus in biaxial tension at a rate normally seen in a motor vehicle crash. Since the majority of previous biaxial work has established methods for quasi-static testing, this paper combines previous research and new methods to develop a custom designed system to strain the tissue at a dynamic rate. Load cells and optical markers are used for calculating stress strain curves of the perpendicular loading axes. Results for this methodology show images of a tissue specimen loaded and a finite verification of the optical strain measurement. The biaxial test system dynamically pulls the tissue to failure with synchronous motion of four tissue grips that are rigidly coupled to the tissue specimen. The test device models in situ loading conditions of the pregnant uterus and overcomes previous limitations of biaxial testing. A non-contact method of measuring strains combined with data reduction to resolve the stresses in two directions provides the information necessary to develop a three dimensional constitutive model of the material. Moreover, future research can apply this method to other soft tissues with similar in situ loading conditions.
Utilizing cryogenic grips for dynamic tension testing of human placenta tissue.	Computational models are used to investigate placental abruption in motor vehicle crashes, which is the leading cause of traumatic fetal injury mortality in the United States. Material parameters for computational modeling of pregnant occupant kinematics come from early research on placenta tissue at quasi-static loading rates. The purpose of this research is to develop a methodology for using cryogenic grips to test placenta specimens in uniaxial tension at a rate normally seen in a motor vehicle crash. For dynamic testing of placental tissue, implementing and adapting a cryogenic grip mechanism provides the ability to grip the tissue throughout the thickness and eliminates potential slipping of the tissue in the grip during the dynamic test. The validation for using the cryogenic grips is presented with video images of a typical test event showing the tissue failing in the active area. Additionally, local and global strain measures are compared to confirm the tissue strain is similar throughout the specimen. The cryogenic grips provide a low-cost and effective method of gripping and pulling a thick soft tissue in uniaxial tension. As a result, these methods can be used to acquire the material properties of placenta tissue loaded at a dynamic rate to apply in a computational pregnant model.
Microcracking damage and the fracture process in relation to strain rate in human cortical bone tensile failure.	It is difficult to define the 'physiological' mechanical properties of bone. Traumatic failures in-vivo are more likely to be orders of magnitude faster than the quasistatic tests usually employed in-vitro. We have reported recently [Hansen, U., Zioupos, P., Simpson, R., Currey, J.D., Hynd, D., 2008. The effect of strain rate on the mechanical properties of human cortical bone. Journal of Biomechanical Engineering/Transactions of the ASME 130, 011011-1-8] results from tests on specimens of human femoral cortical bone loaded in tension at strain rates (epsilon ) ranging from low (0.08s(-1)) to high (18s(-1)). Across this strain rate range the modulus of elasticity generally increased, stress at yield and failure and strain at failure decreased for rates higher than 1s(-1), while strain at yield was invariant for most strain rates and only decreased at rates higher than 10s(-1). The results showed that strain rate has a stronger effect on post-yield deformation than on initiation of macroscopic yielding. In general, specimens loaded at high strain rates were brittle, while those loaded at low strain rates were much tougher. Here, a post-test examination of the microcracking damage reveals that microcracking was inversely related to the strain rate. Specimens loaded at low strain rates showed considerable post-yield strain and also much more microcracking. Partial correlation and regression analysis suggested that the development of post-yield strain was a function of the amount of microcracking incurred (the cause), rather than being a direct result of the strain rate (the excitation). Presumably low strain rates allow time for microcracking to develop, which increases the compliance of the specimen, making them tougher. This behaviour confirms a more general rule that the degree to which bone is brittle or tough depends on the amount of microcracking damage it is able to sustain. More importantly, the key to bone toughness is its ability to avoid a ductile-to-brittle transition for as long as possible during the deformation. The key to bone's brittleness, on the other hand, is the strain and damage localisation early on in the process, which leads to low post-yield strains and low-energy absorption to failure.
Cartilage is held together by elastic glycan strings. Physiological and pathological implications.	Animal shapes are maintained by connective tissue extracellular matrices (ECMs). ECM shapes depend on keeping collagen fibrils in the right places, held by regular frequent proteoglycan (PG) bridges attached at specific sites. The PGs carry anionic glycosaminoglycan (AGAG) 'strings' that span and determine interfibrillar distances, thus holding us together. I called these repeating structures 'shape modules'. The strings are aggregated antiparallel chains of dermochondan, keratan and chondroitan sulphates (DS, KS and CS); stabilised by hydrophobic and H-bonds. Shape modules are elastic. AGAG/AGAG interactions break under stress and reform when the stress is removed and/or they contain an elastic sugar, L-iduronate (in DS). Cartilage ECMs are also based on shape modules. Depots therein of aggrecan, the large PG which carries many chains of CS and KS, imbibe water, thereby exerting swelling pressure. External pressure forces this water into the elastic shape modules, from whence it is returned post compression. Cartilage anisotropic responses (along and at right angles to shape module axes) to compressive and tensile stresses are now interpretable. Degradation of shape modules in osteoarthrosis reduces these responses. Inability to hold collagen fibrils together results in imbibition of excess water, fissuring and erosion, characteristic of this condition.
Load elongation behavior of the canine anterior cruciate ligament.	This paper describes the results of an investigation on the mechanical properties of canine anterior cruciate ligaments. A total of 38 ligaments were tested. It is shown that the completely reversible (elastic) range of strain is limited to 14 percent elongation, corresponding to an applied load of 200 N. Within this range each specimen was tested at different strain rates varying from 0.12 percent/s to 220 percent/s and it is demonstrated that the mechanical behavior of the ligaments is not sensitive to strain rate in the range investigated. After completion of tests in the reversible range, of strain ten ligaments were frozen and similar tests were performed after thawing. It is shown that freezing produces alterations of the mechanical properties. The ligaments become more rigid than when they are tested in fresh conditions. From room temperature up to 45C, the load-elongation relationship is not significantly dependent upon test temperature.
Effects of cyclic dynamic tensile strain on previously compressed inner annulus fibrosus and nucleus pulposus cells of human intervertebral disc-an in vitro study.	Our objective was to investigate whether dynamic tensile strain on previously compressed human intervertebral disc (IVD) cells can restore the biosynthetic effects of collagen and glycosaminoglycan. Inner annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) tissues of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis cases undergoing thoracoscopic discectomy and fusion were cultured on compressive plates. Compressive stress was applied using 0.4 MPa at 1 Hz, for 2 h twice a day for 7 days, to the inner AF and NP tissues, followed by equibiaxial cyclic tensile strain to deform the released cells onto the plate's flexible bottom. With 10% elongation at a rate of 1 Hz, for 2 h twice a day for 7 days, a significant increase in the level of collagen and glycosaminoglycan of the previously compressed inner AF, as well as the level of glycosaminoglycan of the previously compressed NP cells were found. The DNA content and number of endoplasmic reticulum under transmission electron micrograph of the previously compressed inner AF and NP cell were also significantly increased. The results suggested that equibiaxial cyclic tensile strain at a rate of 1 Hz with 10% tensile strain was capable of increasing collagen and glycosaminoglycan synthesis of previously compressed inner AF cells, and glycosaminoglycan synthesis of previously compressed NP cells.
Cruciate ligament tensile forces during the forward and side lunge.	Although weight bearing lunge exercises are frequently employed during anterior cruciate ligament and posterior cruciate ligament rehabilitation, cruciate ligament tensile forces are currently unknown while performing forward and side lunge exercises with and without a stride.
Estimating zero-strain states of very soft tissue under gravity loading using digital image correlation.	This paper presents several experimental techniques and concepts in the process of measuring mechanical properties of very soft tissue in an ex vivo tensile test. Gravitational body force on very soft tissue causes pre-compression and results in a non-uniform initial deformation. The global digital image correlation technique is used to measure the full-field deformation behavior of liver tissue in uniaxial tension testing. A maximum stretching band is observed in the incremental strain field when a region of tissue passes from compression and enters a state of tension. A new method for estimating the zero-strain state is proposed: the zero strain position is close to, but ahead of the position of the maximum stretching band, or in other words, the tangent of a nominal stress-stretch curve reaches minimum at lambda greater or similar 1. The approach, to identify zero strain by using maximum incremental strain, can be implemented in other types of image-based soft tissue analysis. The experimental results of 10 samples from seven porcine livers are presented and material parameters for the Ogden model fit are obtained. The finite element simulation based on the fitted model confirms the effect of gravity on the deformation of very soft tissue and validates our approach.
Tensile properties of the annulus fibrosus II. Ultimate tensile strength and fatigue life.	Part I of this study showed that collagen fibres do need not need to be continuous to reinforce the annulus fibrosus, and that 15-mm-wide samples of annulus retain about 44% of their in situ stiffness and strength when stretched vertically. Part II investigated the ultimate tensile strength (UTS) and fatigue life of such samples. Vertical slices, 5 mm thick and 30 mm wide, were cut from the anterior and posterior margins of the annulus and adjacent vertebral bodies. Each slice was divided sagittally to obtain a matched pair of specimens. The bony ends of each specimen were secured in a materials testing machine so that the annulus could be stretched vertically, as occurs during bending movements of the spine in life. One of each pair of specimens was stretched to failure to obtain its UTS; the other was cyclically loaded at some fraction of the UTS until failure occurred. Tensile failure started with the hyaline cartilage end-plate being stripped off the underlying bone and ended with the most peripheral annular fibres pulling out of the matrix. The estimated in situ strength in the vertical direction was 3.9 MPa for the anterior annulus and 8.6 MPa for the posterior annulus. Fatigue failure could occur in less than 10000 cycles if the tensile force exceeded 45% of the UTS. The results explain why radial fissures often fail to penetrate the peripheral annulus. When compared with in vivo measurements of spinal loading, they suggest that repetitive forward bending movements could cause fatigue failure of the posterior annulus.
Influence of material properties on the mechanical behaviour of the L5-S1 intervertebral disc in compression: a nonlinear finite element study.	A simple finite element model of the L5-S1 intervertebral disc body has been constructed; it is circular and symmetrical about the sagittal plane. The annulus fibrosus of the model was idealized as an inhomogeneous composite of an isotropic ground substance, reinforced by helically oriented collagen fibres so that the model has six different structural components namely: cortical bone, cancellous bone, cartilaginous endplates, nucleus pulposus, ground substance and collagen fibres. A sensitivity analysis of the material properties of each structural component was carried out by varying those properties for one structural component at a time and evaluating the changes in the biomechanical response to compressive displacements. Experimentally available relations between the applied compressive force and the vertical displacements, the nucleus pulposus pressure increase and the disc lateral bulge were used to evaluate the biomechanical responses for each set of material properties. Results showed that both the Poisson's ratio and the Young's modulus of the ground substance play an important role in the prediction of the biomechanical response.
A hyperelastic and almost incompressible material model as an approach to intervertebral disc analysis.	The literature contains many references to intervertebral disc analysis using experimental techniques which represent a basis for analytical and numerical approaches. The scatter of experimental results may be one reason for difficulties in interpretation. Apart from analytical approaches, which often seem inadequate to deal with the peculiar complexities of the problem, numerical techniques are reliable and can lead to significant results. In this work, a formulation based on the finite element method is described, adopting a nonlinear model with hyperelastic material configuration. Particular attention is paid to modelling the material constituting the nucleus, involving incompressibility characteristics and avoiding simulation techniques. This approach allows the mechanical behavior of the real configuration of the disc to be investigated and also provides a reliable analysis of disc degeneration phenomena. The theoretical and operational aspects of the formulation are reported. The results obtained are compared with responses from various numerical and experimental data.
Sterilization effects on the mechanical properties of human bone-patellar tendon-bone allografts.	Novel allograft processing methods are available from tissue banks to decrease disease transmission. This study evaluated the effects of 3 of these techniques on the initial mechanical properties of bone-patellar tendon-bone (BPTB) allografts: (1) aseptic harvest with low-dose radiation processing, (2) BioCleanse Tissue Processing System, and (3) Clearant Process. Ten-mm BPTB allografts were potted in an MTS 858 machine (MTS Systems Corp, Eden Prairie, Minnesota), cycled, and loaded to failure at a strain rate of 100%/s. Data were critically analyzed for graft dimensions and age and sex of donor. The 10th cycle and last cycle stiffness after 1000 cycles were measured at the toe region and at all points. The 2% yield stress (MPa), Young's modulus (MPa), elongation failure (mm), strain fracture (%), ultimate stress (MPa), and toughness (kJ) were measured. Forty-two tendons were tested (15 control, 11 BioCleanse, and 16 Clearant). No statistically significant differences were detected between the groups at their 10th cycle and last cycle stiffness (P>.05). Yield stress ranged from 19 to 28.8 MPa without a statistically significant difference (P>.05). Young's modulus ranged from 178.3 to 213.8 MPa without a statistically significant difference (P>.05). Similarly, elongation to failure, strain to failure, ultimate stress, and toughness showed no statistically significant differences among the 3 groups (P>.05). These processing techniques did not affect the time zero mechanical properties of the BPTB allograft tendons under these testing conditions. Clinical use of allografts should proceed with caution for selected patients. 
Mechanical loading increased BMP-2 expression which promoted osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells.	This study aimed to investigate the effect of repetitive tensile loading on the expression of BMP-2 and the effect of BMP-2 on the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs) in vitro. Repetitive stretching was applied to TDSCs isolated from rat patellar tendon at 0%, 4%, and 8%, 0.5 Hz. The expression of BMP-2 was detected by Western blotting and qPCR. To study the osteogenic effects of BMP-2 on TDSCs, BMP-2 was added to the TDSC monolayer for the detection of ALP activity and calcium nodule formation in a separate experiment. TDSCs adhered, proliferated, and aligned along the direction of externally applied tensile force while they were randomly oriented in the control group. Western blotting showed increased expression of BMP-2 in 4% and 8% stretching groups but not in the control group. Up-regulation of BMP-2 mRNA was also observed in the 4% stretching group. BMP-2 increased the osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs as indicated by higher ALP cytochemical staining, ALP activity, and calcium nodule formation. Repetitive tensile loading increased the expression of BMP-2 and addition of BMP-2 enhanced osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs. Activation of BMP-2 expression in TDSCs during tendon overuse might provide a possible explanation of ectopic calcification in calcifying tendinopathy.
Attachment, spreading, and adhesion strength of human bone marrow cells on chitosan.	The successful integration of an orthopedic implant into bone depends on the mechanisms at the tissue-implant interface and mostly on the osteoblast attachment phenomenon. Chitosan has emerged as an attractive biomacromolecule favoring osseointegration. In this study highly deacetylated chitosan coatings, with roughness of about 1nm, were bonded to glass surfaces via silane-glutaraldehyde molecules. Human osteoblasts were used to study the development of attachment during the first 60min. Chitosan favored the number of the attached cells compared to the uncoated surfaces for 30min seeding time (t (s)). For t (s) up to 60min the attached cell area was almost 210% significantly higher on the chitosan surfaces, indicating an enhanced spreading process. To determine the cell attachment strength, a micropipette aspiration method was used, where the value of the term I=Fdt is representative of the single cell attachment-adhesion procedure and quantitatively reflects the strength evolution during attachment: F equals the detaching force applied on the cell. The results showed higher strength values on the chitosan surfaces. The findings reinforce the favorable environment of the biomacromolecule for the osteoblast and the new approach regarding the quantitatively evaluation of adhesion provides important contribution for the study of cell-material interaction, especially during the crucial first phase of cell attachment.
Initial fiber alignment pattern alters extracellular matrix synthesis in fibroblast-populated fibrin gel cruciforms and correlates with predicted tension.	Human dermal fibroblasts entrapped in fibrin gels cast in cross-shaped (cruciform) geometries with 1:1 and 1:0.5 ratios of arm widths were studied to assess whether tension and alignment of the cells and fibrils affected ECM deposition. The cruciforms of contrasting geometry (symmetric vs. asymmetric), which developed different fiber alignment patterns, were harvested at 2, 5, and 10weeks of culture. Cruciforms were subjected to planar biaxial testing, polarimetric imaging, DNA and biochemical analyses, histological staining, and SEM imaging. As the cruciforms compacted and developed fiber alignment, fibrin was degraded, and elastin and collagen were produced in a geometry-dependent manner. Using a continuum mechanical model that accounts for direction-dependent stress due to cell traction forces and cell contact guidance with aligned fibers that occurs in the cruciforms, the mechanical stress environment was concluded to influence collagen deposition, with deposition being the greatest in the narrow arms of the asymmetric cruciform where stress was predicted to be the largest.
Measuring the mechanical properties of single microbial cells.	Many cells are considered to be susceptible to mechanical forces or "shear" in bioprocessing, leading to undesirable cell breakage or adverse metabolic effects. However, cell breakage is the aim of some processing operations, in particular high-pressure homogenisation and other cell disruption methods. In either case, the exact mechanisms of damage or disruption are obscure. One reason for this is that the mechanical properties of the cells are generally unknown, which makes investigation or prediction of the damage difficult. There are several methods for measuring the mechanical properties of single microbial cells, and these are reviewed briefly. In the context of bioprocessing research, a powerful method of characterising the mechanical properties of single cells is compression testing using micromanipulation, supplemented by mathematical modelling of the cell behaviour in compression. The method and associated modelling are described, with results mainly from studies on yeast cells. Continuing difficulties in making a priori predictions of cell breakage in processing are identified. In future, compression testing by micromanipulation might also be used in conjunction with other single cell analytical techniques to study mechanisms controlling form, growth and division of cells and their consequential mechanical behaviour. It ought to be possible to relate cell wall mechanics to cell wall composition and structure, and eventually to underlying gene expression, allowing much greater understanding and control of the cell mechanical properties.
Considerations in membrane resealing after preterm PROM.	Current management of preterm premature rupture of the membranes centers around the expectant management with antibiotics and steroid therapy. Membrane rupture seems to be the result of a mechanical event. Studying the physical properties of the membranes may help to gain understanding of the nature and causes of membrane rupture. This article reviews membrane mechanics, advances in membrane healing, and strategies in the prevention of membrane rupture. The physiologic mechanisms that lead to membrane rupture have not yet been fully elucidated. Models that test the biomechanics of the membranes should be used to develop strategies for repair or prevention.
A biomechanical comparison of the primary stability of two minimally invasive techniques for repair of ruptured Achilles tendon.	To compare the primary stability of two minimally invasive procedures of Achilles tendon (AT) repair, namely a modified percutaneous repair of ruptured AT and the Achillon suture configuration.
Cyclic test comparison of all-inside device and inside-out sutures for radial meniscus lesion repair: an in vitro porcine model study.	To compare biomechanical fixation and gapping characteristics of a new all-inside meniscus repair method for radial meniscus lesion repair versus conventional inside-out suture repair under submaximal cyclic loading and load-to-failure test conditions.
Mechanisms of greater cardiomyocyte functions on conductive nanoengineered composites for cardiovascular application.	Recent advances in nanotechnology (materials with at least one dimension between 1 nm and 100 nm) have led to the use of nanomaterials in numerous medical device applications. Recently, nanomaterials have been used to create innovative biomaterials for cardiovascular applications. Specifically, carbon nanofibers (CNF) embedded in poly(lactic-co-glycolic-acid) (PLGA) have been shown to promote cardiomyocyte growth compared with conventional polymer substrates, but the mechanisms involved in such events remain unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the basic mechanism of cell growth on these novel nanocomposites.
Second trimester ultrasound: reference values for two-dimensional speckle tracking-derived longitudinal strain, strain rate and time to peak deformation of the fetal heart.	Data on myocardial deformation during the internationally widely used second-trimester screening are scarce and confusing. Reference values of time to peak strain are missing. The aims of this study were to assess reference values derived from two-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography for global and regional longitudinal right ventricular (RV) and left ventricular (LV) strain, strain rate, and time to peak global strain and to determine the influence of heart rate and gender on these strain parameters.
Constitutive formulations for the mechanical investigation of colonic tissues.	A constitutive framework is provided for the characterization of the mechanical behavior of colonic tissues, as a fundamental tool for the development of numerical models of the colonic structures. The constitutive analysis is performed by a multidisciplinary approach that requires the cooperation between experimental and computational competences. The preliminary investigation pertains to the review of the tissues histology. The complex structural configuration of the tissues and the specific distributions of fibrous elements entail the nonlinear mechanical behavior and the anisotropic response. The identification of the mechanical properties requires to perform mechanical tests according to different loading situations, as different loading directions. Because of the typical functionality of colon structures, the tissues mechanics is investigated by tensile tests, which are performed on taenia coli and haustra specimens from fresh pig colons. Accounting for the histological investigation and the results from the mechanical tests, a specific hyperelastic framework is provided within the theory of fiber-reinforced composite materials. Preliminary analytical formulations are defined to identify the constitutive parameters by the inverse analysis of the experimental tests. Finite element models of the specimens are developed accounting for the actual configuration of the colon structures to verify the quality of the results. The good agreement between experimental and numerical model results suggests the reliability of the constitutive formulations and parameters. Finally, the developed constitutive analysis makes it possible to identify the mechanical behavior and properties of the different colonic tissues.
The emergence of an unusual stiffness profile in hierarchical biological tissues.	Biological tissues usually exhibit complex multiscale structural architectures. In many of these, and particularly in mineralized tissues, the basic building block is a staggered array-a composite material made of soft matrix and stiff reinforcing elements. Here we study the stiffness of non-overlapping staggered arrays, a case that has not previously been considered in the literature, and introduce closed-form analytical expressions for its Young's modulus. These expressions are then used to estimate the stiffness of natural staggered biocomposites such as low-mineralized collagen fibril and mineralized tendon. We then consider a two-scale composite scheme for evaluating the modulus of a specific hierarchical structure, the compact bone tissue, which is made of mineralized collagen fibrils with weakly overlapping staggered architecture. It is found that small variations in the staggered structure induce significant differences in the macroscopic stiffness, and, in particular, provide a possible explanation for the as yet unexplained stiffening effects observed in medium-mineralized tissues. 
Computer-assisted measurements of coronal knee joint laxity in vitro are related to low-stress behavior rather than structural properties of the collateral ligaments.	The relationship between coronal knee laxity and the restraining properties of the collateral ligaments remains unknown. This study investigated correlations between the structural properties of the collateral ligaments and stress angles used in computer-assisted total knee arthroplasty (TKA), measured with an optically based navigation system. Ten fresh-frozen cadaveric knees (mean age: 81  11 years) were dissected to leave the menisci, cruciate ligaments, posterior joint capsule and collateral ligaments. The resected femur and tibia were rigidly secured within a test system which permitted kinematic registration of the knee using a commercially available image-free navigation system. Frontal plane knee alignment and varus-valgus stress angles were acquired. The force applied during varus-valgus testing was quantified. Medial and lateral bone-collateral ligament-bone specimens were then prepared, mounted within a uni-axial materials testing machine, and extended to failure. Force and displacement data were used to calculate the principal structural properties of the ligaments. The mean varus laxity was 4  1 and the mean valgus laxity was 4  2. The corresponding mean manual force applied was 10  3 N and 11  4 N, respectively. While measures of knee laxity were independent of the ultimate tensile strength and stiffness of the collateral ligaments, there was a significant correlation between the force applied during stress testing and the instantaneous stiffness of the medial (r = 0.91, p = 0.001) and lateral (r = 0.68, p = 0.04) collateral ligaments. These findings suggest that clinicians may perceive a rate of change of ligament stiffness as the end-point during assessment of collateral knee laxity.
Contribution of posterolateral corner structures to knee joint translational and rotational stabilities: a computational study.	It has been reported that posterolateral corner structures, including the lateral collateral ligament, the popliteus tendon, and the popliteofibular ligament, may play important roles in reducing external rotational and posterior translational instabilities. However, there are few studies focusing on the quantitative influence of posterolateral corner structures on knee joint stability, due to the difficulty of controlling experimental conditions. In this study, a knee model that included posterolateral corner structures was developed. It was validated by comparison to previous experimental studies using the posterior drawer test, dial test, and varus stress test. The posterior translation, external rotation, and varus rotation were then predicted in order to investigate the contribution of posterolateral corner structures to translational and rotational stabilities. Our results indicate that posterolateral corner structures, including the popliteofibular ligament and the popliteus tendon, could contribute to posterior translational and external rotational stabilities, as clinical observations had suggested. Therefore, the addition of posterolateral corner structures to knee joint models may improve the utility of such models. 
Determination of remodeling parameters for a strain-adaptive finite element model of the distal ulna.	Strain energy-based adaptive material models are used to predict bone resorption resulting from stress shielding induced by prosthetic joint implants. Generally, such models are governed by two key parameters: a homeostatic strain-energy state (K) and a threshold deviation from this state required to initiate bone reformation (s). A refinement procedure has been performed to estimate these parameters in the femur and glenoid; this study investigates the specific influences of these parameters on resulting density distributions in the distal ulna. A finite element model of a human ulna was created using micro-computed tomography (CT) data, initialized to a homogeneous density distribution, and subjected to approximate in vivo loading. Values for K and s were tested, and the resulting steady-state density distribution compared with values derived from CT images. The sensitivity of these parameters to initial conditions was examined by altering the initial homogeneous density value. The refined model parameters selected were then applied to six additional human ulnae to determine their performance across individuals. Model accuracy using the refined parameters was found to be comparable with that found in previous studies of the glenoid and femur, and gross bone structures, such as the cortical shell and medullary canal, were reproduced. The model was found to be insensitive to initial conditions; however, a fair degree of variation was observed between the six specimens. This work represents an important contribution to the study of changes in load transfer in the distal ulna following the implementation of commercial orthopedic implants. 
Comparison between FEBio and Abaqus for biphasic contact problems.	Articular cartilage plays an important role in the function of diarthrodial joints. Computational methods have been used to study the biphasic mechanics of cartilage, and Abaqus has been one of the most widely used commercial software packages for this purpose. A newly developed open-source finite element solver, FEBio, has been developed specifically for biomechanical applications. The aim of this study was to undertake a direct comparison between FEBio and Abaqus for some practical contact problems involving cartilage. Three model types, representing a porous flat-ended indentation test, a spherical-ended indentation test, and a conceptual natural joint contact model, were compared. In addition, a parameter sensitivity study was also performed for the spherical-ended indentation test to investigate the effects of changes in the input material properties on the model outputs, using both FEBio and Abaqus. Excellent agreement was found between FEBio and Abaqus for all of the model types and across the range of material properties that were investigated. 
Reproducibility of myocardial strain and left ventricular twist measured using complementary spatial modulation of magnetization.	To establish the reproducibility of complementary spatial modulation of magnetization (CSPAMM) tagged cardiovascular MR (CMR) data in normal volunteers.
Biomechanical evaluation of augmented and nonaugmented primary repair of the anterior cruciate ligament: an in vivo animal study.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate in a sheep model the biomechanical performance of augmented and nonaugmented primary repair of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) following transection at the femoral end during a 12-month postoperative observation.
An in vivo ovine model of bone tissue alterations in simulated microgravity conditions.	Microgravity and its inherent reduction in body-weight associated mechanical loading encountered during spaceflight have been shown to produce deleterious effects on important human physiological processes. Rodent hindlimb unloading is the most widely-used ground-based microgravity model. Unfortunately, results from these studies are difficult to translate to the human condition due to major anatomic and physiologic differences between the two species such as bone microarchitecture and healing rates. The use of translatable ovine models to investigate orthopedic-related conditions has become increasingly popular due to similarities in size and skeletal architecture of the two species. Thus, a new translational model of simulated microgravity was developed using common external fixation techniques to shield the metatarsal bone of the ovine hindlimb during normal daily activity over an 8 week period. Bone mineral density, quantified via dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, decreased 29.0% (p&lt;0.001) in the treated metatarsi. Post-sacrifice biomechanical evaluation revealed reduced bending modulus (-25.8%, p&lt;0.05) and failure load (-27.8%, p&lt;0.001) following the microgravity treatment. Microcomputed tomography and histology revealed reduced bone volume (-35.9%, p&lt;0.01), trabecular thickness (-30.9%, p&lt;0.01), trabecular number (-22.5%, p&lt;0.05), bone formation rate (-57.7%, p&lt;0.01), and osteoblast number (-52.5%, p&lt;0.001), as well as increased osteoclast number (269.1%, p&lt;0.001) in the treated metatarsi of the microgravity group. No significant alterations occurred for any outcome parameter in the Sham Surgery Group. These data indicate that the external fixation technique utilized in this model was able to effectively unload the metatarsus and induce significant radiographic, biomechanical, and histomorphometric alterations that are known to be induced by spaceflight. Further, these findings demonstrate that the physiologic mechanisms driving bone remodeling in sheep and humans during prolonged periods of unloading (specifically increased osteoclast activity) are more similar than previously utilized models, allowing more comprehensive investigations of microgravity-related bone remodeling as it relates to human spaceflight. 
Skin viscoelasticity in incipient gravitational syndrome.	The gravitational syndrome resulting from venous pressure elevation occasionally develops on the legs during pregnancy. The limb tends to enlarge and become stiffer. The body contours are altered.
Silk and collagen scaffolds for tendon reconstruction.	In this study, silk thread (Bombyx mori) was braided to a tube-like shape and sericin was removed from the silk tube. Thereafter, collagen/chondroitin-6-sulfate solution was poured into the silk tube, and the lyophilization process was performed. To assess the inflammatory response in vivo, raw silk and sericin-free silk tubes were implanted in the subcutaneous layer of mice. After 10 days of in vivo implantation, mild inflammatory responses were observed around the sericin-free silk tubes, and severe inflammation with the presence of neutrophils and macrophages was observed around the raw silk tubes. At 24 weeks post implantation, the regenerated tendon had a thick, cylindrical, grayish fibrous structure and a shiny white appearance, similar to that of the native tendon in the rabbit model of tendon defect. The average tensile strength of the native tendons was 220  20 N, whereas the average tensile strength of the regenerated tendons was 167  30 N and the diameter of the regenerated tendon (3  0.2 mm) was similar to that of the native tendons (4  0.3 mm). Histologically, the regenerated tendon resembled the native tendon, and all the regenerated tissues showed organized bundles of crimped fibers. Masson trichrome staining was performed for detecting collagen synthesis, and it showed that the artificial tendon was replaced by new collagen fibers and extracellular matrix. However, the regenerated tendon showed fibrosis to a certain degree. In conclusion, the artificial tendon, comprising a braided silk tube and lyophilized collagen sponge, was optimal for tendon reconstruction. Thus, this study showed an improved regeneration of neo-tendon tissues, which have the structure and tensile strength of the native tendon, with the use of the combination of collagen and silk scaffold.
Transmission of rapidly applied loads through articular cartilage. Part 1: Uncracked cartilage.	An elastostatic model of rapidly loaded articular cartilage is presented. It is assumed that the cartilage experiences little volumetric change or interstitial fluid flow while loaded instantaneously. Subchondral bone compliance and articular surface friction are incorporated. Integral representations of the stress distributions within cartilage are derived using Fourier transform techniques and the integrals are solved numerically. Localized tensile stresses are found and occur in regions close to the cartilage-bone interface as well as at the articular surface, outside the embrace of the load. The qualitative similarity between the results and those of previous investigations is explained by an elementary equilibrium analysis. The stress distributions suggest that the splits and cracks observed in diseased cartilage may be initiated, or propagated, by tensile stress.
Transmission of rapidly applied loads through articular cartilage. Part 2: Cracked cartilage.	A model of articular cartilage suffering rapidly applied loads and containing splits and fissures is presented. The possibility of cracks propagating through the cartilage collagen network is analysed using elastic fracture mechanics. Cracks are modelled using the distributed dislocation technique and the crack tip stress intensity factors are thereby evaluated. The mode I (tensile) stress intensity factors are generally much larger than the mode II (shearing) factors for cracks at the articular surface and close to, and at oblique angles to, the cartilage-bone interface, two regions where cartilage cracks have been observed. This suggests an opening, tensile mode of failure. The mode II factors are larger for cracks running along the interface. The rapidly loaded cracked cartilage model may explain the splits observed in osteoarthrotic cartilage.
A biomechanical study of Jefferson fractures.	Fifteen specimens of the first cervical vertebra were tested by the application of pure tensile forces to failure. Seven specimens had intact transverse ligaments, and eight had transection of the transverse ligament before testing. Specimens were tested to failure by the rapid application of laterally directed tensile force to the ring; this force then was exerted through the lateral masses to simulate the mechanism of injury for this fracture as proposed by Jefferson.
