Magnetic resonance imaging study of the morphometry of cervical extensor muscles in chronic tension-type headache.	This study analyses the differences in the relative cross-sectional area (rCSA) of several cervical extensor muscles, assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), between patients with chronic tension-type headache (CTTH) and healthy controls. MRI of the cervical spine was performed on 15 CTTH females and 15 matched controls. The rCSA values for the rectus capitis posterior minor (RCPmin), rectus capitis posterior major (RCPmaj), semispinalis capitis and splenius capitis muscles were measured from axial T1-weighted images using axial MR slices aligned parallel to the C2/3 intervertebral disc. A headache diary was kept for 4 weeks in order to substantiate the diagnosis and record the pain history. CTTH patients showed reduced rCSA for both RCPmin and RCPmaj muscles (P < 0.01), but not for semispinalis and splenius capitis muscles, compared with controls. Headache intensity, duration or frequency and rCSA in both RCPmin and RCPmaj muscles were negatively correlated (P < 0.05): the greater the headache intensity, duration or frequency, the smaller the rCSA in the RCPmin and RCPmaj muscles. CTTH patients demonstrate muscle atrophy of the rectus capitis posterior muscles. Whether this selective muscle atrophy is a primary or secondary phenomenon remains unclear. In any case, muscle atrophy could possibly account for a reduction of proprioceptive output from these muscles, and thus contribute to the perpetuation of pain.
Multi-center randomized control trial of etizolam plus NSAID combination for tension-type headache.	Benzodiazepines are commonly used for the treatment of tension-type headache (TTH), however, there are few randomized controlled trials recommending the use of these drugs in Japan. This study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of etizolam, a thienodiazepine derivative, in combination with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) as an acute treatment for TTH.
Mental processing in primary headache in children and adolescents]	Headaches in children and adolescents are the most common complaints in neurological practice. More than 90% of those are diagnosed as having migraine or tension-type headache (TTH). Memory disturbances are the most frequently observed symptoms in these patients. Event related potentials ( ERP), especially P300 potential reflect the processes of perception and cognition. The aim of these studies was to answer two questions: whether children and adolescents suffering from headache, especially migraine, show cognitive impairment in headache pain free period in comparison to healthy controls, and secondly what kind of factors can influence it.
Assessment of chosen cognitive functions in children and adolescents with primary headaches]	Foundations and aim of the study: Right development of cognitive functions is one of the basal factors, which determines good realization of the developmental tasks, for example achievement in education. Primary headaches especially migraine can be one of the important factor disturbing cognitive functioning of children and adolescents. The aim of the study was to estimate the level of some chosen aspects of cognitive and intellectual functioning of children and adolescents with primary headaches: migraine and tension type (TTH).
Chronic tension-type headache is associated with impaired motor learning.	Supraspinal activity-dependent neuroplasticity may be important in the transition from acute to chronic pain. We examined neuroplasticity in a cortical region not considered to be a primary component of the central pain matrix in chronic tension-type headache (CTTH) patients. We hypothesised that neuroplasticity would be exaggerated in CTTH patients compared to healthy controls, which might explain (in part) the development of chronic pain in these individuals.
Alcohol use problems in migraine and tension-type headache.	The aim of this study was to assess alcohol use problems in patients with migraine and tension-type headache.
