Releases of Psyttalia fletcheri (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) and sterile flies to suppress melon fly (Diptera: Tephritidae) in Hawaii.	Ivy gourd, Coccinia grandis (L.) Voigt, patches throughout Kailua-Kona, Hawaii Island, HI, were identified as persistent sources of melon fly, Bactrocera cucurbitae (Coquillett). These patches had a low incidence of Psyttalia fletcheri (Silvestri), its major braconid parasitoid natural enemy in Hawaii, and were used to evaluate augmentative releases of P. fletcheri against melon fly. In field cage studies of releases, numbers of melon flies emerging from ivy gourd fruit placed inside treatment cages were reduced up to 21-fold, and numbers of parasitoids were increased 11-fold. In open field releases of P. fletcheri into ivy gourd patches, parasitization rates were increased 4.7 times in release plots compared with those in control plots. However, there was no significant reduction in emergence of melon flies from fruit. In subsequent cage tests with sterile melon flies and P. fletcheri, combinations of sterile flies and P. fletcheri produced the greatest reduction (9-fold) in melon fly emergence from zucchini, Cucurbita pepo L. Reductions obtained with sterile flies alone or in combination with parasitoids were significantly greater than those in the control, whereas those for parasitoids alone were not. Although these results suggest that the effects of sterile flies were greater than those for parasitoids, from a multitactic melon fly management strategy, sterile flies would complement the effects of P. fletcheri. Cost and sustainability of these nonchemical approaches will be examined further in an ongoing areawide pest management program for melon fly in Hawaii.
Morphogenesis and cytopathic effects of the Diachasmimorpha longicaudata entomopoxvirus in host haemocytes.	The Diachasmimorpha longicaudata entomopoxvirus (DlEPV), the first reported symbiotic entomopoxvirus, occurs in the venom apparatus of D. longicaudata female wasps and is introduced into Anastrepha suspensa larvae during parasitism. The DlEPV 250-300 kb double stranded DNA genome encodes putative proteins having 30 to >60% amino acid identity with poxvirus homologs such as DNA helicase, DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, and the poxvirus-specific rifampicin resistance protein. Although the molecular characterization of DlEPV is progressing, little is known about its morphogenesis in and effects on host haemocytes. This paper describes (1) haemocytes of third instar A. suspensa, (2) DlEPV infection and morphogenesis, and (3) DlEPV-induced changes in haemocytes. A. suspensa third instars have 3-4 haemocyte morphotypes. Dot blots of DNA from infected haemocytes hybridized with a digoxigenin-labeled DlEPV genomic probe as early as 4 h post-parasitism (hpp) and the intensity of the signal increased with time through 40 hpp. Immunofluorescence microscopy localized DlEPV proteins in cytoplasmic (but not nuclear) sites of infected haemocytes, within 24-36 hpp. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of viral envelopes, immature spheroids with centric nucleoids, budding virus, and extracellular enveloped virus in three haemocyte types, 24-84 hpp and later. Infected haemocytes exhibited blebbing, DNA concatenation, and inability to encapsulate sephadex beads in vitro. These data indicate that DlEPV disrupts the normal function of host haemocytes, thereby insuring the successful development of D. longicaudata offspring and as such should be regarded as a symbiont of the wasp.
Transmission of the Diachasmimorpha longicaudata rhabdovirus (DlRhV) to wasp offspring: an ultrastructural analysis.	During oviposition, the parasitic wasp Diachasmimorpha longicaudata introduces an entomopoxvirus (DlEPV) and a rhabdovirus (DlRhV) into larvae of its tephritid fruit fly host Anastrepha suspensa. DlEPV and DlRhV replicate, respectively, in host hemocytes and epidermal cells. Both viruses, like many beneficial viruses of parasitic wasps, are retained in all wasp generations but their avenue(s) of transmission are unknown. This study tests the hypothesis that DlRhV is transmitted transovarially or through larval feeding on infected host hemolymph. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed no virions in pre-vitellogenic or vitellogenic ova, or in the lateral oviduct of D. longicaudata females. However, numerous virions occurred in subchorionic regions of 33-36-h-old oviposited eggs. This suggests that DlRhV is introduced into the egg either as (a) intact virions after chorionogenesis but prior to oviposition and/or as (b) unencapsidated RNA molecules, undetectable by TEM in pre-vitellogenic ova, that subsequently replicate and assemble into mature virions. DlRhV particles also occurred in the midgut lumen of 20-24-h-old wasp first instars, suggesting that they were ingested. These virions may have been released from the egg into the hemolymph during hatching or may have come from virions introduced by the female wasp directly into the host, separate from the egg. DlRhV particles were also evident in the intracellular vesicles and intercellular spaces of the larval midgut. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that DlRhV is transovarially transmitted as virions and/or as unencapsidated RNA. Further studies are needed to determine whether the DlRhV that ultimately resides within the female wasp's accessory gland filaments is the progeny of the virus from the egg and/or larval midgut cells.
The relative importance of resources and natural enemies in determining herbivore abundance: thistles, tephritids and parasitoids.	1. The relative importance of host-plant resources and natural enemies in influencing the abundance of insect herbivores was investigated in potted plant and natural population experiments, using tephritid (Diptera: Tephritidae) flies, their host plant, creeping thistle Cirsium arvense, and their Hymenoptera parasitoids. 2. Experimental manipulation of host-plant quality (i.e. levels of host-plant nutrients) and resource availability (i.e. the number of buds) increased tephritid abundance. There was no evidence that the seed-feeding tephritid fly Xyphosia miliaria preferentially oviposited on fertilized C. arvense. 3. At low thistle densities, X. miliaria showed a constant rate of resource exploitation. At higher thistle densities, a threshold was detected, above which additional buds were not attacked. 4. Parasitism attack was variable across host (tephritid) densities but levels of parasitism were consistently higher on the fertilized thistles. 5. Experimental manipulation of host-plant quality and resource availability (quantity) not only directly affects the tephritid population but also, indirectly, leads to high rates of parasitism. Both chemical and physical characteristics of host plants affect the performance of natural enemies. 6. Both top-down and bottom-up forces act to influence tephritid abundance, with bottom-up influences appearing to be the most important.
Performance of Psyttalia humilis (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) reared from irradiated host on olive fruit fly (Diptera: Tephritidae) in California.	The parasitoid Psyttalia humilis (Silvestri) was reared on Mediterranean fruit fly, Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann), third instars irradiated at 0-70 Gy at the USDA, APHIS, PPQ, Moscamed biological control laboratory in San Miguel Petapa, Guatemala, and shipped to the USDA, ARS,  Parlier, CA. Irradiation dose did not affect the parasitoid's offspring sex ratio (53-62% females), percentage of unemerged adults (12-34%), number of progeny produced per female (1.4-1.8), and parasitism (19-24%). Host irradiation dose had no significant effect  on the forewing length of female P. humilis and its parasitism on olive fruit fly, Bactrocera oleae (Rossi) and offspring sex ratio, but dissection of 1-wk-old female parasitoids reared from hosts irradiated with 70 Gy had a significantly lower number of mature eggs than females from nonirradiated  hosts. Longevity of P. humilis adults decreased with increased temperature from 15 to 35°C, regardless of food provisions, gender, and host irradiation dose. Females survived 37-49 d at 15°C with water and food, and only 1-2 d at 35°C without food, whereas males lived  shorter than females at all temperatures and food combinations tested. Adult P. humilis reared from fertile C. capitata and aspirated for dispensing in cups lived significantly longer after shipment than those specimens chilled and dispensed by weight. At 21 and 32°C, 50% of parasitoids  departed release cages after 180 and 30 min, respectively, but none departed at 12°C. Thirteen shipments of P. humilis (2,980-21,922 parasitoids per shipment) were received between September and December 2009, and seven shipments (7,502-22,560 parasitoids per shipment) were  received between October and December 2010 from San Miguel Petapa, Guatemala. Daily number of olive fruit fly adult and percentage female trap captures ranged <1-19 and 8-58% in 2009, and <1-11 and 0-42% in 2010, respectively. The number of parasitoids released  ranged 848-12,257 in 2009 and 3,675-11,154 in 2010. Percentage parasitism of olive fruit fly third instars at all locations ranged 0-9% in 2009 and 0-36% in 2010.
Intrinsic competition and competitor-free-space influence the coexistence of parasitoids (Hymenoptera: Braconidae: Opiinae) of Neotropical Tephritidae (Diptera).	Endoparasitoid larvae may eliminate heterospecific competitors by physical or physiological means. The outcomes of these intrinsic competitions are often predictable with one species typically eliminating the other. The opiine braconids Doryctobracon areolatus (Szepligeti) and Utetes anastrephae (Viereck) are among the most common native parasitoids of frugivorous Tephritidae in the Neotropics and subtropics. U. anastrephae is typically the victor in intrinsic interactions with D. areolatus, but the later has a longer ovipositor and may find a competitor-free-space in larger fruit whose hosts are beyond the reach of U. anastrephae. An Asian opiine species, Diachasmimorpha longicaudata (Ashmead) has been introduced throughout much of the Americas. Its ovipositor is longer than that of D. areolatus and if it is a superior intrinsic competitor it should be able to cause local extinctions of D. areolatus. The outcomes of sequential ovipositions by D. longicaudata and D. areolatus and U. anastrephae found that D. longicaudata significantly suppresses development of D. areolatus. However, competitions between D. longicaudata and U. anastrephae were more equal. The denial of competitor free space may account for the gradual replacement of D. areolatus by D. longicaudata in Florida where both species were introduced ~40 yr ago. Diachasmimorpha longicaudata and D. areolatus continue to coexist in Mexico and this could be because of greater abiotic and biotic environmental complexity that allows for separate niches. Establishment or augmentative releases of D. longicaudata could result in elimination of native parasitoids and this should be considered before its introduction.
Effect of constant temperatures on the biology, life table, and thermal requirements of Aganaspis pelleranoi (Hymenoptera: Figitidae), a parasitoid of Anastrepha fraterculus (Diptera: Tephritidae).	Aganaspis pelleranoi (Brèthes, 1924) (Hymenoptera: Figitidae) is a koinobiont endoparasitoid of larvae of species of the genus Anastrepha and of Ceratitis capitata. It is a candidate for use as a biological control agent, as under field conditions, it may reach a parasitism rate of 62%. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of different constant temperatures on biological parameters of A. pelleranoi when parasitizing the larva of Anastrepha fraterculus (Wiedemann, 1830) (Diptera: Tephritidae), as well as to determine its thermal requirements. The study was conducted in environmental chambers at 18, 20, 22, 25, 28, and 30 ± 1°C; 70 ± 10% relative humidity; and a 12-h photophase. Females maintained at 18 and 20°C produced more progeny than females at other temperatures tested. The longevity of males and females was inversely proportional to temperature, ranging from 49.1 to 3.73 d for females and from 32.1 to 3.8 d for males at temperatures of 18-30°C, respectively. The duration of the biological cycle (egg-to-adult) was influenced by temperature, and ranged from 69.1 d at 18°C to 30 d at 25°C. No preimaginal development of A. pelleranoi occurred at 28 and 30°C. The relationship between temperature and the demographic parameters of A. pelleranoi showed a linear effect over the temperature range of 18-25°C. The lower temperature threshold and thermal constant were 11.69°C and 391.70 degree days, respectively. 
