Purification and properties of a transglutaminase produced by a Bacillus circulans strain isolated from the Amazon environment.	A new microbial transglutaminase (EC 2.3.2.13) from a Bacillus circulans strain isolated from the aquatic Amazonian environment was purified and characterized. Enzyme purification started with (NH(4))(2)SO(4) 'salting out' and proceeded with liquid chromatography on Q-Sepharose FF and octyl-Sepharose 4 FF. The purification factor was approx. 150-fold with a yield of 32%. The enzyme's molecular mass was estimated as 45000 Da on SDS/PAGE. The purified transglutaminase had an optimum temperature of 47 degrees C, the optimum pH of the reaction was 7 and it presented no calcium-dependent activity.
Role of the kallikrein-kinin system in two-kidneyed and one-clipped hypertensive rats.	The influence of aprotinin as a kallidinogenase inactivator on the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI) was studied in two-kidneyed and one-clipped hypertensive rats. Sixteen two-kidneyed and one-clipped hypertensive rats and sham-operated normotensive rats were prepared for this experiment. They were divided into two groups: those with the aprotinin infusion and those without. The effects of the oral administration of CEI were compared as regards mean arterial pressure (MAP) and urinary kallikrein activity (UKA). In 8 hypertensive rats under glucose infusion, MAP fell from 184.4 +/- 4.5 to 106.3 +/- 5.2 mm Hg, and UKA changed from 1.37 +/- 0.18 nkat/12 h to 0.61 +/- 0.11 nkat/12 h after the administration of CEI. In the remaining hypertensive rats under aprotinin infusion, MAP decreased from 175.0 +/- 3.0 to 140.6 +/- 5.1 mm Hg, and UKA slightly changed from 0.72 +/- 0.25 nkat/12 h to 0.59 +/- 0.12 nkat/12 h. Thus, the decrease of MAP after the administration of CEI was suppressed by the aprotinin infusion, and this significant difference was supported by the decrease of UKA. As for 16 normotensive rats, CEI did not alter MAP, nor did aprotinin have any effect on it. However, UKA tended to decrease after the administration of CEI. These results suggest that both the kallikrein-kinin system and the renin-angiotensin system play an important role in the maintenance of high blood pressure in two-kidneyed and one-clipped chronically hypertensive rats.
Consequences of renal morphologic damage induced by inhibition of converting enzyme in rat renovascular hypertension.	The consequences of morphologic changes in the kidney distal to a stenosis induced by chronic administration of a converting enzyme inhibitor were determined after induction of experimental renovascular hypertension in rats. The relationship between changes in morphology in the clipped kidney and diuresis, creatinine, and mortality was studied by converting a two-kidney, one-clip model into a one-kidney, one-clip model after 1 month of converting enzyme inhibition. The right renal artery was constricted with a clip of 0.2 mm diameter to increase blood pressure, the left kidney was left untouched. After 1 month, systolic blood pressure had increased to 173 +/- 27 mm Hg in the clipped animals (n = 47) compared with 139 +/- 8 mm Hg in sham-operated animals (n = 15; group 1). An inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme, MK421 (2 mg/kg, po), or an equivalent volume of vehicle was then administered daily for 1 month. After treatment with the converting enzyme inhibitor, blood pressure (148 +/- 28 mm Hg) was virtually identical with that of a sham-operated, vehicle-treated control group (145 +/- 16 mm Hg, n = 15), and was significantly lower than that of untreated hypertensive rats (186 +/- 30 mm Hg, n = 17) (group 2). The weight of the left kidney was increased in the untreated hypertensive animals as compared with sham-operated controls (1260 +/- 168 mg for group 2 versus 1075 +/- 100 mg for group 1). After treatment with MK421, the weight of the contralateral kidney (1472 +/- 190 mg) was further increased. After 1 month of treatment with MK421 or vehicle, the unclipped left kidney was removed from all animals. The treated animals were then randomly divided into two groups: one in which treatment with MK421 was stopped (treated/untreated, n = 24; group 3) and a second in which the treatment was continued (treated/treated, n = 23; group 4). The ability of the rats to excrete a water load of 15 ml was then examined 12 hours after removal of the unclipped left kidney. In the two groups of treated rats, the urinary excretion of the water load was decreased and frequency of oliguria was increased as compared with controls and hypertensive untreated rats. Survival rates were affected by the treatment: 3 deaths occurred in the hypertensive untreated group 2, 10 in the treated/untreated group 3, and 12 in the treated/treated group 4. The majority of these deaths could be attributed to renal insufficiency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Drug-induced hyperkalemia.	This is the era of polypharmacy. Treatment with multiple therapeutic agents for multiple underlying medical conditions leads to greater vulnerability to such metabolic imbalances as hyperkalemia. The physician must know which underlying medical conditions and drugs predispose to abnormal intracellular-extracellular potassium balance and abnormal regulation of potassium excretion.
Adrenal responses to pharmacological interruption of the renin-angiotensin system in sodium-restricted normal man.	We assessed the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of aldosterone secretion in response to sodium restriction in 62 normal subjects. Both saralasin, an angiotensin II antagonist, and SQ 20881, a converting enzyme inhibitor, induced a dose-related decrease in plasma aldosterone levels when the renin-angiotensin system was activated by restriction of sodium intake. Two types of experiments were performed with saralasin. In the first set, a dose-response relationship was established 20 min after beginning infusions ranging from 0.03-1.0 microgram/kg/min. The optimal dose was 0.1 microgram/kg/min, with a reduction in aldosterone levels of -10.1 +/- 3.8 ng/dl (P less than 0.025). Higher doses induced smaller reductions in aldosterone levels. In the second set, a 3-h infusion was given. The results were qualitatively similar but the magnitude was greater (-15 +/- 4 ng/dl; P less than 0.01). The aldosterone response 20 min after administration of SQ 20881 paralleled the angiotensin II response, with the first significant decrement (-6.5 +/- 1.5 ng/dl; P less than 0.01) occurring at 0.1 mg/kg and maximum (-10 +/- 3 ng/dl) occurring at 0.3 mg/kg. Thus, both agents produced qualitatively similar changes in aldosterone secretion in sodium-restricted normal subjects. However, neither reduced sodium restricted aldosterone levels to that measured in sodium-loaded subjects because of the intrinsic limitation of each agent. Saralasin is a partial agonist. SQ 20881 induces an increase in plasma renin activity via interruption of the short feedback loop, which probably limits its action. Yet, these data do support the hypothesis that angiotensin mediates the adrenal's response to sodium restriction in normal man.
