A case of primary retroperitoneal tumor with combined histologic features of embryonal carcinoma and yolk sac tumor]	A case of a primary retroperitoneal tumor, combining two histologic features of embryonal carcinoma and a yolk sac tumor is reported. A 31-year-old male complained of severe abdominal pain and had a laparotomy following a diagnosis of acute panperitonitis. During the operation, a large retroperitoneal tumor attached to the abdominal aorta was found, accompanied with remarkable hemorrhage and necrosis. Histologically, the tumor showed immature large cells with a solid pattern, focally forming reticular, tubular and glomeruloid structures. PAS positive hyaline bodies, multinuclear giant cells and mitoses were noted in the tumor cells. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells in the reticular pattern were positive for alpha-fetoprotein. No abnormality was found in the testes on palpation and ultrasound sonographic examination.
Quantification of alpha-fetoprotein and beta-HCG in testis tumor patients.	Patients with testis tumor were investigated for serum and tissue levels of alpha-fetoprotein and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-HCG). The tissue immune peroxidase-antiperoxidase staining for the tumor marker was quantitated by computer-assisted immunohistophotometry and immuno-gamma ray histospectrometry. The results supported the general view that mostly polynuclear giant cells produce beta-HCG in 66% of nonseminoma cancer. This finding qualifies beta-HCG as relatively unspecific in the absence of chorioepithelial cells in the tumor. Discrepancies of tissue and serum beta-HCG values may be caused by deglycolysation of beta-HCG while penetrating the perivascular tissues. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) appears helpfully to discriminate the true seminoma cancer, which is constantly negative. Histologically pure seminoma which reacts for AFP therefore suggests sclerotic teratoma compartments. A constant finding is the significantly reduced synthesis rate of tumor markers in metastasis compared to primary tumor.
Characterisation of a retinoic-acid-binding component from F9 embryonal-carcinoma-cell nuclei.	When F9 murine-embryonal-carcinoma cells were incubated with all-trans-[3H]retinoic acid, approximately 10% of the tritium label taken up by the cells was recovered in the nuclei. Sonication or DNase I digestion followed by extraction with 0.6 M NaCl released 20-40% of the nuclear-associated retinoic acid. Analysis of these extracts showed that retinoic acid was bound to protein sedimenting at 4 S. This nuclear retinoic-acid-binding component bound all-trans- and 13-cis-retinoic acid with comparable affinity whereas retinol competed less efficiently for binding. These results suggest that F9 embryonal-carcinoma cells contain a nuclear binding protein for retinoic acid that is distinct from the cellular retinoic-acid-binding protein.
Demonstration of pituitary tissue with 6 cells immunoreactive to pituitary hormones in a sacrococcygeal teratoma.	A sacrococcygeal teratoma, containing mature-appearing anterior pituitary tissue, was first reported with the result of an immunohistochemical analysis for pituitary hormones. All kinds of adenohypophyseal endocrine cells were demonstrated in the anterior pituitary tissue in this teratoma. This study revealed that the anterior pituitary tissue being contained together with nerve tissues in a sacrococcygeal mature teratoma has the capacity to produce at least six anterior pituitary hormones.
Teratocarcinoma stem cells and early mouse embryos contain only a single major lamin polypeptide closely resembling lamin B.	The nuclear lamina in adult mammalian somatic cells is composed of three major proteins, lamins A, B, and C. The expression of these proteins during the differentiation of teratocarcinomas and mouse embryogenesis is described. Embryos up to day 8 of gestation and embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells express only a single lamin species closely resembling, if not identical to, lamin B. Lamins A and/or C were detected in fertilized eggs, but disappear during the first 2-4 cleavage divisions, only reappearing in 8 day post-implantation embryos. These two lamins are absent from EC cells, but are strongly expressed in some of their derivatives. These results show that cells of the early mouse embryo do not have a functional requirement for lamins A and C and imply that the structural organization of the nucleus may change fundamentally during embryogenesis.
S-100 protein immunostaining in teratomatous well-differentiated tissues.	The presence and distribution of S-100 protein were studied in a case of ovarian teratoma using avidin-biotin complex immunoperoxidase method. S-100 immunoreactivity within the well-differentiated teratomatous tissues appeared to mirror that of their normally developed human counterparts, although we could unexpectedly detect S-100 immunoreactivity in bone osteoblasts and osteocytes, and in tooth germ odontoblasts. Choroid plexus-like formations present in the teratoma were also positive. Our results suggest that the presence of S-100 protein might be associated with a basic cell function regardless of the presence of a physiologically end-developed human organism.
Evidence of hybrid cell of thyroid follicular cell and carcinoid cell in strumal carcinoid.	A strumal carcinoid associated with mature cystic teratoma of the ovary in a 59-year-old was investigated immunohistochemically and electron microscopically. Histologically it was composed largely of trabecular and partly of insular carcinoid and individual thyroid follicles. Intensive argyrophilia was shown in both the cells of carcinoid tumor and follicular structure. Thyroglobulin was strongly positive in the follicular lining epithelium and weakly positive in the carcinoid cells adjacent to the follicular area. Immunoreactive cells for somatostatin and prostatic acid phosphatase were strongly detected in the carcinoid area and gradually blended to the follicular epithelium. Methionine-enkephalin, glicentin, and pancreatic polypeptide were focally detected in the carcinoid area. Whereas calcitonin-positive cells were sparsely observed in the follicular area, carcinoembryonic antigen and serotonin were absolutely negative. Electron microscopic findings revealed abundant neurosecretory granules, microfilaments, and colloid-like droplets in the same cells. We suggest that these hybrid cells are the origin of strumal carcinoid.
Germ cell tumours of the testis.	The application of new techniques, particularly the identification of tumour markers, in the study of testicular germ cell tumours is presently leading to a reassessment of opinions regarding the origin and classification of these neoplasms. Some aspects of this controversy are examined.
Estrogen and progesterone receptors in malignant ovarian neoplasms]	Estrogen receptors (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR) were evaluated in 173 primary ovarian cancers and in 6 ovarian metastases. In epithelial ovarian carcinomas 63% had ER and 46% PR. Almost all granulosa cell tumours were receptor-positive, while sarcomas, dysgerminomas, and teratomas lacked ER and PR. Both receptors were found less often in tumours of the histological grade I than in those of grade II and III. During the development of metastases and during chemotherapy there was a loss of PR in 27% and 53% of the cases, respectively, while the amount of ER remained more or less constant. In addition to ovarian cancers ER and PR were present in carcinomas of the fallopian tube as well. ER-negative and especially PR-negative tumours seemed to respond better to chemotherapy than receptor-positive carcinomas. The possible significance of ER and PR with regard to the success of an endocrine treatment is discussed.
Case of teratoma with intraventricular free fat]	Intracranial fat-containing congenital tumors are characterized by negative absorption values on computed tomography (CT). We are reporting a case of teratoma with intraventricular free fat diagnosed preoperatively by CT. The case is a 19-year-old female who was admitted to our hospital because of continuous severe headache, nausea and vomiting. At the time of admission, her physical and neurological examination was negative except for bilateral papilledema. CT demonstrated marked enlargement of the right lateral ventricle. In addition, there was negative absorption value (-90 H.U.), suggesting free fat, within right frontal horn layering above the CSF with a fluid level. metrizamide ventriculography demonstrated complete obstruction and revealed an irregular shadow defect at the right foramen of Monro. At surgery, yellowish cheese-like material, white hair was found on the surface of the CSF. Tumor arose from the floor of the right foramen of Monro and extended upward. The patient made an uneventful recovery and was discharged 17 days after surgery. Intraventricular free fat is likely that to be released from the teratoma cyst ruptured spontaneously when the patient complained of severe headache 40 days prior to admission. There have been several published reports of the CT appearances of intracranial fat-containing tumors, however, teratoma with intraventricular free fat is very rare. It was concluded that fat-containing tumors should be highly suspected, when negative absorption values were found on CT.
Synthesis of alpha-fetoprotein and some other serum proteins in testicular tumors.	Serum levels of alpha-fetoprotein were determined in 33 patients with testicular germ cell tumors and were normal in 11 patients with seminoma and in one patient with matured teratoma; high levels were observed in 19 of 21 patients with embryonal carcinoma, teratocarcinoma, or a mixed type of these germ cell tumors. Tissues from the testicular germ cell tumors were cultivated with 14C-labeled leucine. After incubation, the culture media were subjected to immunoelectrophoretic and autoradiographic analyses. The results were: (i) Radioactive alpha-fetoprotein, albumin, transferrin, and alpha1-globulin appeared in the culture media of embryonal carcinomas obtained from two infants. (ii) Radioactive albumin and alpha1-globulin appeared in the culture media of a mixed type tumor metastasized from testis to retroperitoneal region. (iii) No such radioactive proteins appeared in the culture media of primary seminomas.
The expression of human chorionic gonadotropin in the female genital tract: localization by the immunoperoxidase technique.	Four hundred eighty-eight lesions from 456 patients were surveyed for the production of hCG using the immunoperoxidase technique. HCG immunoreactivity was found in 9.1% of the total number of cases studied. The 10% of ovarian cancers expressing hCG included serous, endometrioid, and germ cell tumors. Eighteen point nine percent of neoplastic cervices were positive for hCG; the highest rate of expression was in invasive cancers. Eighteen point nine percent of endometrial cancers were hCG positive; poorly differentiated tumors had the highest percent of marker expression. The significance of "ectopic" hCG expression in nontrophoblastic gynecologic neoplasms is discussed.
Identification of mRNA species that code for extra-embryonic endodermal cytoskeletal proteins in differentiated derivatives of murine embryonal carcinoma cells.	The messenger RNA species that code for two extra-embryonic endodermal cytoskeletal proteins (Endo A and Endo B) have been identified. Endo A and Endo B messenger RNA species are differentially expressed. They are absent, or at basal levels, in undifferentiated embryonal carcinoma cells (F9.22 cell line) and relatively abundant in parietal endoderm (PFHR9 cell line) or in embryonal carcinoma cells that have been induced, by retinoid acid, to differentiate to parietal endoderm. Endo A and Endo B messenger RNA can be detected in F9.22 cells 48 to 72 h after exposure to retinoic acid, which is coincident with the expression of Endo A and Endo B proteins. The size of Endo A and Endo B messenger RNA has been determined by denaturing methyl mercury hydroxide agarose gels to be 2.0 +/- 0.1 and 1.5 +/- 0.2 kilobases, respectively.
A comparison of surface proteins in embryonal carcinoma cells and their differentiated derivatives.	Surface proteins from five cell lines (three embryonal carcinoma cell lines (F9, PCC4 and PCC3), teratocarcinoma-derived endodermal cells (PYS) and fibroblasts (line 3/A/1-D-3 differentiated from PCC3) were compared by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis after selective iodination with 125I in the presence of lactoperoxidase. The labeled proteins were solubilized either in Nonidet P40/urea/ampholyte/mercaptoethanol solution or in Nonidet P40 only. In total, about thirty major 125I-labeled surface proteins were identified by their isoelectric point and molecular weight. 14 proteins are present in all five cell types, although their quantity or accessibility for labeling differs between differentiated and undifferentiated cells. Three proteins (200, 160 and 150 kilodaltons) are present in undifferentiated cells only. Two of them (160 and 150 kilodaltons) were solubilized by Nonidet P40/urea/ampholyte/mercaptoethanol, but not by Nonidet P40. One protein (50 kilodaltons) was found in nullipotent F9 cells only. About 14--15 proteins (including fibronectin) were released by Nonidet P40/urea/ampholyte/mercaptoethanol but not by Nonidet P40. They are presumably bound to submembrane or cytoskeleton structures by non-covalent bonds.
