Teratocarcinoma of the ethmoid sinus: review of literature plus a new case report.	We report a third case of an unusual maligant neoplasm of the paranasal sinuses in a 60-year-old woman. Similar cases have been previously reported and called malignant teratoma. In consultation with Ackerman (written communication, February 1976) we propose the term "teratocarcinoma" and believe this is to be a more descriptive term and less likely to be confused with the generic term "teratoma," which is a benign tumor.
Comparative characteristics of three human embryonic stem cell lines.	Human embryonic stem (hES) cells have unique features including unlimited growth capacity, expression of specific markers, normal karyotypes and an ability to differentiate. Many investigators have tried to use hES cells for cell-based therapy, but there is little information about the properties of available hES cell lines. We compared the characteristics of three hES cell lines. The expression of SSEA-1, -3, -4, and APase, was examined by immunocytochemistry, and Oct-4 expression was analyzed by RT-PCR. Differentiation of the hES cells in vitro and in vivo led to the formation of embryoid bodies (EBs) or teratomas. We examined the expression of tissue-specific markers in the differentiated cells by semiquantitative RT-PCR, and the ability of each hES cell line to proliferate was measured by flow cytometry of DNA content and ELISA. The three hES cell lines were similar in morphology, marker expression, and teratoma formation. However there were significant differences (P < 0.05) between the differentiated cells formed by the different cell lines in levels of expression of tissue-specific markers such as renin, kallikrein, Glut-2, beta- and delta-globin, albumin, and alpha1-antitrypsin (alpha1-AT). The hES cell lines also differed in proliferative activity. Our observations should be useful in basic and clinical hES cell research.
Teratoma formation leads to failure of treatment for type I diabetes using embryonic stem cell-derived insulin-producing cells.	Embryonic stem (ES) cells have been proposed to be a powerful tool in the study of pancreatic disease, as well as a potential source for cell replacement therapy in the treatment of diabetes. However, data demonstrating the feasibility of using pancreatic islet-like cells differentiated from ES cells remain controversial. In this study we characterized ES cell-derived insulin-expressing cells and assessed their suitability for the treatment of type I diabetes. ES cell-derived insulin-stained cell clusters expressed insulin mRNA and transcription factors associated with pancreatic development. The majority of insulin-positive cells in the clusters also showed immunoreactivity for C-peptide. Insulin was stored in the cytoplasm and released into the culture medium in a glucose-dependent manner. When the cultured cells were transplanted into diabetic mice, they reversed the hyperglycemic state for approximately 3 weeks, but the rescue failed due to immature teratoma formation. Our studies demonstrate that reversal of hyperglycemia by transplantation of ES cell-derived insulin-producing cells is possible. However, the risk of teratoma formation would need to be eliminated before ES cell-based therapies for the treatment of diabetes are considered.
Transplantation of embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes improves cardiac function in infarcted rat hearts.	Post-infarct congestive heart failure is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in industrialized countries. The main purpose of this study was to investigate whether transplantation of embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (ESCM) directly into the infarcted myocardium could improve cardiac function in rats.
Teratoma formation by human embryonic stem cells is site dependent and enhanced by the presence of Matrigel.	When implanted into immunodeficient mice, human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) give rise to teratoma, tumor-like formations containing tissues belonging to all three germ layers. The ability to form teratoma is a sine qua non characteristic of pluripotent stem cells. However, limited data are available regarding the effects of implantation site and the methods employed for implantation on the success rate of teratoma formation. In this study, the rate of teratoma formation in immunodeficient mice was site dependent: subcutaneous (25-100%), intratesticular (60%), intramuscular (12.5%), and under the kidney capsule (100%). Co-injecting the hESCs with Matrigel increased subcutaneous teratoma formation efficiency from 25-40% to 80-100%. We did not observe site-specific differences in the teratoma composition at the histological level. However, subcutaneous teratomas were quite distinct, easy to remove, and caused minimal discomfort to the mice. Also, subcutaneous teratomas displayed larger proportion of solid tissues as opposed to cyst formation that dominated the teratomas formed at the other sites. Interestingly, a chromosomally abnormal hESCs with trisomy 20 formed teratomas where the ratio of differentiated to undifferentiated tissues was significantly decreased suggesting defective pluripotency of the cells. In conclusion, subcutaneous implantation of hESCs in presence of Matrigel appears to be the most efficient, reproducible, and the easiest approach for teratoma formation by hESCs. Also, teratoma formation can be employed to study the development defects exhibited by the chromosomally abnormal hESC lines.
Teratoma formation by human embryonic stem cells: evaluation of essential parameters for future safety studies.	Transplantation of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) into immune-deficient mice leads to the formation of differentiated tumors comprising all three germ layers, resembling spontaneous human teratomas. Teratoma assays are considered the gold standard for demonstrating differentiation potential of pluripotent hESC and hold promise as a standard for assessing safety among hESC-derived cell populations intended for therapeutic applications. We tested the potency of teratoma formation in seven anatomical transplantation locations (kidney capsule, muscle, subcutaneous space, peritoneal cavity, testis, liver, epididymal fat pad) in SCID mice with and without addition of Matrigel, and found that intramuscular teratoma formation was the most experimentally convenient, reproducible, and quantifiable. In the same experimental setting, we compared undifferentiated hESC and differentiated populations enriched for either beating cardiomyocytes or definitive endoderm derivatives (insulin-secreting beta cells), and showed that all cell preparations rapidly formed teratomas with varying percentages of mesoderm, ectoderm, and endoderm. In limiting dilution experiments, we found that as little as two hESC colonies spiked into feeder fibroblasts produced a teratoma, while a more rigorous single-cell titration achieved a detection limit of 1/4000. In summary, we established core parameters essential for facilitating safety profiling of hESC-derived products for future therapeutic applications.
In vivo bone formation by progeny of human embryonic stem cells.	The derivation of osteogenic cells from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) or from induced pluripotent stem cells for bone regeneration would be a welcome alternative to the use of adult stem cells. In an attempt to promote hESC osteogenic differentiation, cells of the HSF-6 line were cultured in differentiating conditions in vitro for prolonged periods of time ranging from 7 to 14.5 weeks, followed by in vivo transplantation into immunocompromised mice in conjunction with hydroxyapatite/tricalcium phosphate ceramic powder. Twelve different medium compositions were tested, along with a number of other variables in culture parameters. In differentiating conditions, HSF-6-derived cells demonstrated an array of diverse phenotypes reminiscent of multiple tissues, but after a few passages, acquired a more uniform, fibroblast-like morphology. Eight to 16 weeks post-transplantation, a group of transplants revealed the formation of histologically proven bone of human origin, including broad areas of multiple intertwining trabeculae, which represents by far the most extensive in vivo bone formation by the hESC-derived cells described to date. Knockout-Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-based media with fetal bovine serum, dexamethasone, and ascorbate promoted more frequent bone formation, while media based on α-modified minimum essential medium promoted teratoma formation in 12- to 20-week-old transplants. Transcription levels of pluripotency-related (octamer binding protein 4, Nanog), osteogenesis-related (collagen type I, Runx2, alkaline phosphatase, and bone sialoprotein), and chondrogenesis-related (collagen types II and X, and aggrecan) genes were not predictive of either bone or teratoma formation. The most extensive bone was formed by the strains that, following 4 passages in monolayer conditions, were cultured for 23 to 25 extra days on the surface of hydroxyapatite/tricalcium phosphate particles, suggesting that coculturing of hESC-derived cells with osteoconductive material may increase their osteogenic potential. While none of the conditions tested in this study, and elsewhere, ensured consistent bone formation by hESC-derived cells, our results may elucidate further directions toward the construction of bone on the basis of hESCs or an individual's own induced pluripotent stem cells.
Teratoma of the placenta, a case report.	A mature solid teratoma of the placenta is presented. Like the other six, previously reported, cases it was located on the placental surface, between amnion and chorion. The nature of the tumor as well as its differential feature with fetus acardius amorphus are discussed.
Hormonal factors and risk of ovarian germ cell cancer in young women.	No previous controlled studies of ovarian germ cell tumours have been reported; however the tumour is similar to germ cell testicular cancer in terms of histology, age-specific incidence rates (i.e. highest rates in young adulthood), and secular trends of increasing incidence. The investigation was designed to determine if maternal hormonal factors which have been found to increase the risk of testis cancer in male offspring are also risk factors for the ovarian tumour. The analysis is based on 73 cases diagnosed before age 35 and 138 age-race matched controls. The cases were identified by tumour registries in Los Angeles (1972-84) and Seattle (1974-84) and controls were selected from friends and/or neighbourhood residents. Interviews were conducted on the telephone with mothers of cases and controls. The primary finding was that mother's use of exogenous hormones (including the hormonal pregnancy test, DES or other supportive hormones, and inadvertant use of oral contraceptives after conception) increased risk (Odds ratio, OR = 3.60, 95% CL = 1.2-13.1). Other maternal factors associated with elevated risk were high pre-pregnancy body mass (OR = 2.7, 95% CL = 1.0-7.6), more rapid achievement of regular menstruation after menarche (OR = 1.8, 95% CL = 0.9-3.8), and age at index pregnancy under 20 (OR = 2.8, 95% CL = 1.0-10.7). In conclusion, these results support findings from testis cancer studies regarding a hormonal aetiology for germ cell tumours, and a mechanism by which oestrogen may affect the germ cells is proposed.
Malignant degeneration in cryptorchid testes. A report of two cases.	In two patients with cryptorchism orchidectomy was performed because of testicular atrophy and torsion respectively. From the macroscopic appearance malignancy was not expected in either of the cases, but histological examination showed invasive carcinoma. This indicates that biopsies should be taken whenever operations are performed on cryptorchid testes, and it may be of importance to biopt all cryptorchid testes at a certain age.
