3H]dofetilide binding to HERG transfected membranes: a potential high throughput preclinical screen	The pharmacological characteristics of [3H]dofetilide binding were examined in membranes prepared from human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells stably expressing human ether-รก-go-go related gene (HERG) K+ channels. The classIII antiarrhythmic compounds dofetilide, clofilium, 4'-[[1-[2-(6-methyl-2-pyridyl)ethyl]-4-piperidyl]carbonyl]methanesulfonanilide (E-4031), N-methyl-N-[2-[methyl-(1-methyl-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl)amino]ethyl]-4-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]benzene-sulfonamide (WAY-123,398) and d-sotalol all inhibited [3H]dofetilide binding. In addition, the structurally unrelated compounds pimozide, terfenadine and haloperidol, all of which prolong the QT interval in man, also inhibited binding. These data indicate that a [3H]dofetilide binding assay using HERG membranes may help identify compounds that prolong the QT interval.
Dissociable effects of histamine H1 antagonists on reaction-time performance in rats.	The most pronounced side effect of antiallergic histaminergic drugs (H1 antagonists) is sedation. These effects have been linked with the effects of histaminergic drugs on central H1 receptors. In the present study, we investigated the dose-response relationship of different antihistamines on the performance in a reaction-time task that has been developed for rats. The dose-response relationship of diphenhydramine, cetirizine and terfenadine were examined for the various behavioural measures in this task (i.e., reaction time, motor time, premature responses and number of trials completed). In addition, the effects of scopolamine were assessed to evaluate the cholinergic profile in this task. Diphenhydramine did not reliably affect the reaction time, but increased the motor time and the proportion of premature responses, and decreased the number of trials completed in a session. A low dose of cetirizine decreased the reaction time, whereas an increase in reaction time was found for the high dose. The motor time was increased after both doses of cetirizine. Terfenadine did not affect the responding of rats in the reaction-time task at the doses tested. The effects of scopolamine were very similar to those of diphenhydramine. The reaction-time task used in this study was able to dissociate different types of antihistamines on aspects of psychomotor function, which were likely to be related to central muscarinic or H1 antagonism. These findings suggest that the reaction-time task may be a sensitive tool for assessing effects of drugs on psychomotor function.
Inhibition of depolarization-induced [3H]noradrenaline release from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells by some second-generation H(1) receptor antagonists through blockade of store-operated Ca(2+) channels (SOCs).	In the present study, the effect of the blockade of membrane calcium channels activated by intracellular Ca(2+) store depletion on basal and depolarization-induced [3H]norepinephrine ([3H]NE) release from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells was examined. The second-generation H(1) receptor blockers astemizole, terfenadine, and loratadine, as well as the first-generation compound hydroxyzine, inhibited [3H]NE release induced by high extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](e)) depolarization in a concentration-dependent manner (the IC(50)s were 2.3, 1.7, 4.8, and 9.4 microM, respectively). In contrast, the more hydrophilic second-generation H(1) receptor blocker cetirizine was completely ineffective (0.1-30 microM). The inhibition of high [K(+)](e)-induced [3H]NE release by H(1) receptor blockers seems to be related to their ability to inhibit Ca(2+) channels activated by Ca(i)(2+) store depletion (SOCs). In fact, astemizole, terfenadine, loratadine, and hydroxyzine, but not cetirizine, displayed a dose-dependent inhibitory action on the increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) obtained with extracellular Ca(2+) reintroduction after Ca(i)(2+) store depletion with thapsigargin (1 microM), an inhibitor of the sarcoplasmic-endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) pump. The rank order of potency for SOC inhibition by these compounds closely correlated with their inhibitory properties on depolarization-induced [3H]NE release from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Nimodipine (1 microM) plus omega-conotoxin (100 nM) did not interfere with the present model for SOC activation. In addition, the inhibition of depolarization-induced [3H]NE release does not seem to be attributable to the blockade of the K(+) currents carried by the K(+) channels encoded by the human Ether-a-Gogo Related Gene (I(HERG)) by these antihistamines. In fact, whole-cell voltage-clamp experiments revealed that the IC(50) for astemizole-induced hERG blockade is about 300-fold lower than that for the inhibition of high K(+)-induced [3H]NE release. Furthermore, current-clamp experiments in SH-SY5Y cells showed that concentrations of astemizole (3 microM) which were effective in preventing depolarization-induced [3H]NE release were unable to interfere with the cell membrane potential under depolarizing conditions (100 mM [K(+)](e)), suggesting that hERG K(+) channels do not contribute to membrane potential control during exposure to elevated [K(+)](e). Collectively, the results of the present study suggest that, in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, the inhibition of SOCs by some second-generation antihistamines can prevent depolarization-induced neurotransmitter release.
H1-receptor blocker antihistamine, terfenadine durably influences the glucocorticoid receptor, and lymphocyte histamine content of weanling rats.	Hormonal imprinting takes place perinatally when a hormone and its maturing target receptor meet. As a consequence of imprinting the receptor accomplishes its maturation reaching the binding capacity characteristic to the adult age. In this critical period the presence of foreign molecules which are able to bind to the receptor can cause faulty imprinting with life-long consequences. In the recent years it was cleared that not only receptors are influenced by faulty imprinting, however, also the hormone production of the given cell. In addition imprinting was provoked at non-perinatal periods (adolescence and adult age) in cytogenic organs. In the present experiment the prolonged effect of a non-perinatal imprinting by an antihistamine to the histamine content of white blood cells and glucocorticoid receptors of liver and thymus was studied. Two weeks after 3-day terfenadine treatment at weaning, flow cytometry of peritoneal cells and blood lymphocytes for histamine, and receptor kinetic analysis of dexamethasone binding were done. Histamine content of blood lymphocytes and glucocorticoid receptor density of liver cells were significantly decreased. This means that a short treatment with a H(1)-receptor blocker antihistamine durably influences physiological indexes which were not known till now. This means that not only the acute effects, but the prolonged side-effects must be considered.
Pharmacological characterization of a chronic pruritus model induced by multiple application of 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene in NC mice.	Female NC/Jic mice were sensitized and challenged repeatedly at 48 h intervals for 10 and 30 days by painting 1% 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB) on both ears. Mice challenged with TNCB for 30 days developed an inflammatory dermatitis with high immunoglobulin E (IgE) titer. Histological analysis with acidic Toluidine Blue staining revealed that dermal mast cells markedly differentiated and intensely degranulated, consistent with a dramatic increase in scratching behavior. A significant increase in total scratching events could be observed in mice treated with TNCB for a short period of 10 days. Extending the term of TNCB application to 30 days, the IgE titer and number of mast cells elevated significantly, and thus various drugs were evaluated pharmacologically by using the mice treated with TNCB for 30 days. Terfenadine and cyproheptadine attenuated the chronic scratching behavior. Tacrolimus and dexamethasone were less effective and cromolyn showed no effect. In addition, terfenadine and tacrolimus suppressed the degranulation of mast cells. The present chronic scratching model could be suitable to evaluate drugs effective for suppression of mast cell differentiation and degranulation by irritation, and may represent a promising tool to develop new drugs for inflammatory pruritus associated with, for example, atopic dermatitis.
In vitro model for assessing arrhythmogenic properties of drugs based on high-resolution impedance measurements.	Cardiac dysfunction is one of the main cause of drug candidate failures in the preclinical and/or clinical studies and responsible for the retraction of large number of drugs from the market. The prediction of arrhythmic risk based on preclinical trials during drug development remains limited despite intensive and costly investigation. Moreover, methods for analyzing beating behavior of cardiomyocytes (CMs) in culture to diagnose arrhythmias are not well developed.
Allosteric effects of erythromycin pretreatment on thioridazine block of hERG potassium channels.	The prevalence of concurrent use of two or more drugs that block human ether-a-go-go-related gene product (hERG) K(+) channels is not uncommon, but is not well characterized. This study defined the effects of concurrent exposure of two hERG-blocking drugs on hERG current amplitude. Experiments were conducted to determine if concomitant exposure to two potent pore hERG blockers, thioridazine and terfenadine and a weak hERG blocker, erythromycin, would result in an additive, synergistic or inhibitory effect.
The mastomys gastric carcinoid: aspects of enterochromaffin-like cell function.	The mastomys rodent exhibits a genetic propensity to develop gastric carcinoid tumors. Utilizing acid inhibitory pharmacotherapy (histamine-2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors), we have demonstrated transformation from normal to neoplastic enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells in a well-defined fashion over a period of 4 months. In addition, we have demonstrated inhibition of tumor growth with either somatostatin or histamine-1 receptor antagonists (terfenadine and cyproheptadine). In order to define the regulation of growth and secretion of transformed ECL cells, we developed an isolated pure ECL cell system. ECL cells secrete histamine in response to gastrinergic (gastrin), muscarinic (carbachol), and beta-adrenergic (isoproterenol) stimulation. Both cAMP and intracellular calcium-dependent mechanisms are involved in the process of histamine secretion.
Pharmacologic heterogeneity of human lung and colon cells: effect of terfenadine and cetirizine.	H1-blockers may have antiallergic properties which cause the blocking of eicosanoid release, and the effect of these drugs may differ according to the phenotype of mast cells. This study examined the ability of terfenadine and cetirizine to inhibit the release of arachidonic acid-derived mediators from human lung and colon cells. Dispersed cells were challenged with anti-IgE in the presence or absence of 10 microM of terfenadine or cetirizine, and the release of prostaglandin (PG)D2 and leukotriene (LT)C4/D4 was assessed by enzyme immunoassay (EIA). Terfenadine caused significant inhibition of both PGD2 and LTC4/D4 (49 +/- 9 and 29 +/- 19%, respectively) from human lung cells but had a less marked effect on PGD2 release from human colon cells (21 +/- 9% for PGD2 and 18 +/- 9% for LTC4/D4). In contrast, although cetirizine caused significant inhibition of both mediators measured in lung cells (38 +/- 16% for PGD2 and 34 +/- 19% for LTC4), it did not cause any significant inhibition of either mediator from human colon cells. These findings suggest that H1-antagonists may have additional properties, and the differential effects of cetirizine on lung and colon tissue may indicate differences in mast cell phenotype.
Effects of loratadine on cytosolic Ca2+ levels and leukotriene release: novel mechanisms of action independent of the anti-histamine activity.	Loratadine, a non-sedating anti-histamine drug, displays in vitro potential anti-allergic properties not related to its interaction with the histamine H1 receptor. In a search for the mechanisms of these actions, we have found that loratadine induces an elevation of cytosolic calcium ion, [Ca2+]i, in rat peritoneal macrophages or human platelets. The mechanism of this elevation resides in the ability of loratadine to discharge intracellular Ca2+ stores, similarly to thapsigargin. This in turn brings about the inhibition of [Ca2+]i rise induced by physiological activators (platelet activating factor and ADP), as well as by thapsigargin. One of the active metabolites of loratadine, descarbo-ethoxy-loratadine, and another anti-histamine, namely terfenadine, exhibit the same effects. In addition, loratadine partially inhibits antigen-induced leukotriene release from human bronchi, but is unable to inhibit the concomitant contraction. We conclude that loratadine can interfere with the mechanisms controlling Ca2+ release, thus inhibiting the cell activation elicited by various agonists through [Ca2+]i elevation. This might be the mechanism underlying its anti-allergic actions in vitro. Furthermore, loratadine might represent an interesting tool in the study of Ca2+ homeostasis.
Effect of terfenadine on urination.	Anticholinergic side effects of commonly used antihistamines are known to aggravate voiding difficulties in older men with benign prostatic hypertrophy. Newer antihistamines, such as terfenadine (Seldane), with less anticholinergic side effects may not have such an effect on voiding. We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in eight normal male volunteers (phase I) and in 11 patients with documented benign prostatic hypertrophy (phase II) to study the effect of terfenadine on voiding. Subjects received either 60 mg of terfenadine or an identical placebo twice daily for 1 week each. After a 1-week washout period, they were crossed over to receive the other drug. Evaluation took place on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Prick skin testing was performed with serial threefold dilutions of histamine to assess efficacy and degree of compliance. Uroflowmetry and urinary symptom assessment were also done. In phase I, after 1 week of terfenadine, mean skin test suppression was 83.8% compared with -0.5% with placebo (P < .01). Urinary peak flow increased 10.4% on terfenadine and 9.7% on placebo (P = NS). In phase II, the mean prick skin test suppression was 87.8% compared with 12.0% for placebo (P < .002). Urinary peak flow was decreased 0.1% from baseline on terfenadine and increased by 18.7% for placebo (P = NS). None of the subjects noted alterations in voiding symptom scores. We conclude that the commonly recommended dose of terfenadine does not significantly alter voiding characteristics in normal men or in patients with documented benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Effects of antihistamines on joint stiffness and bone healing after periarticular fracture.	In an effort to blunt the inflammatory response following injury, we studied the effects of antihistamines on joint stiffness and bone healing after periarticular fracture. The hind limbs of 37 New Zealand white rabbits were instrumented with intramedullary Steinmann pins to allow immobilization after creating a distal tibia fracture. After periarticular ankle fracture, the rabbits were divided into groups to receive chlorpheniramine, low-dose terfenadine, high-dose terfenadine, or no antihistamine. Antihistamine was administered for the first 5 days after fracture. At 3 weeks after fracture, the rabbits treated with antihistamines showed a significant reduction in joint stiffness compared to control animals. To determine if antihistamine also retarded bone healing, an additional 12 New Zealand white rabbits underwent bilateral drilling of the midshaft of the femur with a 2.5 mm Steinmann pin. Six animals received oral terfenadine, and six served as controls. After 5 weeks of cage activity, the animals treated with the antihistamine showed a significant decrease in energy to failure of the femurs on torsional testing. Qualitative microscopic examination revealed less mature callus at the site of the femoral cortical defect in those animals treated with the terfenadine. Antihistamine may have heretofore unconsidered benefits in preventing post-traumatic joint stiffness but may slow healing of associated bony injuries.
Blockage by terfenadine of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive K+ current in rabbit ventricular myocytes.	We examined the blocking effects of terfenadine, an antihistaminic agent, on the ATP-sensitive K+ current (IK,ATP) in rabbit ventricular cells. IK,ATP was induced by cromakalim or NaCN. Terfenadine blocked the IK,ATP with an IC50 of 1.7 microM at -10 mV. This blockage was voltage dependent; depolarization induced a stronger blockage. According to the transmembrane electrical field model, terfenadine interacts with the site located 15 to 18% from the cytoplasmic membrane surface. In line with the assumption that the binding site is near the cytoplasmic surface, terfenadine applied to the cytoplasmic solution potently inhibited the single-channel activity for IK,ATP in the inside-out configuration (IC50 0.19 microM). In contrast, terfenadine applied to the external solution did not affect the channel activity in the cell-attached configuration, but inhibited it when applied into the pipette. The inhibition of the single channels by terfenadine was accompanied by flickering of the channels. These findings suggest that 1) terfenadine blocks the ATP-sensitive K+ channel in the open state, 2) the binding site is near the internal membrane surface and 3) terfenadine is poorly diffusible into the lipid biomembrane and accesses the binding site via the hydrophilic pathway. Terfenadine also inhibited the transient outward K+ current, inward rectifier K+ current and E4031-sensitive rectifier K+ current. However, the inhibition of these repolarization currents by terfenadine at 1 microM was not sufficient to prolong the action potential duration significantly. Whereas, terfenadine (1 microM) prolonged the action potential duration which had been shortened by cromakalim. Terfenadine may modify the ischemia-induced arrhythmias by blocking IK,ATP.
