Teriparatide (biosynthetic human parathyroid hormone 1-34): a new paradigm in the treatment of osteoporosis.	The ideal treatment of osteoporosis should preferably prevent fractures through normalization of bone mass and bone micro-architecture. Biosynthetic human parathyroid hormone 1-34 (teriparatide) was recently approved in the EU and the USA as the first anabolic treatment of osteoporosis. The effects of teriparatide are mediated by the G-protein-dependent, parathyroid hormone receptor-1 in the cell membrane. The binding of the ligand to the receptor activates adenylate cyclase and a number of phospholipases (A, C, and D) and increases intracellular levels of cAMP and calcium. Intermittent teriparatide increases the number of osteoblasts and bone formation by activation of pre-existing osteoblasts, increased differentiation of lining cells, and reduced osteoblast apoptosis. Anabolic effects of teriparatide on bone have been demonstrated in several species. It increases bone mass, structural integrity, bone diameter, and bone strength. Clinical efficacy was demonstrated in a randomized study comprising 1637 post-menopausal women with osteoporosis showing a 65% and 35% reduction of the relative risk of vertebral and appendicular fractures, respectively, during 18 months of treatment. Moreover, bone mineral density in the lumbar spine and hip increased by 9.7% and 2.6%, respectively. Similar effects on bone mineral density have been reported in men with osteoporosis and in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, however, fracture data are limited in these groups. Direct comparison with alendronate revealed that teriparatide has a more pronounced effect on bone mineral density. Teriparatide should be used in combination with calcium plus vitamin D, and may be combined with hormonal replacement therapy. In contrast, alendronate attenuates the effect of teriparatide. The efficacy of other combinations remains uncertain. After termination of teriparatide, bone mineral density of the lumbar spine is reduced by approximately 2-3% after 2 1/2 years. This decrease is prevented by treatment with bisphosphonates. The most frequent adverse effects with teriparatide are nausea, headache, dizziness, and leg cramps, however, only the latter two differed significantly between the groups receiving teriparatide 20 microg/day and placebo. In the pivotal clinical study, reduced dosage or termination of therapy due to hypercalcaemia was necessary in 3% and 0.2%, respectively. In a rat toxicology study, in which teriparatide was administered in high dosages for an extended period of time, osteosarcoma was seen in a significant number of animals. However, none of the approximately 2800 patients in clinical trials has developed osteosarcoma. Teriparatide constitutes a break-through in the treatment of severe osteoporosis, although a number of issues about the optimal use of teriparatide remains unsettled. The published data provide proof of concept on anabolic therapy which changes several paradigms of bone physiology. Other parathyroid hormone analogues are being investigated in clinical trials and the development of non-peptide, small molecules targeted at the parathyroid hormone receptor may be envisaged.
Teriparatide for postmenopausal osteoporosis.	Teriparatide (Forsteo - Eli Lilly) is the first parathyroid hormone derivative to be licensed for the treatment of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. It is described as a "bone-formation agent", in contrast to established treatments, such as bisphosphonates, raloxifene, calcitriol and calcitonin, which reduce bone resorption. Here we consider whether teriparatide offers any worthwhile advantages over these other options.
Pharmacological management of severe postmenopausal osteoporosis.	The most devastating consequence of osteoporosis is bone fracture, particularly at the vertebral or femoral level. As defined by the WHO, patients with osteoporosis who have had one or more fragility fractures have severe osteoporosis. Those who sustain a vertebral fracture represent a particularly vulnerable group whose risk of another vertebral fracture within the following year is increased by a factor of 3-5. In addition, the presence of a vertebral fracture is associated with an increased risk of hip fracture. In light of these data, treatment of established osteoporosis is extremely important to prevent other fragility fractures. This review examines the therapies approved by the US FDA for the treatment of osteoporosis that have been shown to reduce the incidence of new fractures in patients with established osteoporosis. We evaluated the mechanisms of action, available formulations, efficacy in preventing fractures and increasing bone mineral density (BMD), duration of treatment, adverse effects and contraindications to use of alendronic acid (alendronate), risedronic acid (risedronate), calcitonin, raloxifene and teriparatide. All these drugs are able to prevent new vertebral fractures in patients with established osteoporosis. Only alendronic acid and risedronic acid have also been shown to reduce the risk of fracture at the femoral level, but they are contraindicated in patients with upper gastrointestinal diseases. Calcitonin is a good option in subjects with back pain because of its analgesic effect. Raloxifene is useful when patients have high plasma lipid levels or a family history of breast cancer. Teriparatide is indicated in subjects with very low BMD and multiple vertebral fractures. Patient characteristics should determine selection of therapy but the decision is always difficult and fraught with uncertainty.
Teriparatide in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and mild or moderate renal impairment.	The prevalence of both osteoporosis and renal impairment increases with age.
Early responsiveness of women with osteoporosis to teriparatide after therapy with alendronate or risedronate.	Anabolic responsiveness to teriparatide can be blunted or delayed in patients previously treated with alendronate. The extent of this effect is different for other antiresorptives. This study evaluated the early anabolic effects of teriparatide in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis previously treated with alendronate or risedronate.
Teriparatide treatment complicated by malignant myeloma.	Recombinant human parathyroid hormone (1-34) (rhPTH 1-34), teriparatide (Forsteo in Europe), is a new compound that has been introduced and shown to be successful in the treatment of osteoporosis. The mechanisms of action include a pulsative influence on the RANKL/OPG system resulting in osteoblast activation and increased bone formation by teriparatide. In malignant myeloma there is an imbalance between osteoclast and osteoblast activity with involvement of the RANKL/OPG system among others. We report a case with monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance (MGUS) who developed malignant myeloma after teriparatide treatment and we suggest that in addition to malignant myeloma and smouldering myeloma, MGUS should also be considered contraindicated for teriparatide treatment.
Nonuremic calciphylaxis precipitated by teriparatide [rhPTH(1-34)] therapy in the setting of chronic warfarin and glucocorticoid treatment.	Calciphylaxis occurs rarely in the absence of end stage renal disease. Predisposing factors for nonuremic calciphylaxis (NUC) include hyperparathyroidism, coagulopathies, connective tissue disease, liver disease, glucocorticoid use, and malignancy. Warfarin can facilitate vascular calcification by reducing vitamin K-dependent carboxylation of matrix-Gla proteins. An 86-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of polymyalgia rheumatica, two spontaneous deep venous thromboses (DVTs) and multiple fractures was treated with calcium, vitamin D, prednisone, and warfarin. The patient's low bone density was treated initially with estrogen, then oral bisphosphonate, which was discontinued due to upper gastrointestinal symptoms. Nasal calcitonin was initiated. After 10 years of calcitonin treatment, she was changed to teriparatide. Two months after initiating teriparatide, she developed lower extremity edema and painful erythematous nodular lesions on her calves bilaterally, that progressed to necrotic ulcers despite antibiotic therapy. Biopsy of the lesions showed calcification in the media of small blood vessels and subcutaneous fat with fat necrosis, consistent with calciphylaxis. Teriparatide was discontinued. Aggressive wound care, antibiotics, and intravenous zoledronic acid were initiated. With cessation of teriparatide therapy and intensive wound care, the patient's lesions resolved over 8 months. We report the first case of NUC precipitated by teriparatide therapy. Our patient had multiple underlying predisposing factors including a connective tissue disorder, glucocorticoid therapy, warfarin use, and possible underlying coagulopathy given her history of multiple DVTs. In such patients, alternative osteoporosis therapies may be preferred.
