Influence of race on inpatient treatment intensity at the end of life.	To examine inpatient intensive care unit (ICU) and intensive procedure use by race among Medicare decedents, using utilization among survivors for comparison.
State of the art 2007]	The beginning of the modern hospice movement and palliative medicine relates to the recognition of the fact that a cure-oriented health care system often neglects the critically ill and the dying in terms of appropriate treatment and human care. Therefore, the idea was born to offer comprehensive medical, nursing, psychological, social and spiritual care for these patients and their families at a suitable location . This first location was St Christopher's Hospice in London; the starting point of a still ongoing humanly and ethically demanded development.
Spirituality and end-of-life care in disadvantaged men dying of prostate cancer.	Despite the positive influence of spiritual coping on the acceptance of a cancer diagnosis, higher spirituality is associated with receipt of more high intensity care at the end of life. The purpose of our study was to assess the association between spirituality and type of end-of-life care received by disadvantaged men with prostate cancer.
Trends in the aggressiveness of end-of-life cancer care in the universal health care system of Ontario, Canada.	To describe trends in the aggressiveness of end-of-life (EOL) cancer care in a universal health care system in Ontario, Canada, between 1993 and 2004, and to compare with findings reported in the United States.
Population, mortality and place of death in Germany (1950-2050) - implications for end-of-life care in the future.	European populations are ageing, but data on the associated end-of-life care needs are scarce. This study aimed to analyse population, mortality and place of death (PoD) trends in Germany since 1950, and to project mortality by PoD until 2050.
Issues of institutionalization: five percent fallacies and terminal care.	Place-of-death data are analyzed for King County, Washington (1971) and Whatcom County, Washington (1971, 1975, 1978), allowing comparisons with previous studies on "the five percent fallacy." The King County findings agree with past research on a major metropolitan area. For large urban areas, sex is found to be a significant correlate of place of death for whites (but not nonwhites), and race is found significant for females (but not males). Whatcom County data differ from earlier findings on a smaller geographic area. Changes in place-of-death distributions over time for Whatcom County are noted. Explanations are proferred for differences between the current data and past research, and for changes observed over time in one location. The implications of the findings for nursing homes and other extended care facilities, hospitals, health and old-age agencies, and the elderly themselves are discussed.
A note on methodological fallacies in the "X% fallacy" literature.	This article demonstrates that the numerical estimate of an approximately 25 percent risk of nursing home institutionalization reported in the "4-5% fallacy" literature is based on an invalid set of implicit assumptions. Using the most recent national level statistics on nursing home residency and discharge, a measurement technique is introduced to provide an estimate of the maximum and minimum number of nursing home residents in 1976, and a corresponding range for the annualized risk of institutionalization between 6 and 9 percent, within which the true risk must lie.
The 4% fallacy: R.I.P.	It is perhaps time for the 4% fallacy to rest in peace. Those who are alert to logical and methodological issues have probably registered the message clearly enough in the years since the first article appeared [1] and those who prefer fallacy have by now well demonstrated their invincibility. The diligent labors of McConnel [2, this issue], however, invite a brief and final response.
Dying when you're old.	This paper focuses on the deaths of older people and compares their circumstances and care with those of people dying at younger ages. Those dying when they are 85 years or more have greater needs and less support from relatives than people dying at younger ages. However, older people were not receiving more attention from general practitioners or from home nurses, even though those dying when they were 85 years or more were the least likely to be admitted to a hospital or hospice in the last year of their lives. The data add to the evidence from other studies that our health care services often fail to give appropriate and adequate care to older people.
