Comparison of ultrasonographic and laparoscopic findings in adult nonpalpable testes cases.	There is a small number of studies in adult nonpalpable testes cases, and there is no published paper on the diagnostic value of their ultrasonographic examination. In this prospective study, we compared the sonographic and laparoscopic findings in adult cases with nonpalpable testes to assess the necessity and the profits of ultrasound.
Prevention of ischemic orchitis during inguinal hernioplasty.	Ischemic orchitis and testicular atrophy remain the most dreaded complications of inguinal hernioplasties. The current study examines these complications in a series of hernia repairs during a period of 20 years. The incidence of the complications in the ten year period from 1971 to 1981 was compared with the experience since 1981, from which time all distal indirect hernia sacs were left in place and increasing experience was gained in properitoneal repairs of recurrent hernias. The incidence of ischemic orchitis in primary hernia repairs was reduced from 0.65 per cent (11 instances in 1,682 repairs) to 0.03 per cent (one in 3,634 repairs). The incidence in recurrent hernia repairs was reduced from 2.25 per cent (seven in 311 repairs) to 0.97 per cent (eight in 827 repairs). These data have led us to emphasize the importance of minimizing cord dissection by leaving intact all significant distal hernia sacs and not dissecting beyond the pubic tubercle. Additionally, properitoneal repairs should be considered for repairs of recurrent hernias not only to reduce further recurrences but also to avoid testicular complications.
Early treatment of varicocele in children and adolescents]	Since 1970 we perform the prophylactic operation of grade II and III varicocele during childhood and puberty, even if there were overtreatment. Varicocele may very early interfere with testicular development and already causes histological changes in boys at the beginning of puberty. We have made a follow-up study of 25 adult men, who have been operated by high resection of spermatic vessels during childhood (mean age 13 years). Results are very good: no testicular atrophy and in nearly all cases a normal sperm count or only slight OAT-syndrome. Compared with a group of non-treated men of the same age sperm counts are better and the number of fertile sperms higher. For that reason we recommend treatment as early as possible in childhood and puberty.
Preperitoneal synthetic mesh placement for recurrent hernias of the groin.	In order to improve the results and avoid the testicular complications attending the standard repair of recurrent hernias of the groin, we have used the preperitoneal route to reduce the hernia and place a veil of Teflon to act as a new "fascia transversalis." This technique has been used in 50 such operations and the results have been presented herein.
