Sertoli cell proliferations of the infantile testis: an intratubular form of Sertoli cell tumor?	We report on six boys with intratubular Sertoli cell proliferations (ISCPs), studied by routine histologic methods, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry of anti-müllerian hormone (AMH), inhibin alpha-subunit, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD), proliferative cellular nuclear antigen, and p53, and carefully followed for extended periods with periodic clinical examinations, testicular ultrasonographies, and determinations of serum levels of AMH and inhibin B. Peutz-Jeghers syndrome was found in four of six patients, and gynecomastia occurred in five of six patients. One boy had isosexual pseudoprecocity. ISCPs were observed as multiple foci of seminiferous tubules with large and proliferated Sertoli cells replacing germ cells and limited by the basement membrane. Mitotic figures, atypia, and/or interstitial invasion were not observed. Bilateral ISCPs were the only pathologic finding in three patients (patient nos. 1-3) and were associated with a microscopic tumor that resembled a large-cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumor (LCCSCT) in a fourth patient (patient no. 4). In the two remaining patients (patient nos. 5 and 6) ISCPs and LCCSCT were found in both testes. Ultrastructural examination showed large Sertoli cells, with round nuclei, sparse organelles, and some glycogen. Inhibin alpha-subunit immunolocalization was positive in the five patients in whom it was determined (patient nos. 2-6), AMH was positive in those ISCPs associated with tumors (patient nos. 4-6) and negative in isolated ISCPs (patient nos. 2 and 3); 3beta-HSD and PCNA were variable, and p53 was negative in all ISCPs. Patient nos. 1-4 have been followed for 2-19 years. One of them is currently entering puberty, the other two have already completed puberty and have testes of normal size, and the remaining one is an adult with clinically normal testes and sperm production. None of these patients had evidence of tumor development during follow-up as shown by serial ultrasonographies and serum levels of AMH and inhibin B. Patient nos. 5 and 6 who had bilateral ISCPs and LCCSCT were orchidectomized and evolved for 2-10 years after surgery without tumor recurrence. The prognostic significance of ISCPs, particularly when they are the only pathologic finding in a testicular biopsy, is a matter of controversy. Based on the long normal evolution, we recommend a conservative approach to therapy. The bilateral and multicentric character of ISCPs and their association with Sertoli tumors and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome suggest that they represent either proliferative lesions with tumorigenic potential or the intraepithelial stage in the evolution of some testicular Sertoli cell tumors.
Congenital gonadotropin deficiency in boys: management during childhood.	To analyze the features of boys with congenital gonadotropin deficiency (CGD), and to determine the value of plasma inhibin B and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) for predicting testicular function and the effect of testosterone treatment.
Inhibin B and anti-Müllerian hormone, but not testosterone levels, are normal in infants with nonmosaic Klinefelter syndrome.	Klinefelter syndrome is a major cause of infertility in the male. Nevertheless, pregnancies were recently obtained by intracytoplasmic injection of sperm retrieved by surgery or ejaculation, underscoring the need to understand the role of Sertoli and Leydig cell secretions during development. In 18 infants with prenatally diagnosed homogenous 47,XXY karyotype, blood samples were taken from birth to 3 yr of age. Inhibin B (INHB), anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), testosterone, FSH, and LH levels were compared with those in six adolescents with XXY karyotype and reference values established in 215 control infants. In XXY infants FSH, LH, INHB, and AMH did not differ from controls. Testosterone levels during the first trimester exhibited a physiological increase but were lower than in controls (P = 0.0001). Significant correlations were found between testosterone and LH (P < 0001), between INHB and FSH (P = 0.0011), and between AMH and INHB (P = 0.025). In XXY adolescents, AMH and INHB were undetectable. Our findings demonstrate that testosterone secretion is impaired in infants with Klinefelter syndrome. By contrast, INHB and AMH secretions were not altered, which raises the question of the mechanism(s) governing the decline of Sertoli cell function after puberty.
Dynamics of serum anti-Müllerian hormone levels during the luteal phase of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.	To investigate the dynamics of serum anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) levels during the luteal phase of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and its possible association with follicle development.
Metformin reduces serum mullerian-inhibiting substance levels in women with polycystic ovary syndrome after protracted treatment.	Assessment of ovarian responses to metformin treatment in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
Protein D is differentially expressed and regulated in the rat epididymis.	We report the use of a sensitive and specific enyzme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to study the expression of protein D, a major androgen-regulated sperm-binding glycoprotein at the protein and mRNA level in different anatomical regions of the rat epididymis. The concentration of protein D in the caput, corpus and cauda region of the epididymis was 10.2 +/- 0.67, 7.3 +/- 0.61 and 22.8 +/- 1.34 ng/micrograms total protein, respectively. The total RNA extracted from the caput, corpus and cauda regions of the rat epididymis was amplified by PCR with oligonucleotide primers specific for the 5' and 3' portion of protein D cDNA. Compared to the caput and cauda region, a significant reduction (greater than 82 +/- 3%) in the expression of protein D mRNA levels was observed for corpus epididymal RNA. This data demonstrates regional differences in the concentration of protein D and suggests that protein D expression may be regulated at the level of mRNA within the corpus epididymidis.
Anti-mullerian hormone as a marker of ovarian reserve.	To analyse the usefulness of plasma anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) measurement as a tool for assessing ovarian reserve in a general infertility population.
Basal level of anti-Müllerian hormone is associated with oocyte quality in stimulated cycles.	Serum anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) levels provide a powerful means for predicting ovarian response, which is reflected not only by the size of the primordial follicle pool but also by the quality of the oocytes. Considering a mutual interdependence between AMH-expressing somatic cells and gametes, this prospective morphological study was set up to evaluate whether extreme AMH levels represent diminished oocyte quality and developmental incompetence.
Measurement of serum anti-Müllerian hormone by Beckman Coulter ELISA and DSL ELISA: comparison and relevance in assisted reproduction technology (ART).	Numerous studies have evocated the clinical usefulness of serum AMH levels as a predictor of ovarian response and pregnancy in assisted reproductive technology cycles. Nevertheless, the analysis of the literature shows a great dispersion in serum AMH concentrations obtained with different methods from almost comparable populations.
Serum anti-Müllerian hormone expression in women with premature ovarian failure.	Premature ovarian failure (POF) is generally irreversible. However, developing follicles up to the antral stage are reported in POF and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) might be a good indicator of follicular presence. This study analysed serum AMH, ovarian histology and AMH immunoexpression in POF patients.
Antimüllerian hormone predicts ovarian responsiveness, but not embryo quality or pregnancy, after in vitro fertilization or intracyoplasmic sperm injection.	Antimüllerian hormone (AMH) and other markers of ovarian reserve were assessed to determine their predictive value with respect to treatment outcome. In a multivariate regression analysis, AMH was found to be predictive of the number of oocytes and the number of embryos, but not of embryo quality or the chance of a pregnancy, after IVF/ICSI.
Association of anti-mullerian hormone levels with obesity in late reproductive-age women.	To describe anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels in healthy late reproductive age women and test the hypothesis that AMH levels are lower in obese compared to non-obese women.
A diurnal variation in testicular hormone production is maintained following gonadotrophin suppression in normal men.	A diurnal variation in serum testosterone in adult men is well recognized, but whether this occurs during exogenous testosterone administration and the degree to which it is endogenous to the testis is unclear.
The Anti-Mullerian hormone and ovarian cancer.	The Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH), which is produced by fetal Sertoli cells, is responsible for regression of Mullerian ducts, the anlagen for uterus and Fallopian tubes, during male sex differentiation. Ovarian granulosa cells also secrete AMH from late in fetal life. The patterns of expression of AMH and its type II receptor in the post-natal ovary indicate that AMH may play an important role in ovarian folliculogenesis. Recent advances in the physiological role of AMH has stimulated interest in the significance of AMH as a diagnostic marker and therapeutic agent for ovarian cancer. Currently, AMH has been shown to be a circulating marker specifically for granulosa cell tumour (GCT). Its diagnostic performance seems to be very good, with a sensitivity ranging between 76 and 93%. In patients treated for GCT, AMH may be used post-operatively as marker for the efficacy of surgery and for disease recurrence. Based on the physiological inhibitory role of AMH in the Mullerian ducts, it has been proposed that AMH may inhibit epithelial ovarian cancer cell both in vitro and in vivo. These observations will be the basis for future research aiming to investigate the possible clinical role of AMH as neo-adjuvant, or most probably adjuvant, therapy for ovarian cancer.
Acute effects of metformin therapy include improvement of insulin resistance and ovarian morphology.	To evaluate the acute effects of metformin therapy on biochemical markers and polycystic ovarian morphology among insulin-resistant (IR) and noninsulin-resistant (NIR) patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
Predictors of recovery of ovarian function during weight gain in anorexia nervosa.	To investigate whether serum levels of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), inhibin B, and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) can be used as predictors of recovery of ovarian function in anorexia nervosa after weight gain.
Increased oocyte degeneration and follicular atresia during the estrous cycle in anti-Müllerian hormone null mice.	Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) plays an important role in folliculogenesis. AMH null mice display an increased recruitment of primordial follicles. Nevertheless, these mice do not have proportionally more preovulatory follicles. Therefore, AMH null mice provide an interesting genetic model to study the regulation of species-specific number of preovulatory follicles. We studied the follicle pool throughout the estrous cycle at 4 months of age. Analysis of the follicle pool revealed that AMH null mice have an increased and earlier cyclic recruitment of growing follicles despite a blunted FSH surge at estrus. However, FSH levels at estrus were apparently too low to support growth to the preovulatory stage because an increased level of atresia was observed, which neutralized the increased cyclic recruitment. When AMH null mice were subjected to a superovulation scheme, the rise in FSH levels resulted in the rescue of the recruited cohort of growing follicles. Analysis of the follicle pool also revealed that the increased recruitment of primordial follicles in AMH null mice was neutralized by an increased loss of follicles during the transition from small preantral to large preantral follicle. This major loss of follicles was not completely reflected by a corresponding augmentation of atresia but did correspond with an increased number of oocyte remnants observed in AMH null mice. We conclude that a combination of increased oocyte degeneration and increased follicular atresia neutralizes the increased initial and cyclic recruitment in AMH null mice to a normal number of preovulatory follicles.
Serum anti-mullerian hormone concentrations are not altered by acute administration of follicle stimulating hormone in polycystic ovary syndrome and normal women.	In the human ovary, expression of anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) is detected primarily in granulosa cells of preantral and small antral follicles. This finding is consistent with the tight correlation between circulating AMH levels and the number of small antral follicles (2-5 mm) in normal and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) women. In addition, the greater follicle count in PCOS is mirrored by significantly higher serum AMH levels compared with those of normal women. Despite the utility of AMH measurements in evaluating ovarian physiology and function, the regulation of AMH remains poorly understood.
Gonadal function in low birth weight infants: a pilot study.	To evaluate gonadal function and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) serum concentrations during the first 3 months of life in low birth weight (low-BW) and normal birth weight (normal-BW) infants. INFANTS: Twenty low-BW and 29 normal-BW infants were studied.
Ovarian function after cancer treatment in young women affected by Hodgkin disease (HD).	We have evaluated the best method to assess the ovarian reserve and the ovarian protective effect of GnRH-analog (GnRH-a), in 29 women with Hodgkin's disease (HD) treated with chemotherapy (CHT). The ovarian reserve was studied by measuring the serum levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), inhibin B, antimullerian hormone (AMH) and the ultrasound antral follicular count (AFC). The patients were randomly treated with or without GnRH-a. At the time of study menstrual function was normal in 21 cases (72.4%), but absent in 8 (27.5%). Mean basal values of FSH, LH, AMH, inhibin B and AFC were normal in patients less than 30 years old and in the group treated four years or less before observation. AFC appeared to be the best marker of reduced ovarian reserve and a combination of AFC-AMH or inhibin B appeared the best predictor. In the GnRH-a group, no women had amenorrhoea, although ovarian reserve assessment was not significantly different from those who were not treated. The time-interval from CHT was the only significant predictor of ovarian function in GnRH-a treated patients. In conclusion, ovarian reserve evaluation, in young patients treated by CHT, can be performed by AFC. GnRH-a treatment does not have a protective effect, but could delay the development of ovarian failure.
Late hormonal function after testicular torsion.	Testicular torsion may be an important cause of male infertility. We aimed to investigate the late hormonal function in patients with testicular ischemia/reperfusion injury of the testis after orchidectomy or detorsion.
Anti-müllerian hormone and testosterone serum levels are inversely during normal and precocious pubertal development.	Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), also called Müllerian inhibiting substance or factor, is produced by Sertoli cells from fetal life until puberty. In the present study, AMH, testosterone (T), LH, and FSH were measured by immunochemical methods in the serum of 50 boys with normal or delayed pubertal development, 4 patients with suspected androgen insensitivity, and 11 patients with either central (CPP) or gonadotropin-independent (GIPP) precocious puberty to investigate the hormonal regulatory mechanisms of AMH secretion at puberty. An inverse relationship between AMH and T levels was demonstrated. In boys with normal or delayed puberty with T concentrations below 6.7 nmol/L, AMH values were elevated (mean +/- SEM, 22.4 +/- 3.1 micrograms/L) and widely dispersed. In subjects with T levels over 6.7 nmol/L, AMH levels were uniformly low (3.4 +/- 0.5 micrograms/L), except in patients with suspected androgen insensitivity. No significant relationship was found between AMH and gonadotropin levels. Similar results were obtained in patients with either CPP or GIPP. Longitudinal studies were performed on four boys with CPP and two with GIPP before and after treatment. At the time of diagnosis, the T concentration was high, and AMH levels were usually low in CPP and GIPP patients alike. When appropriate treatment was initiated, the T concentration was normalized within 2-4 weeks, but restoration of prepubertal AMH levels required several months. Mature Sertoli cells were observed in testicular biopsies performed in three patients with untreated GIPP. Our results suggest that gonadotropins are not directly implicated in repression of AMH synthesis at puberty, but, rather, that the decrease in AMH production is the consequence of an androgen-mediated, long term, reversible chain of events leading to morphological and functional maturation of the Sertoli cells. Thus, the fall in serum AMH levels appears to be an excellent marker of Sertoli cell pubertal development.
Molecular genetics of the persistent müllerian duct syndrome: a study of 19 families.	A rare form of familial male pseudohermaphroditism, the persistent Müllerian duct syndrome (PMDS) is characterized by persistence of uterus and Fallopian tubes in 46,XY phenotypic males and is ascribed to defects in the synthesis or action of anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH). Biologically, PMDS is heterogeneous: in some cases, bioactive AMH is normally expressed by testicular tissue while, in others, no AMH is produced, suggesting the possibility of an AMH gene mutation, several of which have already been described. Molecular analysis of the AMH gene has now been performed in 21 additional patients and their families. In 6 patients, with normal serum concentration of AMH, the AMH gene was normal or contained only polymorphisms and silent mutations, supporting the hypothesis that the condition is due to end-organ resistance. Nine novel mutations were discovered in the remaining subjects, with low or undetectable levels of serum AMH. These mutations, when present in homozygotes or compound heterozygotes, were associated with the PMDS phenotype, the same mutation never being observed in two different families. The three first exons of the AMH gene appear particularly mutation-prone, although they are less GC rich than the 2 last ones and code for the N-terminal part of the AMH protein, which is not in itself essential to bioactivity.
