The use of continuous atropine infusion in the management of severe tetanus.	Because previous studies assumed that tetanus is an acetylcholine intoxication, atropine as a potent anticholinergic agent has been employed as a continuous infusion in the treatment of 4 severe tetanus cases as a supplement to routine therapy. With this treatment all patients maintained complete cardiovascular stability; clinical symptoms like bronchospasm, bronchial hypersecretion, hypersalivation, hyperperspiration were not encountered at any period of the treatment. All patients were markedly sedated and despite the use of mechanical ventilation, curarisation was not necessary at all. These results suggest that the multiple effects (CNS, cardiovascular respiratory and muscular tone) of atropine might be very useful in the management of severe tetanus.
Neonatal tetanus: incidence and improved outcome with diazepam.	During a four-year prospective study at a referral hospital, 61 patients with neonatal tetanus were encountered and the contribution of continuous intravenous diazepam was noted. The over-all incidence during the study was 21.8/1000, with a mortality rate of 8.2 per cent. Signs associated with fatal outcome were hypothermia, generalized rigidity and opisthotonus. The mean dose of diazepam used was 25.8 mg/kg/day, in combination with sodium phenobarbitone (mean dose 10.7 mg/kg/day). The results suggest that high-dose intravenous (continuous) diazepam is effective, economical and feasible for reducing mortality in neonatal tetanus. Side-effects were minimal.
Risk factors associated with outcome in dogs with tetanus: 38 cases (1987-2005).	To assess the clinical course of disease and risk factors associated with outcome in dogs with tetanus.
Retrospective study of tetanus in 20 dogs: 1988-2004.	The case records of 20 dogs that were treated for tetanus between 1988 and 2004 were reviewed. Young, large-breed dogs were most commonly affected. Twelve dogs had a likely source of infection identified. All dogs were treated with intravenous antibiotics and supportive care, such as muscle relaxants and sedation for muscle tremors and rigidity. Sixteen dogs received tetanus antitoxin. The mortality rate was 50%. Complete recovery in survivors required approximately 1 month.
Penicillin-induced hemolytic anemia and acute hepatic failure following treatment of tetanus in a horse.	Acute, severe hemolytic anemia occurred in a horse being treated for tetanus with intravenous penicillin and tetanus antitoxin. During treatment, the horse developed a positive direct antiglobulin test and a high titer (maximum 1:1024) of IgG anti-penicillin antibody. The horse recovered from the tetanus and penicillin induced hemolytic anemia, but later developed acute hepatic failure, probably resulting from the administration of equine origin tetanus antitoxin.
Post traumatic tetanus and role of magnesium sulphate.	Tetanus is a life threatening disease. Reported mortality for tetanus is 15-39%. Conventional treatment includes heavy sedation and artificial ventilation. Complications resulting from long term heavy sedation and artificial ventilation contribute to 60% of the total mortality caused by tetanus. In this study magnesium sulphate was used to reduce the need for sedation and artificial ventilation. Objectives of this prospective study were to determine the role of magnesium sulphate in post traumatic tetanus.
