Tetanus surveillance--United States, 1998--2000.	Tetanus is a severe and often fatal infection. The incidence of reported cases in the United States has declined steadily since introduction of tetanus toxoid vaccines in the 1940s.
Tetanus in developing countries: an update on the Maternal and Neonatal Tetanus Elimination Initiative.	Tetanus is a vaccine-preventable disease that yearly causes a total of 309,000 deaths. Of particular concern is maternal and neonatal tetanus (MNT), which can be prevented through immunization of the mother in pregnancy. In 2000, neonatal tetanus alone was responsible for an estimated 200,000 deaths. While the focus is on 57 priority countries, 90% of the neonatal tetanus deaths occur in 27 countries. UNICEF is spearheading the effort to eliminate MNT by the year 2005, with the support of numerous partners. MNT elimination is defined as less than one case of neonatal tetanus per 1000 live births at district level. The main strategies consist of promotion of clean delivery practices, immunization of women with a tetanus toxoid (TT) containing vaccine, and surveillance. Maternal tetanus immunization is, in most developing countries, implemented as part of the routine immunization program. However, large areas remain underserved, due to logistical, cultural, economical or other reasons. In order to achieve the target of MNT elimination by 2005, and to offer protection to women and children otherwise deprived from regular immunization services, countries are encouraged to adopt the "high risk approach". This approach implies that, in addition to routine immunization of pregnant women, all women of child bearing age living in high risk areas are targeted for immunization with three doses of a tetanus toxoid containing vaccine (TT or Td), implemented as "supplemental immunization activities" (SIAs). Through SIAs, about 17 million women have been reached with at least two doses of TT vaccine in the past 3 years, and it is estimated that another 200 million need to be targeted in the years to come. SIAs should substantially reduce the burden of disease. Countries will also have to improve their existing immunization and clean delivery programs to ensure that the elimination of maternal and neonatal tetanus is maintained.
Tetanus immunity in a partially vaccinated population of children in a district of Naples (Secondigliano).	A general opinion is that compliance with the compulsory immunization programme of children is excellent in Italy. We have studied antitetanus immunity in relation to vaccination history in a sample of 444 school children born between 1977 and 1981 in a district of Naples. Information on vaccination history was collected by interviewing the parents and validated using the official vaccination certificates. Titration of antibodies against tetanus was carried out by the immunoenzymatic method. 0.9% of our study subjects had not been vaccinated at all and only 21.2% had received 4 vaccine doses. In 18 children the presence of antitetanus antibodies was not detected; 14 of them had received one or more doses of vaccine. The lack of compliance with the vaccination programme was associated with a remarkable delay in administering the tetanus vaccine. In the population reported here, the percentage of subjects only partially covered is higher than that found in other regions of Italy.
The prevalence of tetanus antibodies in the adult population of Catalonia]	The aim of this study was to know the immune state of the adult population of Catalonia (Spain) versus tetanus.
The seroepidemiology of tetanus in Catalonia, Spain.	Titres of anti-tetanus toxin antibodies > or = 0.1 IU/ml were determined using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay in representative samples of the juvenile and adult population of Catalonia. The prevalence obtained in 1,316 juveniles and 1,296 adults was 99.4 and 68.3%, respectively. In adults, the prevalence in males (76.5%) was higher (P < 0.001) than in females (61.7%), fell with increasing age and was higher in subjects born in Catalonia (72.5%) than in those born outside Catalonia (57.9%) (P < 0.001). These results show that routine vaccination of children is successful. In adults aged > or = 45 years, the prevalence is inadequate and efforts should be made to increase vaccination.
Pattern of admissions to the medical intensive care unit of Addis Ababa University Teaching Hospital.	A case-series study of all admissions using patient registers was carried out to analyse patterns of medical admissions into the Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) of the Addis Ababa University Teaching Hospital, and evaluate for any changes in that pattern over a study period. All patients admitted to the MICU of a 500-bed Teaching Hospital in Addis Ababa between 1985-2000 were the study subjects. Demographic variables, specific categories of diagnoses and their outcomes were recorded A total of 3548 patients (male to female ratio of 1.4:1, mean age 37.10 +/- 17.29) were admitted from September 1985 to August 2000. Acute infectious and cardiovascular diseases accounted for half of the entire critical care admissions with infectious diseases accounting for 30%. Among specific diagnoses, diabetic ketoacidosis was the leading cause of admission followed by acute myocardial infarction and severe and complicated malaria, each accounting for 10.7, 9.8 and 9.3% of all admissions respectively. Trends of admissions over the sixteen-year period showed steady increase in relative frequency of acute complications of non-communicable diseases consisting of diabetes, acute myocardial infarction and stroke while infectious diseases showed interspersed peaks of admissions coinciding with epidemics. The overall mortality of the MICU was 32%, with proportionally more female deaths, 34.8 versus 29% (P = 0.0002). Severe and complicated malaria was the leading cause of death (10.3%) followed by tetanus (6.4%) and acute myocardial infarction (6.3%). The increase in relative and absolute frequency of acute complications of non-communicable diseases most probably heralds an emerging epidemic of non-communicable diseases related to life style changes in the urban well to do in addition to existing problems of infectious diseases of poverty.
Epidemiological characteristics of tetanus in Vojvodina]	Vojvodina is an endemic area for tetanus.
Emergency nurse practitioner management of tetanus status and tetanus-prone wounds.	The aim of this paper is to address the management of tetanus-prone wounds and the use of tetanus prophylaxis within the remit of the emergency nurse practitioner (ENP) to ensure safe and effective management of patients who present to the Emergency Department (ED) with tetanus-prone wounds. The paper will also provide the reader with an overview of the epidemiology of tetanus along with the signs and symptoms of tetanus. Practicalities of tetanus vaccine storage and injection will also be discussed. The paper will also discuss Protetanus which is a single step immunoassay for the determination of anti-tetanus immune status; this product has the potential to reduce over immunisation with tetanus and can provide the clinician with a tetanus antibody status in patients who are unaware of their own immunisation status.
Outbreak of tetanus cases following the tsunami in Aceh Province, Indonesia.	Aceh Province in Indonesia was the area most severely affected by the tsunami of 26 December 2004. Extensive loss of life, property, and livelihood left a large segment of the population without basic needs and vulnerable to epidemic-prone diseases. Following the tsunami, a surveillance/early warning and response system was implemented to detect, investigate, and respond to outbreaks of communicable diseases. Fixed and mobile clinics, hospitals, and laboratories, operating all over the affected areas, reported weekly figures and daily alerts. Over 1 month following the tsunami, 106 cases of clinically diagnosed tetanus were reported. Most cases occurred among adults. The case fatality ratio was 18.9%, higher among older patients and among those with short incubation periods. No other major outbreaks occurred in the acute phase of the emergency. This series of tetanus cases was the largest cluster reported following a natural disaster or mass casualty event, overtaken only by the recent earthquake in the Kashmir (139 cases reported), and reflects the high number of injuries which occurred during the tsunami and poor prior immunization status of the population. In the context of natural disasters, preventive measures against tetanus, including wound cleaning and active and passive immunization, should be routinely conducted. Immediate disaster relief should include supplies for the management of wounds and cases of tetanus.
Morbidity and mortality of infectious diseases determined mass vaccination in children under 5 ans in Bamako District]	Available facts on morbidity and mortality due to PEV diseases for children under 5 years come from routine facts in Bamako District. The Present study through population investigation proposed to evaluate indicators. It was about a transversal investigation realised about 1014 children less than 5 year living in Bamako (on October 2000). The selection of children has been made by boring after stratification of the district based on socio-economic level and stabilization of population of different sectors. According to study, the global incidence rate of target patients of PEV is about 4.93% +- 1.33%. These rate were about 4.14% +- 1.22% for measles which is the 1st cause of morbidity among target patients of PEV, 0.69% +- 0.50% for whooping cough, 0.903% +- 0.19 for poliomyelitis and 0% for neo natal tetanus. For tuberculosis of which evolution have been appreciated trough counting of antituberculosis clinic register (DAT) during 10 years (1990-1999), its tendency was increasing. The death rate registered during investigation was related to measles with an estimated rate of 4.93% +- 4.31%. Results analysis, global incidence of PEV target patients was in decrease at Bamako district. At vaccinated patients against measles (64.3%) and whooping cough (57.14%) is in favour for an investigation about effective vaccinal.
Tetanus seroepidemiology and factors influencing immunity status among farmers of advanced age.	Tetanus, which is a vaccine preventable disease, remains a significant health concern. The mortality is especially high in elderly and farming is a significant risk factor for the disease. This study evaluates the serological immunity of tetanus and the related factors, in a farmer population.
Childhood neurological illness in Nepal.	The commonly encountered neurological disorders in Nepalese children are febrile encephalopathies, neurocysticercosis, and epilepsy, and neonatal encephalopathy, neuro-psychiatric and neuromuscular disease. Also, these children in Nepal remain one of the most vulnerable and marginalized groups in the community. Due to the lack of proper facilities some preventable and treatable neurological conditions continue to paralyze the children's physical and mental health. The alarmingly high prevalence of these neurological illnesses has high mortality and morbidity in children ultimately adding financial burden to the family, society and the country as a whole. The paucity of data and difficulties in proper collection of reliable facts further hampers to understand the actual magnitude of this problem.
India is on the way forward to maternal and neonatal tetanus elimination!	Tetanus is an acute, potentially fatal disease, caused by a bacterium, Clostridium tetani. The disease usually occurs in newborns through infection of the unhealed umbilical stump, particularly when the stump is cut with a non-sterile instrument. NT contributes to 5-7% of neonatal mortality worldwide. Several thousand mothers are also estimated to die annually of maternal tetanus. MNT elimination relies on promotion of maternal tetanus immunization along with safe delivery and avoidance of unsafe abortion and umbilical cord care practices. The Government of India (1983) introduced at least two doses of tetanus toxoid vaccine (TT) to all pregnant women during each pregnancy as a part of its nationwide immunization policy. To date, a total of 15 States including union territories of the India have achieved NT elimination. The remaining Indian States need to strengthen TT coverage to save the lives of neonates as well as mothers from tetanus.
Epidemiological trends of tetanus from East Delhi, India: a hospital-based study.	To study the demographic profile, prognostic indicators, and mortality of tetanus patients and treatment outcomes following intramuscular anti-tetanus immunoglobulin (ATG) alone or combined intrathecal and intramuscular ATG.
Validation on the elimination of neonatal tetanus programs through Lot Quality Assurance-Cluster Sample Survey in China]	Field surveys were performed under WHO recommended validation procedures, using the Lot Quality Assurance-Cluster Sample(LQA-CS)method to validate the elimination status regarding neonatal tetanus in China.
Immunological structure of the population in a system of epidemiological surveillance of diphtheria]	The characteristics of antitetanus and antidiphtheria immunity in children, adolescents and adults in Perm have been determined by means of the passive hemagglutination test, and the tendency towards the decrease of their immunity to diphtheria with the increase of their age has been established. The registered and actual coverage of children and adolescents by immunization is characterized on the basis of the presence of antibodies to the tetanus component of combined vaccines. A considerable proportion of persons at boarding schools and vocational technical schools has been found to be seronegative with respect to diphtheria. The seasonal dynamics of antitoxic immunity is presented.
Epidemiology and immunity to tetanus in Sweden.	An investigation of tetanus antitoxin titres in the Swedish population was carried out in 1985. In Sweden, primary vaccination against tetanus has consisted of 3 doses at intervals of 4-6 weeks, beginning in the 2nd or 3rd month of life. A booster dose is offered to school children at 8-10 years of age. Three levels of antitoxin concentration (0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 U/ml) are used to demonstrate different titre levels. The interpretation is based on the premise that a serum level of 0.01 U/ml is sufficient to protect the subject against clinical tetanus. A protective titre level (greater than 0.01 U/ml) was found in 98-99% of children and young adults. A rapid decrease in the number of children with high titres (0.05-0.1 U/ml) was observed after the age of 1 and was very low in the 4-5-year-old children. An increase in the number with titres of 0.05 and 0.1 U/ml was seen after the booster dose given at school. A protective level was detected in all 21-30-year-old men and in 94% of the women, in 94% of 31-50-year-old men and in 73% of the women in the same age group. 70% of 31-40-year-old men reached antitoxin concentrations of 0.1 U/ml, and 38% of the 41-50-year-olds. The corresponding figures for women were 22% and 16% respectively. In people over 60 years, 80% of the men and 56% of the women reached protective levels of antibodies.
Epidemiology of tetanus in Denmark 1920-1982.	Tetanus is still a major health problem in developing countries and still occurs in countries with a high medical standard. To guide planning of future prophylactic programs, incidence and mortality from tetanus in Denmark previous and present prophylactic efforts have been studied. Incidence and mortality from neonatal tetanus decreased in the thirties probably consequently to social and hygienic improvement, and a very marked decrease coincided with the introduction of vaccination against tetanus in 1947. Since 1970 no case of neonatal tetanus has been observed. Mortality from non-neonatal tetanus was reduced markedly in 2 steps, coinciding with an increased use of tetanus antitoxin around 1930 and the introduction of vaccination respectively. The effect of routine vaccination in childhood from 1950 was especially prominent. Tetanus in childhood is now nearly eradicated. A survey of all hospitalized cases of tetanus 1978-1982 showed that the majority of patients were incompletely or never vaccinated, but 10% had a history of complete vaccination. The majority of cases developed from minor posttraumatic lesions, of which only 41% had been professionally treated, and 13% developed from non-traumatic lesions. It is concluded that vaccination programs offering continuous protection are needed for a complete eradication of tetanus. Fatality remains high, in the present series 9.4%, and is mostly due to cardiovascular manifestations.
Zoonoses in Vojvodina. I. Epidemiologic characteristics of tetanus in Vojvodina]	Epidemiologic characteristics of tetanus in Voivodina were analyzed on the basis of reported cases of sickness or death, during the period from 1962 to 1991, and epidemiologic investigation on 35 sick persons suffering from tetanus during the last 5 years. By compulsory immunization against tetanus this disease is practically eliminated at the age when one is protected by immunity vaccine. Abandoning domiciliary childbirth neonatorum tetanus has been eliminated. Today tetanus occurs sporadically as a result of small, naive injuries, mostly in nonimmunized elderly people. Considering number of the sick, in 6.1% it happens to persons older than 60 years of age. Tetanus remains a health problem because of its high lethality, which is statistically significantly higher in older patients. On the basis of gathered results it is realistic to expect that applying compulsory immunization against tetanus to older people in 10 year intervals will not eliminate this disease, but it will significantly reduce lethality which is still about 25% in Voivodina.
Tetanus and traditional practices in Dakar (report of 141 cases)]	In this study undertaken in the Infectious Diseases department CHU Fann Dakar, between january 1982 and december 1990 the authors report their observations about 141 cases of tetanus occurred by traditional practices: circumcision, excision, tattooing, scarification, ears piercing. The annual incidence of tetanus occurred by traditional practices was 15.6 cases. It represents 3.6% of all tetanus cases during the study period (n = 3844). The circumcision represents 59.4% (n = 84), the ears piercing 34.4% (n = 48), excision 2.8% (n = 4), scarification 2.1% (n = 3) and tattooing 2 cases. The mortality of tetanus occurred by traditional practices was 8.5%. Health education, information and vaccination against tetanus for all ages according to WHO recommendations will help to eradiquate tetanus in developing countries.
Control of neonatal tetanus in southern Thailand.	Prior to 1989, Krabi and Satun, two neighbouring provinces with similar socioeconomic background and health service coverage, had the highest reported incidence rates of neonatal tetanus in Thailand (3 per 1000 livebirths). A control programme was conducted between 1989 and 1991. The objective of this study was to examine changes in prevalence of risk factors among the population and changes in incidence rates of this disease due to this programme. Two 30-cluster surveys to measure prevalence rates of risk factors were conducted in Krabi, before and after the campaign. Information on incidence was obtained from routine surveillance. The intervention in Krabi consisted of mass immunization and intensive education for traditional birth attendants (TBA) whereas only the latter was carried out in Satun. The incidence of neonatal tetanus in both provinces declined dramatically to less than 0.4 per 1000 livebirths in 1990 and 1991. From 1989 to 1991, in Krabi Province, the coverage of at least two doses of tetanus toxoid injections at any time prior to delivery, delivery by trained health personnel, acceptable sterile technique for umbilical cord cutting and correct method of dressing the umbilical stump rose from 70 to 88%, 55-80% cent, 80-94% and 40-74%, respectively. Reduction in the incidence rate of neonatal tetanus was achieved by strengthening of routine health services with or without additional mass immunization. Considering that the coverage of immunization has not yet been completed and the prevalence rates of different risk factors are still high, further attempts to improve the problem of neonatal tetanus are necessary.
