Differential effects of ethanol antagonism and neuroprotection in peptide fragment NAPVSIPQ prevention of ethanol-induced developmental toxicity.	NAPVSIPQ (NAP), an active fragment of the glial-derived activity-dependent neuroprotective protein, is protective at femtomolar concentrations against a wide array of neural insults and prevents ethanol-induced fetal wastage and growth retardation in mice. NAP also antagonizes ethanol inhibition of L1-mediated cell adhesion (ethanol antagonism). We performed an Ala scanning substitution of NAP to determine the role of ethanol antagonism and neuroprotection in NAP prevention of ethanol embryotoxicity. The Ser-Ile-Pro region of NAP was crucial for both ethanol antagonism and protection of cortical neurons from tetrodotoxin toxicity (neuroprotection). Ala replacement of either Ser-5 or Pro-7 (P7A-NAP) abolished NAP neuroprotection but minimally changed the efficacy of NAP ethanol antagonism. In contrast, Ala replacement of Ile-6 (I6A-NAP) caused a decrease in potency (>2 logarithmic orders) with only a small reduction (<10%) in the efficacy of NAP neuroprotection but markedly reduced the efficacy (50%) and the potency (5 logarithmic orders) of NAP ethanol antagonism. Ethanol significantly reduced the number of paired somites in mouse whole-embryo culture; this effect was prevented significantly by 100 pM NAP or by 100 pM P7A-NAP, but not by 100 pM I6A-NAP. The structure-activity relation for NAP prevention of ethanol embryotoxicity was similar to that for NAP ethanol antagonism and different from that for NAP neuroprotection. These findings support the hypothesis that NAP antagonism of ethanol inhibition of L1 adhesion plays a central role in NAP prevention of ethanol embryotoxicity and highlight the potential importance of ethanol effects on L1 in the pathophysiology of fetal alcohol syndrome.
A microcapsule technique for long-term conduction block of the sciatic nerve by tetrodotoxin.	Tetrodotoxin (TTX) is a selective blocker of voltage-gated Na+ channels that is used to block action potentials in vitro and in vivo. Maintaining a sufficiently high local concentration of TTX in vivo to block conduction in a peripheral nerve is technically demanding and carries a risk of systemic toxicity. We report that slow diffusion of TTX out of a microcapsule (glass capillary) inserted beneath the epineurium of the sciatic nerve, with a loose cuff around the nerve, combines high blocking efficacy with low systemic toxicity in rats and mice. The local anaesthesia and motor paralysis was stable for at least 4-6 weeks. The conduction block was reversible and did not cause any obvious nerve injury. Low cost and simple surgical implementation make this new system an interesting alternative to existing long-term drug delivery methods.
Phosphorylation of sodium channels mediated by protein kinase-C modulates inhibition by topiramate of tetrodotoxin-sensitive transient sodium current.	Topiramate is a novel anticonvulsant known to modulate the activity of several ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels in neurons. The mechanism of action of topiramate, at a molecular level, is still unclear, but the phosphorylation state of the channel/receptor seems to be a factor that is able to influence its activity. We investigated the consequences of phosphorylation of the sodium channel on the effect of topiramate on tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive transient Na(+) current (I(NaT)).
Rat epileptic seizures evoked by BmK alphaIV and its possible mechanisms involved in sodium channels.	This study showed that rat unilateral intracerebroventricular injection of BmK alphaIV, a sodium channel modulator derived from scorpion Buthus martensi Karsch, induced clusters of spikes, epileptic discharges and convulsion-related behavioral changes. BmK alphaIV potently promoted the release of endogenous glutamate from rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes. In vitro examination of the effect of BmK alphaIV on intrasynaptosomal free calcium concentration [Ca(2+)](i) and sodium concentration [Na(+)](i) revealed that BmK alphaIV-evoked glutamate release from synaptosomes was associated with an increase in Ca(2+) and Na(+) influx. Moreover, BmK alphaIV-mediated glutamate release and ion influx was completely blocked by tetrodotoxin, a blocker of sodium channel. Together, these results suggest that the induction of BmK alphaIV-evoked epileptic seizures may be involved in the modulation of BmK alphaIV on tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels located on the nerve terminal, which subsequently enhances the Ca(2+) influx to cause an increase of glutamate release. These findings may provide some insight regarding the mechanism of neuronal action of BmK alphaIV in the central nervous system for understanding epileptogenesis involved in sodium channels.
Role of mast cells in ion transport abnormalities associated with intestinal anaphylaxis. Correction of the diminished secretory response in genetically mast cell-deficient W/Wv mice by bone marrow transplantation.	To investigate the role of mast cells in transport abnormalities during intestinal anaphylaxis, we examined responses to antigen in isolated intestinal preparations from ovalbumin-sensitized genetically mast cell-deficient WBB6F1-W/Wv (W/Wv) mice and congenic normal WBBGF1(-)+/+ (+/+) mice. Changes in ion transport (primarily secretion of chloride ions) were indicated by increases in short-circuit current (Isc). In tissues from +/+ mice, antigen caused increases in Isc which were significantly inhibited by antagonists to histamine (diphenhydramine) and serotonin (ketanserin), by a cyclooxygenase inhibitor (piroxicam) and by a neurotoxin (tetrodotoxin). In preparations from W/Wv mice, antigen-stimulated responses were approximately 30% of that in +/+ mice and were inhibited only by piroxicam. Responses to electrical transmural stimulation of nerves were approximately 50% in W/Wv versus +/+ mice, and were inhibited by antagonists of mast cell mediators in +/+ but not W/Wv mice. Reconstitution of mast cells in W/Wv mice by intravenous injection of +/+ bone marrow cells restored the normal responses to both antigen and nerve stimulation. Our results indicate that mast cell-dependent mechanisms are primarily responsible for the ion secretion associated with intestinal anaphylaxis, but that other cells are also involved. In addition, our data provide evidence for the functional importance of bidirectional communication between nerves and mast cells in the regulation of ion transport in the gastrointestinal tract.
Molecular evolution of Na+ channels in teleost fishes.	Voltage-dependent sodium channels are critical for electrical excitability. Invertebrates possess a single sodium channel gene; two rounds of genome duplication early in vertebrates increased the number to four. Since the teleost-tetrapod split, independent gene duplications in each lineage have further increased the number of sodium channel genes to 10 in tetrapods and 8 in teleosts. Here we review how the occurrence of multiple sodium channel paralogs has influenced the evolutionary history of three groups of fishes: pufferfish, gymnotiform and mormyriform electric fish. Pufferfish (tetraodontidae) produce a neurotoxin, tetrodotoxin, that binds to and blocks the pore of sodium channels. Pufferfish evolved resistance to their own toxins by amino acid substitutions in the pore of their sodium channels. These substitutions had to occur in parallel across multiple paralogs for organismal resistance to evolve. Gymnotiform and mormyriform fishes independently evolved electric organs to generate electricity for communication and object localization. Two sodium channel genes are expressed in muscle in most fishes. In both groups of weakly electric fishes, one gene lost its expression in muscle and became compartmentalized in the evolutionary novel electric organ, which is a muscle derivative. This gene then evolved at elevated rates, whereas the gene that is still expressed in muscle does not show elevated rates of evolution. In the electric organ-expressing gene, amino acid substitutions occur in parts of the channel involved in determining how long the channel will be open or closed. The enhanced rate of sequence evolution of this gene likely underlies the species-level variations in the electric signal.
Acute nigro-striatal blockade alters cortico-striatal encoding: an in vivo electrophysiological study.	Spreading of slow cortical rhythms into the basal ganglia (BG) is a relatively well-demonstrated phenomenon in the Parkinsonian state, both in humans and animals. Accordingly, striatal dopamine (DA) depletion, either acute or chronic, drives cortical-globus pallidus (GP) and cortical-substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) slow wave coherences in urethane-anesthetized rats. This paper investigates the striatal dynamics following acute DA depletion by tetrodotoxin (TTX) injection in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) with respect to the transmission of slow cortical rhythms throughout the BG in more detail. The acute DA depletion offers the advantage of detecting electrophysiological changes irrespectively of chronically developing compensatory mechanisms. We observed that the acute blockade of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway reshapes the firing rate and pattern of the different striatal neuron subtypes according to cortical activity, possibly reflecting a remodeled intrastriatal network. The observed alterations differ amongst striatal neuronal subtypes with the striatal medium spiny neurons and fast-spiking neurons being the most affected, while the tonically active neurons seem to be less affected. These acute changes might contribute to the diffusion of cortical activity to BG and the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). 
Ketamine increases striatal dopamine release and hyperlocomotion in adult rats after postnatal functional blockade of the prefrontal cortex.	Schizophrenia is a complex psychiatric disorder that may result from defective connectivity, of neurodevelopmental origin, between several integrative brain regions. Different anomalies consistent with brain development failures have been observed in patients' left prefrontal cortex (PFC). A striatal dopaminergic functional disturbance is also commonly acknowledged in schizophrenia and could be related to a dysfunctioning of dopamine-glutamate interactions. Non-competitive NMDA antagonists, such as ketamine, can induce psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals and worsen these symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. Our study set out to investigate the consequences of neonatal functional blockade of the PFC for dopaminergic and behavioral reactivity to ketamine in adult rats. Following tetrodotoxin (TTX) inactivation of the left PFC at postnatal day 8, dopaminergic responses induced by ketamine (5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg sc) were monitored using in vivo voltammetry in the left part of the dorsal striatum in freely moving adult rats. Dopaminergic responses and locomotor activity were followed in parallel. Compared to PBS animals, in rats microinjected with TTX, ketamine challenge induced a greater release of dopamine in the dorsal striatum for the highest dose (20 mg/kg sc) and the intermediate dose (10mg/kg sc). A higher increase in locomotor activity in TTX animals was observed only for the highest dose of ketamine (20 mg/kg sc). These data suggest transient inactivation of the PFC during early development results in greater behavioral and striatal dopaminergic reactivity to ketamine in adulthood. Our study provides an anatomo-functional framework that may contribute toward a better understanding of the involvement of NMDA glutamatergic receptors in schizophrenia.
Does palytoxin open a sodium-sensitive channel in cardiac muscle?	The effect of palytoxin (PTX) on transmembrane potentials and currents of frog atrial fibres was studied using the double sucrose gap technique. PTX irreversibly depolarized the membrane. This depolarization was reversed only when Na ions were removed from the Ringer solution and replaced by a non-permeant cation such as choline. The depolarization was tetrodotoxin (TTX) insensitive and a function of the external Na concentration. In voltage clamp experiments PTX induced the development of a large inward resting current which did not inactivate and was insensitive to ouabain and to a lowering of the temperature. PTX and ouabain did not share the same receptor. Dose-response curves indicated a stoichiometry of 2, which suggested the aggregation of 2 molecules of PTX to form a channel. The channel formed by PTX remained insensitive to TTX, 4 aminopyridine, tetramethyl-ammonium, Cs and Cd, the classical blockers of Na, K and Ca conductances. PTX reduced the Na current, but not the apparent reversal potential for Na ions. It was concluded that PTX might act on frog atrial fibres as a Na ionophore.
Protein-DNA interactions during phenotypic differentiation.	We have been studying the molecular mechanism of neuronal differentiation through which the multipotent precursor becomes limited to the final transmitter phenotype. Here we focused on the role of the 5' proximal regulatory cassette (-190; +53 bp) of the rat enkephalin (rENK) gene in the developmental regulation of the enkephalin phenotype. Several well characterized cis-elements, including AP2, CREB, NF1, and NFkB, reside on this region of the rENK gene. These motifs were sufficient to confer activity-dependent expression of the gene during neurodifferentiation when it was tested using transient transfection assays of primary developing spinal cord neurons treated with tetrodotoxin (TTX). This region was then used as a DNA probe in mobility shift assays, with nuclear proteins derived from phenotypically and ontogenetically distinct brain regions. Only a few low abundance protein-DNA complexes were detected and only with nuclear proteins derived from developing but not from adult brain. The spatiotemporal pattern of these complexes did not show correlation with enkephalin expression which was assessed by RT-PCR. We employed synthetic probes corresponding to consensus as well as ENK-specific sequences of the individual motifs to identify the nature of the observed bands. Although both consensus NF1 and enkCRE1(NF1) formed complexes with nuclear proteins derived from the striatum and cortex at various ages, the appearance of the bands was not correlated with ENK expression. Surprisingly, no complexes were detected if other ENK-specific motifs were used as probes. We also tested nuclear extracts derived from forskolin-induced and control C6 glioma cells, again using the whole proximal regulatory cassette as well as individual motifs. These experiments showed the formation of elaborate protein-DNA bands. There was no direct correlation between the appearance of bands and forskolin-induced ENK expression. Unexpectedly, all ENK-specific motifs formed specific and highly abundant protein-DNA complexes when nuclear extracts from the human tumor cell line (HeLa), which does not express ENK, were used. Based on these observations, we concluded that: 1. Interactions between the proximal regulatory cassette and additional probably far distant regions of the rENK gene and their binding proteins may be necessary to confer developmentally regulated, cell-specific expression of the ENK gene; and 2. Inducibility of the gene by common cis-elements can be governed by this region; however, the cell-specificity of the induction remains elusive.
Differential contribution of motor cortex and caudate nucleus to instrumental tongue-forelimb synchronization in rats: a functional ablation study.	The functional ablation technique was used to assess the role of motor cortex and caudate nucleus in a complex skilled movement. Rats were trained to synchronize tongue and forepaw movements in a drinking box equipped with a retractable spout which was automatically withdrawn after every lick but could be returned by pressing and releasing a lever placed 4 cm below the spout. The animals learned to perform short presses synchronized with the lick cycle in such a way as to allow continuous drinking. Neural circuits implementing these lick-associated instrumental movements were blocked by intracranial injection of 10 ng of tetrodotoxin. Bilateral blockade of the motor cortex interfered with lick-synchronized bar pressing, but did not significantly influence licking from a stationary spout. Both licking and bar-pressing were impaired by bilateral injection of tetrodotoxin into the lateral part of the caudate nucleus for the duration of the tetrodotoxin-induced inactivation of the target region. The instrumental tongue-forelimb synchronization recovered considerably later, i.e. after two to three days. Functional blockade of the medial part of the caudate nucleus caused only a partial impairment of lick-synchronized bar pressing lasting less than 7 h and did not significantly influence consummatory licking. It is concluded that the tongue-forepaw synchronization is disrupted by blockade of motor cortex or lateral caudate considerably longer than the performance of the isolated component movements.
Neural mediation of cholera toxin-induced mucin secretion in the rat small intestine.	We examined the role of enteric nerves in cholera toxin (CT)-induced mucin secretion in proximal and distal regions of rat small intestine. Stimulation of intestinal loops with 120 micrograms (1.5 mumol) CT using an in vitro open-loop model resulted in an approximately four-fold increase in luminal mucin content over unstimulated controls in both regions of the gut. Prior treatment of loops with tetrodotoxin had no effect on the amount of mucin released in response to CT. However, permanent destruction of primary sensory afferent nerves by neonatal treatment of rats with capsaicin reduced the mucin response to CT to baseline levels in both regions. In normal animals, atropine resulted in approximately 40% inhibition of mucin secretion in both the proximal and distal small intestine. The atropine-sensitive secretory response appears to be a component of the capsaicin-sensitive response. These results suggest that choleraic mucin secretion is mediated primarily by a capsaicin-sensitive neurogenic pathway involving local activation of sensory nerves, which may then elicit mucin secretion through interaction with cholinergic nerves.
