Application of the correlation constrained multivariate curve resolution alternating least-squares method for analyte quantitation in the presence of unexpected interferences using first-order instrumental data.	Correlation constrained multivariate curve resolution-alternating least-squares is shown to be a feasible method for processing first-order instrumental data and achieve analyte quantitation in the presence of unexpected interferences. Both for simulated and experimental data sets, the proposed method could correctly retrieve the analyte and interference spectral profiles and perform accurate estimations of analyte concentrations in test samples. Since no information concerning the interferences was present in calibration samples, the proposed multivariate calibration approach including the correlation constraint facilitates the achievement of the so-called second-order advantage for the analyte of interest, which is known to be present for more complex higher-order richer instrumental data. The proposed method is tested using a simulated data set and two experimental data systems, one for the determination of ascorbic acid in powder juices using UV-visible absorption spectral data, and another for the determination of tetracycline in serum samples using fluorescence emission spectroscopy.
Hepatorenal failure induced by tetracycline in dogs with portacaval shunt.	The aim of the present investigation was to determine whether tetracycline accelerated the hepatic toxicity of portacaval anastomosis and whether this could be reflected by changes in pharmacokinetics of the drug. Side-to-side portacaval shunts were constructed and converted to end-to-side by ligating the hepatic side of the portal vein in dogs. The results of this study showed that the i.v. infusion of tetracycline (50 mg/kg) to shunted animals caused rapid deterioration in hepatic and renal functions followed by the eventual transition of these animals from stage I to stage II liver disease. This was reflected by a 3- to 6-fold increase in the serum level of bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, serum glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase, blood urea nitrogen and creatinine as compared with the levels of those produced in serum of dogs before and after the construction of the shunt before the administration of tetracycline. Kinetic analysis revealed a significant prolongation in the elimination half-life (38.2 +/- 4.2 hr) of the shunted dogs as compared with controls (14.5 +/- 1.5 hr) after the i.v. administration of tetracycline. This was accompanied by an appreciable reduction of elimination rate constant. In contrast to shunted animals, control animals exhibited no behavioral side effects after the administration of tetracycline.
Distribution of tetracycline in red blood cells.	The distribution of tetracycline into human red blood cells was studied in vitro at 37 degrees. The drug was taken up rapidly by the cells, and its distribution equilibrium was reached after approximately 10 min of incubation. The steady-state distribution ratio of the drug between the red cells and extracellular fluid of 0.9% NaCl solution was 2.84, while the distribution ratio between the cells and the plasma solution was 0.9. The reduced cellular uptake in plasma was due to binding of the drug to plasma components. Calcium ions in plasma appeared to reduce tetracycline uptake by the red cells. The red cell distribution of tetracycline in dogs was in close agreement with the in vitro data using the washed human red cells. A dog suffering from severe hypoalbuminemia showed greater uptake of the drug by the erythrocytes, while a normal healthy dog exhibited the red cell-plasma distribution ratio of 0.98. The release rate of tetracycline from the preloaded cells into normal saline solution indicated that the release was directly proportional to the cellular concentration of the drug; the first-order release rate was approximately 1.38 hr-1.
Chemotherapy of an experimental Bacteroides fragilis infection in mice.	The efficacies of five common antimicrobial agents were determined for a pure Bacteroides fragilis infection in mice. Therapy was begun 4 h after bacterial injection and given every 8 h thereafter for 5 days. Blood levels were determined over an 8-h period for each concentration of antibiotic tested. Clindamycin and tetracycline were the most effective in preventing the formation of abscesses. Chloramphenicol, penicillin G, and cephalothin were not effective in protecting the mice from infection.
Bioavailability of tetracycline and doxycycline in fasted and nonfasted subjects.	The influence of various test meals and fluid volumes on the relative bioavailability of commercial formulations of doxycycline hyclate and tetracycline hydrochloride was studied in healthy human volunteers. Serum levels of tetracycline were uniformly reduced by approximately 50% by all test meals, whereas serum levels of doxycycline were reduced by 20%. The reduction of tetracycline serum levels will likely be of clinical significance. The bioavailability of each drug was almost identical from an oral solution and from capsules in fasted subjects. The rate of doxycycline absorption was reduced when capsules were administered with a small volume of water, but the overall efficiency of absorption of both drugs was essentially independent of co-administered fluid volume. The use of 8-h serum data provides a reliable estimate of drug bioavailability for tetracycline and, to a lesser extent, for doxycycline.
