Nightguard vital bleaching of tetracycline-stained teeth: 90 months post treatment.	The purpose of this longitudinal whitening study was to determine the stability, post-treatment side effects, and patient satisfaction at 90 months post treatment after 6 months of active treatment of tetracycline-stained teeth with 10% carbamide peroxide.
Trauma-induced cutaneous pigmentation from tetracycline: a case report.	Tetracycline is well known to cause pigmentation of various body tissues, such as teeth, bone, lunulae, conjunctivae, and lymph nodes. It has not been reported to cause discoloration of the skin, unlike its semisynthetic derivative, minocycline. We report an 18-year-old girl who developed lower extremity pigmentation in areas of trauma during treatment with tetracycline.
Mid-esophageal ulceration and candidiasis-associated distal esophagitis as two distinct clinical patterns of tetracycline or doxycycline-induced esophageal injury.	Tetracyclines may cause esophageal injury.
Clinical evaluation of 546 tetracycline-stained teeth treated with porcelain laminate veneers.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical result of 546 tetracycline-stained teeth restored with a porcelain laminate veneer system (Cerinate, Den-Mat, USA) for aesthetic reasons.
Quantitative in vitro assessment of phototoxicity by a fibroblast-neutral red assay.	We have adapted the neutral red uptake assay for quantitative assessment of injury to fibroblast cultures by potential phototoxins. Tetracycline derivatives, quinolone derivatives, and chlorpromazine were used as model compounds for development of the assay. Human fibroblasts were incubated with potential phototoxins, the cell cultures irradiated with UV, and the capacity for neutral red uptake determined. Demeclocycline and doxycycline, two known photosensitizers, showed a 94% and 95% decrease of neutral red uptake, respectively, indicating photo-induced cytotoxicity. Minocycline, a non-photosensitizing tetracycline derivative, showed no decrease in uptake. Tetracycline, a weak phototoxin, showed minor (10%) decrease at equivalent concentrations (20 micrograms/ml). Microscopic observation of neutral red uptake and cell damage paralleled the spectrophotometric findings. Chlorpromazine, a non-tetracycline phototoxin, showed 91% decrease. An additional group of phototoxic drugs, quinolone antibacterials, were studied. Nalidixic acid, ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, and norfloxacin all demonstrated phototoxicity, with nalidixic acid showing the greatest decrease in neutral red uptake. This methodology may provide a useful rapid method to quantify phototoxic potential of new drugs or suspected phototoxins.
Effect estimates and methodological quality of randomized controlled trials about prevention of alveolar osteitis following tooth extraction: a systematic review.	To systematically review the scientific evidence derived from randomized controlled trials (RCT) about prevention of alveolar osteitis (AO).
Green bone.	To describe the unusual finding of yellow-green-colored bone during routine orbital surgery, to detail its investigation, and to demonstrate its benign nature.
Calcium loss from root canal dentin following EDTA, EGTA, EDTAC, and tetracycline-HCl treatment with or without subsequent NaOCl irrigation.	The aim of this study was to determine the extent of calcium removal on root canal dentin after 17% EDTA, 17% EGTA, 15% EDTAC, and 1% tetracycline-HCl treatment; with or without subsequent use of 2.5% NaOCl. Extracted single-rooted human teeth were bisected longitudinally and the root halves (n=100) were isolated with nail varnish, leaving the root canal exposed. The samples were immersed in the test solutions for 1 and 5 minutes, after which the amount of calcium ion (Ca(2+)) release into the solutions was determined by flame photometry. Regardless of treatment time, all single (treatment solution only) and combined (treatment solution with subsequent NaOCl application) irrigation regimens removed significantly more Ca(2+) than control treatment (distilled water). Compared with other groups, treatment with 17% EDTA and 17% EDTA + 2.5% NaOCl resulted in the maximum amount of Ca(2+) removal from root canal dentin (p<0.05). All combined-treatment groups except 17% EGTA + 2.5% NaOCl removed significantly more Ca(2+) than their single-treatment versions (p<0.05). Within each test group, extending the treatment time to 5 minutes resulted in significantly more Ca(2+) removal (p<0.05).
Clinical analysis of colour distribution in tetracycline teeth]	To analyze the colour range and distribution of tetracycline teeth, and the difference from normal teeth.
Chief teratogenic factors in facial abnormalities]	Congenital anomalies of the face mainly originate in chromosomal and teratogenic factors. Cleft lip and cleft palate are common anomalies of the face and palate. Cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, occurs about once in 1000 births. Cleft palate occurs about once in 2500 births. Most cases of cleft lip and palate are determined by multiple factors, genetic and nongenetic, each causing only a minor developmental disturbance. This is called multifactorial inheritance. The purpose of this study is a review on teratogenic factors with action on the newborn face.
Myospherulosis. Complicating wound healing.	Myospherulosis is a complication of wound healing which results from an action between lipids and extravasated erythrocytes. A case of myospherulosis of the mandible is reviewed with its history, histopathology and occurrence.
Hepatoprotective effect of hepatophyt in experimental drug hepatitis]	The hepatoprotective action of Hepatophyt was studied on Wistar rats with experimental hepatitis caused by exposure of the animals to tetracycline. Hepatophyt was administered per os in a dose of 0.1 g/kg. Its significant pharmacotherapeutic action was due to the content of biologically active substances, mainly of polyphenol nature. As natural antioxidants, they provided stabilization of the biomembranes and increased the energetic potential of the hepatic cells and the contractile capacity of the pericanal microfilaments, thus stimulating the synthesis and transport of the cholates and excretion of bilirubin and cholesterol with bile.
Binding of the highly toxic tetracycline derivative, anhydrotetracycline, to bovine serum albumin.	Tetracycline (TC) derivatives are extensively used as antibiotics in human and animal medicine and, very recently, they have been screened as anti-amyloidogenic drugs. Anhydrotetracycline (AHTC) is one of the major degradation products of TC that has been linked to several side effects of the drug. We evaluated the interaction of AHTC with bovine serum albumin (BSA), one of the main carriers of amphiphilic molecules in blood, using three complementary analytical methods: fluorescence spectroscopy, isothermal titration calorimetry and differential scanning calorimetry. AHTC bound to BSA with an association constant in the order of 10(5) M(-1). Drug binding was enthalpically and entropically driven and seemed to involve hydrophobic interactions. AHTC fluorescence enhancement and hypsochromic shifts observed upon binding suggested a low-polarity location excluded from water for the bound drug. Our data are useful for evaluating the biodisponibility of the pharmacophore and the dynamic distribution of the toxic derivative.
Impact of rehabilitation with metal-ceramic restorations on oral health-related quality of life.	Dental ceramics present excellent ability to reproduce the natural teeth regarding esthetic and biomechanics. Recently, due to the advancement of ceramic technology, metal-free restorations were developed. However, the traditional metal-ceramic restorations still present the requirements of high strength, long survival in the oral environment and favorable aesthetics. In this context, it is essential to know the specificity of each ceramic system available in order to apply it properly to various clinical situations. This report describes an integrated rehabilitation using metal-ceramic restorations of a patient at 50 years of age, who presented edentulous spaces, and previous unsatisfactory composite and amalgam restorations, and indirect metallic restorations, leading to compromised quality of life in both functional and psychosocial aspects. The impact on quality of life was measured using a generic instrument, OHIP-14, validated for the World Health Organization, which covers both the biological and the psychosocial dimensions. This instrument was applied to the patient before and after treatment. The patient had an overall OHIP-14 score of 28 before the treatment and after treatment the score decreased to 0, showing that dental and oral health conditions are factors that do impact on the quality of life. Rehabilitation has provided functional and aesthetic restorations, harmony of the stomatognathic system and improvement of life quality.
Intracavitary bleomycin and tetracycline in the management of malignant pleural effusions: a randomized study.	Both bleomycin and tetracycline have been suggested as the sclerosing agent of choice in the management of malignant pleural effusions. To determine if one drug is superior to the other in this role, patients with malignant pleural effusions were randomly assigned to receive either bleomycin or tetracycline in the previously evacuated pleural space through a thoracostomy tube. Following instillation of the assigned agent, the tube was clamped for 8 hours and then reattached to suction. When the chest tube drainage had slowed to less than 40 ml in a 24-hour period or if 7 days had passed, the tube was removed. Pleural sclerosis was attempted 42 times in 34 patients. No statistically significant differences were found between the two treatment groups when prevention of effusion reaccumulation and time to removal of the chest tube (efficiency) were compared. Side effects including pleural pain and fever, occurred with both agents, but were manageable. Since one drug was not clearly superior to the other, and bleomycin is more costly, we suggest that tetracycline rather than bleomycin be used when pleural sclerosis is needed to manage malignant pleural effusions.
Tetracycline photo-onycholysis.	Photo-onycholysis is a rare complication of tetracycline therapy. Its occurrence is probably greater than the few reported cases indicate. It is hoped that this case report will alert physicians to its occurrence.
Electron microscopy of abnormal secretory products of rat incisor ameloblasts in tetracycline-induced lesions.	Lesions were created in the incisor enamel organs of adult rats by a single dose of tetracycline, and the secretory products in these lesions were examined with the transmission electron microscope. The following abnormal products were found: 1) circumscribed areas of a mottled uncalcified material within the enamel; 2) an uncalcified material consisting of tubules with dimensions similar to the crystal coat of normal enamel, 3) spherical calcified masses which at their periphery resemble normal enamel; 4) layers of a basal lamina-like material in the extracellular spaces between Tomes' processes, and an attachment site-like modification of the cell borders next to this material. It is suggested a) that the enamel tubule is a primary secretory product of the ameloblast; in normal enamel it would support the growth of the crystal; b) that, in the lesion, enamel can grow by diffusion of precursors from distant ameloblasts, while rat enamel normally grows only in direct contact with the ameloblast cell membrane.
Tetracycline-induced pancreatitis.	A 21-year-old man developed acute pancreatitis on two separate occasions after a short-term course (less than 10 days) of tetracycline in the presence of normal liver and renal function. Although tetracycline is frequently listed as a cause of pancreatitis, this is only the second documented case of tetracycline-induced pancreatitis in an otherwise healthy person. We review the pertinent literature.
Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic therapy - an emerging entity.	Two cases of pseudomembranous colitis are presented. The first patient had been treated with novobiocin-tetracycline and penicillin, and two weeks later developed severe fulminating diarrhea with ascites and bilateral pleural effusions which did not respond to intravenous ACTH. Subsequently she underwent subtotal colectomy and made a rapid and complete recovery. The second patient developed severe diarrhea two weeks after a 10-day course of clindamycin. She was treated with intravenous ACTH, oral Lactobacillus and a fecal enema and made a complete recovery.These cases reconfirm the importance of antibiotics as etiologic agents in this disease. They also stress the classic sigmoidoscopic and histologic findings that should facilitate prompt and rapid diagnosis.
Photo-onycholysis due to tetracycline-hydrochloride.	A case of monosymptomatic photo-onycholysis due to tetracycline-hydrochloride is reported. A 40-year-old woman with rosacea had been treated with tetracycline-hydrochloride (Achromycin) 250 mg daily for 3 years. In the summer period after one month of intensive sun exposure she developed painful bullae under the nails.
Tetracycline and benign intracranial hypertension: report of five cases.	Benign intracranial hypertension occurred in four young women taking tetracycline for acne; two were also taking vitamin A. In a fifth case a 14-year-old boy developed papilloedema after taking a short course of tetracycline for bronchitis. All symptoms disappeared soon after stopping the drugs, though in two cases the papilloedema persisted for many months. Benign intracranial hypertension should be sought in any young woman complaining of headache during treatment with tetracycline. Moreover, young women given vitamin A and tetracycline in combination for acne may be at special risk and should be kept under surveillance.
