Light sensitivity of the ciliate Tetrahymena vorax induced by the fluorescent dye acridine orange.	The ciliate Tetrahymena vorax is normally insensitive to light. However, after uptake of acridine orange, blue light evokes instant backward swimming. The dye accumulates mainly in posterior vacuoles, with half-maximal uptake after 1 min. Illumination for 10 s induced a depolarisation of approximately 15 mV lasting less than 2 s, followed by a sustained hyperpolarisation of approximately 20 mV. Deciliated cells displayed a similar response. The hyperpolarisation was linked to reduced membrane resistance, showed a reversal potential of approximately -55 mV and was blocked by 1 mmol l(-1) TEA. The rate of rise of electrically evoked Ca(2+)-spikes was reduced during the hyperpolarisation, which is compatible with elevated cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration. This suggests that the hyperpolarisation may be caused by activation of Ca(2+)-sensitive K(+) channels. The depolarisation was abolished in Ca(2+)-free medium, whereas the hyperpolarisation was unaffected. Illumination for 2 s, or prolonged stimulation restricted to the anterior part of the cell, induced depolarisation only. Illumination of the posterior part caused delayed hyperpolarisation with no preceding depolarisation. We conclude that the induced backward swimming is associated with Ca(2+) influx through anterior channels, while Ca(2+) released from intracellular stores activates K(+) channels responsible for the delayed hyperpolarisation.
Parametrization of electrophilicity for the prediction of the toxicity of aromatic compounds.	The aim of this study was to determine which descriptor best parametrized the electrophilicity of aromatic compounds with regard to their acute toxicity. To achieve this, toxicity data for 203 substituted aromatic compounds containing a nitro- or cyano group were evaluated in the 40-h Tetrahymena pyriformis population growth impairment assay. Quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) were developed relating toxic potency [log(IGC(50)(-1))] with hydrophobicity quantified by the 1-octanol/water partition coefficient (log P) and electrophilic reactivity quantified by the molecular orbital parameters, either the energy of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (E(LUMO)) or maximum acceptor superdelocalizability (A(max)) was developed. For the full data set, E(LUMO) and A(max) were collinear (r = 0.87). A comparison of the QSARs [log(IGC(50)(-1)) = 0.40 log P - 0.94E(LUMO) - 1.27; n = 203, r(2) = 0.60, s = 0.49, F = 151] and [log(IGC(50)(-1)) = 0.37 log P + 13.1A(max) - 4.30; n = 203, r(2) = 0.70, s = 0.42, F = 237] reveals A(max) to be the better electrophilic parameter for modeling these data. Analysis of outliers indicates a preponderance of 4-subsituted nitrophenols and nitroanilines. Smaller datasets (51 and 102 compounds) selected in order to reduce the collinearity between A(max) and E(LUMO) were also evaluated. Results indicate A(max) to be the superior descriptor of electrophilicity for the purpose of toxicological QSARs for aromatic compounds. Development of QSARs using partial least-squares yielded similar results.
Tetrahymena metallothioneins fall into two discrete subfamilies.	Metallothioneins are ubiquitous small, cysteine-rich, multifunctional proteins which can bind heavy metals.
A mutation in the large subunit ribosomal RNA gene of Tetrahymena confers anisomycin resistance and cold sensitivity.	Anisomycin, an antibiotic that specifically inhibits the peptidyl transfer function of eukaryotic ribosomes, has been used to select resistant mutants in Tetrahymena thermophila. A mutation conferring anisomycin resistance (an-r) has been localized to a 1.2-kb fragment of the large subunit ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene by transformation via microinjection. A single base pair change was detected within this region. Nine independently isolated an-r mutants had the same base pair change. T. thermophila strains that are homozygous for this mutation are cold sensitive, unable to mate and grossly abnormal in cell morphology.
The study of molecular mechanisms of action of natural amino acids and serotonin on adenylyl and guanylyl cyclases of the ciliates]	It has been previously shown that some amino acids and their derivatives are capable of regulating the activity of adenylyl cyclase (AC) and guanylate cyclase (GC) in free-living ciliates Dileptus anser and Tetrahymena. The aim of this work was to study the molecular mechanisms of action of methionine, tyrosine, alanine and neurohormone serotonin on the activity of enzymes-cyclases and the identification of their specific receptors in D. anser and T. pyriformis. Methionine and serotonin significantly increased the basal AC activity in both ciliates, and the AC effect of serotonin in T. pyriformis was carried out with the participation of Ca2+-dependent form of AC and heterotrimetic G proteins. AC stimulating effect of tyrosine and alanine was expressed weakly and only detected in D. anser. Serotonin is both ciliates and alanine in D. anser stimulated GC activity, whereas methionine and tyrosine had no effect on GC. Methionine and serotonin bind to surface receptors of the ciliates with high affinity. K(D) for [methyl-3H] methionine binding to D. anser and T. pyriformis were 7.5 and 35.6 nM, and for [3H] serotonin binding were 2.7 and 4.7 nM, respectively. Alanine and tyrosine bind to the ciliates with low affinity. Thus, ciliates D. anser and T. pyriformis have chemosignaling systems regulated by amino acids and their derivatives and including the enzymes with cyclase activity. There is an assumption that these systems are similar to hormonal signaling systems of higher eukaryotes and are their predecessors.
Effect of glucose on the insulin production and insulin binding of Tetrahymena.	As the unicellular ciliate, Tetrahymena has insulin receptors and produces insulin itself, which can regulate its glucose metabolism and other cell functions, in the present experiments the feed-back, the effect of glucose on the insulin binding and insulin production was studied. The cells were kept partly in tryptone-yeast medium, partly in Losina salt solution. The duration of treatment (in 0.1, 1.0, 10.0 mg/ml glucose) in the binding study was 10 min, in the hormone production study 30 min. FITC-insulin binding was significantly decreased only by 0.1 mg/ml glucose treatment in medium and by 10 mg/ml glucose in salt. The insulin production was significantly lower only in cells treated with 10 mg/ml glucose in medium. The insulin binding in salt was always higher and the insulin production always lower, than in medium. Earlier results demonstrated that the hormonal system (presence of hormones, receptors and signal pathways) of higher ranked animals can be deduced to a unicellular level, however, the feed-back mechanism is not really present here, only the traces can be observed in these protozoa.
A new approach to radial basis function approximation and its application to QSAR.	We describe a novel approach to RBF approximation, which combines two new elements: (1) linear radial basis functions and (2) weighting the model by each descriptor's contribution. Linear radial basis functions allow one to achieve more accurate predictions for diverse data sets. Taking into account the contribution of each descriptor produces more accurate similarity values used for model development. The method was validated on 14 public data sets comprising nine physicochemical properties and five toxicity endpoints. We also compared the new method with five different QSAR methods implemented in the EPA T.E.S.T. program. Our approach, implemented in the program GUSAR, showed a reasonable accuracy of prediction and high coverage for all external test sets, providing more accurate prediction results than the comparison methods and even the consensus of these methods. Using our new method, we have created models for physicochemical and toxicity endpoints, which we have made freely available in the form of an online service at http://cactus.nci.nih.gov/chemical/apps/cap.
Characteristics of basal body cartwheel reassembly.	Cartwheel complexes reassembled in a fraction derived by treating isolated oral apparatuses from Tetrahymena with 1.0 M KCl for 12 h. Approximately 40% of the KCl-soluble protein reassembled into cartwheel complexes. The reassembly reaction was protein-concentration dependent, and reassembled cartwheels were stable at 3 degrees C. Sucrose gradient centrifugation resolved 3 high molecular mass protein complexes from the KCl-soluble fraction. Each of the 3 complexes has a different mass, but each contains the same 5 polypeptides, 2 of which are probably tubulins. When these complexes were removed from the KCl-soluble fraction by high speed centrifugation, cartwheel reassembly did not occur. The 5 polypeptides in the high molecular mass complexes were among several other polypeptides resolved from reassembled cartwheels by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The high molecular mass complexes are probably essential for cartwheel formation. The electrophoretic data also show that several polypeptides in the KCL-soluble fraction do not appear to be incorporated into cartwheels. These polypeptides are probably non-essential for cartwheel formation.
Taxon-dependence of receptor level cell-to-cell communication in Tetrahymena: possible explanation for the transmission of hormonal imprinting.	Insulin treatment induced in Tetrahymena pyriformis a positive hormonal imprinting, and in Tetrahymena thermophila a negative imprinting, resulting in increased and decreased binding capacity, respectively, at re-exposure to the hormone. The imprinting, or the information associated with it, is transferred by the nutrient medium of the insulin-treated cells to those not treated. The issue of transfer depends on the nature of the receiver taxon, leading always to a positive imprinting in Tetrahymena pyriformis, and to a negative imprinting in Tetrahymena thermophila, regardless of the nature of the 'imprinted' transmitter taxon. The findings substantiate the transferability of hormonal imprinting by the nutrient medium at the unicellular level, the key role of the postreceptorial mechanism in determining the trend of imprinting and may explain the persistence of imprinting in the progeny generations.
Effect of inhibition of endocytosis, recycling and lysosomal activity on the insulin binding capacity and imprintability of Tetrahymena.	Dinitrophenol (DNP), an inhibitor of endocytosis of hormone receptors, Tris, an inhibitor of recycling and chloroquine, an inhibitor of lysosomal degradation, all decreased the binding of insulin and inhibited the development of hormonal imprinting in Tetrahymena. The effects of DNP and Tris seemed to be similar even quantitatively. The effect of chloroquine proved to be somewhat different, it appeared later, was more pronounced after 24 hours and more marked when insulin was also administered. Combined administration of Tris + DNP inhibited the binding of insulin but this inhibition was the one which disappeared most completely after 24 hours and the one where the inhibition of imprinting was the most pronounced. Tris + chloroquine led to severe destruction of the cells. The conclusion has been drawn that the inhibition of membrane circulation inhibits not only the hormone binding but also the development of imprinting in Tetrahymena.
Role of middle mass molecules in the pathogenesis of endotoxicosis in peritonitis]	Under examination there were 107 patients with diffuse peritonitis in its different phases. The relationship of clinical manifestations of endotoxicosis and middle mass molecules in the blood was established. One of the causes of the development of endotoxic shock in peritonitis is found to be an instant release of highly toxic substances (middle mass molecules included) from the microcirculation bed. The most effective means of detoxication of the organism include: intraoperative sanitation of the abdominal cavity with the elimination of the infection source, drainage of the small intestine with enterosorption, forced diuresis, hemo- and lymphosorption.
Molecules and morphologies: the perpetuation of pattern in the ciliated protozoa.	Three apparently conflicting generalizations concerning the relationships between molecules and cell structure may be derived from studies on cellular patterning in the ciliates. (A) Cells with identical genes and molecular composition may have different hereditary patterns. (B) Genes, through their prescribed molecular derivatives, constrain the modes of pattern permutation and define the states of greatest stability. (C) Cells with identical hereditary patterns may have entirely different genes and molecular compostitons. These priniciples may be reconciled through the recognition that they are characteristically applicable over different time intervals. Hereditary differences within a clone and without related molecular differences (principle A) may persist for hundreds of cell generations, but they are resolved eventually within a constant environment (principle B) as the configuration of minimal free energy is approached. On an even longer time scale, molecular substitutions have occurred for many or most components of the cell, but these have been constrained by selective pressures on an ancient design (principle C) that disallow substitutions affecting certain form-function relations which have been elevated to an adaptive peak.
Isolation and ultrastructural characterization of secretory mutants of Tetrahymena thermophila.	Isolation of 14-secretory mutants (exo-) of Tetrahymena thermophila and ultrastructural characterization (freeze-fracture and thin-section) of two of these (SB255 and SB258) are described. The site of secretion is marked by an intramembrane particle array, the rosette, beneath which the secretory organelle rests. Using Alcian Blue (8GS) as a secretagogue, a screening procedure for exo- cells was developed. Of the resulting 14 clones isolated, 10 are stable and have a tight mutant phenotype. Two of these, SB255 and SB258, lack assembled rosettes. Electron microscopy shows that SB255 has a reduced total number of mucocysts, whereas SB258 appears to have the normal number. This study demonstrates a useful eukaryotic model with which to study by genetic dissection the regulatory mechanisms involved in membrane events in secretion.
Mechanism-based comparisons of acute toxicities elicited by industrial organic chemicals in procaryotic and eucaryotic systems.	Comparisons of toxicities elicited by nonpolar and polar narcotics, weak acid uncouplers of oxidative phosphorylation, and bioreactive chemicals between the eucaryotic systems Pimephales promelas and Tetrahymena pyriformis and the procaryotic systems Escherichia coli and Photobacterium phosphoreum were performed. Each chemical had been a priori assigned a mechanism/mode of action based on the results from previous studies with eucaryotic systems. Hydrophobicity-dependent QSARs for nonpolar narcosis for both the E. coli and the P. phosphoreum endpoints was developed. However, due to the lack of a significant relationship between P. phosphoreum toxicity and log Kow, such a QSAR for polar narcosis was developed only for the E. coli endpoint. Except for 4-nitroaniline (the only chemical in the examined group that required activation to become the Michael receptor), all chemicals containing reactive substructures revealed excess toxicity over polar narcosis QSAR for E. coli endpoints. Moreover, chloroacidic acid and ethyl chloroacetate in this system also appear to be bioreactive. The only mechanism that seemed to not exist in the procaryotic system was uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. Chemicals from this group, except 2,4-dinitroaniline, did not exhibit excess toxicity over polar narcosis QSAR. This was thought to be explained by the lack of mitochondria in procaryotes, the target site of uncoupling agents in eucaryotes. In addition, evaluation of toxicities of halogen-substituted short-chain carboxylic alcohols indicated that their mechanisms vary, depending upon the type of substitution and the system.
Pharmacological characterization of an opioid receptor in the ciliate Tetrahymena.	A pharmacological characterization has been performed of the opioid receptor involved in modulation of phagocytosis in the protozoan ciliate Tetrahymena. Studies on inhibition of phagocytosis by mammalian prototypic opioid agonists revealed that morphine and beta-endorphin have the highest intrinsic activity, whereas all the other opioids tested can only be considered partial agonists. However, morphine (a mu-receptor agonist) is twice as potent as beta-endorphin (a delta-receptor agonist). Furthermore, the sensitivity for the opioid antagonist naloxone, determined in the presence of morphine and beta-endorphin, is very similar to the sensitivity exhibited by mammalian tissues rich in mu-opioid receptors. We suggest that the opioid receptor coupled to phagocytosis in Tetrahymena is mu-like in some of its pharmacological characteristics and may serve as a model system for studies on opioid receptor function and evolution.
