Long-term outcome after total correction of tetralogy of Fallot in adolescent and adult age.	Although most patients with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) undergo radical repair during infancy and childhood, patients remaining undiagnosed and untreated until adulthood can still be treated. These patients have either a previous palliative or natural collateral circulation to the lung or a mild form of right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) obstruction. The aim of this study is to analyze the perioperative and long-term results of radical corrective procedures in patients who reached adult ages. Two hundred and seven patients with TOF underwent complete correction between 1985-and 2002, 64 (30.9%) of whom were aged 14 years or more. The mean age at corrective repair for this group was 20.6 +/- 7.5 years (range 14 to 49 years). Only two patients had previous modified Blalock-Taussig shunts. In 44 patients (68.7%) besides infundibular resection, a transannular gluteraldehyde-treated pericardial patch was used to reconstruct right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). Only infundibular patching was used in 15 patients (23.4%) and infundibular muscular resection with primary closure of right ventricle was performed in five patients (7.8%). Hospital mortality was 3.1% with two patients. Four patients (6.2%) underwent reoperation because of recurrent ventricular septal defect (VSD) with/without residual obstruction or pulmonary regurgitation. All survivors were in NYHA class I (42) or II (17). Late mortality was recorded in two patients and 16-year actuarial survival was 89.2%+/- 4.9%. The significant negative predictors of late survival determined by univariate analysis were reoperation <0.018) and associated cardiac anomalies <0.011). Multivariate analysis showed that there was no negative predictor of late-term mortality. Corrective procedures in adult patients with TOF can be performed successfully compared to patients who underwent operation during infancy and childhood.
25-year mortality after surgical repair of congenital heart defect in childhood. A population-based cohort study.	To determine long-term survival and the cause of death after repair of one of eight congenital heart defects in childhood.
Late results of surgery for congenital heart defects.	Surgery for congenital heart defects started 50 years ago with "closed" procedures, and open heart surgery is in its forth decade. Thus, long-term results are now available. Although a majority of patients lead normal lives, problems do exist. Hemodynamic anomalies can be related to residual lesions or to persistent systemic hypertension (after coarctation repair) or pulmonary hypertension (after late repair of left to right shunt lesions). Right or left ventricular dysfunction may be observed, due to longstanding overload, hypoxia or to the open heart procedure itself. Rhythm disturbances have a tendency to increase with the passage of time after surgery. After ventricular surgery (repair of ventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot), conduction defects and ventricular arrhythmias are prevalent. They may lead to late sudden death. After atrial surgery, sinus node dysfunction and atrial arrhythmias are observed. Problems related to growth of the patient exist essentially in cases where foreign material (conduits, prostheses) have been implanted. Many patients, with definitive repair or palliative operation, have become adults. This is a new challenge for the adult cardiologist, and it is a duty of the pediatric cardiologist to hand over his knowledge of this pathology.
Longevity of neonatal ductal stenting for congenital heart diseases with duct-dependent pulmonary circulation.	Ductal stent (DS) in duct-dependent pulmonary circulation is less morbid than neonatal Blalock-Taussig shunt. However, there is concern if DS provides an adequately long palliation before definitive repair.
Survival, functional status, and reoperations after repair of tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia.	Among 139 patients who underwent repair of tetralogy with pulmonary atresia, survival rates at 1 month and at 1, 5, 10, and 20 years were 85%, 82%, 76%, 69%, and 58%, respectively. The hazard function (instantaneous risk of dying) was greatest immediately after operation and declined thereafter, but a low constant hazard persisted for as long as the patients were followed up. Multivariately, the postrepair ratio between peak right ventricular and left ventricular pressures measured in the operating room provided the most information relative to the probability of death after repair, and cardiopulmonary bypass time the next. When morphologic abnormalities of the pulmonary circulation were considered in the multivariate analysis for risk factors for death, the size of the pulmonary arteries provided the most information, followed by the number of large aortopulmonary collateral arteries. The postrepair peak right ventricular/left ventricular pressure ratio was lower the day after operation than in the operating room in 65% of the patients in whom the measurements were made. Recurrent or residual ventricular septal defects necessitating rerepair occurred in four patients (3% of hospital survivors). Most surviving patients were in New York Heart Association class I at the time of follow-up.
Risk factors in surgical correction of congenital heart defects in early childhood.	The technique of surface-induced hypothermia, circulatory arrest and limited extracorporeal circulation was used in the surgical correction of congenital heart defects in 125 young children. Hospital mortality was 18% and no death could be attributed to the surgical technique. An analysis of risk factors demonstrated that successful corrective surgery was not significantly related to age, body weight or pulmonary vascular obstructive disease. In transposition of the great arteries, the presence of a ventricular septal defect was associated with an increased mortality. Emergency operations performed because of severe hypoxaemia carried a high mortality, especially in patients with tetralogy of Fallot.
The management of tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia and diminutive pulmonary arteries.	Since September 1991, 14 consecutive patients with tetralogy of Fallot, pulmonary atresia, and diminutive pulmonary arteries have undergone staged repair. All patients had multiple aortopulmonary collateral arteries and the ductus arteriosus was absent in 11. Mean sizes of the right and left pulmonary arteries were 2.2 +/- 0.7 mm and 1.9 +/- 0.8 mm, respectively (range 0.5 to 3.0 mm). Eight patients (57%) have subsequently received complete repair. Age at initial procedure (shunt, right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduit, or direct aorta-pulmonary artery anastomosis) in this group was 5.3 +/- 6.8 months. The number of operative procedures to achieve complete repair was 2.9 +/- 0.8 per patient (range 2 to 4). Intraoperative postrepair peak right ventricle-left ventricle pressure ratio was 0.57 +/- 0.17. Six of 8 patients (75%) required additional interventional procedures (mean 1.5 +/- 1.2 per patient) for angioplasty of peripheral pulmonary artery stenoses, coil embolization of aortopulmonary collateral arteries, or intra-operative insertion of intravascular pulmonary artery stents. Mean follow-up from complete repair was 8.7 +/- 8.3 months (range 0.5 to 23.8 months) and is complete. There was one in-hospital death at 45 days, and one late cardiac death at 20.3 months. Six patients had initial palliative operations (unifocalization, right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduit, direct aorta-pulmonary artery anastomosis, or transannular outflow patch) but have not undergone complete repair. Age at initial procedure in this group was 27.9 +/- 56.9 months (range 0.27 to 155 months), and mean follow-up from initial procedure was 10.9 +/- 11.2 months (range 0 to 31.4 months). The operative mortality rate was 33% (2 of 6 patients). There was one late noncardiac death at 5.3 months. Three patients are awaiting further intervention or repair. This experience suggests that complete repair is feasible even in patients with extremely diminutive pulmonary arteries (< or = 3.0 mm). Pulmonary artery growth is facilitated by early (3 to 6 month) establishment of central pulmonary artery flow by right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduit (pulmonary arteries > 1.5 mm) or by direct ascending aorta-pulmonary artery anastomosis (pulmonary arteries < 1.5 mm). Subsequent interventional catheterization and operative procedures as required for pulmonary artery stenoses and coil embolization of collateral arteries allow continued recruitment of central pulmonary arteries and may obviate or minimize the need for unifocalization procedures.
Surgery for tetralogy of Fallot at less than six months of age.	Absence of consensus persists regarding the optimal procedure and timing for the surgical treatment of young infants with symptomatic tetralogy of Fallot. From 1987 through 1992, 56 patients with tetralogy of Fallot were operated on at less than 6 months of age. Forty-one patients (median age 2.9 months) underwent primary repair and 15 (median age 2.4 months) underwent initial palliation. Mean follow-up was 24.2 +/- 16.4 months. No strict protocol was used but patients who received initial palliation were younger, had a smaller pulmonary arterial tree, or had anomalous coronary artery. Two patients died (overall mortality 3.6%; 95% confidence limits 0% to 11%), one after initial palliation (6.7%), and one after primary repair (2.4%) (P = 0.47). Eight of the 15 patients who received initial palliation underwent repair and had an increase in pulmonary anulus size at the time of definitive repair (mean difference Z-value = 2.2 +/- 1.6 standard deviation; p = 0.006). Transannular patch was required in 50% of patients who underwent repair (56% among patients having primary repair versus 13% for patients having initial palliation; P = 0.03). Five patients underwent reoperation. Early primary repair of symptomatic tetralogy of Fallot was achieved with a low mortality rate and is the preferred protocol. Initial palliation remains indicated in case of associated cardiac anomaly, very low weight, or severely hypoplastic pulmonary artery tree.
Tetralogy of Fallot: intracardiac repair in 840 subjects.	Since 1967, when the first intracardiac repair was performed in this centre, until 1991, 840 symptomatic subjects with tetralogy of Fallot have undergone corrective surgery. Cardiac catheterization and angiocardiography were carried out in all patients. Cardinal findings on the clinical status of these subjects are outlined. A substantial number of patients (244; 29.0%) were > 15 years of age. Historically, a transannular pericardial gusset has been utilized in 578 (68.8%), and in 423 (93.0%) during the past decade. The incidence of residual interventricular septal defects has been 0.68% and occurrence of complete heart block after surgery 0.4%. Death occurred in 86 patients (10.2%) within 30 days of operation and later in 40 subjects (4.8%). Long-term results have been excellent with good haemodynamic status in > 90% of subjects in the follow-up period. Associated features including absent pulmonary valve, absent left pulmonary artery, and previous palliative shunts did not alter the outcome; however, a raised haematocrit (> 0.65) was associated with an increased mortality rate.
Long-term results of the gamma-irradiation-preserved homograft monocusp for transannular reconstruction of the right-ventricular outflow tract in tetralogy of Fallot.	The long-term results of a consecutive series of transannular gamma-irradiated homograft monocusp patches in tetralogy of Fallot were studied. Seven survivors out of 8 patients are doing clinically well after a mean of 22.4 years of follow-up, 5 of them being in New York Heart Association class I and 2 in class II. In one patient the completely calcified gamma-irradiated homograft monocusp patch was replaced 15 years after intracardiac repair. Echocardiographic investigation at the end of follow-up of the remaining 6 patients with a gamma-irradiated homograft monocusp patch in situ showed mild pulmonary regurgitation in 1, moderate regurgitation in 3, and severe regurgitation in 2. Residual pulmonary stenosis was present in 4 patients (gradients ranging from 10 to 40 mmHg). Right-ventricular dilatation was present in all patients. In the long-term the gamma-irradiated transannular homograft monocusp patch behaves like a simple transannular patch.
An evaluation of surgical correction in tetralogy of Fallot. A study of 101 cases]	The optimal management of infants with tetralogy of Fallot continues to evolve. We review our series to evaluate the results.
Transatrial-transpulmonary repair of atrioventricular septal defect with right ventricular outflow tract obstruction.	Twenty patients had a repair of an atrioventricular septal defect with tetralogy of Fallot (n = 13) or double outlet right ventricle (n = 7). Mean age was 3.5 years. Surgical technique included transatrial-transpulmonary resection of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction and transatrial two patch repair of the atrioventricular septal defect. Ten patients required a transannular patch and one patient had a right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduit placed. There was no hospital mortality, and mean hospital stay was 15 days. One patient had late sudden death of unknown cause. Six patients have required reoperation because of residual ventricular septal defect (VSD), mitral incompetence, residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and/or conduit stenosis. No patient was reoperated on because of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Fifteen patients are asymptomatic, one has exertional dyspnea, and two have intermittent occasional bronchospasm. The transatrial-transpulmonary two patch repair and extensive relief of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction have given good immediate results. Reoperation rate has been high mainly due to residual VSD and mitral incompetence.
