Cell cycle-dependent expression of gamma-tubulin in the amicronuclear ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis.	In ciliates, different microtubular structures are nucleated from diverse Microtubule Organizing Centers (MTOCs). gamma-Tubulin is a tubulin superfamily member that plays an essential role in microtubule nucleation at the MTOCs. However, little is known about mechanisms regulating the activity of gamma-tubulin on different MTOCs and during the cell cycle. In Tetrahymena thermophila, the alpha- and beta-tubulin expression is regulated mainly at the transcriptional level, and changes in the ratio of polymerized/unpolymerized tubulin dimers lead to an increase or decrease of alpha- and beta-tubulin transcription. This study deals with the characterization of gamma-tubulin in the amicronuclear ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis. Sequence analysis revealed some specific substitutions in nucleotide-binding loops characteristic of the Tetrahymena genus and putative conserved phosphorylation sites located on the external surface of the gamma-tubulin molecule. gamma-Tubulin expression during the cell cycle, in the presence of microtubular poisons and after deciliation, was also characterized. We found that gamma-tubulin mRNA levels are correlated with basal body proliferation and gamma-tubulin nuclear localization. We also found that gamma-tubulin expression changes during anti-microtubular drugs treatment, but does not changes during reciliation. These findings suggest a relationship between the level of unpolymerized tubulin dimers and gamma-tubulin transcription.
A biological sensor platform using a pneumatic-valve controlled microfluidic device containing Tetrahymena pyriformis.	In this study, we introduce a microfluidic device equipped with pneumatically actuated valves, generating a linear gradient of chemoeffectors to quantify the chemotactic response of Tetrahymena pyriformis, a freshwater ciliate. The microfluidic device was fabricated from an elastomer, poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS), using multi-layer soft lithography. The components of the device include electronically controlled pneumatic microvalves, microchannels and microchambers. The linear gradient of the chemoeffectors was established by releasing a chemical from a ciliate-free microchamber into a microchamber containing the ciliate. The ciliate showed chemotactic behaviours by either swimming toward or avoiding the gradient. By counting the number of ciliates residing in each microchamber, we obtained a precise time-response curve. The ciliates in the microfluidic device were sensitive enough to be attracted to 10 pmol glycine-proline, which indicates a 10(5) increase in the ciliate's known sensitivity. With the use of blockers, such as DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APPA) or lanthanum chloride (LaCl3), we have demonstrated that the NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) receptor plays a critical role in the perception of chemoeffectors, whereas the Ca2+ channel is related to the motility of the ciliate. These results demonstrate that our microfluidic chemotaxis assay system is useful not only for the study of ciliate chemotaxis but also for a better understanding of the signal transduction mechanism on their receptors.
Is Cyclin Zeuthen's "division protein"?	Biochemical evidence is presented for the presence of cyclin in Tetrahymena. Zeuthen previously postulated the existence of a heat-labile "division protein" to explain heat-shock-induced division synchrony in Tetrahymena [(1964) Synchrony in Cell Division and Growth (Zeuthen, E., Ed.), pp. 99-158, Interscience, New York]. We show that cyclin is heat-labile in Tetrahymena and suggest that cyclin may be Zeuthen's division protein. Cyclin and cell cycle control is of interest in Tetrahymena because the division mechanism drives macronuclear amitosis, closed and acentric micronuclear mitosis, and cortical differentiation in this cell type.
Gravitational sensitivity of eukaryotic unicellular organisms]	Unicellular organisms are viewed as the best suitable objects for studying environmental effects, including the field of gravity, on living beings at the cellular level. Investigations of unicellular free-living eukaryotic organisms in gravitational and space biology help resolve both theoretical problems and practical problems associated with the design and development of biological life support systems. This paper presents experimental data about the effect of hypergravity on the structure, function and behavior of unicellular organisms--Tetrahymena pyriformis and Euglena gracilis. They were centrifuged at a rate of 87, 108 or 142 rpm to produce acceleration of 2, 3 or 5 G. The following parameters were measured: time course variations in the culture growth, rate of biomass accumulation, cell shape and size. It was found that as the gravity level grew from 2 to 5 G the culture growth was first stimulated and then inhibited. Biomass accumulation as well as the cell size and volume of Tetrahymena pyriformis and Euglena gracilis also decreased. It was demonstrated that the functional activity of cells was inversely proportional to the gravity magnitude. Potential mechanisms of the effect of hypergravity on the cell structure and function are discussed.
Arsenate toxicity and stress responses in the freshwater ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis.	The arsenic metabolism in different biological organisms has been studied extensively. However, little is known about protozoa. Herein, we investigated the cell stress responses of the freshwater ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis to arsenate toxicity. An acute toxicity assay revealed an 18-h EC(50) arsenate concentration of ca. 40 μM, which caused significant changes in the cell shape, growth and organism mobility. Whereas, under exposure to 30 μM arsenate, T. pyriformis could grow reasonably well, indicating a certain resistance of this organism. Arsenic speciation analysis revealed that 94-98% of the total arsenate in cells of T. pyriformis could be transformed to monomethylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid and a small proportion of arsenite after 18 h of arsenate exposure, thus indicating the major detoxification pathway by arsenic oxidation/reduction and biomethylation. Finally, comparative proteomic analysis unveiled significant changes in the expression of multiple proteins involved in anti-oxidation, sugar and energy metabolism, proteolysis, and signal transduction. Our results revealed multiple pathways of arsenate detoxification in T. pyriformis, and indicated that protozoa may play important roles in the biogeochemical cycles of arsenic.
Heat shock dependent fluctuations of RNase activity during the cell cycle of synchronized Tetrahymena.	The total cellular acid RNase activity per milliliter of culture increases sharply following each heat shock in the cell cycle of Tetrahymena pyriformis ST synchronized with heat shocks spaced one generation time apart. Thus, the RNase activity per 10(5) cells is 24.5 units immediately after the end of the sixth heat shock, increases to 39.0 units during the following 55 minutes and decreases to 24.2 units at the start of the seventh heat shock. No change in the RNase activity occurs during the heat shock period. In logarithmically growing cells the RNase activity per 10(5) cells is 15.4 units. The heart shock stimulates the increase in the RNase activity, since no rapid increase occurs during the free running division cycle but a rapid increase occurs after an additional heat shock given at different times during the cell cycle. Inhibition of the increase in RNase activity by cycloheximide suggests that concurrent protein synthesis is required for the stimulation of the RNase activity by the heat shock treatment.
Potassium transport from Infusoria Tetrahymena pyriformis GL, immobilized by accelerations of 80-260 g]	The effects of direct influence of gravity on a cell have been studied. Potassium transport from infusoria. Tetrahymena pyriformis GL induced by the high gravitational levels which immobilize the cell (80, 140, 260 g) was examined. A minimum acceleration level at which the cells become motionless is 80 g. Kinetics of potassium output can be described as containing "fast" and "slow" component. The rate of potassium output relating to fast component does not depend on an acceleration level but is a function of the age and density of culture. The potassium output rate associated with slow component increases as acceleration is increased. It also rises in the course of time which points to a change of internal structure of the cells occurring the more rapidly the higher level of acceleration is. Direct effect of gravity on the cell is realized by two ways: 1) effect which results from difference of densities of cell and its environment; 2) effect on intracellular structures due to difference of their densities. It is supposed that the observed effects in main are being developed at the cost of a 2nd type of gravity effect.
