Differential expression and cross-regulatory function of RANTES during mycobacterial (type 1) and schistosomal (type 2) antigen-elicited granulomatous inflammation.	The role of RANTES in Th1 and Th2 cell-mediated immune responses has been enigmatic. To approach this question, we analyzed RANTES expression and function in murine models of types 1 and 2 cell-mediated pulmonary granulomas elicited with Mycobacterium bovis or Schistosoma mansoni egg Ag-coated beads, respectively. Compared with type 2, type 1 lesions had up to 4-fold greater RANTES protein and mRNA production. Type 1 draining lymph nodes also produced up to 7-fold higher levels of RANTES. Anti-RANTES Ab treatments had opposite effects, decreasing type 1 lesion area by 25% and augmenting type 2 lesions by 50%. The latter was associated with increased IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13 production by lymph nodes. Infusion of rRANTES (1 mg/kg/day) did not affect type 1 lesions, but reduced type 2 lesion area by 27% and eosinophils by 40%. Lymph node cultures from RANTES-treated mice had augmented type 1 and impaired type 2 responses. In vitro, RANTES caused selective, dose-related inhibition of IL-4 that was largely dependent on CCR1 receptors. In conclusion, RANTES plays different roles in types 1 and 2 granuloma formation, promoting the former and mediating cross-regulatory inhibition of the latter. Moreover, RANTES may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of established type 2 hypersensitivity.
Altered memory T cell differentiation in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis.	The chronic immune response in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) might be driven by activated Th1 cells without sufficient Th2 cell differentiation to down-modulate inflammation. To test whether disordered memory T cell differentiation contributes to the typical Th1-dominated chronic inflammation in RA we investigated differentiation of resting CD4+ memory T cells in patients with early (6 wk to 12 mo) untreated RA and in age- and sex-matched healthy controls in vitro. No difference in cytokine secretion profiles of freshly isolated memory T cells was detected between patients and controls. A cell culture system was then employed that permitted the differentiation of Th effectors from resting memory T cells by short term priming. Marked differences were found in response to priming. Th2 cells could be induced in all healthy controls by priming with anti-CD28 in the absence of TCR ligation. By contrast, priming under those conditions resulted in Th2 differentiation in only 9 of 24 RA patients. Exogenous IL-4 could overcome the apparent Th2 differentiation defect in seven patients but was without effect in the remaining eight patients. In all patients a marked decrease in IL-2-producing cells and a significant increase in well-differentiated Th1 cells that produced IFN-gamma but not IL-2 were evident after priming with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28. The data suggest that CD4+ memory T cells from patients with early untreated RA manifest an intrinsic abnormality in their ability to differentiate into specific cytokine-producing effector cells that might contribute to the characteristic Th1-dominated chronic (auto)immune inflammation in RA.
Studies with double cytokine-deficient mice reveal that highly polarized Th1- and Th2-type cytokine and antibody responses contribute equally to vaccine-induced immunity to Schistosoma mansoni.	A fundamental obstacle to vaccine development in schistosomiasis mansoni is a lack of understanding of what type of an immune response should be invoked. We have addressed this central issue by using the radiation-attenuated cercariae vaccine in mice genetically engineered to exhibit highly polarized type 1 (IL-10/IL-4-deficient) or type 2 (IL-10/IL-12-deficient) cytokine and Ab phenotypes. Our data show that while significant differences in immunity exist after a single vaccination with irradiated cercariae in double cytokine-deficient vs wild-type mice, these differences disappear after two vaccinations. The most important finding of these studies, however, was revealed in vaccinated IL-10-deficient mice. These mice developed a mixed and elevated type 1- and type 2-associated immune response and developed anti-schistosome immunity at levels equal to or better than those in wild-type mice. This immunity in IL-10-deficient mice correlated with higher parasite-specific Ab titers, greater proliferative capacity of lymphocytes, increased frequency of IFN-gamma- and IL-4-secreting cells, elevated perivascular/peribronchial inflammatory responses in the lung, and greater in vitro schistosomulacidal capacity of parasite Ag-elicited cells. These results suggest that optimal vaccine-induced immunity against schistosomes is linked not to the development of a highly polarized response, but, rather, to the induction of both type 1- and type 2-associated immune responses.
Induction of Th-1 and Th-2 responses by respiratory syncytial virus attachment glycoprotein is epitope and major histocompatibility complex independent.	In BALB/c mice, sensitization to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) attachment (G) glycoprotein leads to the development of lung eosinophilia upon challenge infection with RSV, a pathology indicative of a strong in vivo induction of a Th-2-type response. In this study, we found that a strong, RSV G-specific, Th-1-type cytokine response occurred simultaneously with a Th-2-type response in G-primed mice after RSV challenge. Both Th-1 and Th-2 effector CD4(+) T cells recognized a single immunodominant site on this protein, implying that the differentiation of memory CD4(+) T cells along the Th-1 or Th-2 effector pathway was independent of the epitope specificity of the T cells. A similar observation was made in G-primed H-2(b) haplotype mice after RSV challenge, further suggesting that this process is not dependent on the peptide epitope presented. On the other hand, genes mapping to loci outside of the major histocompatibility complex region are crucial regulators of the development of a Th-2-type response and lung eosinophilia. The implication of these findings for the immune mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of RSV is discussed.
Infection of mice with Mycobacterium bovis-BCG induces both Th1 and Th2 immune responses in the absence of interferon-gamma signalling.	A murine pulmonary infection model using Mycobacterium bovis-BCG was used to study the development of Th1 and Th2 type responses in mice lacking a functional IFN-gamma receptor (IFN-gamma R-/-). Strikingly, the IFN-gamma R-/- mice maintained the Th1 response and developed a profound M. bovis-BCG, specific Th2 type immune response characterized by IL-5-producing CD4+ T cells, eosinophil infiltration of granulomas, and significantly elevated serum IgE levels. The increase in IL-5 production and eosinophil recruitment into the lung could be detected within the first 1-2 weeks of infection, indicating that the Th2 response was not due to greatly enhanced bacterial numbers observed later in infection. These results clearly indicate that IFN-gamma acts during M. bovis-BCG infection to suppress the development of Th2 immune responses. Furthermore, they demonstrate that IFN-gamma is not a necessary cofactor in the development of Th1 type cells secreting IFN-gamma. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that IFN-gamma plays a major role in suppressing a potentially disease-promoting Th2 immune response during mycobacterial infections.
Systemic delivery of an adenovirus expressing EBV-derived vIL-10 in mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni or Leishmania amazonensis: controversial effects on the development of pathological parameters.	Within the context of microorganism/host interactions, those which last over weeks are expected to be sensitive to more or less sustained and targeted immuno-intervention, such as delivery of cytokines known to operate as down-regulators of acute inflammatory processes. IL-10 has received growing attention as a potential tool in immunotherapy, due to its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Therefore, using two experimental models of long-term interactions between parasites and laboratory mice, we monitored some effects of the systemic delivery of an adenovirus (Ad) expressing EBV-derived IL-10 (vIL-10) designated Ad-vIL-10. We first monitored the vIL-10 serum level following intranasal, intraperitoneal, intramuscular and intravenous administration. The i. p. and i.v. delivery of Ad-vIL-10 allowed a high serum level of vIL-10 (= 100 ng/ml), the i.v. route leading to a more sustained expression (up to 3 weeks). As a first model of parasite/mouse interaction, Schistosoma mansoni/C57Bl/6 mouse was selected. Ad-vIL-10 delivery was performed 4 weeks after S. mansoni infection i.e. at the time of egg-laying, and several parameters were monitored: (i) number of adult worms in the mesenteric vein, (ii) number of eggs trapped in the liver and intestine, (iii) liver fibrosis, (iv) serum levels of egg-reactive antibody subclasses, (v) serum content of cytokines, and (vi) cytokine production in the supernatant of antigen-stimulated mesenteric lymph node cells. No apparent effect was observed, either on the different parasitological parameters or on fibrosis development at day 70 of infection. Surprisingly, a marked increase in both Th1 and Th2 type cytokines was observed in the sera of the Ad-vIL-10 injected animals, as well as in the supernatants of their Ag-stimulated mesenteric lymph node cells. Nevertheless, polarization of the humoral response towards a Th2 profile was demonstrated by an increase in the IgE level in the Ad-vIL-10-injected animals. As far as the second model is concerned, namely the Leishmania amazonensis /C57Bl6 mouse interactions, Ad-vIL-10 was delivered intravenously one day before subcutaneous injection of stationary promastigotes and footpad swelling was monitored over 110 days. Under these conditions, vIL-10 exhibited a biphasic effect, decreasing the lesion size at the early stages of infection, but leading to a more pronounced lesion size during the chronic phase. This observation suggests a deactivation of the macrophage host cells under the influence of vIL-10. The results are discussed in the context of immunotherapy and the paradoxical effects observed in immunointervention with vIL-10.
Adoptively transferred late allergic response is inhibited by IL-4, but not IL-5, antisense oligonucleotide.	We have shown previously that the late airways response (LAR) can be transferred by ovalbumin-primed CD4(+) T lymphocytes in Brown Norway rats. This response is associated with an increase of eosinophils and high expression of TH2 cytokines (IL-4 and IL-5) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid.
The transcription factor c-Maf controls the production of interleukin-4 but not other Th2 cytokines.	IL-4 promotes the differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells into IL-4-producing T helper 2 (Th2) cells. Previous work provided suggestive but not conclusive evidence that the transcription factor c-Maf directed the tissue-specific expression of IL-4. It was not known whether c-Maf controlled the transcription of other Th2 cytokine genes. To elucidate the role of c-Maf in vivo, we examined cytokine production in mice lacking c-Maf (c-maf(-/-)). CD4+ T cells and NK T cells from c-maf(-/-) mice were markedly deficient in IL-4 production. However, the mice produced normal levels of IL-13 and IgE, and, when differentiated in the presence of exogenous IL-4, c-maf(-/-) T cells produced approximately normal levels of other Th2 cytokines. We conclude that c-Maf has a critical and selective function in IL-4 gene transcription in vivo.
Dysregulation of B7.2 (CD86) expression on monocytes of HIV-infected individuals is associated with altered production of IL-2.	T helper (Th) responses are mediated in part by immunoregulatory cytokines and the signals delivered by the costimulatory CD28-B7 pathway. In this study, we have investigated the relationship between the regulation of B7 isoform expression on antigen-presenting cells from HIV+ individuals and the production of Th cytokines. The level of expression of both B7.1 and B7.2 isoforms as measured by mean channel fluorescence was significantly decreased on freshly isolated monocytes from HIV+ individuals compared with HIV- controls. However, the levels of expression of B7.1 and B7.2 on both B cells and monocytes increased significantly following culture in HIV+ individuals compared with HIV- controls. B7 expression is subject to regulation by immunoregulatory cytokines. Therefore, we analysed the regulation of B7 expression by cytokines, namely IL-10 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), the production of which is enhanced in HIV infection and have similar inhibitory effects on B7 expression. Two groups of HIV+ individuals were distinguished on the basis of the inhibitory effect of IL-10 and TNF-alpha on monocyte B7.2 expression. IL-10 inhibited B7.2 expression on monocytes from some HIV+ individuals (termed responders) like the HIV- controls. However, in a subset of HIV+ individuals (non-responders) this inhibitory effect was lost. Loss of inhibition of B7.2 expression by IL-10 was associated with significantly reduced IL-2 production by phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)- stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). These observations showing an association of B7 dysregulation on monocytes and B cells with altered production of IL-2 may have implications in HIV immunopathogenesis.
Anti-idiotype immunomodulation of experimental anti-phospholipid syndrome via effect on Th1/Th2 expression.	Mice with experimental anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS), induced by active immunization with a human anti-cardiolipin MoAb (H-3), were treated with mouse anti-idiotypic MoAb (anti-H3, named S2.9) and with an irrelevant anti-idiotype. The immunized mice produced high titres of mouse anti-cardiolipin antibodies along with clinical manifestations of experimental APS: prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), thrombocytopenia and high rate of fetal loss. Treatment with the specific anti-Id (S2.9) as a whole molecule or F(ab)2 fraction, resulted in a decrease in serum levels of the anti-cardiolipin antibodies, rise in platelet count, shortened aPTT and reduced rate of fetal loss. The anti-Id effect was associated with a rise in the number of IL-2 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-secreting cells (Th1) and reduction in IL-4- and IL-6-secreting cells (Th2). The beneficial effect of the anti-Id treatment in mice with experimental APS induced by active immunization with an idiotype further supports the idiotypic aetiology of experimental APS and points to the role of Th1 cytokines in suppression of its manifestations.
Change in the Th1/Th2 phenotype of memory T-cell clones from rheumatoid arthritis synovium.	The stability of established memory T helper (Th)1/Th2 cells in chronic inflammatory diseases is not clear, and a shift of the cytokine balance could control chronic inflammation. In order to study the regulation of the Th phenotype of memory T cells, polyclonal T-cell lines and clones with a Th1, Th0 or Th2 phenotype were developed from rheumatoid synovial tissue. Th1 [interleukin (IL)-12 + anti-IL-4] and Th2 (IL-4 + anti-IL-12) promoting environments and IL-2 were used to manipulate the cytokine profile. Polyclonal T-cell lines of predominantly Th1 type could be shifted to produce Th2 cytokines, and polyclonal Th2/Th0 lines could be shifted to produce Th1 cytokines. However, this shift was due to an amplification of CD8+ T cells with a memory phenotype and a loss of the CD4+ T cells, giving Tc2 or Tc1 profiles, respectively. Th2 clones cultured repeatedly with IL-2 switched to either a Th0 or a Th1 phenotype, while both Th1 and Th0 memory clones kept a stable phenotype. Addition of Th2-promoting conditions strongly reduced the production of both interferon-gamma and IL-17, while Th1-promoting conditions increased the production of these cytokines. These results demonstrate that RA Th2 clones readily switch, while Th1 and Th0 clones are stable. However, induction of Th2 cytokines can be obtained in polyclonal polarized memory T cells due to amplification of Tc2 cells.
Diet modulates Th-1 and Th-2 cytokine production in the peripheral blood of lupus-prone mice.	Calorie restriction or fish oil extends life span. To investigate the potential mechanism(s) involved, young (4-month) and old (9-month) NZB x NZW(F1) mice were fed 5% (w/w) corn oil (CA) or fish oil (FA) ad libitum or 40% restricted (CR and FR, respectively). Peripheral blood T-lymphocytes were analyzed for Th-1 (IL-2, IFN-gamma) and Th-2 (IL-5, IL-10) production. CR and FA partially blunted while FR completely abolished the decline in aged CD4+ T lymphocytes. In contrast, both CR and FR abolished the decline in CD8+ T lymphocytes with age, while FA had no effect. In aged mice, both CR and FR blunted the increase in Th-1 (IL-2, IFN-gamma) cytokine production, while FA was only partially effective. Only FR completely blunted the age-related increase in Th-2 (IL-5, IL-10) cytokine production. These data suggest that FR delays the onset of autoimmune kidney disease by suppressing both Th-1 and Th-2 cytokine production.
The systemic immune response of BALB/c mice infected with larval Taenia crassiceps is a mixed Th1/Th2-type response.	The subsets of lymphocytes and cytokines regulating the site-specific immune response in experimental cysticercosis (Taenia crassiceps) are not known. This study investigated the cells present at the site of infection (PECs) using flow cytometry and measured the cytokines produced by these cells through 50 days of infection. The results showed an expansion of B220+CD5+, B220+CD5-, alpha beta TCR+CD4+ and CD8+ cells coincident with a transient increase in IL-10 production. After the initial increase, the percentage of B220+CD5- and helper T cells decreased with a concomitant decrease in IL-10 production. CD8+ T cells continued to increase throughout infection and gamma delta TCR+ cells increased after 10 days of infection. PECs demonstrated an increased IFN-gamma and IL-4 production throughout infection when stimulated with larval antigens. Because a Th2-type polarization has been shown for spleen cells from infected BALB/c mice, cytokine profiles of spleen cells and PECs in response to ConA and larval antigens were compared. ConA and antigen-specific stimulation of spleen cells from 50-day-infected mice produced increased amounts of IL-10 while PECs showed a decreased IL-10 production suggesting that anatomically distinct lymphoid populations produce different cytokines and promote different types of responses. Surprisingly, late in infection the levels of IL-4 and IFN-gamma in serum increased substantially (460-fold and 100-fold, respectively). The systemic immune response of BALB/c mice during experimental cysticercosis, therefore, is a mixed Th1/Th2-type response.
Oral administration of hot water extracts of Chlorella vulgaris reduces IgE production against milk casein in mice.	Hot water extract of Chlorella vulgaris (CVE) is a biological response modifier (BRM) which enhances resistance to Listeria monocytogenes through augmentation of helper T cell type 1 (Thl) responses producing gamma-interferon (gammaIFN). We show here that oral administration of CVE in mice suppressed the production of immunoglobulin (Ig)E against casein antigen accompanied by increased gammaIFN and IL-12 mRNA expression. Oral administration of CVE enhanced Thl response to casein in the spleen of casein immunized mice. CVE may be useful for prevention of allergic diseases with a predominant Th2 response.
IL-12 receptor beta2 and CD30 expression in paranasal sinus mucosa of patients with chronic sinusitis.	The aetiology of chronic sinusitis is still poorly understood. The expression of T-helper 1 (Th1) and T-helper 2 (Th2) cell markers, interleukin (IL)-12 receptor beta2 subunit (IL-12Rbeta2) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and CD30, respectively, were investigated in the paranasal sinus mucosa of patients with chronic sinusitis in an attempt to elucidate the involvement of Th1 and Th2 cells in this disease. Anterior ethmoidal mucosae were surgically obtained from two groups of patients with chronic sinusitis: those who had allergic rhinitis (allergic group, n=11) and those without allergy (nonallergic group, n=11). IL-12Rbeta2 mRNA was quantified by means of the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and CD30-positive cells were examined immunohistochemically. Both IL-12Rbeta2 mRNA and CD30 were expressed in the sinus mucosa of the allergic and nonallergic groups. The proportion of mononuclear cells which were CD30-positive in the sinus mucosa was significantly greater in the allergic than in the nonallergic group. The expression levels of IL-12Rbeta2 mRNA were virtually equivalent in both groups. These results suggest a T-helper 2-dominated mucosal reaction in the allergic compared to the nonallergic group, and indicate T-helper 1 activity in the sinus mucosa of both groups. The ubiquity of T-helper 1 cells suggests that they play a role in maintaining local mucosal defences against foreign antigens, which continually enter the upper respiratory tract.
Th cells and Th2 responses can develop in the absence of MHC class II-CD4 interactions.	In this paper, we address the question whether CD4 and MHC class II expression are necessary for the development of the T helper lineage during thymocyte maturation and for activation-induced Th2 responses. To bypass the CD4-MHC class II interaction requirements for positive selection and activation, we used mice that are doubly transgenic for CD8 and for the MHC class I-restricted TCR F5. This transgene combination leads to MHC class I-dependent maturation of CD4 lineage cells. Upon activation, these CD4 lineage T cells secrete IL-4 and give help to B cells but show no cytotoxic activity. Remarkably, neither MHC class II nor CD4 expression are necessary for the generation and helper functions of these cells. This suggests that under normal conditions, coreceptor-MHC interactions are necessary to ensure the canonical combinations of coreceptor and function in developing thymocytes, but that they do not determine functional commitment. Our results also imply that expression of the CD4 gene does not influence, but is merely associated with the decision to establish the T helper program. In addition, we show that activation through TCR-MHC class I interactions can induce Th2 responses independently of CD4 and MHC class II expression.
Pancreatic IL-4 expression results in islet-reactive Th2 cells that inhibit diabetogenic lymphocytes in the nonobese diabetic mouse.	When immunological tolerance breaks down, autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas can cause insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. We previously showed that transgenic nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice expressing IL-4 in the pancreas (NOD-IL-4 mice) were protected from insulitis and diabetes. Here we have characterized the avoidance of pathological autoimmunity in these mice. The absence of disease did not result from a lack of T cell priming, because T cells responding to dominant islet Ags were present. These islet Ag-specific T cells displayed a Th2 phenotype, indicating that Th2 responses could account for the observed tolerance. Interestingly, islet Ag-specific Th1 T cells were present and found to be functional, because neutralization of the Th2 effector cytokines IL-4 and IL-10 resulted in diabetes. Histological examination revealed that NOD-IL-4 splenocytes inhibited diabetogenic T cells in cotransfer experiments by limiting insulitis and delaying diabetes. Neutralization of IL-4 in this system abrogated the ability of NOD-IL-4 splenocytes to delay the onset of diabetes. These results indicate that IL-4 expressed in the islets does not prevent the generation of pathogenic islet responses but induces islet Ag-specific Th2 T cells that block the action of diabetogenic T cells in the pancreas.
Oral tolerance by a high dose OVA in BALB/c mice is more pronounced and persistent in Th2-mediated immune responses than in Th1 responses.	Oral administration of antigen induces an antigen-specific immunologic tolerance and many studies are being carried out to apply this phenomenon to the treatment of autoimmune diseases. In this study, we investigated long-term Th1 and Th2 tolerance in mice given a high dose of orally administered Ovalbumin (OVA). Feeding OVA to BALB/c mice suppressed OVA-specific IgG response and the degree of inhibition was dose-dependent in the range of 2.5-250 mg. Moreover, the state of tolerance established by prior feeding of high dose of OVA was present after 26 weeks. Interestingly, even though both Th subsets were tolerized significantly for a short period, the tolerizing effect was more pronounced and persistent in Th2-mediated immune responses. Thus we speculate that oral administration of a single high dose of OVA induces Th1- and Th2-tolerance by different mechanisms. Our findings could be important in the development of therapeutics for the treatment of autoimmune disease and allergy.
Early rheumatoid arthritis is associated with diminished numbers of TH1 cells in stimulated peripheral blood.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has been associated with an altered TH1/TH2 balance. Here we present first results with a technique to quantitate stimulated TH1 and TH2 subsets in whole blood by means of cytofluorimetric detection of intracytoplasmic TH1 and TH2 cytokines. A group of 10 patients suffering from initial stages of RA exhibited a significantly reduced percentage of TH1 cells (11.0 +/- 2.0%) in the peripheral blood as compared to 13 healthy, age matched controls (28.8 +/- 2.0%). The TH2 response, as determined by intracellular expression of IL-4, remained unchanged. The data may indicate a defect in the TH0-TH1 differentiation or/and a selective trapping of TH1 cells into the affected joints.
The adjuvant combination monophosphoryl lipid A and QS21 switches T cell responses induced with a soluble recombinant HIV protein from Th2 to Th1.	The induction of protective immunity with recombinant vaccines is dependent on the identification of adjuvant or delivery systems that can augment immune responses, especially cellular immune responses, to soluble protein antigen. In this study we demonstrate that an adjuvant formulation comprising QS21, a purified form of saponin and 3D-monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), a nontoxic derivative of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), enhances cellular and humoral immune responses to a recombinant HIV protein. Analysis of cytokine secretion by antigen-specific T-cells from the spleen demonstrated that QS21 augmented Th1 and Th2 responses, whereas addition of 3D-MPL resulted in preferential induction of type 1 T-cells. Furthermore, analysis of the subclass of the IgG antibody in the serum in mice immunized with gp120 with the combined adjuvant formulation confirmed the selective activation of Th1 cells in vivo. 3D-MPL was found to enhance B7-1 expression and IL-12 production by macrophages, which are known to be involved in the LPS-induced enhancement of Th1 responses. Thus 3D-MPL appears to act as an adjuvant, without the toxicity associated with LPS, by controlled and selective potentiating effects on antigen presentation and T-cell activation.
Vaccination with different HSV-1 glycoproteins induces different patterns of ocular cytokine responses following HSV-1 challenge of vaccinated mice.	We previously reported that vaccination of BALB/c mice with different baculovirus expressed HSV-1 glycoproteins induced varying degrees of protection against HSV-1 ocular challenge, ranging from complete protection to no protection, to exacerbation of eye disease. To correlate specific local immune responses with protection and exacerbation of corneal scarring, we examined immune cell infiltrates in the cornea after ocular HSV-1 challenge of vaccinated mice. Mice were vaccinated with gD, which completely protects against corneal scarring, gG, which produces no protection against corneal scarring, or gK, which exacerbates corneal scarring. Cryostat sections of cornea were taken at different times after challenge and examined for infiltrating cells containing IL-2, IL-4, IFN-gamma, IL-6, or TNF-alpha. No corneal infiltrates were seen before challenge or 1 day after ocular challenge in any groups. By days 3-7, many cells containing IL-4 and IFN-gamma, but few cells containing IL-2, had infiltrated into the corneas of gG or mock vaccinated mice. At the same times, many cells containing IL-2, but few cells containing IL-4 or IFN-gamma, were seen in the corneas of gD vaccinated mice. In contrast, the corneas of mice vaccinated with gK contained large amounts of IL-2, IFN-gamma, and IL-4. Our results suggest that: (1) corneas from gD vaccinated mice had no corneal disease and developed a response highly biased toward IL-2 responses; (2) corneas from gG or mock vaccinated eyes had significant corneal disease and developed a mostly IL-4 and IFN-gamma cytokine response; and (3) corneas from gK vaccinated mice had exacerbated corneal disease and developed strong IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-gamma cytokine responses.
Recombinant Lactobacillus plantarum inhibits house dust mite-specific T-cell responses.	Recent evidence suggests that chronic exposure to lactobacilli, which are part of the normal intestinal flora, inhibits the development of allergic disorders. Allergy is mediated by Th2 cells, which produce high levels of IL4 and IL5, and suppressive effects of lactic acid bacteria on the development of allergy have been attributed to their Th1-inducing properties. On the other hand, lactic acid bacteria have also been shown to suppress autoimmune disorders which are mediated by Th1 cells producing high levels of IFNgamma. To study this apparent discrepancy, the immunomodulatory potential of lactobacilli was evaluated using recombinants that express an immunodominant T-cell epitope of Der p 1 of house dust mites. Mucosal immunization of C57BL/6 J mice with such recombinants resulted in the induction of T cells which produced low amounts of IFNgamma. Immunization with the house dust mite peptide followed by treatment with recombinant Lactobacillus plantarum resulted in the inhibition of both IFNgamma and IL5 production. The effect on IFNgamma production was shown to be a non-specific effect of L. plantarum. The effect on IL5 production, however, was only observed when the recombinant expressing the Der p 1 peptide, but not the control recombinant, was used for treatment. Neither of the recombinants had an effect on the antibody response. Taken together, these data suggest that recombinant L. plantarum may be a suitable candidate for the treatment of allergic disorders.
Alveolar macrophages of allergic resistant and susceptible strains of rats show distinct cytokine profiles.	Brown Norway rats are widely used as a model of asthma, whereas Sprague Dawley rats do not develop allergic reactions under the same conditions. Given the importance of alveolar macrophages (AM) in down-regulating cellular immune responses in the lung, we postulated that the different susceptibilities in the development of airway allergic reactions in these rat strains may be related to functional differences in their AM. We investigated the production of important mediators in asthma, namely tumour necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin-10 (IL-10), IL-12, IL-13, nitric oxide (NO) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), by AM of unsensitized Sprague Dawley and Brown Norway rats. AM were purified by adherence and stimulated with OX8 (anti-CD8 antibody) or LPS. OX8 stimulation significantly increased the release of TNF, IL-10 and NO in both strains of rats, whereas MIP-1alpha and IL-12 release were increased in Brown Norway rats only. Interestingly, stimulated AM from Sprague Dawley rats released significantly more TNF and less IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, MIP-1alpha and NO compared with AM from Brown Norway rats. These differences were also observed at the mRNA level, except for TNF. Thus, AM from Brown Norway and Sprague Dawley rats are functionally different. Furthermore, LPS- and OX8-stimulated AM from Brown Norway rats produce more Th2 type cytokines (IL-10 and IL-13) than AM from Sprague Dawley rats, suggesting that these cells may play an important role in creating a cytokine milieu that may favour the development of allergic reactions.
West African donors have high percentages of activated cytokine producing T cells that are prone to apoptosis.	Persistent immune activation has been suggested to affect the subset composition and activation status of peripheral blood cells. In this study we have compared peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from a group of Ghanaians living in an area with high prevalence of malaria, mycobacteria, EBV and helmintic infections to a group of European counterparts. Our hypothesis was that persistent challenge with microorganisms is associated with increased production of cytokines and increased susceptibility of periphery cells to undergo apoptosis. We observed an increased frequency of activated T cells and a higher frequency of IL-4- but not IFN-gamma-producing cells in the periphery of the Ghanaians. The IL-4 was produced mainly by CD4+ cells, in contrast to IFN-gamma which was produced equally by CD4+, CD8+ and TCR-gammadelta+ cells. The frequencies of cytokine-producing cells were highly correlated to the frequencies of activated cells. Finally, cells from Ghanaians were more susceptible to activation-induced apoptosis. These results may explain why some epidemic diseases seem to have a different mode of transmission in Africa compared to the western world, and may thus be of importance when vaccine strategies are considered in Africa.
Induction of interferon-gamma and IL-4 production by mitogen and specific antigens in peripheral blood lymphocytes of Type 1 diabetes patients.	A functional imbalance in cytokine production resulting in dominance of Th1 over Th2 type response has been suggested to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes. In this study the cellular responses to pokeweed mitogen and a panel of specific antigens were analysed by measuring the production of IFN-gamma and IL-4 cytokines at the levels of mRNA expression (expression index=antigen/medium) and protein secretion in culture supernatants. Two enterovirus preparates were included due to the suggested significance of these viruses in the aetiology of type 1 diabetes. The study included 22 children with newly-diagnosed type 1 diabetes, 15 children with longer duration of disease and 20 healthy children. Comparisons were made between age- and sex-matched groups. Newly diagnosed diabetic patients had significantly higher IFN-gamma mRNA expression index (p<0.02) but also higher IL-4 mRNA expression index (p<0.05) in tetanus toxoid stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells compared to healthy controls. Also the diabetic patients studied 3-72 months after the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes showed a tendency to higher IFN-gamma mRNA expression index compared to controls (0.05<p<0.1). Enhanced mitogen-stimulated IFN-gamma mRNA expression index was observed in children with newly-diagnosed type 1 diabetes when compared to subjects with longer duration of diabetes (p<0.05). No significant differences were observed in IFN-gamma produced into the culture supernatants. In conclusion, imbalance in both IFN-gamma and IL-4 mRNA levels was demonstrated between diabetic patients and healthy subjects.
The increased interleukin-13 in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: relations to other Th1-, Th2-related cytokines and clinical findings.	The levels of interleukin-13 (IL-13) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) were examined and related to other Th1-/Th2- related cytokines, clinical manifestations and other markers. Serum levels of IL-13 and other cytokines, soluble markers were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Patients with active SLE had a significantly increased level of IL-13. Most patients with high levels of IL-13 had higher levels of IL-6, and some patients had high levels of gammaIFN. These patients were divided into two groups according to the patterns of these increased cytokines; one with a high level of only Th2 related cytokines (IL-13 or IL-6) and another with high levels of both Th2 related and Th1 related cytokines (gammaIFN or IL-2). The latter patients had high levels of soluble CD8 and CD23, and some of them had hemolytic anemia or pulmonary involvement, while most of the former patients had nephropathy. Thus, in SLE, the levels of IL-13 were increased, and the heterogeneity of increased Th2- and Th1-related cytokines was related to that of activation markers and clinical manifestations.
Balance of GAD65-specific IL-10 production and polyclonal Th1-type response in type 1 diabetes.	It has been proposed that cytokine responses of memory CD4+ cells change from a T-helper 2 (Th2)-to a T-helper 1 (Th1)-dominant response as the disease progresses in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice. However, the regulation of Th1/Th2 balance in spontaneous diabetes development in this model is not well understood. In this study, higher glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65)-specific IL-10 production was observed at 10-12 weeks in NOD mice, and a marked increase of Th1-type response (IFN-gamma production) upon polyclonal (anti-CD3 antibody) stimulation was observed just before diabetes development along with a decline of GAD65-specific IL-10 production. Moreover, there was a clear negative correlation between IL-10 level upon GAD65 stimulation and log(IFN-gamma) level upon anti-CD3 antibody stimulation (r=-0.999, p<0.001). These results suggest that the balance between GAD65-specific IL-10 production and polyclonal Th1-type response may regulate the onset of hyperglycemia in type 1 diabetes in NOD mice.
Porcine dendritic cells generated in vitro: morphological, phenotypic and functional properties.	Despite the central role that dendritic cells (DC) play in immune regulation and antigen presentation, little is known about porcine DC. In this study, two sources of DC were employed. Bone marrow haematopoietic cell-derived DC (BM-DC) were generated using granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in the presence or absence of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Monocyte-derived DC (Momicron-DC) were generated with GM-CSF and interleukin-4 (IL-4). In both systems, non-adherent cells developed with dendritic morphology, expressing high levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II. The presence of TNF-alpha increased the BM-DC yield, and enhanced T-cell stimulatory capacity. Both BM-DC and Momicron-DC expressed the pan-myeloid marker SWC3, as well as CD1 and CD80/86, but were also CD14+ and CD16+. The CD16 molecule was functional, acting as a low-affinity Fc receptor. In contrast, the CD14 on DC appeared to differ functionally from monocyte CD14: attempts to block CD14, in terms of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced procoagulant activity (PCA), failed. The use of TNF-alpha or LPS for DC maturation induced up-regulation of MHC class II and/or CD80/86, but also CD14. Allogeneic mixed leucocyte reactions and staphylococcal enterotoxin B antigen presentation assays demonstrated that these DC possessed potent T-cell stimulatory capacity. No T helper cell polarization was noted. Both the BM-DC and the Momicron-DC induced a strong interferon-gamma and IL-4 response. Taken together, porcine DC generated in vitro possess certain characteristics relating them to DC from other species including humans, but the continued presence of CD14 and CD16 on mature and immature porcine DC was a notable difference.
Autoantibodies in cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis.	The pathogenesis of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis (CFA) involves injury, an immune/inflammatory response and fibrosis. The cause of the injury is unknown, but the identification of serum autoantibodies makes an autoimmune aetiology attractive. The core study on which this commentary is based used novel cloning and serum screening technologies in order to identify new public and private autoantibodies in sera from 12 patients with CFA. Largely negative conclusions were drawn from that study. However, we suggest that the prevalence of autoantibodies may have been underestimated, that the study was timely and that this approach is worth pursuing further.
Th2 cytokines and asthma. Interleukin-4: its role in the pathogenesis of asthma, and targeting it for asthma treatment with interleukin-4 receptor antagonists.	Interleukin-4 (IL-4) mediates important pro-inflammatory functions in asthma including induction of the IgE isotype switch, expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), promotion of eosinophil transmigration across endothelium, mucus secretion, and differentiation of T helper type 2 lymphocytes leading to cytokine release. Asthma is a complex genetic disorder that has been linked to polymorphisms in the IL-4 gene promoter and proteins involved in IL-4 signaling. Soluble recombinant IL-4 receptor lacks transmembrane and cytoplasmic activating domains and can therefore sequester IL-4 without mediating cellular activation. We report the results of initial clinical trials, which demonstrate clinical efficacy of this naturally occurring IL-4 antagonist as a therapeutic agent in asthma.
Th2 cytokines and asthma. The role of interleukin-5 in allergic eosinophilic disease.	Interleukin-5 is produced by a number of cell types, and is responsible for the maturation and release of eosinophils in the bone marrow. In humans, interleukin-5 is a very selective cytokine as a result of the restricted expression of the interleukin-5 receptor on eosinophils and basophils. Eosinophils are a prominent feature in the pulmonary inflammation that is associated with allergic airway diseases, suggesting that inhibition of interleukin-5 is a viable treatment. The present review addresses the data that relate interleukin-5 to pulmonary inflammation and function in animal models, and the use of neutralizing anti-interleukin-5 monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of asthma in humans.
Th2 cytokines and asthma. Interleukin-9 as a therapeutic target for asthma.	Asthma is a complex heritable inflammatory disorder of the airways in which the development of clinical disease depends on environmental exposure. It has been well established that T helper type 2 (TH2) lymphocytes and their cytokines have an important role in allergic asthma. Interleukin (IL)-9, a member of the TH2 cytokine family, has recently been implicated as an essential factor in determining mucosal immunity and susceptibility to atopic asthma. In this review we examine the critical experiments and observations that support this hypothesis. We also discuss these results in comparison with the experiments supporting the involvement of other T H2 cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13.
Could TH1 and TH2 diseases coexist? Evaluation of asthma incidence in children with coeliac disease, type 1 diabetes, or rheumatoid arthritis: a register study.	Asthma is generally regarded as a disease with strong T(H)2-type cytokine expression, whereas in autoimmune disorders, such as coeliac disease (CD), insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), T(H)1-type expression is seen. According to the cross-regulatory properties of T(H)1 and T(H)2 cells, one would assume that these diseases exist in different patient populations.
IL-17 expression as a possible predictive parameter for subclinical renal allograft rejection.	In the present study we have tried to establish the role of IL-17 in subclinical renal allograft rejection. In this animal model, renal grafts from BN (RT1n) were transplanted heterotopically into LEW (RT1l) rats. As controls, LEW grafts were transplanted into LEW rats. The histopathological examination demonstrated that the changes in the allograft kidney on day 2 were similar to those ranked as borderline changes according to the Banff classification scale. On day 2, the serum level of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine were the same as on day 1. The examination of allograft cytokines mRNA showed that IL-17 mRNA expressed earlier on the second postoperative day, peaked at day 5, and then declined, becoming almost undetectable at day 9, when most rats died. IL-17 antigen was also proven, by histochemical staining, to be expressed early, however we could not find the same early appearance on other Th1/Th2 cytokines. In human renal biopsy samples, the IL-17 antigen could be found scattered around in the borderline changed rejected renal allografts without evidence of a serum creatinine increase, but was undetectable both in normal controls and in renal transplant tissue without signs of rejection. IL-17 mRNA was detected in the mononuclear cells of the urinary sediment of patients suffering from borderline subclinical rejection. From the above results we can hypothesize that IL-17 could serve as a predictive parameter for borderline subclinical renal allograft rejection in the future.
Th1 and th2 responses, HIV-1 coreceptors, and HIV-1 infection.	The Th1/Th2 model provides an interesting paradigm for understanding several pathophysiological processes and possibly for developing new immunotherapeutical strategies. In HIV-1 infection the interaction between the type of HIV-1 strain and the pathway of the ongoing T-cell effector response, despite its complexity, may represent one of the crucial mechanisms in determining the outcome of virus infection. While the possibility of an HIV-1-driven Th1 to Th2 switch of the immune response is still debated, evidence is accumulating to suggest that cytokines produced during an immune response can contribute to promote a selective pressure toward the evolution of HIV-1 viral strains with different tropism. This article summarizes the results of our recent studies in which the expression of CCR5 and CXCR4 HIV-1 co-receptors, as well as the activity of R5- or X4- tropic strains of HIV-1 in different in vitro models of Th1/Th2 polarization was analyzed.
Nasal administration of Schistosoma mansoni egg antigen-cholera B subunit conjugate suppresses hepatic granuloma formation and reduces mortality in S. mansoni-infected mice.	Granulomatous inflammation in schistosomiasis is a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction mediated by CD4+ T cells specific for parasite egg antigens (Ags). In an attempt to control T-cell responses leading to excessive harmful inflammation and granuloma formation, especially in the liver, BALB/c mice were intranasally (i.n.) treated with soluble Schistosoma mansoni egg Ags (SEA) conjugated to cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), a mucosa-binding protein with demonstrated capacity to suppress inflammatory T-cell functions after mucosal administration. Treatment with CTB-SEA significantly conjugate a reduced liver granuloma formation in infected mice associated with decreased SEA specific Th1- and Th2-type immune responses by liver leukocytes. Importantly, treatment with CTB-SEA conjugate also significantly reduced the mortality in chronically infected mice. In S. mansoni-infected large-granuloma forming CBA mice, i.n. treatment with purified Sm-p40, the major egg antigen, conjugated to CTB likewise significantly inhibited hepatic egg granuloma formation. A reduction of SEA-driven lymphoproliferation and of interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5 production, together with an increase in transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 production, were observed in splenic cells from CTB-Sm-p40-treated SEA-sensitized mice, as well as in liver leukocytes from CTB-Sm-p40-treated schistosome-infected mice. These results indicate that mucosal administration of SEA or purified Sm-p40 antigen in conjunction with CTB is highly effective in curtailing immunopathologic manifestations of schistosomiasis in vivo in infected hosts.
CD80(B7.1) and CD86(B7.2) do not have distinct roles in setting the Th1/Th2 balance in autoimmunity in rats.	Some data suggest that the interaction between CD28 and CD80 (B7.1) stimulates Th1-responses and that CD28 and CD86 (B7.2) stimulates Th2-responses, however this is controversial. We addressed this issue by using mercuric chloride (HgCl2)-induced autoimmunity in Brown Norway (BN) rats as a highly polarized Th2 model and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats as a highly polarized Th1 model. Monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) to CD80 and CD86, given singly, had little effect in either model, however when given together they almost completely suppressed the HgCl2-induced autoimmunity: the peak immunoglobulin (Ig)E concentration was 3.25 microg/ml in treated animals versus 2770 microg/ml in controls (P < 0.0001); caecal vasculitis was suppressed with a median vasculitis score of 0 in treated animals versus 6 in controls (P < 0.0001); and new germinal centre formation was significantly suppressed. A combination of the antibodies also markedly reduced the severity of clinical EAE; from a median aggregate clinical score of 9 to 3 (P = 0.02) and delayed the onset from a median of 12.5 days to 16 days after immunization (P = 0.006). We have demonstrated profound suppression of both Th1 and Th2-driven autoimmunity in rats by a combination of anti-CD80 and CD86, but have been unable to demonstrate any clear differential effects.
Hyper immunoglobulin E response in mice with monoclonal populations of B and T lymphocytes.	A key event in the pathogenesis of allergies is the production of antibodies of the immunoglobulin (Ig)E class. In normal individuals the levels of IgE are tightly regulated, as illustrated by the low serum IgE concentration. In addition, multiple immunizations are usually required to generate detectable IgE responses in normal experimental animals. To define the parameters that regulate IgE production in vivo, we generated mice bearing monoclonal populations of B and T lymphocytes specific for influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) and chicken ovalbumin (OVA), respectively. A single immunization of the monoclonal mice with the cross-linked OVA-HA antigen led to serum IgE levels that reached 30-200 microg/ml. This unusually high IgE response was prevented by the infusion of regulatory alpha/beta CD4(+) T cells belonging to both CD25(+) and CD25(-) subpopulations. The regulation by the infused T cells impeded the development of fully competent OVA-specific effector/memory Th2 lymphocytes without inhibiting the initial proliferative response of T cells or promoting activation-induced cell death. Our results indicate that hyper IgE responses do not occur in normal individuals due to the presence of regulatory T cells, and imply that the induction of regulatory CD4(+) T cells could be used for the prevention of atopy.
A major fraction of human bone marrow lymphocytes are Th2-like CD1d-reactive T cells that can suppress mixed lymphocyte responses.	Murine bone marrow (BM) NK T cells can suppress graft-vs-host disease, transplant rejection, and MLRs. Human BM contains T cells with similar potential. Human BM was enriched for NK T cells, approximately 50% of which recognized the nonpolymorphic CD1d molecule. In contrast to the well-characterized blood-derived CD1d-reactive invariant NK T cells, the majority of human BM CD1d-reactive T cells used diverse TCR. Healthy donor invariant NK T cells rapidly produce large amounts of IL-4 and IFN-gamma and can influence Th1/Th2 decision-making. Healthy donor BM CD1d-reactive T cells were Th2-biased and suppressed MLR and, unlike the former, responded preferentially to CD1d(+) lymphoid cells. These results identify a novel population of human T cells which may contribute to B cell development and/or maintain Th2 bias against autoimmune T cell responses against new B cell Ag receptors. Distinct CD1d-reactive T cell populations have the potential to suppress graft-vs-host disease and stimulate antitumor responses.
The capsular polysaccharides of Cryptococcus neoformans activate normal CD4(+) T cells in a dominant Th2 pattern.	Capsular components of Cryptococcus neoformans induce several deleterious effects on T cells. However, it is unknown how the capsular components act on these lymphocytes. The present study characterized cellular and molecular events involved in immunoregulation of splenic CD4(+) T cells by C. neoformans capsular polysaccharides (CPSs). The results showed that CPSs induce proliferation of normal splenic CD4(+) T cells, but not of normal CD8(+) T or B lymphocytes. Such proliferation depended on physical contact between CPSs and viable splenic adherent cells (SAC) and CD40 ligand-induced intracellular signal transduction. The absence of lymphoproliferation after fixation of SAC with paraformaldehyde has discarded the hypothesis of a superantigen-like activation. The evaluation of a cytokine pattern produced by the responding CD4(+) T lymphocytes revealed that CPSs induce a dominant Th2 pattern, with high levels of IL-4 and IL-10 production and undetectable inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. Blockade of CD40 ligand by relevant mAb down-regulated the CPS-induced anti-inflammatory cytokine production and abolished the enhancement of fungus growth in cocultures of SAC and CD4(+) T lymphocytes. Our findings suggest that CPSs induce proliferation and differentiation of normal CD4(+) T cells into a Th2 phenotype, which could favor parasite growth and thus important deleterious effects to the host.
HIV mucosal vaccine: nasal immunization with rBCG-V3J1 induces a long term V3J1 peptide-specific neutralizing immunity in Th1- and Th2-deficient conditions.	In the vaccine strategy against HIV, bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG), a live attenuated strain of Mycobacterium bovis, is considered to be one of potential vectors for mucosal delivery of vaccine Ag. We analyzed the induction of the Ag-specific Ab response by nasal immunization with recombinant BCG vector-based vaccine (rBCG-V3J1) that can secrete the V3 principal neutralizing epitope of HIV. Mice were nasally immunized with rBCG-V3J1 (10 microg) three times at weekly intervals. Four weeks after the initial immunization, high titers of V3J1-specific IgG Abs were seen in serum. These high levels of HIV-specific serum IgG responses were maintained for >12 mo following nasal immunization without any booster immunization. V3J1-specific IgG-producing cells were detected in mononuclear cells isolated from spleen, nasal cavity, and salivary gland of the nasally vaccinated mice. Nasal rBCG-V3J1 also induced high levels of prolonged HIV-specific serum IgG responses in Th1 (IFN-gamma(-/-))- or Th2 (IL-4(-/-))-immunodeficient mice. Further, IgG3 was highest among V3 peptide-specific IgG subclass Ab responses in these immunodeficient mice as well as in wild-type mice. In addition, this Ag-specific serum IgG Abs induced by nasal immunization with rBCG-V3J1 possessed the ability to neutralize clinical isolate of HIV in vitro. These results suggested that the nasal rBCG-V3J1 system might be used as a therapeutic vaccine in addition to a prophylaxis vaccine for the control of AIDS.
Enhancing effect of IL-1, IL-17, and TNF-alpha on macrophage inflammatory protein-3alpha production in rheumatoid arthritis: regulation by soluble receptors and Th2 cytokines.	Macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-3alpha is a chemokine involved in the migration of T cells and immature dendritic cells. To study the contribution of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines to the recruitment of these cells in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium, we looked at the effects of the monocyte-derived cytokines IL-1beta and TNF-alpha and the T cell-derived cytokine IL-17 on MIP-3alpha production by RA synoviocytes. Addition of IL-1beta, IL-17, and TNF-alpha induced MIP-3alpha production in a dose-dependent manner. At optimal concentrations, IL-1beta (100 pg/ml) was much more potent than IL-17 (100 ng/ml) and TNF-alpha (100 ng/ml). When combined at lower concentrations, a synergistic effect was observed. Conversely, the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and IL-13 inhibited MIP-3alpha production by activated synoviocytes, but IL-10 had no effect. Synovium explants produced higher levels of MIP-3alpha in RA than osteoarthritis synovium. MIP-3alpha-producing cells were located in the lining layer and perivascular infiltrates in close association with CD1a immature dendritic cells. Addition of exogenous IL-17 or IL-1beta to synovium explants increased MIP-3alpha production. Conversely, specific soluble receptors for IL-1beta, IL-17, and TNF-alpha inhibited MIP-3alpha production to various degrees, but 95% inhibition was obtained only when the three receptors were combined. Similar optimal inhibition was also obtained with IL-4, but IL-13 and IL-10 were less active. These findings indicate that interactions between monocyte and Th1 cell-derived cytokines contribute to the recruitment of T cells and dendritic cells by enhancing the production of MIP-3alpha by synoviocytes. The inhibitory effect observed with cytokine-specific inhibitors and Th2 cytokines may have therapeutic applications.
Preferential usage of TCR-Vbeta17 by peripheral and cutaneous T cells in nickel-induced contact dermatitis.	Nickel (Ni) is one of the most common contact sensitizers in man, and Ni-induced contact dermatitis is considered as a model of hapten-induced delayed type hypersensitivity. Previous studies indicated that Ni-reactive T cells derived from Ni-allergic individuals preferentially express distinct TCR-Vbeta chains. However, data on the TCR-Vbeta repertoire of Ni-responsive T cells are not consistent. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify the TCR-Vbeta receptors of Ni-responsive peripheral and cutaneous T cells in a cohort of 17 donors with Ni-induced contact dermatitis in comparison with those of 6 healthy controls. Peripheral NiSO(4)-responsive T lymphocytes showed a significant overexpression of TCR-Vbeta17 and the frequency of TCR-Vbeta17(+) T cells correlated significantly with the in vitro reactivity of PBMC to NiSO(4). In addition, the cutaneous infiltrate of Ni-induced patch test reactions consisted primarily of Vbeta17(+) T cells. The majority of patch test-derived NiSO(4)-responsive T cells of three allergic donors were TCR-Vbeta17(+), whereas patch test-derived NiSO(4) unresponsive T cells of four additional donors did not express TCR-Vbeta17. Skin-derived Ni-responsive T cell lines from three donors uniformly secreted the Th2 cytokine, IL-5, but no IFN-gamma or IL-10. These in vitro and in vivo findings strongly suggest that T cells with a restricted TCR-Vbeta repertoire, i.e., Vbeta17, predominate in NiSO(4)-induced contact dermatitis and may be crucial in the effector phase of Ni hypersensitivity.
Profound effect of the absence of IL-4 on T cell responses during infection with Schistosoma mansoni.	T cell responses of interleukin (IL)-4(-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice infected with the helper T cell 2 (Th2) response-inducing pathogen Schistosoma mansoni were compared. As expected, given the important role of IL-4 in Th2 response induction, the absence of IL-4 resulted in diminished Th2 responses, apparent as reduced production of IL-4, -5, and -10 by CD4(+) cells isolated from the spleens of infected IL-4(-/-) mice. Surprisingly, these cells produced significantly less interferon (IFN)-gamma and proliferated less than did those from infected WT mice after T cell receptor ligation. CD8(+) cells isolated from infected IL-4(-/-) mice also produced less IFN-gamma than WT CD8 cells, although there was no difference in the proliferative responses of these cell populations. After infection, spleens of infected IL-4(-/-) mice did not enlarge to the same extent as those of WT mice, and attrition of the CD8(+) cell population within this lymphoid organ was noted. Taken together, the data indicate that in addition to inhibiting Th2 response development, the lack of IL-4 during schistosomiasis significantly affects additional aspects of T cell responses.
Increased CCR4 expression in active systemic lupus erythematosus.	CC chemokine receptor (CCR)4 is selectively expressed on Th2-type T cells and has been shown to be responsible for Th2-dominant immune responses. In this study, we analyzed the expression of CCR4 in active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients by FACS analysis using anti-human CCR4 monoclonal antibody and determined the clinical relevance in this disease. Higher expression of CCR4 was found on peripheral blood CD4+ T lymphocytes of active SLE patients than was found with healthy controls and inactive SLE patients. The CCR4 expression significantly correlated with the SLE disease activity index (SLEDAI) scores. The expression was dramatically decreased after the corticosteroid therapy in parallel with a serum level of double-stranded DNA antibody and SLEDAI scores. Moreover, we found that serum levels of IL-10 were increased in active SLE patients and significantly correlated with the CCR4 expression. This study suggests that Th2 immune response is predominant in the active state of SLE, and CCR4 may have relevance in regard to the disease course in SLE patients.
The hypereosinophilic syndrome associated with CD4+CD3- helper type 2 (Th2) lymphocytes.	We describe herein the clinical and laboratory manifestations of a unique group of patients (pts) presenting with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) who were treated in our medical centers for 4-13 years. Skin biopsies, flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), assays for cytokines and immunoglobulin (Ig) production in vitro, and Southern blots of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes were performed. All four pts had a persistent hypereosinophilia (> 1.9 x 10(9)/L) and chronic skin rash. Three of four had elevated IgE, thrombotic manifestations and lung involvement (asthma and/or infiltrates), and one had deforming sero-negative arthritis of the hands. 66-95% of their peripheral T-cells expressed CD4 but not CD3 or TCR molecules on the cell surface membrane. Activated CD4+CD3- cells secreted interleukin (IL)-4 and/or 5, and were required for maximal IgE secretion by autologous B-cells. Two pts had evidence of rearrangement of TCR genes of the CD4+CD3- cells, one of whom died of anaplastic lymphoma. In conclusion, HES with CD4+CD3- lymphocytosis may be associated with high serum IgE, dermatological, pulmonary, thrombotic and rheumatic manifestations which may be due to Th2 effects of CD4+CD3- cells migrating to end organs. Fatal systemic lymphoid malignancy may also develop in some pts with monoclonal expansion of the CD4+CD3- T-cells.
Disease-associated autoantibodies during pregnancy and at birth in families affected by type 1 diabetes.	We studied the pattern of type 1 diabetes-associated autoantibodies during pregnancy and the transplacental transfer of these autoantibodies to the fetal circulation and searched for possible signs of prenatal induction of beta-cell autoimmunity in newborn infants. The population comprised 208 mothers and their newborn infants. Seventy-four of the mothers (36%) had type 1 diabetes and 134 (64%) of the infants had an affected father or sibling. Blood samples were obtained from the mother at the end of the first trimester and at delivery, and from the cord blood of the newborn infant. Close to 40% of the mothers with type 1 diabetes had antibodies to islet cells (ICA), 55% to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GADA) and 54% to the IA-2 protein (IA-2A) in early pregnancy, whereas the corresponding frequencies in the nonaffected mothers were 5.2%, 5.2% and 3.0%. No significant changes could be seen in autoantibody levels during pregnancy, and there was a close correlation between the two maternal samples. One third of the infants of mothers with type 1 diabetes tested positive for ICA, 50% for GADA and 51% for IA-2A. Six percent of the infants of nondiabetic mothers had ICA, 2.2% GADA and none had IA-2A. None of the infants of the antibody negative mothers had antibodies in their cord blood. These observations indicate that the immunomodulatory effect of pregnancy on signs of beta-cell autoimmunity is weak, but if diabetes-associated autoantibodies are present in the mother, most of them are transferred to the fetal circulation. Our data do not provide any support for fetal induction of beta-cell autoimmunity.
T cell cytokines determine the severity of experimental IgA nephropathy by regulating IgA glycosylation.	Hyperfunction of Th2 cells and aberrant glycosylation of IgA have been proposed independently as factors in the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy (IgAN), the most common form of glomerulonephritis. To investigate the relationship between Th2 cytokines and IgA glycosylation in the genesis of IgAN, we induced IgAN in C3HeB and BALB/c mice by oral immunization and intranasal challenge with Sendai virus. Although both strains of mice developed microhaematuria and glomerular IgA immune deposits to similar degrees, only BALB/c mice developed significant renal insufficiency. More profound reductions of terminal galactosylation and sialylation occurred in Sendai virus-specific IgA from BALB/c versus C3HeB mice, and splenocytes from immunized BALB/c mice produced more Th2 and less Th1 cytokines compared to C3HeB mice when stimulated with antigen in vitro. Furthermore, the decreased glycosylation of IgA elicited by Th2 cytokines in vitro was blunted by the addition of IFN-gamma. We conclude that increased production of Th2 cytokines can lead to abnormalities in IgA glycosylation, which in turn promote heightened phlogistic responses to IgA immune complexes lodging in the glomerulus. We suggest that a relative or absolute increase in Th2 cytokine production in response to mucosal infection is a significant pathogenic factor in human IgAN.
Neutrophilic airway inflammation in horses with heaves is characterized by a Th2-type cytokine profile.	Heaves in horses shares many similarities with human asthma, including lower airway inflammation, reversible airway obstruction, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Extrinsic asthma is an allergic response to environmental allergens and a similar immunologic mechanism may be implicated in heaves. It is now recognized that a Th2 subset of CD4+ lymphocytes is associated with allergic diseases such as atopic asthma. The purpose of this study was to determine whether airway inflammation in heaves is associated with a pattern of expression of cytokine suggestive of a Th2 type response. The expression of mRNA, encoding interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) was measured in bronchoalveolar cells from seven horses with heaves and five control horses, using in situ hybridization and radiolabeled equine-specific cRNA probes coding for these cytokines. Bronchoalveolar cells of horses with heaves had an increased expression of IL-4 (p = 0.01) and IL-5 (p = 0.02) mRNA and a decreased expression of INF-gamma (p = 0.01) compared with control horses. Here we show that inflammatory cells in lungs from horses with heaves display a Th2-type cytokine profile that is consistent with the hypothesis that heaves is an allergic condition with similarity to human asthma.
Temporal sequence and kinetics of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion induced by toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	The staphylococcal superantigen toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1) induces massive cytokine production, which is believed to be the key factor in the pathogenesis of TSS. The temporal sequence and kinetics of both proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines induced by TSST-1 in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were investigated. A panel of loss-of-function single-amino-acid-substitution mutants of TSST-1, previously demonstrated to be defective in either major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II binding (G31R) or T-cell receptor (TCR) interaction (H135A, S14N), was studied in parallel to further elucidate the mechanisms of cytokine secretion. Wild-type recombinant (WT r) TSST-1 induced a biphasic pattern of cytokine secretion: an early phase with rapid release of proinflammatory cytokines (especially gamma interferon, interleukin-2 [IL-2], and tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-alpha]) within 3 to 4 h poststimulation, and a later phase with more gradual production of both proinflammatory (IL-1beta, IL-12, and TNF-beta) and anti-inflammatory (IL-6, IL-10) cytokines within 16 to 72 h poststimulation. G31R, which is defective in MHC class II binding, induced a cytokine profile similar to that of WT rTSST-1, except that secretion of the early-phase proinflammatory cytokines was delayed and production of IL-1beta and IL-12 was markedly reduced. In contrast, mutant toxins defective in TCR interaction either demonstrated complete absence of any cytokine secretion during the entire observation period (H135A) or resulted in complete abolishment of IL-2 and other early-phase proinflammatory cytokines, while secretion of IL-10 appeared unaffected (S14N). Neither WT rTSST-1 nor the mutant toxins induced IL-4 or transforming growth factor beta. Our data indicate that effective TCR interaction is critical for the induction of the early-phase proinflammatory cytokine response, thus underscoring the importance of T-cell signaling in TSS.
Flt3 ligand: a novel cytokine prevents allergic asthma in a mouse model.	Flt-3 ligand (FL), a recently described growth factor affecting early hematopoietic progenitor cells, can also support the expansion of dendritic cells secreting IL-12. Since type 2 T cells predominate in asthma and IL-12 prevents the differentiation of naive T lymphocytes to a type 2 phenotype, we hypothesized that FL could prevent the development of asthma-like conditions in the ovalbumin mouse model. We found that co-administration of FL during ovalbumin sensitization abrogated late allergic responses, but had no effect on early allergic responses. Airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine was also blocked by FL treatment. Analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid demonstrated a significant reduction in eosinophils, with concomitant decreases in IL-5 and increases in IFN-gamma levels. However, there was no change in BAL fluid IL-4 and serum IgE levels. These data suggest that FL treatment prevents ovalbumin-induced asthma in the mouse and may provide a useful adjuvant in the treatment of human asthma.
Oral tolerance induction in dermatophagoides pteronyssinus-sensitized mice induces inhibition of IgE response and upregulation of TGF-beta secretion.	Oral antigen administration induces peripheral tolerance in naive animals. Studies of oral tolerance induction in sensitized mice have clinical relevance as a strategy to modulate allergy. In this study, the A/Sn mice sensitized with extract of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Dp) and submitted to oral Dp administration showed a marked decrease in IgE anti-Dp antibody production compared with sensitized phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-fed mice. T cells from Dp-fed mice cocultured with spleen cells from PBS-fed mice were able to inhibit IgE anti-Dp antibody production and did not interfere in IgG1 antibody levels. The analysis of cytokine profile after Dp feeding showed a significant decrease in interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, and IL-13 antigen-induced secretion levels by spleen cells, without shifting to IL-2 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production. Both transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) baseline and TGF-beta antigen-stimulated levels were increased in Dp-fed mice. The effects of regulatory cytokines on anti-Dp IgE antibody production were investigated in vitro. The addition of recombinant TGF-beta (rTGF-beta) to spleen cell cultures stimulated by Dp inhibited IgE antibody secretion in both mouse groups. Neutralizing antibodies to IL-4, but not anti-TGF-beta, induced a marked inhibition of IgE production. Therefore, a negative modulatory effect on IgE response by inhibition of the axis Th2 was observed in sensitized Dp-fed mice, possibly mediated by induction of regulatory cytokines.
Contribution of interleukin-1 to Th1- and Th2-dependent variants of chronic graft-versus-host reaction.	Semiallogenic transfer of lymphoid cells from parental DBA/2 strain to (C57Bl/6xDBA/2)F1 hybrids induces two variants of chronic graft-versus-host reaction with predominant activation of donor Th1 or Th2 cells [2] in genetically homologous recipients: first, severe inhibition of the humoral immune response, or second, autoimmune disease (lupus nephritis) against the background of suppressed cell and humoral immunity. These variants of chronic graft-versus-host reaction are characterized by different changes in interleukin-1 level.
Contrasting roles for STAT4 and STAT6 signal transduction pathways in murine renal ischemia-reperfusion injury.	Recent data support a modulatory role for CD4 T cells in experimental renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). CD4 T cells can functionally differentiate to either a Th1 (IFN-gamma producing) or the counterbalancing Th2 (IL-4) phenotype. The enzymes signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 4 and STAT6 regulate Th1 or Th2 differentiation and cytokine production, respectively. We therefore hypothesized that mice that were STAT4 deficient would be protected from renal IRI and that STAT6-deficient mice would have a more severe course. Intracellular cytokine staining of splenocytes from STAT4-/- or STAT6-/- exhibited distinct IFN-gamma and IL-4 cytokine expression profiles. STAT6-/- had markedly worse renal function and tubular injury postischemia compared with wild type. STAT4-/- had only mildly improved function. Renal phagocyte infiltration and ICAM-1 upregulation were similar in STAT4-/-, STAT6-/-, and wild type. To evaluate if the mechanism of the marked worsening in the STAT6-/- mice could be due to IL-4 deficiency, IL-4-deficient mice were studied and had similar postischemic phenotype to STAT6-/- mice. These data demonstrate that the STAT6 pathway has a major protective role in renal IRI. IL-4 deficiency is a likely mechanism underlying the STAT6 effect. A "yin-yang" role for inflammation is emerging in renal IRI, similar to recent observations in atherosclerosis.
PACAP in immunity and inflammation.	The pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide belonging to the VIP/secretin/glucagon family of peptides, produced by the lymphoid cells, which exerts a wide spectrum of immunological functions controlling the homeostasis of immune system through different receptors expressed in various immunocompetent cells. In the last decade, PACAP has been clearly identified as a potent anti-inflammatory factor that exerts its function by regulating the production of both anti- and proinflammatory mediators. In this sense, PACAP prevents death by septic shock, an acute inflammatory disease with a high mortality. In addition, PACAP regulates the expression of costimulatory molecules, inasmuch as this related to the modulation in the shift from Th1 towards Th2 differentiation. We recently reported that PACAP prevents the deleterious effects of arthritis by downregulating both inflammatory and autoimmune components of the disease. Therefore, PACAP and analogs have been proposed as very promising candidates, alternative to other existing treatments, for treating acute and chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, such as septic shock, arthritis, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, or autoimmune diabetes.
A model for antigen-specific T-cell anergy: displacement of CD4-p56(lck) signalosome from the lipid rafts by a soluble, dimeric peptide-MHC class II chimera.	Soluble, dimeric peptide-MHC chimeras were shown to induce Ag-specific T cell anergy in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we describe a mechanism by which a soluble, dimeric peptide MHC class II chimera (DEF) induces Ag-specific T cell anergy. The anergic cells showed a displacement of the CD4-p56(lck) signaling module from the GM1-rich plasma membrane microdomains (lipid rafts), and subsequently an increase in p59(fyn) kinase activity, a dominant expression of p21 inhibitory TCR zeta-chain, and a poor phosphorylation and recruitment of zeta-associated protein of 70 kDa kinase to the TCR's immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs. The Th1 and Th2 transcription was suppressed and the cells were arrested in the Th0 stage of differentiation. Recovery from DEF anergy occurred late and spontaneously at the expense of low thresholds for activation-induced cell death. In contrast to DEF, a combination of TCR and CD4 mAbs did not induce such alterations or anergy, indicating that the ligand-mediated topology of TCR and CD4 coengagement can differentially affect the T cell function. Our results argue for a model of anergy in which the defective partitioning of signaling molecules in lipid rafts is an early, negative signaling event in T cells. Physiological ligands like DEF chimeras may provide new tools for silencing the autoimmune processes, and may also help in deciphering new mechanisms of negative regulation in T cells.
The immunological basis of psoriasis.	Evidence that psoriasis is an immune-mediated disorder comes from laboratory studies, clinical observation, and use of targeted therapies. Immunohistochemical studies have shown that the majority of T cells in psoriatic plaques are CD45RO+ memory-effector T cells that migrate into skin in recognition of an as yet undetermined antigen. There is also a predominance of Th1 cytokines, namely interferon gamma, in psoriatic plaques, in contrast to the predominance of Th2 cytokines found in atopic dermatitis. The efficacy of therapeutic agents that target T cells, such as anti-CD4+ monoclonal antibodies, cyclosporin, and interleukin-2 fusion toxin, has provided further substantial evidence that psoriasis is a T-cell-mediated disease. New T-cell targeted approaches and cytokine modulation are advancing basic science in providing an understanding of the evidence for the importance of the immune process in the biology of psoriasis.
T helper type 2 cytokine receptors and associated transcription factors GATA-3, c-MAF, and signal transducer and activator of transcription factor-6 in induced sputum of atopic asthmatic patients.	It is well-known that the expression of T helper (Th) type 2 cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5, and their receptors, is up-regulated within the airways of allergic asthmatic patients. Furthermore, higher numbers of cells producing GATA-3, c-MAF, and signal transducer and activator of transcription factor (STAT)-6, which are transcription factors (TFs) that are implicated in the regulation and signaling of the Th2 cytokines, have been observed in bronchial biopsy specimens from asthmatic patients but not in those of healthy control subjects.
Suppression of allergic reactions by dehulled adlay in association with the balance of TH1/TH2 cell responses.	Dehulled adlay is known as a natural Chinese medicine having antiallergic activity, although its mechanism remains unclear. This study examined the effects of dehulled adlay on antigen-specific antibody and cytokine production. Mice were immunized three times with ovalbumin (OVA) in alum adjuvant. It was found that oral administration of dehulled adlay in mice suppressed the production of IgE against OVA antigen. Serum anti-OVA IgG(2a) antibody levels were significantly increased in mice after oral administration of dehulled adlay. Furthermore, the production of IL-2 by OVA-stimulated splenocytes was augmented in dehulled adlay-fed mice. Although dehulled adlay had no effect on the serum anti-OVA IgG(1) antibody levels, it had a great capacity to reduce IL-5 secretion by means of OVA-stimulated splenocytes. Hydrothermal processes, including steaming and extrusion cooking, did not change the capacity of dehulled adlay to suppress IgE production. Three fractions of dehulled alday, including methanolic extract, warm water extract, and residue, were obtained. The methanolic extract exhibited the greatest capacity to reduce anti-OVA IgE production. These results suggest that dehulled adlay has a modulating ability to shift the balance from Th2 to Th1 dominance in the T cell mediated immune system and may be beneficial for the treatment of allergic disorders.
Porcine Ig isotypes: function and molecular characteristics.	In pigs, protection against the toxigenic extra-cellular bacterium Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae was correlated with an increased IgG(1):IgG(2) ratio of haemolytic toxin-specific antibodies. In all species so far studied, IgG isotype expression is controlled by Type 1 (IFN-gamma, IL-12) and Type 2 (IL-4, IL-10) cytokines which dictate immune response polarization to cell-mediated (CMI) or antibody-mediated immunity (AMI), respectively. Thus, immunoglobulin (Ig) isotypes reflect Type 1 or Type 2 immune responses. Immunoglobulin isotype production by porcine B-cells cultured in the presence of recombinant porcine (rp) cytokines varies by individual, however pigs tend to generate a high IgG(1):IgG(2) ratio in response to rp IL-10 and the inverse in response to rp IFN-gamma or rp IL-12. Differential Ig isotype production should favor an isotype with a functional advantage to control the inciting infection and disease. However, functions of porcine Ig isotypes have not been described. To compare function of porcine IgM, IgG(1) and IgG(2) of defined specificity for hen eggwhite lysozyme (HEWL), Ig isotypes were affinity purified from serum by HEWL specificity and by isotype-specific mouse monoclonal antibodies. Their ability to activate complement (C') and to opsonize was tested in vitro. Porcine IgG(2) had greater guinea pig C' activating ability than did IgG(1). Neither isotype opsonized HEWL-conjugated sheep erythrocytes in vitro. Amino acid sequence analysis of IgG isotypes revealed that all subclasses have putative C' binding sites but that IgG(2a), IgG(2b) and IgG(4) were more flexible in the middle hinge region than IgG(1) and IgG(3) and would likely activate C' more efficiently. Thus, porcine IgG isotypes associated with resistance and susceptibility to disease also differ in their actual and predicted biological functions.
CD40 ligand (CD154) improves the durability of respiratory syncytial virus DNA vaccination in BALB/c mice.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection is the single most important cause of serious acute respiratory illness in children <1 year of age worldwide, and is associated with life-threatening pneumonia or bronchiolitis in the elderly. Current vaccine strategies include live, attenuated virus, subunit and DNA vaccines, however, none have been sufficiently safe, or shown to induce satisfactory long-term immunity, thus immune modulators are being considered to enhance the effectiveness of RSV vaccines. In this study, we examine CD40 ligand (CD40L) as an immune modulator to enhance the durability of DNA vaccines encoding RSV F and/or G glycoproteins in BALB/c mice. The addition of CD40L to DNA vaccines encoding the F glycoprotein enhanced virus clearance and some aspects of the immune response to RSV challenge, suggesting that CD40L may enhance the durability of RSV DNA vaccines.
Immunopathogenesis of chlamydia trachomatis infections in women.	To develop a model of pathogenesis by which Chlamydia trachomatis progresses from acute to chronic infection, and finally serious disease (salpingitis, tubal occlusion).
Kinetics of CCR7 expression differ between primary activation and effector memory states of T(H)1 and T(H)2 cells.	We explored the kinetics of CCR7 expression on T(H)1 and T(H)2 polarized cells as well as on antigen-specific T cell lines at various stages of differentiation. A striking pattern of early (days 7-14) inducible CCR7 expression was seen preferentially on primary T(H)1 cell lines, as compared to T(H)2 cells, and was dependent on the strength and duration of the T cell receptor signal. Upon repeated restimulation (days 21-28) and differentiation, a switch occurred in which T(H)2 cells had high CCR7 expression, whereas T(H)1 cells lost CCR7 expression. Chronic (8 weeks and later) effector memory cell lines were 95% CCR7 negative. These data demonstrate an ordered pattern of CCR7 expression that suggest more rapid priming of T(H)1 cells in the lymph node, and delayed priming with prolonged CCR7 expression during T(H)2 responses, and may have implications for tracking T(H)1 effector T cells ex vivo in autoimmune diseases.
Regulation of dendritic cell function by microbial stimuli.	Dendritic cells (DC) initiate T cell responses and produce cytokines and other molecules that can regulate the class adaptive immunity. It is increasingly clear that DC in vivo are in a "resting" state and require exogenous signals to transit into an "effector" state in which they can prime T cells. Much of this DC activation process appears to be regulated by infection. Exposure of murine DC to certain pathogens or their products triggers DC migration to T cell areas of secondary lymphoid tissues, improves MHC presentation and increases DC co-stimulatory potential. Pathogen recognition can also initiate cytokine production and/or condition DC to produce cytokines in response to subsequent T cell feedback signals delivered via CD40 and similar receptors. Recognition of pathogens by DC is largely dependent on Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Interestingly, mouse splenic CD8alpha+ and CDalpha-CD4- DC have the ability to produce either IL-12 p70 or IL-10 depending on the nature of the pathogen encountered. In contrast, CD4+ DC seem incapable of producing IL-12 p70. Thus, the nature of the pathogen can dictate the type of cytokine that is made by some DC subsets, allowing them to prime distinct types of immune responses. Overall, DC display significant plasticity in their ability to respond to infection and direct adaptive immunity.
TH1 and TH2 cytokine production among asthmatic children after immunotherapy.	Allergen immunotherapy results in a number of changes in clinical and immunological parameters. To study the kinetic influence of immunotherapy on cytokine production, we evaluated the ratios of Th1/Th2 for patients receiving mite-extract immunotherapy with 3-month intervals. Changes in Th1/Th2 ratio were calculated based on the intracellular cytokine and surface CD4 staining of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). No significantly different Th1/Th2 ratios were detected after immunotherapy, although ratios were lower for asthmatic children when compared with normal controls. Cytokine production was also determined on supernatants from mite- or mitogen-activated PBMC cells. A significantly increased production of all cytokines was detected from activated PBMC from patients after immunotherapy. Thus hyposensitization with mite extract for 1 year might improve the cytokine production capacity of asthma patients' PBMC.
Induction of interleukin-12 production in mouse macrophages by berberine, a benzodioxoloquinolizine alkaloid, deviates CD4+ T cells from a Th2 to a Th1 response.	In this study we investigated whether berberine-mediated induction of interleukin-12 (IL-12) production in antigen-presenting cells could regulate a cytokine profile of antigen-primed CD4+ T helper (Th) cells. Pretreatment with berberine induced IL-12 production in both macrophages and dendritic cells, and significantly increased the levels of IL-12 production in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages and in CD40 ligand-stimulated dendritic cells. Importantly, berberine pretreatment of macrophages increased their ability to induce interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and reduced their ability to induce IL-4 in antigen-primed CD4+ T cells. Berberine did not influence the macrophage cell surface expression of the class II major histocompatibility complex molecule, the co-stimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86, and intracellular adhesion molecule-1. Addition of neutralizing anti-IL-12p40 monoclonal antibody to cultures of berberine-pretreated macrophages and CD4+ T cells restored IL-4 production in antigen-primed CD4+ T cells. The in vivo administration of berberine resulted in the enhanced induction of IL-12 production by macrophages when stimulated in vitro with lipopolysaccharide or heat-killed Listeria monocytogenes, leading to the inhibition of the Th type 2 cytokine profile (decreased IL-4 and increased IFN-gamma production) in antigen-primed CD4+ T cells. These findings may point to a possible therapeutic use of berberine or medicinal plants containing berberine in the Th type 2 cell-mediated immune diseases such as allergic diseases.
Protection from autoimmune brain inflammation in mice lacking IFN-regulatory factor-1 is associated with Th2-type cytokines.	IFN-regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) is a transcription factor that regulates the expression of IFN-induced genes and type I IFN. It has previously been demonstrated that IRF-1-deficient mice show reduced susceptibility to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by a peptide from myelin basic protein. To further study the role of IRF-1 in brain inflammation, we analyzed EAE induced by immunization with a myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-derived peptide in 129/Sv mice lacking IRF-1. We found that these mice were almost completely resistant to EAE induction and that this unresponsiveness was intrinsically related to the IRF-1 deficiency of the T cells, but not with any other cell type. Furthermore, we show that the amelioration of EAE was associated with increased production of T(h)2-type and decreased production of T(h)1-type cytokines. These results demonstrate that absence of IRF-1 in myelin-specific T cells results in protection from severe EAE and is associated with a skewing of the T cell response towards T(h)2.
Immunomodulation in asthma: mechanisms and possible pitfalls.	Atopic diseases, including atopic asthma, are characterized by T helper cell (Th)2 cytokine pathology. The increased prevalence of asthma and allergic diseases, as well as Th1-associated conditions, is linked to 'excessive' hygiene. Several new immunomodulatory strategies in asthma and allergy, such as peptide therapy and DNA vaccines, show promise and are under clinical evaluation. They appear to exert their effects by producing a Th2 to Th1 shift, as well as inducing regulatory cytokines such as interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta. There is no evidence that such approaches are associated with Th1 pathology in humans, although lung inflammation induced by Th1 cells has been observed in mice. IL-10 plays a key regulatory role in dampening both Th2- and Th1-associated diseases. Failure to stimulate regulatory responses could explain the rising trends in allergy and autoimmunity, and also partly explain the mode of action of allergen-injection immunotherapy and new immunomodulatory approaches.
Effects of histamine on Th1/Th2 cytokine balance.	Atopic asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways where upon exposure to allergens, the body mounts an immune response. This disease is associated with an increase in the number of Th2 (T helper type 2) cells and Th2 cytokines and a decrease in the number of Th1 (T helper type 1) cells and Th1 cytokines. Histamine plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atopic asthma through differential regulation of T helper lymphocytes. Histamine enhances the secretion of Th2 cytokines such as IL-4 (interleukin-4), IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13 and inhibits the production of Th1 cytokines IL-2 and IFNgamma (interferon-gamma) and monokine IL-12. It has been shown that histamine can modulate the cytokine network through upregulation of PGE(2) (prostaglandin E(2)) and NO (nitric oxide). Histamine also affects cytokine production via H2 receptors and through the activation of PKA (protein kinase A). We have also demonstrated that the Jak-STAT (Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription) pathway is involved in histamine-mediated regulation of Th2 cytokines IL-5, IL-10, IL-13 and Th1 cytokine IFNgamma. While standard treatment of asthma consists of beta-receptor agonists and inhaled corticosteroids, the elucidation of histamine's control over the cytokine network and the Th1/Th2 balance provides a basis for the potential use of antihistamines in the prevention and treatment of atopic asthma. Several other anti-allergic agents to modulate the Th1/Th2 balance are under current investigation based on this paradigm. These include cytokines, cytokine antagonists, anti-IgE, and vaccinations. As more advances are made in our understanding of histamine and its control over the Th1/Th2 balance, the use of new therapeutic targets such as these will play a prominent role in disease management.
Effect of total secondary carotenoids extracts from Chlorococcum sp on Helicobacter pylori-infected BALB/c mice.	Helicobacter pylori is a human pathogen associated with type B gastritis, peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer. A high intake of carotenoids has been suggested to prevent development of gastric malignancies. Microalgae Chlorococcum sp. could accumulate secondary carotenoids under stress conditions. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether dietary cell extract of Chlorococcum sp. could affect the bacterial load of H. pylori infected BALB/c mice and whether it could induce modulation of cytokine production. BALB/c mice were infected with H. pylori three times at 2-day intervals. Two weeks later, they were orally fed with cell extract of Chlorococcum sp. for the following 2 weeks. Animals were killed at the end of the experiments. Stomachs were removed and paraffin sections were stained for histology examination. Splenocytes were obtained and cultured in vitro with H. pylori sonicate to evaluate induction of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin 4 (IL-4) secretion. Mice treated with carotenoids-rich algal meal showed significantly reduced bacterial load and gastric inflammation. These changes were associated with a shift of the T-lymphocytes response from a predominant T helper type 1 (Th1) response dominated by IFN-gamma to a Th1/Th2 response with IFN-gamma and IL-4.
Dissection of experimental asthma with DNA microarray analysis identifies arginase in asthma pathogenesis.	Asthma is on the rise despite intense, ongoing research underscoring the need for new scientific inquiry. In an effort to provide unbiased insight into disease pathogenesis, we took an approach involving expression profiling of lung tissue from mice with experimental asthma. Employing asthma models induced by different allergens and protocols, we identified 6.5% of the tested genome whose expression was altered in an asthmatic lung. Notably, two phenotypically similar models of experimental asthma were shown to have distinct transcript profiles. Genes related to metabolism of basic amino acids, specifically the cationic amino acid transporter 2, arginase I, and arginase II, were particularly prominent among the asthma signature genes. In situ hybridization demonstrated marked staining of arginase I, predominantly in submucosal inflammatory lesions. Arginase activity was increased in allergen-challenged lungs, as demonstrated by increased enzyme activity, and increased levels of putrescine, a downstream product. Lung arginase activity and mRNA expression were strongly induced by IL-4 and IL-13, and were differentially dependent on signal transducer and activator of transcription 6. Analysis of patients with asthma supported the importance of this pathway in human disease. Based on the ability of arginase to regulate generation of NO, polyamines, and collagen, these results provide a basis for pharmacologically targeting arginine metabolism in allergic disorders.
Host conditioning with total lymphoid irradiation and antithymocyte globulin prevents graft-versus-host disease: the role of CD1-reactive natural killer T cells.	Our previous studies in mice showed that the nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen of fractionated irradiation of the lymphoid tissues (total lymphoid irradiation; TLI) and depletive anti-T-cell antibodies (anti-thymocyte serum) markedly increased the percentage of regulatory DX5+ and natural killer 1.1+ T cells in the mouse spleen, and prevented acute lethal graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in BALB/c mice (H-2(d)) following the transplantation of bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from C57BL/6 (H-2(b)) donors. The object of the current study was to determine whether the TLI and anti-thymocyte serum regimen protected natural killer T-cell deficient CD1(-/-) BALB/c mice against GVHD after BM and PBMC transplantation from C57BL/6 donors, and whether a similar conditioning regimen of TLI and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) can prevent GVHD in Lewis rat (RT1(l)) hosts after BM and PBMC transplantation from ACI rat (RT1(a)) donors. The experimental results in mice showed that, although wild-type BALB/c hosts are protected in association with a marked increase in CD1- reactive T cells expressing the invariant TCR identified with a CD1 tetramer reagent; CD1(-/-) BALB/c hosts are not. Studies of chimeric donor cells in mice protected from GVHD showed donor T-cell polarization to a Th2 cytokine pattern. Results in rats showed that approximately 1000 fold more donor PBMC cells were required to induce a similar incidence of lethal GVHD in TLI and ATG conditioned hosts as compared with hosts conditioned with single-dose total-body irradiation or total-body irradiation and ATG. Surviving TLI and ATG conditioned rat hosts were complete chimeras. In conclusion, the TLI and ATG/anti-thymocyte serum conditioning regimen protects against GVHD in rats and mice, and regulatory natural killer T cells are required for protection.
Th1 and Th2 indices of the immune response in pigs vaccinated against Taenia solium cysticercosis suggest various host immune strategies against the parasite.	Kinetics of the production of serum antibody levels and Th1 (IL-2, IFN-gamma) and Th2 (IL-4, IL-10) cytokines was studied in five pigs vaccinated with a synthetic tri-peptide vaccine (S3Pvac) against Taenia solium, a vaccine that has been shown protects pigs against naturally acquired infection. Healthy pigs of mixed genetic background, similar to those bred in rural villages of Mexico, were vaccinated with S3Pvac or with adjuvant alone, kept in sanitary conditions and bled at different times after vaccination to study the development of their specific immune response. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of vaccinated pigs showed a significant increment in the production of Th1 cytokines (IL-2 and IFN-gamma) but not of Th2 cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10) after specific PBLs stimulation with all the individual peptides. A Th1-inclined cytokine profile leading to an exacerbated local inflammation at the early installation stage of the cysticercus may possibly interfere with their successful establishment in the serum antibodies against total cysticercus antigens and against each of the three different peptides comprising S3Pvac were detected 7-51 days after vaccination. Antibodies against GK-1 interfered with the cysticerci development into intestinal tapeworms in prednisolone-treated hamsters. The sub-lethal crippling effect of anti-GK-1 antibodies upon cysticerci indicates to a therapeutic application of S3Pvac in infected pigs having potential epidemiological consequences, as it could aid in decreasing the number of tapeworms expected to develop from the few cysticerci that survive in the vaccinated pigs.
The effect of IL-12 on clinical and laboratory aspects of experimental SLE in young and aging mice.	IL-12 plays a crucial role in a variety of immune responses that are involved in immuno-senesence and autoimmune diseases. Experimental SLE can be induced in mice by the monoclonal anti-DNA autoantibody bearing the 16/6Id. Aging mice are less susceptible to disease induction. We evaluated the in vivo effects of IL-12 on several parameters related to aging and to experimental SLE. Young (2 months) and aging (10 months) mice that were or were not immunized with the 16/6Id were treated with IL-12. IL-12 treated unimmunized BALB/c and C3H.SW mice had significant elevated levels of anti-DNA antibodies. A high percentage of these mice had glomerular immune complex deposits (ICD). IL-12 treatment resulted in significant increase of IL-1 and IFN-gamma and a decrease of IL-10 production in unimmunized mice. The same IL-12 induced changes were observed in mice with experimental SLE but were less pronounced than in normal mice. In general, all the effects in SLE afflicted mice were more prominent in aging than in young mice. Treatment of mice with experimental SLE upregulated IL-1, IL-2, IFNgamma and downregulated IL-10. These changes were observed in the groups of young as well as old mice. In conclusion, administration of IL-12 to aging mice reversed their Th1/Th2 cytokine profile and thus rendered them vulnerable to the induction of experimental SLE.
A potential role for CXCR3 chemokines in the response to ocular HSV infection.	Corneal infection with herpes simplex virus (HSV) leads to the recruitment of immune cells to the eye itself, the trigeminal ganglion and the brainstem. In addition, some resident cells in these target tissues are infected by HSV, activated during the inflammatory response or both. Chemokine signaling is an important component of the regulatory circuit governing the host immune response to virus infection. This review discusses chemokine responses in relation to HSV infection of the cornea emphasizing the role of CXCR3 chemokine signaling by the IFN-gamma inducible ligands MIG, IP10 and I-TAC and includes discussion of their potential role in immunopathology in the nervous system.
Investigating the impact of helminth products on immune responsiveness using a TCR transgenic adoptive transfer system.	Helminth infections and their products have a potent immunomodulatory effect on the host immune system and can impair immune responses against unrelated Ags. In vitro studies have suggested that the immunomodulation by helminth extracts may be the result of bystander response bias toward a Th2 phenotype and/or an Ag-specific T lymphocyte proliferative hyporesponsiveness. The aim of this study was to determine the role of these potential mechanisms of immunosuppression in vivo. Therefore, using a sensitive model of CFSE-labeled OVA-specific TCR transgenic T lymphocyte adoptive transfer, we analyzed the effect of Ascaris suum body fluid (ABF) on the kinetics and amplitude of a primary OVA-specific T cell response as well as the Th1/Th2 profile of the response in wild-type and IL-4 knockout (KO) mice. We find that inhibition of delayed-type hypersensitivity by ABF was associated with a Th1/Th2 shift in wild-type animals, but not in IL-4 KO mice. The use of this model has allowed us to demonstrate that although the kinetics of the OVA-specific primary response was not affected by ABF, the expansion of the OVA-specific T lymphocytes was significantly inhibited in both wild-type and IL-4 KO mice. This inhibition was associated with a reduced proliferative capacity of these cells in vivo, distinct from anergy.
T-cells mediate an inhibitory effect of interleukin-4 on osteoclastogenesis.	IL-4 is an important cytokine that can influence bone. We identified two distinct actions of IL-4 to inhibit osteoclast formation: one direct on osteoclast progenitors and the second through the production of a novel T-cell surface-associated molecule(s). These data show a new link between the immune system and bone. The Th2 cytokine interleukin (IL)-4 inhibits osteoclast formation in vitro but also acts on other cell types found in bone, including T-cells and macrophages. Because some osteoclastogenesis inhibitors (e.g., IL-12) act indirectly through T-cells, we investigated IL-4 action on osteoclastogenesis in the presence of T-cells. Osteoclast formation from murine spleen cells treated with RANKL and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) was blocked by IL-4 even when spleen cells were depleted of T-cells (Thy 1.2+) and/or B-cells (B220+). Also, IL-4 inhibited osteoclastogenesis in RANKL/M-CSF-stimulated adherent spleen cells, Rag1 -/- (lymphocyte-deficient) spleen cells, and bone marrow macrophages, indicating an action on myelomonocytic cells to block osteoclastogenesis. In contrast, IL-4 did not inhibit osteoclastogenesis in cells from IL-4 receptor null mice (IL-4R -/-). However, when wildtype T-cells were added to IL-4R -/- spleen cell cultures, IL-4 inhibited osteoclast formation, indicating a T-cell-dependent action. Osteoclast formation in RANKL-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells was not inhibited by IL-4 unless T-cells were added to the culture. Separation of RAW 264.7 cells and T-cells by semipermeable membrane ablated this action of IL-4, suggesting the induction of a membrane-associated osteoclastogenesis inhibitor. However, membrane-bound inhibitors thymic shared antigen-1 (TSA-1) and osteoclast inhibitory lectin (OCIL) were not regulated by IL-4. In summary, at least two mechanisms of IL-4 -mediated osteoclastogenesis inhibition exist, including a direct action on myelomonocytic progenitors (from which osteoclasts derive) and an indirect action through T-cells that may involve novel anti-osteoclastic factors.
Various types of Dirofilaria immitis polyproteins selectively induce a Th2-Type immune response.	Dirofilaria immitis polyproteins (DiAgs) are found as 15-kDa monomeric and 30-kDa dimeric forms in excretory-secretory products of the adult worm. We evaluated the ability of various types of recombinant DiAg (rDiAg; V1 and V2 as monomers and V1V2, V2V1, V1V1, and V2V2 as dimers) to influence Th1/Th2 immune responses. V1-, V1Vx- and V2-, V2Vx-driven nonspecific immunoglobulin E (IgE) production peaked at 21 and 14 days after administration, respectively. Dimer-induced IgE response was an interesting biphasic pattern with the second peaks on days 35 (V2Vx) or 42 (V1Vx). Absolute amounts of nonspecific IgE production induced with monomers were larger than those observed with dimers at the first peak. The magnitude of cell expansion and interleukin-10 (IL-10) production in mesenteric lymph node (MLN) B-cell induced with rDiAgs was linked to the levels of the first IgE peak in vivo and IgE produced by rDiAg plus IL-4-stimulated B cells in vitro. All rDiAgs failed to augment IgG2c production. V2 and V2Vx elicited IL-4 production by MLN cells more rapidly than V1 and V1Vx. The inhibitory effect of rDiAg on gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) production was stronger in monomers than in dimers. Neutralization of IL-10 restored IFN-gamma production, whereas the expression of IL-4 and IgE was partly prevented by depletion of IL-10. These results indicate that monomer rather than dimer is an efficient form of DiAg and suggest that the difference of IgE-inducing capacity among these DiAgs is closely associated with the pattern of both B-cell activation and IL-4 production.
Toll-like receptors and T-helper-1/T-helper-2 responses.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a family of pattern recognition receptors that are activated by specific components of microbes and certain host molecules. They constitute the first line of defense against many pathogens and play a crucial role in the function of the innate immune system. Recently, TLRs were observed to influence the development of adaptive immune responses, presumably by activating antigen-presenting cells. This has important implications for our understanding of how the host tailors its immune response as a function of specific pathogen recognition. The present review discusses the recent studies that demonstrate the role of TLRs in the regulation of adaptive T-helper-1 (Th1) and Th2 responses, and the mechanisms by which the effects are carried out.
WBC reduction of RBC transfusions is associated with a decreased incidence of RBC alloimmunization.	Allogeneic transfusion stimulates Th2 (humoral) immunity. A hypothesis was developed that WBC reduction, by reducing the Th2 stimulus associated with transfusions, might reduce RBC alloimmunization.
The Th2 theory in allergy: present and future directions]	Allergic diseases have been a model study for Th2 cells polarization and it is well known that the synthesis of the human IgE results from collaboration between Th2 and B cells through the cytokines such as IL-4 and IL-13 and surface molecules (CD40-CD40L). In the last decade, some surface molecules have been associated with human Th2 cells. Although recent studies suggest that the receptors of chemokines are the most related markers of Th2 cells, so far it has not found a specific marker to discriminate Th2 cells. The most recent studies suggest that Th1 and Th2 cells are not derived from different cellular lineages, but rather they can be derived from the same precursory Th cell and, under the influence of genetic environmental factors, they can be polarized. Also, some genes conferring susceptibility to production of Th2 cytokines have been located.
Selective loss of c-Rel compromises dendritic cell activation of T lymphocytes.	Dendritic cells initiate the immune response by presenting antigen in the context of varying levels of costimulation. The maturation state of the dendritic cell determines the quantity and quality (Th1, Th2) of the subsequent T cell response. Members of the NF-kappaB family of transcription factors have previously been implicated in dendritic cell development. Here, we used a mouse with a homozygous c-Rel deletion to investigate the role of c-Rel in the function of bone marrow derived dendritic cells. When direct presentation was evaluated, we found c-Rel(-/-) dendritic cells induce less allogeneic T cell stimulation than c-Rel(+/+) dendritic cells. In addition, T cell encounters with c-Rel(-/-) dendritic cells generate less IFN-gamma and IL-4 when compared to those with c-Rel(+/+) DCs. A similar degree of functional compromise was observed in antigen-specific T cells that were stimulated by c-Rel(-/-) dendritic cells. Functional deficits were not linked to differences in the ability to undergo maturation per se, as LPS exposure induced similar morphologic and cell surface changes in both c-Rel(+/+) and cRel(-/-) DCs. Although LPS induced a compensatory increase in the nuclear activity of fellow NF-kappaB family members, RelB and p65, LPS exposure was unable to negate the deficiencies in autologous T cell proliferation and cytokine production associated with the loss of c-Rel in dendritic cells. Taken together, our study supports a unique and non-redundant role for c-Rel in dendritic cell costimulatory capacity.
Modulation of the peripheral T-Cell response by CD4 mutants of hepatitis C virus: transition from a Th1 to a Th2 response.	A disturbing feature of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is its long-term persistence in roughly 85% of those infected. Escape mutants may play a major role in HCV persistence. Our previous studies have identified a human leukocyte antigen DRB1*15 (HLA-DRB1*15) restricted Th1 epitope in the HCV NS3 protein, NS3(358-375), and escape variants of this epitope that may emerge under immune selection. Such variants attenuate or fail to stimulate T-cell proliferation. Here we provide data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells derived from four HLA-DRB1*15 patients chronically infected with HCV, and report that naturally occurring single amino acid substitutions in the Th1 epitope NS3(358-375) fail to stimulate proliferation, which is accompanied by a shift in cytokine secretion patterns from one characteristic of a Th1 antiviral responses to a Th2 form. Further, in one patient, we demonstrate that HCV variant peptides can effectively inhibit host polyclonal peripheral T-cell proliferation. We speculate that this phenomenon may be a factor in chronic HCV infection.
Immune responses to heat shock protein in Porphyromonas gingivalis-infected periodontitis and atherosclerosis patients.	It has been widely thought that heat shock protein might be involved in autoimmune disease mechanisms in humans.
High expression of TIAF-1 in chronic kidney and liver allograft rejection and in activated T-helper cells.	T helper cells are important modulators of the allograft immune response. A small number of genes are already known to be differentially expressed in T helper 1 (Th1) and T helper 2 (Th2) cells, but it is likely that many other genes are functionally important. To study gene expression in Th1 and Th2 cells, we used serial analysis of gene expression. One of the differentially expressed genes was TIAF-1, which is a TGF-beta 1-induced antiapoptotic factor, known to inhibit the cytotoxic effects of tumor necrosis factor-alpha on mouse fibroblasts. We hypothesized that TIAF-1 plays a protective role against apoptosis during allograft rejection.
Cell-specific expression of B lymphocyte (APRIL, BLyS)- and Th2 (CD30L/CD153)-promoting tumor necrosis factor superfamily ligands in human placentas.	Apoptosis-inducing tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligands and receptors have been reported in human placentas, but the expression patterns of family members lacking this function [a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS), CD30L/CD153, CD40L/CD154, TNF-related activation-induced cytokine, CD27L/CD70, OX40L, activation-inducible TNF receptor ligand (AITRL)] are incompletely documented or unknown. We therefore investigated expression of these eight ligands and nine of their receptors (B cell maturation antigen, transmembrane activator and calcium-modulator and cyclophilin ligand-interactor, CD30, CD40, receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB, osteoprotegerin, CD27, OX40/CD134, AITR). Analysis by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed mRNAs encoding only three of the ligands (APRIL, BLyS, CD30L/CD153). Immunoblots demonstrated all three proteins in first-trimester and term placentas, and immunohistochemical experiments showed that expression was cell-specific and gestation-related. Although mRNAs encoding receptors for the three expressed ligands were absent, those encoding receptors for all of the unexpressed ligands were detectable. Collectively, the results are consistent with the postulate that nonapoptosis-inducing, placenta-derived TNF superfamily cytokines contribute to the T helper cell type 2 bias required for successful pregnancy. Patterns of placental expression of receptors suggest bidirectional maternal-fetal cytokine communication.
Strong polarization toward Th1 immune response in ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis.	Human immune response can be classified into 2 different subsets of T helper cells (Th1 and Th2) based on the pattern of cytokine production. In modern immunology, Th1/Th2 paradigm helps to explain the different inflammatory effector pathways and outcomes in human diseases. The present study was designed to determine the type of immunological response that influences anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-(ANCA) associated glomerulonephritis (GN) using cytokine analysis of peripheral T cells and diseased kidney tissues.
Pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus.	The exact patho-aetiology of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) remains elusive. An extremely complicated and multifactorial interaction among various genetic and environmental factors is probably involved. Multiple genes contribute to disease susceptibility. The interaction of sex, hormonal milieu, and the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis modifies this susceptibility and the clinical expression of the disease. Defective immune regulatory mechanisms, such as the clearance of apoptotic cells and immune complexes, are important contributors to the development of SLE. The loss of immune tolerance, increased antigenic load, excess T cell help, defective B cell suppression, and the shifting of T helper 1 (Th1) to Th2 immune responses leads to B cell hyperactivity and the production of pathogenic autoantibodies. Finally, certain environmental factors are probably required to trigger the disease.
Critical impact of the kinetics of dendritic cells activation on the in vivo induction of tumor-specific T lymphocytes.	Dendritic cells (DCs) need activation for the priming of antigen-specific immune responses. Recently activated DCs were described to prime in vitro strong T helper cell type 1 (Th(1)) responses, whereas at later time points, the same cells preferentially prime Th(2) cells [Langenkemp, A. et al., Nat. Immunol. 1: 311-316, 2000]. Because the immune response against cancer strongly depends on CTLs of Th(1)-like phenotype (Tc(1)), we verified here whether the kinetics of DCs activation also impacted on in vivo priming of tumor-specific CTLs. After pulsing with the CTL epitope TRP-2(180-188), bone-marrow-derived DCs, exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 8 h (8hDC), elicited a more powerful Tc(1) response in C57BL/6 mice than did untreated DCs, or DCs exposed to LPS for 48 h (48hDC). Indeed, 8hDCs were the most potent protective and therapeutic vaccine against B16 melanoma. Despite a higher expression of MHC and costimulatory molecules by 48hDCs, 8hDCs and 48hDCs showed comparable allostimulatory and migration potential, and susceptibility to CTL-mediated apoptosis. However, 8hDCs exhibited a significantly higher interleukin (IL)-12 production potential. Release of IL-12 was necessary to induce potent Tc(1) cells, because DCs from IL-12p40(-/-) mice, irrespective of their maturation level, generated low CTL responses, comparable with 48hDCs and 0hDCs from wild-type animals. Our data are relevant for the design of DC-based vaccines.
Atopic dermatitis and cathepsin E]	Cathepsin E is an intracellular aspartic proteinase expressed predominantly in immune cells and skin. We show that cathepsin E-deficient mice spontaneously develop atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin lesions comparable to human AD when kept under conventional circumstances, but not under specific pathogen-free conditions. These mice displayed AD-associated phenotypes including eosinophilia; increased serum IgE, IL-18, and IL-1beta; and enhanced production of Th2 cytokines. Cathepsin E deficiency also resulted in greater decrease of the rate of degradation for serum IL-18 and IL-1beta. Interestingly, cathepsin E levels in blood cells were significantly decreased in AD patients and the AD model NC/Nga mice compared to healthy donors and the control mice, respectively. Our results indicate that deficiency or defective production of cathepsin E strongly induces AD in humans and mice, probably due to the systemic accumulation of IL-18 and IL-1beta, leading to stimulation of Th2 responses, and that cathepsin E-deficient mice are a newly discovered model to analyze pathologic mechanisms of human AD.
Anti-IgE and future treatments for respiratory allergies]	Immediate hypersensitivity remains the fundamental mechanism of respiratory allergy, emphasizing the importance of the antigen-immunoglobulin (IgE) reaction. Development of innovating treatments has naturally centered on a search for compounds inhibiting the IgE response, in particular anti-IgE antibodies. Humanized anti-IgE antibodies have been recently developed for administration in humans. These antibodies are designed to form complexes with circulating IgE which can be eliminated. The first trials have demonstrated an efficacy in allergic asthma, expressed by a significant decrease in consumption of systemic steroids in severe asthma. Other work has also showed a lower number of hospitalizations for acute asthma. Other therapeutic approaches have focused on limiting the production of IgE by an effect on the auxiliary lymphocyte balance, or more generally, by inhibiting the Th2 response while favoring the Th1 response. Early results obtained with anti-IL-5 were disappointing since the decrease in the eosinophilic response was not associated with any alteration in bronchial hyperreactivity. Administration of IL-12 has given similar results but the first trials with nebulized anti-IL-4 are more promising.
Induction of autoantigen-specific Th2 and Tr1 regulatory T cells and modulation of autoimmune diabetes.	Autoantigen-based immunotherapy can modulate autoimmune diabetes, perhaps due to the activation of Ag-specific regulatory T cells. Studies of these regulatory T cells should help us understand their roles in diabetes and aid in designing a more effective immunotherapy. We have used class II MHC tetramers to isolate Ag-specific T cells from nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice and BALB/c mice treated with glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 peptides (p206 and p221). Based on their cytokine secretion profiles, immunization of NOD mice with the same peptide induced different T cell subsets than in BALB/c mice. Treatment of NOD mice induced not only Th2 cells but also IFN-gamma/IL-10-secreting T regulatory type 1 (Tr1) cells. Adoptive transfer experiments showed that isolated tetramer(+) T cells specific for p206 or p221 could inhibit diabetes development. These cells were able to suppress the in vitro proliferation of other NOD mouse T cells without cell-cell contact. They performed their regulatory functions probably by secreting cytokines, and Abs against these cytokines could block their suppressive effect. Interestingly, the presence of both anti-IL-10 and anti-IFN-gamma could enhance the target cell proliferation, suggesting that Tr1 cells play an important role. Further in vivo experiments showed that the tetramer(+) T cells could block diabetogenic T cell migration into lymph nodes. Therefore, treatment of NOD mice with autoantigen could induce Th2 and Tr1 regulatory cells that can suppress the function and/or block the migration of other T cells, including diabetogenic T cells, and inhibit diabetes development.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide signaling through Toll-like receptor 4 suppresses asthma-like responses via nitric oxide synthase 2 activity.	Asthma results from an intrapulmonary allergen-driven Th2 response and is characterized by intermittent airway obstruction, airway hyperreactivity, and airway inflammation. An inverse association between allergic asthma and microbial infections has been observed. Microbial infections could prevent allergic responses by inducing the secretion of the type 1 cytokines, IL-12 and IFN-gamma. In this study, we examined whether administration of bacterial LPS, a prototypic bacterial product that activates innate immune cells via the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) could suppress early and late allergic responses in a murine model of asthma. We report that LPS administration suppresses the IgE-mediated and mast cell-dependent passive cutaneous anaphylaxis, pulmonary inflammation, airway eosinophilia, mucus production, and airway hyperactivity. The suppression of asthma-like responses was not due to Th1 shift as it persisted in IL-12(-/-) or IFN-gamma(-/-) mice. However, the suppressive effect of LPS was not observed in TLR4- or NO synthase 2-deficient mice. Our findings demonstrate, for the first time, that LPS suppresses Th2 responses in vivo via the TLR4-dependent pathway that triggers NO synthase 2 activity.
Clara cell secretory protein modulates lung inflammatory and immune responses to respiratory syncytial virus infection.	Clara cell secretory protein (CCSP) has been shown to have anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory functions in the lung. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of respiratory infection in infants and young children. RSV usually infects small airways and likely interacts with the Clara cells of bronchioles. To determine a possible role for CCSP during acute RSV infection, CCSP-deficient (CCSP(-/-)) and wild-type (WT) mice were intratracheally infected with RSV and the lung inflammatory and immune responses to RSV infection were assessed. RSV-F gene expression was increased in the lungs of CCSP(-/-) mice as compared with WT mice following RSV infection, consistent with increased viral persistence. Lung inflammation was significantly increased in CCSP(-/-) mice as compared with WT mice after infection. Moreover, although the levels of Th1 cytokines were similar, the levels of Th2 cytokines and neutrophil chemokines were increased in the lungs of CCSP(-/-) mice following infection. Physiologic endpoints of exacerbated lung disease, specifically airway reactivity and mucus production, were increased in CCSP(-/-) mice after RSV infection. Importantly, restoration of CCSP in the airways of CCSP(-/-) mice abrogated the increased viral persistence, lung inflammation, and airway reactivity. These findings suggest a role for CCSP and Clara cells in regulating lung inflammatory and immune responses to RSV infection.
Bronchoalveolar lavage cytokine profiles in acute asthma and acute bronchiolitis.	The pathogenetic basis for the relationship between acute bronchiolitis and asthma has not yet been completely elucidated.
TNF-alpha contributes to the development of allergic rhinitis in mice.	Allergic rhinitis is an inflammation involving T(H)2-type cytokine production, with pathologic eosinophil infiltration in the nasal mucosa. Although TNF-alpha is thought to be a pro-inflammatory cytokine, the relationship between TNF-alpha and allergic rhinitis has not been clarified.
Persistent protective effect of heat-killed Escherichia coli producing "engineered," recombinant peanut proteins in a murine model of peanut allergy.	Peanut allergy (PNA) is a life-threatening food allergy for which there is no definitive treatment.
Chemical-specific properties co-determine the type of adverse immune response.	Many drugs but also environmental pollutants may cause adverse reactions in susceptible individuals that are reminiscent of autoimmune syndromes. Apart from a number of predisposing often inherent, idiosyncratic determinants, chemical-specific properties might be involved as well. Notably, reactive chemicals or metabolites may provoke formation or release of immunosensitizing neo-antigens (a.o. hapten-carrier complexes or cryptic epitopes). In addition reactive chemicals but also certain inert chemicals may trigger macrophages and other inflammatory cells to release proinflammatory products that, via elicitation of costimulatory help, support hapten- or neo-antigen-specific T cell activation. In addition, chemicals may influence immunoregulatory processes and modulate for instance the balance between type 1 and type 2 responses. Here, we review data showing that chemically induced upregulation of second or costimulatory signals co-determines not only whether, but also what type of an adverse immune response (type 1 or type 2) is triggered.
Colonic epithelial functional phenotype varies with type and phase of experimental colitis.	Colonic crypt elongation occurs during both chronic colitis and in the recovery phase of acute colitis. The impact of these alterations on epithelial cell functions is not fully defined.
Cytomegalovirus M43 gene modulates T helper cell response.	Role of viral genes in modulating T helper 1 (Th1) and T helper 2 (Th2) balance is of principal interest in the study of cytomegalovirus (CMV) immunity. Murine CMV (MCMV) mutants were used to explore a possible mechanism for the ability of virus to induce a predominant Th1 response and to suppress Th2 response by examining the production of Th1 (IFN-gamma, IL-2) and Th2 (IL-4, IL-10) cytokines by the splenocytes of mice infected with wild type (WT) and MCMV mutants. Results (n=6) show that as compared with WT, the MCMV mutant with specific disruption of M43 gene upregulates the production of IL-4 (P=0.0002) and to a lesser extent IL-10 (P=0.015) at 14 days post infection. This indicates that M43 gene may play a role in suppressing Th2 (IL-4) production, especially in the later stage of infection. The IL-4 and IL-10 production during infection with M43 mutant occurs in the presence of a strong IFN-gamma (Th1) response, overriding the cross-regulatory effects of these cytokines within the Th1/Th2 paradigm and suggesting that the predominant response during CMV infection is still a Th1 type response.
Class and subclass selection in parasite-specific antibody responses.	Antibodies are characteristically induced in many parasitic infection processes. The class and subclass of the antibody response is instrumental because each isotype has a distinct biological function. It is thus crucially important for an infected individual to mount the most appropriate secondary antibody response--that is the response that has the best chance of clearing the infection and/or controlling disease. This represents a fundamental of vaccine strategies. Immuno-epidemiological surveys and in vitro models of antibody production have helped to understand some of the goals which should be achieved when designing antiparasitic vaccines.
Normal intrinsic Th1/Th2 balance in patients with chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia not treated with interferon-alpha or imatinib.	CD4+ T helper cells are an integral part of effective immune responses against various malignancies; however in tumor-bearing patients they are frequently functionally unresponsive. T helper cells of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), analyzed as part of mononuclear cell fractions, show a loss of signaling molecules, a compromised Th1 cytokine production and a shift towards a non-productive Th2 state. The underlying mechanism is unknown and may involve intrinsic T cell defects as well as indirect effects mediated by leukemia or antigen-presenting cells. The purpose of the present study was to analyze the intrinsic cytokine-producing capacity of purified CML T helper cells in the absence of other cell types.
Differential regulation of cytokine gene expression by avian heterophils during receptor-mediated phagocytosis of opsonized and nonopsonized Salmonella enteritidis.	Internalization of pathogens by phagocytic cells triggers the innate immune response, which in turn regulates the acquired response. Phagocytes express a variety of receptors that are involved in recognition of pathogens, including (1) pattern recognition receptors (PRR), which recognize conserved motifs, (2) complement receptors (CR), which recognize complement-opsonized pathogens, and (3) Fc receptors (FcR), which recognize antibody-opsonized pathogens. Recognition of microbes is accompanied by the induction of multiple cell processes, including the production of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The objective of the present experiments was to use probes to known avian proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and TaqMan technology to ascertain levels of cytokine gene expression in avian heterophils following receptor-mediated phagocytosis of either nonopsonized Salmonella enteritidis (SE), serum-opsonized SE, or IgG-opsonized SE. Expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8, considered in mammals as a proinflammatory chemokine, were upregulated following exposure to the nonopsonized or the opsonized SE. However, mRNA expression for IL-18 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was downregulated, and the expression of mRNA for the anti-inflammatory cytokine transforming growth factor-beta4 (TGF-beta 4) was upregulated. Interestingly, IL-1beta mRNA expression was significantly upregulated in heterophils that phagocytized either the nonopsonized SE via PRRs or IgG-opsonized SE via FcRs, whereas serum-opsonized SE phagocytized by CRs induced a downregulation of IL-1beta mRNA. These results suggest that signaling interactions initiated by receptor recognition of the microbe surface differentially regulate the induction of inflammatory cytokines in avian heterophils.
Glatiramer acetate-reactive peripheral blood mononuclear cells respond to multiple myelin antigens with a Th2-biased phenotype.	One favored mechanism of action of glatiramer acetate (GA) in multiple sclerosis (MS) involves the induction of GA-reactive Th2 cells that are believed to enter the central nervous system and mediate bystander suppression in response to cross-reactive myelin antigens. To test this hypothesis, we examined the proliferative response and cytokine release from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 12 MS patients treated with GA, in response to 16 myelin peptides that were previously described as immunodominant or encephalitogenic and a tetanus peptide as a control antigen. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and IL-5 (markers of Th1 and Th2 responses, respectively) were assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). GA-stimulated PBMCs from 9 of 12 patients (75%) proliferated to one or more myelin peptides. Among the 16 peptides tested, GA-stimulated PBMCs from the majority of the patients proliferated in response to MOG(21-44). PBMCs from two thirds of the patients produced IL-5 in response to myelin peptides, while half of them produced IFN-gamma. Th1/Th0/Th2 cytokine phenotypes demonstrated that responses from 10 of 12 patients were either Th0- or Th2-biased. Responses from two patients were Th1-biased. Conversely, some myelin-specific T-cell lines (TCLs) responded to GA by proliferation (3 of 21 TCLs), IL-5 release (11 of 21 TCLs), and IFN-gamma release (3 of 21 TCLs). These results indicate that GA-reactive TCLs can respond to a spectrum of myelin peptides in a Th2-biased fashion, which is consistent with the concept of bystander suppression. Furthermore, some myelin-specific TCLs are able to recognize GA, with a tendency to produce more IL-5 than IFN-gamma, which would suggest a systemic modulatory effect of the drug.
The CD28 related molecule ICOS: T cell modulation in the presence and absence of B7.1/2 and regulational expression in multiple sclerosis.	Costimulatory signals play a key role in regulating T cell activation and are believed to have decisive influence in the inciting and perpetuating cellular effector mechanisms in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Inducible costimulator protein (ICOS), a recently identified member of the CD28-family, presumably affects the differentiation of Th1/Th2 cells after primary activation and modulates the immune response of effector/memory T cells. This study examines the expression and functional role of ICOS costimulation in healthy donors and patients with MS. After nonspecific or antigen-specific stimulation, ICOS is preferentially expressed on CD4 Th2-T cells. ICOS-costimulation affects the production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines both in the absence and presence of B7/CD28 costimulation, thus suggesting that ICOS costimulation can modulate cytokine secretion also in a CD28-independent manner. Levels of constitutive and inducible ICOS expression on human T cell subsets from peripheral blood were quantified in healthy donors and patients with MS. Constitutive expression of ICOS on T cells varies between 0.1% and 42.3%. There were no significant differences between both groups in the baseline expression or inducibility of ICOS on CD4 or CD8 T cells. ICOS expression could be demonstrated on CSF T lymphocytes in patients with acute MS relapses but was not elevated compared with peripheral blood. In essence we show that ICOS is upregulated on human T cells after stimulation and can modulate both Th1 and Th2 cytokine production in the absence and presence of B7-costimulation. In MS patients we demonstrate the functionality of the ICOS costimulatory pathway. Potential implications of ICOSL/ICOS interactions for MS immunopathogenesis are discussed.
Changes in peripheral blood Th1/Th2 cell balance in patients with condyloma acuminatum.	To explore the association of peripheral blood T helper type 1 (Th1) and type 2 (Th2) imbalance with the occurrence of condyloma acuminatum (CA).
Fractional analysis of Th2-type cytokines in sequential samples of induced sputum.	Recent studies have demonstrated the usefulness of induced sputum in detecting the expression of Th2-type cytokines in asthmatics and have shown that the profile of inflammatory cells in induced sputum differs with time.
DNA vaccines: influenza virus challenge of a Th2/Tc2 immune response results in a Th2/Tc1 response in the lung.	For this study, we used DNA-based immunizations to elicit gamma interferon-producing (Tc1) or interleukin 4 (IL-4)-producing (Tc2) CD8 T cells to the influenza virus nucleoprotein. We examined the response of these cells to an intranasal viral challenge. Both the Tc2- and Tc1-biased responses were present in mice with predominantly IL-4-producing (Th2) CD4 T cells. After viral challenge, Tc1 cells underwent more efficient expansion than did Tc2 cells, and only Tc1 cells were detected at the site of infection. In contrast, the CD4 response remained IL-4 biased. However, only a limited number of CD4 cells appeared in the postchallenge lung, and these were strongly enriched for the Th1 phenotype. Thus, the type of memory T-cell response induced by DNA vaccination does not determine the type of response that will predominate at the site of an infection.
The anti-inflammatory effects of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on Th2 cells in vivo are due in part to the control of integrin-mediated T lymphocyte homing.	The fat soluble vitamin D3 metabolite 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)], and its nuclear receptor play an important role in regulating immune responses. While 1,25(OH)(2)D(3 )is known to inhibit transcription of cytokine genes that are required for Th1 differentiation or are products of differentiated Th1 cells, its role in regulating differentiation of Th2 cells is less clear. In this study, we show that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) has anti-inflammatory effects in an in vivo Th2-dependent asthma model. In addition, we demonstrate that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3 )down-regulates the cytoskeleton rearrangement required for promoting integrin-mediated adhesion of naive and effector CD4(+) T cells. Finally, 1,25(OH)(2)D(3 )inhibits chemokine-induced migration of naive cells and their homing to the lymph nodes. Thus, in addition to its regulation of cytokine transcription, 1,25(OH)(2)D(3 )regulates migration of cells and thus controls the skewing of various Th subsets in the secondary lymphoid organs and inhibits Th function at sites of inflammation.
NF-kappa B synergizes with NF-AT and NF-IL6 in activation of the IL-4 gene in T cells.	IL-4 plays a pivotal role in the development of the Th2 cell mediated humoral immune response and causes IgE-dependent allergic inflammatory diseases. Expression of IL-4 in differentiated Th2 cells is regulated by transcription factors such as NF-AT, AP-1 and NF-IL6. Recently, increasing evidence indicates that the pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-kappa B may also participate inIL-4 expression. In this study, we show that the IL-4 promoter is synergistically activated by NF-kappa B, NF-AT and NF-IL6 at the NF-kappa B/NF-AT/NF-IL6 composite sites. In addition, we performed the chromatin immunoprecipitation technique to determine the functional relevance of NF-kappa B in the activation of the IL-4 gene in vivo. We demonstrate that NF-kappa B binds to the IL-4 promoter in vivo upon T cell activation. Inhibition of NF-kappa B nuclear translocation in living cells blocked binding of NF-kappa B to the IL-4 promoter. The data provide first evidence that NF-kappa B is directly involved in IL-4 transcription.
Low levels of immunoglobulin A in children with intrinsic asthma: a possible protection against atopy.	Immunoglobulin A and G (IgA, IgG) serum concentrations were detected in children with nonallergic/intrinsic (36 children) or allergic/extrinsic asthma (43 children) and in age-matching control children (40 children). Asthmatic children with allergic asthma had lower IgA (1.36+/-0.54 g/L) and higher IgG (10.48+/-2.77 g/L) levels than the age-matching control children group (1.63+/-0.69 vs. 9.01+/-2.32 g/L). Children with nonallergic/intrinsic asthma had lower IgA (1.03+/-0.41 g/L) ( p = 0.004) and IgG (8.38+/-1.93 g/L) (p = 0.001) levels than the allergic/extrinsic asthma group (1.36+/-0.54 vs. 10.48+/-2.77 g/L). Low IgA levels were found in children with nonallergic/intrinsic asthma and high IgG levels were found in those children with allergic/extrinsic childhood asthma. The hypothesis is that the increased incidence of asthma in the population may be caused by a decrease in childhood infections (hygiene hypothesis). Frequent infections in early life boost the immune system, stimulating Th1-type response in young children and reducing the risk of atopic diseases. Our hypothesis is that low IgA (and/or IgG) levels in our patients might be responsible for infection development among those children with nonallergic/intrinsic asthma. These infections stimulate the normal development of immune system in young children, reducing risk of atopy, so that those children do not get allergic/extrinsic childhood asthma. Intrinsic childhood asthma=nonallergic (nonatopic) childhood asthma. Extrinsic childhood asthma=allergic (atopic) childhood asthma.
Is IgA nephropathy induced by hyperproduction of interferon-alpha?	The frequent occurrence of tonsillitis or upper respiratory tract infections preceeding exacerbations of haematuria in IgA nephropathy (IgAN) suggests a relationship to the pathogenesis. Since it has been shown that release of type I interferon (IFN-alpha) can promote the release of BAFF which aids maturation of B lymphocytes, and IFN-alpha is released as part of innate immunity to pathogens of the upper respiratory tract, it is suggested than IFN-alpha may trigger the pathogenic process of IgAN. How cells in the tonsils contribute and whether Il-6 formation in the lungs also helps development of Th.2 lymphocytes are to be considered.
The biology of the mast cell.	Mast cells are ancient, versatile immune effector cells. On the one hand, they are endowed with unique effector capabilities and activation responses that initiate innate immunity to bacteria and are essential to host defense against helminthic parasites. On the other hand, they are the major effector of type I hypersensitivity and an important participant in a number of disease processes. This review focuses on the mechanisms of mast cell development, the cytokine control of this process, and the amplification of mast cell effector systems as an important determinant of disease.
Antitumoral action of interferons and interleukins in combination with radiotherapy. Part I: immunologic basis]	During the last 2 decades, cytokines such as interferons (IFN) have been used to modulate tumor response in radiotherapy. Initially, the focus was on antiviral and radiosensitizing effects of interferons but increasingly, the function of interferons and interleukins (IL) within the immune response to tumor cells is becoming important.
Evolution of the interleukins.	As the adaptive immune system arose in jawed vertebrates, a reasonable working hypothesis is that cytokines involved exclusively in controlling the adaptive immune system, e.g. T1 and T2 cytokines, will only be found in jawed vertebrates whilst those with a role in innate responses, e.g. type I IFNs or pro-inflammatory cytokines, will be universal, or have functional equivalents in 'lower' animals. Progress to date in cloning cytokines, including interleukins, in vertebrates outside of mammals is limited and non-existent in invertebrates. T1 and T2 interleukins have only been cloned in birds. Receptors for T1 and T2 interleukins have been cloned in fish, however, suggesting the presence of the corresponding interleukins. Pro-inflammatory interleukins have been cloned in birds, fish and amphibia, but not reptiles. Cross-reactive bioassays, polyclonal antisera and mAbs suggest that an IL-6-like factor exists in starfish, as yet the only evidence for innate immune response cytokines in 'lower' animals.
Potent, long lasting systemic antibody levels and mixed Th1/Th2 immune response after nasal immunization with malaria antigen loaded PLGA microparticles.	The immunogenicity of the synthetic malaria vaccine SPf66 has been recently improved by the application of new adjuvants as QS-21 saponin or poly-D,L-lactide-co-glycolide (PLGA) polymers. The search for less invasive administration routes made us test the immunogenicity of SPf66-loaded microparticles by the nasal route in Balb/c mice. We report here that the intranasal administration of the adequate PLGA vaccine formulations greatly improves and maintains higher antibody levels compared to the conventional alum adjuvant and to the administration of the particles by other routes (subcutaneous, oral). Systemic immune responses were characterized as mixed Th1/Th2-type: IFN-gamma and IgG2a isotype were found as signs of Th1 activation, whilst IgE and IgG1 secretions indicate Th2 response. Since both types of response have been associated to protective immunity in malaria, we postulate that this new approach supposes an advantage over the traditional adjuvants and routes.
Formalin-inactivated bovine RSV vaccine enhances a Th2 mediated immune response in infected cattle.	Safe RSV vaccine development has challenged the medical community since a formalin-killed RSV vaccine caused disease exacerbation in the 1960s. Disease was replicated using the bovine RSV system in one of two studies. The studies differed in viral protein dose and length of time between vaccination and infection. Disease exacerbation occurred in study 2 (previously reported). We hypothesized that low protein concentration in study 2's vaccine stimulated a TH2/IgE response that enhanced disease. BRSV-specific IgG1, IgG2, and IgE were measured by ELISA/Western blot from vaccinated/infected, vaccinated/mock infected, mock vaccinated/infected calves in both studies. Results revealed that study 2 calves produced more IgE, particularly to the nucleoprotein (N); IgE among study 2 calves correlated with high clinical scores. In contrast, study 1 calves showed stronger IgG responses to viral proteins.
The ratio of interleukin (IL)-18 to IL-12 secreted by peripheral blood mononuclear cells is increased in normal pregnant subjects and decreased in pre-eclamptic patients.	Interleukin (IL)-18 acts in synergy with IL-12 to promote development of T helper 1 (Th1) responses. On the other hand, IL-18 alone has the capacity to induce Th2 responses. Here, we have measured IL-18 and IL-12 secretion by non-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 17 non-pregnant women, 21 healthy pregnant women, 9 mildly pre-eclamptic patients and 15 severely pre-eclamptic patients. Th1/Th2 ratios in PBMC were determined by flow cytometry. PBMC from healthy pregnant subjects secreted more IL-18 and less IL-12 than non-pregnant women. PBMC from severely pre-eclamptic patients secreted more IL-12 than those from healthy pregnant women, while IL-18 secretion in mildly pre-eclamptic patients resembled that in normal pregnancy. The ratios of IL-18 to IL-12 were significantly higher in healthy pregnant women than non-pregnant women. These ratios were significantly lower in severely pre-eclamptic cases than in normal pregnancy subjects, while these ratios in mild pre-eclampsia resembled those in normal pregnancy. Interestingly, Th1/Th2 ratios were negatively correlated with the ratios of IL-18/IL-12. These results suggest that elevated IL-18 secretion and decreased IL-12 secretion by PBMC may induce Th2 dominance in normal pregnancy, while elevated secretion of both IL-18 and IL-12 by PBMC may cause Th1 dominance in severe pre-eclampsia.
Cellular FLIP long form-transgenic mice manifest a Th2 cytokine bias and enhanced allergic airway inflammation.	Cellular FLIP long form (c-FLIP(L)) is a caspase-defective homologue of caspase-8 that blocks apoptosis by death receptors. The expression of c-FLIP(L) in T cells can also augment extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation after TCR ligation via the association of c-FLIP(L) with Raf-1. This contributes to the hyperproliferative capacity of T cells from c-FLIP(L)-transgenic mice. In this study we show that activated CD4(+) T cells from c-FLIP(L)-transgenic mice produce increased amounts of Th2 cytokines and decreased amounts of Th1 cytokines. This correlates with increased serum concentrations of the Th2-dependent IgG1 and IgE. The Th2 bias of c-FLIP(L)-transgenic CD4(+) T cells parallels impaired NF-kappa B activity and increased levels of GATA-3, which contribute, respectively, to decreased IFN-gamma and increased Th2 cytokines. The Th2 bias of c-FLIP(L)-transgenic mice extends to an enhanced sensitivity to OVA-induced asthma. Taken together, these results show that c-FLIP(L) can influence cytokine gene expression to promote Th2-driven allergic reaction, in addition to its traditional role of blocking caspase activation induced by death receptors.
A Toll-like receptor 2 ligand stimulates Th2 responses in vivo, via induction of extracellular signal-regulated kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase and c-Fos in dendritic cells.	The adaptive immune system can generate distinct classes of responses, but the mechanisms that determine this are poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that different Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands induce distinct dendritic cell (DC) activation and immune responses in vivo. Thus, Escherichia coli LPS (TLR-4 stimulus), activates DCs to produce abundant IL-12(p70), but little IL-10, and stimulates Th1 and Tc1 responses. In contrast, Pam-3-cys (TLR-2 stimulus) elicits less IL-12(p70), but abundant IL-10, and favors Th2 and T cytotoxic 2 (Tc2) responses. These distinct responses likely occur via differences in extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling in DCs. Thus, Pam-3-cys induces enhanced extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling, compared with LPS, resulting in suppressed IL-12(p70) and enhanced IL-10 production, as well as enhanced induction of the transcription factor, c-Fos. Interestingly, DCs from c-fos(-/-) mice produce more IL-12(p70), but less IL-10, compared with control DCs. Therefore, different TLR ligands induce distinct cytokines and signaling in DCs, and differentially bias Th responses in vivo.
Active protein kinase B regulates TCR responsiveness by modulating cytoplasmic-nuclear localization of NFAT and NF-kappa B proteins.	T cell activation leads to the induction of the transcription factors of the NFAT and NF-kappa B families, important regulators of T cell activation and function. In this study we demonstrate that TCR/CD3-stimulated T cells from mice expressing a constitutively active form of protein kinase B (myr PKB alpha) lack significant nuclear accumulation/shuttling of NFATc1 and NFATp as well as NF-kappa Bp65 and RelB proteins. Notably, despite this deficit in nuclear NFAT and NF-kappa B proteins, myr PKB T cells show lower activation threshold for proliferation, enhanced cell cycle progression and increased production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines similar to signals provided by CD28 costimulation. The enhanced T cell response correlates with increased expression of cyclins D3 and B1 and cytokine-induced Src homology 2 protein, and inactivation of the forkhead transcription factor FKHR. In addition, coimmunoprecipitation studies indicate a direct regulation of NFATc1 by active PKB. Together, our results demonstrate that the positive regulatory role of myr PKB on TCR responsiveness, subsequent cell division, and effector function is linked to a negative regulatory mechanism on the nuclear accumulation/shuttling of NFAT and NF-kappa B proteins.
Helicobacter pylori-specific antibodies impair the development of gastritis, facilitate bacterial colonization, and counteract resistance against infection.	In recent years, Abs have been considered a correlate rather than an effector of resistance against Helicobacter pylori infection. However, it is still poorly understood to what extent Ab production correlates with gastric immunopathology. Here we report that Abs not only are dispensable for protection, but they are detrimental to elimination of the bacteria and appear to impair gastric inflammatory responses. We found that the initial colonization with H. pylori bacteria was normal in the B cell-deficient (microMT) mice, whereas at later times (>8 wk) most of the bacteria were cleared, concomitant with the development of severe gastritis. In contrast, wild-type (WT) mice exhibited extensive bacterial colonization and only mild gastric inflammation, even at 16 wk after inoculation. Oral immunizations with H. pylori lysate and cholera toxin adjuvant stimulated comparable levels of protection in microMT and WT mice. The level of protection in both strains correlated well with the severity of the postimmunization gastritis. Thus, T cells were responsible for the gastritis, whereas Abs, including potentially host cell cross-reactive Abs, were not involved in causing the gastritis. The T cells in micro MT and WT mice produced high and comparable levels of IFN-gamma to recall Ag at 2 and after 8 wk, whereas IL-4 was detected after 8 wk only, indicating that Th1 activity dominated the early phase of protection, whereas later a mixed Th1 and Th2 activity was seen.
Identification of multiple HLA-DR-restricted epitopes of the tumor-associated antigen CAMEL by CD4+ Th1/Th2 lymphocytes.	CD4(+) Th cells play an important role in the induction and maintenance of adequate CD8(+) T cell-mediated antitumor responses. Therefore, identification of MHC class II-restricted tumor antigenic epitopes is of major importance for the development of effective immunotherapies with synthetic peptides. CAMEL and NY-ESO-ORF2 are tumor Ags translated in an alternative open reading frame from the highly homologous LAGE-1 and NY-ESO-1 genes, respectively. In this study, we investigated whether CD4(+) T cell responses could be induced in vitro by autologous, mature dendritic cells pulsed with recombinant CAMEL protein. The data show efficient induction of CAMEL-specific CD4(+) T cells with mixed Th1/Th2 phenotype in two healthy donors. Isolation of CD4(+) T cell clones from the T cell cultures of both donors led to the identification of four naturally processed HLA-DR-binding CAMEL epitopes: CAMEL(1-20), CAMEL(14-33), CAMEL(46-65), and CAMEL(81-102). Two peptides (CAMEL(1-20) and CAMEL(14-33)) also contain previously identified HLA class I-binding CD8(+) T cell epitopes shared by CAMEL and NY-ESO-ORF2 and are therefore interesting tools to explore for immunotherapy. Furthermore, two CD4(+) T cell clones that recognized the CAMEL(14-33) peptide with similar affinities were shown to differ in recognition of tumor cells. These CD4(+) T cell clones recognized the same minimal epitope and expressed similar levels of adhesion, costimulatory, and inhibitory molecules. TCR analysis demonstrated that these clones expressed identical TCR beta-chains, but different complementarity-determining region 3 loops of the TCR alpha-chains. Introduction of the TCRs into proper recipient cells should reveal whether the different complementarity-determining region 3 alpha loops are important for tumor cell recognition.
Regulation of CD3, CD4 and CD8 expressions on PMA-activated human peripheral T cells]	To investigate the effect of mitogen Phorbol 12-myristate 13-Acetate (PMA) on CD3, CD4 and CD8 expression of human T-lymphocytes.
Co-delivery of pro-apoptotic BAX with a DNA vaccine recruits dendritic cells and promotes efficacy of autoimmune diabetes prevention in mice.	Genetic vaccines encoding pancreatic beta cell antigens can prevent autoimmune (type 1) diabetes when delivered into murine model systems, but there is a need to improve their efficacy. Here, we investigated the effects of intramuscular delivery of DNA coding for the pro-apoptotic protein BAX together with an intracellular or a secreted form of the beta cell antigen glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) on diabetes onset and immune responses in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice. We hypothesized that induction of apoptosis in vaccine-containing cells could lead to GAD tolerance and disease suppression. Remarkably, monitoring of spontaneous diabetes onset indicated that only delivery of DNA coding for secreted GAD and BAX resulted in significant prevention of the disease. Using GFP as a model plasmid-encoded antigen revealed that co-delivery of BAX resulted in the recruitment of GFP-containing dendritic cells (DCs) in the draining lymph nodes and spleen of NOD mice. Furthermore, data indicated that subcellular localization of GAD had an effect on both the number and function of antigen presenting cells (APCs) recruited by BAX as well as on IFN-gamma secretion, and that diabetes suppression was unlikely to be caused by increased T helper 2 (Th2)-like activity. Our results indicate that, under certain conditions, co-delivery of DNA encoding BAX can improve the efficacy of genetic vaccination for prevention of pathogenic autoimmunity via a mechanism likely to involve modulation of antigen presenting cell function. In addition, our data also suggest that properties associated with subcellular localization of an antigen in apoptotic cells can have a significant effect on induced immune responses.
Mouse strain-dependent differences in enhancement of immune responses by C3d.	Our laboratory has demonstrated that conjugating the complement protein, C3d, to an antigen is an effective method for eliciting high titer, long-lasting antibodies. The use of C3d as a molecular adjuvant is quite effective in enhancing the efficacy of DNA vaccines expressing the envelope (Env) protein of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). However, our previous studies have examined the effectiveness of C3d conjugated vaccines in BALB/c mice. In this study, one outbred strain and three different inbred strains of mice were vaccinated with plasmids expressing a secreted form of Env (sgp120) fused to two or three copies of the murine homologue of C3d (mC3d). Analyses of titers demonstrated that sgp120 conjugated to multiple copies of C3d induced similar high titer anti-Env antibodies in all mouse strains tested. However, the immunoglobulin subclass elicited in inbred mice vaccinated with sgp120-mC3d-DNA was predominately IgG(1), but was a mixture of IgG(1) and IgG(2a) in vaccinated outbred mice. Also, splenocytes from all sgp120-mC3d-DNA vaccinated inbred mouse strains secreted primarily interleukin-4 (IL-4) indicating a T helper (Th) type 2 response. In contrast, mice vaccinated with sgp120-mC3d-DNA had splenocytes that secreted both IL-4 and interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) indicating a mixed T helper response. In addition, the avidity maturation of the anti-Env antisera was enhanced in outbred mice with DNA expressing sgp120-mC3d. Overall, C3d conjugated DNA vaccines elicited enhanced immune responses in outbred mice compared to inbred mice.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY).	Neuropeptides such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) have long been proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. NPY is a 36 amino acid neuropeptide which participates in the regulation of a large number of physiological and pathophysiological processes in the cardiorespiratory system, immune system, nervous system and endocrine system. Serum levels of NPY are increased during exacerbations of asthma, whereas the number of NPY-immunoreactive nerves in the airways remains constant in the airways of patients with inflammatory airway diseases such asthma or rhinitis. Next to a role in the regulation of glandular activity, NPY exerts a major influence on humoral and cellular immune functions. In this respect, NPY is known to modulate potent immunological effects such as immune cell distribution, T helper cell differentiation, mediator release, or natural killer cell activation. In addition to these direct effects, NPY also acts as an immunomodulator by influencing the effects of a variety of other neurotransmitters. Whereas the peptide has been focused for therapeutic options in the central nervous system, a potential use in the treatment of pulmonary inflammatory disorders has not been revealed so far due to the complex pulmonary effects of NPY. However, since selective antagonists and agonists and gene-depleted animals for the different receptors are now available, NPY may be of value for future strategies in airway nerve modulation.
Immunosuppression of rat myasthenia gravis by oral administration of a syngeneic acetylcholine receptor fragment.	A syngeneic rat recombinant fragment of the extracellular domain of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha-subunit (Ralpha1-205), administered orally, suppresses ongoing experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) in rats. The underlying mechanism is a shift from Th1 to Th2 regulation as evidenced by downregulated mRNA expression levels of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, upregulated IL-10, changes in anti-AChR IgG isotypes and diminished Th1 signaling via CD28/CTLA-4:B7. Unlike the xenogeneic fragment, the syngeneic Ralpha1-205 does not induce elevation in TGF-beta and elicitation of autoregulatory cells. The ability to suppress EAMG by a non-immunogenic syngeneic fragment of AChR is encouraging and may in the future be applied for the treatment of myasthenia gravis in humans.
Intestinal pathology during acute toxoplasmosis is IL-4 dependent and unrelated to parasite burden.	The role of interleukin-4 (IL-4) during the course of Toxoplasma gondii infection was studied using IL-4-/- mice and their wild-type (WT) counterparts on a C57BL/6 background. Following oral infection with T. gondii tissue cysts an exacerbative role for IL-4 was demonstrated and IL-4-/- mice were found to be more resistant to infection than WT mice as measured by significantly reduced mortality. Furthermore pathology in the small intestine was less severe in IL-4-/- mice although conversely liver pathology was greater than in wild-type mice. Significantly, plasma IL-12 and IFN-gamma levels, which peaked at days 6 and 8, respectively, were higher in IL-4-/- mice. The exacerbatory role of IL-4 in the intestine was found by competitive RT-PCR not to be associated with increased parasite burdens but was related to comparative expression of IL-10.
Analysis of Ehrlichia ruminantium-specific T1/T2 responses during vaccination with a protective killed vaccine and challenge of goats.	Ehrlichia ruminantium is an obligate intracellular bacterium that causes heartwater in ruminants and for which T-cell-mediated immunity is believed to play an important role in protection. To better characterize protective cellular immunity, E. ruminantium-specific IFN-gamma and IL-4 recall responses in major T-cell subsets were analysed by flow cytometry during immunization of goats with a killed vaccine and following a virulent challenge. The killed vaccine elicited both CD8+ and CD4+ subsets to produce cytoplasmic IFN-gamma in the absence of IL-4, thus indicating a biased T1 response. The relative capacity of CD8+ T-cells to produce IFN-gamma was significantly higher than CD4+ T-cells but the final contribution of both subsets was comparable. Circulating ER-specific CD4 and CD8 effectors substantially decreased in numbers after the booster injection and could not be detected in most animals during challenge, which warrants further investigation in immune compartments other than blood. Since IFN-gamma inhibits the growth of the pathogen in target cells, the information provided in this study on E. ruminantium-specific T1 responses will be valuable to develop cellular tools for the identification of potential protective antigens.
Association study of polymorphisms within interleukin-18 in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and bronchial asthma.	Interleukin-18 (IL-18) plays an important role in the regulation of TH1 as well as TH2 immunologic responses and thus in the development of chronic inflammatory diseases. Positive association studies of polymorphisms in IL-18 with different diseases have underlined the involvement of IL-18 in the pathogenetics processes. Our interest was to test polymorphisms of IL-18 for association with a typical TH1-mediated disease--juvenile idiopathic arthritis--and the TH2-mediated disease bronchial asthma in Caucasian children.
Elevated interleukin-18 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with eosinophilic pneumonia.	Interleukin (IL)-18 can induce Th2 cytokine production particularly in collaboration with IL-2. Accumulation of Th2 cells and increased levels of Th2 cytokines are found in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with eosinophilic pneumonia (EP). To evaluate the role of IL-18 in the pathogenesis of EP, we measured the concentration of IL-2, IL-12, IL-18, and Th2 cytokines in BALF from patients with EP.
Molecular and cellular control of T1/T2 immunity at the interface between antimicrobial defense and immune pathology.	The immune system evolved to rapidly recognize infectious threats and promptly mobilize cellular effectors to the infection site. Establishment of a robust T1-type immunity is a prerequisite for effective defense against most viruses and intracellular bacteria. However, accumulating evidence shows that T1 and T2 responses during such infections are not mutually exclusive. A possibility may be that the dual T1-T2 nature of antiviral immune responses is merely a byproduct of less than perfect crossregulatory mechanisms. Herein, we discuss molecular and cellular mechanisms of T-cell differentiation along with recent evidence supporting the hypothesis that rather than representing an epiphenomenon, coinduction of virus-specific T2 cells plays a significant homeostatic role. Thus, molecular pathways that regulate IL-4 production during influenza virus infection monitor T1-mediated immune responses in vital organs such as lungs and prevent immune pathology that may otherwise interfere with recovery from disease. Such evidence suggests that coinduction of T2 immunity maintains immune homeostasis during T1-mediated defense reactions. Finally, we outline implications on the earlier concept of T1/T2 dichotomy, supporting a model in which these two subsets, rather than being mutually antagonistic, together facilitate the recovery from infection.
Methimazole upregulates T-cell-derived cytokines without improving the existing Th1/Th2 imbalance in Graves' disease.	There is probably a systemic shift of cytokine production in patients with Graves' disease (GD) toward the Th2 cytokine response. Methimazole (MMI) is the first choice for patients with GD and presumably has some direct immunomodulatory action. The aim of this study was to evaluate the balance shift in Th1/Th2 cytokines in patients with GD after 1 yr of MMI treatment, when compared to the same balance in patients with newly diagnosed GD before treatment and in healthy controls. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from 17 healthy volunteers, from 18 patients with newly diagnosed GD before treatment and from 15 euthyroid patients with GD after 1 yr of MMI treatment. The PBMC were activated with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). The concentrations of Th1/Th2 related cytokines [interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-12 vs IL-4, IL-10] in the culture supernatants were measured by ELISA. PBMC from patients with GD after treatment produced significantly more IFN-gamma and IL-4 than PBMC from patients with GD before treatment, but there were no significant differences in calculated ratios of Th1 against Th2 cytokines between these two groups. When compared to PBMC from healthy controls, PBMC from patients with GD after treatment produced significantly more IL-4 and significantly less IL-12. The calculated IL-12/IL-4 ratio after treatment was significantly lower than the same ratio from healthy controls. In conclusion, our results show no significant change in the ratio between Th1 and Th2 cytokines produced by PBMC from patients with GD after 1 yr of MMI treatment, when compared to the ratio before treatment. The ongoing prevalence of the Th2 immune response after treatment speaks against the immunomodulatory action of the drug on the systemic level.
Mouse mast cell protease-1 is required for the enteropathy induced by gastrointestinal helminth infection in the mouse.	The relationship between intestinal pathology and immune expulsion of gastrointestinal nematodes remains controversial. Immune expulsion of gastrointestinal helminth parasites is usually associated with Th2 responses, but the effector mechanisms directly responsible for parasite loss have not been elucidated. Mast cell hyperplasia is a hallmark of infection with gastrointestinal nematodes, in particular Trichinella spiralis. Although the precise mechanism by which mast cells induce expulsion of these parasites has not been elucidated, it has been proposed that mast cell mediators, including cytokines and granule chymases, act to create an environment inhospitable to the parasite, part of this being the induction of intestinal inflammation. Therefore, the aims of this study were to dissect the role of mast cells and mast cell proteases in the induction of parasite-induced enteropathy.
Role of alpha4 integrin and its ligand VCAM-1 in the specific extravasation of a tumor-specific TH2 clone into tumor tissue that initiates its rejection.	The effectiveness of anticancer immunotherapeutic strategies involving the transfer of tumor-specific T cells depends on appropriate lymphocyte-endothelial cell interactions that facilitate the migration of lymphocytes into tumor. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the migration of the antigen-specific Th2 CD4(+) T-cell clone YS1093 into S1509a tumor tissue. YS1093 is specific for the S1509a tumor but does not recognize the S713a tumor. Transfer of YS1093 cells into mice bearing both S1509a and S713a tumors caused only the S1509a tumor to regress. This regression was markedly inhibited by pretreating YS1093 cells with an anti-alpha4 integrin MAb and administering an anti-VCAM-1 MAb at T-cell transfer. Since vascular endothelial cells in S1509a tumor tissues express VCAM-1 and the MHC class II (I-E(k)) molecule restricting YS1093 activity, labeled YS1093 cells migrated specifically into the S1509a tumor, and this migration was also blocked by the anti-TCRbeta F(ab')(2) and anti-I-E(k) MAbs. Furthermore, in vitro assays revealed that anti-CD3 MAb-mediated TCR cross-linkage initiated the binding of alpha4 integrin on YS1093 cells to VCAM-1. This adhesive activity was completely blocked by the anti-alpha4 integrin MAb. These results strongly suggest that i.v.-transferred YS1093 cells act in tumor regression by specifically recognizing their tumor antigen peptide in the context of I-E(k) on vascular endothelial cells in the S1509a tumor, which activates the binding of alpha4 integrin to VCAM-1 on the endothelial cells, facilitating YS1093 extravasation into the tumor. It is likely that this initial migration of specific CD4(+) T cells into tumor tissues promotes the subsequent infiltration into the tumor of other immunocytes that effect tumor destruction.
Th1/Th2 cytokine patterns and clinical profiles during and after pregnancy in women with multiple sclerosis.	Pregnancy in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients is associated with a lower risk of progression and lower rate of exacerbation. These beneficial effects are reversed postpartum. Considering that the pathogenesis of MS appears to involve cell-mediated immune reactivity, and that pregnancy is accompanied by a depressed cell-mediated immunity, it has been proposed that the lower relapse rate and risk of progression of MS during pregnancy may be due to a pregnancy-associated down-regulation of cell-mediated immunity. In addition, pregnancy results in a shift towards a T helper (Th) 2 cytokine profile, which is presumably protective for MS. This study was aimed at investigating the relationship between clinical status of MS and cytokine levels in eight patients with MS who were followed through pregnancy and after delivery. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from these women were stimulated with a mitogen at different time points during and after gestation and the levels of Th1 cytokines (IFNgamma, TNFalpha) and Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-10) were estimated by ELISA. It was established that six of the eight MS patients studied showed a distinct shift from a Th2 cytokine bias during pregnancy towards a Th1 cytokine bias after delivery. These results suggest a possible association between decreased incidence of exacerbation of MS in pregnancy and a pregnancy-induced shift towards Th2 cytokine bias.
CD25+CD4+ cells contribute to Th2 polarization during helminth infection by suppressing Th1 response development.	Mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni develop polarized Th2 responses in which Th1 responses are prevented by IL-10-mediated suppression of IL-12 production. We show that dendritic cells from infected mice are primed to make IL-12 in response to CD40 ligation, and that IL-10 acts by inhibiting this process. In infected mice, two subpopulations of CD4(+) cells, separable by their expression of CD25, make IL-10. CD25(+)CD4(+) cells expressed forkhead box P3, inhibited proliferation of CD4(+) T cells, and made IL-10, but little IL-5. In contrast, CD25(-)CD4(+) cells failed to express forkhead box P3 or to inhibit proliferation and accounted for all the IL-5, IL-6, and IL-13 produced by unseparated splenic populations. Thus, CD25(+) and CD25(-) subpopulations could be characterized as regulatory T cells (Treg cells) and Th2 cells, respectively. Consistent with their ability to make IL-10, both CD25(+) and CD25(-)CD4(+) T cells from infected mice were able, when stimulated with egg Ag, to suppress IL-12 production by CD40 agonist-stimulated dendritic cells. Additionally, in adoptive transfer experiments, both CD4(+) subpopulations of cells were able to partially inhibit the development of Th1 responses in egg-immunized IL-10(-/-) mice. The relationship of Treg cells in infected mice to natural Treg cells was strongly suggested by the ability of CD25(+)CD4(+) cells from naive mice to inhibit Th1 response development when transferred into egg-immunized or infected IL-10(-/-) mice. The data suggest that natural Treg cells and, to a lesser extent, Th2 cells play roles in suppressing Th1 responses and ensuring Th2 polarization during schistosomiasis.
Dendritic cells modulated by cytokine-expressing adenoviruses alleviate eosinophilia and airway hyperresponsiveness in an animal model of asthma.	It has been found that TH1-related cytokines can decrease the accumulation of eosinophils in lung tissue and relieve airway constriction.
Essential role of dendritic cell CD80/CD86 costimulation in the induction, but not reactivation, of TH2 effector responses in a mouse model of asthma.	Airway dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial for the generation of TH2 cells from naive T cells during sensitization and for reactivation of primed TH2 cells on allergen challenge in mouse models of asthma. It is unknown whether CD80/CD86 costimulation is necessary during both phases of the response because primed T cells rely less on costimulatory molecules compared with naive T cells.
Low stimulated IL-4 secretion in PBMC from patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria.	An imbalance between the Th1 and Th2 arms of the cellular immune system has been reported in several autoimmune diseases but not in chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU). Peak, total secretion and secretory pattern of the Th1 cytokines (IFNgamma and IL-2) and Th2 cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10) were determined in resting and stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from nineteen CIU patients, six acute urticaria patients and twelve controls. Stimulated IL-4 secretion was significantly reduced in CIU patients as indicated by their five- and three-fold lower peak levels and total IL-4 secretion, respectively. The IL-4 secretory pattern overtime was also markedly different in patients and controls. The late secretion of IFNgamma at 144 h was also reduced in CIU patients. These aberrations were not detectable in AU patients. Secretion of IL-2 was lower in CIU and AU patients as compared to controls while IL-10 secretion was comparable in the three groups. Our data demonstrate for the first time a predominantly reduced IL-4 secretion in CIU patients. This is associated with reduced secretion of both IL-2 and IFNgamma. These findings indicate a generalized down-regulation of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines' secretion in CIU.
Immune response to Leishmania infection.	Antileishmanial immune response is shown to be host genotype dependent so that some inbred strains of mouse are susceptible while others are resistant. The resistance is conferred by T-helper type-1 (Th1) cells while the susceptibility is conferred by Th2 cells. Th1 cells secrete IL-2 and IFN-gamma but Th2 cells secrete IL-4, IL-5 and IL-10. It has been shown that IFN-gamma activates macrophages to express iNOS2, the enzyme catalyzing the formation of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide kills the intracellular amastigotes. In contrast, Th2 immune response limits the action of Th1 functions via IL-10 and IL-4, which deactivate macrophages helping intracellular parasite growth and disease progression. Being a parasite, Leishmania ensures its own survival by modulating host immune system either by inducing immunosuppression or by promoting pro-parasitic host functions. A detailed knowledge of this host-parasite interaction would help in designing prophylactic and therapeutic strategies against this infection.
Immunogenicity in mice of a cationic microparticle-adsorbed plasmid DNA encoding Japanese encephalitis virus envelope protein.	Previously, we described a plasmid pMEa, synthesizing the anchored form of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) envelope protein that generated virus-neutralizing antibodies in mice upon intra-muscular injection. The immunized mice showed significant protection against lethal JEV challenge. In order to improve the efficacy of plasmid DNA immunization against JEV, methods need to be employed that would enhance neutralizing antibody titers. Plasmid DNA adsorbed to cationic microparticles has recently been shown to significantly improve its immunogenicity. In the present study, we have adsorbed the plasmid pMEa on cationic microparticles and have compared its immunogenicity with the naked plasmid DNA. As seen in ELISA, the microparticle-adsorbed DNA induced higher titers of anti-JEV antibodies when compared to those induced by the naked DNA. No difference, however, was seen in JEV neutralization titers. The microparticle-adsorbed DNA induced a mixed Th1-Th2 kind of immune responses as opposed to Th1 type of immune responses elicited by the naked DNA.
Starch microparticles as an adjuvant in immunisation: effect of route of administration on the immune response in mice.	This paper describes the effects on the development of an immune response by changing the route of administration of a new vaccine adjuvant, starch microparticles with human serum albumin (HSA) as a model antigen. The model vaccine was administered to mice by oral, subcutaneous and intramuscular routes in various combinations and both the local secretory immunoglobulin antibody (s-IgA) and systemic humoral and cellular (delayed-type hypersensitivity assay (DTH)) responses were followed. The only immunisation regimens inducing a significant s-IgA response were those incorporating oral booster doses. Oral and subcutaneous immunisations had similar effects on the Th1/Th2 balance, as indicated by the IgG subclass ratios and cytokine analyses. However, significant differences between oral and intramuscular immunisations were seen in the IgG subclass ratios. The Th2 influence was stronger after oral primary immunisation than after intramuscular primary immunisation, while oral boosters elicited a comparatively stronger Th1 response than intramuscular boosters. This result was also supported by the DTH analyses. Subcutaneous immunisation induced a stronger Th2 response than intramuscular immunisation, as indicated by subclass ratio and the IgE response. In conclusion, our results show that the profile of an immune response depends on the route of administration, which should be considered when developing new vaccines or new routes of administration.
Effect of chemical adjuvants on DNA vaccination.	DNA vaccination is useful for generating immune responses, particularly the cell-mediated immune response, in a wide variety of species. However, DNA vaccination generally induces only relatively weak responses; hence, various approaches have been developed recently in order to improve its efficacy or immunopotency. The use of a chemical adjuvant is one of them. Previously we have shown that Bupivacaine or Marcaine can modulate immune responses induced by DNA vaccines [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 90 (1993) 4156]. Following that lead, we have recently tested several additional chemicals for their usefulness as adjuvants in DNA inoculation. Of a total of five chemicals tested, levamisole exhibited strongest Th1 stimulatory activity whereas Tween 80 showed weakest Th1 activity, as determined by IgG2a production, and saline formulation induced weak T cell proliferation and DTH, in animals inoculated with a DNA construct expressing the foot-mouth disease viral capsule protein VP1. Furthermore, co-inoculation of levamisole increased the production of IFN-gamma by more than 100-fold as compared to that by DNA inoculation formulated in saline. In contrast, a previously reported chemical adjuvant, bupivacaine, stimulated only modest levels of overall antibody production, with relatively low level of Ig2a. These results demonstrate the usefulness of various chemicals, particularly levamisole, for modulating the outcome of DNA vaccination, in both the intensity of the immune response and the polarity of such response (toward Th1).
Th1 and Th2 serum cytokine profiles characterize patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (Th1) and Graves' disease (Th2).	The aim of this study was to document the pattern of immune response, assessed by the measurement of both Th1 and Th2 serum cytokines, in patients suffering from autoimmune thyroid disease and toxic nodular goiter.
Asian pear pectin administration during presensitization inhibits allergic response to ovalbumin in BALB/c mice.	A type of respiratory disorder resembling some aspects of human allergic asthma can be induced in mice using ovalbumin. The factors that influence the etiology of asthma are poorly understood even though cytokines are known to play a pivotal role. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis whether an administration of Asian pear pectin during presensitization could suppress allergic response to ovalbumin in BALB/c mice.
Innate immunity dictates cytokine polarization relevant to the development of pulmonary fibrosis.	New data support the importance of the innate immune response in the resolution or progression of pulmonary fibrosis. The presence of CXC chemokine receptor 3-expressing cells, specifically pulmonary NK cells, is necessary to produce IFN-gamma. This is critical in the polarization of the immune response to injury toward a favorable Th1 response and resolution. In contrast, a Th2 response is associated with progressive fibrosis.
Adaptive cellular immunity in aortic aneurysms: cause, consequence, or context?	Abdominal aortic aneurysms are common and life threatening. Although CD4(+) T cells are abundant in aneurysm tissue, their role in disease progression remains unclear. A new study shows that mouse aortic allografts placed in animals lacking IFN-gamma receptors develop a Th2 inflammatory response with aortic aneurysms, whereas Th1 responses promote intimal hyperplasia. It is expected that these surprising findings will stimulate further efforts to clarify whether adaptive cellular immunity in aneurysm disease is detrimental or potentially beneficial.
Inhibition of experimental asthma by indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase.	Epidemiological evidence points to the inverse relationship between microbial exposure and the prevalence of allergic asthma and autoimmune diseases in Westernized countries. The molecular basis for this observation has not yet been completely delineated. Here we report that the administration of certain toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, via the activation of innate immunity, induces high levels of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), the rate-limiting enzyme of tryptophan catabolism in various organs. TLR9 ligand-induced pulmonary IDO activity inhibits Th2-driven experimental asthma. IDO activity expressed by resident lung cells rather than by pulmonary DCs suppressed lung inflammation and airway hyperreactivity. Our results provide a mechanistic insight into the various formulations of the hygiene hypothesis and underscore the notion that activation of innate immunity can inhibit adaptive Th cell responses.
Th2-predominant inflammation and blockade of IFN-gamma signaling induce aneurysms in allografted aortas.	Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) cause death due to complications related to expansion and rupture. The underlying mechanisms that drive AAA development remain largely unknown. We recently described evidence for a shift toward T helper type 2 (Th2) cell responses in human AAAs compared with stenotic atheromas. To evaluate putative pathways in AAA formation, we induced Th1- or Th2-predominant cytokine environments in an inflammatory aortic lesion using murine aortic transplantation into WT hosts or those lacking the receptors for the hallmark Th1 cytokine IFN-gamma, respectively. Allografts in WT recipients developed intimal hyperplasia, whereas allografts in IFN-gamma receptor-deficient (GRKO) hosts developed severe AAA formation associated with markedly increased levels of MMP-9 and MMP-12. Allografts in GRKO recipients treated with anti-IL-4 antibody to block the characteristic IL-4 Th2 cytokine or allografts in GRKO hosts also congenitally deficient in IL-4 did not develop AAA and likewise exhibited attenuated collagenolytic and elastolytic activities. These observations demonstrate an important dichotomy between cellular immune responses that induce IFN-gamma- or IL-4-dominated cytokine environments. The findings establish important regulatory roles for a Th1/Th2 cytokine balance in modulating matrix remodeling and have important implications for the pathophysiology of AAAs and arteriosclerosis.
In vivo transfection of a cis element 'decoy' against signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 (STAT6)-binding site ameliorates IgE-mediated late-phase reaction in an atopic dermatitis mouse model.	Signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 (STAT6) play a crucial role in the transactivation of IL-4 and IL-13, which might be involved in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). We herein reported that the IgE-mediated late-phase reaction significantly decreased in STAT6-deficient (STAT6(-/-)) mice in AD model mice induced by intravenous injection of monoclonal anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-IgE antibody and subsequent skin testing with dinitrofluorobenzene. We therefore hypothesized that synthetic double-stranded DNA with a high affinity for STAT6 could be introduced in vivo as decoy cis elements to bind the transcriptional factor and block the gene activation contributing to the onset and progression of AD, thus providing effective therapy for AD. Treatment by the transfection of STAT6 decoy oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs), but not scramble decoy ODN after sensitization by anti-DNP-IgE antibody, had a significant inhibitory effect on not only STAT6 binding to nuclei but also on the late-phase response. A histological analysis revealed that both edema and the infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils significantly decreased in STAT6 decoy ODN-transfected mice. To examine the mechanism of the in vivo effect of STAT6 decoy ODN, we employed an in vitro mast cells culture system. After IgE receptor engagement, mast cells transfected by STAT6 decoy ODN exhibited normal histamine release, but their cytokine release (TNF-alpha, IL-6) markedly decreased. We herein report the first successful in vivo transfer of STAT6 decoy ODN to reduce the late-phase reaction, thereby providing a new therapeutic strategy for AD.
In vivo transfection of a cis element 'decoy' against signal transducers and activators of the transcription 6 (STAT6) binding site ameliorates the response of contact hypersensitivity.	We herein demonstrate that STAT6 plays an important role in the induction of not only acute contact hypersensitivity (CHS), but also chronic CHS in a mouse model using STAT6-deficient (STAT6(-/-)) mice. We, therefore, determine whether synthetic double-stranded DNA with a high affinity for STAT6 can be introduced in vivo as a decoy cis element to bind the transcriptional factor and block the induction of not only acute CHS but also chronic CHS. Treatment by the transfection of STAT6 decoy oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN), after the induction of 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene or other haptens had a significant inhibitory effect on the induction of both acute CHS and chronic CHS. We thus examined the mechanism of the in vivo effect of the transfection of STAT6 decoy ODN in both acute and chronic CHS. In the histological analysis, the infiltration of eosinophils and degranulated mast cells, and the production of IL-4, IL-6 and eotaxin, but not IFN-gamma in the extracts from challenged skin significantly decreased by the transfection of STAT6 decoy ODN. We herein report the first successful in vivo transfer of STAT6 decoy ODN to inhibit acute and chronic CHS, thus providing a new therapeutic strategy not only for the treatment of CHS but also for atopic dermatitis.
Donor-derived IL-15 is critical for acute allogeneic graft-versus-host disease.	Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a pleiotropic proinflammatory cytokine with inefficient posttranscriptional processing. We hypothesized that endogenous IL-15 could affect disease progression in the well-described C57Bl/6 (B6)-->(C57Bl/6 x DBA/2) F1 hybrid (B6D2F1) murine model of acute allogeneic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). B6D2F1 allogeneic recipients received transplants of IL-15(-/-) B6 bone marrow cells or B6 bone marrow cells expressing a murine IL-15 transgene (IL-15 tg) modified for efficient translation and secretion. Mice that received transplants of IL-15(-/-) B6 bone marrow cells displayed a significantly longer median survival time (MST) compared with mice that received transplants of wild-type (wt) B6 bone marrow; in contrast, mice that received transplants of IL-15 tg B6 bone marrow cells had a dramatically decreased MST. This decrease in survival was associated with a substantial activation and expansion of effector-memory (CD44highCD62Llow) CD8+ T lymphocytes. Finally, in vivo depletion of either CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocyte subsets significantly prolonged survival in mice receiving IL-15 tg B6 marrow, while depletion of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells provided complete protection from acute GVHD. We thus show that acute GVHD is attenuated in the absence of donor bone marrow-derived IL-15 and conclude that donor-derived IL-15 is a critical mediator of T-cell function in acute GVHD.
The anti-allergic effects of lactic acid bacteria are strain dependent and mediated by effects on both Th1/Th2 cytokine expression and balance.	There is growing interest in the immune-stimulating effect and in particular, the anti-allergic effect, of lactic acid bacteria (LAB). However, no comprehensive studies have been done that compare the immune-stimulating potential of LAB strains.
Paradoxical role of programmed death-1 ligand 2 in Th2 immune responses in vitro and in a mouse asthma model in vivo.	Programmed death-1 ligand 2 (PD-L2) is a ligand for programmed death-1 (PD-1), a receptor that plays an inhibitory role in T cell activation. Since previous studies have shown up-regulation of PD-L2 expression by Th2 cytokines, and asthma is driven by a Th2 response, we hypothesized that PD-L2 might be involved in regulation of the immune response in this disease. We have found that lungs from asthmatic mice had sustained up-regulation of PD-1 and PD-L2, with PD-L2 primarily on dendritic cells. Although addition of PD-L2-Fc in vitro led to decreased T cell proliferation and cytokine production, administration of PD-L2-Fc in vivo in a mouse asthma model resulted in elevated serum IgE levels, increased eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltration into bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, higher number of cells in the draining lymph nodes, and production of IL-5 and IL-13 from these cells. Although PD-1 was expressed on regulatory T cells, PD-L2-Fc did not affect regulatory T cell activity in vitro. This study provides in vivo evidence of an exacerbated inflammatory response following PD-L2-Fc administration and indicates a potential role for this molecule in Th2-mediated diseases such as asthma.
The mouse chorionic gonadotropin beta-subunit-like (muCG beta l) molecule produced by tumor cells elicits the switch of T-cell immunity response from TH2 to TH1 in mice immunized with DNA vaccine based on rhesus monkey homologous CG beta (rmCG beta).	CG beta is expressed not only in placenta, but also in a wide range of tumors. To study DNA vaccine based on xenogeneic CG beta for cancer immuno-therapy, we investigated whether rhesus monkey CG beta (rmCG beta) DNA vaccine could induce protective T-cell responses and humoral responses in mouse.
Zinc/copper imbalance reflects immune dysfunction in human leishmaniasis: an ex vivo and in vitro study.	The process of elimination of intracellular pathogens, such as Leishmania, requires a Th1 type immune response, whereas a dominant Th2 response leads to exacerbated disease. Experimental human zinc deficiency decreases Th1 but not Th2 immune response. We investigated if zinc and copper levels differ in different clinical forms of leishmaniasis, and if these trace metals might be involved in the immune response towards the parasite.
Roles of Toxoplasma gondii-derived heat shock protein 70 in host defense against T. gondii infection.	C57BL/6 mice receiving intraperitoneal injection of Toxoplasma gondii -derived heat shock protein 70 (T.g. HSP70) on day 3 post T. gondii infection succumbed by day 9 post infection, while vector protein-injected control mice survived more than 6 months. The deteriorating effect of T.g. HSP70 on host immune responses was dose-dependent. By T.g. HSP70 injection, T. gondii loads increased in various organs of T. gondii-infected mice. Th2 cytokines such as IL-4 and IL-10 were continuously produced from spleen and peritoneal exudate cells of T. gondii -infected mice by injection of T.g. HSP70. Furthermore, nitric oxide production from peritoneal macrophages in T. gondii-infected mice was reduced by T.g. HSP70.
The SLAM-associated protein (SAP) regulates IFN-gamma expression in leprosy]	The SLAM-associated protein (SAP) regulates IFN-gamma expression in leprosy. Tuberculoid leprosy patients locally produce Th1 cytokines, while lepromatous patients produce Th2 cytokines. Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM) and the SLAM-associated protein (SAP) participate in the differentiation process that leads to the production of specific patterns of cytokines by activated T cells. To investigate the SLAM/SAP pathway in M. leprae infection, we determined the expression of SAP, IFN-gamma and SLAM RNA messenger in leprosy patients. We found a direct correlation of SLAM expression with IFN-gamma expression, whereas the expression of SAP was inversely correlated with the expression of both SLAM and IFN-gamma. Therefore, our data indicate that SAP might interfere with Th1 cytokine responses while SLAM expression may contribute to Th1 responses in leprosy. This study further suggests that the SLAM/SAP pathway might be a focal point for therapeutic modulation of T cell cytokine responses in diseases characterized by dysfunctional Th2 responses.
Role of 90K protein in asthma and TH2-type cytokine expression.	The 90K protein (mac-2 binding protein) is a member of the macrophage scavenger receptor cysteine-rich domain superfamily. Although systemic levels of 90K protein have been correlated with inflammation in many diseases, its role in asthma is unknown.
Massive liver necrosis after provocation of imbalance between Th1 and Th2 immune reactions in osteopontin transgenic mice.	Massive liver necrosis can develop as a consequence of imbalance between T-helper (Th)1 and Th2 immune reactions in the liver. Osteopontin is a glycoprotein secreted for the initiation of the Th1 immune reaction, as well as for extracellular matrix formation and calcium deposition in the bone and kidney. Osteopontin is overexpressed in Kupffer cells, macrophages, and stellate cells activated in injured livers. We established transgenic mice expressing osteopontin exclusively in hepatocytes, using a vector containing human serum amyloid P component promoter. The relation of Th1/Th2 immune imbalance to massive liver necrosis was studied using these transgenic mice.
Th1/Th2 cells in inflammatory disease states: therapeutic implications.	Inflammation is initiated as a protective response by the host, but can often result in systemic pathology. Among cells of the immune system, T lymphocytes play a major role in the inflammatory response. T cell inflammation is characterised histologically by an infiltration of mononuclear cells. Key regulators of this response are a subset of T lymphocytes called T helper (Th) cells. These cells secrete soluble mediators called cytokines, which orchestrate the immune response. The appropriate regulation of Th cell immunity is critical in the control and prevention of diverse disease states. This review will focus on the role of Th cells in the inflammatory process involved in allergic disease, diabetes, infectious disease, rheumatoid arthritis, heart disease, multiple sclerosis and cancer. In the area of autoimmunity, in particular, a basic understanding of Th cells and cytokines has contributed to the development of clinically efficacious biological agents. This review also examines current and novel treatment strategies under investigation at present that regulate Th cell immunity, which may result in better treatments for immune-mediated diseases.
Cow's milk allergy in infants with atopic eczema is associated with aberrant production of interleukin-4 during oral cow's milk challenge.	A failure in the establishment and maintenance of oral tolerance in infancy may result in food allergy. To further assess the role of the intestinal immune system in cow's milk allergy (CMA), we investigated the systemic production of the pro-allergenic Th2 cytokine interleukin (IL)-4 and anti-allergenic cytokines IL-10, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and TGF-beta2 in infants suffering from atopic eczema with and without CMA during antigen elimination diet and oral antigen exposure.
The imbalance in the ratio of Th1 and Th2 helper lymphocytes in uraemia is mediated by an increased apoptosis of Th1 subset.	In uraemia there is a reduction in the total number of T lymphocytes and an imbalance in the ratio of Th1/Th2 T-helper (Th) lymphocytes. A higher rate of apoptosis in T lymphocytes has been reported in haemodialysis patients. The aims of the present study were to assess the Th1/Th2 pattern in uraemia and to evaluate whether a relative increase in Th1 apoptosis may explain the Th1/Th2 imbalance observed in uraemic patients.
Childhood infections, the developing immune system, and the origins of asthma.	Asthma is an immune-mediated inflammatory condition characterized by increased responsiveness to bronchoconstrictive stimuli. Viruses have been shown to play an important role in asthma, with viral infection being present during about 85% of exacerbations. However, the role they play in the onset of asthma is more controversial. Some respiratory viral infections might be protective, but there is a strong association between respiratory syncytial virus-induced bronchiolitis in infancy and recurrent wheeze up to 12 years of age. Both the respiratory tract and the immune system undergo rapid maturation during the first year of life, and it seems that postnatal development is affected by and affects responses to viral infections. Understanding postnatal developmental changes in the immune system might help to explain the origins and pathogenesis of asthma and thus the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of specific asthma therapies.
Inhalation of low-dose endotoxin favors local T(H)2 response and primes airway phagocytes in vivo.	We previously reported that inhalation of 5 mug of endotoxin (30,000 endotoxin units [EU]) induced airway neutrophilia and decreased phagocytosis by airway monocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Conversely, we recently reported that very low doses of endotoxin, which are not associated with neutrophil influx, enhance response to allergen in the nasal and bronchial airway.
Cytomegalovirus infection and development of allergic diseases in early childhood: interaction with EBV infection?	Chronic replication of cytomegalovirus and EBV in early life may affect the immune system and play a role in the development of allergy in children.
Susceptibility to allergic lung disease regulated by recall responses of dual-receptor memory T cells.	Microbial infections are associated with the initial susceptibility to and flares of asthma. However, immunologic mechanisms whereby infections might alter the asthmatic phenotype are lacking.
Critical role for galectin-3 in airway inflammation and bronchial hyperresponsiveness in a murine model of asthma.	Galectin-3 is a member of a beta-galactoside-binding animal lectin family. Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that galectin-3 is involved in a number of activities; however, the roles of this lectin in physiological and pathological processes in vivo remain to be elucidated. Herein, we show, in a murine model of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma that 1) peribronchial inflammatory cells expressed large amounts of galectin-3; 2) bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from OVA-challenged mice contained significantly higher levels of galectin-3 compared to control mice; and 3) macrophages in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were the major cell type that contained galectin-3. We investigated the role of galectin-3 in the allergic airway response by comparing galectin-3-deficient (gal3(-/-)) mice and wild-type (gal3(+/+)) mice. OVA-sensitized gal3(-/-) mice developed fewer eosinophils and lower goblet cell metaplasia, after airway OVA challenge compared to similarly treated gal3(+/+) mice. In addition, the OVA-sensitized gal3(-/-) mice developed significantly less airway hyperresponsiveness after airway OVA challenge compared to gal3(+/+) mice. Finally, gal3(-/-) mice developed a lower Th2 response, but a higher Th1 response, suggesting that galectin-3 regulates the Th1/Th2 response. We conclude that galectin-3 may play an important role in the pathogenesis of asthma and inhibitors of this lectin may prove useful for treatment of this disease.
Contraception in mice immunized with recombinant zona pellucida subunit 3 proteins correlates with Th2 responses and the levels of interleukin 4 expressed by CD4+ cells.	The immune responses and contraceptive effect in mice were tested following immunization with purified recombinant zona pellucida (ZP) proteins produced using a vaccinia (v) virus T7 mammalian expression system. Female BALB/c and CBA mice were immunized with recombinant mouse (m) ZP3 (vmZP3) or pig (p) ZPC (vpZPC) using Freund's adjuvants and boosted three times. Fertility and mean litter size were significantly reduced in groups of BALB/c mice immunized with recombinant vmZP3 and vpZPC compared with controls treated with Freund's adjuvants alone. In CBA mice, fertility and mean litter size were significantly reduced in groups of animals immunized with vmZP3 but not with vpZPC compared with the controls. Most infertile animals treated with vmZP3 and a single infertile BALB/c mouse treated with vpZPC lacked mature follicles in the ovaries, whilst no abnormalities were detected in the remaining vpZPC treated, fertile vmZP3 treated and control mice. All mice (both fertile and infertile) immunized with vmZP3 and vpZPC produced IgG antibodies, but the levels of total IgG, IgG1 and IgG2a did not correlate with infertility. All BALB/c and CBA mice immunized with vmZP3 and vpZPC showed greater delayed type hypersensitivity responses in the footpads after challenge with their respective antigens than controls, but these did not differ between the fertile and infertile mice. There was, however, a significant correlation between infertility and the levels of the Type 2 T helper cell (Th2) cytokine interleukin 4 produced by CD4+ cells from vmZP3 immunized mice in response to stimulation with vmZP3 and this did not apply to the levels of the Type 1 T helper cell (Th1) cytokine interferon gamma or the general proliferation response. The results support the conclusion that induction of Th2 responses in individual mice determines whether infertility develops in response to immunization with zona pellucida proteins.
Neuromedin U elicits cytokine release in murine Th2-type T cell clone D10.G4.1.	Neuromedin U (NmU), originally isolated from porcine spinal cord and later from other species, is a novel peptide that potently contracts smooth muscle. NmU interacts with two G protein-coupled receptors designated as NmU-1R and NmU-2R. This study demonstrates a potential proinflammatory role for NmU. In a mouse Th2 cell line (D10.G4.1), a single class of high affinity saturable binding sites for (125)I-labeled NmU (K(D) 364 pM and B(max) 1114 fmol/mg protein) was identified, and mRNA encoding NmU-1R, but not NmU-2R, was present. Competition binding analysis revealed equipotent, high affinity binding of NmU isopeptides to membranes prepared from D10.G4.1 cells. Exposure of these cells to NmU isopeptides resulted in an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration (EC(50) 4.8 nM for human NmU). In addition, NmU also significantly increased the synthesis and release of cytokines including IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, and IL-13. Studies using pharmacological inhibitors indicated that maximal NmU-evoked cytokine release required functional phospholipase C, calcineurin, MEK, and PI3K pathways. These data suggest a role for NmU in inflammation by stimulating cytokine production by T cells.
Novel 2-(substituted phenyl)benzimidazole derivatives with potent activity against IgE, cytokines, and CD23 for the treatment of allergy and asthma.	The effectiveness of the injectable anti-IgE antibody omalizumab has validated IgE as an important target for allergic diseases, thus spawning the development of small-molecule IgE inhibitors. Herein, a brief SAR is described for novel phenylbenzimidazole compounds that potently suppress IgE responses. In addition to IgE, these agents inhibit other targets critical for allergic response. The profile of orally active AVP-13358, the lead compound of this series currently in clinical trials, is described.
Predominance of infiltrating IL-4-producing T cells in conjunctiva of patients with allergic conjunctival disease.	Previous reports have suggested that type 2 cytokine responses at the site of inflammation are important in the pathogenesis of allergic disease. In this study, we investigated the frequency of IFN-gamma- or IL-4-producing T cells from conjunctiva or peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from patients with allergic conjunctival diseases.
Transient role for CD1d-restricted natural killer T cells in the formation of atherosclerotic lesions.	CD1d-restricted natural killer T (NKT) cells are reported to play a proatherogenic role in the development of atherosclerosis. However, the contribution of NKT cells to mature lesion formation and the effector mechanisms through which they act are unknown.
Reduced expression of transforming growth factor beta 1 exacerbates pathology in an experimental asthma model.	Allergic asthma is characterized by airway hyperreactivity (AHR), eosinophilic airway inflammation and elevated serum IgE levels. T-helper 2 (Th2) cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of asthma, but the immunological mechanisms that inhibit Th2 cell function in vivo are not well understood. Conflicting results regarding the protective role of Th1 cytokines and TGF-beta in asthma have been reported. To further investigate the role of TGF-beta(1 )in asthma, we examined mice heterozygous for deletion of the TGF-beta(1) gene (TGF-beta(1) (+/-) mice) in a murine asthma model. While TGF-beta(1) (+/-) mice seem phenotypically normal, they express only about 30% of wild type TGF-beta(1) protein levels as shown before. The reduced expression of TGF-beta(1) is accompanied by a strikingly increased eosinophilic inflammation and mucus secretion in response to ovalbumin (OVA) sensitization. Moreover, TGF-beta(1) (+/-) mice develop significantly enhanced Th2-cytokine levels, decreased IFN-gamma production and increased levels of OVA-specific IgE in serum. In contrast, AHR in response to methacholine is not altered significantly. Our data demonstrate that reduced expression of TGF-beta(1) exacerbates pathology in an experimental asthma model and support the view that the elevated levels of TGF-beta(1) in asthmatic airways might be, at least in part, a result of anti-inflammatory compensation by this cytokine.
Respiratory syncytial virus-induced exaggeration of allergic airway disease is dependent upon CCR1-associated immune responses.	Severe respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection has a significant impact on airway function, and may alter subsequent development of asthma. CCR1 mRNA was significantly up-regulated during primary RSV infection in BALB/c mice, and was also up-regulated during allergen exposure in sensitized mice. Although CCR1(-/-) mice exhibited similar levels of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) as wild-type mice in response to cockroach allergen alone, in animals treated with RSV prior to cockroach antigen (CRA) sensitization and challenge, a significant decrease in exacerbated AHR was observed in the CCR1(-/-) mice. The reduction in AHR after RSV and allergen challenge in CCR1(-/-) mice was not associated with changes in peribronchial eosinophilia, but was accompanied by significantly decreased IL-13 levels in the lungs, as well as an absence of mucus cell staining within the airways. When T lymphocyte numbers were compared in animals receiving CRA to animals receiving a combination of RSV and allergen an increase in both CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes could be detected in wild-type but not CCR1(-/-) animals. Thus, these data suggest that CCR1-mediated responses have a primary role for inducing severe disease during RSV infection, and may be responsible for altering the lung pathophysiological responses to subsequent allergen challenges via IL-13-mediated mechanisms.
Stimulation via Toll-like receptor 9 reduces Cryptococcus neoformans-induced pulmonary inflammation in an IL-12-dependent manner.	Cytosine-phosphate-guanosine-containing oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN) are important vaccine adjuvants that promote Th1-type immune responses. Cryptococcus neoformans is a serious human pathogen that replicates in the lung but may disseminate systemically leading to meningitis, particularly in immunocompromised individuals. Immunization of susceptible C57BL/6 mice with CpG ODN deviates the immune response from a Th2- toward a Th1-type response following infection with C. neoformans. CpG also induces IL-12, TNF, MCP-1 and macrophage nitric oxide production. CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells producing IFN-gamma increase in frequency, while those producing IL-5 decrease. More importantly, pulmonary eosinophilia is significantly reduced, an effect that depends on IL-12 and CD8(+) T cells but not NK cells. CpG treatment also reduces the burden of C. neoformans in the lung, an effect that is IL-12-, NK cell- and T cell-independent and probably reflects a direct effect of CpG on pathogen opsonization or an enhancement of macrophage antimicrobial activity. An equivalent beneficial effect is also observed when CpG ODN treatment is delivered during established cryptococcal disease. This is the first study documenting that promotion of lung TLR9 signaling using synthetic agonists enhances host defense. Activation of innate immunity has clear therapeutic potential and may even be beneficial in patients with acquired immune deficiency.
Th1/Th2 balance in systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)]	The activation of a pro-inflammatory cascade after infection, major surgery, burn or trauma appears to be important in the development of subsequent immune dysfunction, susceptibility to sepsis and multiple organ failure. It is well known that T-cell plays a critical role in the systemic response to infection. Distinct patterns of cytokines are produced by two different types of T-helper cells (Th). Th1 lymphocytes produce IFN-gamma and IL-2, favoring cell mediated immunity; Th2 cells secrete IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, IL-13, favoring humoral immunity. Cytokines produced in systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) may effect Th subset predominance and subsequent immune responses. We measured Thl/Th2 balance in patients with severe sepsis, SIRS patients with non sepsis, and healthy subjects by flow cytometry. In patients with severe sepsis, Th2 antibody mediated (humoral) immune responses predominate. We believe that severe sepsis clearly induce polarization of T-helper lymphocyte activity with a clear shift in Th2 direction. This type of response may lead immunosuppression. Modulation of Th cell subset predominance may present a novel therapeutic option in the treatment of severe sepsis.
Hypersensitive site 7 of the TH2 locus control region is essential for expressing TH2 cytokine genes and for long-range intrachromosomal interactions.	Several regulatory regions are important for the expression of genes encoding T helper type 2 (T(H)2) cytokines, including T(H)2-specific DNase I hypersensitivity sites in the T(H)2 cytokine locus control region. Among these sites, Rad50 hypersensitive site 7 (RHS7) shows rapid T(H)2-specific demethylation after antigenic stimulation. To investigate the function of RHS7 in T(H)2 cell differentiation, we have generated RHS7-deficient mice. CD4(+) T cells and mast cells showed a notable reduction in T(H)2 cytokine expression in vitro and T(H)2 responses in vivo were considerably impaired in RHS7-deficient mice. Deletion of RHS7 did not affect the expression of a linked Rad50 gene, but it did reduce long-range intrachromosomal interactions between the locus control region and promoters of the T(H)2 cytokine genes. Our findings show that RHS7 is essential for the proper regulation of T(H)2 cytokine gene expression.
Dendritic cell-mediated T cell polarization.	Effective defense against diverse types of micro-organisms that invade our body requires specialized classes of antigen-specific immune responses initiated and maintained by distinct subsets of effector CD4(+) T helper (Th) cells. Excessive or detrimental (e.g., autoimmune) responses by effector T cells are controlled by regulatory T cells. The optimal balance in the development of the different types of effector and regulatory Th cells is orchestrated by dendritic cells (DC). This review discusses the way DC adapt the T cell response to the type of pathogen, focusing on the tools that DC use in this management of the T cell response.
Polymorphism of host response genes: implications in the pathogenesis and treatment of acute renal failure.	Acute inflammatory disorders are the result of an interaction between genetic and environmental factors, and are often characterized by an imbalance between pro- and anti-inflammatory host immune responses. Over the past decade, polymorphisms of host response genes have been explored as genetic risk and prognostic markers in the course and severity of acute inflammatory disorders. Increasing evidence supports an important role for inflammatory mechanisms in the pathogenesis of acute renal failure (ARF) following both ischemic and nephrotoxic injury. The use of genetic epidemiology may become a useful tool to identify patients with an altered susceptibility to developing hospital-acquired ARF, and stratify those who may benefit from preventive therapies that modulate host immune responses in a favorable way. This review summarizes the existing experimental and clinical studies supporting the role of inflammation in ARF and critically appraises studies that have examined polymorphism of immune response genes as potential determinants of susceptibility to and severity of acute inflammatory disorders. Conclusions are drawn on the application of genetic epidemiology to the field of ARF and the rationale for further research on the role of genetic markers in ARF.
Enhanced tolerance to autoimmune uveitis in CD200-deficient mice correlates with a pronounced Th2 switch in response to antigen challenge.	A single exposure to inhaled Ag 10 days before immunization leads to long term, Ag-specific tolerance. Respiratory tract myeloid APCs are implicated, but how regulation is invoked, and how tolerance is sustained are unclear. This study examines the in vivo function of the myeloid regulatory molecule CD200 in the process of tolerance induction. Despite earlier onset of experimental autoimmune uveitis in sham-tolerized, CD200-deficient mice, disease incidence and subsequent severity were actually reduced compared with those in wild-type mice. Protection was more effective and long term, lasting at least 28 days. Halting disease progression and tolerance in CD200(-/-) mice correlated with a marked increase in Th2-associated cytokine production by Ag-challenged splenocytes. Reduced overall disease and enhanced tolerance in the CD200-deficient mice in this model system were unexpected and may be related to altered populations of MHC class II(low) APC in the respiratory tract compared with wild-type mice together with associated activation of STAT6 in draining lymph nodes of tolerized mice. These data indicate that in the absence of default inhibitory CD200 receptor signaling, alternative, powerful regulatory mechanisms are invoked. This may represent either permissive dominant Th2 activation or an altered hierarchy of negative signaling by other myeloid cell-expressed regulatory molecules.
CTLA-4 signaling regulates the intensity of hypersensitivity responses to food antigens, but is not decisive in the induction of sensitization.	Although food allergy has emerged as a major health problem, the mechanisms that are decisive in the development of sensitization to dietary Ag remain largely unknown. CTLA-4 signaling negatively regulates immune activation, and may play a crucial role in preventing induction and/or progression of sensitization to food Ag. To elucidate the role of CTLA-4 signaling in responses to food allergens, a murine model of peanut allergy was used. During oral exposure to peanut protein extract (PPE) together with the mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin (CT), which induces peanut allergy, CTLA-4 ligation was prevented using a CTLA-4 mAb. Additionally, the effect of inhibition of the CTLA-4 pathway on oral exposure to PPE in the absence of CT, which leads to unresponsiveness to peanut Ag, was explored. During sensitization, anti-CTLA-4 treatment considerably enhanced IgE responses to PPE and the peanut allergens, Ara h 1, Ara h 3, and Ara h 6, resulting in elevated mast cell degranulation upon an oral challenge. Remarkably, antagonizing CTLA-4 during exposure to PPE in the absence of CT resulted in significant induction of Th2 cytokines and an elevation in total serum IgE levels, but failed to induce allergen-specific IgE responses and mast cell degranulation upon a PPE challenge. These results indicate that CTLA-4 signaling is not the crucial factor in preventing sensitization to food allergens, but plays a pivotal role in regulating the intensity of a food allergic sensitization response. Furthermore, these data indicate that a profoundly Th2-biased cytokine environment is insufficient to induce allergic responses against dietary Ag.
Stimulation of host NKT cells by synthetic glycolipid regulates acute graft-versus-host disease by inducing Th2 polarization of donor T cells.	NKT cells are a unique immunoregulatory T cell population that produces large amounts of cytokines. We have investigated whether stimulation of host NKT cells could modulate acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in mice. Injection of the synthetic NKT cell ligand alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) to recipient mice on day 0 following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation promoted Th2 polarization of donor T cells and a dramatic reduction of serum TNF-alpha, a critical mediator of GVHD. A single injection of alpha-GalCer to recipient mice significantly reduced morbidity and mortality of GVHD. However, the same treatment was unable to confer protection against GVHD in NKT cell-deficient CD1d knockout (CD1d(-/-)) or IL-4(-/-) recipient mice or when STAT6(-/-) mice were used as donors, indicating the critical role of host NKT cells, host production of IL-4, and Th2 cytokine responses mediated by donor T cells on the protective effects of alpha-GalCer against GVHD. Thus, stimulation of host NKT cells through administration of NKT ligand can regulate acute GVHD by inducing Th2 polarization of donor T cells via STAT6-dependent mechanisms and might represent a novel strategy for prevention of acute GVHD.
Thioredoxin peroxidase secreted by Fasciola hepatica induces the alternative activation of macrophages.	Alternatively activated macrophages (AAMphi) are primarily associated with the chronic stages of parasitic infections and the development of a polarized Th2 response. We have shown that Fasciola hepatica infection of BALB/c mice induces a polarized Th2 response during both the latent and chronic stage of disease. The activation status of macrophages was analyzed in this model of helminth infection by evaluating the expression of genetic markers of alternative activation, namely, Fizz1, Ym1, and Arg1. AAMphi were recruited to the peritoneum of mice within 24 h of F. hepatica infection and after intraperitoneal injection of parasite excretory-secretory (ES) products. Administration of a recombinant antioxidant thioredoxin peroxidase (TPx), which is contained within the ES products, also induced the recruitment of AAMphi to the peritoneum. In vitro studies showed that this recombinant TPx directly converts RAW 264.7 macrophages to an alternatively activated phenotype characterized by the production of high levels of interleukin-10 (IL-10), prostaglandin E(2), corresponding with low levels of IL-12. Our data suggest that the Th2 responses induced by the helminth F. hepatica are mediated through the secretion of molecules, one of which is TPx, that induce the recruitment and alternative activation of macrophages.
A mutant of staphylococcal enterotoxin C devoid of bacterial superantigenic activity elicits a Th2 immune response for protection against Staphylococcus aureus infection.	Staphylococcal enterotoxin C (SEC), a bacterial superantigenic exotoxin, is commonly produced by invasive Staphylococcus aureus isolates, especially methicillin-resistant strains and isolates from animal diseases. We constructed and expressed a nontoxic mutant SEC (mSEC) and investigated whether immunization with mSEC, which is devoid of superantigenic activity, can protect against S. aureus infection. Mice were immunized with mSEC and challenged with viable S. aureus. The bacterial counts in the organs of mSEC-immunized mice were significantly lower and the survival rate was higher than the corresponding values for the control group. Immunization with mSEC strongly induced the production of T-helper 2 type antibodies, immunoglobulin G1, and immunoglobulin G2b. The production of interleukin-10 (IL-10) and IL-4 was significantly greater in immunized mice challenged with S. aureus than in the control mice, whereas the production of gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) was significantly decreased in the immunized mice. The cytokine response in a spleen cell culture that was stimulated with heat-killed S. aureus or SEC showed that immunization with mSEC inhibited IFN-gamma production and up-regulated IL-10 production in vitro. Furthermore, IFN-gamma and tumor necrosis factor alpha production in vitro was significantly inhibited by sera from mSEC-immunized mice but not by sera from control mice. These results suggest that immunization with mSEC devoid of superantigenic properties provides protection against S. aureus infection and that the protection might be mediated by SEC-specific neutralizing antibodies.
Chitinase and Fizz family members are a generalized feature of nematode infection with selective upregulation of Ym1 and Fizz1 by antigen-presenting cells.	Ym1 and Fizz1 are secreted proteins that have been identified in a variety of Th2-mediated inflammatory settings. We originally found Ym1 and Fizz1 as highly expressed macrophage genes in a Brugia malayi infection model. Here, we show that their expression is a generalized feature of nematode infection and that they are induced at the site of infection with both the tissue nematode Litomosoides sigmodontis and the gastrointestinal nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. At the sites of infection with N. brasiliensis, we also observed induction of other chitinase and Fizz family members (ChaFFs): acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) and Fizz2. The high expression of both Ym1 and AMCase in the lungs of infected mice suggests that abundant chitinase production is an important feature of Th2 immune responses in the lung. In addition to expression of ChaFFs in the tissues, Ym1 and Fizz1 expression was observed in the lymph nodes. Expression both in vitro and in vivo was restricted to antigen-presenting cells, with the highest expression in B cells and macrophages. ChaFFs may therefore be important effector or wound-repair molecules at the site of nematode infection, with potential regulatory roles for Ym1 and Fizz1 in the draining lymph nodes.
Dendritic cells activated with products released by schistosome larvae drive Th2-type immune responses, which can be inhibited by manipulation of CD40 costimulation.	The early immune events in response to infective larvae of the parasitic helminth Schistosoma mansoni are poorly understood, but here for the first time we report on the potential of products released by schistosome larvae (material released in the first 3 h after transformation [0-3hRP]) to stimulate the maturation of dendritic cells (DC) and alter their T-cell-polarizing function. This was performed in comparison with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and zymosan A, which classically activate DC to prime for Th1- and Th2-type responses, respectively. In our study, immature bone marrow-derived DC stimulated in vitro with 0-3hRP exhibited up-regulated expression of major histocompatibility complex class II, CD40, and CD86 and increased production of interleukin 12p40 (IL-12p40) and IL-6, albeit at lower levels than in response to LPS or zymosan A. Using an in vitro ovalbumin peptide-restricted priming assay, DC matured with 0-3hRP exhibited a potent capacity to drive Th2 polarization of CD4(+) cells from DO11.10 transgenic mice. This was characterized by increased IL-4 production (but not gamma interferon) of a magnitude similar to that primed by DC matured with zymosan A. Inoculation of DO11.10 mice with 0-3hRP-activated DC pulsed with ovalbumin peptide also led to the development of a Th2-type polarized response in the skin-draining lymph nodes and spleen. However, ligation of CD40 on DC by anti-CD40 antibody treatment reversed the ability of 0-3hRP-activated DC to prime for Th2-type responses and instead caused the induction of a more Th1-type response.
Distinct roles for IL-4 and IL-10 in regulating T2 immunity during allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis.	Pulmonary Cryptococcus neoformans infection of C57BL/6 mice is an established model of an allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis that has also been used to test a number of immunomodulatory agents. Our objective was to determine the role of IL-4 and IL-10 in the development/manifestation of the T2 response to C. neoformans in the lungs and lung-associated lymph nodes. In contrast to wild-type (WT) mice, which develop a chronic infection, pulmonary clearance was significantly greater in IL-4 knockout (KO) and IL-10 KO mice but was not due to an up-regulation of a non-T cell effector mechanism. Pulmonary eosinophilia was absent in both IL-4 KO and IL-10 KO mice compared with WT mice. The production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 by lung leukocytes from IL-4 KO and IL-10 KO mice was lower but IFN-gamma levels remained the same. TNF-alpha and IL-12 production by lung leukocytes was up-regulated in IL-10 KO but not IL-4 KO mice. Overall, IL-4 KO mice did not develop the systemic (lung-associated lymph nodes and serum) or local (lungs) T2 responses characteristic of the allergic bronchopulmonary C. neoformans infection. In contrast, the systemic T2 elements of the response remained unaltered in IL-10 KO mice whereas the T2 response in the lungs failed to develop indicating that the action of IL-10 in T cell regulation was distinct from that of IL-4. Thus, although IL-10 has been reported to down-regulate pulmonary T2 responses to isolated fungal Ags, IL-10 can augment pulmonary T2 responses if they occur in the context of fungal infection.
Lipoprotein I, a TLR2/4 ligand modulates Th2-driven allergic immune responses.	Asthma is an inflammatory lung disease that is initiated and directed by Th2 and inhibited by Th1 cytokines. Microbial infections have been shown to prevent allergic responses by inducing the secretion of the Th1 cytokines IL-12 and IFN-gamma. In this study, we examined whether administration of lipoprotein I (OprI) from Pseudomonas aeruginosa could prevent the inflammatory and physiological manifestations of asthma in a murine model of OVA-induced allergic asthma. OprI triggered dendritic cells to make IL-12 and TNF-alpha, with subsequent IFN-gamma production from T cells. OprI stimulation of dendritic cells involved both TLR2 and TLR4. Intranasal coadministration of OprI with OVA allergen resulted in a significant decrease in airway eosinophilia and Th2 (IL-4 and IL-13) cytokines and this effect was sustained after repeated allergen challenge. The immediate suppressive effect of OprI (within 2 days of administration) was accompanied by an increase in Th1 cytokine IFN-gamma production and a significant, but transient infiltration of neutrophils. OprI did not redirect the immune system toward a Th1 response since no increased activation of locally recruited Th1 cells could be observed upon repeated challenge with allergen. Our data show for the first time that a bacterial lipoprotein can modulate allergen-specific Th2 effector cells in an allergic response in vivo for a prolonged period via stimulation of the TLR2/4 signaling pathway.
Effects of antigen presentation of eosinophils on lung Th1/Th2 imbalance.	Antigen-loaded eosinophils (EOSs) instilled intratracheally into mice were capable of inducing Th2-type cytokine production in the draining lymph nodes. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether EOSs within the tracheobronchial lumen can stimulate Th2 cell expansion in the lung tissues.
The combined effect of IL-4 and IL-10 suppresses the generation of, but does not change the polarity of, type-1 T cells in Histoplasma infection.	Dominant type-1 cytokine production is induced in a murine model of systemic histoplasmosis. We used this model to investigate whether the presence of antagonistic cytokines during T cell priming changes the polarity of T cells in response to Histoplasma infection. Before infection with Histoplasma capsulatum, mice were injected twice with goat anti-mouse IgD antiserum (GalphaMdelta), which induced expression of dominant type-2 cytokines. At days 7 and 14 after infection, the GalphaMdelta-treated mice had suppressed IFN-gamma response and a significantly greater fungal burden in their spleens and lungs. The number of IFN-gamma-producing cells as well as the level of IFN-gamma produced per cell was greatly reduced. Not only CD4+ T cells but also CD8+ T cells were affected. The number of Histoplasma-induced IFN-gamma-producing cells was partially restored in GalphaMdelta-treated IL-4-/- and IL-10-/- mice and completely restored in IL-4-/- IL-10-/- mice. Thus, the combined effect of IL-4 and IL-10 suppressed the generation of IFN-gamma-producing cells. A longitudinal study demonstrated that as IL-4 and IL-10 decreased, the number of Histoplasma-induced IFN-gamma-producing cells rapidly increased, and fungal clearance improved, demonstrating that the presence of IL-4 and IL-10 did not permanently change the polarity of T cells.
Interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, IL-18 and IFN-gamma cytokines pattern in patients with combined hepatitis C virus and Schistosoma mansoni infections.	Schistosoma mansoni infection is characterized by a strong T-helper type 2 (Th2) cell-associated immune response, but in the case of viral infection, it is associated with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) increase and induction of Th1 immune response. Few data are available about the immune response of cases infected with combined hepatitis C virus (HCV) and schistosomiasis. Thus, the investigation of the cytokine pattern in patients coinfected with both HCV and Schistosoma mansoni was our rationale. This study included four patient groups: Group 1 included 20 patients infected with chronic HCV, Group 2 included 15 patients infected with schistosomiasis alone, Group 3 included 20 patients with chronic HCV and schistosomiasis and Group 4 included 15 healthy control individuals with matched age and sex. Serum levels of IFN-gamma, interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10 and IL-18 were measured in all groups by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results showed that the patients infected with HCV had significantly higher serum levels of IFN-gamma and IL-18 compared with the controls and with the patients with schistosomiasis and coinfection (P < 0.001). On the other hand, serum levels of IL-4 and IL-10 were significantly higher in patients with schistosomiasis and coinfection compared with the control group (P < 0.001 and 0.0001, respectively) and with the HCV patients (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively). A significant increase in serum levels of IL-4 and IL-10 was also found in HCV patients compared with the control (P < 0.05). Schistosomiasis appears to induce a Th2 cytokine profile, with increase in serum levels of IL-4 and IL-10, even in the presence of HCV coinfection. In conclusion, schistosomiasis may downregulate the stimulatory effect of HCV on Th1 cytokines and this may lead to the chronicity of HCV infection in coinfected patients.
Activation markers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in late pregnancy and after delivery: a pilot study.	To study the putative shift of a Th1 to a Th2 immune response in pregnancy and its reversal post partum in healthy women and patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Fel d 1-derived T cell peptide therapy induces recruitment of CD4+ CD25+; CD4+ interferon-gamma+ T helper type 1 cells to sites of allergen-induced late-phase skin reactions in cat-allergic subjects.	Specific immunotherapy with whole allergen extracts is associated with local accumulation of IFN-gamma+ and CD25+ cells indicating recruitment of activated T-helper type 1 (Th1) and/or T regulatory cells. We have studied allergen-induced, late-phase skin biopsies before and after T cell peptide therapy for evidence of alterations in the pattern of local recruitment of Th1, T-helper type 2 (Th2) and T regulatory cells.
Impaired interleukin (IL)-4-associated generation of CCR4-expressing T cells in neonates with hereditary allergy risk.	Reduced microbial exposure in early life may contribute to the increase of atopic diseases in 'westernized' societies but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. The objective of this study was to examine how exposure to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) during early antigen encounter might influence the maturation of neonatal lymphoid cells, and to define possible differences in this respect between neonates with high risk of allergy due to a family history (FH(+)) and controls with no apparent hereditary risk (FH(-)). Cord blood mononuclear cells from the FH(+) or FH(-) group were stimulated with pure LPS or beta-lactoglobulin (beta-LG) in the presence of LPS. T cell expression of chemokine receptors CCR4 and CXCR3 was determined by flow cytometry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Cellular expression of interleukin (IL)-4 was analysed by quantitative RT-PCR, whereas interferon (IFN)-gamma was analysed by both quantitative RT-PCR and immunoassay. Stimulation with LPS, or beta-LG together with LPS, induced up-regulation of CCR4 (P < 0.05) and CXCR3 (P < 0.05). For CCR4, such up-regulation was related to the level of IL-4 produced by the same T cells (r(S) = 0.49, P = 0.03), while CXCR3 expression was negatively correlated with the IL-4 levels (r(S) = -0.56, P = 0.02). Compared with the FH(-) group, the FH(+) group showed a significantly lower capacity for generation of CCR4(+) T cells (mean percentage of total T cells: FH(+), 2.42%versus FH(-), 5.74%; P < 0.01), whereas induction of CXCR3 and IFN-gamma did not differ significantly between the two groups. When the immune system in early life encounters antigen together with LPS, the T cell potential for compartmentalized interaction with other immune cells might be increased by elevated CCR4- and CXCR3-expression levels. In neonates at hereditary allergy risk, this putative homeostatic mechanism could theoretically be jeopardized due to decreased up-regulation of CCR4. Conversely, Th1 responses to antigen in the presence of LPS did not appear to be reduced compared with controls.
Regulatory cells and the control of respiratory infection.	The role of distinct CD4+ T-cell populations in regulating the nature and strength of immune responses is well documented, and has in the past principally focused on the mutual antagonism between Th1 and Th2 cells, which secrete interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-4, respectively. However, the recent identification of T cells that secrete high levels of IL-10 and/or transforming growth factor-b, but not IFN-g or IL-4, called regulatory T (Tr) cells has prompted a paradigm shift in our understanding of the regulation of immune responses following infection. In this review, we focus on the role of antigen-specific Tr cells in the lungs following infection with various respiratory pathogens and discuss the targeting of Tr in the development of new therapies for immune-mediated diseases, such as allergy.
Role of regulatory dendritic cells in allergy and asthma.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most efficient inducers of all immune responses, and are capable of either inducing productive immunity or maintaining the state of tolerance to self antigens and allergens. In this review, we summarize the emerging literature on DCs, with emphasis on the regulatory function of DCs in allergy and asthma. In particular, we summarize recent data regarding the relationship between DC subsets and TH1, TH2, and regulatory T (TReg) cells. The diverse functions of DCs have been attributed to distinct lineages of DCs, which arise from common immature precursor cells that differentiate in response to specific maturation-inducing or local microenvironment conditions. These subsets of DCs induce different lineages of T cells, such as TH1, TH2, and TReg cells, including Th1Reg and Th2Reg cells, which regulate allergic diseases and asthma. Subsets of DCs regulate the induction of a variety of T-cell subtypes, which suppress the development of allergy and asthma, thus providing anti-inflammatory responses and protective immunity.
Secretory products from infective forms of Nippostrongylus brasiliensis induce a rapid allergic airway inflammatory response.	Allergic asthma is responsible for widespread morbidity and mortality and its incidence has increased dramatically in industrialized countries over the past two decades. Here, we describe a new murine model of allergic asthma utilizing a novel allergen with intrinsic enzymatic activity similar to that reported for many environmental allergens. The allergen, NES, is excreted and secreted from the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, and can readily be isolated from in vitro parasite cultures. When NES is administered intranasally to presensitized mice, allergic airway disease develops, including airway hyper-responsiveness, airway eosinophilia, IgE antibody production and Th2 cytokine production. This disease is characteristic of atopic asthma and can be induced within 11 days, thus providing a platform for the rapid analysis of allergic disease and high throughput testing of immunomodulatory factors.
Polarized development of memory cell-like IFN-gamma-producing cells in the absence of TCR zeta-chain.	TCR/CD3 complex-mediated signals play critical roles in regulating CD4(+) Th cell differentiation. In this report, we have examined the in vivo role of a key TCR/CD3 complex molecule zeta-chain in regulating the differentiation of Th cells. We have studied T cells from zeta-chain-deficient mice (zetaKO mice), zeta-chain-bearing mice (zeta(+) mice), and from zetaKO mice expressing a FcRgamma chain transgene (FcRgammaTG, zetaKO mice). Our results demonstrated that, compared with those of control mice, CD4(+) T cells and not CD8(+) T cells from zetaKO mice were polarized into IFN-gamma-producing cells. Some of these IFN-gamma-producing cells could also secrete IL-10. Interestingly, zetaKO mouse T cells produced IFN-gamma even after they were cultured in a Th2 condition. Our studies to determine the molecular mechanisms underlying the polarized IFN-gamma production revealed that the expression level of STAT4 and T-bet were up-regulated in freshly isolated T cells from zetaKO mice. Further studies showed that noncultured zetaKO mice CD4(+) T cells and thymocytes bore a unique memory cell-like CD44(high), CD62L(low/neg) phenotype. Altogether, these results suggest that, in the absence of the zeta-chain, CD4(+) T cells develop as polarized IFN-gamma-producing cells that bear a memory cell-like phenotype. The zeta-chain-bearing T cells may produce a large amount of IFN-gamma only after they are cultured in a condition favoring Th1 cell differentiation. This study may provide important implications for the down-regulation of zeta-chain in T cells of patients bearing a variety of tumors, chronic inflammatory and infectious diseases.
CD70 signaling is critical for CD28-independent CD8+ T cell-mediated alloimmune responses in vivo.	The inability to reproducibly induce robust and durable transplant tolerance using CD28-B7 pathway blockade is in part related to the persistence of alloreactive effector/memory CD8(+) T cells that are less dependent on this pathway for their cellular activation. We studied the role of the novel T cell costimulatory pathway, CD27-CD70, in alloimmunity in the presence and absence of CD28-B7 signaling. CD70 blockade prolonged survival of fully mismatched vascularized cardiac allografts in wild-type murine recipients, and in CD28-deficient mice induced long-term survival while significantly preventing the development of chronic allograft vasculopathy. CD70 blockade had little effect on CD4(+) T cell function but prevented CD8(+) T cell-mediated rejection, inhibited the proliferation and activation of effector CD8(+) T cells, and diminished the expansion of effector and memory CD8(+) T cells in vivo. Thus, the CD27-CD70 pathway is critical for CD28-independent effector/memory CD8(+) alloreactive T cell activation in vivo. These novel findings have important implications for the development of transplantation tolerance-inducing strategies in primates and humans, in which CD8(+) T cell depletion is currently mandatory.
IFN-gamma determines distinct clinical outcomes in autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an inflammatory disease of the CNS initiated by autoreactive CD4(+) T cells. EAE classically presents with a progressive ascending paralysis and is a model of multiple sclerosis that recapitulates some aspects of the disease. In this report we describe a mouse strain that spontaneously develops a severe, nonclassical form of EAE with 100% incidence. The distinct clinical phenotype is marked initially by a slight head tilt, progressing to a severe head tilt, spinning, or a rotatory motion. Classical EAE spontaneously occurs in myelin basic protein (MBP)-specific TCR transgenic RAG-1(-/-) mice (referred to as T/R(-)), whereas nonclassical EAE spontaneously occurs in T/R(-) IFN-gamma(-/-) mice (T/R(-)gamma(-)). Thus, the TCR recognizes the same Ag (MBP) and uses identical TCR in both cases. The cellular infiltrate in nonclassical EAE is predominantly found in the brainstem and cerebellum, with very little inflammation in the spinal cord, which is primarily affected in classical disease. Importantly, depending on the genetic makeup and priming conditions of the MBP-specific T cells, nonclassical disease can occur in the presence of an inflammatory infiltrate with eosinophilic, neutrophilic, or monocytic characteristics. Finally, we believe that nonclassical spontaneous EAE could be a useful model for the study of some characteristics of multiple sclerosis not observed in classical EAE, such as the inflammatory responses in the brainstem and cerebellum that can cause vertigo.
Prototype Alzheimer's disease vaccine using the immunodominant B cell epitope from beta-amyloid and promiscuous T cell epitope pan HLA DR-binding peptide.	Immunization of amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice with fibrillar beta-amyloid (Abeta) prevents Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like neuropathology. The first immunotherapy clinical trial used fibrillar Abeta, containing the B and T cell self epitopes of Abeta, as the immunogen formulated with QS21 as the adjuvant in the vaccine. Unfortunately, the clinical trial was halted during the phase II stage when 6% of the participants developed meningoencephalitis. The cause of the meningoencephalitis in the patients that received the vaccine has not been definitively determined; however, analysis of two case reports from the AN-1792 vaccine trial suggest that the meningoencephalitis may have been caused by a T cell-mediated autoimmune response, whereas production of anti-Abeta Abs may have been therapeutic to the AD patients. Therefore, to reduce the risk of an adverse T cell-mediated immune response to Abeta immunotherapy we have designed a prototype epitope vaccine that contains the immunodominant B cell epitope of Abeta in tandem with the synthetic universal Th cell pan HLA DR epitope, pan HLA DR-binding peptide (PADRE). Importantly, the PADRE-Abeta(1-15) sequence lacks the T cell epitope of Abeta. Immunization of BALB/c mice with the PADRE-Abeta(1-15) epitope vaccine produced high titers of anti-Abeta Abs. Splenocytes from immunized mice showed robust T cell stimulation in response to peptides containing PADRE. However, splenocytes from immunized mice were not reactivated by the Abeta peptide. New preclinical trials in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mouse models may help to develop novel immunogen-adjuvant configurations with the potential to avoid the adverse events that occurred in the first clinical trial.
Cutaneous antigen priming via gene gun leads to skin-selective Th2 immune-inflammatory responses.	It is becoming increasingly evident that the compartmentalization of immune responses is governed, in part, by tissue-selective homing instructions imprinted during T cell differentiation. In the context of allergic diseases, the fact that "disease" primarily manifests in particular tissue sites, despite pervasive allergen exposure, supports this notion. However, whether the original site of Ag exposure distinctly privileges memory Th2 immune-inflammatory responses to the same site, while sparing remote tissue compartments, remains to be fully investigated. We examined whether skin-targeted delivery of plasmid DNA encoding OVA via gene-gun technology in mice could generate allergic sensitization and give rise to Th2 effector responses in the skin as well as in the lung upon subsequent Ag encounter. Our data show that cutaneous Ag priming induced OVA-specific serum IgE and IgG1, robust Th2-cytokine production, and late-phase cutaneous responses and systemic anaphylactic shock upon skin and systemic Ag recall, respectively. However, repeated respiratory exposure to aerosolized OVA failed to instigate airway inflammatory responses in cutaneous Ag-primed mice, but not in mice initially sensitized to OVA via the respiratory mucosa. Importantly, these contrasting airway memory responses correlated with the occurrence of Th2 differentiation events at anatomically separate sites: indeed cutaneous Ag priming resulted in Ag-specific proliferative responses and Th2 differentiation in skin-, but not thoracic-, draining lymph nodes. These data indicate that Ag exposure to the skin leads to Th2 differentiation within skin-draining lymph nodes and subsequent Th2 immunity that is selectively manifested in the skin.
One NY-ESO-1-derived epitope that promiscuously binds to multiple HLA-DR and HLA-DP4 molecules and stimulates autologous CD4+ T cells from patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing melanoma.	NY-ESO-1 is expressed by a broad range of human tumors and is often recognized by Abs in the sera of cancer patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing tumors. The NY-ESO-1 gene also encodes several MHC class I- and class II-restricted tumor epitopes recognized by T lymphocytes. In this study we report one novel pan-MHC class II-restricted peptide sequence, NY-ESO-1 87-111, that is capable of binding to multiple HLA-DR and HLA-DP4 molecules, including HLA-DRB1*0101, 0401, 0701, and 1101 and HLA-DPB1*0401 and 0402 molecules. We also demonstrate that peptide NY-ESO-1 87-111 stimulates Th1-type and Th-2/Th0-type CD4(+) T cells and clones when presented in the context of these HLA-DR and HLA-DP4 molecules. Both bulk CD4(+) T cells and CD4(+) T cell clones were capable of recognizing not only peptide-pulsed APCs, but also autologous dendritic cells, either loaded with the NY-ESO-1 protein or transfected with NY-ESO-1 cDNAs. Using IFN-gamma and IL-5 ELISPOT assays and PBL from patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing tumors, we observed the existence of Th1-type circulating CD4(+) T cells recognizing peptide NY-ESO-1 87-111 in the context of HLA-DP4 molecules. Taken together, these data represent the first report of an HLA-DR- and HLA-DP-restricted epitope from a tumor Ag. They also support the relevance of cancer vaccine trials with peptides NY-ESO-1 87-111 in the large number of cancer patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing tumors.
Cytokine mRNA profiles for isocyanates with known and unknown potential to induce respiratory sensitization.	Isocyanates are low-molecular-weight chemicals implicated in allergic asthmatic-type reactions. Identification of chemicals likely to cause asthma is difficult due to the lack of a validated test method. One hypothesis is that differential cytokine induction (Th1 versus Th2 profiles) in the draining lymph node following dermal application can be used to identify asthmagens and distinguish them from contact allergens. In this study, we compared the cytokine mRNA profiles of six chemicals: toluene diisocyanate (TDI), diphenylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (MDI), dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (HMDI), isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), p-tolyl(mono)isocyanate (TMI), and meta-tetramethylene xylene diisocyanate (TMXDI). Whereas TDI and MDI are well-known respiratory sensitizers, documentation for HMDI, IPDI, TMI, and TMXDI is limited, but suggests that HMDI and IPDI may have respiratory sensitization potential in humans and TMI and TMXDI do not. Following dermal exposure of BALB/c mice, all six isocyanates induced cytokines characteristic of a Th2 response. Although LLNAs suggested that the doses chosen for the RPA were immunologically equivalent, the isocyanates tested differentiated into two groups, high responders and low responders. However, two of the low responders (TMI and TMXDI) were further tested and induced higher levels of Th2 cytokine message than dinitrochlorobenzene (not an asthmagen). Further study of these chemicals is needed to determine whether the Th2 cytokine responses observed for these low responders is predictive of asthmagenic potential or represents an insufficient signal.
Localized multigene expression patterns support an evolving Th1/Th2-like paradigm in response to infections with Toxoplasma gondii and Ascaris suum.	Human infectious diseases have been studied in pigs because the two species have common microbial, parasitic, and zoonotic organisms, but there has been no systematic evaluation of cytokine gene expression in response to infectious agents in porcine species. In this study, pigs were inoculated with two clinically and economically important parasites, Toxoplasma gondii and Ascaris suum, and gene expression in 11 different tissues for 20 different swine Th1/Th2-related cytokines, cytokine receptors, and markers of immune activation were evaluated by real-time PCR. A generalized Th1-like pattern of gene expression was evident in pigs infected with T. gondii, along with an increased anti-inflammatory gene expression pattern during the recovery phase of the infection. In contrast, an elevated Th2-like pattern was expressed during the period of expulsion of A. suum fourth-stage larvae from the small intestine of pigs, along with low-level Th1-like and anti-inflammatory cytokine gene expression. Prototypical immune and physiological markers of infection were observed in bronchial alveolar lavage cells, small intestinal smooth muscle, and epithelial cells. This study validated the use of a robust quantitative gene expression assay to detect immune and inflammatory markers at multiple host tissue sites, enhanced the definition of two important swine diseases, and supported the use of swine as an experimental model for the study of immunity to infectious agents relevant to humans.
Th-1 and Th-2 cytokine production in infants with virus-associated wheezing.	Wheezing associated with respiratory viral infections in infancy is very common and results in high morbidity worldwide. The Th1/Th2 pattern of immune response in these patients remains unclear and previous studies have shown controversial results. The aim of the present study was to compare the type of Th1/Th2 cytokine response between infants with acute bronchiolitis, recurrent wheezing and upper respiratory infections from a developing country. Infants younger than 2 years of age admitted to Hospital So Lucas, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil, between May and November 2001, with an acute episode of wheezing associated with viral respiratory infection were selected. Subjects with upper respiratory infections from the emergency department were selected for the control group. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-4 (IL-4) levels from nasal aspirates were determined by ELISA from peripheral mononuclear cell cultures. Twenty-nine subjects with acute bronchiolitis, 18 with recurrent wheezing and 15 with upper respiratory infections were enrolled. There were no differences in family history of atopy or parental smoking between groups. Oxygen requirement was similar for the acute bronchiolitis and recurrent wheezing groups. The percentage of positive tests for the cytokines studied and the IFN-gamma/IL-4 ratio was similar for all groups. Comparison of the polarized Th1/Th2 cytokine results for the various groups showed no specific pattern of cytokine production. Infants with wheezing from a developing country do not show any specific predominant pattern of Th1/Th2 cytokine production, suggesting that multiple factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of this illness.
C3d binding to the circumsporozoite protein carboxy-terminus deviates immunity against malaria.	The immunogenicity of recombinant protein or anti-viral DNA vaccines can be significantly improved by the addition of tandem copies of the complement fragment C3d. We sought to determine if the efficacy of a circumsporozoite protein (CSP)-based DNA vaccine delivered to mouse skin by gene gun was improved by using this strategy. Instead, we found that C3d suppressed the protective immunity against Plasmodium berghei malaria infection and deviated immunity, most notably by suppressing the induction of antibodies specific for the CSP C-terminal flanking sequence and by suppressing the induction of CSP-specific IL-4-producing spleen cells. We further showed that C3d bound to the C-terminal flanking sequence of the CSP, which may explain the immune deviation observed in CS/C3d chimeric antigen. We have thus identified C3d-mediated epitope masking and shifting of both the humoral and cellular immune responses as a potential novel escape mechanism, which plasmodia may use to divert the induction of protective immunity.
Graft rejection mediated by CD4+ T cells via indirect recognition of alloantigen is associated with a dominant Th2 response.	CD4(+) T cells that respond to indirectly presented alloantigen have been shown to mediate chronic rejection, however, the role of the indirect pathway in acute rejection has yet to be completely elucidated. To this end, BALB/c or C57BL/6 mice were depleted of CD8(+) T cells and transplanted with class II transactivator (CIITA)-deficient cardiac allografts, which cannot directly present class II alloantigens to CD4(+) T cells. In this manner, the rejection response by CD4(+) cells was forced to rely upon the indirect recognition pathway. When not depleted of CD8(+) cells, both BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice rejected CIITA-/- allografts and a polarized Th1 response was observed. In contrast, when BALB/c recipients of CIITA-/- allografts were depleted of CD8(+) T cells, the grafts were acutely rejected and a strong Th2 response characterized by eosinophil influx into the graft was observed. Interestingly, CD8-depleted C57BL/6 recipients of CIITA-/- allografts did not acutely reject their transplants and a Th2 response was not mounted. These findings indicate that CD4(+) T cells responding to indirectly presented alloantigens mediate graft rejection in a Th2-dominant manner, and provide further evidence for the role of Th2 responses in acute graft rejection.
The effects of atorvastatin in experimental autoimmune uveitis.	To investigate the effect of atorvastatin (Lipitor), a commonly used drug for dyslipidaemia in experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU).
Serum immunoglobulins in psoriatic erythroderma.	The cause of psoriatic erythroderma (PE) is still unknown. Elevation of serum IgE has been reported in erythroderma, and as serum hyper-IgE is Th2 cell dominated it is of interest to investigate the serum IgE level in PE. In this study, the level of immunoglobulins in the sera of PE patients was analysed by a retrospective case-control study using psoriasis vulgaris (PV) patients as controls. The PE and PV patients were matched in a 1:3 pattern: the first three age and sex matched PV inpatients were selected. All of the subjects were nonatopic and without allergic history. The serum IgE level was found to be elevated in 81.3% of the PE group, which is much higher than that (6.3%) of the controls (odds ratio, 65.0; 95% CI, 11.7-361.2; P < 0.001; chi2 test). The mean level of serum IgE was much higher in the PE group (272.38 +/- 207.63 IU/mL vs. 53.20 +/- 86.05 IU/mL, P < 0.001, Student's t-test). No differences were found for other immunoglobulins. These results suggest that in PE the Th1/Th2 cell imbalance may be switched from Th1 dominant to Th2 dominant. The exact role of serum IgE in PE should be investigated further.
Pollen-associated phytoprostanes inhibit dendritic cell interleukin-12 production and augment T helper type 2 cell polarization.	Pollen grains induce allergies in susceptible individuals by release of allergens upon contact with mucosal membranes of the upper respiratory tract. We recently demonstrated that pollen not only function as allergen carriers but also as rich sources of bioactive lipids that attract cells involved in allergic inflammation such as neutrophils and eosinophils. Here we demonstrate that soluble factors from birch (Betula alba L.) pollen activate human dendritic cells (DCs) as documented by phenotypical and functional maturation and altered cytokine production. Betula alba L. aqueous pollen extracts (Bet.-APE) selectively inhibited interleukin (IL)-12 p70 production of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- or CD40L-activated DC, whereas IL-6, IL-10, and TNFalpha remained unchanged. Presence of Bet.-APE during DC activation resulted in DC with increased T helper type 2 (Th2) cell and reduced Th1 cell polarizing capacity. Chemical analysis of Bet.-APE revealed the presence of phytoprostanes (dinor isoprostanes) with prostaglandin E(1)-, F(1)-, A(1)-, or B(1)-ring systems of which only E(1)-phytoprostanes dose dependently inhibited the LPS-induced IL-12 p70 release and augmented the Th2 cell polarizing capacity of DC. These results suggest that pollen-derived E(1)-phytoprostanes not only resemble endogenous prostaglandin E(2) structurally but also functionally in that they act as regulators that modulate human DC function in a fashion that favors Th2 cell polarization.
The human CD1-restricted T cell repertoire is limited to cross-reactive antigens: implications for host responses against immunologically related pathogens.	The repertoires of CD1- and MHC-restricted T cells are complementary, permitting the immune recognition of both lipid and peptide Ags, respectively. To compare the breadth of the CD1-restricted and MHC-restricted T cell repertoires, we evaluated T cell responses against lipid and peptide Ags of mycobacteria in leprosy, comparing tuberculoid patients, who are able to restrict the pathogen, and lepromatous patients, who have disseminated infection. The striking finding was that in lepromatous leprosy, T cells did not efficiently recognize lipid Ags from the leprosy pathogen, Mycobacterium leprae, or the related species, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, yet were able to efficiently recognize peptide Ags from M. tuberculosis, but not M. leprae. To identify a mechanism for T cell unresponsiveness against mycobacterial lipid Ags in lepromatous patients, we used T cell clones to probe the species specificity of the Ags recognized. We found that the majority of M. leprae-reactive CD1-restricted T cell clones (92%) were cross-reactive for multiple mycobacterial species, whereas the majority of M. leprae-reactive MHC-restricted T cells were species specific (66%), with a limited number of T cell clones cross-reactive (34%) with M. tuberculosis. In comparison with the MHC class II-restricted T cell repertoire, the CD1-restricted T cell repertoire is limited to recognition of cross-reactive Ags, imparting a distinct role in the host response to immunologically related pathogens.
B7RP-1 is not required for the generation of Th2 responses in a model of allergic airway inflammation but is essential for the induction of inhalation tolerance.	The recently described ICOS-B7RP-1 costimulatory pathway has been implicated in the generation of effector Th2 responses and, hence, has become an attractive therapeutic target for allergic diseases. In the present study, we used B7RP-1-deficient mice to investigate the role of B7RP-1 in the generation and maintenance of Th2 responses in a model of mucosal allergic airway inflammation. We found that exposure of B7RP-1 knockout mice to aerosolized OVA in the context of GM-CSF leads to airway eosinophilic inflammation. This response was long lasting because rechallenge of mice with the same Ag recapitulated airway eosinophilia. Moreover, significant expression of T1/ST2 on T cells and production of Th2-affiliated cytokines (IL-5, IL-4, and IL-13) and Igs (IgE and IgG1) conclusively demonstrate the generation of a Th2 response in the absence of B7RP-1. In addition, expression of two major Th2-associated costimulatory molecules-CD28 and ICOS-indicates T cell activation in the absence of B7RP-1 signaling. Finally, B7RP-1 knockout mice are resistant to the induction of inhalation tolerance as indicated by the sustained eosinophilia in the lung and IL-5 production. In summary, our results demonstrate that in a model of mucosal allergic sensitization, the ICOS-B7RP-1 pathway is redundant for the generation of Th2 responses but essential for the induction of inhalation tolerance.
The increasing prevalence of Crohn's disease in industrialized societies: the price of progress?	Crohn's disease (CD) is an idiopathic inflammatory condition of the gastrointestinal system. While inflammation can activate one of a number of specific branches of the immune system, CD promotes a T helper cell type 1 (Th1) profile. The prospect that CD is a form of Th1-dominant autoimmune disease is gaining acceptance, with support from the current use of immunosuppressants. Recently, convincing evidence that the various branches of the immune system have the ability to keep each other in check has suggested that the Th1 profile of CD may stem from a greatly reduced T helper cell type 2 (Th2) immune response. A strong Th2 immune response is a characteristic of the once prevalent enteric parasitic diseases, now nearly eradicated from industrial society. This has led to the acceptance of a hygiene hypothesis, which suggests that the inverse relationship between CD and the level of a society's industrialization is, in fact, causal - that the lack of parasitic infections causes a weakened systemic Th2 cytokine profile, leading to elevated Th1 cytokines and, ultimately, the development of spontaneous Th1-mediated diseases such as CD. Supporting this, it has been recently demonstrated that an experimentally-induced Th2 response can help moderate Th1-dominant events in both animal and human studies. Based on this recent and convincing work, the present review focuses on the role of immunoregulation in the development of CD, with particular emphasis on the potential use of Th2-promoting agents (such as helminths or cytokines) as therapeutics in the treatment or prevention of CD.
Gastric helicobacter infection induces a Th2 phenotype but does not elevate serum cholesterol in mice lacking inducible nitric oxide synthase.	Persistent Helicobacter felis infection in (C57BL/6 x 129SvEv)F1 mice induces chronic gastritis. Expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is upregulated in response to Helicobacter infection. In this study, 20 10-week-old iNOS-/- mice and 20 wild-type [(C57BL/6 x 129SvEv)F1] mice were infected with H. felis by oral gavage and were assessed histologically and serologically at 32 weeks postinfection. Equal numbers of uninfected controls were sham inoculated. The mice were scored for severity of gastric inflammation, hyperplasia, glandular atrophy, and mucous metaplasia in the corpus and for the level of helicobacter colonization. The immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1), IgG2a, and IgG2c antibody responses to H. felis were determined. As a secondary measure, serum cholesterol levels were assessed. iNOS-/- mice have a propensity for increased serum cholesterol, and although controversial, several human epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an association between Helicobacter infection and several risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including elevated serum cholesterol. Nevertheless, no differences in serum cholesterol levels were observed between the H. felis-infected and -uninfected iNOS-/- mice in this study. The uninfected animals had minimal to no gastric pathology. The gastric pathology scores for the infected animals were reduced significantly in the iNOS-deficient mice relative to those for the wild-type mice (all P <0.01). Helicobacter-infected iNOS-/- mice had chronic lymphoid infiltration and negligible to mild glandular atrophy and mucous metaplasia in the fundic mucosa, while H. felis-infected wild-type mice had severe atrophic and metaplastic mucosal changes. The atrophic gastritis in the infected wild-type mice, particularly the female mice, was also accompanied by greater granulocytic infiltration, antral hyperplasia, and diminished antral colonization, unlike that in the infected iNOS-/- mice. iNOS-/- mice developed significantly lower Th1-associated IgG2c antibody responses to H. felis (P <0.0003); the Th2-associated IgG1 responses were similar (P=0.09), suggesting a greater effect of the iNOS defect on Th1 responses. H. felis colonization was significantly greater in the iNOS-deficient mice. These findings are indicative of an impaired Th1 component of the H. felis-induced inflammatory response when the influence of iNOS is removed.
Aerogenic vaccination with a Burkholderia mallei auxotroph protects against aerosol-initiated glanders in mice.	Burkholderia mallei is an obligate mammalian pathogen that causes the zoonotic disease glanders. Two live attenuated B. mallei strains, a capsule mutant and a branched-chain amino acid auxotroph, were evaluated for use as vaccines against aerosol-initiated glanders in mice. Animals were aerogenically vaccinated and serum samples were obtained before aerosol challenge with a high-dose (>300 times the LD50) of B. mallei ATCC 23344. Mice vaccinated with the capsule mutant developed a Th2-like Ig subclass antibody response and none survived beyond 5 days. In comparison, the auxotrophic mutant elicited a Th1-like Ig subclass antibody response and 25% of the animals survived for 1 month postchallenge. After a low-dose (5 times the LD50) aerosol challenge, the survival rates of auxotroph-vaccinated and unvaccinated animals were 50 and 0%, respectively. Thus, live attenuated strains that promote a Th1-like Ig response may serve as promising vaccine candidates against aerosol infection with B. mallei.
Consensual immunity: success-driven development of T-helper-1 and T-helper-2 responses.	Non-germline-encoded T- and B-cell receptors allow humans to effectively deal with rapidly mutating pathogens. Here, we argue that, in addition to determining the antigenic specificity of immune responses, the same receptor systems can also regulate the T-helper-1/T-helper-2 profile of immunity. Such a mechanism--based on feedback from distinct effector cells to dendritic cells, rather than on instruction from pathogens--uses the effectiveness of particular effector cells at targeting and destroying a pathogen as a reliable, experience-based criterion to induce and maintain the appropriately polarized response.
CpG ODNs treatments of HIV-1 infected patients may cause the decline of transmission in high risk populations - a review, hypothesis and implications.	The Joint United Nations Program on HIV-1/AIDS (UNAIDS) announced its goal to stop HIV-1 transmission by antiviral (HAART) treatment of patients since at the end of 2003 the number of people living with HIV-1 was 38 million, 25 million in the sub-Saharan region of Africa. The present review deals with a new approach to simultaneously treat HIV-1/AIDS patients in HIV-1 endemic regions with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) and people at high risk of infection with a vaccine containing CpG ODNs combined with synthetic HIV-1 peptides by intranasal and intradermal applications. During HIV-1 infection a gradual increase in the levels of IL-4 and IgE in the patients' serum, was reported. It was suggested that such an increase of the cytokine IL-4 and the IgE immunoglobulin are interconnected and may serve as indicators for the coming stage of AIDS. It was also suggested that the IL-4 and IgE increase in the serum of HIV-1 infected people resemble the increase of IL-4 and IgE levels in allergic patients that were exposed to endogenous or environmental allergens [Becker, Virus Genes 28, 5--18, 2004]. Indeed, it was reported that the HIV-1 virions' shed gp120 molecules, which contain a superantigen (superallergen) domain that enables the viral glycoprotein to bind the V(H)3 domain of IgE molecules that are bound to FcepsilonRI+ hematopoietic cells [basophils, mast cells, dendritic cells (DCs) and plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs)]. Such interaction was reported to induce the hematopoietic cells to release large amounts of Th2 cytokines IL-4, IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13. These findings led to the hypothesis [Op. cit.] that the cure of HIV-1/AIDS patients requires the induction of endogenous synthesis of type I interferons (INF alpha and beta) with a bacterial CpG rich DNA that will induce the patients' pDCs to release large amounts of type I IFNs. Under these conditions HIV-1 replication in polarized to Th2 cells is inhibited. Type I IFNs reactivate the patients' inhibited Th1 cells to synthesize IL-2 and IL-12 cytokines that activate the maturation of CTL precursors. The unmethylated bacterial DNA activates B synthesis to switch to IgG and IgA synthesis. The novel drug CpG ODNs is being tested for the prevention and the treatment of allergic humans and in the experimental system of allergic mice. It was also reported that treatment of mice with CpG ODN prior to or after retrovirus infections protected and cured, respectively, the retrovirus infection. It was also reported that CpG ODNs treatments of mice exposed to allergen protected them against the development of the allergic response. Phase I treatment of healthy people with CpG ODNs provided information on the safety of these compounds. The CpG ODNs A and B bind to Toll like receptors that are present in pDCs and B cells, respectively, CpG ODN - A is the ligand for TLR9+ pDCs and induce the release of large amounts of IFN-alpha, beta. CpG ODN-B is the ligand for TLR9+ in B cells and induce the synthesis of IgG and IgA. CpG ODN-C contains motifs from CpG ODNs A and B and is more active. The present review is based on findings from studies that reported that CpG ODNs treatment of retrovirus infected mice, monkeys and allergic mice prevented the virus and allergens caused diseases, respectively. Based on these studies, a hypothesis is presented that treatment of HIV-1 infected and AIDS patients with CpG ODN-A and B or CpG ODN-C have the potential to inhibit IL-4 synthesis and release from FcrepsilonRI+ hematopoietic cells by inducing TLR9+ pDCs to release large amounts of type I IFNs. TLR9+ B cells are induced by CpG ODN-B to switch from IgE to IgG, IgA synthesis. In addition, type I IFNs (alpha, beta) have the capacity to inhibit HIV-1 replication in polarized Th2 cells. Type I IFNs reactivate the patients' Th1 cells to synthesize IL-2 and IL-12 cytokines, activators of the precursor cytotoxic T cells (CTLs), leading to the reactivation of the inhibited adaptive immune response. Antiviral CTLs have the ability to clear the virus infection. The present novel approach to the treatment and of HIV-1/AIDS patients with CpG ODNs may prevent HIV-1 transmission and the AIDS pandemic if controlled studies on the treatments with CpG ODNs of HIV-1 infected people will be done by international and private agencies and companies to define the effective treatment regime and the efficacy of the treatments to HIV-1 infected people at different times post-infection. It is also hypothesized that in order to stop HIV-1 transmission in HIV-1 endemic regions the people at high risk of HIV-1 infection should be treated at the same time as HIV-1 infected people with a vaccine containing synthetic CpG-ODNs combined with synthetic HIV-1 peptides, compatible with the major HLA haplotypes of the regional population. The vaccine may be self-applied by people at high risk of infection by the intra-nasal route and by intra-dermal application as a "peplotion vaccine". The stimulation of the antiviral CTL response by HIV-1 infected people and the active antiviral immune response in the vaccinated population may lead to a decline in HIV-1 transmission and may be a model for control of the HIV-1/AIDS pandemic.
Effects of HGF on GVHD and Th1/Th2-related cytokines in ALL mice after allo-BMT]	To observe the effects of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) on graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and Th1/Th2 related cytokines in mice with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) after allogenic bone marrow transplantation (allo-BMT), BALB/c mice were conditioned by total body irradiation with 11 Gy and then were transplanted with allogeneic bone marrow after establishing ALL model. BALB/c mice were divided into groups A and B. The mice of group A were injected subcutaneously with HGF from day 0 to 7 after allo-BMT, and the mice of group B were injected subcutaneously with PBS from day 0 to 7 after allo-BMT. The symptoms of GVHD and the GVHD pathological changes of liver and small intestine and skin were observed. The serum levels of both IFN-gamma and IL-4 were determined by ELISA. The results showed that the score of GVHD in group A was lower than that in group B (P < 0.05). The levels of IFN-gamma in both groups A and B were all higher than that in normal group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively), However, the level of IFN-gamma in group A was lower than that in group B (P < 0.01). The levels of IL-4 in both group A and B were all lower than that in normal group (P < 0.05), but the level of IL-4 in group A was higher than that in group B (P < 0.05). It is concluded that HGF can alleviates the severity of GVHD, because of its balancing the Th1/Th2-related cytokines after allo-BMT.
Exacerbation of granuloma formation in IL-1 receptor antagonist-deficient mice with impaired dendritic cell maturation associated with Th2 cytokine production.	Dendritic cell (DC) maturation at the site of inflammation and migration into draining lymph nodes is fundamental to initiate Ag-specific immune responses. Although several proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-1, are known to promote DC maturation in vitro, their contributions to DC activation and migration within peripheral inflamed tissue compartments are not yet fully understood. We show here that endogenous IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) controls the activation state of liver-recruited DCs and their migration in a Propionibacterium acnes-induced murine granulomatous liver disease model. After P. acnes treatment, formation of portal tract-associated lymphoid tissue was conversely impaired in IL-1ra-deficient mice. IL-1ra-deficient mice developed hepatic granulomas within 3 days after P. acnes administration and showed a more pronounced granuloma formation than wild-type mice. Although sinusoidal granulomas contained numerous CD11c+ DCs at day 7, expressions of CCR7, IL-12p40 by these DCs were dramatically decreased in IL-1ra-deficient mice, suggesting aberrant DC maturation and sinusoid portal migration in the absence of endogenous IL-1ra. This was accompanied with enhanced intrahepatic Th2 cytokine production and severe hepatocellular damage. Thus, hepatocyte-derived IL-1ra may control optimal activation and migration of inflammatory DCs within the liver and thereby determine the local immune responses in granulomatous liver disease.
IL-10-dependent suppression of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis by Th2-differentiated, anti-TCR redirected T lymphocytes.	We previously showed that transgenically expressed chimeric Ag-MHC-zeta receptors can Ag-specifically redirect T cells against other T cells. When the receptor's extracellular Ag-MHC domain engages cognate TCR on an Ag-specific T cell, its cytoplasmic zeta-chain stimulates the chimeric receptor-modified T cell (RMTC). This induces effector functions such as cytolysis and cytokine release. RMTC expressing a myelin basic protein (MBP) 89-101-IAs-zeta receptor can be used therapeutically, Ag-specifically treating murine experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) mediated by MBP89-101-specific T cells. In initial studies, isolated CD8+ RMTC were therapeutically effective whereas CD4+ RMTC were not. We re-examine here the therapeutic potential of CD4+ RMTC. We demonstrate that Th2-differentiated, though not Th1-differentiated, CD4+ MBP89-101-IAs-zeta RMTC prevent actively induced or adoptively transferred EAE, and treat EAE even after antigenic diversification of the pathologic T cell response. The Th2 RMTC both Th2-deviate autoreactive T cells and suppress autoantigen-specific T cell proliferation. IL-10 is critical for the suppressive effects. Anti-IL-10R blocks RMTC-mediated modulation of EAE and suppression of autoantigen proliferation, as well as the induction of IL-10 production by autoreactive T cells. In contrast to IL-10, IL-4 is required for IL-4 production by, and hence Th2 deviation of autoreactive T cells, but not the therapeutic activity of the RMTC. These results therefore demonstrate a novel immunotherapeutic approach for the Ag-specific treatment of autoimmune disease with RMTC. They further identify an essential role for IL-10, rather than Th2-deviation itself, in the therapeutic effectiveness of these redirected Th2 T cells.
Functional promoter polymorphism in the TBX21 gene associated with aspirin-induced asthma.	Asthma is a phenotypically heterogeneous disorder with many etiologic factors and clinical characteristics. T-bet, a Th1-specific transcription factor of T-box family, has been found to control interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) expression in T cells. Mice lacking the T-bet gene (tbx21) demonstrate multiple physiological and inflammatory features reminiscent of human asthma. In order to examine whether polymorphisms in the candidate gene, TBX21, located on chromosome 17q21.32, are related to the risk of human asthma phenotypes, we have searched for genetic variations in the human TBX21 gene and identified 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including five novel SNPs, by direct sequencing in Japanese subjects. Among asthma phenotypes, a promoter -1993T-->C SNP, which is in linkage disequilibrium with a synonymous coding 390A-->G SNP in exon 1, is significantly associated with a risk of aspirin-induced asthma (AIA; P = 0.004, P(c) = 0.016). This association has also been confirmed in additional independent samples of asthma with nasal polyposis (P = 0.008), regardless of aspirin hypersensitivity. Furthermore, our data indicate that the -1993T-->C substitution increases the affinity of a particular nuclear protein to the binding site of TBX21 covering the -1993 position, resulting in increased transcriptional activity of the TBX21 gene. Thus, in addition to the antigen-driven excess Th2 response, increased T-bet (and subsequent IFN-gamma) production in human airways of individuals with the -1993T-->C polymorphism could contribute to the development of certain asthma-related phenotypes, such as AIA.
Arginase and polyamine synthesis are key factors in the regulation of experimental leishmaniasis in vivo.	Arginase 1, an enzyme induced by Th2 cytokines, is a hallmark of alternatively activated macrophages and is responsible for the hydrolysis of L-arginine into ornithine, the building block for the production of polyamines. Upregulation of arginase 1 has been observed in a variety of diseases, but the mechanisms by which arginase contributes to pathology are not well understood. We reveal here a unique role for arginase 1 in the pathogenesis of nonhealing leishmaniasis, a prototype Th2 disease, and demonstrate that the activity of this enzyme promotes pathology and uncontrolled growth of Leishmania parasites in vivo. Inhibition of arginase activity during the course of infection has a clear therapeutic effect, as evidenced by markedly reduced pathology and efficient control of parasite replication. Despite the clear amelioration of the disease, this treatment does not alter the Th2 response. To address the underlying mechanisms, the arginase-induced L-arginine catabolism was investigated and the results demonstrate that arginase regulates parasite growth directly by affecting the polyamine synthesis in macrophages.
Contrasting effects of acute and chronic gastro-intestinal helminth infections on a heterologous immune response in a transgenic adoptive transfer model.	We have previously found that co-immunisation with ovalbumin (OVA) and the body fluid of the helminth Ascaris suum inhibited an OVA-specific delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) response by reducing OVA-specific CD4+ T lymphocyte proliferation via an IL-4 independent mechanism. In the present study, we determined whether parasite infections themselves could induce similar changes to peripheral immunisation by examining the modulation of OVA-specific immune responses during acute and chronic helminth infections. Surprisingly, an acute infection with Trichinella spiralis, but not a chronic infection with Heligmosomoides polygyrus, inhibited the OVA-specific DTH reaction. Correspondingly, the T helper 1 (Th1) OVA-specific response was decreased in mice infected with T. spiralis, but not with H. polygyrus. Inhibition of the Th1 response may be a result of a shift in the Th1/Th2 balance as although both H. polygyrus and T. spiralis infected mice induced a Th2 OVA-specific response, that exhibited by T. spiralis was more potent. Furthermore, although IL-10 secretion upon OVA restimulation was similarly increased by both infections, production of this immunoregulatory cytokine may play a role in the suppression of immune responses observed with T. spiralis infection depending on the context of its release. Interestingly, analysis of the OVA-specific T lymphocyte division by carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE) staining revealed that gastro-intestinal infection with the acute helminth T. spiralis, but not with chronic H. polygyrus, inhibited the systemic immune response by significantly inhibiting the antigen-specific T cell proliferation during the primary response, a mechanism similar to that observed when A. suum parasite extracts were directly mixed with the OVA during immunisation in our previous studies.
Cutting edge: atopy promotes Th2 responses to alloantigens and increases the incidence and tempo of corneal allograft rejection.	A large body of evidence suggests that corneal allograft rejection is mediated by a type 1 Th cell response and that deviation toward type 2 immunity favors graft survival. However, clinical observations indicate that patients with severe ocular allergies have increased risk of corneal allograft rejection. We used a mouse model of atopic conjunctivitis to evaluate the effects of Th2 immune deviation on corneal allograft survival and possible mechanisms of graft rejection. Our results reveal the following novel findings: 1) atopic conjunctivitis promotes systemic Th2 immune responses to corneal graft donor alloantigens; 2) corneal allografts in atopic host eyes have an increased incidence and swifter tempo of rejection; 3) increased rejection is associated with alterations in systemic T cell-mediated responses to donor alloantigens; and 4) corneal allograft rejection in atopic hosts does not require the direct involvement of infiltrating eosinophils.
IL-4-induced priming of human intestinal mast cells for enhanced survival and Th2 cytokine generation is reversible and associated with increased activity of ERK1/2 and c-Fos.	In synergy with stem cell factor (SCF), IL-4 strongly enhances mast cell proliferation and shifts IgE-dependent cytokine production in mature human mast cells toward an increased release of Th2 cytokines such as IL-3, IL-5, and IL-13 and a decreased IL-6 expression. In this study we analyzed the kinetics and the mechanisms of these IL-4 effects on mast cells purified from intestinal tissue. If the cells were first cultured with IL-4 for 14 days and then without IL-4 for another 14 days, mast cells lost the capacity of producing higher amounts of Th2 cytokines and regained the capacity of producing IL-6. The IL-4-induced up-regulation of mast cell proliferation and FcepsilonRI expression was also reversible if IL-4 was withdrawn for 14 days. Interestingly, in contrast to IL-4, proliferation and phenotype of human intestinal mast cells were not affected by IL-13 although both cytokines were capable of inducing STAT6 activation. Instead, IL-4 treatment (but not IL-13 treatment) was associated with an increased activity of ERK1/2 and c-Fos, the downstream target of ERK1/2 and component of the transcription factor AP-1. Consistently, mast cell proliferation and cytokine expression in response to IL-4 was blocked by the MEK inhibitor PD98059. In summary, our data show that the IL-4 effects on human intestinal mast cell functions are reversible and accompanied by an increased activity of ERK1/2 and c-Fos.
In vivo IL-10 gene delivery suppresses airway eosinophilia and hyperreactivity by down-regulating APC functions and migration without impairing the antigen-specific systemic immune response in a mouse model of allergic airway inflammation.	IL-10 is an immunosuppressive cytokine. Although previous studies have reported that exogenous delivery of IL-10 reduced airway inflammation in experimental allergic airway inflammation, the mechanism of action has not been fully clarified. In this report, we elucidated a mechanism of action of IL-10 in vivo. BALB/c mice were immunized and aerosol challenged with OVA-Ag. We delivered the IL-10 gene to the mice before systemic sensitization or during aerosol Ag challenge by administering an IL-10-producing plasmid vector. Not only presensitization delivery of IL-10, as reported, but also delivery during inflammation strongly suppressed the development of airway eosinophilia and hyperreactivity. Presensitization delivery suppressed the Ag-specific Th2-type immune response in both the lung and spleen. In contrast, delivery in the effector phase suppressed the Th2 response only in the lung, whereas that in the spleen was not affected. IL-10 gene delivery did not induce the development of a regulatory phenotype of T cells or dendritic cells; rather, it suppressed the overall functions of CD11c(+) APCs of the lung such as Ag-presenting capacity, cytokine production, and transportation of OVA-Ag to lymph nodes, thus attenuating Th2-mediated allergic airway inflammation. Further, IL-10 revealed a distinct immunosuppressive effect in the presence of Ag and APCs. These results suggest that suppression of APC function in the lung, the site of immune response, played a critical role in the IL-10-mediated suppression of Ag-induced airway inflammation and hyperreactivity. Therefore, if delivered selectively, IL-10 could site specifically suppress the Ag-specific immune response without affecting systemic immune responses.
Liposome-mediated combinatorial cytokine gene therapy induces localized synergistic immunosuppression and promotes long-term survival of cardiac allografts.	Localized gene transfer has the potential to introduce immunosuppressive molecules only into the transplanted allograft, which would limit systemic side effects, and prolong allograft survival. However, an applicable gene transfer strategy is not available, and the feasible therapeutic gene(s) has not yet been determined. We developed an ex vivo liposome-mediated gene therapy strategy that is able to intracoronary deliver the combination of IL-4 and IL-10 cDNA expression vectors to the allograft simultaneously. We examined the efficiency, efficacy, and cardiac adverse effects of this combinatorial gene therapy protocol using a rabbit functional cervical heterotopic heart transplant model. Although the efficiency was moderate, the expression of both transgenes was long lasting and localized only in the target organ. The mean survival of cardiac allograft was prolonged from 7 to >100 days. Synergism of overexpressed IL-4 and IL-10 in the inhibition of T lymphocyte infiltration and cytoxicity, and modulation of Th1/Th2 cytokine production promote long-term survival of cardiac allografts.
Dendritic cell-intrinsic expression of NF-kappa B1 is required to promote optimal Th2 cell differentiation.	A number of receptors and signaling pathways can influence the ability of dendritic cells (DC) to promote CD4(+) Th type 1 (Th1) responses. In contrast, the regulatory pathways and signaling events that govern the ability of DC to instruct Th2 cell differentiation remain poorly defined. In this report, we demonstrate that NF-kappaB1 expression within DC is required to promote optimal Th2 responses following exposure to Schistosoma mansoni eggs, a potent and natural Th2-inducing stimulus. Although injection of S. mansoni eggs induced production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 in the draining lymph node of wild-type (WT) mice, NF-kappaB1(-/-) hosts failed to express Th2 cytokines and developed a polarized Ag-specific IFN-gamma response. In an in vivo adoptive transfer model in which NF-kappaB-sufficient OVA-specific DO11.10 TCR transgenic T cells were injected into OVA-immunized WT or NF-kappaB1(-/-) hosts, NF-kappaB1(-/-) APCs efficiently promoted CD4(+) T cell proliferation and IFN-gamma responses, but failed to promote Ag-specific IL-4 production. Further, bone marrow-derived DC from NF-kappaB1(-/-) mice failed to promote OVA-specific Th2 cell differentiation in in vitro coculture studies. Last, S. mansoni egg Ag-pulsed NF-kappaB1(-/-) DC failed to prime for Th2 cytokine responses following injection into syngeneic WT hosts. Impaired Th2 priming by NF-kappaB1(-/-) DC was accompanied by a reduction in MAPK phosphorylation in Ag-pulsed DC. Taken together, these studies identify a novel requirement for DC-intrinsic expression of NF-kappaB1 in regulating the MAPK pathway and governing the competence of DC to instruct Th2 cell differentiation.
Kinetoplastid membrane protein-11 DNA vaccination induces complete protection against both pentavalent antimonial-sensitive and -resistant strains of Leishmania donovani that correlates with inducible nitric oxide synthase activity and IL-4 generation: evidence for mixed Th1- and Th2-like responses in visceral leishmaniasis.	The emergence of an increasing number of Leishmania donovani strains resistant to pentavalent antimonials (SbV), the first line of treatment for visceral leishmaniasis worldwide, accounts for decreasing efficacy of chemotherapeutic interventions. A kinetoplastid membrane protein-11 (KMP-11)-encoding construct protected extremely susceptible golden hamsters from both pentavalent antimony responsive (AG83) and antimony resistant (GE1F8R) virulent L. donovani challenge. All the KMP-11 DNA vaccinated hamsters continued to survive beyond 8 mo postinfection, with the majority showing sterile protection. Vaccinated hamsters showed reversal of T cell anergy with functional IL-2 generation along with vigorous specific anti-KMP-11 CTL-like response. Cytokines known to influence Th1- and Th2-like immune responses hinted toward a complex immune modulation in the presence of a mixed Th1/Th2 response in conferring protection against visceral leishmaniasis. KMP-11 DNA vaccinated hamsters were protected by a surge in IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and IL-12 levels along with extreme down-regulation of IL-10. Surprisingly the prototype candidature of IL-4, known as a disease exacerbating cytokine, was found to have a positive correlation to protection. Contrary to some previous reports, inducible NO synthase was actively synthesized by macrophages of the protected hamsters with concomitant high levels of NO production. This is the first report of a vaccine conferring protection to both antimony responsive and resistant Leishmania strains reflecting several aspects of clinical visceral leishmaniasis.
Nasal IL-12p70 DNA prevents and treats intestinal allergic diarrhea.	OVA-induced allergic diarrhea occurs as a consequence of over-expression of Th1 inhibitory IL-12p40 monomers and homodimers in the large intestine, establishing a dominant Th2-type environment. In this study, we demonstrate that intranasally administered murine IL-12p70 naked DNA expression plasmids resulted in the synthesis of corresponding cytokine in the large intestinal CD11c(+) dendritic cells, leading to the inhibition of Ag-specific Th2-type response for the prevention of allergic diarrhea and the suppression of clinical symptoms including OVA-specific IgE Ab synthesis. The nasal IL-12p70 DNA treatment proved effective even after the establishment of allergic diarrhea. These results suggest that the mucosal administration of naked IL-12p70 DNA plasmid should be considered as a possible preventive and therapeutic treatment for Th2 cell-mediated food allergic diseases in the intestinal tract.
Relationship of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells to immune status in HIV-infected patients.	To determine whether the frequencies of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (T Reg) were related to immune status in HIV-infected patients.
Distinct Th1- and Th2-Type prenatal cytokine responses to Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte invasion ligands.	Prenatal immunity to Plasmodium falciparum merozoite proteins involved in erythrocyte invasion may contribute to the partial protection against malaria that is acquired during infancy in areas of stable malaria transmission. We examined newborn and maternal cytokine and antibody responses to merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP-1), ribosomal phosphoprotein P0 (PfP0), and region II of erythrocyte binding antigen-175 (EBA-175) in infant-mother pairs in Kenya. Overall, 82 of 167 (50%), 106 of 176 (60%), and 38 of 84 (45%) cord blood lymphocytes (CBL) from newborns produced one or more cytokines in response to MSP-1, PfP0, and EBA-175, respectively. Newborns of primigravid and/or malaria-infected women were more likely to have antigen-responsive CBL than were newborns of multigravid and/or uninfected women at delivery. Newborn cytokine responses did not match those of their mothers and fell into three distinct categories, Th1 (21 of 55 CBL donors produced only gamma interferon and/or interleukin 2 [IL-2]), Th2 (21 of 55 produced only IL-5 and/or IL-13), and mixed Th1/Th2 (13 of 55). Newborns produced more IL-10 than adults. High and low levels of cord blood IL-12 p70 production induced by anti-CD40 activation were associated with malaria-specific Th1 and Th2 responses, respectively. Antigen-responsive CBL in some newborns were detected only after depletion of IL-10-secreting CD8 cells with enrichment for CD4 cells. These data indicate that prenatal sensitization to blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum occurs frequently in areas where malaria is holoendemic. Modulation of this immunity, possibly by maternal parity and malaria, may affect the acquisition of protective immunity against malaria during infancy.
Bacillus clausii exerts immuno-modulatory activity in allergic subjects: a pilot study.	Bacillus clausii has been demonstrated to exert some immunomodulatory activities and to be safe. Allergic subjetcs show Th2 polarization and defect of T regulatory cells. Aim of the study was to investigate whether Bacillus clausii administration in allergic subjects might modulate cytokine pattern. Ten subjects (mean age 22.3 years) suffering from allergic rhinitis were enrolled. Bacillus clausii spores (Enterogermina: 2 billions spores/vial) were administered at the dosage schedule of 3 vials a day for 4 weeks. Nasal lavage was performed in all subjects before and after the treatment. A panel of cytokines, including IL4, IL10, IFNgamma, and TGFbeta, was measured by immunoassay in the fluid recovered from nasal lavage, before and after the treatment.
Sublingual specific immunotherapy reduces PBMC proliferations.	Subcutaneous specific immunotherapy has been demonstrated capable of inducing T regulatory response. There is few evidence concerning immunological changes induced by sublingual immunotherapy.
Cytokines and fungal infections.	The very poor outcome of invasive fungal infections (IFI) in patients with haematological malignancies or recipients of haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is largely attributed to their compromised host defence mechanisms. The restoration or augmentation of immune responses in these patients is now considered as one of the cornerstones of effective antifungal therapy. Major advances in the field of experimental immunology have provided insight on the important regulatory role of cytokines in both innate and adaptive immunity to fungal pathogens. Preclinical studies have convincingly demonstrated that immunomodulation with cytokines can enhance the antifungal activity of neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages as well as upregulate protective T-helper type 1 adaptive immune responses. Evidence on the clinical use of cytokines in immunocompromised hosts with IFI is, however, still scant and inconclusive. The present review summarizes experimental and clinical data on the role of cytokines in the immune response to fungal pathogens and on their potential use for prevention or treatment of fungal infections. Implications for future research are also briefly discussed.
Abdominal surgical interventions: local and systemic consequences for the immune system--a prospective study on elective gastrointestinal surgery.	Little is known about the local accumulation and function of immune cells in peritoneal fluid after elective surgery of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Our study was designed to investigate whether systemic immune cell response mirrors the local response. We focused on the cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and on monocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and T cells that play an important role in eliciting the innate and adaptive immune response.
Vaccinia virus induces strong immunoregulatory cytokine production in healthy human epidermal keratinocytes: a novel strategy for immune evasion.	Iatrogenic cutaneous infection with vaccinia virus (VV) and naturally occurring systemic infection with variola virus both lead to the characteristic skin "pox" lesions. Despite significant medical experience with both viruses, surprisingly little is understood about the interactions between these poxviruses and healthy resident skin cells. In recent years, it has become clear that skin plays an essential role in modulating both innate and adaptive immune responses, in part by producing and responding to a variety of cytokines and chemokines upon stimulation. Antagonists of many of these compounds are encoded in poxvirus genomes. Infection of skin cells with poxvirus may lead to a unique pattern of cytokine and chemokine production that might alter the cutaneous immune surveillance function. In this study, we infected primary cultures of human skin cells with VV and monitored antigen expression, virus replication, and cytokine production from the infected cells. While T cells, Langerhans cells, and dermal dendritic cells were infected abortively, keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts, and dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC-d) all supported the complete virus life cycle. In contrast to the robust viral replication in fibroblasts and HMVEC-d, only limited viral replication was observed in keratinocytes. Importantly, VV infection of keratinocytes led to up-regulation of immunoregulatory and Th2 cytokines, including transforming growth factor beta, interleukin-10 (IL-10), and IL-13. We propose that the rapid induction of keratinocyte Th2 and immunoregulatory cytokines represents a poxvirus strategy to evade immune surveillance, and the limited viral multiplication in keratinocytes may be a protective mechanism to help the immune system "win the race."
Tissue migration by parasitic helminths - an immunoevasive strategy?	Migration through host tissues has major costs for parasitic helminths in terms of energy expenditure, risks of attrition and the need to adapt to varying physicochemical environments. Nevertheless, such migratory phases seem to confer a specific survival advantage. One reason for this might be the avoidance of specific host immune-defence mechanisms designed to protect against threats at mucosal surfaces.
Relationships between allergic inflammation and nasal airflow in children with persistent allergic rhinitis due to mite sensitization.	Allergic rhinitis is associated with Th2-dependent inflammation. Nasal obstruction is the most typical symptom in children with mite allergy.
Cytokine gene polymorphism in Iranian patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia.	Chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) is a disorder of the haematopoietic stem cell that results in malignant expansion of myeloid cells with a cytogenetic abnormality, and translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22, known as the Philadelphia chromosome. It has been hypothesized that genetic factors other than histocompatibility disparity may play a role in predisposition to developing CML. In this regard, T helper types 1 and 2 (Th1 and Th2) cytokines and their gene polymorphism seem to be important. Overall expression and secretion of cytokines are dependent, at least in part, on genetic polymorphism (nucleotide variations) within the promoter region or other regulatory sequences of cytokine genes. The majority of polymorphisms described are single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs). The objective of this study was to analyse the genetic profile of Th1 and Th2 cytokines in 30 Iranian patients with CML and 40 healthy subjects. In the patients and control subjects, the allelic and genotype frequencies were determined for the cytokine genes. All typing were performed with a polymerase chain reaction-sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) assay. Allele and genotype frequencies were calculated and compared with those of normal controls. The results showed that the most frequent genotypes in our patients were transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta TG/TG, interferon (IFN)-gamma AT, interleukin (IL)-4 CC at position -590, TT at position -33, and IL-10 ACC/ACC and ATA/ATA. In contrast, the genotypes TGF-beta CG/CG, IL-2 TT at position -330, IL-4 CT at position -590, CT at position -33, and IL-10 GCC/ACC were seen at much lower frequencies. The results suggest that production of TGF-beta in CML patients is higher and production of IL-4 and IL-10 is lower than in normal subjects.
Dual-color ELISPOT assay for analyzing cytokine balance.	A dual-color enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay enabled us to analyze three kinds of cytokine-secreting cells simultaneously. T helper (Th) cells can be subdivided into at least two distinct functional subsets based on their cytokine secretion profiles. The first type of clones (Th1) produces interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon (IFN)-gamma but not IL-4 or IL-5. The second type of clones (Th2) produces IL-4 and IL-5 but not IL-2 or IFN-gamma. Furthermore, the presence of the third type (Th0) cell, which is a precursor of Th1 or Th2 cells, has been demonstrated to produce both Th1- and Th2-type cytokines. The dual-color ELISPOT assay is developed to differentiate these three subtypes of Th cells in an identical well. In the system, the red spots corresponding to IL-2-secreting cells (Th1) were developed with horseradish peroxidase and amino-ethyl-carbazole/H2O2. The light blue spots corresponding to IL-4-secreting cells (Th2) were developed with alkaline phosphatase and Vector blue (chromogenic substrate for alkaline phosphatase). The mixed colored (indigo) spots corresponding to both kinds of cytokine-secreting cells (Th0 cells) were developed with both chromogenic substrates. With this system, we could detect the IL-2- and/or IL-4-secreting cells simultaneously in a murine spleen cell or human peripheral mononuclear cell preparation.
The expression of cytokines in experimental otitis media with effusion]	To explore the relationship between type I allergic reaction and OME and the expression of Th1, Th2 cytokines in the middle ear mucosa in OME.
Imbalance of Th1/Th2 transcription factors in patients with lupus nephritis.	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is characterized by the aberrant activation of T lymphocytes. Since T-bet and GATA-3 are the principal transcription factors for the differentiation of type-1 and type-2 helper T lymphocytes, respectively, we studied their mRNA expression in the urinary sediment of SLE patients and compared this with their urinary and intra-renal protein expression.
Disruption in Th1/Th2 immune response in young adult smokers.	Interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-10 cytokines, measures of Th1 and Th2 immunity, were examined in 20 healthy nonsmokers (12 males, 8 females) and 19 smokers (11 males, 8 females), aged 19-41 years (23.46+/-0.82 years). Nonsmokers came to the laboratory once; smokers came to the laboratory after ad lib smoking and following 24-h smoking abstinence. Salivary cotinine and expired CO confirmed smoking status. Plasma was collected at the end of each lab session and assayed for peripheral IFN-gamma and IL-10 levels. Among smokers, peripheral IFN-gamma, IL-10, or IFN-gamma/IL-10 ratio levels did not change in response to 24-h smoking abstinence. IFN-gamma levels and IFN-gamma/IL-10 ratios were higher among female smokers while smoking and following 24-h abstinence compared to male smokers in both conditions and compared to male and female nonsmokers. There was no sex or smoking status difference in IL-10 levels. Results suggest that cigarette smoking may have at least short-term damaging effects on the body's normal immune balance, particularly for women.
Epithelial differentiation is a determinant in the production of eotaxin-2 and -3 by bronchial epithelial cells in response to IL-4 and IL-13.	The composition of the airway epithelium is dynamic and epithelial differentiation is regulated by endogenous mediators as well as inhaled substances. In atopic asthma the differentiation of the epithelium is altered. Various studies have addressed the ability of cultured airway epithelial cells to release the eosinophil-attractant chemokines eotaxin, eotaxin-2 and eotaxin-3 using epithelial cell lines or poorly differentiated primary cells. Since little is known about the role of the epithelial differentiation state in the response of epithelial cells to stimuli that increase production of mediators such as the eotaxins, we analyzed the effect of differentiation state on the production of the eotaxins. In particular, we investigated the effects of the Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-13 on eotaxin-2 and -3 production by primary human bronchial epithelial cells and examined whether their production is affected by epithelial cell differentiation using both submerged and air-liquid interface (ALI) cultures. The results show that both IL-4 and IL-13 increase eotaxin-2 and -3 mRNA expression and protein release in submerged- and ALI-cultures. Moreover, epithelial differentiation in ALI-cultures appeared an important determinant in the regulation of eotaxin-2 and -3. Mucociliary differentiation of the epithelial cells was induced by culture in the presence of a high concentration of retinoic acid (RA), whereas low concentrations of RA resulted in a flattened squamous epithelial phenotype. Mucociliary differentiated ALI-cultures expressed and released more eotaxin-3 upon stimulation with IL-4/IL-13, whereas eotaxin-2 production was predominantly found in squamous differentiated ALI-cultures. TNFalpha reduced IL-4-induced eotaxin-2 release in submerged cultures but not in ALI-cultures; no effects on eotaxin-3 synthesis were observed. The results indicate that epithelial differentiation is an important determinant in Th2 cytokine-induced eotaxin-2 and -3 release by airway epithelial cells. These findings may provide new insights into the role of airway epithelial differentiation and Th2 cytokines in the pathogenesis of inflammatory lung disorders such as asthma.
Immunotherapy success in prophylaxis cannot predict therapy: prime-boost vaccination against the 5T4 oncofoetal antigen.	We have investigated the tumour therapeutic efficacy of homologous and heterologous prime-boost vaccine strategies against the 5T4 oncofoetal antigen, using both replication defective adenovirus expressing human 5T4 (Ad5T4), and retrovirally transduced DC lines (DCh5T4) in a subcutaneous B16 melanoma model (B16h5T4). In nave mice we show that all vaccine combinations tested can provide significant tumour growth delay. While DCh5T4/Adh5T4 sequence is the best prophylactic regimen (P > 0.0001), it does not demonstrate any therapeutic efficacy in mice with established tumours. In active therapy the Adh5T4/DCh5T4 vaccination sequence is the best treatment regimen (P = 0.0045). In active therapy, we demonstrate that B16h5T4 tumour growth per se induces Th2 polarising immune responses against 5T4, and the success of subsequent vaccination is dependant on altering the polarizing immune responses from Th2 to Th1. We show that the first immunization with Adh5T4 can condition the mice to induce 5T4 specific Th1 immune responses, which can be sustained and subsequently boosted with DCh5T4. In contrast immunisation with DCh5T4 augments Th2 immune responses, such that a subsequent vaccination with Adh5T4 cannot rescue tumour growth. In this case the depletion of CD25(+) regulatory cells after tumour challenge but before immunization can restore therapeutic efficacy. This study highlights that all vaccine vectors are not equal at generating TAA immune responses; in tumour bearing mice the capability of different vaccines to activate the most appropriate anti-tumour immune responses is greatly altered compared to what is found in nave mice.
Intact T cell responses in ataxia telangiectasia.	Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder associated with a variable immune deficiency. The mechanism for this remains unclear. Qualitative and quantitative defects of cellular immunity have been previously reported. However, despite laboratory evidence of significant immune abnormalities, opportunistic infections are uncommon. To address this discrepancy, we analyzed cytokine production by quantitative real-time PCR and T cell function at the single cell level by flow cytometry in four A-T patients. CD4 and CD8 T cell subsets from these patients displayed intact signaling in response to anti-CD3 stimulation, similar to controls. Stimulated T cells from A-T patients also produced normal to increased levels of Th1 (IL-2, IFN-gamma) and Th2 (IL-10, IL-4) cytokines, relative to control values. Our results suggest that T cells from A-T patients may be more functionally intact than previously observed. This helps to explain the paucity of opportunistic infections encountered, unlike that encountered in other primary immunodeficiencies.
Exogenous IL-12 suppresses experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) by tuning IL-10 and IL-5 levels in an IFN-gamma-dependent way.	Endogenous IL-12 is considered to be required for the generation and function of pathogenic Th1 effector cells in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We show here that IL-12 administration together with the immunization suppressed actively induced CREAE in SJL/J and in Biozzi/ABH mice and even subsequent spontaneous relapse incidence and severity in Biozzi ABH mice. IL-12 given during remission of primary disease inhibited re-induced relapses in SJL/J, but not spontaneous relapses in Biozzi mice. The protective effect of IL-12 is time- and dose-dependent. Protection is accompanied by subsequent increased production of IL-10 and IL-5 by lymph node and spleen cells and an inhibition of cell proliferation. Mice depleted of IFN-gamma by administration of neutralizing antibodies were poorly protected by exogenous IL-12, indicating that the inhibitory effect of IL-12 is partially IFN-gamma dependent.
Release of surface-expressed lactoferrin from polymorphonuclear neutrophils after contact with CD4+ T cells and its modulation on Th1/Th2 cytokine production.	It is conceivable that a membrane component(s) is transferred from antigen-presenting cells to T cells after antigenic stimulation. However, it is not clear whether a certain membrane component(s) is transferred from polymorphonuclear neturophils (PMN) to T cells for immunomodulation. In the presence study, we cocultured two of the three autologous cells-PMN, CD4+ T, and red blood cells (RBC)-homotypically or heterotypically for 1 h. Spontaneous membrane exchange between autologous PMN-PMN and PMN-CD4+ T but not between CD4+ T-CD4+ T or RBC-CD4+ T was observed with a confocal microscope. Loss of membrane exchange between two paraformaldehyde-fixed cells suggests that mutual membrane exchange is via cell-cell contact. Different combinations of cellular enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for measuring the binding between fixed cells and biotinylated cell lysates showed the same tendency. To identify the molecule(s) mediating PMN-CD4+ T binding, we compared the banding of biotinylated PMN lysates and the banding of plain PMN lysate probed by biotinylated CD4+ T lysate in 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. We found that a 75- to 80-kDa surface-expressed molecule on PMN exists constantly to mediate PMN-CD4+ T binding. Peptide analysis disclosed that the molecule had 99.8% identity with lactoferrin (LF). The expression of LF on system lupus erythematosis (SLE)-PMN is less than normal PMN. PMN-CD4+ T coculture increased LF expression on CD4+ T. Normal PMN and human milk-derived LF suppressed interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) but enhanced interleukin (IL)-10 production of anti-CD3+anti-CD28-activated, normal CD4+ T. In contrast, coculture of SLE-PMN and autologous CD4+ T suppressed IFN-gamma and IL-10 production. These results suggest that the surface-expressed LF released from PMN after contact with autologous CD4+ T modulated its T helper cell type 1 (Th1)/Th2 cytokine production. Decreased LF expression on SLE-PMN abnormally modulates Th1/Th2 production by CD4+ T cells.
Post-transplant sCD30 and neopterin as predictors of chronic allograft nephropathy: impact of different immunosuppressive regimens.	Immunological monitoring for chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) is of great potential interest. We assessed serum soluble CD30 (sCD30) together with in vitro Th2-type responses (IL-4, IL-10, CD4 helper activity) and neopterin in a prospective study of 84 renal transplant recipients with 2-year follow-up. Patients were randomized to CsA/Aza, CsA/MMF and Tacr/Aza, respectively, to analyze the effect of immunosuppression on posttransplant sCD30 and neopterin. ATG induction and acute rejections did not alter sCD30 levels whereas CMV disease was associated with transient upregulation of sCD30 (p = 0.003 at 4 months) and sustained upregulation of neopterin (corrected for graft function (Neo/CR) p = 0.005 at 2 years). Tacr versus CsA treatment proved to be an independent variable associated with downregulation of 1-year sCD30, which was positively related to Neo/CR (p = 0.007 and 0.01, respectively; logistic regression). Importantly, increased 1-year sCD30 and Neo/CR were associated with decreased glomerular filtration rate at 2 years (p = 0.02 and p < 0.0005, respectively) and evidence of CAN (p < 0.0005). High 1-year sCD30 could not be attributed to enhanced Th2-type responses and was not associated with HLA antibody formation. Our data suggest that elevated sCD30 and neopterin predict graft deterioration by CAN. Tacr effectively downregulates these responses and might be of advantage in patients with elevated sCD30 or neopterin.
Tsetse fly saliva biases the immune response to Th2 and induces anti-vector antibodies that are a useful tool for exposure assessment.	Tsetse flies (Glossina sp.) are blood-feeding dipteran insects that transmit African trypanosomes, parasites that are responsible for human sleeping sickness and veterinary infections. Increasing attention is being paid to the effects of tsetse fly saliva deposited at the feeding site, which enables the blood-feeding process and putatively promotes parasite transmission. Here we demonstrate that saliva induces strong humoral responses against the major 43-45 kDa protein fraction (tsetse salivary gland proteins 1 and 2 - Tsal1 and Tsal2) in mice and humans and suppresses murine T and B cell responses to heterologous antigen. The saliva-induced immune response is associated with a Th2-biased cytokine profile and the production of mainly IgG1 and IgE antibody isotypes. Functionally, the antibodies raised in mice exposed to tsetse fly bites or induced after experimental saliva immunisation do not affect the fly's blood-feeding efficiency nor its survival. We propose that anti-saliva as well as anti-Tsal1/2 antibody responses can be used in epidemiological studies as a tool to analyze human exposure to tsetse flies.
Increased expression of Th2-associated chemokines in bullous pemphigoid disease. Role of eosinophils in the production and release of these chemokines.	Bullous pemphigoid is an inflammatory disease of the skin associated with eosinophil infiltration and the presence of high levels of Th2 cytokines in the associated blister fluid. Little is known about the contribution of chemokines in this disease. We found that eotaxin and MCP-4 mRNA and immunoreactivity were expressed in all biopsies of BP patients and were mainly localized to the epidermis and eosinophils. The expression of eotaxin and MCP-4 was enhanced in eosinophils following IL-5 treatment. Subsequent stimulation of IL-5-primed eosinophils with Ig-immune complexes, results in increase secretion of eotaxin and MCP-4 in the supernatants. Using immunostaining, these two chemokines were localized to the granules of eosinophils. BF was found to contain chemotactic activity for eosinophils, neutrophils and T cells. The chemotactic effect of BF for eosinophils was more effective when eosinophils were stimulated with IL-5 or IL-4. We also found that the levels of Th(2)-associated chemokines (eotaxin and MCP-4) in BF were significantly higher than the Th(1)-associated chemokines (MIP-1beta and IP-10). This was consistent with the increased chemotaxis of polarized Th(2) cells toward BF, when compared to Th(1)-differentiated T cells. Our results support the involvement of Th(2)-associated chemokines in the pathogenesis of BP disease.
The role of Th2 cytokines, chemokines and parasite products in eosinophil recruitment to the gastrointestinal mucosa during helminth infection.	Trichinella spiralis and Trichuris muris are nematode parasites of the mouse, dwelling in the small and large intestines, respectively: worm expulsion requires development of a Th2 immune response. The chemokine CCL11 is agonist for the chemokine receptor CCR3 and acts in synergy with IL-5 to recruit eosinophils to inflammatory sites. The role of CCL11 in gastrointestinal helminth infection has not been previously studied. We challenged wild-type (WT) BALB/c, CCL11 single knockout (SKO) and CCL11 IL-5 double knockout (DKO) mice with either T. spiralis muscle larvae or T. muris eggs in order to examine eosinophil recruitment to the small and large intestine during helminth infection. A peripheral eosinophilia was seen in WT and SKO mice during T. spiralis infection but not with T. muris. Gastrointestinal eosinophilia was markedly reduced but not ablated in SKO mice -- and negligible in DKO mice -- infected with either nematode. The residual eosinophilia and up-regulation of CCL24 mRNA in the gastrointestinal tract of SKO mice infected with either nematode, together with the presence of an eosinophil-active factor in T. spiralis and T. muris products, suggest that CCL11 is the salient but not the sole eosinophil chemoattractant of biological significance during gastrointestinal helminth infection.
Sympathetic nervous system plays an important role in the relationship between immune mediated diseases.	T helper (Th) lymphocytes have been classified into distinct subsets, Th1 and Th2 on the basis of the cytokines they produce. According to the cross-regulatory properties of Th1 and Th2 cells, one would assume that to be affected by a Th1 type disease increases susceptibility to a Th1 type disease and inhibits a Th2 type disease and vice versa about being affected by a Th2 type disease. However, the pattern of related diseases does not necessarily follow the conventional pattern of inhibitory effects of Th1 and Th2 immune responses on each other. For example, Mycobacteria including BCG, that induce Th1 immune responses; can modulate some Th1 type autoimmune diseases including MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE; an animal model for Multiple Sclerosis) and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) thereby leading to an alleviation of their symptoms. Also BCG precipitates a syndrome similar to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a Th2 type disease; in NOD mice. The coexistence of the major Th2-mediated atopic diseases such as asthma, eczema and allergic rhinitis with the Th1-mediated autoimmune conditions including; coeliac disease (CD), IDDM, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and psoriasis is another example that is in apparent disagreement with counter-regulatory effects of Th1/Th2 phenotypes.
Inhibition of T cell homing by down-regulation of CD62L and the induction of a Th-2 response as a method to prevent acute allograft rejection in mice.	For a successful immune response, migration of lymphocytes to lymphoid organs and other tissues is a key step, as the initial recognition of foreign antigens and activation of lymphocytes takes place in these organs. CD62L is a homing receptor that mediates entry of nave T cells to peripheral lymph nodes. Maybe the preventing of T cell homing will change the immune response against allogeneic tissue and suppress rejection.
C3d enhanced DNA vaccination induced humoral immune response to glycoprotein C of pseudorabies virus.	Murine C3d were utilized to enhance immunogenicity of pseudorabies virus (PrV) gC DNA vaccination. Three copies of C3d and four copies of CR2-binding domain M28(4) were fused, respectively, to truncated gC gene encoding soluble glycoprotein C (sgC) in pcDNA3.1. BALB/c mice were, respectively, immunized with recombinant plasmids, blank vector, and inactivated vaccine. The antibody ELISA titer for sgC-C3d3 DNA was 49-fold more than that for sgC DNA, and the neutralizing antibody obtained 8-fold rise. Protection of mice from death after lethal PrV (316 LD50) challenge was augmented from 25% to 100%. Furthermore, C3d fusion increased Th2-biased immune response by inducing IL-4 production. The IL-4 level for sgC-C3d3 DNA immunization approached that for the inactivated vaccine. Compared to C3d, M28 enhanced sgC DNA immunogenicity to a lesser extent. In conclusion, we demonstrated that murine C3d fusion significantly enhanced gC DNA immunity by directing Th1-biased to a balanced and more effective Th1/Th2 response.
Systemic and cerebrospinal fluid T-helper cytokine responses in organ transplant recipients with Cryptococcus neoformans infection.	The role of Th1 and Th2 mediated cytokine responses in the pathogenesis of Cryptococcus neoformans infection in organ transplant recipients has not been defined.
Increased levels of IgE and autoreactive, polyreactive IgG in wild rodents: implications for the hygiene hypothesis.	To probe the potential role of Th1 versus Th2 reactivity underlying the hygiene hypothesis, intrinsic levels of Th1-associated and Th2-associated antibodies in the serum of wild rodents were compared with that in various strains of laboratory rodents. Studies using rat lung antigens as a target indicated that wild rats have substantially greater levels of autoreactive, polyreactive immunoglobulin G (IgG), but not autoreactive, polyreactive IgM than do laboratory rats, both on a quantitative and qualitative basis. Increased levels of serum IgG and IgE were observed in both wild rats and wild mice relative to their laboratory-raised counterparts, with the effect being most pronounced for IgE levels. Further, wild rats had greater intrinsic levels of both Th1- and Th2-associated IgG subclasses than did lab rats. The habitat (wild versus laboratory raised) had a more substantial impact on immunoglobulin concentration than did age, strain or gender in the animals studied. The presence in wild rodents of increased intrinsic, presumably protective, non-pathogenic responses similar to both autoimmune (autoreactive IgG, Th1-associated) and allergic (IgE, Th2-associated) reactions as well as increased levels of Th1-associated and Th2-associated IgG subclasses points toward a generally increased stimulation of the immune system in these animals rather than a shift in the nature of the immunoreactivity. It is concluded that, at least to the extent that feedback inhibition is a controlling element of immunoreactivity, an overly hygienic environment may affect the threshold of both types of immune responses more so than the balance between the different responses.
Mice lacking uteroglobin are highly susceptible to developing pulmonary fibrosis.	Uteroglobin (UG) is an anti-inflammatory protein secreted by the airway epithelia of all mammals. UG-knockout (UG-KO) mice sporadically develop focal pulmonary fibrosis (PF), a group of complex interstitial disorders of the lung that has high mortality and morbidity; however, the molecular mechanism(s) remains unclear. We report here that UG-KO mice are extraordinarily sensitive to bleomycin, an anti-cancer agent known to induce PF and readily develop PF when treated with an extremely low dose of bleomycin that has virtually no effect on the wild type littermates. We further demonstrate that UG prevents PF suppressing bleomycin-induced production of pro-inflammatory T-helper 2 cytokines and TGF-beta, which are also pro-fibrotic. Our results define a critical role of UG in preventing the development of PF and provide the proof of principle that recombinant UG may have therapeutic potential.
Antiasthmatic activity and selective inhibition of type 2 helper T cell response by aqueous extract of semen armeniacae amarum.	Semen armeniacae amarum (SAA) has long been used to control asthma in Korean traditional medicine. However, its antiasthmatic action still remains poorly understood. In the current study, effective mechanism of SAA was investigated in a mouse model of allergic asthma induced by repeated sensitization and intranasal challenge with OVA. Airway hyperreactivity (AHR) measured by beta-methacholine-induced airflow obstruction and airway recruitment of leukocytes including eosinophils were significantly reduced by oral treatment of SAA water extract. Level of interleukin (IL)-4, but not Interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) also appeared considerably lower in SAA-treated mice than in controls. Collectively, these data show that SAA suppresses type 2 helper T cell (Th2), but not type 1 helper T cell (Th1), response. This hypothesis was supported further by the data of ex vivo cytokine production of peribronchial lymph node cells. Thus, oral administration of SAA attenuates asthmatic manifestations including AHR and airway inflammation, which possibly result from selective inhibition of Th2 response to allergen. Our data strongly suggest that SAA may be effectively applied to control other Th2-related diseases as well as allergic asthma.
Role of CCL5 (RANTES) in viral lung disease.	CCL5/RANTES is a key proinflammatory chemokine produced by virus-infected epithelial cells and present in respiratory secretions of asthmatics. To examine the role of CCL5 in viral lung disease, we measured its production during primary respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection and during secondary infection after sensitizing vaccination that induces Th2-mediated eosinophilia. A first peak of CCL5 mRNA and protein production was seen at 18 to 24 h of RSV infection, before significant lymphocyte recruitment occurred. Treatment in vivo with Met-RANTES (a competitive chemokine receptor blocker) throughout primary infection decreased CD4+ and CD8+ cell recruitment and increased viral replication. In RSV-infected, sensitized mice with eosinophilic disease, CCL5 production was further augmented; Met-RANTES treatment again reduced inflammatory cell recruitment and local cytokine production. A second wave of CCL5 production occurred on day 7, attributable to newly recruited T cells. Paradoxically, mice treated with Met-RANTES during primary infection demonstrated increased cellular infiltration during reinfection. We therefore show that RSV induces CCL5 production in the lung and this causes the recruitment of RSV-specific cells, including those making additional CCL5. If this action is blocked with Met-RANTES, inflammation decreases and viral clearance is delayed. However, the exact effects of chemokine modulation depend critically on time of administration, a factor that may potentially complicate the use of chemokine blockers in inflammatory diseases.
Mycobacterium bovis BCG mycobacteria--new application.	The polarized response of T helper-2 (Th2) lymphocytes to an allergen is considered to be the main cause of the pathogenesis of asthma. In this study, we asked a question whether M. bovis BCG mycobacteria which are known for the preferential stimulation of T helper-1 (Th1) immunity, diminish the effector functions of Th2 cells from allergic patients upon stimulation with a common house dust mite Der p-1 allergen. Our results allow a positive answer to this question. We demonstrate that BCG modulates the dendritic cell-dependent allergen presentation process and switches naive T lymphocytes towards an anti-allergic Th1 profile.
Interleukin-10 and Th2 cytokines differentially regulate osteopontin expression in human monocytes and dendritic cells.	Osteopontin (OPN) is a pleiotrophic phosphoprotein involved in homeostatic and pathophysiologic responses. It is known to be a chemotactic cytokine for dendritic cells (DCs), a critical cell type in both innate and adaptive immune responses. We report herein a contrasting role of interleukin-10 (IL-10) and Th2 cytokines in the regulation of OPN expression in human monocytes and monocyte-derived DCs (Mo-DCs). Our results showed first that the expression of OPN in monocytes and Mo-DCs was induced in a time-dependent and dose-dependent manner by IL-10 but was inhibited by IL-4 or IL-13. Further, the basal level of OPN expression was also inhibited by IL-4. This inhibitory effect of IL-4 was associated with a faster decay of OPN transcripts and a decreased proximal promoter activity of OPN in IL-4-treated cells. These results demonstrate a novel role of IL-10 and Th2 cytokines in the regulation of DC function through their contrasting regulatory activities on the expression of OPN.
Type 2 cytotoxic T lymphocytes modulate the activity of dendritic cells toward type 2 immune responses.	Activated CD8+ T cells can differentiate into type 1 (Tc1) cells, producing mainly IFN-gamma, and type 2 (Tc2) cells, producing mostly IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. Tc1 cells are potent CTL involved in the defense against intracellular pathogens and cancer cells. The role of Tc2 cells in the immune response is largely unknown, although their presence in chronic infections, cancer, and autoimmune diseases is associated with disease severity and progression. Here, we show that mouse Tc2 cells modify, through a cell-to-cell contact mechanism, the function of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DC). Indeed, Tc2-conditioned DC displayed a reduced expression of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules, produced IL-10 instead of IL-12, and favored the differentiation of both naive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells toward type 2 cells in the absence of added polarizing cytokines. The novel function for Tc2 cells suggests a type 2 loop in which Tc2 cells modify DC function and favor differentiation of naive T cells to type 2 cells. The type 2 loop may at least in part explain the unexpected high frequency of type 2 cells during a chronic exposure to the Ag.
The Th2 lymphoproliferation developing in LatY136F mutant mice triggers polyclonal B cell activation and systemic autoimmunity.	Lat(Y136F) knock-in mice harbor a point mutation in Tyr(136) of the linker for activation of T cells and show accumulation of Th2 effector cells and IgG1 and IgE hypergammaglobulinemia. B cell activation is not a direct effect of the mutation on B cells since in the absence of T cells, mutant B cells do not show an activated phenotype. After adoptive transfer of linker for activation of T cell mutant T cells into wild-type, T cell-deficient recipients, recipient B cells become activated. We show in vivo and in vitro that the Lat(Y136F) mutation promotes T cell-dependent B cell activation leading to germinal center, memory, and plasma cell formation even in an MHC class II-independent manner. All the plasma and memory B cell populations found in physiological T cell-dependent B cell responses are found. Characterization of the abundant plasmablasts found in secondary lymphoid organs of Lat(Y136F) mice revealed the presence of a previously uncharacterized CD93-expressing subpopulation, whose presence was confirmed in wild-type mice after immunization. In Lat(Y136F) mice, B cell activation was polyclonal and not Ag-driven because the increase in serum IgG1 and IgE concentrations involved Abs and autoantibodies with different specificities equally. Although the noncomplement-fixing IgG1 and IgE are the only isotypes significantly increased in Lat(Y136F) serum, we observed early-onset systemic autoimmunity with nephritis showing IgE autoantibody deposits and severe proteinuria. These results show that Th2 cells developing in Lat(Y136F) mice can trigger polyclonal B cell activation and thereby lead to systemic autoimmune disease.
B7RP-1-ICOS interactions are required for optimal infection-induced expansion of CD4+ Th1 and Th2 responses.	Although initial reports linked the costimulatory molecule ICOS preferentially with the development of Th2 cells, there is evidence that it is not required for protective type 2 immunity to helminths and that it contributes to Th1 and Th2 responses to other parasites. To address the role of ICOS in the development of infection-induced polarized Th cells, ICOS(-/-) mice were infected with Trichuris muris or Toxoplasma gondii. Wild-type mice challenged with T. muris developed Th2 responses and expelled these helminths by day 18 postinfection, whereas ICOS(-/-) mice failed to clear worms and produced reduced levels of type 2 cytokines. However, by day 35 postinfection, ICOS(-/-) mice were able to mount an effective Th2 response and worms were expelled. This delay in protective immunity was associated with a defect in infection-induced increases in the number of activated and proliferating CD4+ T cells. Similarly, following challenge with T. gondii ICOS was required for optimal proliferation by CD4+ T cells. However, the reduced number of activated CD4+ T cells and associated defect in the production of IFN-gamma did not result in increased susceptibility to T. gondii, but rather resulted in decreased CNS pathology during the chronic phase of this infection. Taken together, these data are consistent with a model in which ICOS is not involved in dictating polarity of the Th response but rather regulates the expansion of these subsets.
Challenge with environmental tobacco smoke exacerbates allergic airway disease in human beings.	Despite widespread perceptions that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is a potent risk factor for allergic airway disease, epidemiologic studies studying this have been equivocal. There is a clear need for experimental studies to address these questions.
Redirection of allergen-specific TH2 responses by a modified adenine through Toll-like receptor 7 interaction and IL-12/IFN release.	Natural or synthetic ligands of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), such as CpG-containing oligodeoxynucleotides and imidazoquinolines, affect the functional phenotype of antigen-specific human T lymphocytes by inducing cytokine release by cells of the innate immunity.
Optimisation and parallelisation strategies for Monte Carlo simulation of HIV infection.	In recent years, the study of immune response behaviour through mathematical and computational models has attracted considerable efforts. The dynamics of key cell types, and their interactions, has been a primary focus in terms of building a picture of how the immune system responds to a threat. Discrete methods, based on lattice Monte-Carlo (MC) models, with their flexibility and relative simplicity have previously been used to model the immune system behaviour. However, due to speed and memory constraints, large-scale simulations cannot be done on a single computer. Key issues in the reduction of simulation time are code optimisation and code parallelisation. In this paper, optimisation and parallelisation solutions are discussed, with reference to existing MC simulation code for dynamics of HIV infection.
Toxocara canis: effect of inoculum size on pulmonary pathology and cytokine expression in BALB/c mice.	Infection of mice with Toxocara canis results in pulmonary inflammation and the induction of a Th2 type of immune response. The aim of this study was to determine whether the effect of infection with this nematode depends on the inoculum size. Results indicate that mice infected with either a high or a low inoculum size showed, in a dose-dependent manner, pulmonary inflammation with eosinophil infiltration, increased levels of total IgE, and Toxocara-specific IgG1 that persisted up to 60 days p.i. Relative quantification of cytokine expression in lungs of mice infected with different doses showed proportional increased expression of the IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 transcripts, whereas the expression of the IFN-gamma transcript was not different from that of uninfected controls. These results indicate that infection of BALB/c mice with T. canis results in chronic pulmonary inflammation and a dominant Th2 type of immune response, independent of the inoculum size.
Ginsenoside Rd elicits Th1 and Th2 immune responses to ovalbumin in mice.	Ginsenoside Rd (Rd), a saponin isolated from the roots of panax notoginseng, was evaluated for inducing Th1 or Th2 immune responses in mice against ovalbumin (OVA). ICR mice were immunized subcutaneously with OVA 100 microg alone or with OVA 100 microg dissolved in saline containing alum (200 microg), or Rd (10, 25 or 50 microg) on days 1 and 15. Two weeks later (day 28), concanavalin A (Con A)-, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- and OVA-stimulated splenocyte proliferation was determined using MTT assay, and OVA-specific antibody titers and levels of cytokines in serum were measured by ELISA and microparticle-based flow cytometric immunoassay, as well as peripheral blood T-lymphocyte subsets analyzed using flow cytometer. Rd significantly enhanced the Con A-, LPS-, and OVA-induced splenocyte proliferation in the OVA-immunized mice. OVA-specific IgG, IgG1, and IgG2b antibody titers in serum were significantly enhanced by Rd compared with OVA control group. Meanwhile, Rd also significantly promoted the production of the Th1 and Th2 cytokines in OVA-immunized mice. Further, the effects of Rd on expression of cytokine mRNA in Con A-stimulated mice splenocytes were evaluated by RT-PCR analysis. Rd significantly enhanced the interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4, and IL-10 mRNA expression in mice splenocyte induced by Con A. These results suggested that Rd had immunological adjuvant activity, and elicited a Th1 and Th2 immune response by regulating production and gene expression of Th1 cytokines and Th2 cytokines.
Inhibition of autoimmune type 1 diabetes by gastrointestinal helminth infection.	Gastrointestinal nematode infections are prevalent worldwide and are potent inducers of T helper 2 responses with the capacity to modulate the immune response to heterologous antigens. Parasitic helminth infection has even been shown to modulate the immune response associated with autoimmune diseases. Nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice provide a model for studying human autoimmune diabetes; as in humans, the development of diabetes in NOD mice has been linked to the loss of self-tolerance to beta cell autoantigens. Previous studies with the NOD mouse have shown that helminth and bacterial infection appears to inhibit type 1 diabetes by disrupting the pathways leading to the Th1-mediated destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. The aim of our study was to examine whether infection with the gastrointestinal helminths Trichinella spiralis or Heligmosomoides polygyrus could inhibit the development of autoimmune diabetes in NOD mice and to analyze the mechanisms involved in protection and the role of Th2 responses. Protection from diabetes was afforded by helminth infection, appeared to inhibit autoimmune diabetes by disrupting pathways leading to the destruction of beta cells, and was mediated by seemingly independent mechanisms depending on the parasite but which may be to be related to the capacity of the host to mount a Th2 response.
Leishmania infantum: mixed T-helper-1/T-helper-2 immune response in experimentally infected BALB/c mice.	The main goal of the present study was to characterise the course of infection and immunological responses developed by Leishmania infantum infected BALB/c mice. Parasite load was determined by Real-time TaqMan PCR while cytokine and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) production were assessed by ELISA. Leishmania DNA was detected in spleen and liver as soon as day 1 post-inoculation (pi) and the parasitism was sustained until the end of the experiment. The cytokine kinetics in spleen and liver was generally associated with the oscillations of parasite load. Overall, it was not observed a distinct Th1 or Th2 pattern of cytokine production during the time of experiment. The infected mice developed a mixed immune response, with concomitant production of IFN-gamma, IL-4 and IL-10, both in spleen and liver, and both IgG isotypes. However, our results suggest that, compared to liver, the spleen is more susceptible to L. infantum infection.
Modulation of the infant immune responses by the first pertussis vaccine administrations.	Many efforts are currently made to prepare combined vaccines against most infectious pathogens, that may be administered early in life to protect infants against infectious diseases as early as possible. However, little is known about the general immune modulation induced by early vaccination. Here, we have analyzed the cytokine secretion profiles of two groups of 6-month-old infants having received as primary immunization either a whole-cell (Pw) or an acellular (Pa) pertussis vaccine in a tetravalent formulation of pertussis-tetanus-diphtheria-poliomyelitis vaccines. Both groups of infants secreted IFN-gamma in response to the Bordetella pertussis antigens filamentous haemagglutinin and pertussis toxin, and this response was correlated with antigen-specific IL-12p70 secretion, indicating that both pertussis vaccines induced Th1 cytokines. However, Pa recipients also developed a strong Th2-type cytokine response to the B. pertussis antigens, as noted previously. In addition, they induced Th2-type cytokines to the co-administrated antigen tetanus toxod, as well as to the food antigen beta-lactoglobulin. Furthermore, the general cytokine profile of the Pa recipients was strongly Th2-skewed at 6 months, as indicated by the cytokines induced by the mitogen phytohaemagglutinin. These data demonstrate that the cytokine profile of 6-month-old infants is influenced by the type of formulation of the pertussis vaccine they received at 2, 3 and 4 months of life. Large prospective studies would be warranted to evaluate the possible long-term consequences of this early modulation of the cytokine responses in infants.
Role of cytokines in allergic airway inflammation.	Asthma is characterized by intense infiltration of eosinophils and CD4+ T cells into the submucosal tissue of airways. Accumulating evidence indicates that T helper type 2 cell-derived cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5 and IL-13 play critical roles in orchestrating and amplifying allergic inflammation in asthma. In addition, it has been suggested that newly identified cytokines including thymic stromal lymphopoietin, IL-25 and IL-33 are involved in the induction of allergic inflammation in asthma. In this review, we discuss the role of individual cytokines in the pathogenesis of asthma.
Mixed cytokine profile during active cutaneous leishmaniasis and in natural resistance.	Most studies on immune response in human cutaneous leishmaniasis evaluate patients with active disease in comparison with healthy uninfected controls or patients that have had the lesions healed, however, little is known about the immune response associated with natural resistance. In this paper we evaluate the cytokine expression patterns of T-cells and the plasmatic levels of nitrite and nitrate in patients with localized cutaneous leishmaniasis (LCL) as well as endemic non-infected individuals with positive (MST) and negative (NI) Montenegro skin test, without previous history of leishmanial lesions. Our results demonstrated an increased number of IFN-gamma+ and TNF-alpha+ T-cells and high level of plasma nitrite and nitrate in LCL patients. Moreover, we have observed that early in infection (LCL equal/less than 60 days of lesion evolution), Leishmania patients present predominance in IL-4+ and IL-10+ T-lymphocytes. However, this is a transitory phenomenon, since patients with older lesions (LCL more than 60 days of lesion evolution) show a predominant Type-1 immune profile, suggesting that disease development may depend on a transient deregulation of T-cell response, during the initial phase of infection. Interestingly MST displayed a basal mixed Type-0 cytokines profile. However, the low frequency of IL-4+ T-cells, high IFN-gamma+/IL-10+ cell ratio as well as elevated nitrite and nitrate plasma levels observed in MST, suggested that despite basal levels of cytokines, a high proportion of Type-1 over Type-2 cytokines would count to prevent parasite growth and lesion development.
Asthma: new developments concerning immune mechanisms, diagnosis and treatment.	This brief review discusses how recent research may modify our understanding of the immunology of asthma. Consideration is given to the possible impact that these observations may have upon diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
The biology of NKT cells.	Recognized more than a decade ago, NKT cells differentiate from mainstream thymic precursors through instructive signals emanating during TCR engagement by CD1d-expressing cortical thymocytes. Their semi-invariant alphabeta TCRs recognize isoglobotrihexosylceramide, a mammalian glycosphingolipid, as well as microbial alpha-glycuronylceramides found in the cell wall of Gram-negative, lipopolysaccharide-negative bacteria. This dual recognition of self and microbial ligands underlies innate-like antimicrobial functions mediated by CD40L induction and massive Th1 and Th2 cytokine and chemokine release. Through reciprocal activation of NKT cells and dendritic cells, synthetic NKT ligands constitute promising new vaccine adjuvants. NKT cells also regulate a range of immunopathological conditions, but the mechanisms and the ligands involved remain unknown. NKT cell biology has emerged as a new field of research at the frontier between innate and adaptive immunity, providing a powerful model to study fundamental aspects of the cell and structural biology of glycolipid trafficking, processing, and recognition.
The importance of dietary control in the development of a peanut allergy model in Brown Norway rats.	This report describes the further development of a peanut allergy model in Brown Norway (BN) rats and in particular the importance of allergen-free breeding of the laboratory animals for the allergen to be used. For this purpose BN rats were bred for 3 generations on soy- and peanut-free feed since it is known that the legumes peanut and soy are cross-reactive. In addition, the effect of cholera toxin (CT), an oral adjuvant often used to increase the sensitivity of food allergy models, was investigated in the BN rat model. BN rats that were bred on both soy- and peanut-free feed could be sensitized orally to peanut (all exposed rats developed peanut-specific IgE, IgG2a and IgG1) and the adjuvant CT could only enhance this sensitization to a limited extent. We also found different protein recognition patterns against purified peanut allergens (Ara h1, Ara h2 and Ara h3) between intraperitoneally (i.p.) and orally sensitized BN rats. Orally sensitized rats recognized all tested allergens whereas i.p. sensitized rats only recognized Ara h1 and Ara h2. Our conclusion is that a model for food allergy should preferably be (A) oral and (B) if possible without the use of adjuvantia. Our model in BN rats unites these preferred characteristics. In addition, we show the importance of dietary control when conducting oral sensitization studies. Special attention must be paid to unscheduled dietary pre-exposure of the animals to the protein under investigation to obtain optimal oral sensitization.
D-pinitol regulates Th1/Th2 balance via suppressing Th2 immune response in ovalbumin-induced asthma.	D-pinitol has been demonstrated to exert insulin-like and anti-inflammatory activities. However, its anti-allergic effect in the Th1/Th2 immune response is poorly understood. Recently, it was shown that T-bet and GATA-3 are master Th1 and Th2 regulatory transcription factors. In this study, we have attempted to determine whether D-pinitol regulates Th1/Th2 cytokine production, T-bet and GATA-3 gene expression in OVA-induced asthma model mice. We also examined to ascertain whether D-pinitol could influence eosinophil peroxidase (EPO) activity. After being sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin (OVA) showed typical asthmatic reactions. These reactions included an increase in the number of eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, an increase in inflammatory cell infiltration into the lung tissue around blood vessels and airways, airway luminal narrowing, and the development of airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR). The administration of D-pinitol before the last airway OVA challenge resulted in a significant inhibition of all asthmatic reactions. Accordingly, this study may provide evidence that D-pinitol plays a critical role in the amelioration of the pathogenetic process of asthma in mice. These findings provide new insight into the immunopharmacological role of D-pinitol in terms of its effects in a murine model of asthma, and also broaden current perspectives in our understanding of the immunopharmacological functions of D-pinitol.
Friendly and dangerous signals: is the tissue in control?	In their own defense, tissues send a panoply of signals that initiate immunity and guide the choice of effector class. T(H)1-T(H)2 and T(reg) is far too simple a representation of the breathtaking variety of the resulting responses.
IFN-gamma negatively regulates CpG-induced IL-10 in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are important players in the regulation of Th1- and Th2-dominated immune responses. In these studies we showed that IFN-gamma, the key mediator of Th1 immunity, actively suppressed the production of IL-10 in murine DCs when activated with LPS or CpG. Our analysis revealed that both LPS and CpG induced IL-10 and IL-12 production but that the presence of IFN-gamma, in a dose-dependent manner, suppressed the production of IL-10 while enhancing that of IL-12. The observed inhibition of IL-10 production was independent of IL-12. Experiments performed with STAT-1 knockout mice demonstrated that the primary production of IL-12 induced by CpG was STAT-1 dependent, whereas the production of IL-10 was not. This finding was confirmed by the observation that CpG-induced IL-12 production could be inhibited by anti-IFN-beta Abs, whereas CpG-induced IL-10 production could not be inhibited. These data also demonstrated that the inhibitory effect of IFN-gamma on IL-10 expression was STAT-1 dependent and transcriptionally regulated. Thus, DCs respond to CpG by producing proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-12 and IL-10, respectively, and IFN-gamma acts to not only enhance IL-12 but also to inhibit IL-10 production. The current data demonstrate a novel pathway for IFN-gamma-mediated immunoregulation and suggest that IFN-gamma-dependent suppression of IL-10 production by DCs may be involved in the antagonism between Th1 and Th2 patterns of immune reactivity.
Comparative roles of IL-4, IL-13, and IL-4Ralpha in dendritic cell maturation and CD4+ Th2 cell function.	IL-4 and IL-13 play key roles in Th2 immunity and asthma pathogenesis. Although the function of these cytokines is partially linked through their shared use of IL-4Ralpha for signaling, the interplay between these cytokines in the development of memory Th2 responses is not well delineated. In this investigation, we show that both IL-4 and IL-13 influence the maturation of dendritic cells (DC) in the lung and their ability to regulate secretion of IFN-gamma and Th2 cytokines by memory CD4(+) T cells. Cocultures of wild-type T cells with pulmonary DC from allergic, cytokine-deficient mice demonstrated that IL-4 enhanced the capacity of DC to stimulate T cell secretion of Th2 cytokines, whereas IL-13 enhanced the capacity of DC to suppress T cell secretion of IFN-gamma. Because IL-4Ralpha is critical for IL-4 and IL-13 signaling, we also determined how variants of IL-4Ralpha influenced immune cell function. T cells derived from allergic mice expressing a high-affinity IL-4Ralpha variant produced higher levels of IL-5 and IL-13 compared with T cells derived from allergic mice expressing a low-affinity IL-4Ralpha variant. Although DC expressing different IL-4Ralpha variants did not differ in their capacity to influence Th2 cytokine production, they varied in their capacity to inhibit IFN-gamma production by T cells. Thus, IL-4 and IL-13 differentially regulate DC function and the way these cells regulate T cells. The affinity of IL-4Ralpha also appears to be a determinant in the balance between Th2 and IFN-gamma responses and thus the severity of allergic disease.
Antenatal risk factors, cytokines and the development of atopic disease in early childhood.	Atopic diseases are complex entities influenced by an array of risk factors, including genetic predisposition, environmental allergens, antenatal exposures, infections and psychosocial factors. One proposed mechanism by which these risk factors contribute to the development of atopic disease is through changes in the production of T helper cell type 1 (Th1) and T helper cell type 2 (Th2) cytokines. The objectives of this review are to discuss antenatal exposures that are associated with paediatric atopic diseases, to discuss the influence of the intrauterine environment on neonatal immune responses, to provide an overview of the Th1 and Th2 pathways and how they relate to atopic disease, and to summarise our current understanding of the association between cytokine responses in cord blood and the development of atopic disease in early childhood.
Expulsion of the gastrointestinal cestode, Hymenolepis diminuta by tolerant rats: evidence for mediation by a Th2 type immune enhanced goblet cell hyperplasia, increased mucin production and secretion.	The processes underlying expulsion of Hymenolepis diminuta in rats are not known. Expression levels of mRNAs of several cytokines revealed a Th2 response that differed between worm infection levels. IL-4 protein levels decreased while IL-13 levels increased in a 50-worm infection by 30 dpi; the converse was seen with a five-worm infection. A negative correlation was found between IL-4 or IL-13 mRNA expression and worm biomass, between IL-13 protein levels and worm number or worm biomass, and between IL-4 protein levels and worm biomass in 50-worm infections. A negative correlation between IL-4 mRNA or protein expression and worm biomass was observed with five-worm infections. A strong correlation between Muc2 mRNA expression and decreased worm number or biomass in a 50-worm infection was observed. Muc2 protein, goblet cell numbers and mucin decreased in a 50-worm infection by 20 days post-infection. These changes were not seen with five-worm infections where worms are not expelled. The data show that rats infected with 50 H. diminuta mount a Th2 response leading to high levels of IL-13, increased goblet cell numbers and increased mucin2 production and release. The mucus traps the worms, which are progressively expelled from the small intestine.
Th2 cytokines are associated with persistent hepatic fibrosis in human Schistosoma japonicum infection.	We conducted a prospective cohort study in Leyte, the Philippines, among 611 Schistosoma japonicum-infected participants 7-30 years old, all of whom were treated with praziquantel at baseline. To detect hepatic fibrosis, abdominal ultrasound was performed at baseline and 12 months after treatment. Stool for assessment of S. japonicum infection was collected at baseline and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after treatment. Cytokines (interleukin [IL]-4, IL-5, IL-10, IL-13, tumor necrosis factor- alpha , and interferon- gamma ) produced by peripheral-blood mononuclear cells in response to soluble worm antigen preparation (SWAP), soluble egg antigen (SEA), and control medium were measured once 4 weeks after treatment. IL-4 to SWAP and IL-10 to both SWAP and SEA were associated with the presence of baseline fibrosis after adjustment for potential confounding variables (P<.03, for all). In participants with fibrosis at baseline, IL-4 to SWAP and IL-5 and IL-13 to both SWAP and SEA were associated with persistent fibrosis at 12 months after treatment (P<.05, for all). Males showed consistently stronger T helper 2 (Th2) cytokine responses to both SWAP and SEA than did females (P<.02, for all). These results suggest an independent role for Th2-biased cytokine responses to S. japonicum antigens in persistent hepatic fibrosis and indicate that Th2 cytokines may contribute to the male-biased prevalence of fibrosis.
The stability of mRNA encoding IL-4 is increased in pulmonary tuberculosis, while stability of mRNA encoding the antagonistic splice variant, IL-4delta2, is not.	The prototype Th2 cytokine IL-4, and its competitive antagonist IL-4delta2, may be important determinants of outcome in human tuberculosis (TB). However, there are no data on how gene expression of these cytokines is regulated. To evaluate this the stability of IL-4 and IL-4delta2 mRNA after the addition of actinomycin-D, was evaluated in whole blood from subjects with pulmonary TB and uninfected healthy volunteers. The Th2/Th1 (IL-4/IFN-gamma) mRNA ratio in unstimulated cells in whole blood was significantly greater in TB subjects than in controls (p<0.05). The mRNA half-life of the agonist (IL-4), but not the antagonist (IL-4delta2), was significantly prolonged in subjects with TB compared to healthy volunteers ( approximately 5-fold, p=0.0016), and the IL-4/IL-4delta2 ratio was higher in TB patients compared to controls (p<0.05). The differential stability of the Th2 agonist, IL-4, compared to the antagonist IL-4delta2, represents a hitherto undescribed post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism that may modulate the polarisation of Th1/Th2 responses in human TB.
Interaction of Pneumocystis carinii with dendritic cells and resulting host responses to P. carinii.	To assess the interaction of Pneumocystis carinii with dendritic cells (DCs), and the consequences of the response of the host immune system to P. carinii antigens when DC are pulsed with P. carinii, murine DC were pulsed with P. carinii, and the resultant P. carinii host responses assessed in vitro and in vivo. P. carinii interacted with murine bone marrow-derived DC in vitro in part via mannose receptors. DC pulsed with P. carinii did not demonstrate increased expression of the cell surface markers MHC II, CD40, CD54, CD80 (B7.1), and CD86 (B7.2). The release of interleukin (IL)-4 was increased, but there was no increase in the release of interleukin (IL)-12p40, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-6, and nitrite compared with naive DC. In vivo administration of DC pulsed with P. carinii induced a P. carinii-specific response, generating CD4+ cells that proliferated and released IL-4, but not interferon-gamma, in response to P. carinii-pulsed DC in vitro. In vivo administration of DC pulsed with P. carinii also induced P. carinii-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)G1, IgG2a, and IgG2b, but not IgG3, antibodies in serum, and lung lavage fluid. Finally, CD4+ depleted mice immunized with DC pulsed with P. carinii demonstrated suppression of lung growth of P. carinii after intratracheal challenge with P. carinii at 3 and 16 weeks after immunization. These observations provide insight into DC-P. carinii interactions, and support the concept that a vaccine that includes DC pulsed with P. carinii can mount a humoral and T helper 2-type cellular response to P. carinii sufficient to suppress the growth of P. carinii in the lung.
Effects of probiotics on allergic rhinitis induced by Japanese cedar pollen: randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.	Lactobacillus casei strain Shirota (LcS) has been found to exert antiallergic effects in animal experiments, but there is little information about its clinical effects in human patients with allergy.
Th1 immune response promotes severe bone resorption caused by Porphyromonas gingivalis.	Bacterial infections of the dental pulp result in soft tissue and alveolar bone destruction. It has been suggested that Th1 responses promote disease, whereas Th2 responses are protective. However, other studies have challenged this notion. To address this question, bone destruction was evaluated in mice immunized to develop strong and polarized Th1- or Th2-biased responses to the oral pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis. Th1 bias was confirmed by the presence of high titers of serum IgG2a and the production of high levels of interferon (IFN)-gamma and no interleukin (IL)-4 by lymph node cells stimulated with P. gingivalis antigens. In contrast, Th2-biased animals had high titer IgG1 and no IgG2a, and their lymph node cells produced high levels of IL-4 but no IFN-gamma. Subsequent infection of the dental pulp with P. gingivalis caused extensive inflammation and alveolar bone destruction in Th1-biased mice, whereas Th2-biased mice and controls developed minimal lesions. Inflammatory granulomas in Th1-biased mice were heavily infiltrated with osteoclasts and had high local expression of IFN-gamma, IL-1alpha, and IL-1beta. Little or no IFN-gamma/IL-1alpha/IL-1beta and no obvious osteoclasts were detected in lesions of Th2-biased and control groups. These results directly demonstrate that specific Th1 responses promote severe infection-stimulated alveolar bone loss.
IL-17 family cytokines and the expanding diversity of effector T cell lineages.	Since its conception two decades ago, the Th1-Th2 paradigm has provided a framework for understanding T cell biology and the interplay of innate and adaptive immunity. Naive T cells differentiate into effector T cells with enhanced functional potential for orchestrating pathogen clearance largely under the guidance of cytokines produced by cells of the innate immune system that have been activated by recognition of those pathogens. This secondary education of post-thymic T cells provides a mechanism for appropriately matching adaptive immunity to frontline cues of the innate immune system. Owing in part to the rapid identification of novel cytokines of the IL-17 and IL-12 families using database searches, the factors that specify differentiation of a new effector T cell lineage-Th17-have now been identified, providing a new arm of adaptive immunity and presenting a unifying model that can explain many heretofore confusing aspects of immune regulation, immune pathogenesis, and host defense.
Downregulation of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 33 by IFN-gamma in human airway smooth muscle cells.	A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 33 (ADAM33) has been identified as a susceptibility gene for asthma. ADAM33 is expressed in airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells and is suggested to play a role in the function of these cells. However, there is little information on the regulation of ADAM33.
Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 deficiency leads to a spontaneous allergic inflammation in the murine lung.	Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP-1) controls the intracellular level of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase product phosphotidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate and functions as a negative regulator of cytokine and immune receptor signaling. Emerging evidence suggests that the phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathway might be involved in allergic inflammation in the lung. However, the functional relevance of SHIP-1 in the T(H)2 activation pathway has not been established. SHIP-1(-/-) mice have spontaneous myeloproliferative inflammation in the lung, the nature of which has not been elucidated. We hypothesized that SHIP-1 plays an important role as a regulator in pulmonary allergic inflammation and in maintaining lung homeostasis.
Regulation of allergic airway inflammation by class I-restricted allergen presentation and CD8 T-cell infiltration.	CD8 T cells are known to respond to exogenous antigens through cross-presentation. The importance of the CD8 cell response in the lung after inhalation of allergen and its effects on asthmatic inflammation are less clear.
Echinococcus granulosus antigen B impairs human dendritic cell differentiation and polarizes immature dendritic cell maturation towards a Th2 cell response.	Despite inducing a strong host cellular and humoral immune response, the helminth Echinococcus granulosus is a highly successful parasite that develops, progresses, and ultimately causes chronic disease. Although surgery remains the preferred therapeutic option, pharmacological research now envisages antihelminthic strategies. To understand the mechanisms that E. granulosus uses to escape host immunosurveillance and promote chronic infection, we investigated how two hydatid cyst components, purified antigen B (AgB) and sheep hydatid fluid (SHF), act on host dendritic cell (DC) differentiation from monocyte precursors and how they influence maturation of DC that have already differentiated. We evaluated the immunomodulatory potential of these antigens by performing immunochemical and cytofluorimetric analyses of monocyte-derived DCs from healthy human donors. During monocyte differentiation, AgB and SHF downmodulated CD1a expression and upregulated CD86 expression. Compared with immature DCs differentiated in medium alone (iDCs), AgB- and SHF-differentiated cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide included a significantly lower percentage of CD83(+) cells (P < 10(-4)) and had weaker costimulatory molecule expression. When stimulated with AgB and SHF, iDCs matured and primed lymphocytes towards the Th2 response typical of E. granulosus infection. SHF and particularly AgB reduced the production of interleukin-12p70 (IL-12p70) and tumor necrosis factor alpha in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated iDCs. Anti-IL-10 antibodies increased the levels of IL-12p70 secretion in AgB- and SHF-matured DCs. AgB and SHF induced interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase phosphorylation and activated nuclear factor-kappaB, suggesting that Toll-like receptors could participate in E. granulosus-stimulated DC maturation. These results suggest that E. granulosus escapes host immunosurveillance in two ways: by interfering with monocyte differentiation and by modulating DC maturation.
Serum cytokine levels in response to hepatic cryoablation.	Cryogenic treatment sometimes stimulates the immune system by releasing intracellular antigens. We evaluated anti-tumor immune response by analyzing alterations in serum cytokine levels.
Vitamin D receptor expression by the lung micro-environment is required for maximal induction of lung inflammation.	Mice lacking the vitamin D receptor (VDR) are resistant to airway inflammation. Pathogenic immune cells capable of transferring experimental airway inflammation to wildtype (WT) mice are present and primed in the VDR KO mice. Furthermore, the VDR KO immune cells homed to the WT lung in sufficient numbers to induce symptoms of asthma. Conversely, WT splenocytes, Th2 cells and hematopoetic cells induced some symptoms of experimental asthma when transferred to VDR KO mice, but the severity was less than that seen in the WT controls. Interestingly, experimentally induced vitamin D deficiency failed to mirror the VDR KO phenotype suggesting there might be a difference between absence of the ligand and VDR deficiency. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced inflammation in the lungs of VDR KO mice was also less than in WT mice. Together the data suggest that vitamin D and the VDR are important regulators of inflammation in the lung and that in the absence of the VDR the lung environment, independent of immune cells, is less responsive to environmental challenges.
Endometriosis: an inflammatory disease with a Th2 immune response component.	Efforts have been made to correctly characterize the role of the immune response in endometriosis. The objective of this study was to analyse the interaction between Th1 and Th2 immune response patterns and endometriosis by evaluating a panel of cytokines.
Intranasal immunization with phosphorylcholine induces antigen specific mucosal and systemic immune responses in mice.	Phosphorylcholine (PC) is a structural component of a wide variety of pathogens including Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae, and anti-PC immune responses are known to protect mice against invasive bacterial diseases. The present study tested the capability of PC as an intranasal plurispecific vaccine against upper airway infections. BALB/c mice immunized with intranasal PC-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) plus cholera toxin (CT) as a mucosal adjuvant showed increased PC-specific IgM in serum, IgA in nasal wash and saliva, and numbers of PC-specific nasal and splenic antibody producing cells. Enhanced production of IL-4 and IFN-gamma by CD4+ T cells indicated the participation of Th2- and Th1-type cells. Salivary IgA antibodies produced by intranasal immunization with PC-KLH plus CT reacted to most strains of S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae. Further we demonstrated that the clearance of S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae from the nasal tract was significantly enhanced by nasal immunization with PC-KLH and CT. Thus, intranasal vaccination to induce PC-specific immune responses might help to prevent upper airway infections caused by S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae.
Antigen-specific CD4+ T cells recognize epitopes of protective antigen following vaccination with an anthrax vaccine.	Detection of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells is facilitated by the use of fluorescently labeled soluble peptide-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) multimers which mirror the antigen specificity of T-cell receptor recognition. We have used soluble peptide-MHC class II tetramers containing peptides from the protective antigen (PA) of Bacillus anthracis to detect circulating T cells in peripheral blood of subjects vaccinated with an anthrax vaccine. PA-specific HLA class II-restricted T lymphocytes were isolated which displayed both TH1- and TH2-like characteristics, indicating heterogeneity of the lymphocyte lineage within the CD4+ response. Presentation of antigen to these T-cell clones by HLA-matched antigen-presenting cells exposed to the intact PA protein confirmed that the identified epitopes are indeed naturally processed by the human immune system. Specific tetramer-derived T-cell profiling may be useful for monitoring helper CD4+ T-cell responses to anthrax vaccination.
Protection against anthrax by needle-free mucosal immunization with human anthrax vaccine.	Human vaccination with BioThrax requires six injections followed by annual boosters. This makes it difficult for the compliance of the immunization program and underscores the need for development of a new and optimized vaccination protocol. Current research aims to demonstrate the proof of concept to develop a needle-free mucosal immunization protocol using a murine anthrax model. A/J mice were immunized with BioThrax via an intranasal route. Sera, saliva, vaginal, and nasal washes were evaluated for protective antigen (PA) specific antibody responses by ELISA. Antigen-specific, antibody-secreting lymphocytes were measured by ELISPOT. Sera neutralization antibody titers were determined by in vitro anthrax lethal toxin (Letx) neutralization assay. Immunized animals were challenged by a lethal dose of Bacillus anthracis Sterne spores to determine the efficacy of the vaccination. Nasal mucosal immunization with BioThrax elicited robust serum and mucosal antibody responses against PA. The antigen specific antibodies neutralized anthrax Letx, as demonstrated by in vitro neutralization assays. Two doses of intranasal BioThrax were sufficient to completely protect A/J mice against challenge with 100xLD50B. anthracis Sterne spores. The data suggests that intranasal administration may be an effective immunization modality for an improved immunization program against anthrax.
Th1 and Th2 cells help CD8 T-cell responses.	Help from CD4 T cells is often important for the establishment of primary and memory CD8 T-cell responses. However, it has yet to be determined whether T helper polarization affects the delivery of help and/or whether responding CD8 T cells helped by Th1 or Th2 cells express distinct effector properties. To address these issues, we compared CD8 T-cell responses in the context of Th1 or Th2 help by injecting dendritic cells copulsed with the major histocompatibility complex class I-restricted OVA peptide plus, respectively, bacterial or helminth antigens. We found that Th2 cells, like Th1 cells, can help primary and long-lived memory CD8 T-cell responses. Experiments in interleukin-12 (IL-12)-/- and IL-4-/- mice, in which polarized Th1 or Th2 responses, respectively, fail to develop, indicate that the underlying basis of CD4 help is independent of attributes acquired as a response to polarization.
Respiratory syncytial virus replication is prolonged by a concomitant allergic response.	Epidemiological studies show an association between early exposure to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and the development or exacerbation of asthma. This idea is supported by studies in mice that demonstrate worsened airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) when RSV-infected animals are exposed to allergen. The effect of allergen on RSV disease, however, has not been reported. Cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) that have been used as a model to study RSV pathogenesis were sensitized to extracts of Aspergillus fumigatus (Af), a common household mould. The allergic response to Af included eosinophilia, formation of granulomas and induction of Th2 type cytokines. RSV infection prior to allergen challenge resulted in exacerbation of the inflammatory response as well as increased airway responsiveness to methacholine. The exacerbated response was indeed dependent on virus replication. Virus replication in turn was influenced by the allergic response, with persistence in the noses for 2 days longer in animals challenged with allergen. This diminished clearance corresponded to decreased induction of mRNA for IFN-gamma, a Th1-type cytokine that is characteristic of viral infection. Treatment of RSV-infected Af-challenged animals with recombinant IFN-gamma reduced the allergic inflammatory response as well as the relative levels of Th1 and Th2 cytokine mRNA. However, this treatment did not reduce airway reactivity, showing that these pathologic and physiologic measures of exacerbated disease are independent. We speculate that the reciprocal effect of the allergic response on viral immunity may benefit the host by limiting exacerbation of physiologic responses that are IFN-gamma-dependent.
Relationship between Helicobacter pylori virulence factors and regulatory cytokines as predictors of clinical outcome.	Helicobacter pylori infection is highly prevalent in Chile (73%). Usually a minority of infected patients develops complications such as ulcers and gastric cancer that have been associated with the presence of virulence factors (cagA, vacA) and host T helper response (Th1/Th2). Our aim was to evaluate the relationship between strain virulence and host immune response, using a multiple regression approach for the development of a model based on data collected from H. pylori infected patients in Chile. We analyzed levels of selected cytokines determined by ELISA (interleukin (IL)-12, IL-10, interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-4) and the presence of cagA and vacA alleles polymorphisms determined by PCR in antral biopsies of 41 patients referred to endoscopy. By multiple regression analysis we established a correlation between bacterial and host factors using clinical outcome (gastritis and duodenal ulcer) as dependent variables. The selected model was described by: clinical outcome=0.867491 (cagA)+0.0131847 (IL-12/IL-10)+0.0103503 (IFN-gamma/IL-4) and it was able to explain over 90% of clinical outcomes observations (R(2)=96.4). This model considers that clinical outcomes are better explained by the interaction of host immune factors and strain virulence as a complex and interdependent mechanism.
Distinct tissue cytokine and chemokine mRNA expression in canine sino-nasal aspergillosis and idiopathic lymphoplasmacytic rhinitis.	Idiopathic lymphoplasmacytic rhinitis (LPR) and sino-nasal aspergillosis (SNA) are among the most common causes of nasal discharge in dogs. The pathogenesis of both diseases is poorly understood. Some have proposed that LPR is a chronic inflammatory response to an inhaled irritant, pollutant or allergen, but others suggest that most cases of LPR constitute undiagnosed cases of SNA. Local immune dysfunction is thought to permit opportunist infection in canine SNA. This study investigates the nature of the local tissue immune response mounted in canine LPR and SNA in order to determine whether these diseases have similar or distinct pathogenesis. Quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was carried out on RNA isolated from nasal biopsies from diseased and control dogs, using specific assays designed to amplify messenger RNA (mRNA), encoding a panel of cytokines and chemokines. SNA was associated with significantly increased expression of mRNA encoding interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p19, IL-12p35, IL-12p40, IL-18, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta, eotaxin-2 and all four monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs) relative to controls. LPR was associated with significantly increased expression of mRNA encoding IL-5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p19, IL-12p40, IL-18, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta, MCP-2 and MCP-3 relative to controls. There was significantly more expression of mRNA encoding IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p35, IL-12p40, IL-18, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta and all MCPs, and significantly less expression of IL-5 in dogs with SNA than in dogs with LPR. Thus, the profile of cytokine and chemokine gene expression in the nasal mucosa is different in dogs with LPR when compared to dogs with SNA. A partial Th2 immune response appears to be mounted in the nasal mucosa of dogs with LPR, whereas the mucosal immune response in canine SNA is of the Th1 type. Increase in IL-10 and TGF-beta transcripts in dogs with SNA is thought to be implicated in the failure to clear the Aspergillus infection. These results constitute the first evidence that the pathogenesis of canine LPR and SNA is distinct.
Generation and sustained expansion of mouse spleen invariant NKT cell lines with preserved cytokine releasing capacity.	Invariant Natural Killer T (iNKT) cells are CD1d restricted innate lymphoid cells with an invariant T cell receptor (TCR) alpha chain gene rearrangement (Valpha24-Jalpha18 in human and Valpha14-Jalpha18 in mouse). iNKT cells play a pivotal role in anti-tumor immune responses via cytokine mediated transactivation of various cells which mediate innate and adaptive immune responses. Here we describe, to our knowledge for the first time, the generation of long-term mouse spleen derived iNKT cell lines. We found that dendritic cells (DC) derived from the D1 line, but not Mf4/4 macrophages, loaded with the artificial iNKT cell ligand alpha-Galactosylceramide (alphaGalCer) could be employed to expand iNKT cells in vitro. Furthermore, exogenously added IL-7, but not IL-2 or IL-15 had a pronounced additive effect on iNKT cell expansion. Using this method up to 10(8) iNKT cells could be obtained from one spleen within 12 to 14 weeks, and cell lines could be continued for up to 24 months. Importantly, the iNKT cell lines had retained the capacity to swiftly secrete substantial amounts of both T helper (Th) 1 and Th2 cytokines upon activation. In conclusion we have generated iNKT cell lines with high yields that can be maintained for up to 24 months, by repeated stimulation using alpha-GalCer loaded D1.DC and IL-7. These in vitro expanded iNKT cells preserved the capacity to swiftly produce both Th1 and Th2 type cytokines and are currently being utilized in pre-clinical adoptive transfer models to identify and optimize the characteristics of therapeutically effective iNKT cells in an anti-tumor setting.
Genetic polymorphisms of inflammatory cytokines and liver fibrosis progression due to recurrent hepatitis C.	To ascertain whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) regulating the expression of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IFN-gamma receptor-1 (IFNGR-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-10, IL-18, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) may be associated with early fibrosis progression of recurrent hepatitis C, 50 liver transplantation recipients (32 men, 18 women, median age 56 years) with a median histologic follow-up time of 54 months were studied; 98 healthy blood donors served as controls. Cytokine SNPs were determined by means of previously described PCR-based methods. On the basis of the SNP studies, a low, intermediate, or high producer cytokine phenotype was attributed to each patient. Only 1 of the 17 low IL-10 producers reached an Ishak staging score > 2, in contrast to 20 of the 33 patients who were intermediate or high IL-10 producers (Mantel-Cox, p < 0.005). Recipients who were low IL-10 producers and high IFN-gamma producers had significantly slower fibrosis progression in comparison to intermediate/high IL-10 producers and low IFN-gamma producers (p < 0.005). In conclusion, cytokine SNPs resulting in high and low producer phenotypes of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines appear to modulate the course of recurrent hepatitis C. Low IL-10 producers are those with the slowest histologic fibrosis progression.
Immunogenetic control of antibody responsiveness in a malaria endemic area.	This study builds upon the established genetic control of antimalarial immune responses and prior association studies by using a family-based approach, transmission disequilibrium testing, to identify immune response genes that influence antibody responses to Plasmodium falciparum infection in an endemic Tanzanian population. Candidate polymorphisms are within the interleukin-1 (IL-1) gene cluster, the IL-10 promoter, Major histocompatibility complex class II and III, the 5q31-q33 region, and the T-Cell Receptor beta variable region. There was a significant association between the IL1RN alleles and total IgE. Weak evidence for association was present between polymorphisms in the IL10 promoter region and both anti-P falciparum IgE and IgG4 antibodies.
IL-31-IL-31R interactions negatively regulate type 2 inflammation in the lung.	Interleukin (IL) 31Ralpha (glycoprotein 130-like monocyte receptor and glycoprotein 130-like receptor) heterodimerizes with oncostatin M receptor beta to bind IL-31, a cytokine expressed preferentially by CD4(+) T helper type 2 (Th2) cells. However, the functions of IL-31-IL-31R signaling in immune regulation remain unknown. Here, we identify a novel role for IL-31R in limiting type 2 inflammation in the lung. After intravenous injection of Schistosoma mansoni eggs, IL-31Ralpha(-/-) mice developed severe pulmonary inflammation, characterized by an increase in the area of granulomatous inflammation, increased numbers of resistin-like molecule alpha(+) cells, and enhanced collagen deposition compared to WT counterparts. In vitro, macrophages generated from IL-31Ralpha(-/-) mice promoted enhanced ovalbumin-specific CD4(+) T cell proliferation and purified naive CD4(+) T cells from IL-31Ralpha(-/-) mice exhibited enhanced proliferation and expression of Th2 cytokines, identifying a T cell- and macrophage-intrinsic regulatory function for IL-31R signaling. In contrast, the generation of CD4(+) T cell-mediated Th1 responses were normal in IL-31Ralpha(-/-) mice, suggesting that the regulatory role of IL-31R signaling is limited to type 2 responses. Together, these data implicate IL-31R signaling as a novel negative regulatory pathway that specifically limits type 2 inflammation.
Frequency of Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with chronic urticaria of Puebla University Hospital]	Chronic urticaria may be continuous or recurrent according to its form of appearance. Within the diseases associated to chronic urticaria there are mycosis, parasitism and bacterial infections where Helicobacter pylori stands out. This has been related to the allergic diseases promoting a Th2 response.
Lipopolysaccharide inhalation exacerbates allergic airway inflammation by activating mast cells and promoting Th2 responses.	Bacterial infection occasionally exacerbates asthma, although the cellular and molecular mechanisms have not been well defined. An involvement of mast cells has been suggested, as lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-induced cytokine production from mast cells in vitro.
Immune response and immunopathology in inducible costimulatory molecule (ICOS) transgenic mice infected with Schistosoma japonicum]	To establish the ICOS transgenic mice schistosomiasis japonica model and to observe the immune response and immunopathology of the model.
Freshly isolated Valpha24+ CD4+ invariant natural killer T cells activated by alpha-galactosylceramide-pulsed B cells promote both IgG and IgE production.	CD1d-restricted invariant natural killer T (iNK T) cells activated by their experimental ligand alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC) can produce both T helper 1 (Th1) and Th2 cytokines and display regulatory functions. Recent studies identified CD4(+) and CD4(-) CD8(-) double-negative (DN) iNK T cells as the two major components of the human population and suggest that they display a Th2 and a Th1 profile, respectively. We compared the Th2-promoting activity of freshly isolated human CD4(+) and DN iNK T cells in terms of their capacity to induce Ig production by autologous B cells. Secretion of IgG and IgE but not IgM was enhanced by the CD4(+) T cell subset (including iNK T cells) but not by its DN counterpart. iNK T cells were directly responsible for this pro-Th2 effect, as demonstrated by the requirement for both alpha-GC stimulation and CD1d presentation, as well as by its disappearance upon iNK T cell depletion. Interaction with iNK T cells led to progressive accumulation of isotype-switched and activated B cells. Myeloid dendritic cells (DC) completely block the induction of Ig production in co-culture. This dominant inhibitory effect of myeloid DC was concomitant with a specific loss of interleukin (IL)-4 production by CD4(+) iNK T but not by conventional T cells. These data support the conclusion that, conversely to the interferon (IFN)-gamma-producing DN human iNK T cell population, interleukin (IL)-4-producing CD4(+) iNK T cells can activate and help B cells to produce both IgG and IgE through a CD1d-dependent mechanism, in keeping with a functional Th1/Th2 dichotomy between these subsets.
Infection and vaccination in chronic fatigue syndrome: myth or reality?	Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterized by severe disabling fatigue lasting for more than 6 months associated with physical and mental disturbances such as headache, arthralgia, myalgia, memory impairment, sore throat and tender lymph nodes. The exact pathogenesis is still unknown. Several models were proposed to explain its etiology including chronic infection, endocrine dysfunction, autonomic imbalance, depression, decreased immunity states and an aberrant reaction to infection. No convincing evidence was found to support any of the suggested pathogenic mechanisms. The current concept is that CFS pathogenesis is a multi factorial condition in which an infective agent cause an aberrant immune response characterized by a shift to Th-2 dominant response. When the response fails to be switched-off, a chronic immune activation occurs and clinically expressed as the symptomatology of CFS. Vaccinations are used in order to stimulate the immune system to induce a persistent immunity against the favorable antigens. Several syndromes that contain chronic fatigue as one of their symptoms, such as "Gulf war syndrome" and macrophagic myofasciitis were related to vaccinations. Can vaccinations induce the aberrant immune response of CFS? Little is known about this issue. There are some reports on CFS occurring after vaccination, but few prospective and retrospective studies failed to find such an association. A working group of the Canadian Laboratory Center for Disease Control (LCDC) that was founded in order to examine the suspected association between CFS and vaccinations concluded that there is no evidence that relates CFS to vaccination. Further studies are requested to examine this issue since it is very conceivable that if infection can lead to CFS, vaccination may also lead to it in the same immune-mediated pathogenesis.
Modulation of chemokines by staphylococcal superantigen in atopic dermatitis.	Atopic dermatitis is a common pruritic and chronically relapsing inflammatory skin disease. Atopic dermatitis patients show disturbed skin barrier functions, frequent allergic responses against allergens, defects in the antimicrobial immune defense, and a genetic predisposition. Clinical and experimental evidence points to a role for staphylococcal superantigens during the initiation and amplification of atopic skin inflammation. In the past decade, numerous studies identified chemokines including CCL1, CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, CCL11, CCL13, CCL17, CCL18, CCL20, CCL22, CCL26, CCL27 and CX3CL1 to be associated with atopic dermatitis. Here we summarize recent findings suggesting a role for staphylococcal superantigens in the production of chemokines during the development of atopic skin inflammation.
BCG stimulated dendritic cells induce an interleukin-10 producing T-cell population with no T helper 1 or T helper 2 bias in vitro.	Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG) vaccine has been associated with beneficial effects on overall childhood mortality in low-income countries; this cannot be explained merely by the prevention of tuberculosis (TB) deaths. The beneficial effects of BCG vaccine could be the result of either strengthening of pro-inflammatory mechanisms, helping neonates to fight infections, or the induction of an immune-regulatory network restricting overt inflammation and intense pathology. We aimed to study the effect of live BCG on the ability of dendritic cells (DCs) to polarize T-cell responses. Monocyte-derived DCs were matured in the presence or absence of BCG. The DC phenotype was assessed by CD83 expression, interleukin-12 (IL-12) and IL-10 production, as well as for the ability to polarize T-cell responses. Following stimulation with CD40 ligand, DCs matured in the presence of BCG showed enhanced IL-10 and diminished IL-12 production. These DCs primed naive T cells to develop into IL-10-producing T cells, with no T helper 1 or T helper 2 bias. These results suggest that BCG vaccination might result in the development of IL-10-producing DCs as well as IL-10-producing T cells that could contribute to restricting overt inflammation in infants exposed to pathogens and thus lead to lower infant mortality.
Functional plasticity in memory T helper cell responses.	Following activation, naive CD4+ Th cells can differentiate to selectively produce either the Th1 lineage-specific cytokine IFN-gamma or the Th2 cytokine IL-4 and, in so doing, lose the capacity to produce cytokines of the alternative lineage. Lineage commitment of murine CD4+ T cells has largely been considered to be absolute with little flexibility to produce cytokines of the opposing lineage. In this study, we demonstrate that cells within Th2 memory populations can produce IFN-gamma if reactivated in vivo in the context of an innate response that favors Th1 cell development. Likewise, cells within Th1 memory populations produce IL-4 when challenged under conditions that promote Th2 responses. Both effector and unpolarized central memory cells retain the potential to produce cytokines that were not made during the primary response. These findings reveal that both effector and central memory Th1 and Th2 cells possess the capacity to respond to environmental cues to produce pathogen-appropriate cytokines of the opposing lineage.
Enhanced NFATc1 nuclear occupancy causes T cell activation independent of CD28 costimulation.	TCR signals induce the nuclear localization of NFATc proteins, which are removed from the nucleus after rephosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 and other kinases. Rapid nuclear export might allow continuous monitoring of receptor occupancy, making the transcriptional response proportional to the duration of TCR/CD28 signaling. To investigate this possibility, we analyzed mice in which T cells express a NFATc1 variant (NFATc1(nuc)) with serine-to-alanine changes at the glycogen synthase kinase 3 phosphorylation sites. NFATc1(nuc) T cells have constitutively nuclear NFATc1, enhanced T cell activation in vivo, and calcineurin-independent proliferation in vitro. NFATc1(nuc) T cells are hypersensitive to TCR/CD3 stimulation, resulting in enhanced proliferation and cytokine production that is independent of CD28 costimulation. These results support the notion that CD28 inhibits nuclear export of NFATc transcription factors. In addition, NFATc1(nuc) destabilizes a positive feedback loop in which NFATc1 activates its own transcription as well as its targets, such as CD40 ligand and Th1/Th2 cytokines.
Infection with a helminth parasite prevents experimental colitis via a macrophage-mediated mechanism.	The propensity of a range of parasitic helminths to stimulate a Th2 or regulatory cell-biased response has been proposed to reduce the severity of experimental inflammatory bowel disease. We examined whether infection with Schistosoma mansoni, a trematode parasite, altered the susceptibility of mice to colitis induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). Mice infected with schistosome worms were refractory to DSS-induced colitis. Egg-laying schistosome infections or injection of eggs did not render mice resistant to colitis induced by DSS. Schistosome worm infections prevent colitis by a novel mechanism dependent on macrophages, and not by simple modulation of Th2 responses, or via induction of regulatory CD4+ or CD25+ cells, IL-10, or TGF-beta. Infected mice had marked infiltration of macrophages (F4/80+CD11b+CD11c(-)) into the colon lamina propria and protection from DSS-induced colitis was shown to be macrophage dependent. Resistance from colitis was not due to alternatively activated macrophages. Transfer of colon lamina propria F4/80+ macrophages isolated from worm-infected mice induced significant protection from colitis in recipient mice treated with DSS. Therefore, we propose a new mechanism whereby a parasitic worm suppresses DSS-induced colitis via a novel colon-infiltrating macrophage population.
Difference in T helper responses during hepatitis flares in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients with genotypes B and C: implication for early HBeAg seroconversion.	The underlying mechanisms for earlier hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotype B when compared with genotype C are unknown. We aimed to determine whether there were any differences in the T helper (Th) responses during hepatitis flares in HBeAg-positive patients with genotypes B and C. Proliferative response measured by (3)H-thymidine uptake and Th responses measured by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Spot assays for interleukin (IL)-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4, IL-5 and IL-10 were performed in 10 patients with genotype B and 10 with genotype C with hepatitis flares. HBV genotypes, core promoter, precore mutations, sequence of HBV core region and HBV DNA levels were determined. There was no difference in the HBV DNA levels during hepatitis flares between patients with genotypes B and C. Patients with genotype B had a significantly higher number of IFN-gamma producing cells [with hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg) stimulation] and lower number of IL-10 producing cells (with HBcAg and HBeAg stimulation) compared with patients with genotype C (P = 0.011, =0.043, <0.001 respectively). There was a trend (P = 0.058) that patients with genotype B had a higher cumulative rate of HBeAg seroconversion. Patients with precore mutants also had a significantly higher number of IFN-gamma producing cells (with HBcAg stimulation) and lower number of IL-10 producing cells (with HBeAg stimulation) compared to patients without precore mutant (P = 0.038, =0.016 respectively). HBV genotype B induces a greater Th1 and lesser Th2 response than genotype C. This provides immunologic evidence for the higher chance of HBeAg seroconversion in patients with genotype B.
Ectopic PDX-1 expression in liver ameliorates type 1 diabetes.	Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) results from a specific autoimmune mediated destruction of the pancreatic beta-cells. PDX-1 induced developmentally redirected liver cells were suggested to restore the ablated pancreatic function in chemically induced diabetes. However, developmentally redirected liver cells, may have acquired along with the desired beta-cell characteristics and functions, also undesired sensitivity to autoimmune attack and therefore may be inefficient in ameliorating T1DM. This study analyzes whether subjects with beta-cell autoimmunity could benefit from Ad-CMV-PDX-1 gene therapy. Using the model of cyclophosphamide-accelerated diabetes in non-obese diabetic (CAD-NOD) mice, we report that recombinant adenovirus mediated PDX-1 gene therapy, ameliorates hyperglycemia in CAD-NOD mice. Our data demonstrate that 43% of the overtly diabetic CAD-NOD mice treated with Ad-CMV-PDX-1 became normoglycemic and maintained a stable body weight. Ectopic PDX-1 expression induced pancreatic gene expression and insulin production in the mice livers. The amelioration of hyperglycemia, in PDX-1 treated diabetic mice was associated with an immune modulation manifested by Th1 to Th2 shift in the autoimmune T-cell response to antigens associated with NOD diabetes. Thus, liver-to-pancreas transdifferentiation ameliorates T1DM in a process which is associated with a concomitant modulation of the autoimmune attack. Our findings suggest a beneficial therapeutic effect of the PDX-1 gene therapy for treating autoimmune type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM).
T1/ST2 expression on Th2 cells negatively regulates allergic pulmonary inflammation.	The transmembrane form of T1/ST2 (ST2) is a specific marker on murine Th2 cells that have been generated in vitro, or isolated from sites of allergic type 2 inflammation. Despite the association of ST2 with Th2 cells, to date no obligate role for ST2 in type 2 responses in vivo has been described. We have specifically addressed the role of ST2 on T cells by generation of ST2(-/-) mice crossed with ovalbumin (OVA) T cell receptor-transgenic mice. OVA-specific ST2(-/-) cells had normal cytokine responses to T cell activation after in vitro Th2 differentiation, but OVA stimulation of IL-5 was increased. Transfer of OVA-specific ST2(-/-) Th2 cells into BALB/c mice caused exacerbated pulmonary inflammation with occluded airways, elevated airway hyper-responsiveness and increased susceptibility to methacholine challenge that was associated with mortalities of recipient mice. The increased pulmonary inflammation in OVA-specific ST2(-/-) Th2 cell recipients was associated with selective differences in pulmonary levels of Th2 cytokines compared with OVA-specific ST2(+) Th2 cell recipients. Recipients of OVA-specific ST2(-/-) Th2 cells had a significant increase in eosinophils and a significant reduction in F4/80(hi) macrophages in the lungs. This is the first demonstration of a role for ST2 expression on Th2 cells down-regulating pulmonary inflammation. These data have major implications for the targeting of ST2 as a therapy for allergic airway disorders.
Th1 and Th2 cells are required for both eosinophil- and neutrophil-associated airway inflammatory responses in mice.	Most current animal models focus on eosinophil-mediated asthma, despite compelling evidence that a neutrophil-mediated disease occurs in some asthma patients. Using intranasal challenge of mice sensitized either orally or nasally with whole peanut protein extract in the presence of cholera toxin, we developed mouse models of eosinophil- and neutrophil-mediated asthma, respectively. In this study, mice deficient in Th1 (IL-12 and IFN-gamma) or Th2 (IL-4 and IL-13) pathways were used to characterize the role played by Th1 and Th2 cytokines during the initial priming phase in the two models. Antigen-specific Ab responses were controlled primarily by Th2 cytokines in mice sensitized by the oral route, whereas Th1 cytokines appeared to play a predominant role in mice sensitized by the nasal route. Furthermore, the absence of key Th1 or Th2 cytokines during the initial phase of priming reduced lung reactivity in both mouse models of airway inflammation.
Prenatal versus postnatal sensitization to environmental allergens in a high-risk birth cohort.	The timing of allergen sensitization is controversial, with conflicting evidence suggesting transplacental priming versus exclusively postnatal priming. Resolution of this question is important in relation to rational design of allergy prevention strategies, particularly the issue of allergen avoidance during pregnancy.
Dendritic cell-based vaccine strategy against human immunodeficiency virus clade C: skewing the immune response toward a helper T cell type 2 profile.	Given the continued spread of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 worldwide, developing efficient vaccine strategies against HIV-1 is a key task. We tested the safety and immunogenicity of a multicomponent, cell-based vaccine that consisted of antigen-expressing apoptotic bodies with or without autologous dendritic cells (DCs). The vaccine strategy involved transfection of human 293T cells with codon-optimized DNA vectors expressing env of HIV1084i, a newly transmitted pediatric HIV-1 clade C strain; SHIV89.6P tat; and SIVmac239 gag-protease. Apoptotic bodies were generated by heat shock and ultraviolet irradiation and mixed either with mouse DCs (DC-cell vaccine) or given directly (cell-only vaccine) to BALB/c mice for initial priming; boosts consisted of apoptotic bodies only. The immunogens were well tolerated with or without DCs. Compared with the cell-only vaccine, the DC-cell vaccine induced higher antibody titers against all three antigens, whereas virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses were equally strong in both groups. Iso-type analysis of viral antigen-specific antibodies revealed a skewing toward helper T type 2 responses induced by the DC-cell vaccine but not by the cell-only vaccine. In summary, both vaccine strategies were safe and induced cellular as well as humoral antiviral immunity; the DC-based approach had the advantage of significantly stronger antibody responses.
Genetic immunization: new ways for protective and therapeutic vaccines against allergic diseases]	Gene vaccines have proven to be a powerful tool to induce anti-allergic immune responses. Their underlying functional principle is based on the recruitment of allergen-specific Th1 cells and the establishment of a Th1 cytokine milieu, which protects against the development of a Th2-biased response and balances an already ongoing Th2-type response. Genetic immunization also offers novel approaches to the major problems associated with protein immunization, such as crosslinking of preexisting IgE on mast cells/basophils or induction of de novo synthesis of IgE by the protein immunization itself. In addition to the description of the principles of gene vaccination, this review gives a short overview of recently developed anti-allergic gene vaccines with an optimized efficacy and safety profile.
The role of interleukin 17 cytokine family in inducing allergic inflammation in the pulmonary tract]	IL-17 family is a group of proinflammatory cytokines produced by activated memory T-cells. These cytokines play an important role in the development of cellular and humoral mechanisms of immunological responses lying at the basis of allergic disorders. The aim of this paper is to present the current knowledge on the role of interleukin 17 cytokine family in the pathogenesis of allergic disorders of the respiratory tract. IL-17A (as well as IL-17F) plays role in the development of airway hyperresponsiveness through activation of allergen-specific T-cells. Levels of IL-17A are elevated in sputum of asthmatic patients and correlate with airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine. However, it remains fact, that the main effect of IL-17A in the pulmonary tract is recrutation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, depending on CXC chemokine release from stromal cells. IL-17E evokes different immunological responses. This cytokine participates in the development of Th2-cell-dependent immunological response and the coexisting pathological tissue changes. These actions take place mainly through the induction of synthesis of the Th2 cell-derived cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13) and the development of eosinophilic inflammation. It is thought, that the character of the immunological response evoked by different cytokines of IL-17 family depends on the differences between the spatial structure of their fragments including disulfide bridges and that these differences determine their receptor interactions and biological functions.
Chronic urticaria: what is new, where are we headed.	Chronic urticaria can be defined as the occurrence of widespread daily or nearly daily wheals for at least 6 weeks, which may be accompanied by angioedema. It is a disease with a considerable impact on patients' quality of life. Furthermore, these patients may undergo extensive laboratory evaluations seeking a cause only to be frustrated when none is found. There is no curative treatment for this disorder and we do not understand the mechanisms that lead to the onset of disease. However, in recent years there have been significant advances in the understanding of some of the molecular mechanisms that cause cutaneous inflammation that is manifest as urticaria and angioedema. In this review we will summarize our recent contributions to this field and try to offer insights regarding future directions for research.
Therapeutical approaches of vasoactive intestinal peptide as a pleiotropic immunomodulator.	The vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) are two neuropeptides belonging to the VIP/secretin/glucagon family of peptides. VIP/PACAP are present and released from both innervation and immune cells, particularly Th2 cells, and exert a wide spectrum of immunological functions controlling the homeostasis of immune system through different receptors expressed in various immunocompetent cells. VIP/PACAP have a general anti-inflammatory effect, both in innate and adaptive immunity. In innate immunity, VIP/PACAP inhibit the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines from macrophages, microglia and dendritic cells. In addition, VIP/PACAP reduce the expression of costimulatory molecules (particularly CD80 and CD86) on the antigen-presenting cells, and therefore reduce stimulation of antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells. In terms of adaptive immunity, VIP/PACAP promote Th2-type responses, and reduce the pro-inflammatory Th1-type responses. Several of the molecular mechanisms involved in the inhibition of cytokine and chemokine expression, and in the preferential development and/or survival of Th2 effectors, are perfectly known. Therefore, VIP/PACAP and analogues have been recently proposed as very promising candidates, alternative to other existing treatments, for treating acute and chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, such as septic shock, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Crohn disease, or autoimmune diabetes. The aim of this review is firstly to update our knowledge of the cellular and molecular events relevant to VIP function on the immune system; and secondly to gather together recent data that support its role as a type 2 cytokine. Recognition of the central functions VIP plays in cellular processes is focusing our attention on this "very important peptide" as an exciting new candidate for therapeutic intervention and drug development.
Sublingual immunotherapy reduces allergic symptoms in a mouse model of rhinitis.	Sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) is a clinically effective treatment in both pollen and house dust mite-induced rhinitis and asthma. However, the mechanisms by which this is accomplished are not clear.
Chronic exposure to schistosome eggs reduces serum cholesterol but has no effect on atherosclerotic lesion development.	Previous studies have shown that people infected with schistosomiasis have lower levels of serum cholesterol than uninfected controls. To better understand the impact of this parasitic infection on serum cholesterol levels and on atherosclerotic lesion development induced by hypercholesterolemia, apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-deficient mice were chronically exposed to the eggs of Schistosoma mansoni over a period of 16 weeks. Total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) were reduced in egg-exposed ApoE-deficient mice fed a diet high in cholesterol compared to unexposed controls. However, exposure to eggs had no effect on atherosclerotic lesion size or progression in ApoE-deficient mice. Macrophages isolated from egg-exposed mice had an enhanced ability to take up LDL but not acetylated LDL (acLDL). This study suggests that schistosome eggs alone may alter serum lipid profiles through enhancing LDL uptake by macrophages, but these changes do not ultimately affect atherosclerotic lesion development.
Nod1-mediated innate immune recognition of peptidoglycan contributes to the onset of adaptive immunity.	Recent evidence has suggested that signals other than those from Toll-like receptors (TLRs) could contribute to the elicitation of antigen-specific immunity. Therefore, we examined the role of the Nod-like receptor (NLR) family member, Nod1, in the generation of adaptive immune responses. Our findings show that innate immune sensing of peptidoglycan by Nod1 is key for priming antigen-specific T cell immunity and subsequent antibody responses in vivo. Nod1 stimulation alone was sufficient to drive antigen-specific immunity with a predominant Th2 polarization profile. In conjunction with TLR stimulation, however, Nod1 triggering was required to instruct the onset of Th1 and Th2 as well as Th17 immune pathways. Cells outside of the hematopoietic lineage provided the early signals necessary to orchestrate the development of Nod1-dependent immune responses. These findings highlight Nod1 as a key innate immune trigger in the local tissue microenvironment that drives the development of adaptive immunity.
Protective immunity of biodegradable nanoparticle-based vaccine against an experimental challenge with Salmonella Enteritidis in mice.	Salmonella spp. infections transmitted by contaminated poultry and eggs represent a major global health burden. Salmonella enterica serovar. Enteritidis is the leading cause of human salmonellosis worldwide. The cell surface antigens of Salmonella Enteritidis play an important role in the host-pathogen interactions and as such represent potential candidates for subunit-vaccine development. An immunogenic subcellular extract obtained from whole Salmonella Enteritidis cells (HE) was encapsulated in nanoparticles made with the polymer Gantrez (HE-NP). Proteomics was used to investigate the complex protein nature of the HE extract. Immunogenicity and protection studies against lethal Salmonella Enteritidis challenge were performed in BALB/c mice. Increased survival was observed in vaccinated mice as compared to a control group; 80% of the mice immunized with the HE-NP formulation survived even when administered 49 days before the lethal challenge. The cytokines released from in vitro-stimulated spleens showed a strong gamma interferon response in all immunized groups at day 10 post-immunization. However, the immunity induced by HE-NP at day 49 post-immunization suggests the involvement of a TH2 subclass in the protective effect. The potential for mucosal vaccination suggests that HE-nanoparticles may represent an important alternative to the conventional attenuated vaccines against Salmonella Enteritidis.
Study on the expression of transcription factor GATA-3 and T-bet mRNA in decidua of women with unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion]	To investigate the roles of transcription factor GATA-3 and T-bet at the fetal-maternal interface in the pathogenesis of unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA).
CTLA-4 differentially regulates the immunological synapse in CD4 T cell subsets.	Primary murine Th1 and Th2 cells differ in the organization of the immunological synapse, with Th1 cells, but not Th2 cells, clustering signaling molecules at the T cell/B cell synapse site. We sought to determine whether differential costimulatory signals could account for the differences observed. We found that Th2 cells express higher levels of CTLA-4 than Th1 cells, and demonstrated that Th2 cells lacking CTLA-4 are now able to cluster the TCR with the same frequency as Th1 cells. Furthermore, reconstitution of CTLA-4 into CTLA-4-deficient Th2 cells, or into Th1 cells, inhibits the clustering of the TCR. We have also shown that Th2 cells, but not Th1 cells, show variations in the organization of the immunological synapse depending on levels of expression of CD80/CD86 on the APC. These studies demonstrate a unique role for CTLA-4 as a critical regulator of Th2 cells and the immunological synapse.
Autoimmune uveitis elicited with antigen-pulsed dendritic cells has a distinct clinical signature and is driven by unique effector mechanisms: initial encounter with autoantigen defines disease phenotype.	Human autoimmune uveitis is a heterogeneous group of potentially blinding ocular diseases in which most patients who exhibit immunity recognize the same retinal Ag. It is represented by the model of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) induced in mice by immunization with retinal Ag in CFA. Murine EAU is characterized by a Th1/Th17 response pattern, which may not represent all types of human uveitis. We report in this study a new model of EAU induced by injection of matured dendritic cells loaded with a uveitogenic retinal peptide. Dendritic cell-induced EAU demonstrated unique characteristics compared with traditional EAU in terms of clinical manifestations, the nature of the inflammatory infiltrating cells, the cytokine response profile, and a strict requirement for IFN-gamma, whereas IL-17 appeared to play a minor role. Disease was self-limiting, but could be reinduced with the same Ag in CFA, albeit with reduced severity, suggesting post-recovery resistance. Our study demonstrates in a disease setting that the context in which the same autoantigen is initially presented to the immune system precipitates distinct forms of pathology via a distinct pathogenic pathway on the same genetic background. These findings may shed new light on the complex biology and the heterogeneous nature of human uveitis, and provide an alternative model for uveitic diseases of immune origin.
MyD88-mediated instructive signals in dendritic cells regulate pulmonary immune responses during respiratory virus infection.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of respiratory disease in infants worldwide. The induction of innate immunity and the establishment of adaptive immune responses are influenced by the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns by TLRs. One of the primary pathways for TLR activation is by MyD88 adapter protein signaling. The present studies indicate that MyD88 deficiency profoundly impacts the pulmonary environment in RSV-infected mice characterized by the accumulation of eosinophils and augmented mucus production. Although there was little difference in CD4 T cell accumulation, there was also a significant decrease in conventional dendritic cells recruitment to the lungs of MyD88(-/-) mice. The exacerbation of RSV pathophysiology in MyD88(-/-) mice was associated with an enhanced Th2 cytokine profile that contributed to an inappropriate immune response. Furthermore, bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDC) isolated from MyD88(-/-) mice were incapable of producing two important Th1 instructive signals, IL-12 and delta-like4, upon RSV infection. Although MyD88(-/-) BMDCs infected with RSV did up-regulate costimulatory molecules, they did not up-regulate class II as efficiently and stimulated less IFN-gamma from CD4(+) T cells in vitro compared with wild-type BMDCs. Finally, adoptive transfer of C57BL/6 BMDCs into MyD88(-/-) mice reconstituted Th1 immune responses in vivo, whereas transfer of MyD88(-/-) BMDCs into wild-type mice skewed the RSV responses toward a Th2 phenotype. Taken together, our data indicate that MyD88-mediated pathways are essential for the least pathogenic responses to this viral pathogen through the regulation of important Th1-associated instructive signals.
Changes in serum eotaxin and eosinophil cationic protein levels, and eosinophil count during treatment of childhood asthma.	Increased serum levels of eotaxin are related to the severity of asthma in adults. There are limited data on the effects of oral corticosteroids and inhaled corticosteroid therapy on serum levels of eotaxin and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and peripheral blood eosinophil counts (ECs) in pediatric asthma patients. We investigated prospectively the changes in eotaxin and ECP serum levels and peripheral blood ECs after administering oral corticosteroids and then inhaled corticosteroids plus long-acting beta2 agonist treatment in pediatric patients.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis]	Infections with Leishmania are increasing worldwide because of tourism and job-related travel; central Europe is no exception. Infections often first become apparent after return from an endemic region. Depending on the Leishmania species and the host immune status, different forms of cutaneous (CL), mucocutaneous (MCL) (L. brasiliensis complex) or visceral leishmaniasis (L. donovani as well as L. infantum) may develop. CL may heal spontaneously with scarring but can evolve into diffuse CL (with reduced immune response to L. amazonensis, L. guyanensis, L. mexicana or L. aethiopica) or into recurrent CL. Diagnostic criteria include travel to an endemic area as well as ulcerated plaques or nodules on an exposed site which show no tendency towards healing over 3-4 weeks. Differential diagnostic considerations include ecthyma, other infectious ulcers, and malignant neoplasms. The diagnosis is confirmed by finding Leishmania in a smear or tissue biopsy, as well as by culture. Therapy options range from topical treatment of simple CL of the Old World caused by L. major to systemic therapy which is needed for most complex cases of CL as well as MCL. Miltefosine is a less toxic option to replace the antimony compounds.
Overexpression of suppressor of cytokine signalling-5 augments eosinophilic airway inflammation in mice.	Enhanced expression of the suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS)-5 might be of therapeutic benefit for T-helper type 2 (Th2) dominant diseases, as its expression is reported to result in a reduction of Th2 differentiation in vitro due to the inhibition of IL-4 signalling.
"Pathogen-mimicking" nanoparticles for vaccine delivery to dendritic cells.	A clinically relevant delivery system that can efficiently target and deliver antigens and adjuvant to dendritic cells (DCs) is under active investigation. Immunization with antigens and immunomodulators encapsulated in poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles elicits potent cellular immune responses; but understanding how this mode of delivery affects DCs and priming of naive T cells needs further investigation. In the current study, we assessed the extent of maturation of DCs after treatment with monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) encapsulated in PLGA nanoparticles and the generation of primary T-cell immune responses elicited by DCs loaded with antigens using this approach. Results indicated that DCs up-regulated the expression of surface maturation markers and demonstrated an enhanced allostimulatory capacity after treatment with MPLA containing PLGA nanoparticles. Treatment of DCs with MPLA containing nanoparticles released high amounts of proinflammatory and TH1 (T helper 1) polarizing cytokines and chemokines greater than that achieved by MPLA in solution. The delivery of ovalbumin in PLGA nanoparticles to DCs induced potent in vitro and in vivo antigen-specific primary TH1 immune responses that were furthermore enhanced with codelivery of MPLA along with the antigen in the nanoparticle formulation. Delivery of MUC1 lipopeptide (BLP25, a cancer vaccine candidate) and MPLA in PLGA nanoparticles to human DCs induced proliferation of MUC1 reactive T cells in vitro demonstrating the break in tolerance to self-antigen MUC1. These results demonstrated that targeting antigens along with toll-like receptor ligands in PLGA nanoparticles to DCs is a promising approach for generating potent TH1 polarizing immune responses that can potentially override self-tolerance mechanisms and become beneficial in the immunotherapy of cancer and infectious diseases.
Serum levels of the Th1 promoter IL-12 and the Th2 chemokine TARC are elevated in erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and correlate with soluble Fas ligand expression. An immunoenzymatic study from the Italian Group of Immunopathology.	No data exist as to Th2 chemokines in erythema multiforme (EM) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS)/toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN).
Th immune response induced by H pylori vaccine with chitosan as adjuvant and its relation to immune protection.	To study the immunological protective effect of H pylori vaccine with chitosan as an adjuvant and its mechanism.
Differential induction of CD94 and NKG2 in CD4 helper T cells. A consequence of influenza virus infection and interferon-gamma?	Influenza A virus causes worldwide epidemics and pandemics and the investigation of memory T helper (Th) cells that help maintain serological memory following infection is important for vaccine design. In this study we investigated CD94 and NKG2 gene expression in memory CD4 T-cell clones established from the spleens of C57BL/10 (H-2(b)) and BALB/c (H-2(d)) mice infected with influenza A virus (H3N2). CD94 and NKG2A/C/E proteins form heterodimeric membrane receptors that are involved in virus recognition. CD94 and NKG2 expression have been well characterized in natural killer (NK) and cytotoxic T cells. Despite CD94 being potentially an important marker for Th1 cells involved in virus infection, however, there has been little investigation of its expression or function in the CD4 T-cell lineage and no studies have looked at in-vivo-generated Th cells or memory cells. We show in this study that in-vivo-generated CD4 Th1 cells, but not Th2 cells, exhibited full-length CD94 and NKG2A gene expression following activation with viral peptide. For NKG2A, a novel 'short' (possibly redundant) truncated isoform was detectable in a Th2 cell clone. Another member of the NK receptor family, NKG2D, but not NKG2C or E, was also differentially expressed in Th1 cells. We show here that CD94 and NKG2A may exist as multiple isoforms with the potential to distinguish helper T-cell subsets.
Requirement of bic/microRNA-155 for normal immune function.	MicroRNAs are a class of small RNAs that are increasingly being recognized as important regulators of gene expression. Although hundreds of microRNAs are present in the mammalian genome, genetic studies addressing their physiological roles are at an early stage. We have shown that mice deficient for bic/microRNA-155 are immunodeficient and display increased lung airway remodeling. We demonstrate a requirement of bic/microRNA-155 for the function of B and T lymphocytes and dendritic cells. Transcriptome analysis of bic/microRNA-155-deficient CD4+ T cells identified a wide spectrum of microRNA-155-regulated genes, including cytokines, chemokines, and transcription factors. Our work suggests that bic/microRNA-155 plays a key role in the homeostasis and function of the immune system.
Specific immune response to HBsAg is enhanced by beta-glucan oligosaccharide containing an alpha-(1-->3)-linked bond and biased towards M2/Th2.	Vaccination with Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is being used to prevent HBV infection. The fact that 10% of vaccinees fail to develop protective antibodies has fostered a large body of research for more effective vaccination strategies. Search for new adjuvant, able to selectively trigger protective antibody production, is one of the most promising approaches. The oligosaccharide beta-(1-->6)-branched beta-(1-->3) glucohexaose is the basic unit of lentinan and several other fungal beta-glucans with immunostimulatory activity. beta-glucans stimulate innate immune response mainly through interaction with myeloid cells (macrophages) and dendritic cells. In this study, the ability of synthetic beta-(1-->6)-branched beta-(1-->3) glucohexaose analogue (beta-glu6) to enhance the immune response to HBsAg has been evaluated. Administration of synthetic beta-glu6 i.p. in BALB/c mice greatly enhanced the mobilisation and maturation of macrophages and dendritic cells to co-administered HBsAg, as compared to the antigen alone. The adjuvant effect of beta-glu6 was evident in the increase of T and B cell activation in response to HBsAg, as judged by the percentage of CD69-positive CD4(+) and CD19(+) lymphocytes in the spleen. beta-glu6 could significantly enhance the number of IL-4-producing cells in response to HBsAg, while it had no effect on the number of IFN-gamma-producing lymphocytes, suggesting a Th2 bias of the immune response. The correlate of protection for HBV vaccination, i.e. the titer of HBsAg-specific antibodies, was greatly enhanced by the use of beta-glu6 as a vaccine adjuvant. The IgG1/IgG2a ratio within the anti-HBsAg antibodies was higher in the mice immunised with HBsAg plus beta-glu6 than receiving HBsAg alone or mice administered HBsAg with Freund's adjuvant, indicating a shift towards a Th2-biased anti-inflammatory protective antibody response.
Polarization and apoptosis of T cell subsets in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.	It is well known that idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an acquired organ-specific autoimmune hemorrhagic disease and dysfunctional cellular immunity is considered important in the pathophysiology of ITP, however, polarization and apoptosis profiles of T lymphocytes remain unclear completely. In this paper, we investigated the polarization of T cell subsets, the expressions of apoptotic proteins Fas/FasL on T cell subsets and the level of antiapoptotic gene bcl-2 and bax mRNA in the bcl-2 family, then discussed the role of them in ITP pathogenesis. We demonstrated that the ratios of Th1/Th2 and Tc1/Tc2 in ITP children increased obviously, the average percentages of Th1 and Th2 also increased clearly, but the average percentages of Tc1 and Tc2 did not changed. In ITP children, the expressions of Fas, FasL on Th, Th1, Th2, Tc, Tc1 and Tc2 increased significantly. The expressions of FasL on Th1 and Tc1 increased sharply vs. Fas, whereas the expressions of Fas on Th2 and Tc2 increased obviously vs. FasL. The expressions of bcl-2 mRNA in ITP children increased significantly, but the expressions of bax mRNA decreased, the ratios of bcl-2/bax mRNA were improved obviously and there were positive correlation between the ratios of Th1/Th2 (IFN-gamma(+)T/IL-4(+)T) and the ratios of bcl-2/bax mRNA. Taken together, our findings indicate that ITP is Th1 type cell predominant disease although the precise mechanisms await further functional assay. This abnormal polarization of T cell subsets might be related to the high ratios of bcl-2/bax mRNA and the abnormal expressions of Fas, FasL on T cell subsets, as can involve in ITP immunopathogenesis.
Airway epithelial STAT3 is required for allergic inflammation in a murine model of asthma.	The STAT3 transcription factor is critical for cytokine signaling and the acute phase response, but its role in allergic asthma is largely undefined. To investigate the role of STAT3 in mediating allergic inflammation, we used chemical and genetic approaches to inactivate STAT3 in the airway epithelium of mice. In a murine model of chronic asthma, we demonstrate that the administration of house dust mite (HDM) leads to robust STAT3 activation in the airway epithelium, smooth muscle, and immune cells in the lungs of C57BL/6 mice. To investigate the role of STAT3 in HDM-induced airway inflammation, a conditional knockout of STAT3 in the airway epithelium was generated, e-STAT3-/-. We determined that e-STAT3-/- mice had a significant decrease in HDM-induced airway eosinophilia, lung Th2 accumulation, and chemokines compared with wild-type animals. Importantly, the e-STAT3-/- mice had a significant decrease in airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine. The administration of two STAT kinase inhibitors diminished STAT3 activation and markedly abrogated the HDM-induced lung inflammation. These findings suggest that STAT3 acts as a novel epithelial regulator of the allergic response by altering Th2 cell recruitment and effector function, and thus, targeting this molecule may provide the basis for a novel asthma therapy.
Th1- and Th2-dependent endothelial progenitor cell recruitment and angiogenic switch in asthma.	Increased numbers of submucosal vessels are a consistent pathologic component of asthmatic airway remodeling. However, the relationship between new vessel formation and asthmatic inflammatory response is unknown. We hypothesized that angiogenesis is a primary event during the initiation of airway inflammation and is linked to the recruitment of bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPC). To test this hypothesis, circulating EPC and EPC-derived endothelial cell colony formation of individuals with asthma or allergic rhinitis and health controls was evaluated. Circulating EPC were increased in asthma, highly proliferative, and exhibited enhanced incorporation into endothelial cell tubes as compared with controls. In an acute allergen challenge murine asthma model, EPC mobilization occurred within hours of challenge and mobilized EPC were selectively recruited into the challenged lungs of sensitized animals, but not into other organs. EPC recruitment was Th1 and Th2 dependent and was temporally associated with an increased microvessel density that was noted within 48 h of allergen challenge, indicating an early switch to an angiogenic lung environment. A chronic allergen challenge model provided evidence that EPC recruitment to the lung persisted and was associated with increasing microvessel density over time. Thus, a Th1- and Th2-dependent angiogenic switch with EPC mobilization, recruitment, and increased lung vessel formation occurs early but becomes a sustained and cumulative component of the allergen-induced asthmatic response.
Cytokine production by CD4+ T cells specific for coagulation factor VIII in healthy subjects and haemophilia A patients.	Haemophilia A patients treated with human factor VIII (fVIII) may develop antibody (Ab) inhibitors to fVIII. FVIII-specific CD4(+) T cells are common in haemophilia A patients, but also in healthy subjects who do not have a sustained anti-fVIII Ab response. Here, we examined the fVIII-induced IFN gamma-, IL-4- and TGF-beta1-producing CD4(+) T blasts by culturing peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from controls and patients with recombinant fVIII. FVIII exposure significantly increased IFN gamma- and IL-4-, but not TGF-beta1-producing CD4(+) T blasts in patients with inhibitors. Patients without inhibitors had fVIII-induced IFN gamma- and TGF-beta1-, but not IL-4-producing CD4(+) T blasts. Controls did not have IL-4-producing CD4(+) T blasts. However, controls whose PMBC proliferated in response to fVIII had fVIII-induced CD4(+) T blasts that produced IFN-gamma, the number of which correlated with the intensity of the proliferative response to fVIII of their PMBC, whereas controls whose PMBC did not proliferate to fVIII had predominantly fVIII-induced CD4(+) T blasts that produced TGF-beta1. The presence in controls and patients without inhibitors of fVIII-induced IFN-gamma-producing CD4(+) T cells, but not IL-4-producing CD4(+) T cells, which are abundant in inhibitor patients, suggests a role of Th1 cells in initiating the immune response to fVIII, and of Th2 cells in the development of strong inhibitor production. The polarized high ratios of Th3/Th1 and Th3/Th2 in controls and patients without inhibitors suggest that a preponderance ofTh3 cells in the response to fVIII may help to maintain tolerance to fVIII.
Lymphocyte changes in patients with Graves's disease accompanied by hematocytopenia]	The aim of study was to investigate the lymphocyte changes in peripheral blood of patients with Graves's disease accompanied by hematocytopenia and to explore its pathogenesis. The quantity and ratio of Th(2), Th(1), CD5(+) B, Bcl-2 level in 24 Graves's disease patients with hematocytopenia were detected by FACS, and 18 adults were selected as normal controls. The results indicated that the percentages of Th(1), Th(2), ratio of Th(2)/Th(1), CD5(+) B, Bcl-2 level in peripheral blood of the patients were (0.81 +/- 0.45)%, (6.83 +/- 3.02)%, (20.55 +/- 6.15)%, (20.89 +/- 1.62)%, (80.25 +/- 15.56)%, respectively, and were higher than those of normal controls [(0.39 +/- 0.24)% (P<0.05), (0.28 +/- 0.15)% (P<0.01), (0.52 +/- 0.12)% (P<0.01), (7.89 +/- 0.38)% (P<0.05), (36.49 +/- 6.79)% (P<0.05)]. It is concluded that the pathogenesis of Graves's disease with hematocytopenia may be related to unbalance of Th(1)/Th(2), increase of Th(2) inducing over-expression of CD5(+) B and Bcl-2 on B cell.
T cell cytokine patterns in active tuberculosis patients in a northeastern area of Romania.	Developing countries like Romania have a high incidence of tuberculosis. Literature data suggest that people in these countries have an important Th2-type immune background which prevents a protective Th1 response of the host against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Our study is the first attempt in Romania to identify cytokine patterns in active tuberculosis. The study included 15 patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis and 11 healthy volunteers. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), stained with carboxyfluoresceine-diacetate-succinimidylester (CFSE), were incubated for 7 days with purified protein derivate (PPD) or with medium alone. Intracellular synthesis of IFNgamma and IL-4 in proliferated (CFSE(low)) T cells was detected by flowcytometry. The results showed that both Th1 (IFNgamma) and Th2 (IL-4) cytokines are produced in response to in vitro PPD-stimulation of PBMC from pulmonary tuberculosis patients and healthy controls. Moreover, the proportion between IFNgamma and IL-4 is tilted in favour of IL-4 in PPD-activated (CD3+ CFSE(low)) cells from healthy persons, who did not develop active tuberculosis during the two-year study time interval. This predominance of Th2 effectors points to the need to further investigate the role of IL-4 in the M. tuberculosis infection.
Interleukin-2 regulatory effect on P-selectin and interleukin-8 production in patients with chronic renal failure.	Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) show a clinical state of immunodysfunction that occurs in both humoral and cellular immunity as well as inflammatory response. In this study, we investigated the mononuclear-endothelial cells (MCs/ECs) interaction and the possible protective role of IL-2 as the main T lymphocyte activator in CRF patients. The levels of soluble P-selectin (sP-selectin) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) as the two main mediators of MCs/ECs interaction were measured in IL-2 supplemented and non-supplemented peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) supernatant of CRF patients. The obtained results were correlated with those of sex and age matched controls. Significantly higher levels of sP-selectin and IL-8 were detected in both IL-2 supplemented and non-supplemented PBMCs culture supernatant of CRF patients than controls (P = 0.000). Those levels were significantly lower in IL-2 supplemented PBMCs culture supernatant than non-supplemented ones of both CRF (P = 0.000) (for both mediators) and normal control groups (P = 0.01, P= 0.04 for sP-selectin and IL-8 respectively). The higher sP-selectin in CRF indicates impairment of MCs/ECs interaction that may be resulted from blockade of P-selectin receptors on PBMCs by P-selectin molecules shedded from ECs to plasma and bind to PBMCs in vivo. The elevated IL-8 level in PBMCs of CRF reflect the imbalance of Thl/Th2 ratio and subsequent impairment of cellular immunity in those patients. The lower level of both sP-selectin and IL-8 in IL-2 supplemented PBMCs supernatant than in non-supplemented one seemed to be due to the IL-2 induced proliferation of Th1 lymphocytes yielding newly in vitro formed T cells which do not carry P-selectin as well as relative increase of Th1/Th2 ratio in both normal and CRF groups. Thus, IL-2 may improve the MCs/ECs interaction and correct the Th1/Th2 ratio in CRF providing a novel promising therapeutic approach to improve the immuno-pathological condition of those patients.
Topical imiquimod and intralesional interleukin-2 increase activated lymphocytes and restore the Th1/Th2 balance in patients with metastatic melanoma.	Patients with metastatic skin disease in malignant melanoma are difficult to treat, with unresectable lesions proving the biggest challenge. We have recently published data showing a significant clinical response in patients with multiple in-transit melanoma metastases treated with a combination of topical imiquimod and intralesional interleukin (IL)-2. Here we report the results of immunological analysis with the aim of highlighting correlations with our clinical findings.
Exposure to environmental bacteria may have differing effects on tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6-producing capacity in infancy.	Our previous study showed an association between increased concentration of endotoxin in house dust and elevated IFN-gamma responses in neonates. The impact of other microbial agents on immune responses in infancy is poorly known.
Immunomodulatory pretreatment with Kalanchoe pinnata extract and its quercitrin flavonoid effectively protects mice against fatal anaphylactic shock.	Previously, we reported the immunosuppressive action of the aqueous extract of Kalanchoe pinnata (Kp) in mice. In the present study, we report on the protective effect of Kp in fatal anaphylactic shock, likewise a Th2-driven immunopathology, and the identification of its active component. Mice daily treated with oral Kp during hypersensitization with ovalbumin were all protected against death when challenged with the allergen, as compared with the 100% mortality in the untreated group. A single intraperitoneal dose 3 h prior to challenge was partially effective. Oral protection was accompanied by a reduced production of OVA-specific IgE antibodies, reduced eosinophilia, and impaired production of the IL-5, IL-10 and TNF-alpha cytokines. In vitro, Kp prevented antigen-induced mast cell degranulation and histamine release. Oral treatment with the quercitrin flavonoid isolated from Kp prevented fatal anaphylaxis in 75% of the animals. These findings indicate that oral treatment with Kp effectively downmodulates pro-anaphylactic inducing immune responses. Protection achieved with quercitrin, although not maximal, suggests that this flavonoid is a critical component of Kp extract against this extreme allergic reaction.
Ginger prevents Th2-mediated immune responses in a mouse model of airway inflammation.	It is well documented that compounds from rhizomes of Zingiber officinale, commonly called ginger, have anti-inflammatory properties. Here, we show that ginger can exert such functions in vivo, namely in a mouse model of Th2-mediated pulmonary inflammation. The preparation of ginger aqueous extract (Zo.Aq) was characterized by mass spectrometry as an enriched fraction of n-gingerols. Intraperitoneal injections of this extract before airway challenge of ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized mice resulted in a marked decrease in the recruitment of eosinophils to the lungs as attested by cell counts in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids and histological examination. Resolution of airway inflammation induced by Zo.Aq was accompanied by a suppression of the Th2 cell-driven response to allergen in vivo. Thus, IL-4, IL-5 and eotaxin levels in the lungs as well as specific IgE titres in serum were clearly diminished in ginger-treated mice relative to their controls after allergen sensitization and challenge. Finally, we found that [6]-gingerol, a major constituent of ginger, was sufficient to suppress eosinophilia in our model of inflammation. This is the first evidence that ginger can suppress Th2-mediated immune responses and might thus provide a possible therapeutic application in allergic asthma.
Distinct chemokine and cytokine gene expression pattern of murine dendritic cells and macrophages in response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.	In this study, the early innate cytokine and chemokine response of murine dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection was compared. The findings indicate a dissimilar gene expression pattern between the two cell types. The expression of IL-12 and IL-23, important for promoting Th1 and Th17 cells, respectively, was up-regulated only in DCs. In addition, expression of CCL1 and CCL17, which are important in recruitment of T regulatory cells, was DC-specific, as was the expression of the immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10. Macrophages, in contrast, exhibited enhanced expression for CCL2 and CXCL10, chemokines that recruit cells to sites of inflammation, and for mycobactericidal molecules NO synthase 2 and TNF. Together, the findings suggest that a component of the innate DC response is not only programmed toward Th1 priming but is also for controlling the magnitude of the Th1 response, and part of the macrophage response is intended for recruiting cells to the lung and for mycobactericidal functions.
Increased circulating paternal antigen-specific IFN-gamma- and IL-4-secreting cells during pregnancy in allergic and non-allergic women.	Allergic women have been reported to give birth to more children than non-allergic women, speculatively explained by the former's predisposition for Th2 polarization, possibly favoring pregnancy.
Cell-mediated immunity induced by chimeric tetravalent dengue vaccine in naive or flavivirus-primed subjects.	Three independent, phase 1 clinical trials were conducted in Australia and in USA to assess the safety and immunogenicity of sanofi pasteur dengue vaccine candidates. In this context, Dengue 1-4 and Yellow Fever 17D-204 (YF 17D)-specific CD4 and CD8 cellular responses induced by tetravalent chimeric dengue vaccines (CYD) were analyzed in flavivirus-naive or flavivirus-immune patients. Tetravalent CYD vaccine did not trigger detectable changes in serum pro-inflammatory cytokines, whatever the vaccinees immune status, while inducing significant YF 17D NS3-specific CD8 responses and dengue serotype-specific T helper responses. These responses were dominated by serotype 4 in naive individuals, but a booster vaccination (dose #2) performed 4 months following dose #1 broadened serotype-specific responses. A similar, broader response was seen after primary tetravalent immunization in subjects with pre-existing dengue 1 or 2 immunity caused by prior monovalent live-attenuated dengue vaccination. In all three trials, the profile of induced response was similar, whatever the subjects' immune status, i.e. an absence of Th2 response, and an IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha ratio dominated by IFN-gamma, for both CD4 and CD8 responses. Our results also showed an absence of cross-reactivity between YF 17D or Dengue NS3-specific CD8 responses, and allowed the identification of 3 new CD8 epitopes in the YF 17D NS3 antigen. These data are consistent with the previously demonstrated excellent safety of these dengue vaccines in flavivirus-naive and primed individuals.
Functional adaptation to oxidative stress by memory T cells: an analysis of the role in the cardiovascular disease process.	T cells participate in combating infection and critically determine the outcomes in any given disease process. Impaired immune response occurs in a number disease processes such as in cancer and atherosclerosis although the underlying mechanisms are still not fully understood. This article gives an up-to-date review of T cells development and functional adaptation to pathophysiological stimuli and participation in the cardiovascular disease process. In addition, we have discussed the signaling pathways controlled by the microenvironment that determine T cells function and resultant type of immune response. We have also discussed in detail how oxidative stress is a key component of the micro environmental interaction.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 differentially regulates the production of Th2 cytokines in naive vs. effector/memory CD4+ T cells.	Interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 4 is a member of the IRF family of transcription factors and plays critical roles in the development of CD4(+) T cells into Th2 and Th17 cells. Using the infection model of Nippostrongyrus brasiliensis, we have confirmed the critical roles of IRF-4 in Th2 development in vivo by using IRF-4(-/-) BALB/c mice. However, nave IRF-4(-/-)CD4(+) T cells produced Th2 cytokines, including IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10, but not IL-2 or IFN-gamma, at levels higher than wild-type BALB/c CD4(+) T cells in response to T cell receptor stimulation. In contrast, effector/memory IRF-4(-/-)CD4(+) T cells did not exhibit increased production of Th2 cytokines. Knockdown of IRF-4 expression by using small interfering RNA promoted IL-4 production in nave CD4(+) T cells but inhibited it in effector/memory CD4(+) T cells. These results indicate that IRF-4 plays differential roles in the regulation of Th2 cytokine production in nave CD4(+) T cells and effector/memory CD4(+) T cells. IRF-4 inhibits Th2 cytokine production in nave CD4(+) T cells, whereas it promotes Th2 cytokine production in effector/memory CD4(+) T cells.
Clinical improvement and normalized Th1 cytokine profile in early and long-term interferon-alpha treatment in a suspected case of hyper-IgE syndrome.	We are reporting on a 7-months-old boy with suspected hyper-IgE syndrome, presenting with a therapy resistant severe eczema and an overall reduction of in vitro cytokine production. Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment resulted in a marked and stable clinical improvement and normalization of in vitro T-cell cytokine production, indicating a valid therapeutic potential of IFN-alpha as immunomodulating drug.
Distinct regulation of IgE, IgG4 and IgA by T regulatory cells and toll-like receptors.	Allergic diseases are characterized by the activation of the immune system and formation of immunoglobulin (Ig)E antibodies against normally innocuous environmental antigens, whereas IgG4 and IgA represent noninflammatory and blocking antibody isotypes. The T helper 2 (Th2) cells induce and T regulatory (Treg) cells suppress several features of allergic inflammation. Our aim was to investigate the role of allergen-specific T regulatory type 1 (Tr1) cells and CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg cells and toll-like receptors (TLRs) on IgE, IgG4 and IgA production.
Effect of xiaoyin recipe in treatment of psoriasis patients of blood-heat syndrome type and its impact on peripheral Th1/Th2 equilibrium]	To explore the mechanism of Chinese medicinal therapy for cooling blood and removing stasis (CBRS) in treating psoriasis of blood-heat syndrome type by observing its clinical efficacy and impact on serum level of cytokines.
Analysis of lymphocyte immune abnormality in 52 cases of children idiopathic aplastic anemia]	This study was aimed to investigate the characteristics of lymphocyte immune abnormality in children idiopathic aplastic anemia (IAA) in order to explore the immune pathogenesis of childhood IAA. The phenotypes of lymphocytes, the ratios of Th1/Th2 and Tc1/Tc2, the levels of CD25(+) and CD4(+)CD25(+) T lymphocytes in peripheral blood of IAA patients were measured at the onset of disease by flow cytometry and were compared with that in normal controls. The influences of those immunological indicators on prognosis of IAA were also analyzed. The results showed that there were 40 cases of severe aplastic anemia (SAA) and 12 cases of mild aplastic anemia (MAA). The levels of CD3(+) CD8(+) T cells in SAA group and MAA group were significantly higher than those in controls (p < 0.05). The levels of CD3(+) and CD3(+) CD4(+) T cells in MAA group were lower than that in SAA group (p < 0.05), but there were no difference was compared with control group. No differences of the levels of CD3(-)CD19(+) T cells were between the both SAA and MAA groups and the control group. The levels of CD3(-)CD56(+) T cells in SAA group and MAA groups were lower significantly than that in control group. As compared to control group, the levels of Th1 and Tc1 in SAA group and MAA groups increased significantly (p < 0.05), and the ratios of Th1/Th2 and Tc1/Tc2 in SAA group and MAA groups increased significantly (p < 0.05). The level of Th2 increased in SAA group. As compared to MAA group, the levels of Th1 and Tc1 and the ratios of Th1/Th2 and Tc1/Tc2 in SAA group increased significantly (p < 0.05). The levels of CD25(+) T lymphocyte in SAA group and MAA group increased significantly (p < 0.05), and were higher than that in normal controls, but levels of CD4(+)CD25(+) T lymphocyte and ratio of CD4(+)CD25(+)/CD4(+) in SAA group and MAA group had no significant difference. It is concluded that the abnormal lymphocyte immune function exist in the onset of childhood IAA. The polarization of Th1/Th2 and Tc1/Tc2 shifts to Th1 and Tc1 cells. These changes closely relate to severity of the disease. There is high level of CD25(+) T lymphocyte in children IAA. These changes reveal that abnormality of immune function plays an important role at the onset of childhood idiopathic aplastic anemia.
Does atopy affect the radiological extent of pulmonary tuberculosis?	Th1 cytokines, IL-2 and IFN-gamma , have critical importance in the CD4 cell driven antimycobacterial activity. Th2 type immune response is a characteristic feature of atopic disorders. Th1 and Th2 cells have been reported to negatively cross-regulate each other in vitro and in experimental animals. Our aim in the present study is to determine whether the atopy affects radiological extent of pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) and disease severity.
T helper cytokine patterns: defined subsets, random expression, and external modulation.	Although T cell effector subsets, defined by cytokine patterns, have been recognized for more than 20 years, the functional cytokine expression patterns in vivo are still in considerable doubt, particularly for human T cells. At least three new subsets have been recently identified, but the committed cytokine pattern of a T cell (e.g., Th1 cells produce IL-2, interferon-gamma, and lymphotoxin) may differ from the expression pattern of one cell on one occasion, which may be a subset of its full potential. Recent advances in flow cytometry allowed detailed cytokine patterns of antigen-stimulated cells to be identified directly ex vivo. These patterns are clearly more diverse than the major subsets identified as committed phenotypes. Additional contributions to diversity may include new committed subsets, random expression of only part of the committed pattern, and modification of the expression patterns by cytokines and other mediators.
Association of T-cell reactivity with beta-cell function in recent onset type 1 diabetes patients.	The aim of the current study was to investigate whether autoantigen directed T-cell reactivity relates to beta-cell function during the first 78 weeks after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes.
Innate immunity.	Recent years have witnessed an explosion of interest in the innate immune system. Questions about how the innate immune system senses infection and empowers a protective immune response are being answered at the molecular level. These basic science discoveries are being translated into a more complete understanding of the central role innate immunity plays in the pathogenesis of many human infectious and inflammatory diseases. It is particularly exciting that we are already seeing a return on these scientific investments with the emergence of novel therapies to harness the power of the innate immune system. In this review we explore the defining characteristics of the innate immune system, and through more detailed examples, we highlight recent breakthroughs that have advanced our understanding of the role of innate immunity in human health and disease.
Clinical activity of pemphigus vulgaris relates to IgE autoantibodies against desmoglein 3.	Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is a severe autoimmune bullous skin disease and is primarily associated with IgG against desmoglein 3 (dsg3), a desmosomal adhesion protein. In light of the recent association of autoreactive T helper (Th) 2 cells with active PV, the present study sought to relate the occurrence of Th2-regulated dsg3-specific autoantibody subtypes, i.e. IgE and IgG4, in 93 well-characterized PV patients. Patients with acute onset PV (n=37) showed the highest concentrations of serum IgE and IgG4 autoantibodies, which were significantly lower in PV patients in remission (n=14). Furthermore, there was a strong correlation between dsg3-reactive IgE and IgG4 in acute onset, but not in chronic active (n=42) or remittent patients. Additionally, intercellular IgE deposits were detected in the epidermis of acute onset PV. Thus, dsg3-specific IgE and IgG4 autoantibodies are related to acute onset disease which provides additional support to the concept that PV is a Th2-driven autoimmune disorder.
New insights into innate immune mechanisms underlying allergenicity.	Allergic diseases, which have reached epidemic proportions, are caused by inappropriate immune responses to a relatively small number of environmental proteins. The molecular basis for the propensity of specific proteins to promote maladaptive, allergic responses has been difficult to define. Recent data suggest that the ability of such proteins to promote allergic responses in susceptible hosts is a function of their ability to interact with diverse pathways of innate immune recognition and activation at mucosal surfaces. This review highlights recent insights into innate immune activation by allergens--through proteolytic activity, engagement of pattern recognition receptors, molecular mimicry of TLR signaling complex molecules, lipid-binding activity, and oxidant potential--and the role of such activation in inducing allergic disease. A greater understanding of the fundamental origins of allergenicity should help define new preventive and therapeutic targets in allergic disease.
Naringenin chalcone suppresses allergic asthma by inhibiting the type-2 function of CD4 T cells.	Some polyphenols possess anti-allergic activities. Naringenin chalcone is one of the polyphenols that is present in the skin of red tomatoes. In this study, we investigated the effect of naringenin chalcone in allergic responses in vivo using an experimental mouse model system of allergic asthma.
Type 2 immune-inducing helminth vaccination maintains protective efficacy in the setting of repeated parasite exposures.	Animal studies have demonstrated that helminth vaccines which induce type 2 immune responses can be protective. To date, however, such vaccines have not been tested against repeated parasite challenges. Since repeated antigenic challenge of patients with allergic disease results in immunologic tolerance, we hypothesized that a helminth vaccine which induces type 2 immune responses may lose its protective efficacy in the setting of repeated parasite exposures (RPEs). To test this hypothesis, we examined whether RPEs induce immunological tolerance and reduce the effectiveness of a type 2 immune-inducing vaccine. BALB/c mice vaccinated against Litomosoides sigmodontis, a filarial nematode of rodents, were repeatedly exposed to irradiated larvae for 2 or 8 weeks or to non-irradiated infectious larvae for three months. Vaccination-induced parasite-specific IgE levels, parasite antigen-driven basophil interleukin 4 (IL-4) release, and Th2 skewing of the cellular immune response remained stable in the face of RPEs. Furthermore, RPEs in vaccinated mice did not augment immunoregulatory responses, as parasite antigen-driven cellular proliferation, production of IL-10, and frequencies of CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) regulatory T-cells were not altered by RPEs. Challenge infections with infectious L3-stage larvae resulted in lower worm burdens in vaccinated mice given RPEs than in vaccinated controls. These results demonstrate that vaccines which induce type 2 immune responses can maintain their efficacy in the setting of repeated parasite exposures.
Toll-like receptor 2 and facial motoneuron survival after facial nerve axotomy.	We have previously demonstrated that CD4(+) Th2 lymphocytes are required to rescue facial motoneuron (FMN) survival after facial nerve axotomy through interaction with peripheral antigen presenting cells, as well as CNS resident microglia. Furthermore, the innate immune molecule, toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), has been implicated in the development of Th2-type immune responses and can be activated by intracellular components released by dead or dying cells. The role of TLR2 in the FMN response to axotomy was explored in this study, using a model of facial nerve axotomy at the stylomastoid foramen in the mouse, in which blood-brain-barrier (BBB) permeability does not occur. After facial nerve axotomy, TLR2 mRNA was significantly upregulated in the facial motor nucleus and co-immunofluorescence localized TLR2 to CD68(+) microglia, but not GFAP(+) astrocytes. Using TLR2-deficient (TLR2(-/-)) mice, it was determined that TLR2 does not affect FMN survival levels after axotomy. These data contribute to understanding the role of innate immunity after FMN death and may be relevant to motoneuron diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Emerging functions of basophils in protective and allergic immune responses.	Basophils that were long thought to have a redundant role in mast cells in the effector response to allergens and parasites are now being recognized to have important roles in the regulation of adaptive immune responses. Recent data have revealed their role in the initiation of the T helper cell 2 (Th2)-mediated immune response. Not only do basophils guide the Th1-Th2 balance by providing an early source of crucial Th2-skewing cytokines, interleukin (IL)-4 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin, but recent findings have also illustrated their capacity to function as antigen-presenting cells. Thus, basophils activate and instruct naive CD4 T cells, and guide their development into Th2 cells. Not only do basophils directly interact with T cells, but new insights have illustrated that they may also directly guide antibody responses in both the primary and memory responses. These and other studies have illustrated the emerging role of basophils in the regulation of type 2 immunity.
Effect of diesel exhaust particles on house dust mite-induced airway eosinophilic inflammation and remodeling in mice.	Recent research has focused on the effects of ambient particulate pollution and much evidence has indicated that particulate pollution is associated with the onset of asthma and allergy; however, the effect of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) on the development of allergen-induced airway remodeling has not been fully investigated in vivo. In the present study, we examined the effects of DEP on Dermatophagoides farinae allergens (Der f)-induced asthma-like phenotypes in mice. Mice were administered i.t. 8 times with Der f. DEP were injected i.t. with Der f 4 times throughout the experiment or twice at the sensitization period. In both cases, DEP aggravated Der f-induced increases in airway responsiveness to acetylcholine, the number of eosinophils and neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), serum Der f-specific IgG1 levels, Th2 cytokines and transforming growth factor-beta1 levels in BALF, and amount of hydroxyproline in the right lungs. Furthermore, goblet cell hyperplasia and subepithelial fibrosis were also markedly aggravated. These findings indicate that DEP can potentiate airway remodeling induced by repeated allergen challenge as well as Th2-drived airway hyperresponsiveness, eosinophilic inflammation, and IgG1 production and that DEP can exhibit adjuvant activity for airway remodeling, probably due to the enhancement of allergen sensitization and/or of Th2 polarizing pathways.
The expression of IFN-gamma, IL-4, Foxp3 and perforin genes are not correlated with DNA methylation status in patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura.	We investigated the relationship between the expression of IFN-gamma, IL-4, Foxp3 and perforin gene and the methylation status of their promoters in immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) patients. Gene expression and DNA methylation were determined by quantitative PCR and bisulfite genomic sequencing, respectively. The expression of IFN-gamma was higher, while the expression of IL-4 was notably lower in ITP patients when compared with the controls. Most importantly, the Th1/Th2 (IFN-gamma/IL-4) was remarkably higher in ITP patients, showing that the ITP patients were mainly in the Th1 polarization response. Although the methylation rate of CpGs located at -409 of perforin was higher (p = 0.0376) and that of IFN-gamma were relatively higher (p = 0.0582) in ITP, we did not find the negative correlation between the expression of those genes and the methylation of their promoters.
Up-regulation of cytokines and chemokines predates the onset of rheumatoid arthritis.	To identify whether cytokines, cytokine-related factors, and chemokines are up-regulated prior to the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Mice deficient in MyD88 Develop a Th2-dominant response and severe pathology in the upper genital tract following Chlamydia muridarum infection.	MyD88, a key adaptor molecule required for many innate immunity receptor-activated signaling pathways, was evaluated in a Chlamydia muridarum urogenital tract infection model. Compared with wild-type mice, MyD88 knockout (KO) mice failed to produce significant levels of inflammatory cytokines in the genital tract during the first week of chlamydial infection. MyD88 KO mice developed a Th2-dominant whereas wild-type mice developed a Th1/Th17-dominant immune response after chlamydial infection. Despite the insufficient production of early inflammatory cytokines and lack of Th1/Th17-dominant adaptive immunity, MyD88 KO mice appeared to be as resistant to chlamydial intravaginal infection as wild-type mice based on the number of live organisms recovered from vaginal samples. However, significantly high numbers of chlamydial organisms were detected in the upper genital tract tissues of MyD88 KO mice. Consequently, MyD88 KO mice developed more severe pathology in the upper genital tract. These results together have demonstrated that MyD88-dependent signaling pathway is not only required for inflammatory cytokine production in the early phase of host response to chlamydial infection but also plays a critical role in the development of Th1/Th17 adaptive immunity, both of which may be essential for limiting ascending infection and reducing pathology of the upper genital tract by chlamydial organisms.
NIP45 controls the magnitude of the type 2 T helper cell response.	Nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT) transcription factors are key regulators of gene transcription within immune cells. The NFAT-interacting protein, (NIP45), augments NFAT-driven IL-4 expression by a mechanism that relies on arginine methylation. To establish the function of NIP45 in vivo, we generated mice with a targeted deletion of the gene encoding this cofactor. NIP45-deficient T helper cells displayed profound defects in the expression of NFAT-regulated cytokine genes, including IL-4. Whereas NIP45 deficiency does not interfere with T helper cell NFAT activation or lineage-specific transcription-factor expression, NIP45 acts as an enhancer for the assembly of protein arginine methyltransferase 1 and the protein arginine methyltransferase 1-linked histone 4 arginine 3 methylation with the IL-4 promoter. Our study reveals an essential role for NIP45 in promoting robust cytokine expression in vivo, which is required for the efficient handling of parasites. We propose that NIP45 acts as a molecular rheostat serving to amplify the type-2 immune response.
Narrative review: the role of Th2 immune pathway modulation in the treatment of severe asthma and its phenotypes.	New therapeutic approaches are needed for patients with severe asthma who are refractory to standard therapy comprising high doses of inhaled corticosteroids plus long-acting beta(2)-agonists. Current treatment guidelines for patients with severe asthma from the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program recommend the addition of oral corticosteroids, which are associated with substantial morbidity, and, for those with allergic asthma, anti-IgE. Genetic and translational studies, as well as clinical trials, suggest that in a subgroup of patients, the pathobiology of severe asthma is mediated by immune pathways driven by T-helper 2 (Th2)-type CD4(+) T cells, which produce a characteristic repertoire of interleukins (ILs), including IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13. Therefore, biological modifiers of Th2-type ILs, such as monoclonal antibodies, soluble receptors, and receptor antagonists, are a rational strategy for developing new treatment approaches but will need to be targeted to selected patients in whom the appropriate Th2 immune pathway is "active." The benefits of immune-modifier therapies targeting Th2-type cytokines, however, need to be weighed against the toxicities associated with inhibition of key biological pathways, as well as the expense of future medications. Therefore, future clinical trials need to clearly establish the efficacy and safety of biological modifiers of Th2 immune pathways before these approaches can enter routine clinical practice for the treatment of severe asthma.
Immunological influence of iodine-125 implantation in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma resection]	To investigate the effect of iodine-125 implantation on immune cell subsets and cytokine production in patients undergoing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) resection.
Understanding human-Plasmodium falciparum immune interactions uncovers the immunological role of worms.	Former studies have pointed to a monocyte-dependent effect of antibodies in protection against malaria and thereby to cytophilic antibodies IgG1 and IgG3, which trigger monocyte receptors. Field investigations have further documented that a switch from non-cytophilic to cytophilic classes of antimalarial antibodies was associated with protection. The hypothesis that the non-cytophilic isotype imbalance could be related to concomittant helminthic infections was supported by several interventions and case-control studies.
Pulmonary disorders, including vocal cord dysfunction.	The lung is a very complex immunologic organ and responds in a variety of ways to inhaled antigens, organic or inorganic materials, infectious or saprophytic agents, fumes, and irritants. There might be airways obstruction, restriction, neither, or both accompanied by inflammatory destruction of the pulmonary interstitium, alveoli, or bronchioles. This review focuses on diseases organized by their predominant immunologic responses, either innate or acquired. Pulmonary innate immune conditions include transfusion-related acute lung injury, World Trade Center cough, and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Adaptive immunity responses involve the systemic and mucosal immune systems, activated lymphocytes, cytokines, and antibodies that produce CD4(+) T(H)1 phenotypes, such as for tuberculosis or acute forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and CD4(+) T(H)2 phenotypes, such as for asthma, Churg-Strauss syndrome, and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.
FcgammaRIIb inhibits allergic lung inflammation in a murine model of allergic asthma.	Allergic asthma is characterized by airway eosinophilia, increased mucin production and allergen-specific IgE. Fc gamma receptor IIb (FcgammaRIIb), an inhibitory IgG receptor, has recently emerged as a negative regulator of allergic diseases like anaphylaxis and allergic rhinitis. However, no studies to date have evaluated its role in allergic asthma. Our main objective was to study the role of FcgammaRIIb in allergic lung inflammation. We used a murine model of allergic airway inflammation. Inflammation was quantified by BAL inflammatory cells and airway mucin production. FcgammaRIIb expression was measured by qPCR and flow cytometry and the cytokines were quantified by ELISA. Compared to wild type animals, FcgammaRIIb deficient mice mount a vigorous allergic lung inflammation characterized by increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cellularity, eosinophilia and mucin content upon ragweed extract (RWE) challenge. RWE challenge in sensitized mice upregulated FcgammaRIIb in the lungs. Disruption of IFN-gamma gene abrogated this upregulation. Treatment of nave mice with the Th1-inducing agent CpG DNA increased FcgammaRIIb expression in the lungs. Furthermore, treatment of sensitized mice with CpG DNA prior to RWE challenge induced greater upregulation of FcgammaRIIb than RWE challenge alone. These observations indicated that RWE challenge upregulated FcgammaRIIb in the lungs by IFN-gamma- and Th1-dependent mechanisms. RWE challenge upregulated FcgammaRIIb on pulmonary CD14+/MHC II+ mononuclear cells and CD11c+ cells. FcgammaRIIb deficient mice also exhibited an exaggerated RWE-specific IgE response upon sensitization when compared to wild type mice. We propose that FcgammaRIIb physiologically regulates allergic airway inflammation by two mechanisms: 1) allergen challenge mediates upregulation of FcgammaRIIb on pulmonary CD14+/MHC II+ mononuclear cells and CD11c+ cells by an IFN-gamma dependent mechanism; and 2) by attenuating the allergen specific IgE response during sensitization. Thus, stimulating FcgammaRIIb may be a therapeutic strategy in allergic airway disorders.
Intradermal cytosine-phosphate-guanosine treatment reduces lung inflammation but induces IFN--mediated airway hyperreactivity in a murine model of natural rubber latex allergy.	Asthma and other allergic diseases are continuously increasing, causing considerable economic and sociologic burden to society. The hygiene hypothesis proposes that lack of microbial T helper (Th) 1-like stimulation during early childhood leads to increased Th2-driven allergic disorders later in life. Immunostimulatory cytosine-phosphate-guanosine (CpG)-oligodeoxynucleotide motifs are candidate molecules for immunotherapeutic studies, as they have been shown to shift the Th2 response toward the Th1 direction and reduce allergic symptoms. Using natural rubber latex (NRL)-induced murine model of asthma, we demonstrated that intradermal CpG administration with allergen reduced pulmonary eosinophilia, mucus production, and Th2-type cytokines, but unexpectedly induced airway hyperreactivity (AHR) to inhaled methacholine, one of the hallmarks of asthma. We found that induction in AHR was dependent on STAT4, but independent of STAT6 signaling. CpG treatment increased production of IFN- in the airways and shifted the ratio of CD4(+):CD8(+) T cells toward CD8(+) dominance. By blocking soluble IFN- with neutralizing antibody, AHR diminished and the CD4(+):CD8(+) ratio returned to CD4(+) dominance. These results indicate that increased production of IFN- in the lungs may lead to severe side effects, such as enhancement of bronchial hyperreactivity to inhaled allergen. This finding should be taken into consideration when planning prophylaxis treatment of asthma with intradermal CpG injections.
Th1 and th2 cytokine expression in nasopharyngeal secretions during acute bronchiolitis in children younger than two years old.	We characterised the T helper cytokine profiles on the surface of nasal mucosa of children with acute bronchiolitis caused by Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Parainfluenza Virus, Influenza Virus, Adenovirus, or without any viral identification, in order to examine whether these viral types modified cytokine responses. As an additional objective we sought to determine if T helper polarisation was associated with other demographic and environmental factors.
Potent antirheumatic activity of a new DNA vaccine targeted to B7-2/CD28 costimulatory signaling pathway in autoimmune arthritis.	Rheumatoid arthritis is a proinflammatory autoimmune disease attributed to failure of both CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T (Tr) and CD8(+)CD28(-) suppressor T (Ts) cells to control autoreactive CD4(+)CD28(+) Th1 (Th1) and autoantibody-producing B cells. Here we show a single intramuscular injection of our novel targeted DNA vaccine encoding Pseudomonas exotoxin A and costimulatory molecule B7-2 without autoantigens in a collagen-induced arthritis model simultaneously increased Tr and Ts cells and selectively decreased autoreactive Th1 cells. The vaccine induced a shift from Th1 to Th2 and Th3 cellular and cytokine profiles and a decrease in CD4(+)/CD8(+) cell ratios. Importantly, the vaccine showed potent antirheumatic activity by clinical and other examinations such as X-ray, histopathology, and anti-type II collagen IgG levels and was comparable to methotrexate, the current "gold standard" treatment. As an effective stimulator of both Tr and Ts cells and a specific suppressor of autoreactive Th1 cells, this vaccine is a promising therapeutic approach for rheumatoid arthritis.
Neonatal colonization of mice with Lactobacillus plantarum producing the aeroallergen Bet v 1 biases towards Th1 and T-regulatory responses upon systemic sensitization.	The use of recombinant lactic acid bacteria (LAB) as vehicles for mucosal delivery of recombinant allergens is an attractive concept for antigen-defined allergy prevention/treatment. Interventions with LAB are of increasing interest early in life when immune programming is initiated. Here, we investigated the effect of neonatal colonization with a recombinant LAB producing the major birch pollen allergen Bet v 1 in a murine model of type I allergy.
Ascaris lumbricoides pseudocoelomic body fluid induces a partially activated dendritic cell phenotype with Th2 promoting ability in vivo.	Dendritic cells (DCs) matured with helminth-derived molecules that promote Th2 immune responses do not follow conventional definitions of DC maturation processes. While a number of models of DC maturation by Th2 stimuli are postulated, further studies are required if we are to clearly define DC maturation processes that lead to Th2 immune responses. In this study, we examine the interaction of Th2-inducing molecules from the parasitic helminth Ascaris lumbricoides with the maturation processes and function of DCs. Here we show that murine bone marrow-derived DCs are partially matured by A. lumbricoides pseudocoelomic body fluid (ABF) as characterised by the production of IL-6, IL-12p40 and macrophage inflammatory protein 2 (MIP-2) but no enhanced expression of cluster of differentiation (CD)-14, T-cell co-stimulatory markers CD80, CD86, CD40, OX40L and major histocompatibility complex class II was observed. Despite these phenotypic characteristics, ABF-stimulated DCs displayed the functional hallmarks of fully matured cells, enhancing DC phagocytosis and promoting Th2-type responses in skin-draining lymph node cells in vivo. ABF activated Th2-associated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and nuclear factor-kB intracellular signalling pathways independently of toll-like receptor 4. Taken together, we believe this is the first paper to demonstrate A. lumbricoides murine DC-Th cell-driven responses shedding further light on DC maturation processes by helminth antigens.
A novel sarsasapogenin glycoside from Asparagus racemosus elicits protective immune responses against HBsAg.	The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the adjuvant potential of a novel sarsasapogenin glycoside (immunoside) isolated from Asparagus racemosus in combination with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). Various in vitro and animal derived protocols were used to determine the response of immunoside adjuvanted with HBsAg and the results were compared with alum adjuvanted with HBsAg. Several biomarkers such as antibody titre (IgG, IgG1/IgG2a) were measured in mice sera. Cell proliferation, cytokines (IL-2, IFN- and IL-4), and lymphocyte sub-populations (CD4/CD8, CD3 and CD19) were determined in splenocytes from mice administered subcutaneously with test substances. In these cells CD4/CD8 derived IFN- release was also determined. Macrophage preparations were used for the determination of IL-12, IFN- and nitrite content. Seroconversion potential was compared with a standard vaccine. Acute safety evaluation of immunoside was done in mice. Effect of immunoside on red blood cell haemolysis was determined. The results have suggested that immunoside potentially enhanced anti-HBsAg immune response via augmenting Th1/Th2 response in a dose dependent manner.
Recent thymic emigrants are biased against the T-helper type 1 and toward the T-helper type 2 effector lineage.	After intrathymic development, T cells exit the thymus and join the peripheral T-cell pool. Such recent thymic emigrants (RTEs) undergo both phenotypic and functional maturation during the first 3 weeks they reside in the periphery. Using a well-controlled in vitro polarization scheme, we now show that CD4(+) RTEs are defective in T-helper (Th) type 0 (Th0), Th1, Th17, and regulatory T-cell lineage commitment, with dampened cytokine production and transcription factor expression. In contrast, CD4(+) RTES are biased toward the Th2 lineage both in vitro and in vivo, with more robust interleukin-4, interleukin-5, and interleukin-13 production than their mature naive counterparts. Coculture experiments demonstrate that mature naive T cells influence neighboring RTEs in their Th responses. In adoptive hosts, CD4(+) RTEs drive production of the Th2-associated antibody isotype immunoglobulin G1 and mediate airway inflammatory disease. This bias in RTEs likely results from dampened negative regulation of the Th2 lineage by diminished levels of T-bet, a key Th1 transcription factor. CD4(+) RTEs thus represent a transitional population with a distinct interpretation of, and response to, immunologic cues. These characteristics may be beneficial during the postthymic maturation period by leading to the avoidance of inappropriate immune responses, particularly in lymphopenic neonates and adults.
Langerin+ dendritic cells are responsible for LPS-induced reactivation of allergen-specific Th2 responses in postasthmatic mice.	Allergic asthma is a T cell-dependent inflammatory lung disease that results from complex interactions between genetic predisposition and environmental factors, including exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In this study, we have shown that airway LPS exposure was sufficient to induce airway hyperreactivity (AHR) and eosinophil recruitment in mice that had previously experienced an acute episode of allergic asthma. LPS-induced disease reactivation depended on the activation of allergen-specific CD4(+) T cells by a subset of lung langerin(+) dendritic cells (DCs) that retained the allergen. Upon LPS exposure, migration of langerin(+) DCs from lungs to draining lymph nodes increased and LPS-exposed langerin(+) DCs instructed CD4(+) T cells toward a T helper (Th) 2 response. Selective depletion of langerin(+) DCs prevented LPS-induced eosinophil recruitment and T-cell activation, further demonstrating a critical role for langerin(+) DCs in disease reactivation. This finding provides a possible explanation for the subclinical worsening of asthmatics following exposure to low-dose LPS.
Role of the Mac-1 and VLA-4 integrins, and concomitant Th2-cytokine production, in nitric oxide modulated eosinophil migration from bone marrow to lungs in allergic mice.	Although numerous studies demonstrate the participation of nitric oxide (NO) in various inflammatory diseases, the precise function of NO in allergic asthma remains unclear. We investigated whether iNOS inhibition could interfere with the kinetics of VLA-4 and Mac-1 expression and adhesion properties of bone marrow and peripheral blood eosinophils of sensitized mice after antigen exposure. Treatment of allergic mice with 1400 W (iNOS inhibitor) increased the adhesion of bone marrow eosinophils to ICAM-1, but not blood eosinophils, at 24h and 48 h after OVA-challenge. Conversely, adhesion of blood eosinophils from 1400 W-treated mice to VCAM-1 diminished at 24h and was almost completely blocked at 48 h. 1400 W did not induce any change in the adhesion of bone marrow eosinophils to VCAM-1, at 24h, but cells collected 48 h after challenge showed significantly lower adherence. Flow cytometry demonstrated that 1400 W resulted in a significantly increased Mac-1 expression on bone marrow eosinophils at 24h, as compared to control mice. However, at 24h, 1400 W significantly decreased Mac-1 and VLA-4 expressions on blood eosinophils. At 48 h, the expressions of both Mac-1 and VLA-4 returned to previous levels. Results show a temporal effect of iNOS upon Mac-1 expression and function, the chief adhesion molecule involved in the eosinophil efflux from the bone marrow at 24h. In contrast, Mac-1 and VLA-4 were involved in eosinophil mobilization from blood to lungs at 48 h after antigen challenge. Data suggest an important role of the Mac-1 and VLA-4 in the iNOS-modulated migration of eosinophils to the lungs of allergic mice.
Mast cells play a key role in Th2 cytokine-dependent asthma model through production of adhesion molecules by liberation of TNF-.	Mast cells are well recognized as key cells in allergic reactions, such as asthma and allergic airway diseases. However, the effects of mast cells and TNF- on T-helper type 2 (Th2) cytokine-dependent asthma are not clearly understood. Therefore, an aim of this study was to investigate the role of mast cells on Th2 cytokine-dependent airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation. We used genetically mast cell-deficient WBB6F1/J-Kitw/Kitw-v (W/Wv), congenic normal WBB6F1/J-Kit+/Kit+ (+/+), and mast cell-reconstituted W/Wv mouse models of allergic asthma to investigate the role of mast cells in Th2 cytokine-dependent asthma induced by ovalbumin (OVA). And we investigated whether the intratracheal injection of TNF- directly induce the expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in W/Wv mice. This study, with OVA-sensitized and OVA-challenged mice, revealed the following typical histopathologic features of allergic diseases: increased inflammatory cells of the airway, airway hyperresponsiveness, and increased levels of TNF-, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, and vascular cellular adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1. However, the histopathologic features and levels of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 proteins in W/Wv mice after OVA challenges were significantly inhibited. Moreover, mast cell-reconstituted W/Wv mice showed restoration of histopathologic features and recovery of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 protein levels that were similar to those found in +/+ mice. Intratracheal administration of TNF- resulted in increased ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 protein levels in W/Wv mice. These results suggest that mast cells play a key role in a Th2 cytokine-dependent asthma model through production of adhesion molecules, including ICAM-1 and VCAM-1, by liberation of TNF-.
Gene expression patterns of Th2 inflammation and intercellular communication in asthmatic airways.	Asthma is canonically thought of as a disorder of excessive Th2-driven inflammation in the airway, although recent studies have described heterogeneity with respect to asthma pathophysiology. We have previously described distinct phenotypes of asthma based on the presence or absence of a three-gene "Th2 signature" in bronchial epithelium, which differ in terms of eosinophilic inflammation, mucin composition, subepithelial fibrosis, and corticosteroid responsiveness. In the present analysis, we sought to describe Th2 inflammation in human asthmatic airways quantitatively with respect to known mediators of inflammation and intercellular communication. Using whole-genome microarray and quantitative real-time PCR analysis of endobronchial biopsies from 27 mild-to-moderate asthmatics and 13 healthy controls with associated clinical and demographic data, we found that asthmatic Th2 inflammation is expressed over a variable continuum, correlating significantly with local and systemic measures of allergy and eosinophilia. We evaluated a composite metric describing 79 coexpressed genes associated with Th2 inflammation against the biological space comprising cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors, identifying distinctive patterns of inflammatory mediators as well as Wnt, TGF-, and platelet-derived growth factor family members. This integrated description of the factors regulating inflammation, cell migration, and tissue remodeling in asthmatic airways has important consequences for the pathophysiological and clinical impacts of emerging asthma therapeutics targeting Th2 inflammation.
Attenuated expression of tenascin-C in ovalbumin-challenged STAT4-/- mice.	Asthma leads to structural changes in the airways, including the modification of extracellular matrix proteins such as tenascin-C. The role of tenascin-C is unclear, but it might act as an early initiator of airway wall remodelling, as its expression is increased in the mouse and human airways during allergic inflammation. In this study, we examined whether Th1 or Th2 cells are important regulators of tenascin-C in experimental allergic asthma utilizing mice with impaired Th1 (STAT4-/-) or Th2 (STAT6-/-) immunity.
T-helper cell type 2 (Th2) memory T cell-potentiating cytokine IL-25 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in asthma.	IL-25 (IL-17E) is a T-helper cell type 2 (Th2) cytokine best described as a potentiator of Th2 memory responses. Reports of expression of its receptor, IL-25R, on airways structural cells suggest a wider role for IL-25 in remodeling. We hypothesized that IL-25 stimulates local angiogenesis in the asthmatic bronchial mucosa. Immunoreactive IL-25(+), IL-25R(+), and CD31(+) (endothelial) cells in sections of bronchial biopsies from asthmatics and controls were detected by immunohistochemistry. The effect of IL-25 on angiogenesis was examined using an in vitro assay. Real-time PCR was used to detect expression of IL-25R and VEGF mRNA in cultured human vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC), and a cell proliferation kit (WST-8) was used to measure the effect of IL-25 on HUVEC proliferation. Immunostaining showed that IL-25(+), IL-25R(+), and CD31(+)/IL-25R(+) cells were significantly elevated in the bronchial mucosa of asthmatics compared with controls (P < 0.003). In asthmatics, the numbers of IL-25(+) cells correlated inversely with the forced expiratory volume in 1 s (r = -0.639; P = 0.01). In vitro, HUVEC constitutively expressed IL-25R, which was up-regulated further by TNF-. IL-25 and TNF- also increased expression of VEGF and VEGF receptors. IL-25 increased HUVEC proliferation and the number, length, and area of microvessel structures in a concentration-dependent manner in vitro. VEGF blockade, the PI3K-specific inhibitor LY294002, and the MAPK/ERK1/2 (MEK1/2)-specific inhibitor U0126 all markedly attenuated IL-25-induced angiogenesis, and the inhibitors also reduced IL-25-induced proliferation and VEGF expression. Our findings suggest that IL-25 is elevated in asthma and contributes to angiogenesis, at least partly by increasing endothelial cell VEGF/VEGF receptor expression through PI3K/Akt and Erk/MAPK pathways.
Human blood CXCR5(+)CD4(+) T cells are counterparts of T follicular cells and contain specific subsets that differentially support antibody secretion.	Although a fraction of human blood memory CD4(+) T cells expresses chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 5 (CXCR5), their relationship to T follicular helper (Tfh) cells is not well established. Here we show that human blood CXCR5(+)CD4(+) T cells share functional properties with Tfh cells and appear to represent their circulating memory compartment. Blood CXCR5(+)CD4(+) T cells comprised three subsets: T helper 1 (Th1), Th2, and Th17 cells. Th2 and Th17 cells within CXCR5(+), but not within CXCR5(-), compartment efficiently induced naive B cells to produce immunoglobulins via interleukin-21 (IL-21). In contrast, Th1 cells from both CXCR5(+) and CXCR5(-) compartments lacked the capacity to help B cells. Patients with juvenile dermatomyositis, a systemic autoimmune disease, displayed a profound skewing of blood CXCR5(+) Th cell subsets toward Th2 and Th17 cells. Importantly, the skewing of subsets correlated with disease activity and frequency of blood plasmablasts. Collectively, our study suggests that an altered balance of Tfh cell subsets contributes to human autoimmunity.
The transcription factor STAT3 is required for T helper 2 cell development.	Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) family members direct the differentiation of T helper cells, with specific STAT proteins promoting distinct effector subsets. STAT6 is required for the development of T helper 2 (Th2) cells, whereas STAT3 promotes differentiation of Th17 and follicular helper Tcell subsets. We demonstrated that STAT3 was also activated during Th2 cell development and was required for the expression of Th2 cell-associated cytokines and transcription factors. STAT3 bound directly to Th2 cell-associated gene loci and was required for the ability of STAT6 to bind target genes. Invivo, STAT3 deficiency in Tcells eliminated the allergic inflammation in mice sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin or transgenic for constitutively active STAT6. Thus, STAT3 cooperates with STAT6 in promoting Th2 cell development. These results demonstrate that differentiating T helper cellsintegrate multiple STAT protein signals during Th2cell development.
Shb deficient mice display an augmented TH2 response in peripheral CD4+ T cells.	Shb, a ubiquitously expressed Src homology 2 domain-containing adaptor protein has previously been implicated in the signaling of various tyrosine kinase receptors including the TCR. Shb associates with SLP76, LAT and Vav, all important components in the signaling cascade governing T cell function and development. A Shb knockout mouse was recently generated and the aim of the current study was to address the importance of Shb deficiency on T cell development and function.
Adjuvant effect of liposome in chicken result from induction of nitric oxide.	Intranasal delivery of liposome-encapsulated inactivated Newcastle Disease virus (NDV) is known to be an effective vaccine for inducing immunity in the respiratory tract from our previous reports. Four-week-old specific pathogen-free chickens were intranasally immunized with NDV entrapped in phosphatidylcholine-liposomes (PC-Lip). The mucosal levels of anti-NDV s-immunoglobulin A (IgA), serum IgG, a high hemagglutination inhibition titer (1:640), and the high survival rate with the PC-Lip vaccine were comparable to those of our previous report. The immune mechanisms of the PC-Lip adjuvant were determined by in vitro cellular experiments using the NO production of chicken spleen macrophages. The most important finding of this study was proving that macrophages were stimulated by PC-Lip via the extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and nuclear factor (NF)-B activation pathways. This finding may be useful for developing potent mucosal vaccine delivery systems in the future.
Thymic stromal lymphopoietin interferes with airway tolerance by suppressing the generation of antigen-specific regulatory T cells.	Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is an essential cytokine for the initiation and development of allergic inflammation. In this study, we have investigated the role of TSLP in the breakdown of immune tolerance and generation of inducible regulatory T cells (iTregs). Our results demonstrated that TSLP diverted airway tolerance against OVA to Th2 sensitization and inhibited the generation of OVA-specific iTregs. TSLP exerted a direct inhibitory effect on both human and mouse iTreg development in vitro. Low doses of TSLP were capable of inhibiting iTreg induction without significantly promoting Th2 development, indicating that these two functions of TSLP are separable. Moreover, the TSLP-mediated inhibition of iTreg generation was only partially dependent on IL-4 and Stat6, and was effective when TSLP was present for the first 24 h of T cell activation. These results define a novel role for TSLP in regulating the balance of airway tolerance and allergic inflammation.
Regulatory T cells more effectively suppress Th1-induced airway inflammation compared with Th2.	Asthma is a syndrome with different inflammatory phenotypes. Animal models have shown that, after sensitization and allergen challenge, Th2 and Th1 cells contribute to the development of allergic airway disease. We have previously demonstrated that naturally occurring regulatory T cells (nTregs) can only marginally suppress Th2-induced airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness. In this study, we investigated nTreg-mediated suppression of Th2-induced and Th1-induced acute allergic airway disease. We demonstrate in vivo that nTregs exert their suppressive potency via cAMP transfer on Th2- and Th1-induced airway disease. A comparison of both phenotypes revealed that, despite similar cAMP transfers, Th1-driven airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation are more susceptible to nTreg-dependent suppression, suggesting that potential nTreg-based therapeutic strategies might be more effective in patients with predominantly neutrophilic airway inflammation based on deregulated Th1 response.
STAT6 expression in multiple cell types mediates the cooperative development of allergic airway disease.	Th2 cells induce asthma through the secretion of cytokines. Two such cytokines, IL-4 and IL-13, are critical mediators of many features of this disease. They both share a common receptor subunit, IL-4R, and signal through the STAT6 pathway. STAT6(-/-) mice have impaired Th2 differentiation and reduced airway response to allergen. Transferred Th2 cells were not able to elicit eosinophilia in response to OVA in STAT6(-/-) mice. To clarify the role of STAT6 in allergic airway inflammation, we generated mouse bone marrow (BM) chimeras. We observed little to no eosinophilia in OVA-treated STAT6(-/-) mice even when STAT6(+/+) BM or Th2 cells were provided. However, when Th2 cells were transferred to STAT6Rag2(-/-) mice, we observed an eosinophilic response to OVA. Nevertheless, the expression of STAT6 on either BM-derived cells or lung resident cells enhanced the severity of OVA-induced eosinophilia. Moreover, when both the BM donor and recipient lacked lymphocytes, transferred Th2 cells were sufficient to induce the level of eosinophilia comparable with that of wild-type (WT) mice. The expression of STAT6 in BM-derived cells was more critical for the enhanced eosinophilic response. Furthermore, we found a significantly higher number of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T cells (regulatory T cells [Tregs]) in PBS- and OVA-treated STAT6(-/-) mouse lungs compared with that in WT animals suggesting that STAT6 limits both naturally occurring and Ag-induced Tregs. Tregs obtained from either WT or STAT6(-/-) mice were equally efficient in suppressing CD4(+) T cell proliferation in vitro. Taken together, our studies demonstrate multiple STAT6-dependent and -independent features of allergic inflammation, which may impact treatments targeting STAT6.
Transplantation of CTLA4Ig gene-transduced adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells reduces inflammatory immune response and improves Th1/Th2 balance in experimental autoimmune thyroiditis.	Autoimmune thyroiditis is one of common organ-specific autoimmune disease. The aim of this study was to observe the effect of adipose tissue derived mesenchymal stem cells (ATMSC) and CTLA4Ig gene-transduced ATMSC on autoimmune thyroiditis.
Active immunization using a single dose immunotherapeutic abates established EAE via IL-10 and regulatory T cells.	Stimulation of Ag-specific inducible Treg can enhance resolution of autoimmune disease. Conventional methods to induce Treg often require induction of autoimmune disease or subjection to infection. Reovirus adhesin, protein 1 (p1), can successfully facilitate tolerance when fused to a tolerogen. We tested whether myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) fused to p1 (MOG-p1) can stimulate Ag-specific Treg. We show that C57BL/6 mice treated nasally with MOG-p1 fail to induce MOG-specific Abs and delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses and resist EAE. Such resistance was attributed to stimulation of Foxp3(+) Treg, as well as Th2 cells. MOG-p1's protective capacity was abrogated in IL-10(-/-) mice, but restored when adoptively transferred with MOG-p1-induced Treg. As a therapeutic, MOG-p1 diminished EAE within 24h of nasal application, unlike recombinant MOG (rMOG), p1, or p1+rMOG, implicating the importance of Ag specificity by p1-based therapeutics. MOG-p1-treated mice showed elevated IL-4, IL-10, and IL-28 production by CD4(+) T cells, unlike rMOG treated or control mice that produced elevated IFN- or IL-17, respectively. These data show the feasibility of using p1 as a tolerogen platform for Ag-specific tolerance induction and highlight its potential use as an immunotherapeutic for autoimmunity.
Genetic controls of Th17 cell differentiation and plasticity.	CD4+ T lymphocytes play a major role in regulation of adaptive immunity. Upon activation, nave T cells differentiate into different functional subsets. In addition to the classical Th1 and Th2 cells, several novel effector T cell subsets have been recently identified, including Th17 cells. There has been rapid progress in characterizing the development and function of Th17 cells. Here I summarize and discuss on the genetic controls of their differentiation and emerging evidence on their plasticity. This information may benefit understanding and treating immune diseases.
New insights into basophil biology: initiators, regulators, and effectors of type 2 inflammation.	Recent studies indicate that basophils perform essential functions in multiple models of Th2 cytokine-dependent immunity and inflammation. In addition to their role as late phase effector cells, basophil populations can express MHC class II and costimulatory molecules, migrate into draining lymph nodes, present antigen to naive CD4(+) T cells, and promote Th2 cell differentiation. In this context, basophils have been shown to contribute to the induction and propagation of Th2 cytokine responses following exposure to some helminth parasites or allergens. In this review, we discuss recent studies that provide new insights into basophil development, regulation, and effector function. In addition, we discuss the ability of basophils to act both independently and cooperatively with dendritic cells to support Th2 cytokine-mediated inflammation.
Altered T-cell receptor signaling in the pathogenesis of allergic disease.	Mounting evidence from animal models has demonstrated that alterations in T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling alone can lead to dramatically skewed differentiation of naive T cells into T(H)2 cells, to T(H)2 effector functions, and to T(H)2-related diseases. There is significant potential relevance of these observations to human disease. Specifically, a number of immunodeficiencies associated with atopic disease might have atopy as a manifestation because of aberrant TCR signaling. It is therefore important to attempt to identify a role for defects in TCR signaling in the pathogenesis of common atopic diseases.
Nuocytes and beyond: new insights into helminth expulsion.	T helper 2 (Th2) responses, characterized by the expression of the type-2 cytokines interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, IL-9 and IL-13, are essential for the control of parasitic helminth infections and also drive the pathogenesis of allergy and asthma. Such responses are initiated, maintained and regulated, in part, by an array of innate effector cells and cytokines. However, relatively little is known about how the initiation of type-2 immune responses occurs in vivo. The recent discovery, using helminth models, of several novel innate immune cells capable of shaping type-2 immune responses allows us to reflect on the progress made in this area. It also affords us the opportunity to highlight the diversity of immune responses that can be driven by innate cells responding rapidly to early cytokine cues.
Fibrosis is regulated by Th2 and Th17 responses and by dynamic interactions between fibroblasts and macrophages.	Dysregulated wound healing leads to fibrosis, whereby fibroblasts synthesize excess extracellular matrix and scarring impairs proper organ function. Although fibrotic diseases arise from diverse causes and display heterogeneous features, fibrosis commonly associates with chronic inflammation. Recent discoveries reinforce the idea that communication between fibroblasts, macrophages, and CD4 T cells integrates the processes of wound healing and host defense. Signals between macrophages and fibroblasts can exacerbate, suppress, or reverse fibrosis. Fibroblasts and macrophages are activated by T cells, but their activation also engages negative feedback loops that reduce fibrosis by restraining the immune response, particularly when the Th2 cytokine IL-13 contributes to pathology. Thus the interactions among fibroblasts, macrophages, and CD4 T cells likely play general and critical roles in initiating, perpetuating, and resolving fibrosis in both experimental and clinical conditions.
Dual Role of IL-22 in allergic airway inflammation and its cross-talk with IL-17A.	IL-22 has both proinflammatory and antiinflammatory properties. Its role in allergic lung inflammation has not been explored.
Early human pregnancy serum cytokine levels predict autoimmunity in offspring.	It is generally believed that pregnancy is mediated by a Th2 response, which includes cytokines that promote placental growth and are involved in inducing tolerance to the foetus. If the balance between Th1/and Th2-mediated cytokines is disrupted, systemic and local changes could predispose the foetus to future disease. Therefore, a shift in the Th1/Th2 balance during pregnancy, possibly caused by underlying environmental factors, could be associated with post-partum autoimmune disease in the offspring. Based on this presumption, we used celiac disease as a model to investigate whether autoimmunity is triggered in the foetus during early pregnancy, observed as changes in the mother's cytokine profile. Ten cytokines were measured by electro-chemi-luminescent multiplex ELISA in serum samples obtained from mothers during early pregnancy. Cases included women with children who had developed verified celiac disease before the age of 5, who were compared with other women as matched controls. We observed that 7 out of 10 cytokine levels were significantly increased in our case mothers when compared to controls. Five of these belonged to what is generally known as a Th1-mediated response (TNF, IFN, IL-2, IL-1 and IL-12) and two were Th2 cytokines (IL-13 and IL-10). However, the IL-10 cytokine is known to have features from both arms of the immune system. These results were confirmed in a logistic regression model where five out of the initial seven cytokines remained. This study suggests that increase in Th1 serum cytokines may be associated with celiac disease in offspring.
Decreased T-cell receptor signaling through CARD11 differentially compromises forkhead box protein 3-positive regulatory versus T(H)2 effector cells to cause allergy.	Allergy, the most common disease of immune dysregulation, has a substantial genetic component that is poorly understood. Although complete disruption of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling causes profound immunodeficiency, little is known about the consequences of inherited genetic variants that cause partial quantitative decreases in particular TCR-signaling pathways, despite their potential to dysregulate immune responses and cause immunopathology.
Schistosoma mansoni antigen Sm-p80: Prophylactic efficacy of a vaccine formulated in human approved plasmid vector and adjuvant (VR 1020 and alum).	Schistosomiasis is an important parasitic disease. Consensus is developing now that ideal control methods of the disease should be based on an integrated approach incorporating drug treatment, sanitation improvement, education, and an effective vaccine. With regards to the vaccine development, Sm-p80 has been shown to be a promising and strong immunogenic vaccine candidate. In the present study, Sm-p80-based vaccine formulated in alum was tested for its prophylactic efficacy in a mouse model. It was observed that vaccination using heterologous prime boost (DNA prime followed by boost with protein formulated in alum) and homologous prime boost (both prime and boost with protein formulated in alum) approaches, resulted in 61% and 55% reduction in worm burden, respectively. The protection was directly correlated with the induction of high titers of antibody responses that mainly included IgG, its isotypes, and IgM. In addition, both of the immunization approaches triggered a mixed Th1 and Th2 type response. Some involvement of Th17 specific immune response was also detected as indicated by the up-regulation of relevant cytokines. These results reinforce the potential of Sm-p80 as a viable vaccine candidate.
Effect of nanoparticle coating on the immunogenicity of plasmid DNA vaccine encoding P. yoelii MSP-1 C-terminal.	In order to assess a new strategy for DNA vaccine formulation and delivery, plasmid encoding Plasmodium yoelii MSP-1 C-terminal was formulated with newly designed nanoparticle-an anionic ternary complex of polyethylenimine and -polyglutamic acid (pVAX-MSP-1/PEI/-PGA), and intravenously administered to C57BL/6 mice in four different doses, three times at 3-week interval. Antibody response as determined by ELISA, IFA and Western blot, was dose-dependent and subsequent challenge with 10(5)P. yoelii-infected red blood cells revealed 33-60% survival in repeated experiments at a dose of 80 g pDNA/mouse. IgG subtypes and cytokine levels in the serum and culture supernatants of stimulated spleen cells were also measured. Antigen-specific IgG response provoked by the DNA vaccination was dominated by IgG1 and IgG2b. Although the elevation of IL-12p40 and IFN- was marginal (P0.354) in the coated group, interleukin-4 levels were significantly higher (P0.013) in the coated group than in the naked or control group, suggesting a predominant Th2-type CD4(+) T cell response. These results therefore, overall indicate the possibility of selection and optimization of DNA vaccine formulation for intravenous delivery and may be useful in designing a nanoparticle-coated DNA vaccine that could optimally elicit a desired antibody response for various disease conditions.
Effect of cytokine interplay on macrophage polarization during chronic pulmonary infection with Cryptococcus neoformans.	The immune response to Cryptococcus neoformans following pulmonary infection of C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice results in the development of persistent infection with characteristics of allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis (ABPM). To further clarify the role of Th1/Th2 polarizing cytokines in this model, we performed kinetic analysis of cytokine responses and compared cytokine profiles, pathologies, and macrophage (Mac) polarization status in C. neoformans-infected WT, interleukin-4-deficient (IL-4(-/-)), and gamma interferon-deficient (IFN-(-/-)) C57BL/6 mice. Results show that cytokine expression in the infected WT mice is not permanently Th2 biased but changes dynamically over time. Using multiple Mac activation markers, we further demonstrate that IL-4 and IFN- regulate the polarization state of Macs in this model. A higher IL-4/IFN- ratio leads to the development of alternatively activated Macs (aaMacs), whereas a higher IFN-/IL-4 ratio leads to the generation of classically activated Macs (caMacs). WT mice that coexpress IL-4 and IFN- during fungal infection concurrently display both types of Mac polarization markers. Concurrent stimulation of Macs with IFN- and IL-4 results in an upregulation of both sets of markers within the same cells, i.e., formation of an intermediate aaMac/caMac phenotype. These cells express both inducible nitric oxide synthase (important for clearance) and arginase (associated with chronic/progressive infection). Together, our data demonstrate that the interplay between Th1 and Th2 cytokines supports chronic infection, chronic inflammation, and the development of ABPM pathology in C. neoformans-infected lungs. This cytokine interplay modulates Mac differentiation, including generation of an intermediate caMac/aaMac phenotype, which in turn may support chronic "steady-state" fungal infection and the resultant ABPM pathology.
Endogenous IL-33 enhances Th2 cytokine production and T-cell responses during allergic airway inflammation.	IL-33 is an IL-1-related cytokine which has been implicated in T(h)2-associated biology and allergic diseases in humans and mice. IL-33 stimulates T(h)2 cells, mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, iNKT cells and circulating CD34(+) stem cells to proliferate and produce pro-allergic cytokines such as IL-5 and IL-13. IL-33 mediates its cytokine effects through a receptor consisting of ST2 and IL-1RAcP. Whereas IL-1RAcP is ubiquitously expressed, ST2 expression is cell-type restricted and determines responsiveness to IL-33. Studies employing ST2-deficient mice have reported variable results on the role of this receptor, and consequently IL-33, with regards to allergic lung inflammation. In this study, we demonstrate that IL-33 is important for allergic lung inflammation. Intra-nasal administration of IL-33 triggered an immediate allergic response in the airways, and more importantly, we show that endogenous IL-33 contributes to airway inflammation and peripheral antigen-specific responses in ovalbumin-induced acute allergic lung inflammation using IL-33-deficient mice. Our results suggest that IL-33 is sufficient and required for severe allergic inflammation in the lung and support the concept of IL-33 as a therapeutic target in allergic lung inflammation.
Trichinella inflammatory myopathy: host or parasite strategy?	The parasitic nematode Trichinella has a special relation with muscle, because of its unique intracellular localization in the skeletal muscle cell, completely devoted in morphology and biochemistry to become the parasite protective niche, otherwise called the nurse cell. The long-lasting muscle infection of Trichinella exhibits a strong interplay with the host immune response, mainly characterized by a Th2 phenotype. The aim of this review is to illustrate the role of the Th2 host immune response at the muscle level during trichinellosis in different experimental models, such as knock-out or immuno-modulated mice. In particular, in knock-out mice a crucial role of IL-10 is evident for the regulation of inflammation intensity. The muscular host immune response to Trichinella is partially regulated by the intestinal phase of the parasite which emphasizes the intensity of the following muscle inflammation compared with animals infected by synchronized injections of newborn larvae. In eosinophil-ablated mice such as PHIL and GATA-- animals it was observed that there was an increased NOS2 expression in macrophages, driven by higher IFN- release, thus responsible for muscle larva damage. Besides modulation of the intestinal stage of the infection, using recombinant IL-12, increases the muscular parasite burden delaying adult worm expulsion from the intestine. Furthermore, a Th1 adjuvant of bacterial origin called Helicobacter pylori neutrophil activating protein (HP-NAP), administered during the intestinal phase of trichinellosis, alters the Th2 dependent response at muscle level. All these data from the literature delineate then a mutual adaptation between parasite and host immune response in order to achieve a strategic compromise between two evolutionary forces pointed towards the survival of both species.
An anti-inflammatory role for carbon monoxide and heme oxygenase-1 in chronic Th2-mediated murine colitis.	Cigarette smoking is a significant environmental factor in the human inflammatory bowel diseases, remarkably, conferring protection in ulcerative colitis. We previously demonstrated that a prominent component of cigarette smoke, CO, suppresses Th17-mediated experimental colitis in IL-10(-/-) mice through a heme oxygenase (HO)-1-dependent pathway. In this study, homeostatic and therapeutic effects of CO and HO-1 were determined in chronic colonic inflammation in TCR--deficient ((-/-)) mice, in which colitis is mediated by Th2 cytokines, similar to the cytokine milieu described in human ulcerative colitis. TCR(-/-) mice exposed to CO or treated with the pharmacologic HO-1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin demonstrated amelioration of active colitis. CO and cobalt protoporphyrin suppressed colonic IL-1, TNF, and IL-4 production, whereas IL-10 protein secretion was increased. CO induced IL-10 expression in macrophages and in vivo through an HO-1-dependent pathway. Bacterial products regulate HO-1 expression in macrophages through MyD88- and IL-10-dependent pathways. CO exposure and pharmacologic HO-1 induction in vivo resulted in increased expression of HO-1 and IL-10 in CD11b(+) lamina propria mononuclear cells. Moreover, induction of the IL-10 family member IL-22 was demonstrated in CD11b(-) lamina propria mononuclear cells. In conclusion, CO and HO-1 induction ameliorated active colitis in TCR(-/-) mice, and therapeutic effects correlated with induction of IL-10. This study provides further evidence that HO-1 mediates an important homeostatic pathway with pleiotropic anti-inflammatory effects in different experimental models of colitis and that targeting HO-1, therefore, is a potential therapeutic strategy in human inflammatory bowel diseases.
Inhalation of Stachybotrys chartarum evokes pulmonary arterial remodeling in mice, attenuated by Rho-kinase inhibitor.	Stachybotrys chartarum, a ubiquitous fungus in our environment, has been suspected of causing respiratory symptoms in humans, such as acute infant pulmonary hemorrhage and asthma. We previously established a mouse model in which repeated inhalation of Stachybotrys chartarum spores caused pulmonary hypertension. To further investigate the model, particularly in the pulmonary circulation, mice were intra-tracheally injected with spores, 18 times over 12 weeks. Severe muscularization was observed in the small- to medium-sized pulmonary arteries. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid revealed an increase in eosinophils accompanied by high concentrations of Th2-associated cytokines, IL-4, IL-5, but not Th1-associated IFN-. The remodeling was temporary, resolving after cessation of spore inhalation. Chronic inhibition of the RhoA/Rho-kinase pathway by fasudil attenuated pulmonary arterial remodeling. These data suggest that Stachybotrys-mediated remodeling is caused by Th2-associated inflammation and can be resolved by Rho-kinase inhibition, either through direct effects on smooth muscle hypertrophy or through indirect effects on vascular inflammation. These data also show that extensive pulmonary vascular remodeling, often thought of as a fixed lesion, will spontaneously resolve in the absence of underlying molecular etiology.
Relationship between renal Th1/Th2 ratio and renal microvascular injury in children with Henoch-Sch-nlein purpura nephritis]	To explore possible correlations between renal Th1/Th2 ratio and renal microvascular injury in children with Henoch-Sch-nlein purpura nephritis (HSPN).
Type 2 helper T-cell cytokines induce morphologic and molecular characteristics of atopic dermatitis in human skin equivalent.	Both the immune system and the epidermis likely have an important role in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). The objective of the present study was to develop a human skin equivalent model exhibiting morphologic and molecular characteristics of AD in a controlled manner. Skin equivalents generated from normal adult human keratinocytes were stimulated with type 2 T-helper cell (Th2) cytokines IL-4 and IL-13, and morphologic features and gene expression of the epidermis were studied. Th2 cytokines induced intercellular edema similar to spongiotic changes observed in lesional AD as assessed at histopathologic analysis and electron microscopy. Furthermore, genes known to be specifically expressed in epidermis of patients with AD such as CAII and NELL2 were induced. In contrast, expression of psoriasis-associated genes such as elafin and hBD2 was not changed. Th2 cytokines caused DNA fragmentation in the keratinocytes, which could be inhibited by the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD, which suggests that apoptosis was induced. In addition, up-regulation of the death receptor Fas was observed in keratinocytes after Th2 cytokine stimulation. IL-4 and IL-13 induced phosphorylation of the signaling molecule STAT6. It was concluded that the skin equivalent model described herein may be useful in investigation of the epidermal aspects of AD and for study of drugs that act at the level of keratinocyte biology.
Activation of Th17/Th1 and Th1, but not Th17, is associated with the acute cardiac event in patients with acute coronary syndrome.	Th1 activation and regulatory T (Treg) cell suppression have been observed in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), including unstable angina (UA) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, the role of Th17 cell or IL-17A remains controversial in ACS patients, and little is known about the role of recently discovered Th17/Th1 cells, a subset of Th17 cells, in coronary artery disease (CAD). The purpose of this study is to investigate functional changes of Th17/Th1, Th17, Th1, Th2 and Treg cells in ACS patients.
Th17 response is augmented in OVA-induced asthmatic mice exposed to HDM.	It is widely accepted that T helper 2 (Th2) cells, Th17 cells and their cytokines orchestrate the feature of asthma. However, most of studies on asthma mechanisms use a single allergen challenge model. Actually, humans are concurrently exposed to various allergens, and the mechanism of asthma with complex allergen exposure is less well defined. To explore whether the mechanism would be altered if asthma patients are re-exposed to another allergen, we exposed the chicken egg albumin (OVA) induced-asthmatic mice to house dust mite (HDM).
Intracellular glutathione redox status in human dendritic cells regulates IL-27 production and T-cell polarization.	Glutathione redox status, changes in intracellular reduced (GSH) or oxidized (GSSG) glutathione, plays a significant role in various aspects of cellular function. In this study, we examined whether intracellular glutathione redox status in human dendritic cells (DCs) regulates the polarization of Th1/Th2 balance.
The association between HBV genotyping and clinical characteristics and expression of TH1/TH2 cytokines]	To explore the association between HBV genotyping and clinical characteristics and expression of TH1/TH2 cytokines.
The protease allergen Pen c 13 induces allergic airway inflammation and changes in epithelial barrier integrity and function in a murine model.	Fungal allergens are associated with the development of asthma, and some have been characterized as proteases. Here, we established an animal model of allergic airway inflammation in response to continuous exposure to proteolytically active Pen c 13, a major allergen secreted by Penicillium citrinum. In functional analyses, Pen c 13 exposure led to increased airway hyperresponsiveness, significant inflammatory cell infiltration, mucus overproduction, and collagen deposition in the lung, dramatically elevated serum levels of total IgE and Pen c 13-specific IgE and IgG1, and increased production of the Th2 cytokines IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 by splenocytes stimulated in vitro with Pen c 13. To examine the mechanisms involved in the regulation of allergenicity by Pen c 13, we performed two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis analysis combined with nano-LC-MS/MS, followed by bioinformatics analysis to identify potential targets that associated with allergic inflammation, which suggested that galectin-3 and laminin might be involved in novel pathogenic mechanisms. Finally, we focused on junctional proteins between cells, because, in addition to opening of the epithelial barrier by environmental proteases possibly being the initial step in the development of asthma, these proteins are also associated with actin rearrangement. Taken together, our findings indicate that Pen c 13 exposure causes junctional structure alterations and actin cytoskeletal rearrangements, resulting in increased permeability and airway structural changes. These effects probably change the lung microenvironment and foster the development of allergic sensitization.
Increased interleukin-4 and decreased interferon- levels in serum of children with asthma.	Immune and inflammatory responses, mediated by cytokines, play important roles in the pathophysiology of asthma. These responses are associated with over expression of T helper (Th)-2 cytokine, particularly interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5, and decreased expression of Th-1 cytokine, IL-2 and IFN-. We hypothesized that there would be an imbalance in the levels of circulating IL-4 and IFN- in the asthmatic subjects.
Immune adaptive microenvironment profiles in intracerebral and intrasplenic lymphomas share common characteristics.	A large body of evidence indicates that the immune microenvironment controls tumour development. Primary central nervous system lymphomas (PCNSL) are aggressive tumours growing in the central nervous system (CNS). To evaluate the role and characteristics of this immune-privileged site in anti-tumour defences, we compared the cellular and molecular immune microenvironments of growing murine lymphoma B cells injected into the brain or the spleen. In the brain, immune cells, including dendritic cells and T lymphocytes with a large proportion of CD4(+) forkhead box P3 (FoxP3(+)) regulatory T cells, rapidly infiltrated the tumour microenvironment. These populations also increased in number in the spleen. The T cell cytokine profiles in tumour-bearing mice were similar in the two sites, with predominant T helper type 1 (Th1)/Th17 polarization after polyclonal stimulation, although some interleukin (IL)-4 could also be found. We demonstrated that these T cells have anti-tumour activity in the CNS, although less than in the spleen: nude mice that received lymphoma cells intracerebrally died significantly earlier than immunocompetent animals. These results demonstrate that the brain is able to recruit all the major actors to mount a specific anti-tumour immune response against lymphoma.
Vibrio cholerae O1 infection induces proinflammatory CD4+ T-cell responses in blood and intestinal mucosa of infected humans.	Vibrio cholerae O1 is a noninvasive enteric pathogen and serves as a model for studies of mucosal immunity. Although symptomatic V. cholerae infection induces durable protection against subsequent disease, vaccination with oral killed whole-cell V. cholerae stimulates less long-lasting protection against cholera. In this study, we demonstrated that cholera induces an early proinflammatory cellular immune response that results in priming of Th1- and Th17-type cytokine responses to ex vivo antigenic stimulation and an increase in the ratio of Th1 to Th2 CD4(+) T-cell responses. Comparable priming of Th1 and Th17 responses, with an increased ratio of Th1 to Th2 CD4(+) T-cell responses, was not observed in subjects who received two doses of the oral cholera vaccine Dukoral (a whole-cell cholera toxin B subunit containing [WC-CTB] vaccine). These findings suggest that natural V. cholerae infection induces an early, proinflammatory cellular immune response, despite the apparent lack of clinical signs of inflammation. The failure of the WC-CTB vaccine to activate equivalent, CD4(+) T-cell responses is a potential explanation for the shorter duration of protection following immunization with this vaccine. Additional studies are needed to determine whether these early T-cell-mediated events predict the subsequent duration of immunologic memory.
Th2 responses to helminth parasites can be therapeutically enhanced by, but are not dependent upon, GITR-GITR ligand costimulation in vivo.	The immune suppression that characterizes human helminth infections can hinder the development of protective immunity or help to reduce pathogenic inflammation. Signaling through the T cell costimulator glucocorticoid-induced TNFR-related protein (GITR) counteracts immune downregulation by augmenting effector T cell responses and abrogating suppression by Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells. Thus, superphysiological Ab-mediated GITR costimulation represents a novel therapy for promoting protective immunity toward parasitic helminths, whereas blocking physiological GITR-GITR ligand (GITRL) interactions may provide a mechanism for dampening pathogenic Th2 inflammation. We investigated the superphysiological and physiological roles of the GITR-GITRL pathway in the development of protective and pathogenic Th2 responses in murine infection models of filariasis (Litomosoides sigmodontis) and schistosomiasis (Schistosoma mansoni). Providing superphysiological GITR costimulation using an agonistic anti-GITR mAb over the first 12 d of L. sigmodontis infection initially increased the quantity of Th2 cells, as well as their ability to produce Th2 cytokines. However, as infection progressed, the Th2 responses reverted to normal infection levels, and parasite killing remained unaffected. Despite the Th2-promoting role of superphysiological GITR costimulation, Ab-mediated blockade of the GITR-GITRL pathway did not affect Th2 cell priming or maintenance during L. sigmodontis infection. Blockade of GITR-GITRL interactions during the acute egg phase of S. mansoni infection resulted in reduced Th2 responses, but this effect was confined to the spleen and did not lead to changes in liver pathology. Thus, although superphysiological GITR costimulation can therapeutically enhance Th2 responses, physiological GITR-GITRL interactions are not required for the development of Th2-mediated resistance or pathology in murine models of filariasis and schistosomiasis.
Characterization of human invariant natural killer T cells expressing FoxP3.	Recently described forkhead box protein 3 (FoxP3) transcription factor is a key molecule in CD4+ CD25hi+ T-cell characterization. Invariant NK T (iNKT) cells are also characterized as regulatory cells modulating the immune response by rapidly producing T(h)1 and T(h)2 cytokines. We aimed to analyze cellular markers important in regulatory features of human iNKT cells and to study their role in functional assays. iNKT cells were single cell sorted from peripheral mononuclear cells of healthy individuals after immunostaining of invariant TCR -chain. We found FoxP3 expression in human iNKT clones. Randomly selected iNKT cell clones (CD4+, double negative, CD8+) expressed FoxP3 mRNA and protein at different levels upon stimulation as supported by various approaches. FoxP3 mRNA and protein expression was detected in unstimulated iNKT cells as well. Furthermore, different stimulations changed the FoxP3 expression in iNKT cells over time and the most dramatic changes were observed upon anti-CD3 stimulation. Both the supernatant of iNKT cells and iNKT cells themselves exerted similar stimulation effects on PBMC proliferation in functional assays and these stimulations showed a negative correlation with FoxP3 expression. Our data indicate that the FoxP3 expression in iNKT cells may be a key transcriptional factor in controlling the regulatory function of the iNKT cells.
A multivalent vaccine for type 1 diabetes skews T cell subsets to Th2 phenotype in NOD mice.	Previous studies by our group, using an experimental autoimmune thyroiditis (EAT) model in Strain 13 inbred guinea pigs, resulted in T cell-mediated delayed hypersensitivity; however, autoantibodies proved not to be cytotoxic to thyroid epithelial cells in the presence or absence of complement proteins. Albeit, T cell-mediated lymphocyte cytotoxicity began to diminish sharply concomitantly with increasing titers of circulating autoantibodies, indicating a skewing of the self-reactive response and amelioration of the EAT. Furthermore, immunization of guinea pigs with thyroglobulin in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) generated a high titer of antithyroglobulin antibodies and proved to inhibit thyroiditis. These observations indicated that the shift in the immune response from Th1 to Th2 and the production of antibodies were likely responsible for ameliorating EAT. Based upon these results, we extrapolated our studies to design a multivalent vaccine, which shows promise in preventing/reversing T1D in NOD mice. A small pilot study was conducted in which a total of 34 mice, 20 non-immunized controls and 14 immunized with syngeneic islet lysate, were monitored for mean day to diabetes for a total of 28 weeks. Immunization of NOD animals with syngeneic islet lysates resulted in a significant delay in diabetes onset (P < 0.001) as compared to non-immunized controls. To further assess the vaccine's efficacy, robustness, and delay of disease, a large-scale experiment was conducted and monitored for 32 weeks using 106 mice, 64 non-immunized controls and 42 immunized with syngeneic islet lysate. At the end of the study, 90% of the non-immunized group developed diabetes, while less than 25% of the immunized group became diabetic (P < 0.0001). The protective effect, as a result of vaccination, correlated with an increase in the levels of IL-10 and IL-4 cytokines as well as a skewing to Th2-dependent isotype antibodies in serum. Strikingly, adoptive transfer of spleen cells from immunized animals into NOD.scid recipients provided protection against transfer of diabetes by diabetogenic spleen cells. The results of this study provide evidence that vaccination with islet lysate leads to a Th2-dependent skewing of the immune response to islet beta cells as a possible mechanism of protection. This strategy may be implemented as a possible vaccination protocol for arresting and/or preventing T1D in patients.
Genetical genomics of Th1 and Th2 immune response in a baboon model of atherosclerosis risk factors.	CD4(+) T-cells mediate inflammation in atherosclerosis, but additive genetic effects on associated pathways of Th1 and Th2 immune response have not been described. We sought to characterize heritability, pleiotropy, and QTL effects on the expression of genes implicated in Th1 and Th2 immune response in a baboon model of risk factors for atherosclerosis.
Antiasthmatic effects of hesperidin, a potential Th2 cytokine antagonist, in a mouse model of allergic asthma.	The features of asthma are airway inflammation, reversible airflow obstruction, and an increased sensitivity to bronchoconstricting agents, termed airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), excess production of Th2 cytokines, and eosinophil accumulation in the lungs. To investigate the antiasthmatic potential of hesperidin as well as the underlying mechanism involved, we studied the inhibitory effect and anti-inflammatory effect of hesperidin (HPN) on the production of Th2 cytokines, eotaxin, IL-17, -OVA-specific IgE in vivo asthma model mice.
Serum OX40 ligand levels in asthmatic children: a potential biomarker of severity and persistence.	The costimulatory molecule OX40 and its ligand, OX40L, mediate key aspects of allergic airway inflammation in animal models of asthma, including eosinophilic airway inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness, and T-helper type 2 (Th2) polarization. However, involvement of these molecules in Th2-dominated allergen-induced childhood asthma remains unclear. Therefore, we sought to examine OX40L expression in pediatric asthma across disease activity and attack severity. Serum OX40L concentrations were measured by ELISA in 50 children with atopic asthma (during and in between acute attacks), and in 40 healthy children serving as controls. The median and mean (SD) serum OX40L levels (1487 and 1560 [543] pg/mL) were significantly higher in asthmatic children during acute attacks in comparison with children in between attacks (731 and 689 [321] pg/mL) and in comparison with controls (193 and 157 [60.3] pg/mL). OX40L values were higher among children who presented with acute severe asthma exacerbations than in children with mild or moderate asthma exacerbations. During stability, patients with severe persistent asthma had significantly higher levels when compared with patients with moderate or mild persistent asthma. A positive correlation could be elicited between OX40L levels during exacerbations and the corresponding values during remission. Serum OX40L levels correlated negatively with peak expiratory flow rate and positively with absolute eosinophil count. Up-regulation of OX40L may play a critical role in development of childhood atopic asthma and is in favor of asthma severity. OX40L may represent a useful biomarker of monitoring allergic inflammation. OX40L is one of the most promising targets of immune intervention for treatment of these diseases.
Inflammation: cell recruitment versus local proliferation.	Inflammation leads to local accumulation of macrophages. A new study shows that macrophage accumulation in inflammatory reactions dominated by type 2 immune responses is a result of local cell proliferation as opposed to recruitment of monocytes from the blood.
Bronchial asthma and gastroesophageal reflux disease: view of the clinician and pathophysiologist]	Combination of bronchial asthma (BA) with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GRD) is now most prevalent among combined pathology of the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts. Interaction of these diseases is stated basing on clinical picture and pathogenetic aspects of BA development in the presence of GRD and GRD in the presence of BA. Development of combined affection of gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts occurs in secondary immunodeficiency. Main lines of the paradigm of macrophage phenotypes M1/M2 and mechanisms of alternative development of the immune response Th1/Th2 in combination of GRD with BA are presented. Investigation of macrophage functional activity and Th1/ Th2 balance gives ground for development of the method of macrophage phenotype reprogramming which is a promising approach to effective treatment of combined pathology of the respiratory tract and upper gastrointestinal tract including cases resistant to pharmacological treatment.
A novel inactivated intranasal respiratory syncytial virus vaccine promotes viral clearance without Th2 associated vaccine-enhanced disease.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in young children worldwide, and no vaccine is currently available. Inactivated RSV vaccines tested in the 1960's led to vaccine-enhanced disease upon viral challenge, which has undermined RSV vaccine development. RSV infection is increasingly being recognized as an important pathogen in the elderly, as well as other individuals with compromised pulmonary immunity. A safe and effective inactivated RSV vaccine would be of tremendous therapeutic benefit to many of these populations.
Age-related cytokine regulation in children with malaria]	The paper presents data on age-related cytokine dysregulation in children with tertian or tropical malaria infection. Immunological changes depended on the dynamics of the infectious process and the severity of the pathological one. The most pronounced changes were observed in a group of infants probably due to the functional immaturity of immunoregulatory mechanisms appearing as elevated levels of proinflammatory cytokines with a reduction in IFN-gamma, which suggest that Th-1 lymphocyte reactions are inhibited. With age, there is a shift from Th2 towards Th1 immune response, which testifies that the disease runs a favorable course. These findings may be useful in assessing the prognosis of the course and outcome of malaria in children.
DNA immunization with fusion of CTLA-4 to hepatitis B virus (HBV) core protein enhanced Th2 type responses and cleared HBV with an accelerated kinetic.	Typically, DNA immunization via the intramuscular route induces specific, Th1-dominant immune responses. However, plasmids expressing viral proteins fused to cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) primed Th2-biased responses and were able to induced effective protection against viral challenge in the woodchuck model. Thus, we addressed the question in the mouse model how the Th1/Th2 bias of primed immune responses by a DNA vaccine influences hepatitis B virus (HBV) clearance.
Targeting CXCR3 reduces ligand-induced T-cell activation but not development of lung allergic responses.	Asthma is a chronic airway inflammatory disease that is associated with a large influx of inflammatory cells. Several chemokines and chemokine receptors play critical roles in the development of allergic airway inflammation.
A novel animal model of pruritus induced by successive application of glucocorticoid to mouse skin.	Topical glucocorticoids are commonly applied for treatment of atopic dermatitis, and are often administered over a long period. However, itching often occurs as a rebound phenomenon after cessation of long-term glucocorticoid application. The present study was an initial trial designed to establish an animal model of glucocorticoid-induced pruritus by topical application of dexamethasone over a long period in mice with contact dermatitis. BALB/c mice with chronic allergic contact dermatitis induced by 5 weeks of repeated application of 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB) were treated topically with dexamethasone for 3 weeks from 2 weeks after the elicitation of dermatitis. The effects of dexamethasone on inflammation and pruritus were evaluated by measurement of ear-swelling and scratching behavior, respectively. Significant enhancement of pruritus was confirmed after chronic application of dexamethasone. The increased frequency of scratching behavior was reduced by withdrawal of dexamethasone. On the other hand, ear-swelling was markedly ameliorated by dexamethasone treatment, but rapidly relapsed after dexamethasone withdrawal. The level of interleukin (IL)-4 mRNA in ear skin and that of IgE in serum were increased in the mice with dermatitis and reduced by dexamethasone treatment. On the other hand, the level of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA was slightly increased by dexamethasone treatment and remained high even after its discontinuation. It is anticipated that this novel animal model of glucocorticoid-induced pruritus will be useful for clarifying the mechanisms of the rebound phenomenon induced by chronic treatment with topical glucocorticoids, and for developing a new form of therapy.
Protection against Nippostrongylus brasiliensis infection in mice is independent of GM-CSF.	Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a cytokine with the capacity to promote inflammation in a wide variety of infectious and inflammatory diseases. These conditions include allergic airway inflammation, which is driven by T-helper 2 (Th2) cells. Because of the importance of Th2 cells in parasite infections, we have investigated the role of GM-CSF in mice infected with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. The effect of primary and secondary infection was investigated in mice lacking functional genes for GM-CSF (CSF2 genes) (GM-CSF mice), and in mice lacking the cytokine receptor common  chain ( mice), the latter being unable to signal in response to GM-CSF and interleukin (IL)-5. GM-CSF mice showed no significant defect in parasite immunity, measured by larval numbers in the lungs, worm numbers in the intestine or egg numbers in the faeces, in either primary or secondary infection. By contrast, the  mice showed increased parasite burden, with higher numbers of lung larvae after secondary infection and higher numbers of intestinal worms and faecal eggs after both primary and secondary infection. Unexpectedly, there were increased numbers of circulating eosinophils in the GM-CSF mice, associated with significantly reduced larval numbers in the lungs. These results indicate that GM-CSF is redundant in protection against N. brasiliensis infection, and that the increased susceptibility of  mice to infection is likely to be attributed to the lack of IL-5 signalling in these mice. The results suggest that clinical use of agents that neutralise GM-CSF may not be associated with increased risk of parasite infection.
Function and mechanisms of TSLP/TSLPR complex in asthma and COPD.	Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is a key pro-allergic cytokine that has recently been linked to chronic airway diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). High levels of TSLP were detected in bronchial mucosa of asthma and COPD patients suggesting TSLP's biological role beyond a signature 'Th2-favoring' or 'pro-allergic cytokine'. Besides inflammatory cells, airway structural cells produce and are targets of TSLP suggesting a potential autocrine loop that may have a profound effect on local inflammatory response and airway remodelling. This review sums up diverse mechanisms that mediate TSLP/TSLP receptor-signalling network in chronic airway diseases.
-opioid receptor-mediated alterations of allergen-induced immune responses of bronchial lymph node cells in a murine model of stress asthma.	Psychological stress has a recognized association with asthma symptoms. Using a murine model of allergic asthma, we recently demonstrated the involvement of -opioid receptors (MORs) in the central nervous system in the stress-induced exacerbation of airway inflammation. However, the involvement of MORs on neurons and immunological alterations in the stress asthma model remain unclear.
A nebulized gelatin nanoparticle-based CpG formulation is effective in immunotherapy of allergic horses.	In the recent years, nanotechnology has boosted the development of potential drug delivery systems and material engineering on nanoscale basis in order to increase drug specificity and reduce side effects. A potential delivery system for immunostimulating agents such as cytosine-phosphate-guanine-oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-ODN) needs to be developed to maximize the efficacy of immunotherapy against hypersensitivity. In this study, an aerosol formulation of biodegradable, biocompatible and nontoxic gelatin nanoparticle-bound CpG-ODN 2216 was used to treat equine recurrent airway obstruction in a clinical study.
Comparative analysis of spontaneous and mycobacterial antigen-induced secretion of Th1, Th2 and pro-inflammatory cytokines by peripheral blood mononuclear cells of tuberculosis patients.	The cytokines produced by T helper (Th)1 cells (IFN-, IL-2 and TNF-) correlate with protection, whereas the cytokines released by Th2 cells (IL-4, IL-5) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 correlate with pathogenesis of tuberculosis (TB). However, the pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, TNF- and IL-12p70) are responsible for both protection and pathogenesis of TB. The aim of this work was to carry out a comparative analysis of cytokines present in early (day 2) and late (day 6) cultures of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from pulmonary tuberculosis patients. PBMCs were cultured in vitro in the absence and presence of exogenously added complex mycobacterial antigens and RD1 peptide pool. The supernatants were collected on day 2 and day 6 of culture and assayed for secreted cytokines using the flow cytomix assay. All of the cytokines, except for IL-12p70, were spontaneously secreted by PBMCs of 27-100% TB patients, but only TNF- concentration was significantly higher on day 2 than day 6 (P<0.05). Two days following antigenic stimulation, only IL-1, IL-6, TNF- and IL-10 were secreted in response to some mycobacterial antigens. However, 6days later, all of the cytokines, except for IL-2, IL-4, IL-5 and IL-8, were secreted significantly in response to all complex antigens and RD1 peptides, compared with the non-stimulated cultures (P<0.05). In conclusion, the study shows that the longer in vitro stimulation time (6days) was necessary for the optimal induction of IFN- and TNF-, and practically convenient for the detection of IL-10, IL-1 , TNF- and IL-6.
ST2 requires Th2-, but not Th17-, type airway inflammation in epicutaneously antigen- sensitized mice.	IL-33 is known to induce Th2-type cytokine production by various types of cells through its receptors, ST2 and IL-1RAcP. Polymorphism in the ST2 and/or IL-33 genes was found in patients with atopic dermatitis and asthma, implying that the IL-33/ST2 pathway is closely associated with susceptibility to these diseases. Exposure to allergens through damaged skin is suspected to be a trigger for allergen sensitization, resulting in development of such allergic disorders as asthma and atopic dermatitis.
Dissecting the causes of atopic dermatitis in children: less foods, more mites.	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common, chronic or chronically relapsing, multifactorial skin disease that mainly occurs in children but affects also adults. AD usually begins early in life and often concerns people with a personal or family history of asthma and allergic rhinitis. AD is characterized by eczematous changes in the epidermis and originates from a late, T-cell mediated reaction associated to the formation and production of memory T-cell of TH2 type, occurrence of homing receptor at skin level and cutaneous lymphocyte-associated (CLA) antigens. Extrinsic or allergic AD, but not intrinsic AD, shows high total serum IgE levels and the presence of specific IgE for environmental and food allergens. A pivotal role in the pathogenesis of AD is played by filaggrin, a protein contained in the granular layer of the epidermis regulating the aggregation of keratin filaments. Mutation in the filaggrin gene causes decreased barrier function of the corny layers of the epidermis. This favours  the enter through the skin of environmental allergens, especially the house dust mite, that further facilitates such entering by the proteolytic activity of its major allergen Der p 1. In fact, recent advances suggest that the dust mite, more than foods, is the major cause of allergic AD. As far as the causal diagnosis of AD is concerned, there is notable evidence supporting the capacity of the atopy patch test (APT) to reproduce the pathophysiologic events of AD. This makes APT a valuable diagnostic tool for AD.
B cells: programmers of CD4 T cell responses.	B cells are once again gaining prominence as important programmers of CD4 T cell responses. With widespread use of B cell depletion therapy in the clinic, proving effective in treating diseases previously considered T cell-mediated, the time is right for a re-appraisal of the B cell. Though typically considered weak, Th2 driving APC, it is now clear that they are necessary for a robust and long-lived CD4 T cell response in many settings. The sphere of B cell influence extends well beyond that of simply antibody production; antigen presentation, cytokine secretion, costimulation and development of lymphoid tissue architecture are all critical aspects of B cell immunobiology, the absence of which has serious impacts for T cell priming and memory. The aim of this review is to look at non-antibody mediated B cell function and to ask how, where and when do B cells influence the CD4 T cell response?
AIMP1 deficiency enhances airway hyperreactivity in mice via increased TH2 immune responses.	Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase complex-interacting multicomplex protein 1 (AIMP1) is known as a novel cytokine carrying out a variety of biological activities, including angiogenesis and wound repair. In our previous reports AIMP1 was demonstrated to induce TH1 polarization. However, the effects of AIMP1 deficiency in TH1 or TH2 immune disorders remain unclear. In this study, we characterized phenotypes of AIMP1-deficient mice and investigated the role of AIMP1 in TH2-biased airway hyperreactivity. Clinical signs of allergic airway inflammation were assessed in AIMP1-deficient mice and the effects of AIMP1 deficiency on production of TH2 cytokines were evaluated in T cells using AIMP1-specific siRNA. Additionally, the enhanced pause values and histologic analysis were assessed in mice receiving AIMP1-deficient CD4+ T cells with OVA challenge. Clinical signs of spontaneous airway inflammation were noted in AIMP1-deficienct mice. AIMP1-deficient mice showed strongly increased Penh values in response to methacholine without any allergen exposure. Adoptive transfer of AIMP1-deficient CD4+ T cells to OVA-sensitized C57BL/6 mice exacerbated OVA-induced airway inflammation and increased infiltration of inflammatory cells into the lung. Furthermore, lung DCs in AIMP1-deficient mice showed increased expression of surface molecules, and IL-12p40 level in sera significantly decreased in AIMP1-deficient mice compared to that of wild type mice. These results strongly indicate that AIMP1 plays a role in negatively regulating TH2 responses in vivo, and AIMP1 can be employed as a novel therapeutic agent against TH2-biased diseases, particularly asthma.
Blocking CCR7 at the ocular surface impairs the pathogenic contribution of dendritic cells in allergic conjunctivitis.	CCR7 plays a key role in mobilizing tissue dendritic cells (DCs) to the lymphoid compartment for consequent elicitation of adaptive immunity. Interfering with CCR7 function therapeutically would therefore be anticipated to inhibit the progression of atopic conditions, for example, allergic conjunctivitis (AC). However, the CCR7-CCL19/CCL21 system in the ocular surface is poorly understood as is the precise role of DCs in AC immunopathogenesis. T cells from ovalbumin (OVA)-primed mice were adoptively transferred into wild-type (WT) hosts. Exogenous WT (eGFP(+)) versus CCR7(-/-) DCs were engrafted subconjunctivally (SCJ), and hosts were challenged with OVA (Texas-Red+) eye drops. AC immunopathogenesis was evaluated via clinical examinations, infiltration of mast cells and eosinophils, Th2 reactivity, and serum IgE levels. AC was also assessed in actively immunized mice challenged with OVA eye drops containing 1% anti-CCR7 antibody or isotype control. In eye-draining lymph nodes (LNs), OVA(+) SCJ engrafted WT DCs conferred upregulated CCR7 and caused augmentation of clinical signs. This result was corroborated by increased conjunctival infiltration, Th2 cytokines in LNs, and serum OVA-specific IgE. Strikingly, this was completely reversed with SCJ engrafted CCR7(-/-) DCs in all parameters tested. Furthermore, topical antibody blockade of CCR7 in actively immunized mice significantly inhibited AC. Ocular surface DCs via CCR7 expression contribute to the immunopathogenesis of AC, thereby allowing significant inhibition of this experimental condition via topical CCR7 antibody blockade.
Elevated interferon regulatory factor 4 levels in patients with allergic asthma.	Allergic asthma is a common inflammatory disease regulated by the T helper (Th) cells. Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) plays an important role in the differentiation of Th cells. This study investigated whether IRF4 is involved in the systemic immune responses in allergic asthma patients.
Local allergic rhinitis: concept, pathophysiology, and management.	Local allergic rhinitis (LAR) is a localized nasal allergic response in the absence of systemic atopy characterized by local production of specific IgE (sIgE) antibodies, a T(H)2 pattern of mucosal cell infiltration during natural exposure to aeroallergens, and a positive nasal allergen provocation test response with release of inflammatory mediators (tryptase and eosinophil cationic protein). Although the prevalence remains to be established, a number of patients previously given a diagnosis of nonallergic rhinitis or idiopathic rhinitis are now being classified as having LAR. Culprit allergens responsible include house dust mite, grass and olive pollens, and many others. For the diagnosis of LAR, neither skin prick testing nor determination of the presence of serum sIgE antibodies is useful, and a nasal allergen provocation test is needed to identify the culprit allergen or allergens. In a certain proportion of cases, local sIgE can be detected, and conjunctivitis, asthma, or both can be associated. Whether patients with LAR will have systemic atopy in the future is a matter of debate. Further studies are needed for examine the prevalence of this phenomenon in different areas, to improve the diagnostic methods to better identify these patients, and to develop therapeutic approaches, including the use of immunotherapy.
Dynamic role of epithelium-derived cytokines in asthma.	Asthma is an inflammatory disorder of the airways, characterized by infiltration of mast cells, eosinophils, and Th2-type CD4+ T cells in the airway wall. Airway epithelium constitutes the first line of interaction with our atmospheric environment. The protective barrier function of the airway epithelium is likely impaired in asthma. Furthermore, recent studies suggest critical immunogenic and immunomodulatory functions of airway epithelium. In particular, a triad of cytokines, including IL-25, IL-33 and TSLP, is produced and released by airway epithelial cells in response to various environmental and microbial stimuli or by cellular damage. These cytokines induce and promote Th2-type airway inflammation and cause remodeling and pathological changes in the airway walls, suggesting their pivotal roles in the pathophysiology of asthma. Thus, the airway epithelium can no longer be regarded as a mere structural barrier, but must be considered an active player in the pathogenesis of asthma and other allergic disorders.
Equine insect bite hypersensitivity: what do we know?	Insect bite hypersensitivity (IBH) is an allergic dermatitis of the horse caused by bites of insects of the genus Culicoides and is currently the best characterized allergic disease of horses. This article reviews knowledge of the immunopathogenesis of IBH, with a particular focus on the causative allergens. Whereas so far hardly any research has been done on the role of antigen presenting cells in the pathogenesis of IBH, recent studies suggest that IBH is characterized by an imbalance between a T helper 2 (Th2) and regulatory T cell (T(reg)) immune response, as shown both locally in the skin and with stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Various studies have shown IBH to be associated with IgE-mediated reactions against salivary antigens from Culicoides spp. However, until recently, the causative allergens had not been characterized at the molecular level. A major advance has now been made, as 11 Culicoides salivary gland proteins have been identified as relevant allergens for IBH. Currently, there is no satisfactory treatment of IBH. Characterization of the main allergens for IBH and understanding what mechanisms induce a healthy or allergic immune response towards these allergens may help to develop new treatment strategies, such as immunotherapy.
Locally instilled tumor necrosis factor- antisense oligonucleotide inhibits allergic inflammation via the induction of Tregs.	Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- therapeutics has the potential to alleviate allergic inflammation. However, in previous studies, the systemic administration of anti-TNF- agents was frequently accompanied by many adverse effects, such as infection, immunogenicity and malignancy. Efforts are made in the present study to evaluate whether or not local administration of TNF- antisense oligonucleotide would inhibit allergic airway inflammation and influence systemic immune responses in an ovalbumin-induced asthmatic murine model.
An N-terminal mutation of the Foxp3 transcription factor alleviates arthritis but exacerbates diabetes.	Maintenance of lymphoid homeostasis in a number of immunological and inflammatory contexts is served by a variety of regulatory T (Treg) cell subtypes and depends on interaction of the transcription factor FoxP3 with specific transcriptional cofactors. We report that a commonly used insertional mutant of FoxP3 (GFP-Foxp3) modified its molecular interactions, blocking HIF-1 but increasing IRF4 interactions. The transcriptional profile of these Treg cells was subtly altered, with an overrepresentation of IRF4-dependent transcripts. In keeping with IRF4-dependent function of Treg cells to preferentially suppress Tcell help to B cells and Th2 and Th17 cell-type differentiation, GFP-FoxP3 mice showed a divergent susceptibility to autoimmune disease: protection against antibody-mediated arthritis in the K/BxN model, but greater susceptibility to diabetes on the NOD background. Thus, specific subfunctions of Treg cells and the immune diseases they regulate can be influenced by FoxP3's molecular interactions, which result in divergent immunoregulation.
Epithelial cell-specific Act1 adaptor mediates interleukin-25-dependent helminth expulsion through expansion of Lin(-)c-Kit(+) innate cell population.	Interleukin-25 (IL-25 or IL-17E), a member of the structurally related IL-17 family, functions as an important mediator of T helper 2 cell-type (type 2) responses. We examined the cell type-specific role of IL-25-induced Act1-mediated signaling in protective immunity against helminth infection. Targeted Act1 deficiency in epithelial cells resulted in a marked delay in worm expulsion and abolished the expansion of the Lin(-)c-Kit(+) innate cell population in the mesenteric lymph node, lung, and liver. Th2 cell-inducing cytokine (IL-25 and IL-33) expression were reduced in the intestinal epithelial cells from the infected and IL-25-injected epithelial-specific Act1-deficient mice. Adoptive transfer of Lin(-)c-Kit(+) cells or combined injection of IL-25 and IL-33 restored the type 2 responses in these mice. Taken together, these results suggest that epithelial-specific Act1 mediates the expansion of the Lin(-)c-Kit(+) innate cell population through the positive-feedback loop of IL-25, initiating the type 2 immunity against helminth infection.
Possible regulatory role of galectin-9 on Ascaris suum-induced eosinophilic lung inflammation in mice.	Galectin-9 (Gal-9) is a member of the galectin family of lectins that exhibit binding affinity for -galactosides. We found a T cell line-derived Gal-9 with novel eosinophil chemoattractant activity, but its role in eosinophilic inflammation of the lung is unknown. We evaluated the role of Gal-9 in Ascaris suum-induced eosinophilic lung inflammation in mice.
Subpopulation structure of T-regulatory cells and proliferative response of blood lymphocytes in vitro under pulmonary tuberculosis]	Subpopulation structure of T-regulatory cells and proliferative activity of blood lymphocytes in vitro in patients with different clinical forms of pulmonary tuberculosis were studied in this work. It has been shown that Trn--natural T-regulatory lymphocytes (CD4+CD25+Foxp3+) play a leading role in formation of immune suppression under infiltrative, disseminated and fibrosis-cavernous pulmonary tuberculosis. Besides, their number is increased in blood of both tuberculin-positive and tuberculin-negative patients. Negative correlation between the number of Trn and proliferative activity of blood lymphocytes (basal, mitogen- and antigen-induced)has been established, which testifies about participation of Trn in suppression of lymphocyte proliferation and Th1- and Th2-immune response.
Full-length IL-33 promotes inflammation but not Th2 response in vivo in an ST2-independent fashion.	Expression of IL-33 is elevated in patients with pulmonary diseases, and full-length (not proteolytically processed) IL-33 is the predominant form in the lungs in health and disease. To determine whether activation of IL-33 is needed for functional effects, activities of full-length mouse and mature mouse (mm) forms of IL-33 were compared in vivo. Replication-deficient adenoviral constructs were used for gene delivery. Both isoforms caused pulmonary infiltration of lymphocytes and neutrophils, whereas mm IL-33 also caused pulmonary eosinophilia and goblet cell hyperplasia and increased expression of IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-17, MCP-1, and KC. The different effects were not associated with differential release from IL-33-producing cells or by differences in subcellular distributions of IL-33 isoforms. Germline deficiency of the cell surface receptor chain ST2 abrogated the mm IL-33-induced Th2-associated effects (pulmonary eosinophilia, goblet cell hyperplasia, and increased IL-4 and IL-5), yet the lymphocytic infiltration induced by full-length mouse IL-33 or mm IL-33 was not fully abrogated by the absence of ST2. The similar effects of IL-33 isoforms were associated with comparable regulation of gene expression, notably matrix metalloproteinases 3, 10, and 13. Thus, full-length IL-33 is functionally active in vivo in an ST2-independent fashion, and its effects are partially different from those of mature IL-33. The different effects of these isoforms, particularly the pro-Th2 effects of mature IL-33, are due to differential utilization of the IL-33R chain ST2, whereas their similar effects result from regulation of gene expression.
Induction of prolonged asthma tolerance by IL-10-differentiated dendritic cells: differential impact on airway hyperresponsiveness and the Th2 immunoinflammatory response.	IL-10-differentiated dendritic cells (DC10s) can prevent allergen sensitization and reverse the asthma phenotype in mice with established disease. However, little is known about the time-frames over which this tolerance is effective. We report that at 2 wk after i.p. or transtracheal delivery of 1  10(6) OVA-, but not house dust mite- presenting, DC10s to OVA-asthmatic mice, significant diminution of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) was first apparent, whereas AHR was abrogated between 3 and 10 wk posttreatment. At 13 wk, AHR returned to pretreatment levels but could again be reversed by DC10 retreatment. The impact of a single DC10 treatment on airway eosinophil and Th2 cytokine responses to recall OVA challenge, and on OVA-specific IgE/IgG1 responses, was substantial at 3 wk posttreatment, but progressively increased thereafter, such that at 8 mo, airway eosinophil and Th2 responses to recall allergen challenge remained 85-95% suppressed relative to saline-treated asthmatic mice. Four biweekly DC10 treatments, whether transtracheal or i.p., reduced all asthma parameters to near background by 8 wk, whereas s.c. DC10 treatments did not affect AHR but did reduce the airway Th2 responses (i.v. DC10 had no discernible effects). Repeated challenge of the DC10-treated mice with aerosolized OVA (100 g/ml) did not reverse tolerance, but treatment with the indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase antagonist 1-methyltryptophan or neutralizing anti-IL-10R from days 12 to 21 after DC10 therapy partially reversed tolerance (Th2 cytokine responses, but not AHR). These findings indicate that DC10-induced Th2 tolerance in asthmatic animals is long lived, but that DC10s employ distinct mechanisms to affect AHR versus Th2 immunoinflammatory parameters.
Regulation of T(H)2 development by CXCR5+ dendritic cells and lymphotoxin-expressing B cells.	Although cognate encounters between antigen-bearing dendritic cells (DCs) that express the chemokine receptor CCR7 and CCR7(+) naive T cells take place in the T cell zone of lymph nodes, it is unknown whether the colocalization of DCs and T cells in the T cell area is required for the generation of effector cells. Here we found that after infection with an intestinal nematode, antigen-bearing DCs and CD4(+) T cells upregulated the chemokine receptor CXCR5 and localized together outside the T cell zone by a mechanism dependent on the chemokine CXCL13, B cells and lymphotoxin. Notably, lymphotoxin-expressing B cells, CXCR5-expressing DCs and T cells, and CXCL13 were also necessary for development of interleukin 4 (IL-4)-producing type 2 helper T cells (T(H)2 cells), which suggests that T(H)2 differentiation can initiate outside the T cell zone.
Immunotherapy for tuberculosis: what's the better choice?	A Th1/Th2 imbalance in tuberculosis (TB) patients caused by a decreased Th1 response and an increased Th2 response is a significant factor in the pathogenesis and development of TB. Protective immune responses to TB include bacteriostatic and bactericidal responses. Unfortunately, however, immunoprotection and immune pathology co-exist in TB patients. Immunotherapy for TB principally aims to restore the Th1/Th2 balance by enhancing the Th1 response and suppressing the excessive Th2 response. Immunotherapy for TB can be classified into three categories: immune-enhancing therapy using cytokines, immunosuppressive therapy, and immunomodulatory therapy. Immunomodulatory therapy targets the Th1/Th2 imbalance and includes cytokine regulation therapy, antibody regulation therapy, a multi-dose heat-inactivated Mycobacterium vaccae vaccine, thymosin hormones and a DNA vaccine. A new approach in supplementary TB immunotherapy is to simultaneously up-regulate the Th1 response and down-regulate the Th2 response. While immunotherapy can contribute to TB treatment, it may also cause immunopathological injury. Therefore, immunotherapy needs to be improved and further studied to maximize its potential.
Nucleoprotein nanostructures combined with adjuvants adapted to the neonatal immune context: a candidate mucosal RSV vaccine.	The human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV) is the leading cause of severe bronchiolitis in infants worldwide. The most severe RSV diseases occur between 2 and 6 months-of-age, so pediatric vaccination will have to be started within the first weeks after birth, when the immune system is prone to Th2 responses that may turn deleterious upon exposure to the virus. So far, the high risk to prime for immunopathological responses in infants has hampered the development of vaccine. In the present study we investigated the safety and efficacy of ring-nanostructures formed by the recombinant nucleoprotein N of hRSV (N(SRS)) as a mucosal vaccine candidate against RSV in BALB/c neonates, which are highly sensitive to immunopathological Th2 imprinting.
Eosinophilic esophagitis after esophageal atresia: is there an association? Case presentation and literature review.	Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a relatively new condition resulting in dysphagia or symptoms resembling gastroesophageal reflux disease, symptoms that also are common in patients with a history of esophageal atresia. We present 2 patients with persistent dysphagia after repair of esophageal atresia that was caused by EoE. Although the exact etiology and pathogenesis of EoE remain unclear, it is now generally accepted that it is the result of a T-helper cell 2-type immune response with a crucial role for the eosinophil-specific chemotaxis factor eotaxin 3 and eosinophils. Because there are genetic similarities between esophageal atresia and EoE, we speculate that patients with esophageal atresia are at increased risk for developing EoE.
Using eggs from Schistosoma mansoni as an in vivo model of helminth-induced lung inflammation.	Schistosoma parasites are blood flukes that infect an estimated 200 million people worldwide. In chronic infection with Schistosoma, the severe pathology, including liver fibrosis and splenomegaly, is caused by the immune response to the parasite eggs rather than the parasite itself. Parasite eggs induce a Th2 response characterized by the production of IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13, the alternative activation of macrophages and the recruitment of eosinophils. Here, we describe injection of Schistosoma mansoni eggs as a model to examine parasite-specific Th2 cytokine responses in the lung and draining lymph nodes, the formation of pulmonary granulomas surrounding the egg, and airway inflammation. Following intraperitoneal sensitization and intravenous challenge, S. mansoni eggs are transported to the lung via the pulmonary arteries where they are trapped within the lung parenchyma by granulomas composed of lymphocytes, eosinophils and alternatively activated macrophages. Associated with granuloma formation, inflammation in the broncho-alveolar spaces, expansion of the draining lymph nodes and CD4 T cell activation can be observed. Here we detail the protocol for isolating Schistosoma mansoni eggs from infected livers (modified from), sensitizing and challenging mice, and recovering the organs (broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL), lung and draining lymph nodes) for analysis. We also include representative histologic and immunologic data and suggestions for additional immunologic analysis. Overall, this method provides an in vivo model to investigate helminth-induced immunologic responses in the lung, which is broadly applicable to the study of Th2 inflammatory diseases including helminth infection, fibrotic diseases, allergic inflammation and asthma. Advantages of this model for the study of type 2 inflammation in the lung include the reproducibility of a potent Th2 inflammatory response in the lung and draining lymph nodes, the ease of assessment of inflammation by histologic examination of the granulomas surrounding the egg, and the potential for long-term storage of the parasite eggs.
The many lives of IL-9: a question of survival?	Although the cytokine interleukin 9 (IL-9) was discovered decades ago, it remains one of the most enigmatic cytokines identified so far, in particular because its functional activities remain far from clear. Breakthroughs made through the use of IL-9 reporter mice have allowed the identification of cell types that produce IL-9 in vivo and, contrary to expectations based on previous results obtained in vitro, it is not T cells but instead a previously unknown type of innate lymphoid cell, called the 'ILC2 cell', that is the main cell type that expresses IL-9 in vivo. In this perspective, we put forward a hypothesis about the potential biological functions of IL-9 in the immune system and beyond.
Effect of cordycepin purified from Cordyceps militaris on Th1 and Th2 cytokines in mouse splenocytes.	Cordycepin was purified from a mushroom, Cordyceps militaris, and its effect on Th1 and Th2 cytokines was examined. The level of cytokine induction in mouse splenocytes was estimated after co-inoculation of purified cordycepin and LPS. When 5 microg/ml of purified cordycepin was exposed to mouse splenocytes for 72 h, the level of a Th1 cytokine IL-12 increased by 2.9-fold. The addition of the purified cordycepin to splenocytes also increased the level of Th2 cytokines, IL-4 and IL-10, by 1.9- and 1.8- fold, respectively. Therefore, cordycepin increases the cytokine levels and may contribute to the up-regulation of cellular and humoral immunity.
The Th1:th2 dichotomy of pregnancy and preterm labour.	Pregnancy is a unique immunological state in which a balance of immune tolerance and suppression is needed to protect the fetus without compromising the mother. It has long been established that a bias from the T helper 1 cytokine profile towards the T helper 2 profile contributes towards successful pregnancy maintenance. The majority of publications that report on aberrant Th1:Th2 balance focus on early pregnancy loss and preeclampsia. Over the last few decades, there has been an increased awareness of the role of infection and inflammation in preterm labour, and the search for new biomarkers to predict preterm labour continues. In this paper, we explore the evidence for an aberrant Th1:Th2 profile associated with preterm labour. We also consider the potential for its use in screening women at high risk of preterm labour and for prophylactic therapeutic measures for the prevention of preterm labour and associated neonatal adverse outcomes.
Effect of Pru p 3 on dendritic cell maturation and T-lymphocyte proliferation in peach allergic patients.	Pru p 3 is the major peach allergen and the most frequent cause of food allergy in adults in the Mediterranean area. Although its allergenicity is well characterized, its ability to generate a T-cell response is not completely known.
Phenotypic and functional comparison between flask adherent and magnetic activated cell sorted monocytes derived dendritic cells.	Generation of an effective dendritic cell (DC) based cancer vaccine depends on appropriate differentiation of monocytes in vitro.
MyD88 signaling pathway is involved in renal fibrosis by favoring a TH2 immune response and activating alternative M2 macrophages.	Inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Molecules released by the inflamed injured tissue can activate toll-like receptors (TLRs), thereby modulating macrophage and CD4(+) T-cell activity. We propose that in renal fibrogenesis, M2 macrophages are recruited and activated in a T helper subset 2 cell (T(H)2)-prone inflammatory milieu in a MyD88-dependent manner. Mice submitted to unilateral ureteral ligation (UUO) demonstrated an increase in macrophage infiltration with collagen deposition after 7 d. Conversely, TLR2, TLR4 and MyD88 knockout (KO) mice had an improved renal function together with diminished T(H)2 cytokine production and decreased fibrosis formation. Moreover, TLR2, TLR4 and MyD88 KO animals exhibited less M2 macrophage infiltration, namely interleukin (IL)-10(+) and CD206(+) CD11b(high) cells, at 7 d after surgery. We evaluated the role of a T(H)2 cytokine in this context, and observed that the absence of IL-4 was associated with better renal function, decreased IL-13 and TGF- levels, reduced arginase activity and a decrease in fibrosis formation when compared with IL-12 KO and wild-type (WT) animals. Indeed, the better renal outcomes and the decreased fibrosis formation were restricted to the deficiency of IL-4 in the hematopoietic compartment. Finally, macrophage depletion, rather than the absence of T cells, led to reduced lesions of the glomerular filtration barrier and decreased collagen deposition. These results provide evidence that future therapeutic strategies against renal fibrosis should be accompanied by the modulation of the M1:M2 and T(H)1:T(H)2 balance, as T(H)2 and M2 cells are predictive of fibrosis toward mechanisms that are sensed by innate immune response and triggered in a MyD88-dependent pathway.
Progressive activation of T(H)2/T(H)22 cytokines and selective epidermal proteins characterizes acute and chronic atopic dermatitis.	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common disease with an increasing prevalence. The primary pathogenesis of the disease is still elusive, resulting in the lack of specific treatments. AD is currently considered a biphasic disease, with T(H)2 predominating in acute disease and a switch to T(H)1 characterizing chronic disease. Elucidation of the molecular factors that participate in the onset of new lesions and maintenance of chronic disease is critical for the development of targeted therapeutics.
Toll-like receptor-2 agonist-allergen coupling efficiently redirects Th2 cell responses and inhibits allergic airway eosinophilia.	Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists beneficially modulate allergic airway inflammation. However, the efficiency of TLR agonists varies considerably, and their exact cellular mechanisms (especially of TLR 2/6 agonists) are incompletely understood. We investigated at a cellular level whether the administration of the pharmacologically improved TLR2/6 agonist S-[2,3-bispalmitoyiloxy-(2R)-propyl]-R-cysteinyl-amido-monomethoxy polyethylene glycol (BPP) conjugated to antigenic peptide (BPP-OVA) could divert an existing Th2 response and influence airway eosinophilia. The effects of BPP-OVA on airway inflammation were assessed in a classic murine sensitization/challenge model and an adoptive transfer model, which involved the adoptive transfer of in vitro differentiated ovalbumin (OVA)-specific Th2 cells. Functional T-cell stimulation by lung dendritic cells (DCs) was determined both in vitro and in vivo, combined with a cytokine secretion analysis. A single mucosal application of BPP-OVA efficiently delivered antigen, led to TLR2-mediated DC activation, and resulted in OVA-specific T-cell proliferation via lung DCs in vivo. In alternative models of allergic airway disease, a single administration of BPP-OVA before OVA challenge (but not BPP alone) significantly reduced airway eosinophilia, most likely through altered antigen-specific T-cell stimulation via DCs. Analyses of adoptively transferred Th2-biased cells after BPP-OVA administration in vivo suggested that BPP-OVA guides antigen-specific Th2 cells to produce significantly higher amounts of IFN- upon allergen challenge. In conclusion, our data show for the first time that a single mucosal administration of a TLR 2/6 agonist-allergen conjugate can provoke IFN- responses in Th2-biased cells and alleviate allergic airway inflammation.
Phenotypic characterization of lung macrophages in asthmatic patients: overexpression of CCL17.	Studies with monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) and animal models have suggested a role for alternatively activated (M2) macrophages in asthmatic inflammation, but invivo evidence for this phenotype in human asthma is lacking.
Human pluripotent stem cell-derived mesenchymal stem cells prevent allergic airway inflammation in mice.	We previously found that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) exerted immunomodulatory effects on Th2-mediated allergic rhinitis in vitro. However, their contribution to the asthma and allergic rhinitis in animal models remains unclear. In this study, we developed a mouse model of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced allergic inflammation in both the upper and lower airways and evaluated the effects of the systemic administration of human iPSC-MSCs and bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) on allergic inflammation. Our results showed that treatments with both the iPSC-MSCs and BM-MSCs before the challenge phase protected the animals from the majority of allergy-specific pathological changes. This protection included an inhibition of inflammatory cell infiltration and mucus production in the lung, a reduction in eosinophil infiltration in the nose, and a decrease in inflammatory cell infiltration in both the bronchoalveolar and nasal lavage fluids. In addition, treatment with iPSC-MSCs or BM-MSCs before the challenge phase resulted in reduced serum levels of Th2 immunoglobulins (e.g., IgE) and decreased levels of Th2 cytokines including interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, or IL-13 in the bronchoalveolar and/or nasal lavage fluids. Similar therapeutic effects were observed when the animals were pretreated with human iPSC-MSCs before the sensitization phase. These data suggest that iPSC-MSCs may be used as an alternative strategy to adult MSCs in the treatment of asthma and allergic rhinitis.
Evaluation of Japanese encephalitis virus polytope DNA vaccine candidate in BALB/c mice.	Vaccination is the most important measure available to control the spread of Japanese encephalitis virus. We have previously described the in silico design, in vitro and primary in vivo analyses of polytope construct (P-JEV). Present study indicates that, P-JEV induces significant specific humoral and cellular immune responses in BALB/c mice. Mice were immunized intra-dermally with 1g plasmid DNA using gene gun and boosted twice. After the second booster, all the mice seroconverted and developed JEV neutralizing antibodies. Enhancement of post-challenge neutralizing antibody titres indicates the dominant role of anamnestic antibody-mediated protection in the mice JEV challenge model. Our study provides an insight demonstrating, intra-dermal DNA administration led to higher seroconversion rates and potentiated T(H)2 type of immune responses. The P-JEV construct is thus capable of generating protective neutralizing antibodies in mice and prime the immune system effectively against subsequent exposure to the virus.
Tissue remodeling in eosinophilic esophagitis.	Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a recently recognized, immune-mediated disease characterized clinically by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction and histologically by eosinophil-predominant inflammation. The chronic esophageal eosinophilia of EoE is associated with tissue remodeling that includes epithelial hyperplasia, subepithelial fibrosis, and hypertrophy of esophageal smooth muscle. This remodeling causes the esophageal rings and strictures that frequently complicate EoE and underlies the mucosal fragility that predisposes to painful mucosal tears in the EoE esophagus. The pathogenesis of tissue remodeling in EoE is not completely understood, but emerging studies suggest that secretory products of eosinophils and mast cells, as well as cytokines produced by other inflammatory cells, epithelial cells, and stromal cells in the esophagus, all contribute to the process. Interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13, Th2 cytokines overproduced in allergic disorders, have direct profibrotic and remodeling effects in EoE. The EoE esophagus exhibits increased expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-1, which is a potent activator of fibroblasts and a strong inducer of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. In addition, IL-4, IL-13, and TGF- all have a role in regulating periostin, an extracellular matrix protein that might influence remodeling by acting as a ligand for integrins, by its effects on eosinophils or by activating fibrogenic genes in the esophagus. Presently, few treatments have been shown to affect the tissue remodeling that causes EoE complications. This report reviews the potential roles of fibroblasts, eosinophils, mast cells, and profibrotic cytokines in esophageal remodeling in EoE and identifies potential targets for future therapies that might prevent EoE complications.
Epigenetic mechanisms and the development of asthma.	Asthma is heritable, influenced by the environment, and modified by in utero exposures and aging; all of these features are also common to epigenetic regulation. Furthermore, the transcription factors that are involved in the development of mature T cells that are critical to the T(H)2 immune phenotype in asthmatic patients are regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. Epigenetic marks (DNA methylation, modifications of histone tails, and noncoding RNAs) work in concert with other components of the cellular regulatory machinery to control the spatial and temporal levels of expressed genes. Technology to measure epigenetic marks on a genomic scale and comprehensive approaches to data analysis have recently emerged and continue to improve. Alterations in epigenetic marks have been associated with exposures relevant to asthma, particularly air pollution and tobacco smoke, as well as asthma phenotypes, in a few population-based studies. On the other hand, animal studies have begun to decipher the role of epigenetic regulation of gene expression associated with the development of allergic airway disease. Epigenetic mechanisms represent a promising line of inquiry that might, in part, explain the inheritance and immunobiology of asthma.
CD8 T cells induce T-bet-dependent migration toward CXCR3 ligands by differentiated B cells produced during responses to alum-protein vaccines.	Antibody-forming cells (AFCs) expressing the chemokine receptor CXCR3 are recruited to sites of inflammation where they help clear pathogens but may participate in autoimmune diseases. Here we identify a mechanism that induces CXCR3 expression by AFC and germinal center (GC) B cells. This happens when CD8 T cells are recruited into CD4 T cell-dependent B-cell responses. Ovalbumin-specific CD4 T cells (OTII) were transferred alone or with ovalbumin-specific CD8 T cells (OTI) and the response to subcutaneous alum-precipitated ovalbumin was followed in the draining lymph nodes. OTII cells alone induce T helper 2-associated class switching to IgG1, but few AFC or GC B cells express CXCR3. By contrast, OTI-derived IFN- induces most responding GC B cells and AFCs to express high levels of CXCR3, and diverse switching to IgG2a, IgG2b, with some IgG1. Up-regulation of CXCR3 by GC B cells and AFCs and their migration toward its ligand CXCL10 are shown to depend on B cells' intrinsic T-bet, a transcription factor downstream of the IFN-R signaling. This model clarifies how precursors of long-lived AFCs and memory B cells acquire CXCR3 that causes their migration to inflammatory foci.
Enforced expression of roquin protein in T cells exacerbates the incidence and severity of experimental arthritis.	To investigate the role of Roquin, a RING-type ubiquitin ligase family member, we used transgenic mice with enforced Roquin expression in T cells, with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). Wild-type (WT) and Roquin transgenic (Tg) mice were immunized with bovine type II collagen (CII). Arthritis severity was evaluated by clinical score; histopathologic CIA severity; proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine levels; anti-CII antibody levels; and populations of Th1, Th2, germinal center B cells, and follicular helper T cells in CIA. T cell proliferation in vitro and cytokine levels were determined to assess the response to CII. Roquin Tg mice developed more severe CIA and joint destruction compared with WT mice. Production of TNF-, IFN-, IL-6, and pathogenic anti-collagen CII-specific IgG and IgG2a antibodies was increased in Roquin Tg mice. In addition, in vitro T cell assays showed increased proliferation and proinflammatory cytokine production in response to CII as a result of enforced Roquin expression in T cells. Furthermore, the Th1/Th2 balance was altered by an increased Th1 and decreased Th2 population. These findings suggest that overexpression of Roquin exacerbates the development of CIA and that enforced expression of Roquin in T cells may promote autoimmune diseases such as CIA.
Breast regression protein-39 (BRP-39) promotes dendritic cell maturation in vitro and enhances Th2 inflammation in murine model of asthma.	To determine the roles of breast regression protein-39 (BRP-39) in regulating dendritic cell maturation and in pathology of acute asthma.
Heat shock proteins enriched-promastigotes of Leishmania major inducing Th2 immune response in BALB/c mice.	Heat shock proteins (HSP) are highly conserved molecules with many immunological functions. They are highly immunogenic with important role in cancer immunotherapy and in vaccine development against infectious diseases. As adjuvant, HSP can augment the immunogenicity of weak antigens and can stimulate antigen presenting cells. Although vaccines have been successful for many infectious diseases, progress in leishmaniasis has not been achieved. In this report, the protective effect of HSP-enriched soluble leishmania antigen (SLA) was determined.
Protective role of P2Y2 receptor against lung infection induced by pneumonia virus of mice.	ATP released in the early inflammatory processes acts as a danger signal by binding to purinergic receptors expressed on immune cells. A major contribution of the P2Y(2) receptor of ATP/UTP to dendritic cell function and Th2 lymphocyte recruitment during asthmatic airway inflammation was previously reported. We investigated here the involvement of P2Y(2) receptor in lung inflammation initiated by pneumonia virus of mice infection. We demonstrated that P2Y(2) (-/-) mice display a severe increase in morbidity and mortality rate in response to the virus. Lower survival of P2Y(2) (-/-) mice was not significantly correlated with excessive inflammation despite the higher level of neutrophil recruiters in their bronchoalveolar fluids. Interestingly, we observed reduced ATP level and lower numbers of dendritic cells, CD4(+) T cells and CD8(+) T cells in P2Y(2) (-/-) compared to P2Y(2) (+/+) infected lungs. Lower level of IL-12 and higher level of IL-6 in bronchoalveolar fluid support an inhibition of Th1 response in P2Y(2) (-/-) infected mice. Quantification of DC recruiter expression revealed comparable IP-10 and MIP-3 levels but a reduced BRAK level in P2Y(2) (-/-) compared to P2Y(2) (+/+) bronchoalveolar fluids. The increased morbidity and mortality of P2Y(2) (-/-) mice could be the consequence of a lower viral clearance leading to a more persistent viral load correlated with the observed higher viral titer. The decreased viral clearance could result from the defective Th1 response to PVM with a lack of DC and T cell infiltration. In conclusion, P2Y(2) receptor, previously described as a target in cystic fibrosis therapy and as a mediator of Th2 response in asthma, may also regulate Th1 response protecting mice against lung viral infection.
Effects of small intestinal submucosa (SIS) on the murine innate immune microenvironment induced by heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus.	The use of biological scaffold materials for wound healing and tissue remodeling has profoundly impacted regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. The porcine-derived small intestinal submucosa (SIS) is a licensed bioscaffold material regularly used in wound and tissue repair, often in contaminated surgical fields. Complications and failures due to infection of this biomaterial have therefore been a major concern and challenge. SIS can be colonized and infected by wound-associated bacteria, particularly Staphylococcus aureus. In order to address this concern and develop novel intervention strategies, the immune microenvironment orchestrated by the combined action of S. aureus and SIS should be critically evaluated. Since the outcome of tissue remodeling is largely controlled by the local immune microenvironment, we assessed the innate immune profile in terms of cytokine/chemokine microenvironment and inflammasome-responsive genes. BALB/c mice were injected intra-peritoneally with heat-killed S. aureus in the presence or absence of SIS. Analyses of cytokines, chemokines and microarray profiling of inflammasome-related genes were done using peritoneal lavages collected 24 hours after injection. Results showed that unlike SIS, the S. aureus-SIS interactome was characterized by a Th1-biased immune profile with increased expressions of IFN-, IL-12 and decreased expressions of IL-4, IL-13, IL-33 and IL-6. Such modulation of the Th1/Th2 axis can greatly facilitate graft rejections. The S. aureus-SIS exposure also augmented the expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines like IL-1, Tnf-, CD30L, Eotaxin and Fractalkine. This heightened inflammatory response caused by S. aureus contamination could enormously affect the biocompatibility of SIS. However, the mRNA expressions of many inflammasome-related genes like Nlrp3, Aim2, Card6 and Pycard were down-regulated by heat-killed S. aureus with or without SIS. In summary, our study explored the innate immune microenvironment induced by the combined exposure of SIS and S. aureus. These results have practical implications in developing strategies to contain infection and promote successful tissue repair.
Interferon-1b increases Th2 response in neuromyelitis optica.	A Japanese randomized controlled study showed that Interferon  (IFN-1b) therapy is clinically effective in decreasing the frequency of attacks in multiple sclerosis (MS), even in optico-spinal MS (OSMS). However, recent studies have shown that IFN- (IFN-1a/IFN-1b) treatment was not effective in neuromyelitis optica (NMO) patients and that the diminished benefit of IFN- treatment in NMO may be due to different immune responses to IFN-. We determined longitudinally the expression of CCR5, CXCR3 and CCR4 on CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells in the blood from patients with NMO and MS treated with IFN-1b. During a 12-month period of IFN-1b therapy, the annualized relapse rate decreased in MS patients but not in NMO patients. There was no significant difference in the expression of the chemokine receptors between NMO and MS at baseline. The percentages of CD4+CCR5+ and CD4+CXCR3+ T cells, representative of the Th1 response, were decreased in both NMO and MS after treatment. The percentage of CD4+CCR4+ T cells, representative of the Th2 response, was decreased in MS, but those for NMO was significantly increased compared with the pretreatment levels. Our results indicate that IFN-1b-induced up-modulation of the Th2 response in NMO patients may be the source of differences in the therapeutic response to IFN-1b therapy. In the present study, Th2 predominance is involved in the pathogenesis of NMO.
Human IL-31 is induced by IL-4 and promotes TH2-driven inflammation.	The pruritic cytokine IL-31 has been shown to be expressed by murine activated effector T Lymphocytes of a TH2 phenotype. Like IL-17 and IL-22, IL-31 is a tissue-signaling cytokine the receptor of which is mainly found on nonimmune cells. An overabundance of IL-31 has been shown in patients with atopic disorders, including dermatitis, as well as asthma, and therefore represents a promising drug target, although its regulation in the context of the human TH2 clusters is not yet known.
DermAll nanomedicine for allergen-specific immunotherapy.	Allergen-specific immunotherapy (ASIT) the only disease-modifying treatment for IgE-mediated allergies is characterized with long treatment duration and high risk of side effects. We investigated the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of a novel ASIT, called DermAll, in an experimental allergic rhinitis model. We designed and characterized DermAll-OVA, a synthetic plasmid pDNA/PEIm nanomedicine expressing ovalbumin (OVA) as model allergen. DermAll-OVA was administered topically with DermaPrep device to target Langerhans cells. To detect the clinical efficacy of DermAll ASIT we quantified the nasal symptoms and characterized the immunomodulatory activity of DermAll ASIT by measuring cytokine secretion after OVA-stimulation of splenocytes and antibodies from the sera. In allergic mice DermAll ASIT was as safe as Placebo, balanced the allergen-induced pathogenic TH2-polarized immune responses, and decreased the clinical symptoms by 52% [32%, 70%] compared to Placebo. These studies suggest that DermAll ASIT is safe and should significantly improve the immunopathology and symptoms of allergic diseases.
Increased CD45RO+ CD62L+ CD4+ T-cell subpopulation responsible for Th2 response in Kimura's disease.	Kimura's disease is characterized by subcutaneous masses, eosinophilia, and markedly elevated serum immunoglobulin E, suggesting that T helper (Th)2 cells may play a role in the pathogenesis. We investigated Th2 cytokine synthesis by mononuclear cells and possible Th1/Th2 subpopulations in Kimura's disease. Peripheral blood samples were obtained from seven patients with Kimura's disease and CD4(+) T-cell subpopulations separated by CD45RO and CD62L were isolated. Purified cells were stimulated with PHA or anti-CD3 mAb, and the cytokine levels were measured by Cytometric Bead Array kit. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells in the majority of the patients produced Th2 cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 or GM-CSF higher than those of controls. The ratio of CD45RO(+) CD62L(+) cells in CD4(+) T cells was increased in six out of seven patients compared to age-matched controls. Especially, patient 1 had remarkably increased levels of CD45RO(+) CD62L(+) population in CD4(+) T cells. In addition, IL-4 production levels by CD45RO(+) CD62L(+) CD4(+) T cells of patients 1 and 2 were higher than those of their CD45RO(+) CD62L(-) CD4(+) T cells, in the same manner as those by a normal control. Taken together, the synthesis of Th2 cytokines and CD62L-positive subpopulation in CD45RO(+) CD4(+) T cells, which may represent characteristics of Th2, are increased in patients with Kimura's disease, suggesting that deviation to Th2 may involve in pathogenesis of the disease. 
Intrinsic atopic dermatitis shows similar TH2 and higher TH17 immune activation compared with extrinsic atopic dermatitis.	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is classified as extrinsic and intrinsic, representing approximately 80% and 20% of patients with the disease, respectively. Although sharing a similar clinical phenotype, only extrinsic AD is characterized by high serum IgE levels. Because most patients with AD exhibit high IgE levels, an "allergic"/IgE-mediated disease pathogenesis was hypothesized. However, current models associate AD with T-cell activation, particularly TH2/TH22 polarization, and epidermal barrier defects.
Thymic stromal lymphopoietin receptor blockade reduces allergic inflammation in a cynomolgus monkey model of asthma.	Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) pathway blockade is a potential strategy for asthma treatment because the main activities of TSLP are activation of myeloid dendritic cells (mDCs) and modulation of cytokine production by mast cells. TSLP-activated mDCs prime the differentiation of naive T cells into inflammatory TH2 cells.
STAT6 controls the number of regulatory T cells in vivo, thereby regulating allergic lung inflammation.	STAT6 plays a central role in IL-4-mediated allergic responses. Several studies indicate that regulatory T cells (Tregs) can be modulated by IL-4 in vitro. We previously showed that STAT6(-/-) mice are highly resistant to allergic lung inflammation even when wild-type Th2 effectors were provided and that they have increased numbers of Tregs. However, the role of STAT6 in modulating Tregs in vivo during allergic lung inflammation has not been thoroughly investigated. To examine Treg and STAT6 interaction during allergic inflammation, STAT6(-/-), STAT6xRAG2(-/-), and RAG2(-/-) mice were subjected to OVA sensitization and challenge following adoptive transfer of OVA-specific, wild-type Th2 effectors with or without prior Treg depletion/inactivation, using anti-CD25 (PC61). As expected, STAT6(-/-) mice were highly resistant to airway inflammation and remodeling. In contrast, allergic lung inflammation was partially restored in STAT6(-/-) mice treated with PC61 to levels observed in STAT6xRAG2(-/-) mice. In some cases, STAT6xRAG2(-/-) mice were also given natural Tregs along with Th2 effectors. Adoptive transfer of natural Tregs caused a substantial reduction in bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophil composition and suppressed airway remodeling and T cell migration into the lung in STAT6xRAG2(-/-) mice to levels comparable to those in STAT6(-/-) mice. These results demonstrate the STAT6-dependent suppression of Tregs in vivo to promote allergic airway inflammation.
An efficient single prime protocol for the induction of antigen-induced airways inflammation.	There are a number of mouse models of allergic airway inflammation used to delineate various aspects of asthma. One of the hurdles with using mice is their natural resistance to developing a Th2 allergic response. This is often overcome by double priming with the allergen and an adjuvant. Here we report on an efficient 11day, single antigen/alum priming protocol that is sufficient to sensitise mice for the development of Th2-mediated inflammation in the lung following antigen challenge. 
Involvement of fibrocytes in allergen-induced T cell responses and rhinovirus infections in asthma.	Allergen exposure and rhinovirus infections that propagate from the upper to the lower airways are the most frequent causes of asthma exacerbation. In patients at increased risk of disease exacerbations, chronic airway inflammation is associated with the airway recruitment of circulating fibrocytes, bone marrow-derived CD34(+)CD45RO(+)CD11b(+)CD13(+)HLA-DR(+) progenitors that have antigen-presenting function and fibroblast-like properties. This study demonstrates that allergen-pulsed circulating fibrocytes from patients with allergic asthma are potent inducer of the predominant release of the T helper type (Th)2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-5 from autologous nave and memory CD4(+) T cells. This study also provides evidence that circulating fibrocytes from allergic asthmatics are susceptible to rhinovirus infection. Infected cells release high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines with minimal production of IFN-/. Moreover, allergen-pulsed fibrocytes support prolonged rhinovirus replication and release larger quantities of pro-inflammatory cytokines upon rhinovirus infection than unpulsed fibrocytes. Thus, fibrocytes may amplify allergen-induced, Th2 cell-driven inflammatory responses and promote further inflammation by functioning as a reservoir for rhinovirus replication in asthmatic airways. Through these mechanisms, fibrocytes may play an important role in the provocation of disease exacerbations. 
The composite cytokine p28/cytokine-like factor 1 sustains B cell proliferation and promotes plasma cell differentiation.	IL-27 is an APC-derived IL-6/IL-12 family composite cytokine with multiple functions such as regulation of Th1, Th17, and regulatory T cell differentiation, B cell proliferation, and Ig class switching. The IL-27 complex is formed by the association of the cytokine p28 with the soluble cytokine receptor EBV-induced gene 3 (EBI3). The IL-27 cytokine and soluble receptor subunits p28 and EBI3 can be secreted independently. The p28 subunit has been shown to have IL-27-independent biological activities. We previously demonstrated that p28 can form an alternative composite cytokine with the EBI3 homolog cytokine-like factor 1 (CLF; CRLF1). p28/CLF modulates NK cell activity and CD4 T cell cytokine production in vitro. In this study we used IL-6-dependent plasmacytoma cell line B9 and CD4 T cells from IL-27R-deficient mice to demonstrate that p28/CLF activates IL-27-unresponsive cells, indicating that p28/CLF and IL-27 signal through different receptors. The observation that p28/CLF, unlike IL-27, sustains B9 plasmacytoma cell proliferation prompted us to investigate the effects of p28/CLF on mouse B cells. We observed that p28/CLF induces IgM, IgG2c, and IgG1 production and plasma cell differentiation. p28/CLF therefore has the potential to contribute to B and plasma cell function, differentiation, and proliferation in normal and pathological conditions such as Castelman's disease and multiple myeloma. 
Regulation of Th1/Th2 cells in asthma development: a mathematical model.	Airway exposure levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) determine type I versus type II helper T cell induced experimental asthma. While high LPS levels induce Th1-dominant responses, low LPS levels derive Th2 cell induced asthma. The present paper develops a mathematical model of asthma development which focuses on the relative balance of Th1 and Th2 cell induced asthma. In the present work we represent the complex network of interactions between cells and molecules by a mathematical model. The model describes the behaviors of cells (Th0, Th1, Th2 and macrophages) and regulatory molecules (IFN- , IL-4, IL-12, TNF-) in response to high, intermediate, and low levels of LPS. The simulations show how variations in the levels of injected LPS affect the development of Th1 or Th2 cell responses through differential cytokine induction. The model also predicts the coexistence of these two types of response under certain biochemical and biomechanical conditions in the microenvironment. 
Expression of TIM-1 and TIM-3 in spleen mononuclear cells and their role in Th1 polarization in primary immune thrombocytopenia patients]	To explore the expression and clinical significance of T cell immunoglobulin mucin (TIM)-1, TIM-3 and T cell-specific transcription factors T-bet and GATA-3 in spleen mononuclear cells in patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP).
Helminth-excreted/secreted products are recognized by multiple receptors on DCs to block the TLR response and bias Th2 polarization in a cRAF dependent pathway.	Dendritic cells (DCs) recognize pathogens and initiate the T-cell response. The DC-helminth interaction induces an immature phenotype in DCs; as a result, these DCs display impaired responses to TLR stimulation and prime Th2-type responses. However, the DC receptors and intracellular pathways targeted by helminth molecules and their importance in the initiation of the Th2 response are poorly understood. In this report, we found that products excreted/secreted by Taenia crassiceps (TcES) triggered cRAF phosphorylation through MGL, MR, and TLR2. TcES interfered with the LPS-induced NFB p65 and p38 MAPK signaling pathways. In addition, TcES-induced cRAF signaling pathway was critical for down-regulation of the TLR-mediated DC maturation and secretion of IL-12 and TNF-. Finally, we show for the first time that blocking cRAF in DCs abolishes their ability to induce Th2 polarization in vitro after TcES exposure. Our data demonstrate a new mechanism by which helminths target intracellular pathways to block DC maturation and efficiently program Th2 polarization.
Effect of inhaled toluene diisocyanate on local immune response based on murine model for occupational asthma.	Highly reactive, low-molecular-weight diisocyanates (DIC) are the most commonly identified cause of occupational asthma (OA). Animal/clinical studies of DIC asthma have been more limited compared with atopic asthma, and an understanding of DIC pathogenesis is less clear. The aim of this study was to investigate in a mouse model, toluene diisocyanate (TDI, as 2,4-TDI isomer)-induced inflammatory reactions/cytokine profile changes in the lungs and accompanying changes in lymph node lymphocyte sub-populations. The study used female BALB/cJ/Han/IMP mice that were exposed first intra-nasally and then in an inhalation chamber to TDI or air. After the final exposure, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected and changes induced in inflammatory cell composition, levels of key cytokines (i.e. IL-4, TNF, IFN), and lymphocyte sub-population profiles within auricular lymph nodes, were evaluated. Total number of cells in the BALF of treated mice was significantly higher than in control mice BALF. There was also a significant increase in BALF neutrophil and eosinophil levels with TDI mice compared to in controls; lymphocyte and macrophage numbers did not significantly differ. A significant increase in BALF levels of TNF and IFN was also noted in mice exposed to TDI relative to levels in controls. BALF IL-4 levels were also increased, but the change from control was not significant. Lastly, the levels/percentages of CD3(+)CD4(+) (T-helper [TH]) lymphocytes significantly increased in the lymph nodes of TDI-exposed groups while those of the CD3(+)CD8(+) cells decreased as compared to in control mice. These studies, the first to assess TDI-induced changes in levels of three key cytokines in BALF in conjunction with changes in local lymph nodes following first an intra-nasal and then a general inhalation exposure to a low-level of TDI, confirm that TDI inhalation induces a pathology manifested by airway inflammation, TH cell-derived cytokine production, and shifts in lymph node lymphocytes sub-populations toward increases in TH cells.
Mesenchymal stem cells alleviate TNBS-induced colitis by modulating inflammatory and autoimmune responses.	To investigate the potential therapeutic effects of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), we transplanted MSCs into an experimental model of IBD.
IL4 and IL-17A provide a Th2/Th17-polarized inflammatory milieu in favor of TGF-1 to induce bronchial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT).	Severe asthma is a chronic airway disease characterized by the Th2/Th17-polarized inflammation along with permanent airway remodeling. Despite past extensive studies, the exact role for Th2 and Th17 cytokines in asthmatic pathoetiology, particularly in the pathogenesis of bronchial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), is yet to be fully addressed. We herein conducted studies in 16-HBE cells and demonstrated that Th2-derived IL-4 and Th17-derived IL-17A provide a chronic inflammatory milieu that favors TGF-1 to induce bronchial EMT. A synergic action was noted between TGF-1, IL-4 and IL-17A in terms of induction of EMT. IL-4 and IL-17A synergized with TGF-1 to induce epithelial cells re-entering cell cycle, and to promote epithelial to mesenchymal morphological transistion, and by which they enhanced the capacity of TGF-1 to suppress E-cadherin expression, and to induce a-SMA expression in epithelial cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that this synergic action is coordinated by the regulation of ERK1/2 activity. Our results not only provide a novel insight into the understanding of the mechanisms underlying airway remodeling in asthmatic condition, but also have the potential for developing more effective therapeutic strategies against severe asthmatics in clinical settings. 
An anti-human ICAM-1 antibody inhibits rhinovirus-induced exacerbations of lung inflammation.	Human rhinoviruses (HRV) cause the majority of common colds and acute exacerbations of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Effective therapies are urgently needed, but no licensed treatments or vaccines currently exist. Of the 100 identified serotypes, 90% bind domain 1 of human intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) as their cellular receptor, making this an attractive target for development of therapies; however, ICAM-1 domain 1 is also required for host defence and regulation of cell trafficking, principally via its major ligand LFA-1. Using a mouse anti-human ICAM-1 antibody (14C11) that specifically binds domain 1 of human ICAM-1, we show that 14C11 administered topically or systemically prevented entry of two major groups of rhinoviruses, HRV16 and HRV14, and reduced cellular inflammation, pro-inflammatory cytokine induction and virus load in vivo. 14C11 also reduced cellular inflammation and Th2 cytokine/chemokine production in a model of major group HRV-induced asthma exacerbation. Interestingly, 14C11 did not prevent cell adhesion via human ICAM-1/LFA-1 interactions in vitro, suggesting the epitope targeted by 14C11 was specific for viral entry. Thus a human ICAM-1 domain-1-specific antibody can prevent major group HRV entry and induction of airway inflammation in vivo. 
IL-1 suppresses innate IL-25 and IL-33 production and maintains helminth chronicity.	Approximately 2 billion people currently suffer from intestinal helminth infections, which are typically chronic in nature and result in growth retardation, vitamin A deficiency, anemia and poor cognitive function. Such chronicity results from co-evolution between helminths and their mammalian hosts; however, the molecular mechanisms by which these organisms avert immune rejection are not clear. We have found that the natural murine helminth, Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri (Hp) elicits the secretion of IL-1 in vivo and in vitro and that this cytokine is critical for shaping a mucosal environment suited to helminth chronicity. Indeed in mice deficient for IL-1 (IL-1(-/-)), or treated with the soluble IL-1R antagonist, Anakinra, helminth infection results in enhanced type 2 immunity and accelerated parasite expulsion. IL-1 acts to decrease production of IL-25 and IL-33 at early time points following infection and parasite rejection was determined to require IL-25. Taken together, these data indicate that Hp promotes the release of host-derived IL-1 that suppresses the release of innate cytokines, resulting in suboptimal type 2 immunity and allowing pathogen chronicity. 
In vitro Th1 and Th2 cell polarization is severely influenced by the initial ratio of nave and memory CD4+ T cells.	Robust in vitro systems are important in elucidating mechanisms regarding the heterogenetic nature of in vivo immune responses and contribute with knowledge to design good in vivo experiments. In this study, we show that initial Th1 and in particular Th2 polarization was negatively influenced by even small percentages (<5-10%) of "polluting" memory CD4+ T cells producing IL-5, IL-9, IL-10 IL-13, IL-21, IL-22, IL-31 and IFN- that are normally found after standard immunomagnetic bead separation of nave CD4+ T cell. By using an alternative protocol for immunomagnetic bead separation of nave CD4+ T cells, we found that cultures of the obtained >99% nave CD4+ T cells resulted in better Th1 and Th2 polarization with significant reduced fractions of IL-4+ and IFN-+ CD4+ T cells, respectively. Moreover, the Th2 primed >99% nave CD4+ T cells showed significantly higher ratio of IL-4+:IFN-+ (>4 fold) and GATA-3:+T-bet+ (>3 fold) CD4+ T cells when compared with the standard purified >90-95% nave CD4+ T cells primed under the same culture conditions. This suggests immunomagnetic bead separation, a low cost and easy available technique, with few modifications to the manufacturer's protocol as an attractive alternative for laboratories not having a cell sorter. Taken together, we report that it is essential to use rigorously purified (>99%) nave CD4+ T cells for optimal initial in vitro Th1 and Th2 priming. 
Interleukin-17 signalling in a murine model of mild chronic asthma.	The role of Th17 cell-derived cytokines in the pathogenesis of airway inflammation and remodelling in mild asthma remains unclear. We investigated this in a mouse model which reproduces most of the features of the human disease.
Hyperthyroid monkeys: a nonhuman primate model of experimental Graves' disease.	Graves' disease (GD) is a common organ-specific autoimmune disease with the prevalence between 0.5 and 2% in women. Several lines of evidence indicate that the shed A-subunit rather than the full-length thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) is the autoantigen that triggers autoimmunity and leads to hyperthyroidism. We have for the first time induced GD in female rhesus monkeys, which exhibit greater similarity to patients with GD than previous rodent models. After final immunization, the monkeys injected with adenovirus expressing the A-subunit of TSHR (A-sub-Ad) showed some characteristics of GD. When compared with controls, all the test monkeys had significantly higher TSHR antibody levels, half of them had increased total thyroxine (T) and free T, and 50% developed goiter. To better understand the underlying mechanisms, quantitative studies on subpopulations of CD4+T helper cells were carried out. The data indicated that this GD model involved a mixed Th1 and Th2 response. Declined Treg proportions and increased Th17:Treg ratio are also observed. Our rhesus monkey model successfully mimicked GD in humans in many aspects. It would be a useful tool for furthering our understanding of the pathogenesis of GD and would potentially shorten the distance toward the prevention and treatment of this disease in human.
Lack of functional TSLP receptors mitigates Th2 polarization and the establishment and growth of 4T1 primary breast tumours but has different effects on tumour quantities in the lung and brain.	The 4T1 mammary carcinoma cell line produces TSLP. We had hypothesized that TSLP promotes the development of a permissive environment for the growth and metastasis of primary tumour and that this is associated with a Th2-polarized antitumour immune response. We found that, in Tslpr(-/-) mice, the mean tumour diameters were smaller from days 27 to 40, and relatively fewer tumour cells were present in the lung, compared with wild-type mice. Polarization of the Th2 cytokine profile was also diminished in Tslpr(-/-) mice. These findings confirmed those reported previously by others. Here, we further show that primary tumours are established less often in Tslpr(-/-) mice and that, unexpectedly, the relative number of tumour cells in the brain is greater in Tslpr(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. Findings from our cytotoxicity assays show that 4T1-directed lysis is undetectable in both WT and Tslpr(-/-) mice, ruling out the possibility that altered cytotoxic responses in Tslpr(-/-) mice are responsible for the differences we observed. In a human tissue microarray, positive staining for TSLP was seen in tumour cells from breast cancer tissue, but it was also seen in normal glandular epithelial cells from normal breast tissue, which has not been shown before. Thus, our findings provide new insight into the effects of TSLP in metastatic breast cancer. 
Innate immune cells in asthma.	Asthma is an inflammatory disease of the airways associated with a T helper (Th)2 response. Such a response in the lungs requires complex interactions between innate cells and structural cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal during sensitization to allergens but clearly require epithelium-derived signals to become activated. Epithelial cells also contribute to the activation and the survival of mast cells (MCs), basophils, and eosinophils and group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s). In turn, these innate cells can activate DCs to sustain Th2 immunity. Here, we review the role played by these different populations of immune cells in the pathogenesis of asthma and how they interact to orchestrate Th2 immunity. 
Aged mice exhibit a severely diminished CD8 T cell response following respiratory syncytial virus infection.	Respiratory virus infections in the elderly result in increased rates of hospitalization and death. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of severe virus-induced respiratory disease in individuals over the age of 65. CD8 T cells play a critical role in mediating RSV clearance. While it is clear that T cell immunity declines with age, it is not clear to what extent the CD8 T cell response to RSV is altered. Using aged BALB/c mice, we demonstrated that RSV-specific CD8 T cell responses were significantly reduced in the lungs of aged mice at the peak of the T cell response and that this decrease correlated with delayed viral clearance. Despite a decrease in the overall numbers of RSV-specific CD8 T cells during acute infection, their capacity to produce effector cytokines was not impaired. Following viral clearance, the RSV-specific memory CD8 T cells were similar in total number and phenotype in young and aged mice. Furthermore, following infection with a heterologous pathogen expressing an RSV epitope, RSV-specific memory CD8 T cells exhibited similar activation and ability to provide early control of the infection in young and aged mice. These data demonstrate a decrease in the capacity of aged mice to induce a high-magnitude acute CD8 T cell response, leading to prolonged viral replication, which may contribute to the increased disease severity of RSV infection observed for aged individuals. 
Diesel exhaust particle induction of IL-17A contributes to severe asthma.	IL-17A has been implicated in severe forms of asthma. However, the factors that promote IL-17A production during the pathogenesis of severe asthma remain undefined. Diesel exhaust particles (DEPs) are a major component of traffic-related air pollution and are implicated in asthma pathogenesis and exacerbation.
Measures of gene expression in sputum cells can identify TH2-high and TH2-low subtypes of asthma.	The 3-gene signature of periostin, chloride channel accessory 1 (CLCA1), and Serpin 2 (SERPINB2) in airway epithelial brushings is used to classify asthma into TH2-high and TH2-low endotypes. Little is known about the utility of gene profiling in sputum as a molecular phenotyping method.
Hyperthyroid state or in vitro thyroxine treatment modulates TH1/TH2 responses during exposure to HSV-1 antigens.	Increasingly in recent years, thyroid hormones (THs) have been considered to be important regulators of the immune system. However, their roles in host defense against viral infections are not clearly established. Therefore, this study was undertaken to examine proliferative activity and cytokine production by lymphocytes isolated from hyperthyroid and euthyroid Balb/c mice in response to herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1). Lymphocytes of hyperthyroid animals showed a significantly higher rate of proliferation and interferon (IFN)- production when compared with that by lymphocytes from euthyroid mice. In vitro thyroxine (T4) treatment was similarly effective in the potentiation of proliferation, but not IFN production, by euthyroid lymphocytes. Furthermore, the hyperthyroid state significantly attenuated ConA-, but not HSV-1-, induced interleukin (IL)-10 release; in vitro T4 treatment synergized this effect. These findings suggest that supra-physiologic TH levels (i.e. as occur in hyper-thyroid states) or in vitro TH treatment modulate T-helper (TH)1/TH2 lymphocyte responses and thereby amplifies host defenses against viral infections. One may also conclude that THs may have a potential application in viral immunization and/or treatment of viral infections.
Cutting edge: identification of the thymic stromal lymphopoietin-responsive dendritic cell subset critical for initiation of type 2 contact hypersensitivity.	The cytokine thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) has been implicated in the initiation and progression of allergic inflammation through its ability to activate dendritic cells (DCs). However, the identity of the DC subset that responds to TSLP is not known. In this study we use a CCL17 reporter strain to identify the TSLP-responsive DC subset. In vitro, TSLP induced CD11b(high) DCs to express CCL17, to increase CCR7-mediated migration activity, and to drive Th2 differentiation of naive CD4 T cells. In vivo, following skin sensitization, we found that a subset of Ag-bearing CCL17(+)CD11b(high) migratory DCs, but not Ag-bearing CCL17(-) migratory DCs, in skin lymph nodes were capable of driving Th2 differentiation and were dramatically reduced in TSLPR-deficient mice. Taken together, these results demonstrate that TSLP activated a subset of CD11b(+) DCs in the skin to produce CCL17, upregulate CCR7, and migrate to the draining lymph node to initiate Th2 differentiation. 
Biologic therapy for atopic asthma and beyond.	Most asthma patients are easily managed with a standard combination of therapies consisting of inhaled controller and reliever drugs, but there remains a large unmet need at the severe end of the disease spectrum. For these patients, development of safer and more effective therapies for asthmatic patients with severe refractory disease remains a top priority. Here, drugs in development for the severe asthma sufferers and their specific mechanism-based pharmacological rationale will be reviewed with a focus on biologics. A systematic search of the literature was made using Medline, and publications were selected on the basis of their relevance to the topic. Here, the authors will review the existing efficacy and safety data from clinical trials of some of the new biologic therapies that are in development for severe asthma.
Interferon- and interleukin-4 detected in serum and saliva from patients with oral lichen planus.	Our previous salivary study had demonstrated an apparent T helper 2 (Th2)-predominance in saliva of oral lichen planus (OLP) patients and suggested a potential of salivary interleukin-4 (IL-4) as a biomarker for monitoring disease severity. To further determine the consistency of Th1/Th2 bias of OLP, this study investigated the expression profile of interferon- (IFN-) and IL-4 in serum and the relationship of the serum levels of these cytokines with their saliva partners. Sixty ethnic Chinese patients with OLP (40 of the erythematous/ulcerative form and 20 of the reticular form) were recruited for this study, with 40 age-sex-matched healthy volunteers as control group. IFN- and IL-4 levels in serum and paired saliva samples were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. OLP patient showed a low-level IFN- but high-level IL-4 expression profile in both serum and saliva, with a lower IFN-/IL-4 ratio. Serum IL-4 level in the erythematous/ulcerative group was significantly higher than that in the reticular group. Serum levels of IFN- and IL-4 were significantly and positively correlated with their saliva partners. These results provided more evidence for Th2 cytokine-predominant immune imbalance in OLP, as well as the potential of IL-4 as the biomarker for monitoring severity of OLP. 
Regulatory T cells use "Itch" to control asthma.	Regulatory T cells (Tregs) control type 2 T helper cell-mediated (Th2-mediated) lung inflammation, but the molecular mechanisms by which Tregs execute this activity remain elusive. In this issue of the JCI, Jin et al. reveal that Itch, a HECT-type E3 ubiquitin ligase in Tregs, plays a specific role in restraining Th2 cell responses. This finding has important implications for understanding the pathogenesis of allergy and asthma. 
Natural killer T cells in advanced melanoma patients treated with tremelimumab.	A significant barrier to effective immune clearance of cancer is loss of antitumor cytotoxic T cell activity. Antibodies to block pro-apoptotic/downmodulatory signals to T cells are currently being tested. Because invariant natural killer T cells (iNKT) can regulate the balance of Th1/Th2 cellular immune responses, we characterized the frequencies of circulating iNKT cell subsets in 21 patients with melanoma who received the anti-CTLA4 monoclonal antibody tremelimumab alone and 8 patients who received the antibody in combination with MART-126-35 peptide-pulsed dendritic cells (MART-1/DC). Blood T cell phenotypes and functionality were characterized by flow cytometry before and after treatment. iNKT cells exhibited the central memory phenotype and showed polyfunctional cytokine production. In the combination treatment group, high frequencies of pro-inflammatory Th1 iNKT CD8(+) cells correlated with positive clinical responses. These results indicate that iNKT cells play a critical role in regulating effective antitumor T cell activity. 
Early-life exposure to combustion-derived particulate matter causes pulmonary immunosuppression.	Elevated levels of combustion-derived particulate matter (CDPM) are a risk factor for the development of lung diseases such as asthma. Studies have shown that CDPM exacerbates asthma, inducing acute lung dysfunction and inflammation; however, the impact of CDPM exposure on early immunological responses to allergens remains unclear. To determine the effects of early-life CDPM exposure on allergic asthma development in infants, we exposed infant mice to CDPM and then induced a mouse model of asthma using house dust mite (HDM) allergen. Mice exposed to CDPM+HDM failed to develop a typical asthma phenotype including airway hyper-responsiveness, T-helper type 2 (Th2) inflammation, Muc5ac expression, eosinophilia, and HDM-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) compared with HDM-exposed mice. Although HDM-specific IgE was attenuated, total IgE was twofold higher in CDPM+HDM mice compared with HDM mice. We further demonstrate that CDPM exposure during early life induced an immunosuppressive environment in the lung, concurrent with increases in tolerogenic dendritic cells and regulatory T cells, resulting in the suppression of Th2 responses. Despite having early immunosuppression, these mice develop severe allergic inflammation when challenged with allergen as adults. These findings demonstrate a mechanism whereby CDPM exposure modulates adaptive immunity, inducing specific antigen tolerance while amplifying total IgE, and leading to a predisposition to develop asthma upon rechallenge later in life. 
Elevated serum IL-17A but not IL-6 in glioma versus meningioma and schwannoma.	There is a Th1/Th2 cytokine imbalance and expression of IL-17 in patients with brain tumours. We aimed to compare the levels of IL-17A and IL-6 in sera of glioma, meningioma and schwannoma patients as well as in healthy individuals.
New kids on the block: group 2 innate lymphoid cells and type 2 inflammation in the lung.	Inflammatory diseases of the lung are a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Allergic lung inflammation often stems from the overproduction of type 2 cytokines. The resulting type 2 inflammation is frequently caused by an inappropriate immune response to relatively harmless allergens and often associates with asthma. Until recently, the primary contributors of type 2 cytokines were believed to be T helper (Th) 2 cells. This concept was challenged by the discovery of group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) in the lung, which represent a major source of type 2 cytokines during the acute inflammatory phase. Recent advances in our understanding of the regulation and development of ILC2 have redrawn the roadmap of type 2 inflammation. Indeed, ILC2s appear to be critical for the induction of adaptive immunity and, thus, play a central role for immune regulation. As one of the first responders in the entire Th2 cascade, ILC2 might serve as the early tile in a Th2 domino effect. As such, ILC2s present an attractive target for future drug development. 
Th1/Th2 polarization in tonsillar lymphocyte form patients with IgA nephropathy.	Imbalance of Th1/Th2 pro-inflammatory cytokines plays an important role in the development and progression of IgA nephropathy (IgAN). Clinical development and exacerbation of IgAN are frequently preceded by episodes of upper respiratory tract infection, and palatine tonsils represent the predominant immunocompetent tissue of the upper respiratory tract. This study examined tonsillar lymphocytes of IgAN who suffered from tonsillitis (n=22), and using tonsils derived from patients with chronic tonsillitis (n=24) but without renal disease as a control. We identified a polarization toward Th2 response in tonsils of IgAN patients. TH0 cells are differentially mobilized during contact sensitization and by adjuvants such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that induce T-helper type 1 (Th1) responses, or -hemolytic streptococcus (HS) that induces T-helper type 2 (Th2) responses. Th1:Th2 ratio is correlated with proteinuria and renal pathologic changes in IgAN group. Our study suggests that IgAN is associated with the change in Th1/Th2 balance in favor of Th2 lymphocytes.
Parasitic worms and allergies in childhood: insights from population studies 2008-2013.	The last few decades have seen a marked increase in the global prevalence of allergic diseases particularly among children. Among the factors attributed to this rise has been reduced exposure to pathogens during childhood leading to insufficient maturation of the regulatory arm of developing immune systems. Over the years, a number of epidemiological studies have observed an inverse relationship between parasitic worm (helminth) infections and allergies. The purpose of this review is to highlight insights from population studies conducted among children published between 2008 and 2013 that explore the complex dynamics between helminth infections and allergies. These insights include the effect of anthelmintic treatment on allergic responses, an elucidation of immune mechanisms and an examination of helminth-induced immunoglobulin E cross-reactivity. A better understanding of the relationship between helminths and allergies is imperative as research directions move toward harnessing the therapeutic potential of helminths and their products in the treatment of allergic disorders. 
A sensory neuron-expressed IL-31 receptor mediates T helper cell-dependent itch: Involvement of TRPV1 and TRPA1.	Although the cytokine IL-31 has been implicated in inflammatory and lymphoma-associated itch, the cellular basis for its pruritic action is yet unclear.
MicroRNA-155 is essential for T(H)2-mediated allergen-induced eosinophilic inflammation in the lung.	Allergic asthma is a chronic disease of the conducting airways characterized by T(H)2 inflammation and tissue remodeling after exposure to inhaled allergens. Although the T(H)2 profile is undisputed, the underlying molecular mechanisms leading to this abnormal T(H)2 profile remain largely unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs that are important regulators of gene expression in the immune system. However, the role of miRNAs, specifically miR-155, in the regulation of allergic airway inflammation is unexplored.
Basophils as a primary inducer of the T helper type 2 immunity in ovalbumin-induced allergic airway inflammation.	Antigen-induced allergic airway inflammation is mediated by T helper type 2 (Th2) cells and their cytokines, but the mechanism that initiates the Th2 immunity is not fully understood. Recent studies show that basophils play important roles in initiating Th2 immunity in some inflammatory models. Here we explored the role of basophils in ovalbumin (OVA) -induced airway allergic inflammation in BALB/c mice. We found that OVA sensitization and challenge resulted in a significant increase in the amount of basophils in blood and lung, along with the up-regulation of activation marker of CD200R. However, depletion of basophils with MAR-1 or Ba103 antibody attenuated airway inflammation, represented by the significantly decreased amount of the Th2 subset in spleen and draining lymph nodes, interlukin-4 level in lung and OVA-special immunoglobulin E (sIgE) levels in serum. On the other hand, adoptive transfer of basophils from OVA-challenged lung tissue to naive BALB/c mice provoked the Th2 immune response. In addition, pulmonary basophils from OVA-challenged mice were able to uptake DQ-OVA and express MHC class II molecules and CD40 in vivo, as well as to release interleukin-4 following stimulation by IgE-antigen complexes and promote Th2 polarization in vitro. These findings demonstrate that basophils may participate in Th2 immune responses in antigen-induced allergic airway inflammation and that they do so through facilitating antigen presentation and providing interleukin-4. 
Neutralizing Th2 inflammation in neonatal islets prevents -cell failure in adult IUGR rats.	Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) leads to development of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in adulthood. The mechanisms underlying this phenomenon have not been fully elucidated. Inflammation is associated with T2D; however, it is unknown whether inflammation is causal or secondary to the altered metabolic state. Here we show that the mechanism by which IUGR leads to the development of T2D in adulthood is via transient recruitment of T-helper 2 (Th) lymphocytes and macrophages in fetal islets resulting in localized inflammation. Although this immune response is short-lived, it results in a permanent reduction in islet vascularity and impaired insulin secretion. Neutralizing interleukin-4 antibody therapy given only in the newborn period ameliorates inflammation and restores vascularity and -cell function into adulthood, demonstrating a novel role for Th2 immune responses in the induction and progression of T2D. In the neonatal stage, inflammation and vascular changes are reversible and may define an important developmental window for therapeutic intervention to prevent adult-onset diabetes. 
The immunostimulatory effect of CpG oligodeoxynucleotides on peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy dogs and dogs with atopic dermatitis.	Synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides containing cytosine phosphatidyl guanine-rich DNA sequences (CpG ODN) can promote T-helper type 1 (Th1) responses, reduce T-helper type 2 (Th2) responses and/or favour regulatory T cell (Treg) responses in vitro and in vivo in humans and animals, by acting via Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9). Since CpG ODN can be used as immune-modulators for canine atopic dermatitis (AD), the aim of the current study was to investigate their immunostimulatory potential on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and their subsets, from AD and healthy dogs. Expression of TLR9 and cytokine mRNA in CpG ODN-stimulated and unstimulated cells was assessed by real-time quantitative PCR. Stimulation of PBMC with CpG class C ODN upregulated mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-6, interferon (IFN)- and IL-12p40 in AD dogs (P<0.05). It also stimulated IFN- protein secretion by PBMC of atopic and healthy dogs as measured by ELISA. In healthy dogs only, CpG class C ODN stimulated IFN- mRNA production by CD21(+) cells, and IL-10, IL-13 and IFN- mRNA production by CD3(+) cells. Increased expression of TLR9 mRNA was only observed in CD3(+) cells from AD dogs. No significantly increased gene expression was found in the CD11c(+) subset upon stimulation, for those genes evaluated. The results indicate that PBMC of healthy and atopic dogs are sensitive to stimulation with CpG ODN class C, with a resulting Th1 cytokine response in AD dogs and a mixed Th1/Th2/Treg cytokine response in healthy dogs. From this study, little evidence was found to support the use of CpG ODN class C for therapeutic purposes in dogs affected with AD.
T-helper 2 cytokines, transforming growth factor 1, and eosinophil products induce fibrogenesis and alter muscle motility in patients with eosinophilic esophagitis.	Patients with eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) often become dysphagic from the combination of organ fibrosis and motor abnormalities. We investigated mechanisms of dysphagia, assessing the response of human esophageal fibroblasts (HEFs), human esophageal muscle cells (HEMCs), and esophageal muscle strips to eosinophil-derived products.
Interleukin-4 and interleukin-13 compromise the sinonasal epithelial barrier and perturb intercellular junction protein expression.	Altered expression of epithelial intercellular junction proteins has been observed in sinonasal biopsies from nasal polyps and epithelial layers cultured from nasal polyp patients. These alterations comprise a "leaky" epithelial barrier phenotype. We hypothesize that T helper 2 (Th2) cytokines interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 modulate epithelial junction proteins, thereby contributing to the leaky epithelial barrier.
Knockdown of microRNA-155 in Kupffer cells results in immunosuppressive effects and prolongs survival of mouse liver allografts.	Our previous studies have shown that Kupffer cells (KCs) play a crucial role in postoperative pathologic changes. Recent reports have demonstrated that microRNA-155 (miR-155) is associated with inflammation and upregulation of proinflammatory mediators in the peripheral blood and allografts of transplant patients. However, the precise mechanism for this remains unknown.
Exposure to food allergens through inflamed skin promotes intestinal food allergy through the thymic stromal lymphopoietin-basophil axis.	Exposure to food allergens through a disrupted skin barrier has been recognized as a potential factor in the increasing prevalence of food allergy.
Progression of clinical tuberculosis is associated with a Th2 immune response signature in combination with elevated levels of SOCS3.	In this study, we explored the local cytokine/chemokine profiles in patients with active pulmonary or pleural tuberculosis (TB) using multiplex protein analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage and pleural fluid samples. Despite increased pro-inflammation compared to the uninfected controls; there was no up-regulation of IFN- or the T cell chemoattractant CCL5 in the lung of patients with pulmonary TB. Instead, elevated levels of IL-4 and CCL4 were associated with high mycobacteria-specific IgG titres as well as SOCS3 (suppressors of cytokine signaling) mRNA and progression of moderate-to-severe disease. Contrary, IL-4, CCL4 and SOCS3 remained low in patients with extrapulmonary pleural TB, while IFN-, CCL5 and SOCS1 were up-regulated. Both SOCS molecules were induced in human macrophages infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis in vitro. The Th2 immune response signature found in patients with progressive pulmonary TB could result from inappropriate cytokine/chemokine responses and excessive SOCS3 expression that may represent potential targets for clinical TB management. 
Exacerbation of allergic diseases by chemicals: role of TSLP.	Environmental chemicals, such as cigarette smoke and diesel exhaust, have been reported as risk factors that exacerbate allergic diseases. However, the exacerbation mechanisms induced by these chemicals are not yet fully understood. Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is produced mainly by epithelial cells and plays an important role as a master switch of allergic inflammation because it promotes Th2-type immune responses by inducing the activation of dendritic cells. Chemical compounds, such as formalin, have been shown to bind to proteins and form a new antigen that induces allergic responses. A second group of chemicals that enhance allergic responses to exogenous proteins have also been reported. We recently demonstrated that some of these chemicals induced TSLP production and may potentially augment Th2-type allergic responses. We proposed that TSLP-producing chemical compounds should be recognized as chemical allegro-accelerators. 
Escherichia coli heat-labile detoxified enterotoxin modulates dendritic cell function and attenuates allergic airway inflammation.	Various mutant forms of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) have been used as a mucosal adjuvant for vaccines, as it enhances immune responses to specific antigens including antigen-specific IgA antibodies when administrated intranasally or orally. We hypothesized that a detoxified mutant form of LT, LTS61K, could modulate dendritic cell (DC) function and alleviate allergen-induced airway inflammation. Two protocols, preventative and therapeutic, were used to evaluate the effects of LTS61K in a Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Der p)-sensitized and challenged murine model of asthma. LTS61K or Der p-primed bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) were also adoptively transferred into Der p-sensitized and challenged mice. Intranasal inoculations with LTS61K or LTS61K/Der p decreased allergen-induced airway inflammation and alleviated systemic TH2-type immune responses. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and sera from LTS61K/Der p-treated mice also had higher concentrations of Der p-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) A than those of other groups. In vitro, BMDCs stimulated with Der p underwent cellular maturation and secreted proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) In contrast, Der p-stimulated BMDCs that were pretreated with LTS61K showed decreased IL-6 and TNF production and were less mature. Intratracheal adoptive transfer of LTS61K- or LTS61K/Der p-primed BMDCs into Der p-sensitized mice reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and TH2-type chemokines in BALF and alleviated airway inflammation in treated mice. LTS61K influenced DC maturation and decreased inflammatory cytokine production. Moreover, LTS61K/Der p induced increased Der p-specific IgA production to decrease allergic TH2 cytokine responses and alleviated airway inflammation in Der p-sensitized mice. These results suggest that the immunomodulatory effects of LTS61K may have clinical applications for allergy and asthma treatment. 
Transcriptional profiles of cytokine/chemokine factors of immune cell-homing to the parasitic lesions: a comprehensive one-year course study in the liver of E. multilocularis-infected mice.	Pathogenesis of chronically developing alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is characterized by a continuous, granulomatous, periparasitic infiltration of immune cells surrounding the metacestode of Echinococcus multilocularis (E.multilocularis) in the affected liver. A detailed cytokine and chemokine profile analysis of the periparasitic infiltrate in the liver has, however, not yet been carried out in a comprehensive way all along the whole course of infection in E. multilocularis intermediate hosts. We thus assessed the hepatic gene expression profiles of 18 selected cytokine and chemokine genes using qRT-PCR in the periparasitic immune reaction and the subsequent adjacent, not directly affected, liver tissue of mice from day 2 to day 360 post intra-hepatic injection of metacestode. DNA microarray analysis was also used to get a more complete picture of the transcriptional changes occurring in the liver surrounding the parasitic lesions. Profiles of mRNA expression levels in the hepatic parasitic lesions showed that a mixed Th1/Th2 immune response, characterized by the concomitant presence of IL-12, IFN- and IL-4, was established very early in the development of E. multilocularis. Subsequently, the profile extended to a combined tolerogenic profile associating IL-5, IL-10 and TGF-. IL-17 was permanently expressed in the liver, mostly in the periparasitic infiltrate; this was confirmed by the increased mRNA expression of both IL-17A and IL-17F from a very early stage, with a subsequent decrease of IL-17A after this first initial rise. All measured chemokines were significantly expressed at a given stage of infection; their expression paralleled that of the corresponding Th1, Th2 or Th17 cytokines. In addition to giving a comprehensive insight in the time course of cytokines and chemokines in E. multilocularis lesion, this study contributes to identify new targets for possible immune therapy to minimize E. multilocularis-related pathology and to complement the only parasitostatic effect of benzimidazoles in AE. 
Effects of ozone exposure mediated by BEAS-2B cells on T cells activation: a possible link between environment and asthma.	To explore the possible link between ozone and asthma through analyzing Th1/Th2 differentiation of T cells following incubation with conditioned medium from the BEAS-2B cells exposed to ozone in vitro.
Cross-presenting dendritic cells are required for control of Leishmania major infection.	Leishmania major infection induces self-healing cutaneous lesions in C57BL/6 mice. Both IL-12 and IFN- are essential for the control of infection. We infected Jun dimerization protein p21SNFT (Batf3(-/-) ) mice (C57BL/6 background) that lack the major IL-12 producing and cross-presenting CD8(+) and CD103(+) DC subsets. Batf3(-/-) mice displayed enhanced susceptibility with larger lesions and higher parasite burden. Additionally, cells from draining lymph nodes of infected Batf3(-/-) mice secreted less IFN-, but more Th2- and Th17-type cytokines, mirrored by increased serum IgE and Leishmania-specific immunoglobulin 1 (Th2 indicating). Importantly, CD8(+) DCs isolated from lymph nodes of L. major-infected mice induced significantly more IFN- secretion by L. major-stimulated immune T cells than CD103(+) DCs. We next developed CD11c-diptheria toxin receptor: Batf3(-/-) mixed bone marrow chimeras to determine when the DCs are important for the control of infection. Mice depleted of Batf-3-dependent DCs from day 17 or wild-type mice depleted of cross-presenting DCs from 17-19 days after infection maintained significantly larger lesions similar to mice whose Batf-3-dependent DCs were depleted from the onset of infection. Thus, we have identified a crucial role for Batf-3-dependent DCs in protection against L. major. 
Dehydroepiandrosterone modulates T-cell response after major abdominal surgery.	The immune balance controlled by T-helper (Th)1 and Th2 cells is critical in protecting the host from pathogenic invasion, and its imbalance may increase susceptibility to infection in patients undergoing major surgery. The differentiation of naive T cells to Th1 and Th2 cells is largely driven by cytokines. In addition, steroid hormones have been shown to affect Th1/Th2 balance, particularly in autoimmune diseases. The regulation of Th1/Th2 balance in patients undergoing surgery and its potential clinical relevance remain unclear.
Acanthamoeba protease activity promotes allergic airway inflammation via protease-activated receptor 2.	Acanthamoeba is a free-living amoeba commonly present in the environment and often found in human airway cavities. Acanthamoeba possesses strong proteases that can elicit allergic airway inflammation. To our knowledge, the aeroallergenicity of Acanthamoeba has not been reported. We repeatedly inoculated mice with Acanthamoeba trophozoites or excretory-secretory (ES) proteins intra-nasally and evaluated symptoms and airway immune responses. Acanthamoeba trophozoites or ES proteins elicited immune responses in mice that resembled allergic airway inflammation. ES proteins had strong protease activity and activated the expression of several chemokine genes (CCL11, CCL17, CCL22, TSLP, and IL-25) in mouse lung epithelial cells. The serine protease inhibitor phenyl-methane-sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) inhibited ES protein activity. ES proteins also stimulated dendritic cells and enhanced the differentiation of naive T cells into IL-4-secreting T cells. After repeated inoculation of the protease-activated receptor 2 knockout mouse with ES proteins, airway inflammation and Th2 immune responses were markedly reduced, but not to basal levels. Furthermore, asthma patients had higher Acanthamoeba-specific IgE titers than healthy controls and we found Acanthamoeba specific antigen from house dust in typical living room. Our findings suggest that Acanthamoeba elicits allergic airway symptoms in mice via a protease allergen. In addition, it is possible that Acanthamoeba may be one of the triggers human airway allergic disease. 
T cell immune responses in psoriasis.	A central role for T cells and their cytokines in the pathogenesis of psoriasis has been proposed; however, there are controversies over the details of this issue. The goal of this study is to summarise currently available data on the importance of T cells in psoriasis pathogenesis. A systematic review of the English medical literature was conducted by searching PubMed, Embase, ISI Web of Knowledge, and Iranian databases including Iranmedex, and SID for studies on associations between the involvement of T cell subsets and psoriasis. The results of the present study indicate that alterations in the number and function of different subsets of T-cells are associated with psoriasis. It appears that studies on T cell subsets contributed to understanding the immunopathogenesis of psoriasis. In addition, it may have provided novel therapeutic opportunities in ameliorating immunopathologies.
Airway uric acid is a sensor of inhaled protease allergens and initiates type 2 immune responses in respiratory mucosa.	Although type 2 immune responses to environmental Ags are thought to play pivotal roles in asthma and allergic airway diseases, the immunological mechanisms that initiate the responses are largely unknown. Many allergens have biologic activities, including enzymatic activities and abilities to engage innate pattern-recognition receptors such as TLR4. In this article, we report that IL-33 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin were produced quickly in the lungs of naive mice exposed to cysteine proteases, such as bromelain and papain, as a model for allergens. IL-33 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin sensitized naive animals to an innocuous airway Ag OVA, which resulted in production of type 2 cytokines and IgE Ab, and eosinophilic airway inflammation when mice were challenged with the same Ag. Importantly, upon exposure to proteases, uric acid (UA) was rapidly released into the airway lumen, and removal of this endogenous UA by uricase prevented type 2 immune responses. UA promoted secretion of IL-33 by airway epithelial cells in vitro, and administration of UA into the airways of naive animals induced extracellular release of IL-33, followed by both innate and adaptive type 2 immune responses in vivo. Finally, a potent UA synthesis inhibitor, febuxostat, mitigated asthma phenotypes that were caused by repeated exposure to natural airborne allergens. These findings provide mechanistic insights into the development of type 2 immunity to airborne allergens and recognize airway UA as a key player that regulates the process in respiratory mucosa. 
Exogenous IL-10 induces corneal transplantation immune tolerance by a mechanism associated with the altered Th1/Th2 cytokine ratio and the increased expression of TGF-.	The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of exogenous IL-10 transfected rat dendritic cells (DCs) in corneal allografts. Rat lymphocyte separation medium and a cytokine induction method was used to extract and culture precursor cells of rat bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. A corneal transplant model was established, with Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats as the recipients and Wistar rats as the donors. Flow cytometry (FCM) was used to detect the expression of CD83, which indicates a mature dendritic cell, and a specific cell surface stimulatory molecule CD86. Western blot analysis was used to detect interleukin (IL)-10 protein expression and RT-PCR was used to detect cytokine IL-10, IL-2 and TGF- mRNA expression in each group. Compared with the other groups, the survival time of corneal grafts in the IL-10-green fluorescent protein (GFP)-DC group was significantly prolonged and H&E staining demonstrated mild graft edema and inflammatory cell infiltration. There was a high expression of IL-10 and a low expression of the surface antigens, CD83 and CD86, with a lower proliferation of T lymphocytes in the IL-10-GFP-DC group. The expression of IL-10 and TGF- in the IL-10-GFP-DC group was higher than that in the other groups, while the expression of IL-2 was lower. The transfection of the IL-10 gene inhibited dendritic cell maturation. IL-10 gene-modified immature dendritic cells (imDC) were able to inhibit corneal allograft rejection and induce immune tolerance to prolong the survival time of the corneal graft. The Th1/Th2 deviation and the high expression of TGF- may lead to immune tolerance.
The AGC kinase SGK1 regulates TH1 and TH2 differentiation downstream of the mTORC2 complex.	SGK1 is an AGC kinase that regulates the expression of membrane sodium channels in renal tubular cells in a manner dependent on the metabolic checkpoint kinase complex mTORC2. We hypothesized that SGK1 might represent an additional mTORC2-dependent regulator of the differentiation and function of T cells. Here we found that after activation by mTORC2, SGK1 promoted T helper type 2 (TH2) differentiation by negatively regulating degradation of the transcription factor JunB mediated by the E3 ligase Nedd4-2. Simultaneously, SGK1 repressed the production of interferon- (IFN-) by controlling expression of the long isoform of the transcription factor TCF-1. Consistent with those findings, mice with selective deletion of SGK1 in T cells were resistant to experimentally induced asthma, generated substantial IFN- in response to viral infection and more readily rejected tumors. 
Influence of various bacterial ligand application methods on cytokine expression]	Study the production of cytokines in mice during vaccination with polycomponent Immunovac-VP-4 vaccine containing TLR ligands with various administration methods.
The influence of sublingual immunotherapy on Th2 type immunoreaction in patients with allergic rhinitis]	To explore the influence of sublingual immunotherapy on Th2 type immunoreaction in patients with allergic rhinitis within 12 months' treatment.
Polarization of ILC2s in peripheral blood might contribute to immunosuppressive microenvironment in patients with gastric cancer.	Newly identified nuocytes or group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) play an important role in Th2 cell mediated immunity such as protective immune responses to helminth parasites, allergic asthma, and chronic rhinosinusitis. However, the contributions of ILC2s in the occurrence and development of cancer remain unknown. Our previous study found that there was a predominant Th2 phenotype in patients with gastric cancer. In this study, the ILC2s related genes or molecules in PBMC from patients with gastric cancer were measured, and the potential correlation between them was analyzed. The expression levels of ROR, GATA3, T1/ST2, IL-17RB, CRTH2, IL-33, IL-5, and IL-4 mRNA were significantly increased in patients, but no significant changes were found in ICOS, CD45, and IL-13 expression, and there was a positive correlation between ROR or IL-13 and other related factors, such as ICOS and CD45. The increased frequency of ILC2s was also found in PBMC of patients by flow cytometry. In addition, the mRNA of Arg1 and iNOS were also significantly increased in patients. These results suggested that there are polarized ILC2s in gastric cancer patients which might contribute to immunosuppressive microenvironment and closely related to the upregulation of MDSCs and M2 macrophages.
Basophils are rapidly mobilized following initial aeroallergen encounter in nave mice and provide a priming source of IL-4 in adaptive immune responses.	Chronic aeroallergen inhalation elicits the expansion of IL-4-producing Th2 cells and the production of IgE antibodies. In sensitized subjects, who have established IgE and Th2 responses, re-exposure to allergen leads to rapid recruitment of basophils, which are thought to be important effectors of late phase allergic reactions. Several investigations of responses to parasites and injected antigens have identified an additional role for basophils as innate immune effectors during initial antigen encounter in immunologically nave hosts. These cells constitutively express IL-4 and promote Th2 polarized adaptive responses to such antigens. Their early recruitment and modulation of cellular immune responses to natural inhaled allergens in the airways has been scarcely investigated. In this study, basophils were enumerated in lung tissue, blood and spleen from BALB/c mice in the first days after inhalation of an aqueous extract of the allergen, Aspergillus fumigatus (Af). Af inhalation induced rapid increases in basophil numbers in the lung, blood and spleen. This was Rag-1-, MyD88- and IL-3-independent. The basophils expressed abundant IL-4. Their depletion during Af sensitization resulted in an attenuated induction of both IL-4 producing Th lymphocytes and specific IgE and IgG1 responses to an inhaled protein antigen, ovalbumin, which was co-administered. Our results suggest that basophils are rapidly recruited to the airways of nave mice following initial fungal allergen exposure, produce IL-4 and influence the development of the adaptive immune response. 
Immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis.	Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a clinical pathologic disease characterized by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction and eosinophilia of the esophagus. When the diagnosis is confirmed, it is important to treat the eosinophilic inflammation not only to control the presenting symptoms, but also to prevent acute and chronic complications. The pathogenesis of EoE is most likely a mixed IgE and non-IgE food-mediated reaction, where Th2 cytokines drive esophageal eosinophilia as in other atopic diseases. Hence, it is not surprising that therapy is based on inflammation control, with steroids (oral or topical) and/or food antigen avoidance. However, these treatment options are not specific, reduce the quality of life of patients and have significant side effects, therefore, there is an ongoing effort to design more specific immunotherapies. In this review, we review standard and immunotherapeutic options for EoE treatment, such as anti-IL-5, anti-TNF, anti-IgE, anti-CRTH, oral allergy desensitization and environmental immunotherapy. 
Overexpression of GATA-3 in T cells accelerates dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis.	Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an inflammatory bowel disease, and its pathogenesis includes genetic, environmental, and immunological factors, such as T helper cells and their secreted cytokines. T helper cells are classified as Th1, Th2, and Th17 cells. However, it is unclear which T helper cells are important in UC. Dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis is a commonly used model of UC. In this study, we induced DSS colitis in Th1 dominant (T-bet transgenic (Tg)) mice, Th2 dominant (GATA-3 Tg) mice, and Th17 dominant (RORt Tg) mice to elucidate the roles of T helper cell in DSS colitis. The results showed that GATA-3 Tg mice developed the most severe DSS colitis compared with the other groups. GATA-3 Tg mice showed a significant decreased in weight from day 1 to day 7, and an increased high score for the disease activity index compared with the other groups. Furthermore, GATA-3 Tg mice developed many ulcers in the colon, and many neutrophils and macrophages were detected on day 4 after DSS treatment. Measurement of GATA-3-induced cytokines demonstrated that IL-13 was highly expressed in the colon from DSS-induced GATA-3 Tg mice. In conclusion, GATA-3 overexpression in T-cells and IL-13 might play important roles in the development of DSS colitis. 
Th1 CD4+ lymphocytes delete activated macrophages through the Fas/APO-1 antigen pathway.	The Fas/APO-1 cytotoxic pathway plays an important role in the regulation of peripheral immunity. Recent evidence indicates that this regulatory function operates through deletion of activated T and B lymphocytes by CD4+ T cells expressing the Fas ligand. Because macrophages play a key role in peripheral immunity, we asked whether Fas was involved in T-cell-macrophage interactions. Two-color flow cytometry revealed that Fas receptor (FasR) was expressed on resting murine peritoneal macrophages. FasR expression was upregulated after activation of macrophages with cytokines or lipopolysaccharide, although only tumor necrosis factor-alpha rendered macrophages sensitive to anti-FasR antibody-mediated death. To determine the consequence of antigen presentation by macrophages to CD4+ T cells, macrophages were pulsed with antigen and then incubated with either Th1 or Th2 cell lines or clones. Th1, but not Th2, T cells induced lysis of 60-80% of normal macrophages, whereas macrophages obtained from mice with mutations in the FasR were totally resistant to Th1-mediated cytotoxicity. Macrophage cytotoxicity depended upon specific antigen recognition by T cells and was major histocompatibility complex restricted. These findings indicate that, in addition to deletion of activated lymphocytes, Fas plays an important role in deletion of activated macrophages after antigen presentation to Th1 CD4+ T cells. Failure to delete macrophages that constitutively present self-antigens may contribute to the expression of autoimmunity in mice deficient in FasR (lpr) or Fas ligand (gld).
Preferential dependence of autoantibody production in murine lupus on CD86 costimulatory molecule.	Blockade of the interactions between CD28/CTLA-4 and their ligands, CD80 (B7, B7.1)/CD86 (B70, B7.2), seems an attractive means to induce antigen-specific peripheral tolerance in organ transplantation and autoimmune disease. Recently, diversities between CD80 and CD86 in expression, regulation, and function have been reported in certain cell populations and murine experimental disease models. To investigate the possible differential role of CD80 and CD86 in the development of lupus, we treated lupus-prone NZB/W F1 mice with specific monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against CD80, CD86, or both. The treatment with a combination of anti-CD80 and CD86 mAb before the onset of lupus completely prevented autoantibody production and nephritis, and prolonged survival. Interestingly, we found that anti-CD86 mAb alone, but not anti-CD80 mAb, efficiently inhibited autoantibody production. Subclass study on IgG anti-double-stranded (ds) DNA antibody revealed that the treatment with anti-CD86 mAb almost completely inhibited both IgG1 and IgG2b, but not IgG2a production. The incomplete reduction of IgG2a anti-dsDNA antibody by anti-CD86 mAb was compensated by the addition of anti-CD80 mAb. A significant reduction of mRNA for interleukin (IL)-2, interferon-gamma, IL-4 and IL-6 was observed in mice treated with a combination of anti-CD80 and CD86 mAb or anti-CD86 mAb alone. Treatment with both mAb after the onset of lupus resulted in a significantly prolonged survival with reduction of autoantibody production. These results suggest that CD86 plays a more critical role in autoantibody production, and CD86, but not CD80, contributes to Th2-mediated Ig production. However, the blockade of both CD80 and CD86 are required for preventing the development and progression of lupus.
Induction of Th2 responses in infectious diseases.	Recent work on T-helper (Th) cell subset maturation has focused on defining the cellular source of early IL-4, which promotes precursor (naive) CD4+ Th cells to differentiate into Th type 2 (Th2) cells, and also on the roles of counter-regulatory cytokines, costimulatory signals, and antigen in the induction of Th2 responses. Results suggest that not all Th2 cells are equivalent in their ontogeny.
Early immunosuppression and implantation]	In this brief review, we recall the antigenic status of the embryo and the possible threats that the maternal immune system poses to fetal survival even at implantation stage. We then quickly recall the existence of Early Pregnancy Factor (EPF), the available data for early embryo derived suppressor and suppressor inducer molecules, point to the existence of cloned progesterone dependent T cell derived suppressor molecule, disquisite on immunoregulatory properties of tau interferons, and finish by dealing with Interleukin 10 and the TH1/TH2 balance concept.
Cytokines and T cell switching.	In recent years, the phenotypic characterization of T cell subsets has given way to a functional dichotomy based essentially on their cytokine profiles. In this context, the CD4+ helper T cell subset has been shown to consist of two types, termed Th1 and Th2. In general, Th1 cells produce interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon (IFN)-gamma, while Th2 cells characteristically produce IL-4, IL-5, and IL-6. The major function of the Th1 subset is to mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and their secondary function is suppression of B cell activity. In contrast, the major function of the Th2 subset is to provide B cell help, while their secondary function is cell-mediated immune suppression. A similar dichotomy has also been described for CD8+ T cells. The role that these functional T cell subsets and their cytokines play in terms of their protective and nonprotective outcomes in a variety of infectious and oral diseases is reviewed.
T helper cell differentiation in immune response.	Significant progress has been made in understanding the maturation of antigen-specific CD4+ T helper cell responses. Recent progress centers on the network of cytokines, accessory molecules, and cell types that shapes the differentiation of distinct T helper cell subsets. Use of transgenic and knockout mice and well characterized in vivo models have helped clarify the interdependence or independence of many of these complex factors.
Glycoprotein D (5-23) specific Th2-T-cell line induces HSV-1 keratitis]	BALB/c inbred Igh-1-disparate mice exhibit different susceptibility to the development of HSV-1 stromal keratitis (HSK), which may be due to the differential immune regulation. CD4+ T lymphocytes may be critical for the disease induction. A T-cell line (CD4+, T-cell receptor V beta 8+, interleukin-4+) specific for the N-terminal amino acids 5-23 of glycoprotein D from HSV-1 [gD(5-23)] was established from HSK susceptible C.AL-20 mice. HSK-resistant C.B-17 mice, and HSK-susceptible BALB/c mice were injected intraperitoneally with cells (5 x 10(5)/mouse) alone or combined with HSV-1 corneal inoculation (10(5) PFU, KOS strain). Control groups were injected with HSV-antigen-unrelated cells (PPD specific), or were only HSV-1 infected. Migration of the adoptively transferred gD(5-23) Th2 cells was analyzed by histology, by immunohistochemistry and by cell membrane labelling (PKH26). The transfer of gD(5-23) cells accelerated the disease onset (day 2, compared to day 7 without cells). The transfer of gD(5-23) cells increased the incidence of HSK (BALB/c 100%, C.B-17 20%) compared to mice that were only infected with HSV-1 (BALB/c 75%, C.B-17 0%). Keratitis was more severe in mice injected with gD(5-23) cells. In contrast, the transfer of PPD-specific cells did not influence the disease patterns. Mice injected with gD(5-23) cells and not inoculated with HSV-1 did not develop keratitis. The results suggest that CD4+ MHC class II, V beta 8+, IL-4 expressing T-cells (T helper 2) may be important for the induction of HSK.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Th1 and Th2 help for B cells: differential capacity for induction of autonomous responsiveness to IL-2.	Sustained interaction with Th1 cells has been shown to induce IL-2 responsiveness by murine B cells. This is equivalently dependent on CD40, CD54/ICAM-1 and MHC II ligation, and co-cross-linking of CD54 and MHC II in the presence of IL-5 up-regulates a functional IL-2R on B cells. We now show that IL-5 (125 U/ml) synergizes with Th1 cells to induce B cell responses to IL-2, that are maintained following T-cell removal, e.g. autonomous. Th1 help in the absence of IL-5 resulted in weak or undetectable responses following T cell removal. The mechanism of IL-5 synergy involved persistence of IL-2R beta expression following T cell removal, as opposed to enhancement of IL-2R induction or function. The level of contact-induced IL-2R expression on B cells was not itself modified by IL-5. The effects of IL-5 did not overcome the requirement for T contact signals and treatment of B cells with soluble anti-Ig did not circumvent the need for IL-5 for autonomous IL-2 responses. Consistent with the above, interaction with an IL-5-producing Th2 clone induced strong autonomous B cell responses to IL-2. Qualitative differences of Th2 help over that of Th1 may thus be attributable to their differential ability to induce autonomous B cell responsiveness to cytokines. This may be representative of events in which maintenance of cell cycle is important, as is the case in germinal centers.
Features of oral immunization.	In this review, we focus on some key areas concerning the unique properties of the mucosal immune system. They are: (1) the fact that the common mucosal immune system consists of different compartments; (2) the advantages of oral vaccination, which can be exploited to antigen-specific sIgA-mediated local immune responses as well as systemic immunity; (3) efficacious oral immunization against respiratory infections; (4) oral tolerance with respect to activation of T cells which, after declining, can be repeatedly reinduced without changes in profile or magnitude, and (5) the use of transgenic plants as a new vaccine source for a new vaccination strategy, i.e. employing edible dietary vaccines.
Polarized Th2 cytokine expression by both mucosal gamma delta and alpha beta T cells.	Currently only limited information is available as to why dominant IgA isotype responses are supported by mucosal T cells in effector tissues. To address this issue directly, gamma delta and alpha beta T cells were isolated from the submandibular gland (SMG) of mice as an example of mucosal effector tissues. Freshly isolated CD3+ T cells from this tissue contained relatively high numbers of activated cells [approximately 10% interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R)+ cells and 15% of cells in cycle stages S and G2 + M], of which 25% and 75% were gamma delta and alpha beta T cells, respectively. The cytokine-specific quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunospot analyses revealed that, although both gamma delta and alpha beta T cells were capable of producing an array of Th1 or Th2 cytokines following stimulation via the T cell receptor-CD3 complex, these mucosal T cells were mainly committed to IL-5 and IL-6 expression in vivo (Th2 type). Both freshly isolated gamma delta and alpha beta T cells expressed mRNA and contained IL-5 and IL-6 spot-forming cells (SFC); however, only the latter exhibited high mRNA levels and SFC for a Th1 cytokine (interferon-gamma). Taken together, the results show that freshly isolated CD3+ T cells from SMG contain activated gamma delta and alpha beta T cells which are programmed to produce IL-5 and IL-6. Thus, SMG, an example of an IgA effector tissue, can be characterized as a Th2-dominant site. However, although both gamma delta and alpha beta T cells express cytokine profiles consistent with a Th2 phenotype, only the latter subset with a CD4+ CD8- phenotype provided effective help for mucosal B cell responses in vitro.
Induction of Th1 and Th2 CD4+ T cell responses by oral or parenteral immunization with ISCOMS.	We examined the ability of oral or parenteral immunization with immune stimulating complexes containing ovalbumin (ISCOMS-OVA) to prime T cell proliferative and cytokine responses. A single subcutaneous immunization with ISCOMS-OVA primed potent antigen-specific proliferative responses in the draining popliteal lymph node, which were entirely dependent on the presence of CD4+ T cells. CD8+ T cells did not proliferate in vitro even in the presence of the appropriate peptide epitope and exogenous interleukin (IL)-2. Primed popliteal lymph node cells produced IL-2, IL-5 and interferon (IFN)-gamma, but not IL-4 when restimulated with OVA in vitro. Serum antigen-specific IgG1 and IgG2a antibody responses were also primed by subcutaneous immunization with ISCOMS-OVA, confirming the stimulation of both Th1 and Th2 cells in vivo. Spleen cells from subcutaneously primed mice produced a similar pattern of cytokines, indicating that disseminated priming had occurred. Oral immunization with ISCOMS-OVA also primed local antigen-specific proliferative responses in the mesenteric lymph node and primed an identical pattern of systemic cytokine responses in the spleen. The ability of ISCOMS to prime both Th1 and Th2 CD4+ T cell responses may be central to their potent adjuvant activities and confirm the potential of ISCOMS as future oral vaccine vectors.
CD28-B7 costimulatory blockade by CTLA4Ig prevents actively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and inhibits Th1 but spares Th2 cytokines in the central nervous system.	We studied the contribution of the CD28-B7 costimulatory T cell activation pathway to the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the Lewis rat model. Systemic administration of CTLA4Ig suppressed clinical disease and was effective even when CTLA4Ig was delayed until day 10 postimmunization, a time when pathologic disease is evident. This protection was not reversible by systemic administration of high doses of IL-2. Detailed immunohistologic studies showed that CTLA4Ig therapy resulted in suppression of the inflammatory response with inhibition of Th1 (IL-2 and IFN-gamma) and sparing of Th2 (IL-4, IL-10, and IL-13) cytokines in the central nervous system. These results indicate that the CD28-B7 T cell costimulatory pathway plays an important role in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a Th1-mediated disease, and suggest that blockade of this costimulatory pathway protects against active disease by causing a state of immune deviation towards Th2 function. The ability of CTLA4Ig to treat animals with pathologically established disease may have important clinical implications for patients with multiple sclerosis.
Mucosal adjuvant effect of cholera toxin in mice results from induction of T helper 2 (Th2) cells and IL-4.	Despite pathophysiologic effects including diarrhea, cholera toxin (CT) is a potent mucosal immunogen and adjuvant. We investigated the influence of CT on T helper (Th)-type 1 (Th1) and Th2 cell-regulated Ag-specific B cell isotype and IgG subclass Ab responses elicited when the toxin was co-administered orally with different protein Ags. When mice were orally immunized with tetanus toxoid (TT) and CT as adjuvant, this regimen induced TT-specific secretory IgA responses in the gastrointestinal tract as well as serum IgG, including IgG1 and IgG2b subclasses, and IgA responses. This oral regimen also induced TT- and CT-B-specific IgE responses. In addition, CT also elicited adjuvant effects for Ag-specific IgG1, IgE, and IgA responses when two other protein Ags, OVA and hen egg white lysozyme, were given by the oral route. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR was performed to assess levels of mRNA for Th1 (IFN-gamma) and Th2 (IL-4) cytokine expression in TT-stimulated CD4+ T cell cultures. Both Peyer's patches and splenic CD4+ T cells expressed markedly increased levels of IL-4-specific message, but did not result in changes in IFN-gamma mRNA expression. To determine whether the route of immunization influenced IgE responses, mice were immunized s.c. with TT and CT as adjuvant. Significant increases in total and TT-specific IgE Abs were induced when CT was co-administered. Taken together, these results show that CT acts as a mucosal adjuvant to enhance Th2-type responses and in particular, the IL-4 produced results in a characteristic Ab isotype pattern associated with this cytokine.
Early IL-4 production by non-CD4+ cells at the site of antigen deposition predicts the development of a T helper 2 cell response to Schistosoma mansoni eggs.	Cytokines play a major role in promoting naive Th cells to differentiate into Th1 or Th2 cells. While IL-4 is recognized as the primary pro-Th2 inducing cytokine, the identity of its cellular sources during the development of a Th2 response remains unclear. We have used Schistosoma mansoni eggs, potent stimulators of Th2 responses both during the natural progression of murine schistosomiasis and when experimentally isolated and injected into normal mice, to examine IL-4 production early in the evolution of an Ag-driven Th2 response. Analysis of peritoneal exudate cells by IL-4 specific reverse transcriptase-PCR and ELISPOT, at times following i.p. egg injection in naive C57BL/6 mice, revealed a marked, transient elevation in IL-4 production at 2 to 12 h after Ag exposure. This response was temporally accompanied by eosinophil and neutrophil infiltration and mast cell disappearance. The pattern of early IL-4 production and peritoneal cell infiltration was observed in egg-injected CD4+ cell-depleted and nude C57BL/6 mice, strongly suggesting that a non-T cell is the source of early IL-4 and that the stimulus leading to the egg-induced changes in cellular composition are T cell independent. In addition to IL-4 transcripts, peritoneal exudate cells from egg-injected T cell replete or deficient mice contained IFN-gamma and IL-12 transcripts. Control i.p. PBS injections led to no or minimal cytokine gene transcription. Early IL-4 was predictive of subsequent Th2 response development since, in contrast to C57BL/6 mice, egg-injected BALB/c mice demonstrated no detectable IL-4 production at 12 h and mounted a comparatively weak egg Ag-specific Th2 response.
Neuroantigen-specific Th2 cells are inefficient suppressors of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced by effector Th1 cells.	We have identified a method of polarizing polyclonal populations of activated T helper cells toward either the Th1 or Th2 phenotype using different short-term in vitro culture conditions. Since the Ag used was an encephalitogenic peptide for SJL/J mice, the pathogenic potential of these cell populations was tested in an adoptive transfer model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Th1 cells reproducibly caused severe EAE, whereas highly polarized Th2 cells did not. Furthermore, highly polarized Th2 cells did not suppress EAE caused by Th1 cells. The anti-inflammatory cytokines made by Th2 cells may simply fail to inhibit tissue destruction mediated by differentiated Th1 cells at the effector phase of the disease. It is also possible that highly polarized Th2 cells may be inefficient at crossing the blood-brain barrier, which may limit their suppressive potential. In contrast, incompletely skewed T cell populations that produced high levels of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines were consistently only weakly encephalitogenic. Therefore, disease inhibition by Th2 cytokines may best be accomplished by intervention at earlier points preceding development of differentiated Th1 cells.
Evidence for immunologic immaturity of cord blood T cells. Cord blood T cells are susceptible to tolerance induction to in vitro stimulation with a superantigen.	T cell blasts resulting from stimulating human cord blood (CB) mononuclear cells (MC) and adult peripheral blood (APB) MC with a bacterial superantigen, toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1), and then with human rIL-2 were investigated for their reactions to restimulation with TSST-1. Expression of TCR V beta 2, which determines the potential reactivity to TSST-1 and of CD45RO, was increased in both TSST-1-induced CB and APB T cell blasts. Most preparations of the TSST-1-induced CB T cell blasts exhibited low or no production of IL-2 and IL-4 in response to restimulation with TSST-1, while the APB T cell blasts showed high responses. TSST-1-induced T cell blasts derived from APB T cells depleted of both CD45RO+ T cells and HLA class II+ T cells showed high IL-2 production in response to restimulation with TSST-1. TSST-1-induced CB T cell blasts generated in the presence of DR+ L cells with high accessory cell activity still showed a low response to restimulation with TSST-1. These results indicate that CB T cells are inherently highly susceptible to tolerance induction by bacterial superantigens, suggesting the immunologic immaturity of CB T cells.
Experimental hypersensitivity pneumonitis: in vitro effects of interleukin-2 and interferon-gamma.	Cultured CD4+ cells are responsible for transfer of adoptive murine experimental hypersensitivity pneumonitis (EHP) (ARRD 1992; 146:1582-8). To characterize interactions that occur in vitro that result in cells able to transfer EHP, we added either antibody to IFN-gamma, antibody to IL-2, or 30 or 300 micrograms/ml IFN-gamma at the onset of 72-hour culture of C3H/HeJ spleen cells from either M. faeni or ovalbumin (control) sensitized donors with 30 micrograms/ml Micropolyspora faeni. We determined the phenotype of cells after culture and the amount of IL-2 or IFN-gamma in the culture supernatants, transferred cells to naive recipients, challenged the recipients intratracheally with M. faeni, and determined the extent of pulmonary inflammatory changes 4 days thereafter. Substantial amounts of IL-2 and IFN-gamma were detected in supernatants of cultures from M. faeni-sensitized animals, and lesser amounts were detected in culture supernatants from ovalbumin-sensitized donors. Treatment of cultures of M. faeni-sensitized cells with antibody to IL-2 or IFN-gamma blocked or reduced measurable IL-2 or IFN-gamma for the duration of culture. Treatment with IFN-gamma blocked increased levels of IL-2 at 48 and 72 hours of culture. Cultured M. faeni-sensitized cells adoptively transfer EHP. Cells from cultures depleted of either IL-2 or IFN-gamma or supplemented with IFN-gamma could transfer EHP equally well. We conclude that in vitro maturation of cells capable of adoptive EHP is not dependent on soluble IL-2 or IFN-gamma and is not altered by exogenous IFN-gamma.
Induction of non-responsiveness in human allergen-specific type 2 T helper cells.	Activation of allergen-reactive human T helper (Th)2 cells in the absence of professional antigen-presenting cells, induces non-responsiveness or anergy in these cells in vitro. This induction of anergy is accompanied by phenotypic modulation and altered cytokine production. Furthermore, peptide-treated Th2 cells fail to provide B-cell help for IgE synthesis. Recent studies indicate that impaired signal transduction via the T-cell receptor may account for the lack of responsiveness to antigenic stimulation. Here, we review present knowledge on the cell biology of non-responsive or anergic Th2 cells.
IL-10 secretion of allergen-specific skin-derived T cells correlates positively with that of the Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-5.	In atopic individuals, allergen-specific CD4+ T lymphocytes often belong to the T-helper 2 (Th2) subset as they secrete the marker cytokines interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-5 but not interferon-gamma (INF-gamma). IL-10 is a cytokine the production of which, in the mouse system has been described to be restricted to the Th2 subset, but in the human was found to be produced by both Th1 and Th2 T cell clones (TCC). We have recently shown that house dust mite antigen (Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus)-specific TCC isolated from skin of patients with atopic dermatitis have a more polarized Th2 cytokine production profile than TCC obtained from the peripheral blood of these patients. In this study, we report that skin-derived TCC secrete more IL-10, IL-4 and IL-5, than TCC isolated from the blood of the same individual (p < 0.05). The difference was more significant with specific TCC than with non-specific TCC. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between the production of IL-10 and that of IL-4 and IL-5, respectively. In addition, the amount of IL-4 and IL-5 secreted by specific TCC from the skin correlated positively. These results were confirmed by the detection of mRNA by PCR. Finally, our data confirm that in human blood-derived TCC IL-10 secretion is not related to a particular cytokine production profile. We suggest that the skin of AD provides an unique environment for the development of aTh2-like secretion pattern not only with respect to IL-4 and IL-5 but also regarding IL-10.
Correlations between worm burden and markers of Th1 and Th2 cell subset induction in an inbred strain of mouse infected with Trichuris muris.	Helper T cell subset induction was examined within a single inbred strain of mouse (B10.D2/n) where individuals varied in their ability to expel the nematode parasite Trichuris muris. In this mouse strain approximately half of infected individuals resist infection whilst half are unable to expel the parasite and harbour chronic mature adult worm infections. We here assess various T cell and serological parameters in individual B10.D2/n mice infected with T. muris in relation to the number of parasites harboured. Worm burdens showed very significant negative correlations with five different parameters indicative of the selective expansion within the host of helper T cells of the Th2 subset. Thus, in vitro IL-5 and IL-9 production by restimulated mesenteric lymph node cells, total IgE levels, the early parasite-specific IgG1 response (all P < 0.01) and intestinal eosinophilia (P < 0.05), were all significantly negatively correlated with worm burden. In addition, levels of IL-3 were significantly greater in mice resistant to infection (P < 0.01). In contrast there was a significant positive correlation between worm burden and parasite-specific IgG2a levels (P < 0.05), IgG2a production being under the tight control of the Th1-specific cytokine IFN-gamma and thus a reliable marker for in vivo Th1 cell activation. The data demonstrates that an individual infected with T. muris is capable of mounting either a protective Th2-type response or an inappropriate Th1-type response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Kinetics and functional implications of Th1 and Th2 cytokine production following activation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in primary culture.	The importance of cytokine production in some disease processes is now widely recognized. To investigate temporal relationships between cytokines, we stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro using the T cell mitogen phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and various antigens chosen to induce predominantly Th1 (streptokinase: streptodornase or purified protein derivative) or Th2 (Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, bee or wasp venom: allergens in sensitive subjects) responses. Cytokine production was measured by sensitive bioassays or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Of the 30 subjects studied, 10 were normal and 20 individuals were allergic to either D. pteronyssinus (n = 10) or bee venom (n = 10) (examined before specific allergen immunotherapy). We examined the temporal profiles of a panel of cytokines produced in primary culture. In PHA-driven cultures, cytokines were found to be sequentially produced in the order interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-3, interferon (IFN)-gamma, IL-10, IL-6, IL-12 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. The response to allergen in allergic patients was predominantly Th2 in nature, with the production of IL-4, IL-5, IL-6 and IL-10, but little or no IFN-gamma. IL-2, IL-3, TNF-alpha and IL-12 were also produced in low amounts. The response of both atopic and normal subjects to recall bacterial antigens was predominantly Th1, with high levels of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and TNF-alpha. The relevance of the order, amount and speed of production, characteristic kinetics (production, consumption, homeostatic regulation) and the cell source of the cytokines are discussed.
Contribution of interleukin-3 to antigen-induced Th2 cytokine production.	Short-term stimulation of mouse spleen cells in vitro with interleukin (IL)-3 induces the secretion of the Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-6. Non-B/non-T cells were the target of this IL-3 effect. However, during long-term antigen-dependent culture, T cells are the major source of IL-4 and IL-6. The addition of IL-3 to such cultures also led to a significant increase in IL-4 and IL-6 production. This Th2 cytokine secretion was amplified by the addition of irradiated non-B/non-T cells at the initiation of culture, and was inhibited by anti-IL-4 antibodies. These findings suggest that IL-3 induces the rapid release of IL-4 and IL-6 by non-B/non-T cells, thereby creating an immune milieu conducive to the development of antigen-specific IL-4 and IL-6-secreting Th2 cells.
Evidence of a T helper type 2 activation in human schistosomiasis.	The lymphocyte proliferative response and cytokine production to S. mansoni antigen in vitro were evaluated in 22 schistosomiasis patients living in an area endemic for this disease. The majority of patients (86%) showed no lymphocyte proliferative response and none of them showed interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production, following in vitro stimulation with soluble adult worm antigen preparation (SWAP). In contrast, interleukin (IL)-5 (2038 +/- 1757 pg/ml) and IL-10 (867 +/- 762 pg/ml) were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cultures stimulated with SWAP. Moreover, mRNA for IL-4 was detected in SWAP-stimulated PBMC from 4 of 6 patients evaluated. Restoration of lymphoproliferative response was achieved in 4 of 6 patients by adding anti-IL-10 monoclonal antibody (mAb) to PBMC cultures [mean stimulation index (SI) in the presence of antigen = 2.7 +/- 2.9; SI in the presence of antigen plus anti-IL-10, 21 +/- 16]. Restoration of IFN-gamma production by addition of anti-IL-10 mAb was achieved in 4 of 12 patients evaluated (248, 350, 687 and 710 pg/ml). Moreover, the addition of IL-10 to PBMC cultures of 3 schistosomiasis patients and 2 cured subjects who had high lymphoproliferative responses to SWAP resulted in the suppression of these responses by 90%, and completely suppressed IFN-gamma production in one of the subjects, whose PBMC produced IFN-gamma after stimulation with SWAP. The presence of IL-4 mRNA, high levels of IL-5, and the absence of IFN-gamma in PBMC culture supernatants from infected patients, supports the conclusion that patients living in an endemic area of schistosomiasis express a predominant T helper type 2 response. The high levels of IL-10 and the ability of neutralizing anti-IL-10 mAb to restore T cell responses indicate that this cytokine plays an important role in the modulation of T cell responses in schistosomiasis.
Regulation of disease susceptibility: decreased prevalence of IgE-mediated allergic disease in patients with multiple sclerosis.	The development of restricted cytokine profiles by subsets of CD4+ T cells is a pivotal point in the regulation of immune responses. T cells producing Th1 cytokines (IL-2 and interferon-gamma) induce cell-mediated immunity, whereas T cells producing Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10) play a prominent role in the induction of humoral immunity. We examined a group of patients with multiple sclerosis, a disease caused by excess production of Th1 cytokines in myelin-reactive T cells, and control patients with noninflammatory neuroconvulsive disorders, for the presence of allergic disease, which is caused by excess production of Th2 cytokines in allergen-specific T cells. The patients with multiple sclerosis had significantly fewer allergic symptoms, a lower number of positive allergen-specific IgE test results, and lower composite allergy indexes than control subjects. These results demonstrate that the prevalence of IgE-mediated allergic disease is decreased in a group of patients with multiple sclerosis and support the hypothesis that genetic factors that promote susceptibility to Th1-mediated inflammatory disease in human beings protect against the development of Th2-mediated disease.
Murine acariasis. II. Immunological dysfunction and evidence for chronic activation of Th-2 lymphocytes.	The authors describe the immunological profile of BALB/c mice with Mite-Associated Ulcerative Dermatitis (MAUD)-like disease, due to Myocoptes musculinus (Koch 1844) infestation. The disease probably involves allergic mechanisms and is characterized by erythematous and pruritic skin lesions, widespread hair loss, lymphadenopathy, lymphocytopenia, granulocytosis and wasting. Affected individuals had much reduced numbers of pre-B and B cells in bone marrow and B cells in blood; decreased T-cell numbers in peripheral lymphoid organs and blood; hypergammaglobulinaemia with selective increases of IgG1, IgE and IgA, and depletion on IgM and IgG3, the same isotype distribution being detected in splenic plasmocytes; qualitative modifications of the serum antibody reactivity pattern; and increased production of IL-4 with decreased IL-2 production after in vitro polyclonal stimulation of T cells. Taken together, these results suggest that infestation by M. musculinus in BALB/c mice leads to a significant immunological disorder resulting in a T-helper-2 (Th-2) type response, with marked systemic consequences. This pathological condition may thus provide a useful model system for the immunobiological perturbation associated with chronic allergic disease.
Activation of cloned human CD4+ Th1 and Th2 cells by blood dendritic cells.	Dendritic cells (DC) have been reported to be the most potent antigen-presenting cells (APC) for the activation of naive T cells and to be 10-100-fold more potent APC than monocytes (M phi) in the mixed lymphocyte reaction. In this study the authors compared human blood DC with M phi and B cells for their ability to activate cloned rye grass allergen Lol p I specific CD4+ Th1 and Th2 cells. In the presence of Lol p I, all three types of APC activated Th1 and Th2 cells to a similar extent, as shown by T-cell proliferation and interferon-gamma, interleukin-2 (IL-2) or IL-4 secretion. However, at low APC:T cell ratios, M phi were the most potent APC for both Th1 and Th2 cells followed in decreasing order by DC and B cells. This hierarchy was observed with APC preparations isolated by negative selection or highly purified by positive selection using fluorescent cell sorting for HLA-DR(high)-DC, CD14(pos)-M phi and CD19(pos)-B cells. The data demonstrate that, in contrast to what has been reported for naive T cells, human blood DC activate cloned memory Th1 and Th2 cells to a similar extent as M phi and B cells presumably because the requirements for activation of memory type T cells are less stringent than those for naive T cells.
A role for Th2 T-memory cells in early airway obstruction.	The role of T-cell memory in late-phase allergic lung inflammation is not well defined. To evaluate the role of systemic T-cell memory in allergic late-phase lung inflammation, BALB/c mice were injected intraperitoneally with ovalbumin (OVA) or ragweed (RW) allergens (Test I and Test II groups) or saline (control groups C I and C IV) and then challenged intratracheally with the allergen. Late-phase allergic lung inflammation was defined by: (i) recruitment of eosinophils to airways, (ii) IL-5 mRNA upregulation in BAL fluid cells, and (iii) detection of a Th2 cell cytokine profile in BAL fluids. The number of eosinophils recruited in allergic mice following intratracheal challenge with allergen was at least 300-fold higher P < or = 0.01) in mice with allergen-specific T-memory cells in BAL fluid (Test I and Test II) than in control mice without allergen-specific T-memory cells (C I and C IV). Further, the number of eosinophils recruited in Test I and II correlated with the magnitude of in vitro T-cell memory responses (r = 0.93, P < or = 0.04). Moreover, IL-5 mRNA upregulation in BAL cells and Th2 cytokine production in BAL fluids were observed only in Test I and Test II, and not in any of the control groups. Further, results from pulmonary function tests performed on the same allergic animals indicated that only animals from Test I and Test II groups had impaired lung function after allergen challenge. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that allergen-specific Th2-type T-cell memory is required for the development of allergic asthma. That is, without T-cell memory responses, no eosinophil recruitment and release of EPO (which is known to induce bronchoconstriction) occurred in the airways, and no Th2 cytokine profile was detected in the BAL fluid. Furthermore, if the Th2 cytokine profile was absent, then pulmonary functions remained normal.
Epicutaneous exposure of protein antigen induces a predominant Th2-like response with high IgE production in mice.	Hapten-induced contact hypersensitivity has been well-characterized in humans as well as in animal models. However, it is not clear whether or not protein Ag can directly sensitize epicutaneously and induce a primary immune response. We demonstrated in this study, for the first time, that through epicutaneous exposure protein Ag in the absence of adjuvant sensitizes animals and induces a predominant Th2-like response. Furthermore, mice receiving repeated protein Ag sustained elevated levels of specific IgE. This animal model can be used to investigate the molecular mechanism controlling the differential Th1/Th2 development in skin diseases.
TCR-independent activation of human CD4+ 45RO- T cells by anti-CD28 plus IL-2: Induction of clonal expansion and priming for a Th2 phenotype.	In this study we show that uncommitted human CD4+ CD45RA+ RO- CD25- CD71- HLA-DR- T cells can be primed for a Th2 phenotype before they encounter TCR signals and before they are exposed to IL-4. We found that >99% of uncommitted T cells proliferated upon costimulation by immobilized anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 mAbs and differentiated into pure Th1 cells. In contrast, uncommitted T cells did not respond to stimulation by either anti-CD3 or anti-CD28, or by IL-2 alone. Interestingly, 5% of uncommitted T cells proliferated efficiently in response to stimulation by immobilized anti-CD28 plus IL-2 (in the absence of TCR/CD3 signals) and differentiated into pure Th2 "precursor" cells. Like murine CD4+ NK1.1+ T cells, human Th2 precursors promptly expressed mRNA for Th2 cytokines upon stimulation via the TCR/CD3 complex by anti-CD3 mAb or staphylococcal enterotoxin B, and secreted up to 50 ng of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 per 10(6) cells. Th2 "precursors" developed only in the complete absence of IL-4, as addition of 0.1 U (5 pg) of exogenous IL-4 suppressed their clonal expansion by >90%, whereas addition of neutralizing anti-IL-4 mAb had no effect. Together these results suggest that, in vivo, a significant fraction of uncommitted T cells may be primed for a Th2 phenotype independent of Ag and IL-4 if they are exposed to Th1 cell-derived IL-2 and simultaneously interact with accessory cells bearing the natural CD28 ligands B7-1 and B7-2. When stimulated by specific Ag, such primed Th2 precursor cells may provide a source of IL-4 to promote Th2 immunity.
Central role of immunoglobulin (Ig) E in the induction of lung eosinophil infiltration and T helper 2 cell cytokine production: inhibition by a non-anaphylactogenic anti-IgE antibody.	Elevated levels of immunoglobulin (Ig) E are associated with bronchial asthma, a disease characterized by eosinophilic inflammation of the airways. Activation of antigen-specific T helper (Th) 2 cells in the lung with the subsequent release of interleukin (IL) 4 and IL-5 is believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease. In this study, we have used a non-anaphylactogenic anti-mouse-IgE antibody to investigate the relationship between IgE, airway eosinophil infiltration, and the production of Th2 cytokines. Immunization of mice with house dust mite antigen increased serum levels of IgE and IgG. Antigen challenge of immunized but not control mice induced an infiltration of eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage associated with the production of IL-4 and IL-5 from lung purified Thy1.2+ cells activated through the CD3-T cell receptor complex. Administration of the anti-IgE monoclonal antibody (mAb) 6h before antigen challenge neutralized serum IgE but not IgG and inhibited the recruitment of eosinophils into the lungs and the production of IL-4 and IL-5 but not interferon gamma. Studies performed using an anti-CD23 mAb, CD23 deficient and mast cell deficient mice suggest that anti-IgE mAb suppresses eosinophil infiltration and Th2 cytokine production by inhibiting IgE-CD23-facilitated antigen presentation to T cells. Our results demonstrate that IgE-dependent mechanisms are important in the induction of a Th2 immune response and the subsequent infiltration of eosinophils into the airways. Neutralization of IgE, for example, non-anaphylactogenic anti-IgE mAbs may provide a novel therapeutic approach to the treatment of allergic airway disease.
Impaired neutrophil response and CD4+ T helper cell 1 development in interleukin 6-deficient mice infected with Candida albicans.	To define the role of interleukin (IL)6 in Candida albicans infection, IL-6 deficient mice were assessed for susceptibility to systemic or gastrointestinal infection, as well as for parameters of elicited T helper cell (Th) immunity. IL-6-deficient mice were more susceptible than wild-type mice to either type of infection caused by virulent C. albicans. In response to systemic challenge with a live vaccine strain of yeast, IL-6-deficient mice failed to mount Th1-associated protective immunity, but the resulting Th2-biased response could be redirected to the Th1 phenotype by IL-10 neutralization. Severe impairment of the macrophage and neutrophil response to infection was observed in IL-6-deficient mice, but administration of IL-6 would increase both neutrophil response and resistance to infection. IL-6 seems to oppose the Th2-promoting role of IL-10 in candidiasis, its early regulatory activity involving effects on neutrophil function.
Distinct regulatory roles of lymphocyte costimulatory pathways on T helper type-2 mediated autoimmune disease.	We assessed the role of CD40-CD40L, cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)A4/CD28-B7s, and CD2-CD48/CD58 lymphocyte costimulatory pathways in the development of mercury chloride (HgCl2)-induced autoimmune disease in mice, which is believed to be mediated by T helper (Th) subset Th2. Inhibition of CD40-CD40-L and CTLA4/CD28-B7s interactions by anti-CD40-L antibody and soluble CTLA4-immunoglobulin (Ig) fusion protein, respectively, abrogated the autoimmune disease without affecting interleukin 4 (IL-4) production, showing the importance of physical contact between T and B lymphocytes in the Th2-mediated process. In contrast, two anti-CD2 antibodies that have been shown to induce immunosuppression of Th1-mediated events exacerbated the autoantibody response and augmented IgG1, IgE, and IL-4 production, transforming a mild mesangial glomerulopathy into a severe systemic immune complex disease. These observations demonstrate that manipulation of lymphocyte accessory counterreceptor interactions may affect the course of Th2-associated autoimmune disease and suggest that signals resulting from CD2 engagement play an essential role in the regulation of the Th1-Th2 effector equilibrium.
Nasal administration of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65) peptides induces Th2 responses and prevents murine insulin-dependent diabetes.	We previously demonstrated that a spontaneous Th1 response against glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65) arises in NOD mice at four weeks in age and subsequently T cell autoimmunity spreads both intramolecularly and intermolecularly. Induction of passive tolerance to GAD65, through inactivation of reactive T cells before the onset of autoimmunity, prevented determinant spreading and the development of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Here, we examined whether an alternative strategy, designed to induce active tolerance via the engagement of Th2 immune responses to GAD65, before the spontaneous onset of autoimmunity, could inhibit the cascade of Th1 responses that lead to IDDM. We observed that a single intranasal administration of GAD65 peptides to 2-3-wk-old NOD mice induced high levels of IgG1 antibodies to GAD65. GAD65 peptide treated mice displayed greatly reduced IFN gamma responses and increased IL-5 responses to GAD65, confirming the diversion of the spontaneous GAD65 Th1 response toward a Th2 phenotype. Consistent with the induction of an active tolerance mechanism, splenic CD4+ (but not CD8+) T cells from GAD65 peptide-treated mice, inhibited the adoptive transfer of IDDM to NOD-scid/scid mice. This active mechanism not only inhibited the development of proliferative T cell responses to GAD65, it also limited the expansion of autoreactive T cell responses to other beta cell antigens (i.e., determinant spreading). Finally, GAD65 peptide treatment reduced insulitis and long-term IDDM incidence. Collectively, these data suggest that the nasal administration of GAD65 peptides induces a Th2 cell response that inhibits the spontaneous development of autoreactive Th1 responses and the progression of beta cell autoimmunity in NOD mice.
Suppression of murine allergic contact dermatitis by CTLA4Ig. Tolerance induction of Th2 responses requires additional blockade of CD40-ligand.	Blockade of costimulation through the B7-CD28 pathway by CTLA4Ig can lead to Ag-specific T cell tolerance. Most models studied to date involve a Th1-dependent response. To investigate whether the tolerizing effects of CTLA4Ig might vary depending upon the cytokine nature of the immune response, we studied its effects on contact hypersensitivity (CHS) in response to two allergens. In BALB/c mice, both 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) and FITC induce CHS. However, the DNFB response is Th1-predominant, while the FITC response is Th2 predominant. CTLA4Ig treatment during primary sensitization induced long-lasting unresponsiveness to DNFB, with 88% and 76% inhibition of primary (first challenge) and secondary (re-sensitization and re-challenge) CHS, respectively. In contrast, CTLA4Ig inhibited primary CHS to FITC by over 82% but had little effect on secondary CHS. Consistent with its effects on CHS, the suppressive effect of CTLA4Ig on Th2 cells was short-lived in FITC-sensitized mice, while Th1-like cytokine-secreting cells remained reduced in DNFB-sensitized mice, even when the animals were rechallenged with DNFB. The addition of anti-CD40L Ab to CTLA4Ig was able to induce long-lasting unresponsiveness to FITC, indicating the ability of cells mounting this Th2 response to receive costimulatory signals through either pathway. In conclusion, CHS can be mediated by both Th1 and Th2 cells, and the ability of CTLA4Ig to lead to long-standing nonresponsiveness in this model depends on the nature (i.e., cytokine profile) of the immune response.
Expression of L-selectin (CD62L) discriminates Th1- and Th2-like cytokine-producing memory CD4+ T cells.	Human memory (CD45RO+) CD4+ T cells can be distinguished into two subpopulations on the basis of expression of the lymph node homing receptor, L-selectin (CD62L). In a prior study we showed that human L-selectin-positive memory T-helper (Th) cells promote the maturation of IgG- and IgA-producing cells by naive B cells. To further elucidate the contribution of memory CD4+ T cells to B-cell differentiation, human memory CD4+ T cells with or without L-selectin expression were evaluated for production of cytokines that participate in regulation of immunoglobulin production. It was found that L-selectin-positive human memory CD4+ T cells produce mainly interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5, whereas L-selectin-negative CD4+ T cells produce mainly interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). This profile of cytokine expression coincides with the profile that distinguishes Th1 and Th2 subsets. In contrast to the murine system, IL-10 production was similarly contributed by human L-selectin-positive and -negative memory CD4+ T-cell subpopulations. These results suggest that the human L-selectin-negative and -positive subpopulations of human memory CD4+ T cells contain Th1-like and Th2-like cytokine-producing cells, respectively.
Impaired immunity and altered pulmonary responses in mice with a disrupted interferon-gamma receptor gene exposed to the irradiated Schistosoma mansoni vaccine.	A high level of protection against Schistosoma mansoni is elicited in mice by the irradiated cercaria vaccine and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is a key cytokine in the pulmonary effector response. The role of this cytokine has been investigated in mice with a targeted disruption of the IFN-gamma receptor gene (IFN-gamma R-/- mice). The level of protection was impaired relative to that elicited in C57BL/6 and 129 wild-type (WT) animals. These two groups developed compact effector foci, of largely mononuclear cell composition, around individual challenge parasites migrating through the lungs. In contrast the IFN-gamma R-/- mice showed a massive and generalized leucocytic infiltration of the airways and interstitium in which eosinophils were a prominent feature. Cultures of airway leucocytes from C57BL/6 mice produced abundant IFN-gamma whilst those from IFN-gamma R-/- mice produced interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5 and IL-10, indicating default to the Th2 pathway; the WT animals showed an intermediate response. The pattern of cytokine gene transcripts in whole lung tissue agreed remarkably well with the level of cytokine protein detected in leucocyte cultures, with the exception of substantial IL-4 mRNA but negligible protein in C57BL/6 mice. The loose but intense infiltrate of leucocytes in the lungs of IFN-gamma R-/- mice was clearly ineffective in eliminating challenge parasites, whereas the level of IFN-gamma protein and mRNA in the lungs of C57BL/6 and WT mice correlated with the size and compactness of effector foci. On the basis of these and earlier observations, we suggest that a primary role for IFN-gamma is to promote intercellular adhesion between the leucocytes in an effector focus, promoting its ability to block parasite migration.
Aspergillus fumigatus peptides differentially express Th1 and Th2 cytokines.	Relevant allergens from Aspergillus fumigatus associated with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) have been cloned and expressed. The pathogenesis of ABPA probably depends on specific cytokines and immunoglobulins secreted by lymphocytes on stimulation with different epitopes of those allergens. In the present study, we synthesized peptides of 12-16 amino acids from the sequence of Asp fI and compared their immunological responses in four mice strains (BALB/c, C57BL/6, AKR, and CBA). Of the five peptides studied for their cytokine profile, one showed a clear Th1, whereas another showed a Th2 response. The remaining three peptides varied in their immunoreactivity. The results suggest that a number of epitopes of diverse activities are present in individual molecules and may be involved in the pathogenesis of ABPA through differential cytokine secretions.
T-cell subsets: chemokine receptors guide the way.	Recent results show that chemokine receptors and adhesion molecules can be differentially expressed on the different subsets of T helper cells, suggesting that regulated networks of gene expression may control tissue-specific migration of T helper cells.
Interleukin-12 is essential for a protective Th1 response in mice infected with Cryptococcus neoformans.	To analyze the roles of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and the IL-12-dependent Th1 response in resistance to Cryptococcus neoformans, we have established a chronic infection model in wild-type mice and in mice with targeted disruptions of the genes for the IL-12p35 and IL-12p40 subunits (IL-12p35(-/-) and IL-12p40(-/-) mice, respectively) as well as in mice with a targeted disruption of the IL-4 gene. Long-term application of exogenous IL-12 prevented death of infected wild-type mice for the entire period of the experiment (up to 180 days) but did not resolve the infection. Infected IL-12p35(-/-) and IL-12p40(-/-) mice died significantly earlier than infected wild-type mice, whereas infection of IL-4-deficient mice led to prolonged survival. Interestingly, infected IL-12p40(-/-) mice died earlier and developed higher organ burdens than IL-12p35(-/-) mice, which, for the first time in an infection model, suggests a protective role of the IL-12p40 subunit independent of the IL-12 heterodimer. The fungal organ burdens of IL-4-deficient mice and IL-12-treated wild-type mice were significantly reduced compared to those of untreated wild-type mice and IL-12-deficient mice. Histopathological analysis revealed reduction of the number of granulomatous lesions following treatment with IL-12. Susceptibility of both IL-12p35(-/-) and IL-12p40(-/-) mice was associated with marginal production of gamma interferon and elevated levels of IL-4 from CD4(+) T cells, which indicates Th2 polarization in the absence of IL-12, whereas wild-type mice developed a Th1 response. Taken together, our data emphasize the essential role of IL-12 for protective Th1 responses against C. neoformans.
Ramsay Hunt syndrome associated with eosinophilic pneumonia]	A 66-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital because of dry coughing. Ten days before admission, the patient had suffered from facial palsy accompanying otic zoster infection (Ramsay Hunt syndrome). Acyclovir was given, and during the two weeks after admission, the facial palsy resolved completely. The dry coughing worsened, and marked eosinophilia developed (1.930/mm3). A chest roentgenogram and a computed tomogram revealed wandering non-segmental infiltration in the left lung field. Examination of a specimen obtained by transbronchial lung biopsy revealed moderate eosinophilic infiltration into thickened alveolar septa and alveolar spaces. An elevated CD 4/CD 8 ratio (4.12) and a high level of eosinophilic cationic protein (8.730 micrograms/l) were found in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Eosinophilic pneumonia was diagnosed. The patients condition improved without medication within one month after the onset of the dry coughing. Laboratory results revealed no parasitic or mycotic infection, and both an acyclovir skin test and a lymphocyte stimulation test were negative, which suggested that the pneumonia had been induced by an allergic reaction to unknown antigens resulting from Th 1/Th 2 imbalance after reactivation of varicella-zoster virus latent in sensory ganglia.
Cytokines and allergic response]	Allergic reactions are under the control of several events that occur sequentially following allergen exposure, recognition by the immune system, IgE production and their interaction with effector cells bearing Fc epsilon receptors. The lymphocyte activation in response to allergens determines the intensity and the nature of the immune response. Cytokines produced by T (and non-T) cells are involved in the polarized development of the specific immune response. In particular, type 1 and type 2 cytokines are responsible for the control of the different steps during allergic reactions. Th2 cytokines and particularly IL4 are responsible for switching the immunoglobulin synthesis by B cells to IgE production. They also play a key role in the activation of effector cells that occurs following allergen interaction with fixed specific IgE and participate to the local inflammatory reaction. Cytokine profile determination appears to represent a helpful laboratory parameter in the understanding of the mechanisms underlying allergic diseases. The development of new technological tools may allow the use of cell activation parameters, and cytokine profiles determination in clinical biology. This review aims to analyze the involvement of the cytokine network in the mechanisms leading to IgE production and the involvement of cytokines in effector mechanisms of allergic reactions. It also analyses the potential use of cytokine profile determination for diagnosis purpose and survey of immune desensitization of allergic diseases.
IL-4-regulated enteropathy in an intestinal nematode infection.	The relationship between intestinal pathology and immune expulsion of gastrointestinal nematodes remains controversial. Parasite expulsion is associated with intestinal pathology in several model systems and both of these phenomena are T cell dependent. Immune expulsion of gastrointestinal helminth parasites is usually associated with Th2 responses, but the effector mechanisms directly responsible for parasite loss have not been elucidated. In contrast, the intestinal pathology observed in many other disease models closely resembles that seen in helminth infections, but has been attributed to Th1 cytokines. We have used infection with the nematode Trichinella spiralis in mice defective for cytokines or their receptors to investigate cytokine regulation of both immunopathology and parasite rejection. Consistent with previous findings, we found that parasite expulsion is IL-4 dependent. Contrary to expectations, however, the enteropathy is not regulated by IFN-gamma but by IL-4. Moreover, abrogation of severe pathology in TNF receptor-defective animals does not prevent parasite expulsion. TNF is therefore involved in intestinal pathology in nematode infections, apparently under regulation by IL-4- and Th2-mediated responses. This work therefore not only reveals a novel interplay between IL-4 and TNF, but also that the IL-4-dependent protective response against the parasite operates by a mechanism other than merely the gross degradation of the parasite's environment brought about by the immune enteropathy.
In the absence of IL-12, the induction of Th1-mediated protective immunity by the attenuated schistosome vaccine is impaired, revealing an alternative pathway with Th2-type characteristics.	Vaccination of mice with irradiated Schistosoma mansoni larvae confers high levels of immunity which is mediated by Th1-type lymphocytes. To investigate a possible role for IL-12 in the induction of protection, we have compared the immune response of IL-12 p40-deficient (KO) mice and their C57BL/6 (WT) counterparts following vaccination. Cultured lymph node cells from KO mice had markedly altered cytokine profiles with significantly decreased production of IFN-gamma increased IL-4. Correspondingly, KO mice had enhanced levels of IgE. After challenge, cells recovered from the lungs of KO mice secreted abundant IL-4 and IL-5 but little IFN-gamma, while flow cytometric and histological analysis of lung cell populations recorded a very high proportion of eosinophils. The levels of protection in KO mice were substantially lower than in their WT counterparts, demonstrating the importance of IL-12 and Th1-mediated immune responses. This conclusion is reinforced by the administration of rIL-12 to KO mice immediately after vaccination which led to increased IFN-gamma and the restoration of protective immunity. Nevertheless, the data also indicated that the limited levels of protection induced in KO mice occur via an IL-12-independent pathway, possibly mediated by Th2 cells.
The role of helper T cell subsets in autoimmune diseases.	CD4 helper T cells can be divided into Th1 and Th2 subsets based upon the cytokines they produce. Th1 and Th2 cells have been found to be mutually antagonistic, leading to either Th1- or Th2-dominated responses upon immunization. In recent years, several authors have suggested that in chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis, Th1 cells are pathogenic and Th2 cells are protective. Therefore, a successful deviation from a Th1-dominated to a Th2-dominated response could have clinical benefits for individuals suffering from these diseases. Unfortunately, data accumulated over recent years have not supported this approach, in particular regarding the protective role of Th2 cells. In this review we discuss these data and conclude that, at least using currently available tools, immune deviation from Th1 to Th2-dominated responses is ineffective unless started at very early (subclinical) stages of the disease. In addition, we examine some recent data suggesting that, under some circumstances, Th2 cells can be pathogenic.
Impaired NK1.1+ T cells do not prevent the development of an IgE-dependent allergic phenotype.	The induction of TH2 immune responses is critically dependent on initial IL-4. Although crucial, the source of this early IL-4 has not been identified. One candidate is a CD1 restricted NK1.1+ T cell subpopulation which is known to produce such early IL-4.
The involvement of CD80 and CD86 costimulatory molecules in the induction of eosinophilia in mice infected with Nippostrongylus brasiliensis.	The costimulatory signal provided by the interaction between CD28 and its ligands, CD80 and CD86, is critical for T cell activation. The requirement of CD80 and CD86 in T cell activation for eosinophilia and IgE production was examined in mice infected with the nematode parasite Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. Combined treatment with anti-CD80 and anti-CD86 suppressed eosinophilia in the blood and the small intestine and suppressed IgE production. However, administration of either anti-CD80 or anti-CD86 alone had little effect on eosinophilia and on the elevation of IgE levels. These results suggest that CD80 and CD86 costimulation is required and either CD80 or CD86 can provide a sufficient costimulatory signal for induction of eosinophilia in mice infected with N. brasiliensis.
Blockade of CD28/B7 interaction suppresses allergic eosinophilic inflammation in mice.	To determine whether the costimulatory signal via CD28/B7 interaction is required for causing allergic inflammation, we examined the effect of administration of CTLA4-Ig, a fusion protein of the extracellular domain of CTLA4 and human IgG1-constant region, at the time of sensitization, on antigen-induced eosinophil infiltration in the trachea of sensitized mice, on IL-2, IFN-gamma, IL-4 and IL-5 production in the airways of the mice and on antigen-specific IgE synthesis in the mice. Administration of CTLA4-Ig at the time of sensitization suppressed antigen-induced eosinophil infiltration into the trachea and antigen-specific IgE production in mice. Furthermore, CTLA4-Ig administration at the time of sensitization suppressed not only IL-2 production but also IFN&hyphengamma and Th2 cytokine IL-4 and IL-5 production in the airways. Because allergic inflammation requires CD4+ T cells producing Th2-type cytokines IL-4 and IL-5, our results suggest that the costimulatory signal via CD28/B7 interaction is important for the generation and activation of Th2 cells and thereby for the development of allergic inflammation.
Value of lacrymal IgE determination and conjunctival cytology in the diagnosis of chronic conjunctivitis]	Chronic conjunctival inflammatory diseases may depend upon various strongly intricated mechanisms. Discriminating allergy from nonspecific inflammation has become of striking importance for diagnosis and treatment. We investigated conjunctival inflammatory response by comparing two objective biological tools, tear IgE detection and HLA DR expression by conjunctival epithelium, as indirect indicators of activation of the Th1 and Th2 subsets, respectively.
Expression and function of CTLA-4 in Th1 and Th2 cells.	CTLA-4 is expressed on T cells after activation and shares homology with the CD28 costimulatory receptor. In contrast to CD28, CTLA-4 is thought to be a negative regulator of T cell activation. Cross-linking of CTLA-4 during activation of peripheral T cells reduces IL-2 production and arrests T cells in G1. Much less is known about the function of CTLA-4 in differentiated T cells. We have investigated the expression and function of CTLA-4 in established Th1 and Th2 clones and in bulk populations of Th1 and Th2 cells freshly derived in vitro from TCR transgenic splenocytes. We found that CTLA-4 was induced under similar conditions and with similar kinetics following activation of both Th1 and Th2 clones. However, CTLA-4 expression was much higher in Th2 than Th1 clones and lines. This was confirmed by flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and Northern blot analysis. The ratio of surface to intracellular expression of CTLA-4 and its rate of endocytosis were similar in Th1 and Th2 clones. Inhibition of binding of CTLA-4 to its ligands using soluble anti-CTLA-4 mAb during stimulation with Ag increased the production not only of IL-2 by Th1 clones, but also that of IL-3 and IFN-gamma by Th1 clones and of IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 by Th2 clones. In contrast, when anti-CTLA-4 was coimmobilized with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 mAbs, a decrease in the production of multiple cytokines was observed. We conclude that CTLA-4 can function to suppress the production of cytokines produced by both Th1 and Th2 cells.
IFN-gamma is required for IL-12 responsiveness in mice with Candida albicans infection.	To elucidate the role of IFN-gamma in antifungal CD4+ Th-dependent immunity, 129/Sv/Ev mice deficient for IFN-gamma receptor (IFN-gammaR(-/-)) were assessed for susceptibility to gastrointestinal or systemic Candida albicans infection and for parameters of innate and adaptive T helper immunity. IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice failed to mount protective Th1-mediated acquired immunity upon mucosal immunization or in response to a live vaccine strain of the yeast. The impaired Th1-mediated resistance correlated with defective IL-12 responsiveness, but not IL-12 production, and occurred in the presence of an increased innate antifungal resistance. The development of nonprotective Th2 responses was observed in IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice upon mucosal infection and subsequent reinfection. However, under experimental conditions of Th2 cell activation, the occurrence of Th2 cell responses was similar in IFN-gammaR(-/-) and in IFN-gammaR(+/+) mice. These results indicate the complex immunoregulatory role of IFN-gamma in the induction of mucosal and nonmucosal anticandidal Th cell responses; IFN-gamma is not essential for the occurrence of Th2 responses but is required for development of IL-12-dependent protective Th1-dependent immunity.
Intestinal nematode parasites, cytokines and effector mechanisms.	Laboratory models of intestinal nematode infection have played an important role in developing our understanding of the immune mechanisms that operate against infectious agents. The type of helper T cell response that develops following infection with intestinal nematode parasites is critical to the outcome of infection. The early events that mediate polarisation of the helper T cell subsets towards either Th1 or Th2 during intestinal nematode infection are not well characterised, but it is likely that multiple factors influence the induction of a Th1 or Th2 type response, just as multiple effector mechanisms are involved in worm expulsion. Costimulatory molecules have been shown to be important in driving T helper cell development down a specific pathway as has the immediate cytokine environment during T cell activation. If helper T cells of the Th2 type gain ascendancy then a protective immune response ensues, mediated by Th2 type cytokines and the effector mechanisms they control. In contrast, if an inappropriate Th1 type response predominates the ability to expel infection is compromised. Equally important is the observation that multiple potential effector mechanisms are stimulated by nematode infection, with a unique combination operating against the parasite depending on nematode species and its life cycle stage. Despite the close association between intestinal nematode infection and the generation of eosinophilia, mastocytosis and IgE it has been difficult to consistently demonstrate a role for these effector cells/molecules in resistance to nematode parasites, although mast cells are clearly important in some cases. It therefore seems that, in general, less classical Th2 controlled effector mechanisms, which remain poorly defined, are probably important in resistance to nematode parasites. Thus, our understanding of both the induction and effector phases remains incomplete and will remain an intense area of interest in the coming years.
Th2 cytokines exert a dominant influence on epithelial cell expression of the major group human rhinovirus receptor, ICAM-1.	Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 is a cell receptor important in both human rhinovirus (HRV) attachment and immune effector cell mobilization. The level of expression of ICAM-1 by epithelial cells (EC) therefore plays a crucial role in the intricate biological phenomena underlying viral binding, host infection and consequent inflammatory events. As T-helper (Th)2 lymphocytes predominate within the asthmatic airway, the influence was evaluated of Th2-associated mediators in the modulation of ICAM-1 expression on uninfected and HRV-infected EC. H292 EC were cultured in vitro, with varying concentrations of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13 for 24 h and then infected with live HRV-14. Surface ICAM-1 expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry. Infection with HRV-14 resulted in a twofold increase in ICAM-1 expression. IL-4, IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13 produced a 2.7-5.1-fold enhancement of ICAM-1 expression of uninfected cells and caused approximately a further twofold increase in infected cells over the expression induced by HRV infection itself. Interferon-gamma in combination with each Th2-associated cytokine only slightly reduced, but did not override, the Th2-induced level of ICAM-1 expression on both uninfected and virus-infected EC. These data suggest that the effects of Th2-associated cytokines on intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression and recovery of infectious virus are dominant over the effects of the Th1-associated cytokines such as interferon-gamma. Since the airway mucosa in atopic asthma is predominantly infiltrated by Th2 lymphocytes, these results could explain both the increased susceptibility to human rhinovirus infection in asthmatic patients and the associated exacerbation of asthma symptoms.
Divergent effects of interleukin-4 and interferon-gamma on macrophage-derived chemokine production: an amplification circuit of polarized T helper 2 responses.	Macrophage-derived chemokine (MDC) is a CC chemokine that recognizes the CCR4 receptor and is selective for T helper 2 (Th2) versus T helper 1 (Th1) cells. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of the prototypic Th2/Th1 cytokines, interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), on the production of MDC by human monocytes. IL-4 and IL-13 caused a time-dependent (plateau at 24 hours) and concentration-dependent (EC50 2 and 10 ng/mL, respectively) increase of MDC mRNA levels in monocytes. Increased expression of MDC mRNA was associated with protein release in the supernatant. MDC expression and production induced by IL-4 and IL-13 were inhibited by IFN-gamma. IFN-gamma also suppressed the constitutive expression of MDC in mature macrophages and dendritic cells. These results delineate an amplification loop of polarized Th2 responses based on differential regulation of MDC production by IL-4 and IL-13 versus IFN-gamma and on the selectivity of this chemokine for polarized Th2 cells.
mRNA cytokine profile in peripheral blood cells from chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients: effects of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment.	Natural immune responses, both cellular and humoral, are not capable of terminating HCV infection in most patients. A role has been suggested for peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL) in viral persistence and clinical implications, as these cells may serve as a viral reservoir and at the same time may be inadequate active participants in antiviral immune reactions. IFN-alpha administration, although only partially successful, is currently the main therapy available for chronic HCV patients. In addition to its antiviral effects, IFN-alpha regulates the function of cytokines, their receptors and other molecules of immune importance. The aim of this study was to determine cytokine mRNA expression in PBL derived from chronic HCV patients prior to and at termination of IFN-alpha treatment. HCV RNA was still observed in sera of most patients (10 out of 14 treated patients) at termination of treatment. In pretreated patients mRNA expression of Th2 (IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10) and Th3 (transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)) was observed in only a low percentage of PBL samples from patients, similar to controls. IFN-alpha treatment led to an elevation in the number of samples expressing these cytokines (significant for IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and TGF-beta), accompanied by reduction in liver enzymes but in serum viral load in only approximately 30% of patients. Expression of TNF-alpha and TNF-beta mRNA was observed in samples from patients but not controls, while no differences were observed for mRNA of classical Th1 cytokines (IL-2 and IFN-gamma) between patients before or during treatment as well as controls. The cytokine mRNA profile following IFN-alpha treatment points to an anti-inflammatory response which does not appear to be involved in termination of the viral infection. The PBL cytokine profile observed in this study may explain the failure of the immune system to eradicate HCV chronic infection and suggests that early treatment in the acute phase of disease with agents that stimulate cytotoxic immune type 1 responses may lead to eradication of HCV infection.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF-related molecules in HIV-1+ individuals: relationship with in vitro Th1/Th2-type response.	We examined the secretion and expression by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of TNF-alpha and TNF-related molecules with regard to Th1/Th2-type cytokine production. In 76 HIV+ patients at different disease stages and in 25 controls we measured cytokine (TNF-alpha/beta, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), and activation marker secretion (sCD4, sCD8, sCD30) in phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated and unstimulated PBMC cultures by ELISA, and membrane-bound TNF-alpha and CD30 expression by flow cytometry. We found an expansion of the TNF system in HIV+ individuals, that positively correlated with TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and sCD8, probably representing activation of the cytotoxic compartment. In advanced disease these correlations disappeared, and TNF-alpha and TNF-related molecules positively correlated with IL-10. Our results are in line with the hypothesis that an expanded TNF system is immunopathological in conjunction with Th2-type immunity in the advanced stage of disease and with the inexorable progression to disease seen when both IL-10 and TNF-alpha are elevated.
Strong expression of CD134 (OX40), a member of the TNF receptor family, in a T helper 2-type cytokine environment.	CD134 (OX40) is involved in T cell costimulation and T cell-dependent antibody production. We show strongly increased T cell expression of CD134 in a model of T helper 2-mediated systemic autoimmunity, induced by HgCl2. Regulation of CD134 expression on CD4+ T cells was further studied in vitro, identifying CD134 as an early marker of T cell activation. CD134 expression could be induced by interleukin-4, but not by interferon-gamma or tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Effects of interleukin-4 and of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate on CD134 expression could be blocked by the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporin. Combination of these stimuli with ionomycin resulted in a strongly synergistic increase of CD134 expression, which was blocked by the calcineurin-inhibitor cyclosporin A. The results demonstrate the involvement of two synergistically acting pathways in induction of CD134 expression. Furthermore, they suggest a role for interleukin-4 in induction of CD134 expression in vivo.
Endogenous IL-10 regulates IFN-gamma and IL-5 cytokine production and the granulomatous response in Schistosomiasis mansoni-infected mice.	In murine Schistosomiasis mansoni circumovum, granuloma formation is regulated by pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Among the latter, interleukin-10 (IL-10) has been shown to regulate the inflammatory response. In this study we examined the role of endogenously produced IL-10 in T-helper 1 (Th1)- and Th2-type cytokine production and granuloma formation. The dynamics of IL-10 production through the course of the infection were different in granuloma versus splenic cells. In the former, production peaked during the early developmental stage (6 weeks of infection) of the granuloma and then declined. In splenocytes production peaked at 12 weeks, before down-modulation of the granuloma response. In the developing granuloma both macrophages and T cells secreted IL-10. In anti-IL-10 monoclonal antibody (mAb)-supplemented granuloma cell cultures endogenous IL-10-mediated regulation of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was manifest only at 6 weeks; that of IL-2 continued throughout the infection (6-20 weeks). IL-4 production was unaffected, but IL-5 production was regulated at the 6 and 8 weeks time point. Splenocytes showed regulation of IFN-gamma and IL-2 production at the peak of the granulomatous response (8 weeks). IL-4 production was not regulated, whereas IL-5 production was regulated only at 6 weeks. Repeated injections of anti-IL-10 mAb given to mice at 6, 12 or 20 weeks of the infection significantly enhanced liver and lung granuloma growth, tissue eosinophilia, and IFN-gamma, IL-5 production at the early developmental phase (6 weeks) of the lesions. Thus, in schistosome-infected mice endogenous IL-10 is shown to regulate Th1- and Th2-type cytokine production and granuloma formation during the early Th0/Th1 phase of the immune response.
Characterization and specificity of B-cell responses in lupus induced by Mycobacterium bovis in NOD/Lt mice.	A single dose of pasteurized Mycobacterium bovis administered intravenously to prediabetic non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice prevented the onset of type 1 diabetes but precipitated a systemic 'autoimmune rheumatic disease' (ARD) similar to systemic lupus erythematosus. This syndrome was characterized by haemolytic anaemia, anti-dsDNA and anti-Smith antigen (Sm) antinuclear autoantibodies, increased severity of sialadenitis and glomerular immune complex deposition. Here, we examine the specificity of the autoantibody responses in M. bovis-treated NOD mice. Large amounts of antibody were detected to the Sm/ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex, of which the 28 000 MW polypeptide appeared to be immunodominant. The IgG subclass involved in the anti-Sm response was primarily IgG2a. Antibodies against dsDNA were also detected, but the subclass of this response was mixed, with IgG2a and IgG2b being present in equal amounts. Together, these findings argue against a role for immune deviation towards T helper type 2 (Th2) responses in pathogenesis of the disease. The anti-dsDNA and anti-Sm reactivities were not mediated by polyreactive antibodies since neither antigen could cross-compete plasma antibody binding to the other in competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The role of polyclonal B-cell activation was examined by measuring total gamma-globulin as well as IgG reactive with other nuclear antigens including Ro60, Ro52 and La, which although not a major component of the autoantibody responses in these mice, did show small but significant increases following immunization with M. bovis. Thus polyclonal stimulation, while likely to be occurring, was not directly responsible for production of anti-Sm antibodies.
Rat NKR-P1+ CD3+ T cells: selective proliferation in interleukin-2, diverse T-cell-receptor-Vbeta repertoire and polarized interferon-gamma expression.	Cells expressing markers of both natural killer and T lymphocytes (NK T cells) in humans and mice express a restricted T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, are of CD4- CD8- or CD4+ CD8- phenotype, and upon anti-CD3 stimulation secrete large amounts of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). NK T cells may be the primary source of IL-4-promoting T helper type 2 (Th2) responses and/or they might be involved in regulating the balance between Th1- and Th2-type immune responses, and may consequently affect susceptibility to autoimmune diseases associated with a skewed Th phenotype. We show that rat NK T cells selectively proliferate to IL-2, and use this fact to analyse cytokine production by NK T cells in two rat strains differentially susceptible to Th1- or Th2-type autoimmune diseases. Analysis by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that, in contrast to mouse, rat NK T cells secrete exclusively IFN-gamma and not IL-4 after anti-CD3 stimulation, and use a wider TCR-Vbeta repertoire, suggesting that rat NK T cells are not essential for the development of Th2-type CD4+ T-cell responses.
Murine immune responses to Schistosoma haematobium and the vaccine candidate rSh28GST.	Longitudinal studies of Schistosoma haematobium infection in CBA mice revealed a progressive down-regulation of cellular immune responses, as measured by mitogenic and antigenic stimulation of in vitro lymphocyte cultures. Antigen-stimulated production of the Th1 cytokine IFN-gamma by splenocytes increased progressively up to 14 weeks post infection, (four weeks after the onset of parasite egg production), before declining swiftly. Levels of the Th2 cytokine IL-4 in the same cultures remained low until 14 weeks, after which they rose rapidly as IFN-gamma declined. High levels of IL-10 coincided with the peak in IFN-gamma production, suggesting a non Th2-restricted role for this cytokine. Both total and antigen-specific immunoglobulin production confirmed parasite egg deposition as being a major stimulus for host humoral responses. The S. haematobium infection failed to elicit detectable T cell responses to the antifecundity vaccine candidate rSh28GST. However, low levels of antibody were detectable in infected mouse serum and strong IgG and IgA production was induced by vaccination with rSh28GST plus adjuvant.
IL-4-independent induction of airway hyperresponsiveness by Th2, but not Th1, cells.	We investigated the role of Th1 or Th2 cells in airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), because both IFN-gamma and IL-4 and IL-5-producing CD4 T cells have been identified in the airways of asthmatics. After transfer of in vitro-generated TCR transgenic Th1 or Th2 cells and exposure to inhaled Ag, Th2 cells induced AHR and airway eosinophilia, whereas Th1 cells induced neutrophilic inflammation without AHR. Next, to determine the precise effector function of IL-4 in Th2 cell-induced AHR, we transferred IL-4(-/-) Th2 cells into wild-type and IL-4(-/-) recipient mice. After exposure to inhaled Ag, both groups of mice exhibited AHR with markedly reduced airway eosinophilia. Thus, IL-4 production by Th2 cells is not essential for the induction of AHR, but is critical for the migration of eosinophils from lung tissue into the airways.
Differential responsiveness of the IL-5 and IL-4 genes to transcription factor GATA-3.	The cytokines IL-4 and IL-5 are often coordinately produced by Th2 cells as in asthma. However, it is unclear whether similar molecular mechanisms underlie transcription of the two genes. We have previously shown that the transcription factor GATA-3 is expressed in Th2 but not Th1 cells and is crucial for activation of the IL-5 promoter by different stimuli. In a different study, GATA-3 was shown to be sufficient for the expression of IL-4 and other Th2 cytokine genes. Here, we show that ectopic expression of GATA-3 is sufficient to drive IL-5 but not IL-4 gene expression. Also, in Th2 cells, antisense GATA-3 RNA inhibits IL-5 but not IL-4 promoter activation. The induction of IL-5 gene expression by GATA-3 involves high affinity binding of GATA-3 to an inverted GATA repeat in the IL-5 promoter.
GATA-3-dependent enhancer activity in IL-4 gene regulation.	Previously, we analyzed the proximal IL-4 promoter in directing Th2-specific activity. An 800-base pair proximal promoter conferred some Th2-selective expression in transgenic mice. However, this region directed extremely low reporter mRNA levels relative to endogenous IL-4 mRNA, suggesting that full gene activity requires additional enhancer elements. Here, we analyzed large genomic IL-4 regions for enhancer activity and interaction with transcription factors. The proximal IL-4 promoter is only moderately augmented by GATA-3, but certain genomic regions significantly enhanced GATA-3 promoter transactivation. Some enhancing regions contained consensus, GATA sites that bound Th2-specific complexes. However, retroviral transduction of GATA-3 into developing T cells induced IL-5 to full Th2 levels, but only partially restored IL-4 production. Thus, we propose that GATA-3 is permissive, but not sufficient, for full IL-4 enhancement and may act through GATA elements surrounding the IL-13/IL-4 gene locus.
High antigen density and IL-2 are required for generation of CD4 effectors secreting Th1 rather than Th0 cytokines.	We reevaluated the effects of Ag dose on the polarization of CD4 effectors generated in vitro from naive pigeon cytochrome c-specific TCR transgenic T cells under conditions in which we could eliminate contaminating non-naive CD4 cells and the effects of heterogeneous Ag-presenting populations. When the possibility of contaminating non-naive T cells was reduced by using T cells from transgenic mice on a RAG-2(-/-) background, Ag dose did not have a significant effect in Th1 and Th2 polarization unless exogenous IL-2 was initially added to cultures. Effectors generated were uniformly Th0 but produced only IL-2 in substantial amounts. When exogenous IL-2 was added to priming cultures, T cells secreting a Th0 phenotype (large quantities of IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, and IFN-gamma) developed, except at very high doses of Ag, where there was a striking reduction in IL-4 and IL-5 secretion. Our results imply that Ag dose does not have a direct effect on Th1/Th2 polarization, except under conditions that include a high level of TCR ligation and in the presence of high levels of IL-2, where production of Th2 cytokines may be down-regulated by a mechanism that is not yet clear.
Lipid vesicle size determines the Th1 or Th2 response to entrapped antigen.	Understanding the factors that control the differential induction of Th1 and Th2 responses is a key immunologic objective with profound implications for vaccination and immunotherapy of infectious and autoimmune diseases. Using Ag formulated in lipid vesicles prepared from nonionic surfactants, we describe a novel mechanism influencing the balance of the Th1 or Th2 response. Our results indicate that inoculation of BALB/c mice with vesicles with a mean diameter > or = 225 nm preferentially induces Th1 responses, as characterized by increased titers of IgG2a in plasma and elevated IFN-gamma production by lymph node cells. However, preparation of the same quantity of Ag in vesicles with mean diameter of < or = 155 nm induces a Th2 response, as identified by IgG1 in the absence of IgG2a production and increased lymph node IL-5 production. Although large (> or = 225 nm) vesicles could induce IL-12 production, smaller vesicles (< or = 155 nm) could not. However, small vesicles did induce higher levels of IL-1beta production by macrophages than larger vesicles. The role of IL-12 in this response was confirmed in IL-12-deficient mice, whose spleen cells failed to produce IFN-gamma following in vivo priming with Ag prepared in large vesicles. Our results therefore indicate that macrophages respond to endocytosis of large or small vesicles by producing different patterns of cytokines that can subsequently direct the immune response toward a Th1 or a Th2 phenotype.
Down-regulation of tumoricidal NK and NK T cell activities by MHC Kb molecules expressed on Th2-type gammadelta T and alphabeta T cells coinfiltrating in early B16 melanoma lesions.	We examined whether gammadelta T and alphabeta T cells accumulating in early B16 melanoma lesions regulate NK and NK T cells that attack tumor cells. Freshly isolated and cultured tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) populations of NK and NK T cells lysed B16 and produced IFN-gamma, whereas gammadelta T and a large part of alphabeta T cell populations had no substantial cytotoxicity against B16 and secreted Th2 cytokines. Furthermore, the freshly isolated NK1.1+ TIL population exhibited a higher anti-B16 effect than did splenocytes. Gammadelta T and alphabeta T cell populations dramatically inhibited the cytotoxicity of NK and NK T cells in an MHC Kb-dependent manner. Culture supernatant from gammadelta T and alphabeta T cell populations inhibited the proliferation of NK and NK T cell populations but did not affect their cytotoxicity, suggesting that the released Th2 cytokines are merely partly involved in the down-modulation of NK-lineage cells. NK1.1+ cells obtained from TIL of gammadelta T cell-depleted mice significantly lysed B16 cells compared with those from control mice. Finally, anti-Kb Fab mAb injected intralesionally at an early, but not at a late, stage of development of B16 melanoma inhibited tumor growth. These findings suggest that Th2-type gammadelta T and alphabeta T cells infiltrating in early B16 development inhibit the tumoricidal activity of NK-lineage cells using their class I molecules and partly their suppressive cytokines.
Heat-killed Listeria monocytogenes as an adjuvant converts established murine Th2-dominated immune responses into Th1-dominated responses.	We investigated the capacity of heat-killed Listeria monocytogenes (HKL), a potent stimulator of the innate immune system, as a vaccine adjuvant to modify both primary and secondary Ag-specific immune responses. Mice immunized with the Ag keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) mixed with HKL generated a KLH-specific primary response characterized by production of Th1 cytokines and large quantities of KLH-specific IgG2a Ab. Moreover, administration of KLH with HKL as an adjuvant reversed established immune responses dominated by the production of Th2 cytokines and high levels of KLH-specific IgE and induced a Th1-type response with high levels of IFN-gamma and IgG2a and low levels of IgE and IL-4. Neutralization of IL-12 activity at the time of HKL administration blocked the enhancement of IFN-gamma and reduction of IL-4 production, indicating that IL-12, induced by HKL, was responsible for the adjuvant effects on cytokine production. These results suggest that HKL as an adjuvant during immunization can successfully bias the development of Ag-specific cytokine synthesis toward Th1 cytokine production even in the setting of an ongoing Th2-dominated response. Thus, HKL may be clinically effective in vaccine therapies for diseases such as allergy and asthma, which require the conversion of Th2-dominated immune responses into Th1-dominated responses.
The role of ICAM-1/LFA-1 and VCAM-1/VLA-4 interactions on T helper 2 cytokine production by lung T cells of Toxocara canis-infected mice.	In order to study the effect of costimulatory signals on T helper type 2 (Th2) cytokine production, monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against cell adhesion molecules (CAM) were added to cells in culture obtained from the lungs of Toxocara canis (Tc)-infected mice followed by the determination of interleukin-5 (IL-5) and IL-4 in the supernatants of the culture. ES-stimulated IL-5 production in the supernatant of total lung cells was reduced by 25% when anti-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (anti-ICAM-1) mAb, anti-CD11a mAb, or both anti-ICAM-1 and anti-CD11a mAb together were added to the culture. The addition of anti-CD18 mAb had no effects. Anti-vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (anti-VCAM-1) mAb addition also reduced IL-5 production by 60%, although the addition of anti-very late activation antigen-4 (anti-VLA-4) mAb or both anti-VCAM-1 and anti-VLA-4 mAb together were less effective. In the case of anti-CD3 mAb stimulation, similar effects of mAb to CAM were observed. In contrast, IL-4 production induced by anti-CD3 mAb was reduced more markedly by the addition of either anti-ICAM-1 or anti-CD11a mAb than the combination of anti-VCAM-1 and anti-VLA-4 mAb. Similar effects of mAb to CAM were observed on the production of IL-5 and IL-4 by CD4+ T cells purified using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter. Coincubation with adherent cells was necessary for the significant production of IL-5 and IL-4 by CD4+ T cells. These results suggest that the VCAM-1/VLA-4 interaction is more important for IL-5 production by CD4+ T cells in the lungs of Tc-infected mice, and that the ICAM-1/lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 interaction is more important for the production of IL-4.
Expression of Th1/Th2 cytokine mRNA in peritoneal exudative polymorphonuclear neutrophils and their effects on mononuclear cell Th1/Th2 cytokine production in MRL-lpr/lpr mice.	Peritoneal exudative polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PEC-PMN) and mononuclear cells (PEC-MNC) were obtained from normal BALB/c and from autoimmune MRL-lpr/lpr mice (lpr) with different disease severities. The spontaneous and mitogen-stimulated expression of T-helper lymphocyte type-1 (Th1) [represented by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin (IL-2)] and T-helper lymphocyte type-2 (Th2) (represented by IL-4 and IL-10) cytokine mRNA in these cells was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The production of these cytokines was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We found that the spontaneous expression of Th1/Th2 cytokine mRNA in PEC-PMN from autoimmune mice was progressively increased in parallel with disease severity but was not changed by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. By contrast, spontaneous expression of Th1/Th2 cytokine mRNA in PEC-MNC from these mice was progressively decreased in parallel with disease severity but retained the responsiveness to phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation. To determine the effect of PEC-PMN on Th1/Th2 cytokine production by PEC-MNC, autologous PEC-PMN and PEC-MNC were co-cultured at MNC:PMN ratios of 5:0, 4:1, 3:2, 2:3, 1:4 and 0:5 with PHA stimulation for 24 hr. The production of cytokines at each ratio was compared with the expected value, by calculation. We found that PEC-PMN from autoimmune mice progressively suppressed the production of IL-4, IL-10 and IFN-gamma whereas the production of IL-2 was enhanced by autologous MNC in parallel with disease severity. These results suggest that a reciprocal relationship exists in the expression of Th1/Th2 cytokine mRNA between PEC-PMN and PEC-MNC in lpr mice in parallel with disease severity. Autoimmune PEC-PMN can exert significant modulatory effects on Th1/Th2 cytokine production by autologous MNC in stimulation.
Role of T-helper type 2 cytokines in down-modulation of fas mRNA and receptor on the surface of activated CD4(+) T cells: molecular basis for the persistence of the allergic immune response.	The mechanisms responsible for persistence of T lymphocytes at the sites of allergic inflammation are not completely understood. Activated T cells, usually expressing Fas on their surface, undergo activation-induced apoptotic death, thus limiting the dangerous consequences of a persistent immune reaction. We have previously shown that pulmonary T lymphocytes from untreated asthmatic subjects do not express surface Fas receptors nor do they contain Fas mRNA, yet they display normal levels of Fas ligand. This is not an inherited defect and is confined to mucosal T cells. To gain insights into the mechanism responsible for these findings, we performed a set of experiments with both purified Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus allergen and recombinant human cytokines: interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-4, IL-5, transforming growth factor beta1, interferon gamma, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). In vitro exposure of purified CD4(+) lymphocytes to allergen yielded only transient up-regulation of surface Fas but did not influence susceptibility to Fas-mediated cell death. T-helper type 2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, and GM-CSF) had a dose-dependent and specific inhibitory effect on Fas mRNA, suggesting a new fundamental biological role in the survival of inflammatory cells during allergen exposure.
Resting respiratory tract dendritic cells preferentially stimulate T helper cell type 2 (Th2) responses and require obligatory cytokine signals for induction of Th1 immunity.	Consistent with their role in host defense, mature dendritic cells (DCs) from central lymphoid organs preferentially prime for T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-polarized immunity. However, the "default" T helper response at mucosal surfaces demonstrates Th2 polarity, which is reflected in the cytokine profiles of activated T cells from mucosal lymph nodes. This study on rat respiratory tract DCs (RTDCs) provides an explanation for this paradox. We demonstrate that freshly isolated RTDCs are functionally immature as defined in vitro, being surface major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II lo, endocytosishi, and mixed lymphocyte reactionlo, and these cells produce mRNA encoding interleukin (IL)-10. After ovalbumin (OVA)-pulsing and adoptive transfer, freshly isolated RTDCs preferentially stimulated Th2-dependent OVA-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 responses, and antigen-stimulated splenocytes from recipient animals produced IL-4 in vitro. However, preculture with granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor increased their in vivo IgG priming capacity by 2-3 logs, inducing production of both Th1- and Th2-dependent IgG subclasses and high levels of IFN-gamma by antigen-stimulated splenocytes. Associated phenotypic changes included upregulation of surface MHC II and B7 expression and IL-12 p35 mRNA, and downregulation of endocytosis, MHC II processing- associated genes, and IL-10 mRNA expression. Full expression of IL-12 p40 required additional signals, such as tumor necrosis factor alpha or CD40 ligand. These results suggest that the observed Th2 polarity of the resting mucosal immune system may be an inherent property of the resident DC population, and furthermore that mobilization of Th1 immunity relies absolutely on the provision of appropriate microenvironmental costimuli.
Chronic experimental colitis induced by dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) is characterized by Th1 and Th2 cytokines.	Oral administration of DSS has been reported to induce an acute and chronic colitis in mice. The aim of our study was to evaluate if the chronic phase of DSS-induced colitis was characterized by a Th1/Th2 response and how this would relate to mucosal regeneration. Swiss Webster mice were fed 5% DSS in their drinking water for 7 days, followed by 2-5 weeks consumption of water. Control mice received only water. The animals were killed at 3 and 6 weeks after induction. Their colons were isolated for histology and immunohistochemistry, using specific MoAbs for T and B cells, macrophages, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4 and IL-5. Colons were scored for inflammation, damage and regeneration. Two weeks after stopping DSS the colonic epithelium had only partially healed. Total colitis scores were still increased, especially in the distal colon, which was due to more inflammation, damage and less regeneration. In areas of incomplete colonic healing the basal parts of the lamina propria contained macrophages and CD4+ T cells. These CD4+ T cells showed a focal increase of IFN-gamma and IL-4 staining compared with control animals. These findings were still observed 5 weeks after stopping DSS in some mice, albeit less extensive. Chronic DSS-induced colitis is characterized by focal epithelial regeneration and a Th1 as well as Th2 cytokine profile. We postulate that chronic immune activation mediated by both populations of Th cells can interfere with colonic healing and can play a role in the pathogenesis of chronic colitis.
Differential regulation of Th1 and Th2 cells by p91-110 and p21-40 peptides of the 16-kD alpha-crystallin antigen of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.	Permissively recognized peptides which can activate lymphocytes from subjects with a variety of class II HLA types are interesting diagnostic and vaccine candidates. In this study we generated T helper clones reactive to the permissively recognized p21-40 and p91-110 peptides of the 16-kD heat shock protein of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. All the clones specific for p91-110 secreted interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and were of the Th1 phenotype. By contrast, the p21-40 peptide favoured the generation of IL-4-producing clones. Antibody blockade established that the peptide-specific Th clones could either be DR-, DP- or DQ-restricted. Thus, two permissively recognized sequences p21-40 and p91-110 from the same mycobacterial antigen can drive the differentiation of functionally distinct T helper subsets. Attempts to immunize against tuberculosis should bear in mind epitope specificity if a favourable Th subtype response is to be generated.
Inhibitory function of two NFAT family members in lymphoid homeostasis and Th2 development.	Nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) is a critical regulator of early gene transcription in response to TCR-mediated signals. Here, we show that mice lacking both NFATp and NFAT4 develop a profound lymphoproliferative disorder likely due to a lowered threshold for TCR signaling coupled with increased resistance to apoptosis secondary to defective FasL expression. NFAT mutant mice also have allergic blepharitis, interstitial pneumonitis, and a 10(3) to 10(4) fold increase in serum IgG1 and IgE levels, secondary to a dramatic and selective increase in Th2 cytokines. This phenotype may be ascribed to unopposed occupancy of the IL-4 promoter by NFATc. Our data demonstrate that lymphoid homeostasis and Th2 activation require a critical balance among NFAT family members.
Both CD80 and CD86 co-stimulatory molecules regulate allergic pulmonary inflammation.	We examined the roles of CD80 (B7-1) and CD86 (B7-2) in a model of allergic pulmonary inflammation and airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR) by selectively inhibiting either CD80 or CD86. Inhibition of co-stimulation by either CD80 or CD86 affected multiple parameters of the allergic response. Specifically, blockade of either CD80 or CD86 in ovalbumin-sensitized and challenged mice resulted in reduced expression of IL-2Ralpha (CD25) on CD4+ T lymphocytes, decreased airway eosinophilia, lower serum IgE production and diminished AHR. Importantly, blockade of CD80 and CD86 inhibited production of IL-4 and IL-2, and enhanced IFN-gamma production. Our observations support a role for both CD80- and CD86-mediated co-stimulation in development of allergic pulmonary inflammation.
Induction of the chemokine beta peptides, MIP-1 alpha and MIP-1 beta, by lipopolysaccharide is differentially regulated by immunomodulatory cytokines gamma-IFN, IL-10, IL-4, and TGF-beta.	The macrophage occupies a central role in the host response to invasion, exerting its control over the developing inflammatory response largely through the elaboration of an assortment of endogenous mediators including many cytokines. The beta chemokine peptides, macrophage inflammatory protein [MIP]-1 alpha and MIP-1 beta, are two such effectors markedly up-regulated in macrophages following exposure to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). These highly homologous peptides, like the other members of the beta chemokine family, exhibit diverse but partially overlapping biological activity profiles, suggesting that the cellular participants and intensity of an inflammatory response may in part be regulated by selective expression of these chemokines. Studies reported here demonstrate that, in contrast to the "balanced" MIP-1 alpha/MIP-1 beta chemokine responses of LPS-stimulated macrophage cultures in vitro, circulating levels of MIP-1 beta are significantly higher than those of MIP-1 alpha following LPS administration in vivo. Further studies have revealed that several immunomodulatory cytokines known to be up-regulated in vivo as a consequence of exposure to an invasive stimulus (gamma-IFN, IL-10, IL-4, and transforming growth factor [TGF]-beta) down-regulated the LPS-induced release of MIP-1 alpha by macrophages in vitro, but spared the MIP-1 beta response. This altered pattern of secretion may explain, at least in part, the high circulating levels of MIP-1 beta relative to MIP-1 alpha observed in vivo in response to LPS challenge.
Th2 biased immune response in cases with active Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection and tuberculin anergy.	This study was aimed at investigating the immunologic relationship between cytokine production pattern and tuberculin negativity in patients with active Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. After classifying patients by the extent of pulmonary involvement and the size of the tuberculin reaction, we evaluated the rate of cytokine positivity in peripheral blood to determine whether there is a characteristic cellular immune reaction pattern which could partly explain the tuberculin negativity in some of these cases. The significance of tuberculin anergy occurring in some cases with M. tuberculosis infection is still not clear. We investigated the ratio of IL- 4, IL-10, IL-12, CD-4, CD-8 expressing lymphocytes in the peripheral blood of patients with active M. tuberculosis infection and correlated the percentage of the reactive cells with the positivity or negativity of tuberculin skin reactions. Twenty-eight patients were included in the study, with 11 healthy volunteers serving as controls. 10 ml of venous blood was drawn before starting anti-mycobacterial treatment. A tuberculin skin test was performed, introducing intracutaneously 5 TU PPD on the forearm with results evaluated after 72 h. Consistent with the reactivity or non-reactivity of the tuberculin skin test, we found a significantly higher ratio of IL-4 and IL-10 positive lymphocytes and a significantly lower ratio of IL-12 in the peripheral blood of patients with tuberculin anergy than in that of tuberculin positive patients or healthy donors. There was no difference in the ratio of the CD-4 CD-8 positive lymphocytes among the three groups. To evaluate whether the differences could be explained by the degree of pulmonary tubercular involvement, we classified the patients into three groups according to the extent and type of X-ray findings. Seven out of eight tuberculin negative patients were classified as grade III, whereas in the tuberculin positive group only seven out of 20 fell in this category. There was no significant correlation between the radiological grade of the patients and the examined in vitro parameters unless the tuberculin reactivity of each patients was also considered. Tuberculin anergy may reflect an inappropriate immune response to the intracellular pathogen. The high percentage of IL-4 and IL-10 positive lymphocytes together with a low percentage of IL-12 positive lymphocytes in the peripheral blood of anergic patients suggests a Th2 biased immune response during the early course of the disease.
Langerhans cells do not express alternative macrophage activation-associated CC chemokine (AMAC)-1.	We have cloned a novel human CC chemokine, alternative macrophage activation-associated CC chemokine (AMAC)-1 that is highly homologous to macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha. In contrast to MIP-1alpha, AMAC-1 is induced in macrophages by Th2-associated cytokines IL4, IL13, and IL10 in vitro; in addition, AMAC-1 is expressed by Th1-suppressive alveolar macrophages in vivo. Surprisingly, however, AMAC-1 is also expressed by GM-CSF-induced, in vitro monocyte-derived dendritic cells when treated by IL4. Here, we present a detailed analysis of AMAC-1 expression in monocyte-derived dendritic cells in vitro and show that the prime dendritic cells in vivo, i.e. epidermal Langerhans cells, do not express AMAC-1 mRNA. In conclusion, AMAC-1 is a novel CC chemokine whose Th2-associated expression pattern in alternatively activated suppressor macrophages in vivo and in vitro and its absence from epidermal Langerhans cells in vivo suggest that it may be involved in inhibition of Th1 reactions and in tolerance induction.
Cytokine production in varicella-zoster virus-stimulated cultures of human blood lymphocytes.	Estimates of responder cell frequency (RCF) based on limiting dilution analyses are laborious, and alternative means to quantitate cell-mediated immunity to immunogens are desirable. It was shown that levels of interleukin (IL)-2 in the supernatant of varicella-zoster virus-stimulated blood lymphocytes from immune adults peaked at 48 h of culture and correlated partially with estimates of RCF (r = .74, P = .003). Levels of gamma-interferon, IL-4, and IL-10 increased through the first 4 days of culture, and gamma-interferon levels showed some correlation with peak IL-2 levels (r = .48, P = .03). Nevertheless, correlations between levels of these cytokines and RCF did not reach statistically significant levels.
Identification and characterization of autoreactive T cell responses to bullous pemphigoid antigen 2 in patients and healthy controls.	Antibodies against the extracellular domain of bullous pemphigoid antigen 2 (BPAG2) are thought to play a key role in the pathogenesis of bullous pemphigoid (BP), the most frequent autoimmune bullous disease of the skin. Autoreactive T cell responses to BPAG2 were investigated in 16 BP patients and 24 healthy controls by coculture of PBMC with two recombinant BPAG2 proteins (extracellular domain of BPAG2). Primary in vitro T cell responses to BPAG2 were observed in 10/12 BP patients expressing the BP-associated HLA-DQB1*0301 allele and 8/10 DQB1*0301 positive healthy individuals. DQB1*0301 also restricted three autoreactive T cell lines from two BP patients and a healthy donor. In contrast, PBMC from 14 normal patients carrying HLA class II alleles other than DQB1*0301 were not stimulated by BPAG2. Autoreactive BPAG2-specific CD4(+) T cell lines and clones from five BP patients produced both Th1 and Th2 cytokines, whereas three autoreactive T cell lines from three DQB1*0301 positive normal patients produced exclusively IFN-gamma. The absence of BPAG2-specific Th2 cells in healthy individuals strongly suggests that autoreactive Th2 responses to BPAG2 are restricted to BP patients and may thus be critical in the pathogenesis of BP.
Requirement for IL-13 independently of IL-4 in experimental asthma.	The pathogenesis of asthma reflects, in part, the activity of T cell cytokines. Murine models support participation of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and the IL-4 receptor in asthma. Selective neutralization of IL-13, a cytokine related to IL-4 that also binds to the alpha chain of the IL-4 receptor, ameliorated the asthma phenotype, including airway hyperresponsiveness, eosinophil recruitment, and mucus overproduction. Administration of either IL-13 or IL-4 conferred an asthma-like phenotype to nonimmunized T cell-deficient mice by an IL-4 receptor alpha chain-dependent pathway. This pathway may underlie the genetic associations of asthma with both the human 5q31 locus and the IL-4 receptor.
Increased production of a Th2 cytokine profile by activated whole blood cells from rheumatoid arthritis patients.	T cells produce regulatory cytokines which control inflammation. In rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a Th1 cytokine profile has been described in the synovium. In order to assess the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance in blood, a one step culture-immunoassay procedure was used to measure the ex vivo production of IFN gamma and IL-4 by whole blood cells from 26 RA patients and 25 controls. For comparison, the same cytokines were measured by ELISA in supernatants of activated whole blood cells. The direct whole blood assay was 10-fold more sensitive than standard ELISA to measure IL-4 levels. IL-4 production was higher in RA patients than in controls, whereas that of IFN gamma was lower. Accordingly, the IL-4/IFN gamma ratio, which reflects the Th2/Th1 cytokine balance in blood, was higher in RA patients (P < 0.0001). The present findings indicate a Th2-over-Th1 cytokine balance profile in RA blood. These results are in contrast with the Th1-over-Th2 pattern previously found in the joint, indicating that the two compartments appear to be differently regulated.
Lack of Th2 cytokine increase during spontaneous remission of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis.	The mechanisms underlying spontaneous remission of autoimmune diseases are presently unknown, though regulatory T cells are believed to play a major role in this process. We tested the hypothesis that Th2 and/or other T cell regulatory cytokines cause the spontaneous remission of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of Th1-mediated autoimmunity. We analyzed the cytokine profile of lymph node and central nervous system-infiltrating cells in individual SJL mice at different stages of proteolipid protein (PLP) 139-151 peptide-induced EAE. We found that IFN-gamma slowly fades away after clinical recovery, whereas IL-4, IL-10 and transforming growth factor-beta remain low or undetectable. Our peptide-results therefore suggest that regulatory T cells producing anti-inflammatory cytokines are not involved in spontaneous remission of EAE and challenge the view that the Th1/Th2 balance has a key role in EAE regulation.
Parasite dose determines the Th1/Th2 nature of the response to Leishmania major independently of infection route and strain of host or parasite.	Leishmania major causes cutaneous leishmaniasis in mice and man. Infection of mice with relatively low or high numbers of parasites leads respectively to parasite containment, associated with a Th1, cell-mediated response, or progressive disease, associated with a Th2, antibody response in all circumstances studied. These include different parasite strains, different routes of infection, and different hosts previously classified as susceptible, resistant or of intermediate susceptibility. This dose dependency appears to reflect a general rule. We argue that this rule may allow the design of a vaccination strategy that is effective among a genetically diverse population, and that it imposes severe constraints upon proposals for the nature of the "decision criterion" determining whether antigen induces a Th1 or Th2 response.
CTLA4 (CD152) modulates the Th subset response and alters the course of experimental Leishmania major infection.	Since both the nature and the amplitude of an antigen-specific T cell response are dependent on co-stimulatory signals, we have investigated the role of CD28/CD152-mediated T cell co-stimulation in the regulation of experimental cutaneous leishmaniasis. CD28-deficient mice and their wild-type littermates are equally susceptible to Leishmania major infection. Whole anti-CD152 antibody significantly exacerbates the disease while anti-CD152 Fab ameliorates the disease in genetically susceptible BALB/c mice but not in C57BL/6, a resistant strain. The anti-CD152-induced exacerbation of the disease is accompanied by increased IL-4-secreting cell number, diminished parasite-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response and augmented anti-2,4,6-trinitrophenyl (TNP) IgG1 in response to TNP-leishmanial antigen crude soluble antigen (CSA), suggesting an exaggerated Th2 type of response. Anti-CD152 Fab-mediated amelioration of the disease is associated with increased IFN-gamma-secreting cell number, increased parasite-specific DTH response and enhanced IgG2a isotype in response to TNP-CSA suggesting a Th1 type of response. Unlike TNP-CSA, TNP-keyhole limpet hemocyanin does not induce the change in Ig isotype, indicating that the immunomodulatory effect of anti-CD152 is antigen specific. Anti-CD152 antibody-induced early change in Th subsets suggests an important role for CD152 in determining the course of L. major infection, perhaps by alteration of Th subset differentiation.
Induction or protection from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis depends on the cytokine secretion profile of TCR peptide-specific regulatory CD4 T cells.	Autoimmune diseases can result from the breakdown of regulation and subsequent activation of self-antigenic determinant-reactive T cells. During the evolution of the autoimmune response to myelin basic protein (MBP) in B10.PL mice, several distinct T cell populations expand: the effectors mediating experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) are MBP-reactive, CD4+, and predominantly TCR Vbeta8.2+; in addition, at least two regulatory populations can be detected--one comprised of Vbeta14+ CD4 T cells, reactive to a framework region 3 determinant on the Vbeta8.2 chain, and a second that is CD8+ and reactive to another Vbeta8.2 determinant. The combined action of these two regulatory cell types controls disease-causing effectors, resulting in spontaneous recovery from disease. In this report, we reveal that the cytokine secretion pattern of TCR peptide-specific regulatory CD4 T cells can profoundly influence whether a type 1 or type 2 population predominates among MBP-specific CD4 effectors. The priming of type 1 regulatory T cells results in deviation of the Ag-specific effector T cell population in a type 2 direction and protection from disease. In contrast, induction of type 2 regulatory T cells results in exacerbation of EAE, poor recovery, and an increased frequency of type 1 effectors. Thus, the encephalitogenic potential of the MBP-reactive effector population is crucially and dominantly influenced by the cytokine secretion phenotype of regulatory CD4 T cells. These findings have important implications in understanding peripheral tolerance to self-Ags as well as in the design of TCR-based therapeutic approaches.
Leishmania mexicana cysteine proteinase-deficient mutants have attenuated virulence for mice and potentiate a Th1 response.	Leishmania mexicana mutants lacking cysteine proteinase genes cpa (delta cpa), cpb (delta cpb), or both cpa and cpb (delta cpa/cpb) have been generated by targeted gene disruption. Delta cpa mutants produce a disease phenotype in BALB/c mice close to that of wild-type L. mexicana, but delta cpb mutants are much less infective, producing very slowly growing small lesions, and delta cpa/cpb double mutants do not induce lesion growth. Immunologic analysis of Ab isotype during infection and splenocyte IFN-gamma, IL-2, and IL-4 production following stimulation with Leishmania Ag or Con A indicates that there was a significant shift from a predominantly Th2-associated immune response in mice infected with wild-type L. mexicana to a Th1-associated response in mice inoculated with delta cpb or delta cpa/cpb. Significantly, delta cpa altered the balance of the immunologic response to a lesser extent than did the other mutants. Similar disease outcomes and switches in the Th1/Th2 balance were also observed when other L. mexicana-susceptible mouse strains were infected with the mutants. BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice vaccinated with delta cpa/cpb and CBA/Ca mice vaccinated with delta cpb or delta cpa/cpb were subsequently more resistant, to varying degrees, than were untreated mice to infection with wild-type parasites, as measured by development of lesions and parasite burden. These data implicate leishmanial cysteine proteinases not only as parasite virulence factors but also in modulation of the immune response and provide strong encouragement that cysteine proteinase-deficient L. mexicana mutants are candidate attenuated live vaccines.
Environmental antigen-induced IL-13 responses are elevated among subjects with allergic rhinitis, are independent of IL-4, and are inhibited by endogenous IFN-gamma synthesis.	Human immediate hypersensitivity diseases represent the most common example of chronic excessive Th2-like activation in developed nations. While IL-13 shares many functional properties with IL-4, the intensity and regulation of environmental Ag-stimulated IL-13 synthesis by allergic vs nonallergic individuals remain ill defined. Here, we examine the intensity of polyclonally and Ag-stimulated IL-13 production by PBMC of 20 subjects with seasonal allergic rhinitis and 20 healthy controls. Polyclonally driven IL-13 responses did not differ significantly (Mann-Whitney U test, p = 0.68). In contrast, the median CD4-dependent IL-13 response among atopics was markedly stronger than nonatopics in Ag-stimulated primary culture (p = 0.0031) and exhibited a strong correlation with IL-5 (r = 0.76, p = 0.0009), but not IL-4 (r = 0.14, p > 0.05), responses. IL-13 production was unaffected by blocking endogenous IL-4 or IL-5 activity or by addition of rIL-4 or rIL-5. In contrast, it was inhibited by low levels of rIFN-gamma and strongly enhanced upon addition of neutralizing anti-IFN-gamma mAb. Collectively, the data are consistent with a negative regulatory role for endogenous IFN-gamma synthesis in controlling the intensity of systemic IL-13 responses evoked in both atopic and nonatopic populations following exposure to common Ags. They also suggest that the elevated levels of IL-4 and IL-5 characteristic of type 2-dominated responses in vivo are without detectable impact on the maintenance of recall Ag-stimulated IL-13 production.
Immunostimulatory DNA sequences inhibit IL-5, eosinophilic inflammation, and airway hyperresponsiveness in mice.	We have used a mouse model of allergen-induced airway hyperresponsiveness to demonstrate that immunostimulatory DNA sequences (ISS) containing a CpG DNA motif significantly inhibit airway eosinophilia and reduce responsiveness to inhaled methacholine. ISS not only inhibited eosinophilia of the airway (by 93%) and lung parenchyma (91%), but also significantly inhibited blood eosinophilia (86%), suggesting that ISS was exerting a significant effect on the bone marrow production of eosinophils. The inhibition of the bone marrow production of eosinophils by 58% was associated with a significant inhibition of T cell-derived cytokine generation (IL-5, granulocyte-macrophage CSF, and IL-3). ISS exerted this inhibitory effect on T cell cytokine production indirectly by stimulating monocytes/macrophages and NK cells to generate IL-12 and IFNs. The onset of the ISS effect on reducing the number of tissue eosinophils was both immediate (within 1 day of administration) and sustained (lasted 6 days), and was not due to ISS directly inducing eosinophil apoptosis. ISS was effective in inhibiting eosinophilic airway inflammation when administered either systemically (i.p.), or mucosally (i.e., intranasally or intratracheally). Interestingly, a single dose of ISS inhibited airway eosinophilia as effectively as daily injections of corticosteroids for 7 days. Moreover, while both ISS and corticosteroids inhibited IL-5 generation, only ISS was able to induce allergen-specific IFN-gamma production and redirect the immune system toward a Th1 response. Thus, systemic or mucosal administration of ISS before allergen exposure could provide a novel form of active immunotherapy in allergic diseases.
Cytokine patterns in seropositive and seronegative patients with Echinococcus granulosus infection.	To investigate the involvement of immunological variables, including the Th1/Th2 balance, in the mechanisms underlying seronegativity in cystic echinococcosis (CE), Th1 and Th2 cytokines were evaluated in ELISA determining IFN-gamma, IL-4, -5 and -10 production in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cultures from 16 patients (six seronegative and ten seropositive) with CE and from six healthy donors. Patients who had undetectable antibody levels in their sera invariably produced no IL-5 and scarce IL-4 and -10 (Th2 response); both groups of patients produced similar amounts of IFN-gamma; (Th1 response). The analysis of host clinical features and cyst characteristics shows that these variables do not explain the lack of detectable serum antibody levels. These findings suggest that seronegativity arises because unknown host or parasite factors, or both, cause inadequate Th2 cell activation thus reducing production of Th2 cytokines, including IL-5, the cytokine primarily implicated in immunoglobulin expression in CE.
Elevation of serum IgE level and peripheral eosinophil count during T lymphocyte-directed gene therapy for ADA deficiency: implication of Tc2-like cells after gene transduction procedure.	We have successfully carried out T-cell-directed gene therapy for a boy with severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA SCID) and unexpectedly found an elevation of serum IgE level and peripheral eosinophil count during the course. More than 90% of transduced cells cultured for 7-11 days before infusion into the patient were positive for CD8 and expressed Th2-type cytokine genes such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. Furthermore, CD4(+) T-depleted PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) from the patient synthesized IgE in vitro by stimulation with IL-4. Collectively, these results suggested that Tc2-like cells in the transduced cells have distinct immunological functions to help IgE synthesis and activate eosinophils.
Lentivirus-mediated transduction of islet grafts with interleukin 4 results in sustained gene expression and protection from insulitis.	Autoimmune destruction of islets in the pancreas leads to the development of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Replacement of insulin-producing tissue by transplantation of islets provides a cure to disease but requires immunosuppression or a means of controlling anti-graft immune responses. To promote islet survival we have utilized a local approach by expressing immunoregulatory molecules in islet grafts. The results presented here show that the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-based lentiviral vector is capable of stably transducing whole islets. Foreign reporter gene expression was observed both in vitro and in vivo 30 days after transplantation. Grafts containing insulin-positive beta-islet cells expressing foreign protein indicate that transduction does not interfere with glucose regulation. The absence of inflammatory infiltrates in grafts suggests that transduction does not activate the immune system. When islets transduced with an HIV vector expressing IL-4 were transplanted into diabetes-prone mice, animals were protected from autoimmune insulitis and islet destruction. As demonstrated by proliferative and cytokine analysis, protection was consistent with a switching of islet-antigen-specific T cell responses toward a Th2 phenotype. These results suggest that HIV-based lentivirus vectors can efficiently transduce islet cells with genes encoding potentially therapeutic molecules, for possibly managing diabetes.
