Imaging of myocardial viability:  a head-to-head comparison among nuclear, echocardiographic, and angiographic techniques.	The relationship between radioisotopic, echocardiographic, and angiographic markers of myocardial viability is still to be defined.  To this purpose, 14 patients with previous myocardial infarction were studied using a multiparametric approach.  Each patient underwent, on separate days, rest thallium 201 and technetium 99m Sestamibi planar scintigraphy, dobutamine/dipyridamole stress echocardiography, and coronary angiography; 11 of these patients underwent also dipyridamole echocardiographic testing.  Thallium 201 and Sestamibi uptakes at rest were expressed as percentage of maximal activity in each projection using a 13 segment model.  Dobutamine and dipyridamole stress echocardiography were analyzed using a score index ranging from 1 (normokinesis) to 4 (dyskinesis) and a similar segmentation.  Coronary angiography was analyzed by quantitative approach.  In all patients, follow-up echocardiography was performed following coronary revascularization.  Before revascularization, 75 segments showed regional dyssynergies.  Thallium 201 showed the highest sensitivity and specificity in the preoperative identification of viability, whereas Sestamibi was affected by a significant number of false-negative studies.  Among echocardiographic techniques, dobutamine was slightly superior to dipyridamole in the detection of viable segments.  The degree of coronary stenosis failed to predict the recovery of function following by-pass graft or angioplasty in almost all segments; however, in case of occlusion, most viable segments were perfused by adequately collateralized coronary arteries.
Selective preoperative cardiac screening improves five-year survival in patients undergoing major vascular surgery: a cost-effectiveness analysis.	To evaluate the long-term outcomes (5-year survival) and cost-effectiveness of selective coronary revascularization before major vascular surgery.
Fuzzy cluster analysis of positive stress tests: comparison with stress echocardiography and nuclear perfusion imaging in patients with triple vessel and left main coronary disease.	Fuzzy cluster analysis (FCA) was used to classify 166 outpatient positive treadmill stress tests as mildly, moderately, or severely abnormal. The method combines ST-segment change with five other stress test variables, and then computes a similarity measure to determine how closely each patient's stress test resembles a prototypical mildly, moderately, or severely abnormal stress test. All patients had coronary angiography within 1 month of their stress tests. For the 45 patients with triple vessel disease (TVD), FCA classified 34 of these stress tests as severely abnormal (sensitivity = 75%). For the 22 patients with left main disease (LM), FCA classified 19 stress tests as severely abnormal (sensitivity = 86%). For the combined group with high-grade disease (TVD + LM), the sensitivity was 79%. A literature review shows that for stress echocardiography, multiple exercise-induced wall motion abnormalities have a sensitivity in the 70-80% range for patients with high-grade disease. For nuclear stress testing, the high-risk pattern of multiple reversible defects, with or without increased lung uptake, has a sensitivity in the range of 70-80% for patients with high-grade disease. Thus classification of a positive stress test as severely abnormal by FCA has a sensitivity comparable to high-risk patterns on stress echocardiography and nuclear stress testing in patients with TVD or LM.
Thallium-201 scintigraphy in malignant mesothelioma.	A patient with malignant pleural mesothelioma was investigated using 201Tl scintigraphy. There was diffuse pleural tumour accumulation on planar scintigraphy. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) demonstrated exact tumour location. It is concluded that planar scintigraphy using 201Tl may be useful in detecting mesothelioma. Clearer tumour localization is possible with SPECT.
Is the shortening of the QTc interval in Q-wave leads showing ST segment shift during exercise testing a new ECG marker of myocardial ischemia and viability in patients with previous anterior myocardial infarction?	To evaluate whether the shortening of the QTc-interval, measured in Q-wave leads showing ST segment elevation during exercise testing may be a marker of stress-induced transmural ischemia (and indirectly of myocardial viability) in the infarct zone in patients with prior Q-wave anterior myocardial infarction.
Effects of medical therapy on outcome assessment using exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography imaging: evidence of a protective effect of beta-blocking antianginal medications.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether antianginal medications modify the prognostic significance of exercise single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ischemia.
Gated TI-201 myocardial perfusion SPECT: application of energy window optimization.	TI-201 scintigraphy is plagued with poor image quality because of the low-energy photons of TI-201 decay. Traditionally, a narrow 20% window centered on 71-72 keV has been used to improve sensitivity. Recent studies indicate that better imaging may be possible by optimizing the energy window to 34% centered on 77 keV. In this study, energy window optimization (EWO) was applied to gated TI-201 myocardial perfusion SPECT, and myocardial functional parameters were compared for gated TI-201 SPECT and gated Tc-99m sestamibi (Tc-99m MIBI) SPECT.
Differentiation between recurrent brain tumour and post-radiation necrosis: the value of 201Tl SPET versus 18F-FDG PET using a dual-headed coincidence camera--a pilot study.	The aim of this study was to determine whether it is possible to differentiate between recurrent disease and post-treatment necrosis in patients treated for a primary brain tumour. This prospective study was designed to compare the sensitivity and specificity of 201Tl single photon emission tomography (SPET) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) using a dual-headed coincidence camera. Sixteen patients suspected of having recurrent brain tumour (10 men, 6 women) (mean age 39.5 years, range 21-57 years) were studied. 201Tl SPET and 18F-FDG PET studies were performed on the same day. An increase in activity was considered indicative of tumour recurrence. The images were also quantified using a thallium index and an FDG index. The 18F-FDG PET images were also assessed visually using a 5-point scale. The diagnosis of tumour recurrence was based on clinical course and/or follow-up computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The sensitivity of 201Tl SPET and 18F-FDG PET was 92% (11/12) and 62% (7/12) respectively. One patient initially assessed as having necrosis showed a recurrence 9 months after both studies. McNemar's analysis of these results showed a statistically significant difference (P = 0.023) in the ability of the two methods to separate with accuracy tumour from radiation necrosis. No correlation was found between the thallium index and the FDG index (r = 0.36). We conclude that 201Tl SPET is a sensitive modality for the detection of brain tumour recurrence. 18F-FDG imaging using a dual-headed coincidence camera gave significantly poorer results compared to 201Tl SPET. Our results do not justify continuation of this prospective comparative study.
Multiple myeloma evaluated with 201Tl scintigraphy compared with bone scintigraphy.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical usefulness of 201Tl chloride scintigraphy in the diagnostic evaluation of 20 patients with multiple myeloma (19/20 patients) or extramedullary plasmacytoma (1/20 patients) in comparison with bone scintigraphy.
Microdialysis and the measurement of muscle interstitial K+ during rest and exercise in humans.	The purpose of this study was to examine whether microdialysis and the internal reference thallium-201 ((201)Tl) could accurately measure muscle interstitial K+ (Ki+) before, during, and after exercise. The relative loss of (201)Tl and simultaneous relative recovery of K+ were measured in vitro for 12 microdialysis probes that were bathed in Ringer acetate medium and perfused at various flows (3-10 microl/min). (201)Tl loss was linearly related to K+ recovery, and their level of agreement was not different from zero. Microdialysis and (201)Tl were then used to measure Ki+ in the gastrocnemius medialis muscle of four humans during rest and static plantar flexion exercise. At rest, Ki+ was 3.9-4.3 mmol/l when the perfusate flow was 2 or 5 microl/min. During exercise, Ki+ increased from 6.9 +/- 0.4 to 7.5 +/- 0.3 mmol/l at low to high intensity and declined to 5.2 +/- 0.3 mmol/l after exercise. These results suggest that large changes in Ki+ in human skeletal muscle can be accurately measured by using microdialysis and (201)Tl.
Tumor imaging using 201Tl chloride and 67Ga citrate in nucleomedical surveys]	Among nucleomedical examinations for cancer, tumor imaging using 201Tl chloride and 67Ga citrate can be easily performed at almost any hospital. However, the planar images usually obtained are not sufficient to detect small tumorous lesions. For more accurate detection, tomographic images particularly single photon emission CT (SPECT) is necessary. SPECT is also indispensable in cancer diagnosis. Whether 201Tl SPECT or 67Ga SPECT is chosen depends upon tumor localization, histological type, and the final purpose of the study. 201Tl accumulates in almost all tumors, but it is not suitable for detection of abdominal lesions, because there is much physiological accumulation in the small intestine and kidney. In contrast, 67Ga does not always accumulate in adenocarcinomas. 201Tl SPECT and 67Ga SPECT are more useful in the functional imaging of cancer than is morphological tumor diagnosis. Both methods are useful in monitoring treatment effectiveness, detecting recurrent lesions after surgery and radiotherapy, and predicting the grade of malignancy of the tumor. Tumor SPECT using 201Tl chloride and/or 67Ga citrate provides clinically useful information not obtained by morphological tumor diagnosis only.
Scintimammography (SMM) in breast cancer patients.	The author retrospectively reviewed the scintimammography (SMM) using 201Tl and/or 99mTc-MIBI in 45 breast cancer patients. 36 cases with 37 intact breast masses and another 9 cases with previous excision of the masses were studied. The sensitivity for the detection of the primary breast cancer was 92 per cent and that of ipsilateral axillary lymph node metastasis was only 48 per cent. SMM is helpful for the diagnosis of breast cancer and differentiating malignant from benign masses, thus improving the accuracy of routine mammography. In postoperative cases SMM is helpful to detect palpable local tumor recurrence and axillary node metastasis but it is not accurate enough for assessing the extent of microscopic tumor involvement locally and also distant metastasis. Thus, it is not recommended to use SMM alone for staging of breast cancer.
Factors associated with failure of medical therapy in patients with unstable angina and non-Q wave myocardial infarction. A TIMI-IIIB database study.	Current management of patients with unstable angina and non-Q wave myocardial infarction generally consists of intensive medical therapy, with angiography and revascularization sometimes limited to those who fail such therapy.
Thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomographic and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic characteristics of intracranial ganglioglioma: three technical case reports.	The correlation between thallium-201 (201TI) uptake, semiquantitative choline-containing compound values measured by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS), and Ki-67 labeling indexes (LIs) was investigated in three gangliogliomas.
The utility and potential cost-effectiveness of stress myocardial perfusion thallium SPECT imaging in hospitalized patients with chest pain and normal or non-diagnostic electrocardiogram.	The evaluation of hospitalized patients with chest pain and non-diagnostic electrocardiogram is problematic and the optimal cost-effective strategy for their management controversial.
Usefulness of 201T1 gammagraphy in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the larynx]	For the evaluation of a patient with a laryngeal tumor we need the clinical exam and other exams as the CT scan or MRI. Those studies have a sensitivity of less than 80%. For that reason in the last years there has been a development of new techniques trying to increase the accuracy. The 201Tl SPECT is one of them although it was developed for cardiological purposes. We present our experience in 46 patients with laryngeal tumor in whom we did a 201Tl SPECT as part of the extension study. The sensitivity of the study was 81.6% in the diagnosis of the primary tumor and 46.1% for the neck adenopathies. The 201Tl SPECT can be a good method for the evaluation and detection of recurrences in patients with pharyngo-laryngeal tumor.
Combined dipyridamole and dobutamine echocardiography in myocardial hibernation: comparison with thallium uptake in patients after percutaneous transluminal coronary revascularization under circulatory support.	To investigate the specificity and sensitivity of the combination of dipyridamole and dobutamine echocardiography for predicting functional recovery in patients with reduced ventricular function after coronary angioplasty.
Diagnostic accuracy of low-dose dobutamine echocardiography in predicting post-revascularisation recovery of function in patients with chronic coronary artery disease: relationship to thallium-201 uptake.	It is known that contractile reserve may be blunted if perfusion and coronary flow reserve are reduced. Thus, it is conceivable that the predictive accuracy of dobutamine echocardiography may differ according to perfusion tracer uptake. The aim of this study was therefore to assess the relationship between the level of thallium-201 uptake and the accuracy of dobutamine echocardiography in identifying reversible dysfunction. Sixty-nine patients (age 59+/-8 years, ejection fraction 40%+/-11%) with chronic coronary artery disease scheduled for coronary revascularisation were studied. All patients underwent rest 201Tl single-photon emission tomography and two-dimensional echocardiography at rest and during low-dose dobutamine infusion on the same day before revascularisation and repeated echocardiography at least 30 days thereafter. At follow-up, recovery of function was observed in 49% of 339 dysfunctional segments. The percentage of segments with post-revascularisation recovery of function and the percentage with contractile reserve increased in parallel with 201Tl uptake both in the total group of segments (chi2=35.5, P<0.0001 and chi2=35.9, P<0.0001, respectively) and among the 183 akinetic segments (chi2=44.4, P<0.0001 and chi2=14.6, P<0.05, respectively). The dysfunctional segments were divided into three groups according to 201Tl uptake: (a) uptake <65%, (b) uptake between 65% and 79%, (c) uptake >80%. The positive predictive value increased significantly with the level of 201Tl uptake, and was suboptimal (46%) in akinetic segments with severely reduced 201Tl uptake. The negative predictive value decreased significantly with 201Tl uptake, and it was less than suboptimal (29%) in akinetic segments with normal tracer uptake. Sensitivity was lower in the subset of akinetic segments (42%-63%) than in all dyssynergic segments (63%-76%), whereas specificity was very high in akinetic segments (80%-84%). It is concluded that the accuracy of low-dose dobutamine echocardiography in predicting reversibility of regional dysfunction varies considerably according to 201Tl uptake at rest and to the severity of regional dysfunction.
Use of dobutamine stress echocardiography in detecting silent myocardial ischaemia in asymptomatic diabetic patients: a comparison with thallium scintigraphy and exercise testing.	Silent myocardial ischaemia is frequent in diabetic patients. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (201Tl SPECT) coupled with exercise stress testing (EST), and dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in the detection of asymptomatic coronary artery disease.
Low dose dobutamine echocardiography for predicting functional recovery after coronary revascularisation.	To evaluate the effects of chronic coronary occlusion on the accuracy of low dose dobutamine echocardiography in predicting recovery of dysfunctional myocardium after revascularisation.
Bone and Tl-201 scintigraphy in a case of hereditary multiple exostoses.	A 17-year-old girl with hereditary multiple exostoses, who was thought to have malignant transformation of an exostotic lesion, was examined by bone and Tl-201 chloride scintigraphy. Scintigraphy showed markedly intense uptake by the lesion, whereas Tl-201 imaging did not. Bone scintigraphy revealed intense to moderate uptake in other exostotic lesions, but none was apparent on the Tl-201 study. The lesion was resected and the histopathologic diagnosis was osteochondroma. Negative findings of Tl-201 scintigraphy may not exclude the possibility of chondrosarcoma, and the utility of this method may be limited. However, Tl-201 scintigraphy appears to have a useful role in differentiating malignant transformation from benign osteochondroma in hereditary multiple exostoses.
Value of linsidomin in assessing myocardial viability with thallium-201 SPECT.	Myocardial viability can be assessed with rest/24 h redistribution (201)Tl myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The intravenous injection of vasodilators induces an early redistribution of (201)Tl and shortens the total examination time. The aim of this study was to compare the images after injection of linsidomin with the 24 h images. We studied 51 consecutive patients (38 males, 13 females), aged 66+/-11 years, referred for assessment of myocardial viability after acute myocardial infarction. SPECT acquisition at rest (30 projections over 180 degrees, 30 s per projection) was performed 20 min after injection of (201)Tl. A second acquisition (same parameters) was performed 2 min after intravenous injection of linsidomin (2 mg). A delayed acquisition was performed on the following day (50 s per step). Myocardial perfusion at rest was normal in 111 of 255 segments. For the 144 other segments, 24 h images were similar to the images acquired after the injection of linsidomin in 94% of cases (136 of 144 segments). The 24 h images showed partial redistribution that was not present after linsidomin in only eight segments (6%). Injection of linsidomin after rest acquisition can provide a reliable and more rapid assessment of myocardial viability. This very simple protocol (rest/linsidomin (201)Tl myocardial SPECT) can be performed in less than 1 h.
The use of dual phase 201Tl thyroid scan for equivocal fine-needle aspiration results in cold thyroid nodules.	We assessed the usefulness of dual phase 201Tl thyroid scan for equivocal fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy results to differentiate malignant from benign lesions. The findings of the dual phase 201TI thyroid scan were compared with those of surgical histopathology for 27 patients with cold thyroid nodules. The FNA results were assessed and classified by experienced pathologists equivocal ENS results. Dual phase thyroid scan, including an early image and a delayed image, were acquired 10 minutes and 3 hours, respectively after mCi (74 MBq) of 201TI was injected intravenously. Dual phase 201Tl thyroid scan findings were visually interpreted as positive or negative results. Based on the final diagnoses of the surgical histopathology results, the dual phase Tl thyroid scan showed a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 100%, 90%, and 96%, respectively. We concluded that dual phase Tl thyroid scan was very helpful in differentiating between benign and malignant thyroid nodules when FNA results were equivocal.
Indium-111-Octreotide scintigraphy in differentiated thyroid carcinoma metastases that do not respond to treatment with high-dose I-131.	Differentiated thyroid cancer is characterized by a very good prognosis in the majority of the patients. The therapy of choice is surgery followed by ablation with Iodine-131 (I-131). However, some patients have metastases that have lost the capability of concentrating I-131, even when it is given in therapeutic doses. In the present study, we describe the value of Indium-111 Octreotide (Octreoscan) in differentiated thyroid cancer patients with increased Tg levels who failed to demonstrate a response to treatment with high-dose I-131.
Comparison of the short-term survival benefit associated with revascularization compared with medical therapy in patients with no prior coronary artery disease undergoing stress myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography.	The relationship between the amount of inducible ischemia present on stress myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (myocardial perfusion stress [MPS]) and the presence of a short-term survival benefit with early revascularization versus medical therapy is not clearly defined.
Prognostic impact of hemodynamic response to adenosine in patients older than age 55 years undergoing vasodilator stress myocardial perfusion study.	The prognostic importance of various hemodynamic responses to adenosine infusion in patients undergoing adenosine stress myocardial perfusion stress (MPS) has not been defined.
Abdominal aortic aneurysms and concomitant coronary artery disease. Is routine dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy still justified?	There is a high prevalence of coronary artery disease in patients with peripheral vascular disease (PVD). Following elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair the commonest cause for perioperative death is cardiac-related. Patients at high risk of developing perioperative adverse cardiac events can be identified. Means of identification include clinical history and examination with or without the calculation of a scoring index, stress testing and measurement of ejection fractions. The use of dipyridamole thallium scanning (DTS) in patients with PVD results in about 1/3 of patients having normal scans, 1/3 showing reversible and 1/3 fixed defects. It has been generally accepted that fixed defects represent a completed myocardial infarction and patients are at no greater risk of developing perioperative cardiac complications than those patients with normal scans. However, delayed scans show that some of these "fixed" defects are in fact reversible. Evidence of a redistribution defect implies myocardial ischaemia. The debate centres on whether identification of such defects and their correction will improve perioperative mortality following AAA repair. There is no evidence that identification and correcting coronary artery disease in asymptomatic patients results either in improved operative mortality or long-term survival. "Routine" use of DTS or any other means of cardiac investigation cannot be justified. Patients who clinically fall into a "high risk" category perhaps should be investigated but a case could be made for simply optimising their medical treatment and not carrying out either coronary revascularisation or aneurysm repair.
Preoperative thallium scanning, selective coronary revascularization, and long-term survival after major vascular surgery.	Ischemia on thallium scanning is a strong predictor of long-term mortality in CAD patients. Whether coronary revascularization (CR) in patients with significant ischemia on preoperative thallium scanning (PTS) improves long-term survival after major vascular surgery has not been determined.
Abnormalities of myocardial perfusion in sickle cell disease in childhood: a study of myocardial scintigraphy]	Ischaemic complications are common in SS homozygotic sickle cell disease in children, but the heart does not appear to be the target organ. The early detection of myocardial ischaemic in these children could prevent cardiac complications. The authors undertook a study of myocardial perfusion by myocardial scintigraphy in children with sickle cell disease. Twenty-three patients (average age 12 +/- 5 years) underwent Thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy. Exercise on a bicycle ergometer and/or intravenous injection of dipyridamole were carried out depending on the age. The images (on exercise and late recovery period) were analysed in the 3 standard projections of the left ventricle: short axis, long axis and 4-chamber view. The left ventricular ejection fraction was measured by gamma angiography. Myocardial perfusion was abnormal in 14 patients (61%). The perfusion defects were reversible in the late recovery period in 9 patients and irreversible in 5 patients. The average left ventricular ejection fraction was 63 +/- 9%. Its value was not related to symptoms, haemoglobin level or the results of myocardial scintigraphy. Four patients with perfusion defects were symptomatic (cardiac failure, angina or ventricular tachycardia); 1 patient died and 3 were treated with hydroxyurea. Myocardial scintigraphy was carried out 6 months later and showed improved perfusion in 3 patients. Abnormalities of myocardial perfusion are therefore common in sickle cell disease. Often asymptomatic in childhood, there is a real risk of ischaemic cardiomyopathy and its complications in adulthood. Specific treatment of sickle cell disease with hydroxyurea should be considered in cases with significant abnormalities of myocardial perfusion.
Preoperative comparison of different noninvasive strategies for predicting improvement in left ventricular function after coronary artery bypass grafting.	Thallium-201 (Tl-201) imaging and dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) are the most frequently used tests in the clinical setting for assessing viability. However, Tl-201 has a suboptimal specificity and DSE a suboptimal sensitivity to predict functional improvement after revascularization. F18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) imaging is considered highly accurate, but availability is limited. Sequential imaging of Tl-201 and DSE may improve accuracy for assessing viability and may be comparable to FDG. Forty-seven patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy underwent Tl-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) at rest (4-hour delayed imaging), DSE, and FDG SPECT before bypass surgery. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 2 sequential strategies were compared with those of FDG SPECT. Strategy 1 considered Tl-201 imaging as the first step, followed by DSE in patients with an intermediate likelihood of viability on Tl-201. Strategy 2 considered DSE as the first step, followed by Tl-201 imaging. Left ventricular ejection fraction was assessed before and 6 months after revascularization, and improvement of >/=5% was considered significant. Tl-201 had a high sensitivity (95%, p <0.05 vs DSE) with a low specificity (57%, p <0.05 vs DSE). DSE had a low sensitivity (63%, p <0.05 vs Tl-201) with a high specificity (89%, p <0.05 vs Tl-201). Both strategies 1 and 2 resulted in high sensitivities (89% and 89%, respectively) and high specificities (89% and 86%, respectively), compared with FDG SPECT (sensitivity 89%, specificity 86%). Sequential testing by Tl-201 SPECT and DSE has a comparable accuracy to FDG SPECT to predict improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction after revascularization. In centers without access to FDG, sequential imaging with Tl-201 and DSE offers an accurate alternative for assessing myocardial viability.
Improved myocardial performance during repetitive exercise testing: the role of extracellular superoxide dismutase activity in a model of exercise-induced myocardial preconditioning.	The aim of this study was to investigate whether endogenous antioxidant defense is involved in adaptation to myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease and severe exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.
Physiologic assessment of left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis by quantitative intravenous myocardial contrast echocardiography in humans: comparison with exercise single-photon emission computed tomography.	To clarify the potential of quantitative intravenous myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) for physiologic assessment of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) stenosis.
Parathyroid imaging. Use of dual isotope scintigraphy for the localization of adenomas before surgery.	Seventy-nine patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, whose average preoperative blood calcium level was 11.6 mg/dl, underwent thallium-technetium dual isotope scintigraphy of the thyroid and parathyroids. For patients who had surgery, the detection and localization rate of parathyroid disease or the sensitivity was low (0.53), but the positive predictive value for the location was high (0.80). Correct localization correlated positively with the weight of the tumor but not significantly with the parathyroid hormone blood level nor with the blood calcium level. Unprocessed data alone were sufficient to predict correctly the location in two thirds of the detected cases. Computer processing increased the sensitivity without decreasing the specificity. Those results, at variance with earlier published data but congruent with another more recent study, require a reevaluation of the role of this scintigraphic technique in the management of hyperparathyroidal patients.
Image fusion of thallium-201 SPECT and MR imaging for the assessment of recurrent head and neck tumors following flap reconstructive surgery.	The aim of this study was to assess the value of fused MR and Tl-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images in the diagnosis of recurrent head and neck tumors in patients after flap reconstruction surgery. Twenty-four patients after resection of primary head and neck tumors with flap reconstruction were suspected of having recurrent tumor by follow-up MR examination. Both MR examination and Tl-201 SPECT were prospectively performed to produce fused images. For qualitative analysis, two independent readers separately evaluated the existence of tumor recurrence in the fused images. The Tl-201 uptake of the lesion (Tl index) was also quantitatively compared with that of the normal nuchal muscles. Eighteen patients were histologically proved as having recurrence. The remaining 6 patients, false positive on MRI alone, had non-recurrence. Using the fused images, false positive was found in 1 case for one reader and 2 cases for the other reader. The Tl index of recurrent tumors was significantly higher (p < 0.001) than that of non-recurrent mass lesions. In the assessment of recurrent tumors following flap reconstruction surgery in the head and neck, the use of fused MRI and Tl-201 SPECT images can reduce the number of false positives.
Impact of scar thickness on the assessment of viability using dobutamine echocardiography and thallium single-photon emission computed tomography: a comparison with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging.	We sought to determine whether the transmural extent of scar (TES) explains discordances between dobutamine echocardiography (DbE) and thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (Tl-SPECT) in the detection of viable myocardium (VM).
New noninvasive diagnosis of myocardial ischemia of the left circumflex coronary artery using coronary flow reserve measurement by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography: comparison with thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography.	The usefulness of coronary flow reserve measurement in the left circumflex coronary artery by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography to detect myocardial ischemia was compared with exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
Relationship of myocardial perfusion imaging findings to outcome of patients with heart failure and suspected ischemic heart disease.	We retrospectively identified heart failure patients with suspected ischemic heart disease who underwent myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) to examine the relationship of MPI findings to subsequent patient outcomes.
Acute myocardial infarction: evaluation with first-pass enhancement and delayed enhancement MR imaging compared with 201Tl SPECT imaging.	To evaluate acute myocardial infarction by using first-pass enhancement (FPE) and delayed enhancement (DE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging compared with thallium 201 ((201)Tl) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
Reduced value of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography in the management of HIV-related focal brain lesions in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy.	To evaluate the diagnostic value of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (201Tl SPECT) in the management of focal brain disorders in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), a validation study of diagnostic procedure was performed in a tertiary clinical care center in Italy. Thirty-eight consecutive HIV-infected patients with neurological impairment and focal brain lesions (FBL) were enrolled in a prospective evaluation and underwent diagnostic procedures according to a standardized protocol based on modified previously released guidelines. Six out of seven PCNSL presented high uptake at 201Tl SPECT [sensitivity 86% (95% CI 42-99); specificity 77% (95% CI 58-90); positive predictive value (PPV) 46% (95% CI 20-74); negative predictive value (NPV) 96% (95% CI 78-100)]. Among toxoplasmic encephalitis (TE) cases 14 showed no uptake and 5 showed an increased uptake [sensitivity 74% (95% CI 49-90); specificity 42% (95% CI 21-66); PPV 56% (95% CI 35-75); NPV 61% (95% CI 32-85)]. Patients taking HAART were more likely to display an increased uptake of 201Tl in the cerebral lesions than patients without HAART (OR 5.07; 95% CI 1.19-21.5). Considering only the patients with diagnosis of TE, 60% of patients who showed high radionuclide uptake were taking HAART, while 79% of patients without relevant uptake were not taking HAART. As a result of the impact of HAART, the diagnostic value of 201Tl SPECT in the management of HIV-associated FBL could be substantially reduced. This observation suggests that in HAART-treated patients, this diagnostic tool be used only when combined with other more specific diagnostic markers.
Evaluation of myocardial disorders in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and left ventricular eccentric hypertrophy--by 201Tl myocardial SPECT]	201Tl myocardial SPECT was performed in cases of dilated cardiomyopathy and valvular heart disease with left ventricular eccentric hypertrophy, and the two groups were compared from the standpoint of the mechanism of onset of myocardial disorders. Significant coefficients of correlation were seen between the Tl score and LVDd (r = 0.792, r = 0.785) and Tl score and LVEF (r = -0.634, r = -0.555) in both dilated cardiomyopathy and valvular heart disease. In cases of valvular heart disease, significant correlation coefficients (r = -0.756, r = -0.720) between LVDd and r-WR (relative-washout rate), and Tl score and r-WR were observed, but no such correlation was seen in dilated cardiomyopathy. In valvular heart disease, a decrease in myocardial perfusion associated with enlargement of the left ventricle appeared, while in dilated cardiomyopathy, there was a marked decrease in LVEF in proportion to the thallium defect. Therefore, it was assumed that left ventricular wall disorders occur due to myocardial metabolic disorders and coronary microcirculation disorders.
Quantitative assessment of the infarct size with the unfolded map method of 201Tl myocardial SPECT in patient with acute myocardial infarction]	The unfolded map method of 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was evaluated as to the ability to quantify and the clinical reliability in estimation of infarct size. At first, the following results were obtained in basic experiments using thoracic phantom: 1) the defect area estimated by the unfolded map method was well correlated with the real defect area in spite of overestimation of the defect area, when the defect area was determined by an isocount method (below 80% of maximum count) (y = 1.941 + 2.29x, r = 0.971, p less than 0.001); 2) the defect volume estimated by short-axis images of 201Tl SPECT was closely correlated with real defect volume in spite of overestimation of defect volume (y = 0.762 + 2.156x, r = 0.982, p less than 0.001); 3) when the defect area was estimated by division of the defect volume by the mean myocardial compartment thickness, it was closely correlated with real defect area (y = 0.946 + 1.232x, r = 0.990, p less than 0.001); 4) when the volume was calculated from the summation of voxels in the regions districted by isocount threshold level at each section of the 99mTc SPECT, the optimal isocount threshold level (percentage to maximum count) was 55%. In addition, the clinical reliability of the unfolded map method as infarct sizing was evaluated in 26 patients with acute myocardial infarction by comparing it with enzymatic method, Bull's eye method, and 99mTc pyrophosphate (PYP) SPECT method. In 14 first attack cases of patient without right ventricular infarction, infarct area (IA) of the unfolded map method correlated most closely with the accumulated creatine kinase MB isoenzyme release (CK-MBr) (r = 0.897), compared with the extent score (ES) (r = 0.853) and the severity score (SS) (r = 0.871) of Bull's eye method and the infarct volume (IV) (r = 0.595) of 99mTc PYP SPECT. In conclusion, although the unfolded map method of 201Tl SPECT has the tendency which overestimate infarct size, it is accurate and clinically reliable method in estimating infarct size.
99mTc-Cardiolite and Tl-201 in the evaluation of myocardial blood flow. Comparison of their diagnostic usefulness]	The aim of this study was to compare regional perfusion of myocardium measured with Tl-201 and Tc-99m CARDIOLITE in 35 patients with coronary artery disease. All the patients were examined three times. Investigations with Tc-99m CARDIOLITE at stress and rest were performed after twice done injection of dose. Tl-201 was given within 7 days from investigations with Tc-99m CARDIOLITE. All the patients were stress tested according to Bruce's protocol. The radiopharmaceutic was injected at maximal ergometric stress level and then stress was continued for at least one minute. The results of regional perfusion scintigraphy--separately with Tl-201 and Tc-99m CARDIOLITE--were compared in 19 patients with contrast coronarography. Similar sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were obtained for both tracers, 67%, 80%, 71% respectively for Tl-201 and 69%, 86%, 73% for Tc-99m CARDIOLITE. Entire accuracy was obtained in 80% comparisons in segment to segment correlation. Tc-99m CARDIOLITE showed smaller perfusion defect in 9% comparisons and greater in 11%. This findings suggest that both tracers can be used interchangeably.
Comparison between thallium-201, technetium-99m-sestamibi and technetium-99m-teboroxime planar myocardial perfusion imaging in detection of coronary artery disease.	Technetium-99m-sestamibi (MIBI) and 99mTc-teboroxime (TEBO) are two new myocardial perfusion imaging agents. The purpose of this prospective study was to compare MIBI and TEBO to 201TI planar imaging. Eighteen patients with significant coronary artery disease on coronary angiogram were submitted to three treadmill stress tests performed within 3 mo and were imaged with the three radiopharmaceuticals as follows. 1. TI: 2.2 mCi, immediate and delayed views (4 hr later, 8 min/view). 2. TEBO: 15-20 mCi at stress (1 min/view) and a second injection was repeated 4 hr later at rest (20-25 mCi). 3. MIBI: 15-18 mCi at stress (8 min/view) and 1-4 days later, 15-18 mCi at rest. Patients achieved similar levels of exercise. A blinded reading was performed by three observers. The left ventricle was divided into three segments/view and ischemic/normal wall ratios were also determined. Segmental comparison showed an agreement in 85% (138/162) of the segments between TI and TEBO, in 92% (149/162) between TI and MIBI and in 84% (136/162) between MIBI and TEBO. Abnormal TI, MIBI and TEBO studies were seen in 16 (89%), 16 (89%) and 15 (83%) patients, respectively, detecting 77, 75 and 65 abnormal segments. Ischemic-to-normal wall ratios were 0.75 +/- 0.06, 0.73 +/- 0.08 and 0.78 +/- 0.08 for TI, MIBI and TEBO, respectively. In conclusion, although the biologic characteristics of these agents are different, this study showed a good correlation between them in detection of significant coronary artery disease (high pretest likelihood population).
Reduced glomerular filtration rate in asymptomatic diabetic patients: predictor of increased risk for cardiac events independent of albuminuria.	This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of a reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with and without albuminuria and its ability to predict cardiac events in asymptomatic diabetic patients undergoing stress-rest thallium-201 myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography.
Integration of automatically measured transient ischemic dilation ratio into interpretation of adenosine stress myocardial perfusion SPECT for detection of severe and extensive CAD.	The aim of our study was to derive and to validate the normal threshold for an automatically measured left ventricular transient ischemic dilation (TID) ratio in patients referred for adenosine stress myocardial perfusion SPECT (MPS) and to assess the value of integrating TID in detecting severe and extensive coronary artery disease (CAD).
Incremental prognostic value of exercise single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) thallium 201 imaging in patients with ST-T abnormalities on their resting electrocardiograms.	The incremental prognostic value of thallium 201 imaging in patients with nonspecific ST-T abnormalities on the resting electrocardiogram (ECG) may be different from those with a normal resting ECG.
Cardiovascular disease in male patients with carotid transient ischemic attacks or minor strokes.	The authors tested the hypothesis that coronary heart disease and lower extremity atherosclerosis occur more frequently in patients with transient ischemic attacks (TIA) than in patients with minor stroke. Thirty-three consecutive male patients with TIA and 36 with minor stroke from the carotid artery territory were examined with ultrasonography of the cardiac, iliac, and femoral arteries; echocardiography (UCG); electrocardiogram (ECG); thallium scintigraphy (TS) of the myocardium; and assessment of the ankle/arm index (A/AI). TS showed myocardial infarctions to be more common among TIA patients than among minor stroke patients, 54% vs 19%, p = 0.019. UCG showed the frequency of left ventricular and atrial dilatation to be higher in the TIA group than in the minor stroke group, 64% vs 27%, p = 0.0084. Significant artery stenosis (greater than or equal to 50%) was not, however, more frequent in the TIA group than in the minor stroke group, nor was there any significant difference between the groups in A/AI. The frequency of TS-verified myocardial infarction (MI) was higher in the subgroup with greater than or equal to 50% carotid artery stenosis than in that with less than 50% stenosis, 61% vs 25%, p = 0.022, and also higher in the pathological UCG subgroup than in the normal UCG subgroup, 50% vs 15%, p = 0.025. Thus, there was a greater incidence both of TS-verified MI and of UCG-verified cardiac dilatation in the TIA group than in the minor stroke group but no difference between the groups in the degree of atherosclerosis either in the carotid or lower extremity regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Profuse diaphoresis as the presenting symptom of myocardial ischemia with normal appearance of coronary arteriogram--a case report.	The authors present a case of a patient suffering from profuse diaphoresis as the sole manifestation of myocardial ischemia (syndrome x or coronary vasospasm). The diagnosis was established by positive exercise thallium 201 imaging and normal-appearing coronary arteriogram.
Regional metabolic abnormality in relation to perfusion and wall motion in patients with myocardial infarction: assessment with emission tomography using an iodinated branched fatty acid analog.	The clinical usefulness of single-photon tomography using both a beta-methyl-branched fatty acid analog, 123I-15-(p-iodophenyl)-3-methyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) and 201TI was assessed in 4 normal subjects and 28 patients with myocardial infarction. A homogeneous distribution of the tracer in the left ventricular myocardium was observed in each normal subject. BMIPP uptake was decreased compared to 201TI (discordant) in 17/28 patients (61%) and in 49/196 myocardial segments (25%). Such discordant BMIPP uptake was observed more often in areas of acute myocardial infarction (59% at less than or equal to 4 wk versus 31% at greater than 4 wk after onset) (p less than 0.01) and areas supplied with revascularized arteries (74% for revascularized versus 28% for nonrevascularized areas) (p less than 0.01). In addition, the discordant BMIPP uptake was seen more often in the segments exhibiting a wall motion score lower than the perfusion score (46%) in comparison to segments showing a similar decrease in both the wall motion and perfusion scores (12%) (p less than 0.01). Thus, BMIPP imaging may play a major role in increasing our understanding of the relationship between perfusion and wall motion, particularly in patients with acute myocardial infarction and those who received revascularization therapy.
Disposition of oral dipyridamole in patients undergoing thallium 201 myocardial imaging.	Oral dipyridamole has been used in conjunction with thallium 201 imaging to diagnose coronary artery disease in patients unable to exercise. However, the pharmacokinetic disposition of high-dose dipyridamole, particularly the time to maximum drug concentration, has not been described in patients undergoing oral dipyridamole-thallium 201 scanning. Therefore, we measured serial concentrations in 20 outpatients undergoing thallium 201 testing after a single 400-mg oral dose of dipyridamole. In patients with positive thallium scans (group A), concentrations were slightly higher than in those with negative scans (group B). The variability in concentrations for both groups ranged from 3-118%. The area under the dipyridamole concentration-time curve from 0-4 hours ranged from 2.9-2.3 microgram.hr/ml. The time to peak plasma level for dipyridamole ranged from 0.5-2.5 hours, with two patients having undetectable levels at the time of thallium 201 injection. Dipyridamole concentrations did not correlate with changes in diastolic or systolic blood pressure, or heart rate. Although it is unknown what concentration is required to produce changes in coronary flow velocity, use of oral dipyridamole in this setting resulted in highly variable concentrations. In addition, these data suggest that a small percentage of patients will not have detectable concentrations at the time of the first thallium 201 scan, possibly limiting the usefulness of this agent in conjunction with thallium scintigraphy in some patients.
Evaluation of patients with chest pain and nondiagnostic ECG using thallium-201 myocardial planar imaging and technetium-99m first-pass radionuclide angiography in the emergency department.	The purpose of this study was to determine if thallium-201 myocardial planar imaging and technetium-99m first-pass radionuclide angiography, performed in the emergency department, could predict which patients with acute chest pain and nondiagnostic ECGs were more likely to have an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Higher Gensini score of coronary arteries in acute inferior myocardial infarction with precordial ST-segment depression.	To investigate the significance of precordial ST-segment depression in acute inferior myocardial infarction, we compared the Gensini score of coronary artery stenosis between 2 groups of patients with and without precordial ST-segment depression. Group I consisted of 28 patients who showed ST-segment depression on admission (greater than or equal to 1 mm in V2-V6) and Group II (n = 16) those without ST-segment depression (less than 1 mm). The Gensini score of the coronary arteries (56 +/- 29 vs. 28 +/- 18; p less than 0.001), the partial score of the infarction-related artery (29 +/- 16 vs. 17 +/- 11; p less than 0.01) and of the infarction-nonrelated artery (27 +/- 24 vs. 11 +/- 12; p less than 0.02) were significantly higher in Group I than in Group II. The Killip score (greater than or equal to II) (34% vs. 6%; p less than 0.05), frequency of arrhythmias (75% vs. 38%; p less than 0.02) and peak CK value (3,676 +/- 2,290 vs. 1,818 +/- 1,153 IU/L; p less than 0.005) were higher in Group I than in Group II. Four patients in Group I died following admission, while no patient died in Group II (N.S.). Autopsy findings from the 4 Group I patients revealed fresh extensive inferior infarction and healed diffuse subendocardial infarction which could not be predicted from electrocardiograms. All patients who survived the acute stage performed treadmill exercise testing and 22 patients underwent exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT). On treadmill exercise test, there was no significant difference between the 2 groups in the frequency of angina pectoris and ST-segment depression. On SPECT, the perfusion defect area under 55% of maximum uptake at the redistribution phase was 45.8 +/- 19.6 cm2 in Group I (n = 14) and 34.7 +/- 21.3 cm2 in Group II (n = 8; N.S.). In conclusion, precordial ST-segment depression in acute inferior myocardial infarction suggested advanced atherosclerosis in both the infarction-related and nonrelated coronary arteries, indicating a larger infarct size.
Effect of exercise level on the diagnostic accuracy of thallium-201 SPECT scintigraphy.	The sensitivity of electrocardiographic ST analysis for detecting coronary artery disease is markedly decreased in patients unable to exercise vigorously. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of Thallium-201 SPECT scintigraphy at various exercise levels, we evaluated 179 patients without evidence of prior myocardial infarction or other confounding factors who performed symptom-limited exercise with Thallium-201 SPECT scintigraphy. Sensitivity decreased from 89% in those patients achieving greater than or equal to 85% of maximal heart rate to 63% in those achieving less than 65%. Like ST segment analysis, Thallium 201 SPECT scintigraphy has decreased diagnostic yield at low levels of exertion.
Limits of thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy to detect coronary disease in patients with complete and permanent bundle branch block: a review of 134 cases.	We reviewed the records of 68 patients with right bundle branch block (RBBB) and 66 patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB), who had undergone thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy and coronary arteriography, to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of thallium-201 imaging for the detection of coronary artery disease in the presence of intraventricular conduction abnormalities. In patients with RBBB the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values were, respectively, 83%, 89%, 79%, and 92% for the anteroseptal region and 83%, 84%, 83%, and 84% for the inferoposterior region. In patients with LBBB these values were, respectively, 94%, 33%, 36%, and 93% for the anteroseptal region and 77%, 90%, 81%, and 88% for the inferoposterior region. In this second group defects limited to the septal region were a good predictor of false positive scintigrams (9/10 cases), but if apical defects used as the sole criterion for detecting lesions in the left anterior descending artery improved the specificity to 85%, the sensitivity was greatly reduced (35%). We conclude that exercise scintigraphy is a reliable method for detection of coronary lesions in patients with RBBB and in patients with LBBB and inferoposterior perfusion defects, but it is unable to discriminate between normal subjects and patients with coronary disease in the presence of LBBB and anteroseptal perfusion defects. In addition, limited septal defects are highly suggestive of false positive scintigrams in this latter group of patients.
Usefulness of single-photon emission computed tomography of thallium-201 uptake after dipyridamole infusion for detection of coronary artery disease.	The diagnostic performance of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and planar imaging of thallium-201 uptake for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) was compared in 79 patients who underwent both dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy and coronary angiography. Clinical subgroups were assigned by severity of CAD, presence of a prior myocardial infarction and the number of narrowed coronary arteries. The overall detection of CAD was 89% for SPECT and 67% for planar (p less than 0.001). For the anterior vascular territory, sensitivities for SPECT and planar imaging were 69 and 44% (p less than 0.01), respectively; for the posterior vascular territory, sensitivities were 80 and 54% (p less than 0.01). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis, using a 5-point evaluation scale, was performed for the anterior and posterior vascular territories. Receiver-operating characteristic curves generated for SPECT and planar studies demonstrated improved diagnostic performance by SPECT in the anterior vascular territory, but showed similar performance in the posterior territory because of lower SPECT specificity despite higher sensitivity at clinically relevant decision thresholds. In each clinical subgroup of patients, the detection of CAD by SPECT was significantly superior to that by planar imaging, regardless of the severity of stenosis or the number of significantly narrowed coronary arteries, or whether a myocardial infarction was present. Thus, SPECT thallium-201 scintigraphy is an important and necessary clinical tool for detecting CAD after dipyridamole infusion.
Frequency and prognostic significance of silent coronary artery disease in patients with cerebral ischemia undergoing carotid endarterectomy.	To evaluate the prevalence and prognostic role of silent coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with symptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis (70 to 99%) undergoing carotid endarterectomy, and with neither history nor symptoms of CAD, 106 patients (76 men, 30 women, mean age 58.7 years [range 42 to 71]) with recent cerebral ischemia were prospectively studied. Patients were stratified as to the presence (n = 27, 25%) or absence (n = 79, 75%) of silent CAD defined by concordant abnormal exercise electrocardiographic testing and thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy. The male sex, the severity of the symptomatic carotid lesion (greater than 90%), and the coexistence of contralateral carotid disease identified patients with higher probability of coexisting CAD. The 106 patients underwent 121 operations (bilateral in 15). In the perioperative period, no deaths or cardiac events occurred, 1 patient suffered a recurrent stroke and 3 had a transient ischemic attack. During a mean follow-up period of 5.4 years, 9 patients died (1.7%/year): fatal myocardial infarction occurred in 5 (all in the silent CAD group), cancer in 3 and vertebrobasilar stroke in 1. Nonfatal events occurred in 9 patients: myocardial infarction in 1 (without silent CAD), unstable angina in 3 (with silent CAD), and cerebral ischemic attacks in 5. After 7 years, the Kaplan-Meier estimated survival free from coronary events was 51% in patients with silent CAD, and 98% in patients without CAD (p less than 0.01). In conclusion, among patients with symptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis undergoing carotid endarterectomy, even in absence of history or symptoms of CAD, a silent CAD is detectable in one fourth of the patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Asymptomatic coronary artery disease in diabetes: associated with autonomic neuropathy?	To elucidate the potential association of diabetic autonomic neuropathy with increased prevalence of silent coronary artery disease (CAD), 138 asymptomatic diabetic subjects were screened using exercise ECG. 24-h ambulatory ECG and dynamic thallium scintigraphy. Fourteen patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischaemia and angiographically confirmed CAD (greater than or equal to 50% coronary artery narrowing) were found using this protocol. Their autonomic nervous function was assessed using standard cardiovascular tests and compared with that of 23 consecutive diabetic patients catheterised because of symptomatic CAD (mean New York Heart Association class 3.0). The diabetic patients with symptomatic CAD had more severe coronary atherosclerosis than the diabetic patients with asymptomatic CAD assessed by jeopardy score (P less than 0.01). The groups did not, however, differ with respect to autonomic function tests. Five patients (22%) with symptomatic CAD and 3 patients (21%) with asymptomatic CAD had definite autonomic dysfunction, i.e. two or more abnormal tests. Thus, our results suggest that the frequency of autonomic neuropathy is not increased in diabetic patients with asymptomatic CAD. The contribution of diabetic autonomic neuropathy to the absence of cardiac pain needs further clinical and pathological studies.
Dipyridamole-thallium-201 scintigraphy in the diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery.	Although most of the published studies using DTS as a preoperative screening test show various shortcomings, the following conclusions can be drawn: 1. DTS should not be used as a routine preoperative test in vascular surgical patients. DTS possesses insufficient accuracy when used in patients without clinical findings suggestive of CAD. 2. DTS may prove more useful in stratifying patients with an intermediate probability of developing cardiac complications. In such a population the test will not offer an "all or nothing" linear results, but rather, when included with the clinical findings and the nature of the surgical procedure, a complex stratification. 3. Because of progress in the perioperative management of high-risk patients, positive findings on preoperative DTS may not correlate perfectly with perioperative cardiac occurrences. 4. Because several factors influence thallium uptake after dipyridamole, DTS does not have perfect specificity, which leads to the prescribing of an excessive number of coronary angiographies. Some patients will be seen as having a false-positive DTS test. 5. The use of DTS as a preoperative screening test leads to cardiac catheterization and hence to revascularization independent of symptomatology. Studies must be undertaken to determine whether this approach will improve short- and long-term patient survival.
Diffuse subendocardial ischemia in a patient with aortic valve stenosis without coronary artery disease by exercise 201Tl SPECT]	A case of aortic valve stenosis without coronary artery disease was confirmed to have diffuse subendocardial ischemia by exercise Thallium-201 myocardial single photon emission computed tomography. A 72-year-old woman, who had been diagnosed as aortic valve stenosis, was admitted because of chest pain during exercise. In cardiac catheterization findings, the patient angiographically had normal coronary arteries and no asynergy of left ventricular wall motion. The peak flow velocity in continuous wave Doppler echocardiography was about 5.0 m/sec at aortic valve level, providing a pressure drop of 100 mmHg across a stenotic valve with calculating on a modified Bernoulli equation (PG = 4V2). Thallium-201 myocardial SPECT images during exercise showed a transient "dilation and a widespread wall thinning" of left ventricle with apical perfusion defect. Simultaneous electrocardiogram showed further ST depression and the patient had chest pain. In 6 months after aortic valve replacement the patient no longer demonstrated both apical perfusion defect and "wall thinning" in postoperative thallium-201 myocardial SPECT images and also had neither ST depression nor chest pain. Thus; a transient "dilation and wall thinning" of left ventricle in this patient is suspected to be a sign of diffuse subendocardial ischemia.
The influence of findings of coronary artery on myocardial salvage in acute myocardial infarction]	201Tl stress myocardial scintigraphy was performed in convalescent patients with acute myocardial infarction, to evaluate the influence of stenosis and collateral circulation of coronary artery in acute phase, on myocardial salvage in chronic phase. In 14 cases of unsuccessful coronary revascularization (complete occlusion), a complete defect of thallium imaging in chronic phase was seen in only one case of four cases with good collateral circulation, while eight of 10 cases with poor collateral circulation. In 16 cases of poor collateral circulation, six cases showed a complete defect, although the target vessel had improved to less than 75% of stenosis. However, in cases of good collateral circulation, no case showed a complete defect when the target vessel had improved to less than 75% of stenosis. The myocardial salvage is quite possible (p less than 0.05), when the coronary angiography in acute phase showed the forward flow (99% or 90% of stenosis) before coronary revascularization and/or good collateral circulation (Rentrop 2 degrees or 3 degrees).
Noninvasive estimation of site of lesion of left anterior descending artery with stress 201Tl myocardial SPECT images]	Noninvasive estimation of site of lesion of left anterior descending artery (LAD) is important because of high morbidity of LAD lesion. Utility of stress 201Tl myocardial SPECT images for predicting site of LAD lesion characteristics of ischemic region induced by LAD lesion in the basal coronal image were studied in 53 patients with localized significant LAD lesion. Right margin of ischemic region at basal plane of SPECT images was determined by circumferential maximum count profile analysis of stress 201Tl myocardial images. Right margin of ischemic region induced by the just proximal lesion was 21 +/- 11 degrees, that by proximal lesion was -6 +/- 10 degrees and that by mid portion was -36 +/- 17 degrees. Sensitivity of right margin of ischemic region 0 for just proximal lesion was 100% (20/20) and that of right margin of ischemic region 0 for mid portion lesion was 100% (18/18). These results showed the possibility of detecting site of LAD lesion by stress 201Tl myocardial SPECT images.
Diagnostic utility of myocardial imaging using 123I-labeled beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid in ischemic heart disease]	We evaluated the myocardial metabolism in the acute and subacute phases of myocardial infarction or unstable angina using 123I-labeled beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP). We then compared those findings with (1) myocardial perfusion images obtained with 201TlCl and (2) the regional and global left ventricular function determined by left ventriculography. Thirty-one patients were examined, consisting of 16 with acute myocardial infarction (6.8 +/- 2.6 days after onset), 8 with subacute myocardial infarction (35 +/- 3.0 days after onset) and 7 with unstable angina. The BMIPP images showed a larger uptake-defect than 201TlCl images in the patients in the acute or subacute phase of myocardial infarction. This finding was especially remarkable in the acute phase after successful coronary revascularization therapy. Moreover, in such cases, the myocardial BMIPP uptake improved to the same degree as 201TlCl one month later. The decrease in myocardial uptake of BMIPP agreed well with the decrease in regional wall motion in the acute and subacute phases of myocardial infarction. In contrast, the myocardial perfusion of 201TlCl did not always agree with the regional wall motion in stunned or hibernating myocardium, where BMIPP showed an uptake-defect in the acute phase but improved in the subacute phase. Thus, BMIPP is surmised to be able to depict fatty acid metabolism in in vivo myocardial imaging.
Usefulness of 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy after dipyridamole infusion in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease]	To determine the utility for detecting ischemic heart disease (IHD), Dipyridamole thallium myocardial images (DIP-Tl) have been performed in the 103 patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease who can't exercise fully. Of 103 patients, there were 36 patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO), 31 patients with aneurysm of the abdominal aorta (AAA), 24 patients with aneurysm of the thoracic aorta (TAA) and 12 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm (DAA). Clinical evidence of IHD was found in 20 patients with ASO, 10 with AAA, 7 with TAA and 4 with DAA respectively. Positive evidence of DIP-Tl was identified in 66% of 41 patients who had clinical evidence of IHD, and particularly in the patients with AAA (80%) and ASO (65%). On the other hand, in the patients without clinical evidence of IHD, positive evidence of DIP-Tl was identified in 19% of 62 patients and particularly in the patients with AAA (39%). In all patients, the percentage of the positive DIP-Tl ratio was 38%. And, when the 38% patients of the positive DIP-Tl were added to the patients of the negative DIP-Tl who had clinical evidence of IHD, almost half patients (51%) were considered to be complicated with IHD. This study suggests that the atherosclerotic vascular disease is highly complicated with IHD and DIP-Tl is useful to detect IHD.
Usefulness of dipyridamole-thallium scanning for preoperative evaluation of cardiac risk for nonvascular surgery.	The ability to stratify cardiac risk before nonvascular surgery using clinical markers and dipyridamole-thallium scanning (DTS) was assessed for patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease unable to exercise. Of 100 consecutively studied patients who proceeded to nonvascular surgery, 9 (9%) experienced greater than or equal to 1 perioperative cardiac ischemic event, including death in 2 patients (2%) and nonfatal myocardial infarction in 2 (2%). Logistic regression identified 2 clinical predictors (age greater than 70 years and history of heart failure), and 1 DTS (thallium redistribution) predictor of events. Of 45 patients with neither clinical variable, none (0%; 95% confidence intervals [CI] 0 to 8%) had events. Of 55 patients with greater than or equal to 1 clinical marker, 9 (16.4%; 95% CI 7 to 26%) had events. Within this subgroup, 1 of 31 patients (3.2%; 95% CI 0 to 16%) without thallium redistribution had events compared with 8 of 24 (33.3%; 95% CI 14 to 52%) with redistribution. An algorithm combining 5 independent clinical and 2 DTS predictors, derived previously in vascular surgery patients, was validated in the 100 nonvascular surgery patients. It is concluded that preoperative planar DTS is most useful to stratify selected nonvascular surgery patients at intermediate or high risk by clinical assessment. However, for almost half of those patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease, DTS may be unnecessary because of sufficiently low predictive value based on simple clinical descriptors.
Effect of dilantin on myocardial uptake of Tl-201 thallous chloride. A case report.	Dilantin has been reported to decrease myocardial uptake of Tl-201 thallous chloride by as much as 38.8% in rats. To date, no studies have been done in humans to document the effect of dilantin on the myocardial uptake of thallium or its effect clinically on the interpretation of images obtained while on dilantin. The authors report a case in which simultaneous exercise echocardiogram and Tl-201 myocardial scintigraphy and serial Tl-201 myocardial scintigraphy were performed but revealed no adverse effect on image quality or interpretation.
Angina pectoris patients with normal coronary angiograms but abnormal thallium perfusion scan exhibit low myocardial and skeletal muscle energy charge.	Seven patients with angina pectoris and 201-thallium scintigraphy indicative of myocardial perfusion defects, but with normal coronary angiograms, were investigated. Metabolic events were studied in biopsies from myocardium and skeletal muscle (m. quadriceps femoris). Profound metabolic derangement was evidenced by a distinctly lowered energy charge in myocardium (0.88 +/- 0.04 in controls vs. 0.48 +/- 0.09 in patients; P less than 0.001) and skeletal muscle (0.92 +/- 0.01 in controls vs. 0.70 +/- 0.09 in patients; P less than 0.01). Accordingly, low values were recorded for ATP in both types of muscle, where ATP was lower than (myocardium) or the same as (skeletal muscle) ADP. The concentration of myocardial lactate was 115 +/- 74 mumol g-1 dry weight and that of skeletal muscle lactate was 11 +/- 3 mumol g-1 dry weight, compared to normal myocardial lactate of 18 +/- 10 mumol g-1 dry weight and normal skeletal muscle lactate of 11 +/- 3 mumol g-1 dry weight. Unprecedentedly low energy charge levels in both cardiac and skeletal muscle biopsies suggest that a systemic metabolic disease is highly probable. An inverse ATP/ADP ratio found in our patients is indicative of an aetiology different from ischaemia, which would not produce this relationship.
Thallium-201 myocardial imaging in cases involving transposition of the great arteries after arterial switch operation]	Forty patients, including 39 with complete transposition of the great arteries and one with double outlet right ventricle, after arterial switch operation were studied with thallium myocardial imaging (TMI). In patients who had post-operative cardiac catheterization, the TMI findings were compared to those of catheterization studies. The right ventricular to left ventricular up-take ratio (RV/LV ratio) shown by TMI correlated well with the right-to-left ventricular systolic pressure ratio. Supravalvular pulmonic stenosis with significant pressure gradient was found in 14 patients, and all of them were noted to have an elevated RV/LV ratio. This ratio was noted to increase progressively on serial TMI studies in most patients who had significant pulmonic stenosis on first postoperative catheterization. Three patients had significant perfusion defects indicating the presence of myocardial damage. Two of them had occlusion of the coronary artery, but the other one had no coronary abnormalities able to be found by coronary arteriography. Air embolism or some other intra-operative transient insults to the myocardium were most likely to have been responsible for the perfusion defects. Thus, TMI was valuable as one of the noninvasive tools for follow-up of patients after arterial switching, particularly for those with late complications such as supravalvular pulmonic stenosis and coronary problems.
Coronary slow flow phenomenon: description of three cases evaluated with myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.	The coronary slow flow phenomenon (CSFP) is an angiographic finding characterized by delayed opacification of the epicardial coronary arteries in the absence of significant stenosis, spasm, dissection or thrombus. Although this poorly understood phenomenon received little attention, patients with CSFP at coronary angiography often suffer from recurrent episodes of chest pain, sometimes occurring during an acute coronary syndrome. We describe 3 cases of patients with CSFP who complained of recurrent chest pain; in one of them an episode of chest pain was so severe as to bring the patient to the emergency department. Indeed, in all our 3 cases myocardial ischemia was evaluated on the basis of a positive myocardial scintigraphy result. In conclusion, it is suggested that CSFP may be an acute and recurrent perturbation of microvascular function with an often severe impairment of quality of life. Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy might help for an accurate assessment of myocardial ischemia in such patients.
Circulating levels of heart-type fatty acid-binding protein and its relation to thallium-201 perfusion defects in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Myocyte loss and replacement fibrosis have been observed in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) with heart failure. This study was designed to elucidate whether heart-type fatty acid-binding protein (H-FABP), a sensitive biochemical marker for myocardial damage, indicates ongoing myocardial damage in patients with HC. We studied 48 patients with HC and 17 control subjects. Patients with HC were divided into 2 groups according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class: NYHA I + II (n = 40) and NYHA III + IV (n = 8). Serum H-FABP and myoglobin levels were measured, and extent score was used to assess the extent of thallium-201 perfusion defect. Serum H-FABP levels were significantly higher in patients with HC than in control subjects (3.8 +/- 1.6 vs 2.6 +/- 0.7 ng/ml, p = 0.0032). Furthermore, serum H-FABP levels were significantly higher in NYHA III + IV than in NYHA I + II (5.2 +/- 1.3 vs 3.5 +/- 1.5 ng/ml, p = 0.0043). Serum myoglobin levels showed no significant difference among the 3 groups (control, 46.6 +/- 15.0 ng/ml; NYHA I + II, 55.5 +/- 26.4 ng/ml; NYHA III + IV, 65.1 +/- 33.6 ng/ml, p = 0.2115). Extent score correlated positively with serum H-FABP levels (r = 0.420, p = 0.0026) and negatively with fractional shortening (r = -0.542, p <0.0001). Increased H-FABP levels indicate ongoing myocardial damage, which could result in clinical deterioration in patients with HC.
Exercise training and the prevention of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).	To evaluate whether exercise training prevents the restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), treadmill exercise with thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy was performed at first and thirteenth week after PTCA in 18 patients with training and in 20 patients without training. Total treadmill exercise duration and maximal pressure rate product 13 weeks after PTCA increased significantly in the trained group, whereas there was no significant change in the untrained group. ST segment depression from the baseline did not change significantly in both groups. Myocardial perfusion obtained by Tl-201 scintigraphy improved significantly in the trained group, whereas there was no significant change in the untrained group. The restenosis rates at the third month after PTCA was 17% (3/18) in the trained group and 40% (8/20) in the untrained group. It is concluded that in patients with coronary artery disease, exercise training improves myocardial perfusion by preventing the progression of coronary artery stenosis after PTCA.
Clinical evaluation of 3D delayed-enhancement MRI using parallel imaging in the assessment of myocardial viability]	This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of breath-hold three-dimensional (3D)delayed-enhancement MRI using parallel imaging in terms of the effect of parallel imaging on the image quality and visualization of myocardial infarction. Twenty-two patients (17 men and 5 women) with suspected myocardial infarction underwent breath-hold 3D late-enhanced viability examination at least 30 days after occurrence. All patients underwent a Tl-scintigraphy examination. First, 10 patients were examined without applying parallel imaging, then the next 12 patients were studied using parallel imaging. All 3D late-enhanced images at the short axis were acquired 10, 15, and 20 min after an injection of contrast agent, and both the long axis and the four-chamber views were acquired after 15 min. In quantitative analysis, the late-enhanced myocardial images at 10, 15, and 20 min showed higher contrast-to-noise ratios (CNR) in parallel imaging than those with no parallel imaging. During the time-intensity curve of the myocardium, no significant change was observed at 10 or 15 min; however, marked signal reduction was observed at 20 min. In diagnostic evaluation, images obtained with parallel imaging were superior to those without parallel imaging. In general, the application of parallel imaging reduces acquisition time with an expense of reduction in SNR. However, the breath-hold 3D late-enhanced images with parallel imaging showed no apparent SNR reduction. Furthermore, parallel imaging provided clear edge definition between the infarction and the normal region. The reduction of acquisition time with parallel imaging may be less susceptible to fast cardiac motion. In conclusion, breath-hold 3D delayed-enhancement MRI using parallel imaging was highly evaluated in our study and may show promise in clinical application.
Scintigraphic techniques in pre-operative localization of parathyroid adenoma.	Solitary parathyroid adenoma is the most common cause of primary hyperparathyroidism. It can be removed surgically with a 92-96% success rate without any pre-operative imaging procedures. However, imaging procedures may be of help in localization, thereby reducing operative morbidity, and in the detection of ectopic adenomas. The decision to undertake surgical exploration should not be based on these procedures because of their low sensitivity and limited specificity when used alone, but rather on an established biochemical diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism.
Prognostic value of dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging in elderly patients.	The prognostic value of intravenous dipyridamole myocardial perfusion imaging has not been studied in a large series of elderly patients. Patients greater than or equal to 70 years of age with known or suspected coronary artery disease were evaluated to determine the predictive value of intravenous dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging for subsequent cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction. Of the 348 patients, 207 were symptomatic and 141 were asymptomatic; 52% of the asymptomatic group had documented coronary artery disease. During 23 +/- 15 months of follow-up, there were 52 cardiac deaths, 24 nonfatal myocardial infarctions and 42 revascularization procedures (percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 20; coronary artery bypass surgery in 22). Clinical univariate predictors of a cardiac event included previous myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure symptoms, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes (all p less than 0.05). The presence of a fixed, reversible or combined thallium-201 defect was significantly associated with the occurrence of cardiac death or myocardial infarction during follow-up (p less than 0.05). Cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred in only 7 (5%) of 150 patients with a normal dipyridamole thallium-201 study (p less than 0.001). Stepwise logistic regression analysis of clinical and radionuclide variables revealed that an abnormal (reversible or fixed) dipyridamole thallium-201 study was the single best predictor of cardiac events (relative risk 7.2, p less than 0.001). As has been demonstrated in younger patients, previous myocardial infarction (relative risk 1.8, p less than 0.001) and symptoms of congestive heart failure at presentation (relative risk 1.6, p = 0.02) were also significant independent clinical predictors of cardiac death or myocardial infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of atenolol on dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial perfusion tomography in patients with coronary artery disease.	The effect of atenolol on dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial perfusion tomography was evaluated in 12 patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. The patients had dipyridamole 201Tl tomography performed after 7 days treatment with 50 mg atenolol and then repeated after a further 7 days treatment with placebo. The images were interpreted qualitatively by two experienced observers and quantitatively using the Bullseye technique. Qualitative analysis of the images revealed that four of the 12 patients had larger defects on their scans whilst receiving atenolol compared to placebo. The remaining eight patients had defects which were the same size on both treatments. The severity of defects assessed qualitatively was not significantly influenced by atenolol therapy (P = 0.13, McNemera's test). The results obtained with the Bullseye method did not demonstrate significant statistical differences for defect size, degree of reversibility or percentage reversibility whilst the patients were receiving atenolol or placebo (Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test). Atenolol increased the size of perfusion defects on dipyridamole 201Tl tomography qualitatively and quantitatively for four patients in this group of 12 with proven coronary artery disease. Although this did not achieve a high level of statistical significance physicians should be aware that atenolol can influence the images obtained at dipyridamole 201Tl tomography.
The incidence of cardiac events in Japanese men with atypical or nonanginal chest pain: a prospective study on the significance of exercise testing.	The incidence of cardiac events in Japanese men (mean age 54 +/- 10 years) with atypical or nonanginal chest pain was assessed prospectively. Three groups of patients, those with typical angina (TA; n = 134), those with atypical angina (AA; n = 192), and those with nonanginal chest pain (NA; n = 311) were studied with regard to cardiac events (cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction), risk factors, and results of exercise testing. The total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels were significantly different among the three groups, but no differences were observed for other risk factors. The incidences of cardiac events were 8.5%, 2.2%, and 1.3% in the TA, AA, and NA groups, respectively (p less than 0.05) during 3.2 +/- 1.5 years. Significant ST segment changes were observed in 70.1%, 25.5%, and 18.0% of the patients in the TA, AA, and NA groups, respectively, at the time of enrollment. The risk ratio for cardiac events in a positive exercise test was 1.7 (difference not significant) for the TA group and 6.1 (p less than 0.05) for the others combined (AA and NA groups). The risk ratio adjusted for risk factors (Cox model) was 2.2 (difference not significant) for the TA group and 4.9 (p less than 0.05) for the AA and NA groups combined. In conclusion, the incidence of cardiac events in those with AA or NA chest pain was relatively low in Japan, but the independent prognostic significance of positive exercise testing was demonstrated in this group of patients.
Atrioventricular block during adenosine thallium imaging.	Transient atrioventricular (AV) block has been reported during adenosine thallium imaging. This study examined the predictors and hemodynamic implications in 55 patients who had second- or third-degree AV block (group 1) and compared the results with those in 803 patients who did not have AV block (group 2). There were no significant differences in age, sex, or heart rate at baseline between the two groups. ST segment depression was observed in 25% of patients in group 1 and 16% in group 2 (p = NS). Chest pain occurred in 56% in group 1 and 44% in group 2 (p = NS). Preexisting conduction abnormalities (17% vs 16%) and treatment with digitalis (15% vs 15%) and beta-blockers (31% vs 36%) were similar in the two groups. The results of thallium imaging were abnormal in 66% in group 1 and 67% in group 2 (p = NS). Reversible thallium defects were seen in 51% in group 1 and 52% in group 2 (p = NS). The AV block appeared during the first 2 minutes of infusion in 40 patients (73%) and disappeared despite continuation of infusion in 43 (78%). The heart rate during AV block was 79 +/- 18 beats/min, and the systolic blood pressure was 127 +/- 27 mm Hg. Premature termination of adenosine infusion was required in one patient (2%). Aminophylline was used in 5% in group 1 and 2% in group 2 (p = NS). Thus AV block is transient, occurs during the early minutes of infusion, is not aggravated by digitalis or beta-blocker therapy, can be seen in patients with normal perfusion images, and is often well tolerated.
A comparison of maximal exercise and dipyridamole thallium-201 planar gated scintigraphy.	Both symptom-limited maximal exercise and intravenously given dipyridamole stress (0.56 mg/kg over 4 min with a 2 min walk) gated thallium scans were performed in 22 patients undergoing coronary arteriography for the assessment of chest pain. All scans were acquired gated to the electrocardiogram in 3 projections and were reported for the presence and extent of defects in 5 myocardial segments in each view. In addition, left and right ventricular myocardial uptake and estimates of right and left lung and liver to left ventricular uptake were assessed relative to the injected dose of thallium-201. Overall, 190/310 segments were abnormal with exercise compared with 169/310 with dipyridamole. Segments were scored greater in extent in 90/310 cases with exercise, compared with 46/310 in which the defect was more extensive with dipyridamole (P less than 0.0005). Non-attenuation corrected percentage myocardial thallium uptakes were similar for both stresses: anterior percentage uptakes, 0.785% +/- 0.230% with exercise versus 0.870% +/- 0.217% with dipyridamole (NSD). Left and right lung and liver to left ventricle ratios were all significantly higher with dipyridamole than with exercise (1.587 +/- 0.408 versus 1.446 +/- 0.518, P less than 0.02; 1.78 +/- 0.479 versus 1.46 +/- 0.502, P less than 0.002; 2.598 +/- 0.788 versus 1.265 +/- 0.386, P less than 0.001, respectively). High right and left lung uptakes with dipyridamole were strongly correlated with high exercise values (r = 0.756, P less than 0.001; r = 0.809, P less than 0.001). The liver uptake was weakly correlated between the 2 different stress tests (r = 0.483, P less than 0.02).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rest thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in a patient with leukaemic infiltration of the heart.	Despite the high incidence of leukaemic infiltration of the heart, only 8 cases of atrioventricular block due to leukaemia have been reported in the literature. Improvement in the heart block associated with disappearance of the leukaemic infiltrate has not been reported. A rest thallium-201 study was used in a 65-year-old man to demonstrate leukaemic infiltration of the heart which was associated with complete heart block. After chemotherapy, when the tumour burden was reduced and the leukaemia in remission, his heart block resolved, and a follow-up thallium scan was normal.
Dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy predicts perioperative and long-term survival after major vascular surgery.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy to predict perioperative and late cardiac events after peripheral vascular operations. A total of 262 patients had dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy before 87 infrainguinal reconstructions, 108 abdominal aortic aneurysm operations, and 67 aortobifemoral bypass grafts that were placed for occlusive disease. Follow-up extended to 5 years (mean, 31.1 months). Logistic regression analysis selected dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy redistribution as the best predictor of perioperative events. Fixed defects were not predictive. A Cox proportional hazards model for a variety of clinical risk factors and scan parameters identified fixed defects and a history of congestive heart failure as the strongest predictors of late cardiac events. The presence of greater than 1 or 2 fixed segments were the best predictors in patients with an abnormal scan; redistribution did not predict late events. The risk of combined perioperative or late cardiac events was 29% for infrainguinal, 19% for abdominal aortic aneurysm, and 7.5% for aortobifemoral operations. Life-table analysis showed that after a cluster of perioperative events that occurred primarily in patients with dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy redistribution, most of the late cardiac morbidity and deaths occurred in patients with fixed defects.
Mechanism of exercise-induced hypotension in coronary artery disease.	Hypotension during exercise testing has been considered a marker of extensive coronary artery disease (CAD) and poor prognosis. The mechanism of hypotension was examined in 25 CAD patients who developed hypotension during treadmill exercise testing (mean decrease in systolic blood pressure [BP] 33 +/- 13 mm Hg) (group 1) and was compared with the results of 25 CAD patients who had a normal systolic BP response to exercise (mean increase 53 +/- 15 mm Hg) (group 2). The 2 groups were comparable in age, sex, extent of CAD, previous myocardial infarction, left ventricular ejection fraction, history of hypertension and cardiac medications. Exercise heart rate (121 +/- 23 vs 133 +/- 25 beats/min; p = not significant [NS]) and duration (6 +/- 2 vs 7 +/- 3 minutes; p = NS) were comparable. ST-segment depression occurred in 44% of patients in group 1 and in 52% in group 2 (p = NS), and angina during exercise occurred in 60% of both groups. Single-photon emission computed tomographic thallium images were abnormal in 24 patients (96%) in group 1 and in 20 patients (80%) in group 2 (p = NS). Percent thallium abnormality was 19 +/- 12% in group 1, and 18 +/- 14% in group 2 (p = NS), and the severity of thallium abnormality was 710 +/- 510 in group 1, and 510 +/- 500 in group 2 (p = NS). Ischemia involving the inferior/posterior segments was seen in 68% of patients in group 1 and in 60% in group 2 (p = NS). Increased lung thallium uptake was seen in 48% of both groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Preoperative coronary artery disease risk stratification based on dipyridamole imaging and a simple three-step, three-segment model for patients undergoing noncardiac vascular surgery or major general surgery.	A 3-step, 3-segment scintigraphic model was developed to improve the accuracy of dipyridamole-thallium imaging for preoperative cardiac risk assessment and to simplify the prognostic interpretation of the images. The model was developed in a pilot study of 60 patients and validated in a group of 355 patients referred for vascular and major general surgery. Study end points included myocardial infarction and cardiac death. Step 1: The postoperative cardiac event rate was 1.3% in 225 patients with normal anterior, inferio- and posterolateral segment perfusion and without transient left ventricular dipyridamole-induced cavitary dilation. Step 2: The physiologic rationale for step 2 consists of identifying patients who are most likely to have left main, 3-vessel or high-risk 2-vessel coronary artery disease or a significant amount of jeopardized myocardium in the territory of a critical coronary stenosis. Of 29 patients with either reversible defects of all 3 segments, transient cavitary dilation, or at least 1 severe grade 3/3 reversible defect, 52% (15 of 29) sustained a postoperative cardiac event. Step 3: The remaining 101 patients were stratified according to age greater than 70 years (p = 0.01), presence of diabetes (p = 0.0004) and the number of segments displaying reversible defects (1 or 2) with cardiac event rates ranging from 5 to 36%. The 3-step, 3-segment model is a useful alternative to the conventional interpretation of dipyridamole myocardial perfusion images for the purpose of quick and efficient preoperative risk stratification based on the rationale of correlating surgical risk with the amount of potentially ischemic myocardium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Preventive effect of exercise training on recurrent stenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).	The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether exercise training for 12 weeks prevents the development of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Symptom-limited treadmill exercise with thallium-201 myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed one and 13 weeks after PTCA in 18 patients with exercise training and in 20 patients without. For quantitative analysis, the average count of region of interest in the hypoperfused area on the polar map was calculated. A percentage T1 uptake was determined by dividing average count of the hypoperfused area by that of a normal reference area at an initial image (%IU) and a delayed image (%DU). A percentage redistribution (%RD) was obtained by subtracting %IU from %DU as the parameter of residual ischemia in the hypoperfused area. Total treadmill exercise duration and maximal pressure rate product 13 weeks after PTCA increased significantly (p less than 0.01) in the trained group, whereas there was no significant change in the untrained group. %DU increased significantly (p less than 0.01) in the trained group, whereas there was no significant change in the untrained group. %RD decreased significantly (p less than 0.01) in the trained group, whereas there was no significant changes in the untrained group. The restenosis rates at the third month after PTCA was 17% (3/18) in the trained group and 40% (8/20) in the untrained group. These findings suggest that in patients with coronary artery disease exercise training improves myocardial perfusion by preventing the progression of coronary artery stenosis after PTCA.
Myocardial perfusion in patients with left bundle branch block and without coronary artery disease]	For the evaluation of myocardial perfusion in patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB), we performed exercise stress (Ex)-redistribution (RD) myocardial tomography with thallium-201 (201Tl) in 23 patients with LBBB and without coronary artery disease (CAD). Myocardial images in patients with LBBB were compared with those of 9 patients with CAD who showed Ex induced transient septal defect. Bull'-eye maps (201Tl distribution maps at Ex and RD and 201Tl washout rate [WOR] map) were made from myocardial tomograms. In 23 patients with LBBB, 15 patients (65%) developed myocardial perfusion abnormality. In 10 (67%) of these 15 patients, transient perfusion defect appeared in the entire septum (diffuse type). On the other hand in 5 patients (33%), localized fixed perfusion defect developed at the boundary between septum and anterior wall (focal type). In focal type, every patient had other disease such as hypertension, aortic stenosis or sick sinus syndrome. While in patients with diffuse type, other diseases were observed in 30% (p less than 0.05) and they were limited to hypertension or diabetes mellitus. These facts suggested that mechanisms of perfusion abnormalities might be different between these two groups. We compared the perfusion abnormality between LBBB diffuse type and CAD. The extent of the defects was not different between two groups. Although apex was included within the defect in 89% of CAD population, apical defect was observed in only 20% of diffuse type (p less than 0.05). Minimal 201Tl WOR and 201Tl uptake ratio of septum to lateral wall indicated that exercise induced septal defect was slighter in diffuse type than CAD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Myocardial perfusion and clearance of 99mTc teboroxime assessed by SPECT]	99mTc teboroxime is a new myocardial imaging agent that has characteristics of high accumulation in the heart and rapid clearance. We performed tomographic teboroxime study and compared the findings with that of 201Tl. Myocardial teboroxime clearance was calculated by dynamic single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using continuous repetitive rotation acquisition method. Teboroxime SPECT image was reconstructed by the three-minute data started from 4 minutes after injection. In 45 myocardial regions (15 patients), complete agreement between 201Tl and 99mTc teboroxime was obtained in 33 regions (73%), when the findings were classified as normal, ischemia and infarction. Significant delay in clearance was seen in the region of coronary stenosis (greater than or equal to 75%) compared with that in the control region (p = 0.0087 at rest, and p = 0.0385 at peak exercise by paired T test). Septum-to-lateral ratios of the clearance and myocardial initial count showed positive correlation (r = 0.743). Further clinical application of this radiopharmaceutical is expected as a new myocardial imaging agent.
Evaluation of infantile ventricular tachycardia by 201Tl myocardial SPECT]	201Tl myocardial SPECT findings in infantile ventricular tachycardia (VT) were examined. The subjects were 4 cases of infantile VT subjected exercise-loading 201Tl scintigraphy in 1990. These cases (3 males and 1 female) were aged 11-14 years, being persistent and non-persistent type VT (2 cases each). Echocardiography revealed no abnormal findings in these 4 cases. Exercise-loading was performed by means of sitting ergometer. ECG revealed sinus arrhythmia except for one case which throughout its course of treatment, had already been presenting ventricular extrasystole from before the exercise-loading. Myocardial SPECT revealed persistent defects (anteroseptal wall defects in three case). The above suggests that 201Tl myocardial SPECT enables us to search for etiology of VT, prognosis and the like.
Prognostic implications of a negative dipyridamole-thallium scan: results in 360 patients.	A total of 360 patients with either normal perfusion (314) or fixed defects (46) on dipyridamole-thallium scans were followed over an average period of 16 months. Of the 360 patients, 194 subsequently underwent major noncardiac surgery.
Accurate assessment of myocardial viability: complementation of Thallium-201 scintigraphy with a subsequent reinjection study]	Persistent myocardial thallium perfusion defects 3 to 4 hours after stress do not represent irreversible ischemia in every case. In many instances signs of reversibility show up 8-72 hours later or after rest reinjection. Authors performed additional investigations of redistribution in 64 patients with persistent defects. Rest reinjection was given to 11 patients and delayed redistribution was followed in the others. Persistent perfusion defects improved or disappeared in 13 percent of myocardial segments and 38 percent of patients. In 18% of segments late reverse redistribution was observed. The assessment of patients' state was significantly influenced by the results of the additional investigations in 19% of cases. Authors suggest that important information can be obtained about the viability of the myocardium by the extended studies even with the common planar method.
State of hemodynamics, function and perfusion of the myocardium in patients with arterial hypertension with different degree of left ventricular hypertrophy]	Seventy eight patients with arterial hypertension were examined by echo-, radiocardiography and scintigraphy of the myocardium, using 99mTc pyrophosphate and 201Tl. A relationship was found between the development of hypertrophy of the left ventricle and the impairment of it perfusion and function. At the same time there was a correlation between the decrease in cardiac output and the deterioration of myocardial blood supply. It was demonstrated that 99mTc pyrophosphate or 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy yielded the coincident results when relative heart failure was evaluated in patients with arterial hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy.
Prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients after percutaneous coronary intervention.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the value of myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in predicting major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We revised retrospectively patients after PCI that underwent MPI and were followed for a year for the presence of MACE. We found no differences in the incidence of MACE between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. On multivariate analysis, the presence of ischemia by MPI was the most important independent predictor of MACE (OR 5.09, CI 95% 2.15-12.05, p < 0.001). The presence of myocardial ischemia by MPI performed after PCI, and no symptom status, predicts a worse outcome during 1 year of follow-up.
ECG and thallium imaging abnormalities with normal coronary angiogram in a male flight surgeon.	Coronary artery disease and cardiac anomalies have the potential to cause sudden incapacitation in the flight environment with potentially disastrous consequences. Flight surgeons are responsible for screening for these potential diseases. We report a case of a healthy, active, asymptomatic U.S. flight surgeon returning for duty who demonstrated an abnormal ECG, graded exercise test, and thallium imaging. He was ultimately referred for cardiac catheterization that revealed normal coronary arteries. We discuss the sensitivity of non-invasive screening studies in healthy young individuals and potential causes of "false-positive" thallium imaging.
Detection of coronary artery disease using real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography: a comparison with dual-isotope resting thallium-201/stress technectium-99m sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography.	Real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) has the potential to evaluate myocardial perfusion and wall motion (WM) simultaneously. The purposes of this study were to correlate the diagnostic value of MCE with radionuclide single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and to assess the sensitivity and specificity of real-time MCE in detecting coronary artery disease (CAD). Seventy patients with clinically suspected CAD underwent MCE and SPECT at baseline and after dipyridamole infusion. Segmental perfusion with MCE using low mechanical index after 0.3-0.4-ml bolus injections of perfluorocarbon exposed sonicated dextrose albumin solution was performed. All patients had a dual-isotope (rest thallium-201, stress sestamibi) study performed both at baseline and after dipyridamole infusion, and 40 patients had subsequent quantitative coronary angiography. Abnormalities were noted in 27 patients (38.6%) by MCE, in 29 patients (41.4%) by WM analysis, and in 30 patients (42.9%) by SPECT imaging. When MCE and WM analysis were combined, the agreement with SPECT imaging improved from 75.7% (Kappa = 0.50) to 82.0% (Kappa = 0.62). In 40 patients (120 territories) who underwent coronary angiography, good perfusion concordance was achieved for the left anterior descending and left circumflex arteries, and was fair for the right coronary arteries. Compared with quantitative angiography, there was no difference in sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy in detecting significant CAD among the three modalities. The combination of MCE and WM had a better sensitivity (84%), specificity (93.3%), and accuracy (87.5%) than the MCE and WM analysis alone. However, the difference did not reach statistical significance. Real-time MCE has a good agreement with SPECT imaging for detecting CAD. The combination of MCE and WM appears to have higher sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy in detecting CAD than either technique alone.
Relationship between redistribution on exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy and repetitive ventricular premature beats in patients with recent myocardial infarction.	The relationship between myocardial ischemia detected by exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy and repetitive ventricular premature beats (VPBs) during ambulatory monitoring was evaluated in 57 patients with recent myocardial infarction. Multivariate analysis was performed to obtain the relatively important factor related to repetitive VPBs with the use of the following variables: age, redistribution, left ventricular ejection fraction, serum potassium and magnesium concentration, QRS score, left ventricular aneurysm, and the number of diseased vessels. Thirty-five patients had redistribution, but only three of them had repetitive VPBs during exercise testing. The average heart rate before 79% of 398 episodes of repetitive VPBs during ambulatory monitoring was in the range of 56 to 70/min. These data indicate that most of repetitive VPBs during ambulatory monitoring were not provoked by exercise-induced acute myocardial ischemia. However, redistribution was found to be an important factor associated with repetitive VPBs. The electrical abnormality relating to a substrate characterized by chronic reversible ischemia may explain the association between redistribution and repetitive VPBs.
Assessment of viable myocardium by nitrate augmented 99mTc MIBI myocardial perfusion imaging.	To determine the efficacy of 99mTcMIBI with nitrate administration for the detection of viable myocardium in patients with MI.
Left main coronary artery stenosis: state-of-the-art.	Patients with stenosis of the left main coronary artery present difficult challenges. The risks associated with this lesion have been known since the early days of angiography when patients were found to have increased mortality during follow-up. This information led to the general guidelines that surgical revascularization should be considered the treatment of choice in patients with significant left main coronary artery stenosis. Current advances in invasive cardiology have brought important information to the field. Intravascular ultrasound is now used routinely to evaluate angiographically indeterminate lesions with criteria now set forward as to what constitutes an indication for revascularization. Stents have even further dramatically changed the landscape. There are substantial issues, however, that need to addressed. These include the following: (1) the effect of specific lesion location on outcome - it is known that patients with distal bifurcation left main disease have worse outcome; (2) the potential for subacute thrombosis of the left main coronary artery; (3) the impact of left ventricular function and patient comorbidities irrespective of the degree and location of left main coronary artery stenosis; and (4) the risk-benefit ratio of stenting versus coronary artery bypass graft surgery. These issues are currently being addressed in two seminally important trials including the SYNTAX trial, which randomizes patients with left main and/or three-vessel disease to either coronary artery bypass graft surgery or a TAXUS drug-eluting stent. This trial is in the final stages of patient recruitment and will have important implications for the field. The other trial is the COMBAT trial, which is focused exclusively on left main coronary artery stenosis and randomizes patients with left main coronary artery disease either to a Sirolimus-eluting stent (Cypher, Johnson and Johnson Cordis, USA) or to coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The field of left main coronary artery disease continues to expand in terms of the evidence available for optimal patient evaluation and selection of treatment modalities.
Angina pectoris due to possible vasospasm of small coronary arteries.	Recently, the presence of vasospasm in small coronary arteries is speculated in animals and humans. A 40-year-old female patient complained of chest pain at rest. Left ventriculogram showed normal wall motions. Left and right coronary arteries were also normal. After methylergometrine maleate was selectively administered to a right coronary artery, she complained of chest pain, and ST-segment elevation was detected in leads II, III, and aVF of ECG. Right coronary arteriography was performed immediately, but no coronary stenosis was found. The next day, methylergometrine maleate was again administered intravenously and the patient complained of chest pain, but no ischemic changes were observed in ECG. Thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy followed immediately. Apical perfusion defect was detected in stress image. In the delayed image, it showed complete redistribution. Three days later, catheterization and scintigraphy were performed at the same time. When methylergometrine maleate was administered to the left coronary artery, she complained of chest pain within a few minutes of the injection; however, ECG remained unchanged. 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy was performed immediately. In the stress image, it showed apical perfusion defect as shown in the intravenous methylergometrine maleate injection study. It also showed complete redistribution in the delayed image. Apical perfusion defect can be attributed to myocardial ischemia of left coronary artery, which are too small to be detected by conventional coronary arteriography. Vasospasm in small coronary arteries may be involved in this phenomenon.
Diagnosis of myocardial ischaemia by means of precordial ST mapping and exercise 201-thallium scintigraphy.	The authors compared the results of examination by means of exercise precordial ST mapping and exercise 201-thallium scintigraphy in 43 patients with ischaemic heart disease and in 10 controls. The methods have been found to be equally helpful in establishing the diagnosis of myocardial ischaemia. 201-thallium scintigraphy is preferred when trying to quantify the lesion and to localize it. The currently available techniques of exercise EGG mapping do not always make determination of ischaemia distribution possible. The benefits inherent in either method are their non-invasiveness and good reproducibility, features making them ideal tools for assessing the effect of treatment.
Evaluation of acute myocardial infarction by 201T1 single-photon emission computed tomography using scoring system]	In 36 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) 201T1 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) examinations were performed in a relatively early phase of AMI. The short and long axis views of the left ventricle (LV) were divided into 6 segments. Images of each segment were assigned scores (segmental scores) based on a visual evaluation of the extent of 210T1 accumulations as follows: 1 = normal; 2 = relatively low; 3 = low; 4 = severely low; 5 = cold. The sum total of the segmental scores constituted the SPECT score. SPECT scores were compared with maxGOT, maxLDH, maxCPK and maxCK-MB, Killip classification and Forrester hemodynamic subset on admission, and LV ejection fraction (LVEF). Segmental scores were compared with LV wall motion evaluated by left ventriculography. The results are summarized as follows: 1) There were significant correlations between SPECT scores and maxGOT, maxLDH, maxCPK and maxCK-MB (r = 0.62, r = 0.60, r = 0.51 and r = 0.39, respectively). 2) SPECT scores in patients with Killip group III were significantly higher than in patients with Killip group I + II (p less than 0.05). However, no significant differences in maxGOT, maxLDH, maxCPK and maxCK-MB were observed between patients with Killip group III and those with Killip group I + II. 3) SPECT scores were significantly higher in patients with Forrester group III + IV than in patients with Forrester group I + II (p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Assessment of right ventricular overload by a thallium-201 SPECT study in children with congenital heart disease.	Thallium-201 planar and SPECT studies were performed in 38 children with congenital heart disease using high-resolution three-headed SPECT. The 201Tl total or average right ventricular-to-left ventricular (RV/LV) count ratios were measured by summed short-axis images. In the planar study, the RV/LV systolic pressure ratio correlated with 201Tl RV/LV average count ratio (r = 0.91) better than that in the SPECT study (r = 0.78). However, in the SPECT study, patients with atrial septal defect (n = 9), ventricular septal defect (n = 13), tetralogy of Fallot and double outlet right ventricle (n = 6) showed a characteristic distribution in the plot of RV/LV pressure ratio versus 201Tl RV/LV total count ratio. A prospective study showed that the RV/LV average count ratio was a good predictor of RV/LV pressure ratio (n = 19, r = 0.91). Three-headed SPECT is useful for pediatric cardiac studies, and the overload types found in congenital heart disease seemed to be differentiated by the SPECT study.
Thallium-201 SPECT depicts radiologically occult lung cancer.	A case of radiologically occult lung cancer is presented in which 201TI SPECT of the chest clearly delineated the involved area. A 66-yr-old man underwent chest screening examinations for asymptomatic smokers and presented a positive sputum cytology for lung cancer. Conventional chest x-ray, tomography of computed radiography, and a CT scan failed to locate the lesion in the lung. Thallium-201 SPECT, however, was successful in depicting the area of the involvement.
Exercise induced precordial T wave normalization associated with U wave inversion in detection of left anterior descending artery stenosis]	Although normalization of inverted T wave is not an uncommon finding during exercise tests, it's clinical significance is still unclear. Exercise 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) were recorded by using Master's 2-step or ergometer. T wave normalization in the anterior chest leads was found in 20 patients with, and 14 patients without coronary artery disease (CAD). Coronary angiography and/or exercise Tl-201 myocardial imaging were also performed in every patient. Exercise-induced T wave normalization was defined as "inverted T wave at rest becoming upright during exercise". ST segment, T and U wave amplitudes were measured before and immediately after exercise. 1) All of the 20 patients (100%) with CAD demonstrated critical stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (LAD). 2) ST deviation was noted in none of the 14 patients (0%) without CAD, and in only 4 of the 20 patients (20%) with CAD. 3) T wave amplitude increased equally in patients both with and without CAD. 4) Exercise-induced U wave inversion was found in 16 of the 20 patients (80%) with CAD, whereas it was found in only 1 of the 14 patients (7%) without CAD. 5) The sensitivity of "U wave inversion" in detection of LAD stenosis was 80%, and the specificity was 93%. We conclude that exercise-induced T wave normalization associated with U wave inversion in anterior chest leads is highly indicative of the specific presence of critical LAD stenosis.
Systematic review of the diagnostic accuracy of 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography in the detection of recurrent glioma.	To determine the diagnostic accuracy of 201Tl SPECT in the detection of tumour recurrence in patients with previous radiotherapy for supratentorial glioma.
Early prediction of myocardial salvage after primary coronary angioplasty: comparative study of coronary flow velocity pattern immediately after primary coronary angioplasty and perfusion-metabolism mismatch.	Perfusion-metabolism mismatch in the subacute phase using thallium-201/radio iodinated beta-methyl-p-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (T1/BMIPP) dual scintigraphy is an indicator of viable myocardium in acute myocardial infarction. This study investigated early prediction of myocardial salvage from the T1/BMIPP mismatch and coronary flow velocity (CFV) patterns in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Defect images in stress thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy in patients with complete left bundle branch block: comparison of exercise stress and pharmacological stress.	Stress thallium-201 (201Tl) myocardial scintigraphy can demonstrate perfusion abnormalities, especially in the septum in patients with complete left bundle branch block (CLBBB) even with angiographically normal coronary arteries. Differences in the images between exercise and pharmacological stress 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy were evaluated in patients with CLBBB and normal coronary arteries.
Systemic and left ventricular responses to exercise stress in asymptomatic patients with valvular aortic stenosis.	Patients with heart disease may have myocardial ischemia or left ventricular (LV) dysfunction without symptoms. The exercise responses of 14 asymptomatic patients with valvular aortic stenosis (AS) were studied using treadmill testing, thallium-201 scintigraphy and radionuclide angiography. Compared with age- and gender-matched control subjects, patients with AS demonstrated reduced exercise tolerance (10.7 +/- 2.5 vs 13.3 +/- 4.2 min; p = 0.06) and maximal oxygen consumption (26.7 +/- 6.3 vs 36.3 +/- 9.5 ml O2/min/kg; p = 0.004) associated with decreased peak systolic blood pressure response to exercise (177 +/- 18 vs 214 +/- 42 mm Hg; p less than 0.004). Ten of 14 patients developed ST-segment depression during exercise, only 3 of whom had reversible thallium defects. Patients with AS tended to have greater LV ejection fractions at rest (65 +/- 11 vs 58 +/- 7; p = 0.08) and significantly decreased early peak filling rates (4.8 +/- 1.3 vs 6.1 +/- 0.6 stroke volume/s; p = 0.003) compared with those of control subjects. During maximal supine exercise, patients with AS had less of an increase in ejection fraction (2 +/- 9 vs 15 +/- 7%; p less than 0.001) associated with a decrease in end-diastolic (-7 +/- 15 vs +5 +/- 16%; p = 0.06) and stroke (-6 +/- 17 vs +30 +/- 13%; p less than 0.001) volumes from baseline measurements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of daily high-intensity exercise on myocardial perfusion in angina pectoris.	Forty male patients with chronic stable angina pectoris and no prior myocardial infarction were studied by planar thallium scintigraphy with use of circumferential profile analysis. Ischemic defects were assessed by measuring degrees of circumference involved and area of defect. Data were collected for 3 vascular regions in each of 3 views (anterior, 45 degrees and 65 degrees left anterior oblique projection). Patients were then randomized to exercise and control groups, the former training for a period of 1 year using the Canadian Airforce plan for physical fitness. After 1 year, both groups were restudied. Exercise training produced a 34% reduction in degrees of ischemia overall (p less than 0.02), the most significant change being seen on the anterior view (72 degrees +/- 59 degrees before vs 30 degrees +/- 35 degrees after training). Regional analysis showed markedly improved perfusion anterolaterally and apically on the anterior view and anteroseptally on the 65 degrees left anterior oblique view. These improvements support the hypothesis that exercise training improves myocardial perfusion by enhanced collateral function.
Silent versus symptomatic ischemia during a thallium-201 exercise test.	One hundred thirty-four patients with redistribution on a thallium-201 exercise test who did not experience angina (group 1) were compared with 134 patients also having redistribution who had angina during the test (group 2). The groups were matched by age, sex, and peak exercise heart rate. Although patients in both groups achieved an equivalent exercise level, patients in group 1 had less frequent (53 vs 71%, p less than 0.005) and less severe (0.15 +/- 0.13 vs 0.20 +/- 0.13 mV, p less than 0.005) ischemic ST-segment depression. Group 1 also had less ischemic thallium-201 images in terms of the number of redistributing defects, the severity of the worst redistributing defect, and an ischemic index composite of both extent and severity. Patients in group 1 were less likely to undergo early revascularization (12 vs 29%, p less than 0.005), but in the remaining patients the occurrence of adverse cardiac events was similar (21% vs 29%, p = not significant). By multivariate analysis, only the ischemic index correlated with early revascularization in group 1 (p = 0.0017), whereas the percent maximal predicted heart rate correlated best in group 2 (p = 0.0003). In group 1 the ratio of lung/heart thallium-201 uptake correlated best with an outcome of nonfatal myocardial infarction or cardiac death (p = 0.0024); in group 2 the presence of fixed left ventricular dilatation did (p = 0.0022). Thus, patients with exercise-induced thallium-201 redistribution without angina have less ischemia than patients experiencing angina.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The diagnostic value of adenosine stress-contrast echocardiography for diagnosis of coronary artery disease in hypertensive patients: comparison to Tl-201 single-photon emission computed tomography.	The use of the vasodilating agent adenosine as stressor in conjunction with myocardial contrast echocardiography has not been extensively evaluated in hypertensive patients. Our aim was to evaluate the diagnostic value of adenosine myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) in comparison to single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), with reference to angiographic findings, in a hypertensive population.
Electrocardiographic markers of ischemia during mental stress testing in postinfarction patients. Role of body surface mapping.	In patients with coronary artery disease, radionuclide investigations have documented a high incidence of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in the absence of significant electrocardiographic changes and/or angina. To investigate the causes of the low electrocardiographic sensitivity, we recorded body surface maps during mental arithmetic in 22 normal volunteers and 37 postinfarction patients with residual exercise ischemia. Myocardial perfusion was studied with thallium-201 or technetium-99 (SESTAMIBI) planar scans. In 14 patients, body surface maps were also recorded during atrial pacing at the heart rate values achieved during mental stress. While taking the body surface maps, the area from J point to 80 msec after this point (ST-80) was analyzed by integral maps, difference maps, and departure maps (the difference between each patient's difference map and the mean difference map for normal subjects). The body surface mapping criteria for ischemia were a new negative area on the integral maps, a negative potential of more than 2 SD from mean normal values on the difference maps, and a negative departure index of more than 2. Scintigraphy showed asymptomatic myocardial hypoperfusion in 33 patients. Eight patients had significant ST segment depression. The ST-80 integral and difference maps identified 17 ischemic patients. Twenty-four patients presented abnormal departure maps. One patient presented ST depression and abnormal body surface maps without reversible tracer defect. In 14 of 14 patients, atrial pacing did not reproduce the body surface map abnormalities. The analyses of the other electrocardiographic variables showed that in patients with mental stress-induced perfusion defects, only changes of T apex-T offset (aT-eT) interval in Frank leads and changes of maximum negative potential value of aT-eT integral maps significantly differed from those of normal subjects. Our results confirm the low electrocardiographic sensitivity for detecting mental stress-induced myocardial hypoperfusion in postinfarction patients. ST analysis in the body surface map increases the information content of the electrocardiographic signal. T wave analysis appears to offer fewer diagnostic advantages.
Left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischemia (coronary atherosclerosis excluded)]	The diagnosis of myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease in the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy associated with chest pain and ST-T wave changes is difficult. Resting and exercise ST changes are not specific and even stress or dipyridamole Thallium scintigraphy may give erroneous results. In fact, the changes of myocardial perfusion induced by left ventricular hypertrophy reflect a reduction of coronary vasodilator reserve and the increased coronary vascular resistance explains the angina with normal coronary arteries observed in these patients. The reduction of coronary reserve is the result of complex and controversial processes: increased vascular compression, reduction of capillary density: hypertrophy of the arteriolar media or simply changes in coronary vasomotricity. Understanding these abnormalities implies appropriate antihypertensive treatment: lowering the blood pressure, reducing the myocardial hypertrophy and improving subendocardial perfusion.
Usefulness of Tl-201 SPECT imaging in evaluation of left ventricular hypertrophy and dilation in patients with previous myocardial infarction.	Using short axis slices of Tl-201 myocardial SPECT images, total left ventricular (LV) mass, perfused LV mass, defect size, defect mass, ratio of total LV area to cavity area (T/C), ratio of radius of total LV area to radius of cavity area (TR/CR), and ratio of wall thickness to radius of cavity area (W/R) were obtained. The left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was calculated using blood pool imaging studies. A total of 33 patients with old myocardial infarctions were studied. The patients were divided into group 1 (n = 16) with no history of heart failure, and group 2 (n = 17) with a history of heart failure. The LVEF (P less than 0.001), T/C (P less than 0.005), TR/CR (P less than 0.005) and W/R (P less than 0.001) were significantly lower, while the total LV mass (P less than 0.001) and perfused LV mass (P less than 0.01) were significantly higher in group 2. In the whole group of 33 patients, there was inverse linear correlation between the total LV mass and LVEF (r = -0.82), perfused LV mass and LVEF (r = -0.67), and defect mass and LVEF (r = -0.59). There was linear correlation between W/R and LVEF (r = 0.64). Nonlinear correlations were found between T/C and LVEF (r = 0.81) and TR/CR and LVEF (r = 0.80). Tl-201 myocardial SPECT imaging is useful for the evaluation of LV hypertrophy and cavity dilation in patients with previous myocardial infarction.
The scoring system for early technetium-99m pyrophosphate scintigraphy as a method of evaluation of limiting the myocardial infarct size by thrombolysis.	The usefulness of a scoring system with early technetium-99m pyrophosphate scintigraphy as a method for evaluating the efficacy of myocardial preservation after thrombolysis was studied. The mean time from the onset of acute myocardial infarction to injection of the tracer was 5.6 +/- 1.5 h (range 2.8 to 11.9 h). All 36 patients underwent successful recanalization. Patients with strongly positive technetium-99m pyrophosphate uptake in anterior acute myocardial infarction had a significantly lower regional ejection fraction and a significantly larger thallium-201 defect score than those with 2+ positive results in chronic stage. Similarly, in inferior acute myocardial infarction, the thallium-201 defect score was significantly larger in patients with strongly positive uptake than in those with 2+ and negative uptake scores. In conclusion, strongly positive results in early technetium-99m pyrophosphate scintigraphy within 12h after the onset of acute myocardial infarction may indicate failure in limiting the infarct size by coronary thrombolysis.
Extracranial metastatic glioblastoma: appearance on thallium-201-chloride/technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT images.	Sequential thallium-201-chloride and technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images were obtained in a patient with extracranial metastatic glioblastoma multiforme. Thallium-201 uptake was high (three times the scalp background) in all pathologically confirmed extracranial metastases and moderate (1.6 times scalp background) intracranially, where most biopsy specimens showed gliosis with scattered atypical astrocytes. Technetium-99m-HMPAO uptake was decreased intracranially in the right frontal and parietal lobes which had been irradiated. It was also decreased in one well-encapsulated scalp lesion and high in another scalp mass with less defined borders. Possible mechanisms of tumor uptake of these agents are reviewed.
Misinterpretation of the upper parathyroid adenoma on thallium-201/technetium-99m subtraction scintigraphy.	Pre-operative thallium-technetium subtraction scintigraphy of 50 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, which was subsequently proven on histology to be due to an adenoma, was compared with operative findings. Six scans were negative and seven uninterpretable. Of the remaining 37 patients, 34 had correct scan prediction of the anatomical locations of the adenomas. On examination of the origins of the adenomas, all six scintigraphic predictions of upper adenomas corresponded to tumours arising from the upper gland found at operation. Of the 25 lower predictions, there was one false positive and 16 were correct, i.e. of lower gland origin, but eight were found to originate from the upper gland. This misinterpretation is though to be due to the prolapse of an adenoma arising from the upper gland towards the lower pole of the thyroid, thereby mimicking a lower lesion on the scan.
rCBF-SPECT in brain infarction: when does it predict outcome?	We prospectively studied 26 patients with ischemic stroke within 24 hr, after 2 wk, and after 6 mo with thallium-201-diethyldithiocarbamate single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and neurologic and functional assessments. The admission flow deficits correlated with outcome. The admission and 6-mo scores correlated with clinical conditions at each time. At 2 wk, the flow deficits were smaller and did not correlate with clinical parameters. Nor did the presence or absence of hyperfixation of the radiopharmaceutical. Six months after the infarct, the flow defect had decreased in 9 of 15 patients in whom three serial scans were available, with better clinical improvement than in the remaining six whose flow deficits increased. More patients in the first group had been treated randomly with the calcium-entry blocker flunarizine. SPECT imaging of rCBF within 24 hr after stroke correlates with clinical outcome and condition, whereas rCBF imaging at 2 wk after the stroke shows no clinical correlation.
Submaximal exercise thallium-201 SPECT for assessment of interventional therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction.	Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing has been shown to provide important diagnostic and prognostic information in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the diagnostic value of early submaximal stress testing and thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) after interventional therapy. Scintigraphic results from 56 patients with infarctions, who underwent acute thrombolytic therapy, angioplasty, or both, were compared with late (6 weeks) functional outcome as assessed by radionuclide ventriculography and with results of discharge coronary angiography. A linear correlation was found between the extent of thallium-201 SPECT perfusion defect and late ventricular function (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01). Forty-two percent of patients with large SPECT perfusion defects had normal left ventricular ejection fractions, suggesting an overestimation of infarct size by early imaging. Sensitivity and specificity of thallium-201 SPECT for detection of coronary artery stenosis in noninfarct territories was 57% and 46%, respectively, indicating limited diagnostic definition of extent of underlying coronary artery disease. Results of follow-up coronary angiography showed a significant relationship between the size of the initial perfusion defect and early restenosis or reocclusion of the infarct artery. Thus the extent of early thallium-201 perfusion defects correlates with late functional outcome but appears to overestimate the degree of injury. Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing allows only limited characterization of underlying coronary artery disease. Early assessment of infarct size may identify a patient population at high risk for reocclusion of the infarct artery.
Radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging.	Objective assessment of myocardial perfusion is important in the diagnosis, management and long-term follow-up of patients with coronary artery disease. Thallium-201 perfusion imaging provides valuable information about myocardial viability, regional myocardial blood flow and physiologically important coronary artery disease at rest, during exercise and during pharmacologically induced coronary vasodilation. Dipyridamole "stress" myocardial imaging is indicated in the evaluation of patients who are unable to exercise or who cannot achieve 85 percent of the maximum predicted heart rate. It also may be useful in the preoperative assessment of patients undergoing elective vascular surgery.
Magnetic resonance imaging of myocardial infarction: correlation with enzymatic, angiographic, and radionuclide findings.	Spin-echo cardiac magnetic resonance imaging studies were performed in 20 patients with a first 7- to 14-day-old (mean 10) myocardial infarction. The magnetic resonance imaging findings were compared with coronary angiography (14 patients), myocardial enzyme release (18 patients), radionuclide angiography (19 patients), and thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy (19 patients). Regional T2 relaxation times determined from the signal intensities at echo times 30 msec and 90 msec were significantly prolonged in the infarcted areas. Based on abnormal T2 times for every patient, a regional and a total myocardial damage score was determined. The infarct-related artery was correctly identified in 93% of patients by magnetic resonance imaging, in 79% of patients by thallium-201 scintigraphy, and in 62% of patients by radionuclide angiography. The total damage score correlated well with enzymatic infarct size (r = 0.75, p less than 0.001). The correlation between left ventricular end-systolic volume index determined by magnetic resonance imaging and by radionuclide angiography was r = 0.89 (p less than 0.002). The left ventricular end-systolic volume index correlated significantly with enzymatic infarct size (r = 0.72, p less than 0.001), total damage score (r = 0.68, p less than 0.002), and radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction (r = -0.68, p less than 0.002). Correlations between the magnetic resonance damage score and the thallium-201 perfusion score were r = 0.60 (p less than 0.01) for the exercise images, and r = 0.72 (p less than 0.001) for the redistribution images. This study shows that spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging is quite comparable with the established noninvasive imaging modalities currently used in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Reduced left ventricular cavitary activity ("black hole sign") in thallium-201 SPECT perfusion images of anteroapical transmural myocardial infarction.	Apparently reduced left ventricular (LV) cavitary thallium activity in both planar and tomographic perfusion images has been previously observed by these and other investigators. With single-photon emission computerized tomography, we have clinically noted that this "black hole sign" was associated with an aneurysm in the setting of a transmural anterior or anteroapical perfusion defect. We have now prospectively studied the etiology and predictive value of this sign in 84 consecutive patients with an anterior, anteroapical transmural perfusion defect. Of the 84 patients, 49 had both LV aneurysm (confirmed by contrast ventriculography, echocardiography or gated blood pool studies) and a black hole sign. Only 1 patient with an aneurysm did not have the black hole sign, and 2 without aneurysm did. Thus, it is concluded that this sign is highly accurate in diagnosing LV aneurysm. Because thallium-201 single-photon emission computerized tomography imaging is often performed as one of the first diagnostic tests soon after myocardial infarction, this has important clinical management implications.
Atrial pacing with two-dimensional echocardiography for evaluation of chest pain: comparison with thallium 201 scintigraphy.	Atrial pacing was performed with two-dimensional (2-D) echocardiography and thallium 201 scintigraphy in 40 men with stable chest pain. Coronary angiography showed significant (one or more lesions greater than or equal to 50%) coronary artery disease (CAD) in 36 patients and no or insignificant CAD in 4. Two dimensional echocardiography showed a left ventricular wall motion abnormality (WMA) either at rest or with pacing in 28 (78%) patients with CAD, with 17 (47%) showing a new or worsened WMA with pacing. A thallium scan showing abnormality (reversible or fixed perfusion defect) was seen in 26 (72%) patients with CAD; 18 (50%) had a reversible defect. In all, 34 of the 36 patients with CAD (94%) had a WMA, a perfusion defect, or both (specificity 50%). Occurrence of both a WMA and a perfusion defect in individual segments ranged from 10 of 25 patients with septal abnormalities to 0 of 12 with abnormalities of the lateral segment. Sensitivity of 2-D echocardiography for identifying CAD in specific vessels was 81% for the left anterior descending (LAD) artery, 30% for the right coronary artery, and 20% for the circumflex artery (both p less than .001 compared with the LAD artery). Corresponding sensitivities for thallium 201 imaging were 54% (p less than .05 compared with 2-D echocardiography), 27%, and 8% (both p less than .05 compared with the LAD artery). When combined with atrial pacing, 2-D echocardiography and thallium 201 perfusion imaging are of similar value for diagnosing the presence of CAD in patients with stable chest pain. Two-dimensional echocardiography is superior to thallium 201 imaging for identifying the presence of significant CAD in the LAD artery, but both tests are limited in their ability to detect lesions of the right coronary or circumflex arteries.
Value of thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy under transesophageal atrial stimulation for the diagnosis of coronary disease]	Fifty patients hospitalized for chest pain underwent coronary angiography, and thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy after exercise (TE) and under transesophageal atrial stimulation (TST). The double product mean during exercise was 2,223 +/- 579 beats x cmHg/min and 2,313 +/- 420 beats x cmHg/min under TST (NS). The criterion of positivity was early hypofixation. Thallium redistribution 4 hours after administration is indicative of reversible ischemia. Thirty-six patients had more than 50% narrowing in at least one of the three principle coronary arteries. The predictive sensitivity for coronary stenosis was 83% for TE and 94% for TST. The respective specificities were 71 and 78%. The comparison of segmental hypoperfusion after exercise and under TST gave similar results in 230 of the 250 segments studied (92%). Thus, TST provides and alternative diagnostic method to TE for the detection of coronary artery disease and can be performed in patients for whom the usual stress test is not possible, most particularly when dipyridamole is counter indicated because of a bronchospastic factor.
Diagnostic accuracy of peak exercise echocardiography in coronary artery disease: comparison with thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy.	To evaluate the accuracy of exercise two-dimensional echocardiography for the recognition of coronary artery disease, 53 patients (46 men and 7 women, age range 35 to 69 years) without either previous myocardial infarction or resting wall motion abnormalities, were studied. According to coronary angiography 26 had normal coronary arteries, 14 had one-vessel, seven had two-vessel, and six had three-vessel disease. After withdrawal of any therapy, all patients underwent a single exercise stress test with a stress table during which cine-loop digitized echocardiography was acquired and 74 MBq of thallium-201 (TI-201) were injected. Echocardiographic images were evaluated at rest and at peak exercise. Three-view planar scintigraphic images were collected immediately after exercise and 4 hours later. For the overall recognition of coronary artery disease, exercise electrocardiography had 77.8% sensitivity and 65.4% specificity; myocardial scintigraphy had 100% sensitivity and 92.3% specificity; and exercise echocardiography had 92.6% sensitivity and 96.2% specificity (both NS versus myocardial scintigraphy). Global accuracy was 71.7% for exercise electrocardiography, 94.3% for stress echocardiography, and 96.2% for myocardial scintigraphy. For the classification of the individual involved coronary arteries, the sensitivity of myocardial scintigraphy was 84.8% and that of exercise echocardiography was 63% (p less than 0.01); the related specificities were 98% and 98.2% respectively (NS). It may be concluded that exercise echocardiography is highly accurate for the recognition of coronary artery disease, whereas it appears less sensitive in the identification of the involved vessels, particularly in patients with multivessel disease.
Predictive value of thallium-201-dipyridamole myocardial stress scintigraphy in chronic hemodialysis patients and transplant recipients.	The prognostic impact of thallium(Tl)-201-dipyridamole (DPM) stress and redistribution scintigraphy done in 36 patients on chronic hemodialysis (HD) and in 23 renal transplant recipients (TRs) was evaluated according to cardiovascular complications and survival in a follow-up period of six years. Though symptomatic ischemic heart disease (IHD) was present in 33% of HD patients and in 17% of TRs, 50% and 39%, respectively, had Tl-201 findings indicative of IHD. The duration of HD treatment was similar for patients with an abnormal or normal scintigraphic finding. Abnormal Tl-201 results were seen more frequently in older patients. During follow-up, 27 of 36 HD-patients died, 16 had an abnormal and 11 a normal Tl-201-DPM finding; cardiovascular complications were the cause of death in 88% and 18% of these patients, respectively. Thus the incidence of death from fatal cardiac events was 12% per year at risk for the former and 1.9% per year at risk for the latter. In TRs survival was not different for patients with an abnormal or normal Tl-201 finding (56% vs. 64%). However, fatal or nonfatal cardiovascular events were seen more frequently in patients with an abnormal Tl-201 results (78% versus 7%; p less than 0.0001). Stepwise logistic analysis and survival analysis demonstrated Tl-201-DPM stress/redistribution scintigraphy to be the only predictor for identifying patients at increased risk for cardiovascular events. In patients with abnormal Tl-201-DPM scintigraphy subsequent survival was extended for symptomatic patients as compared to asymptomatic ones )30.3 +/- 21.6 versus 22.0 +/- 17.3 months; p less than 0.008).
Validation of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using thallium-201 in patients with lung cancer.	To evaluate the primary site, pulmonary hilar, and mediastinal lesions in patients with lung cancer, thallium-201 using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used as a tumor agent. The study population consisted of 7 patients (5 men and 2 women), aged 57 to 82 years (mean 68). Tl-201 tomography imaged positive at the primary site in all patients with lung cancer. The images demonstrated the tumor and/or mediastinal lymph nodes that were greater than 2.0cm. In particular, each tomograms facilitated the identification of the Tl-201 increased uptake in proportion to primary site. The short waiting period after injection with Tl-201 clearly offers a major advantage over alternative tumor imaging agents, such as Ga-67 or radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies. Furthermore, Tl-201 SPECT may be useful to detect the tumor and/or mediastinal lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer.
Small field-of-view dedicated cardiac SPECT systems: impact of projection truncation.	Small field-of-view (FOV) dedicated cardiac SPECT systems suffer from truncated projection data. This results in (1) neglect of liver activity that otherwise could be used to estimate (and subsequently correct) the amount of scatter in the myocardium by model-based scatter correction, and (2) distorted attenuation maps. In this study, we investigated to what extent truncation impacts attenuation correction and model-based scatter correction in the cases of (99m)Tc, (201)Tl, and simultaneous (99m)Tc/(201)Tl studies. In addition, we evaluated a simple correction method to mitigate the effects of truncation.
Dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging: a new marker of triple-vessel disease.	To investigate the significance and mechanism of dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging, we performed both dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging and dipyridamole radionuclide angiography on 83 patients with known angiograms. The dipyridamole/delayed ratio of the left ventricular dimension from the thallium-201 image was defined as the left ventricular dilatation ratio (LVDR). An LVDR greater than the mean + two standard deviations in patients without coronary artery disease was defined as abnormal. Twenty-two of 83 patients showed an abnormal LVDR, and 18 of the 22 patients (82%) had triple-vessel disease. By defect and washout analysis, the sensitivity and specificity for correctly identifying the patients as having triple-vessel disease was 72% and 76%, respectively, whereas LVDR had a sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 93%. When LVDR was used in combination with the defect and washout criteria, sensitivity increased to 84% without a loss of specificity. In those 22 patients with abnormal LVDRs, end-diastolic volume measured by radionuclide angiography did not change after dipyridamole infusion. Dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging reflected relative subendocardial hypoperfusion induced by dipyridamole rather than actual chamber enlargement. The LVDR was moderately sensitive and highly specific for triple-vessel disease and provided complementary information to dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging.
Regional cardiac adrenergic function using I-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction.	The effect of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean +/- standard deviation 10 +/- 4 days after AMI. Regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with I-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph. Four hours after its administration, there was reduced MIBG uptake in the region of infarction, 0.38 +/- 0.31 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 compared with 0.60 +/- 0.30 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 and 0.92 +/- 0.35 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area, respectively, p less than 0.001. In all patients, the area of reduced MIBG uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 +/- 22 and 23 +/- 18%, respectively, p less than 0.001. After anterior wall AMI, the 4-hour MIBG defect score was 70 +/- 13% and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and MIBG uptake was 30 +/- 9% compared with 39 +/- 17 and 21 +/- 17% after inferior AMI, p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016, respectively. The 4-hour MIBG defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction, r = -0.73, p less than 0.001. Patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour, paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour MIBG defect scores, 62.5 +/- 15.0%, than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour, 44.6 +/- 23.4%, p = 0.036.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The variable extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease: quantification by thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography.	To assess the extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease of variable severity and location, quantitative exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography was performed in 158 consecutive patients with angiographically proved single vessel coronary artery disease. The extent of abnormal left ventricular perfusion was quantified from computer-generated polar maps of three-dimensional myocardial radioactivity. Patients with only a moderate (51% to 69%) stenosis tended to have a small perfusion defect irrespective of the coronary artery involved. Whereas a perfusion defect measuring greater than or equal to 10% of the left ventricle was found in 78% of patients with no prior infarction and severe (greater than or equal to 70%) stenosis, this was observed in only 24% of patients with moderate stenosis. Perfusion defect size increased with increasing severity of stenosis for the entire group without infarction and for those with left anterior descending, right and circumflex coronary artery stenosis. However, the correlation between stenosis severity and perfusion defect size was at best only modest (r = 0.38, p = 0.0001). The left anterior descending artery was shown to be the most important of the three coronary arteries for providing left ventricular perfusion. Proximal stenosis of this artery produced a perfusion defect approximately twice as large as that found in patients with a proximal right or circumflex artery stenosis. However, marked heterogeneity in perfusion defect size existed among all three vessels despite comparable stenosis severity. This was most apparent for the left anterior descending coronary artery, where mid vessel stenosis commonly produced a perfusion defect similar in size to that found in proximally stenosed vessels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Assessment of myocardial perfusion in patients after the arterial switch operation.	In 21 patients who had undergone the arterial switch operation, the adequacy of myocardial perfusion was evaluated by thallium-201 computed scintigraphy 2.6 +/- 2 (0.3-7) yr after surgery. Fourteen patients had undergone the arterial switch procedure after pulmonary artery banding and seven as a primary repair. Isoproterenol stress increased the heart rate by at least 55%. Tomographic imaging was performed at peak stress and 3 hr later in the reperfusion phase. Nine patients had perfusion defects. The perfusion defects were located at the left ventricular apex in four (with extension to the inferolateral wall in one), left ventricular anterolateral wall in two, ventricular septum in one, left ventricular inferior wall in one, and right ventricular free wall in one. Some of these defects could be due to myocardial damage at the time of surgery, but these results also raise concern about long-term adequacy of myocardial perfusion following the arterial switch procedure.
Silent ischemia after coronary angioplasty: evaluation of restenosis and extent of ischemia in asymptomatic patients by tomographic thallium-201 exercise imaging and comparison with symptomatic patients.	One hundred sixteen patients were evaluated to determine the ability of single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging to detect silent ischemia secondary to restenosis in asymptomatic patients after single and multiple vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the findings were compared with SPECT imaging detection of restenosis in symptomatic patients. The value of exercise electrocardiography (ECG) and the amount of ischemic myocardium in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were determined. Forty-one patients were asymptomatic after angioplasty; 77% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. Seventy-five patients had chest pain after angioplasty; 99% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. Restenosis occurred in 61% of asymptomatic and 59% of symptomatic patients and in 46% of the vessels in both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for detection of restenosis by SPECT in individual patients were 96%, 75% and 88% versus 91%, 77% and 85%, respectively, in the asymptomatic versus symptomatic groups (p = NS). Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for restenosis detection in individual vessels were 90%, 89% and 89% versus 84%, 77% and 84%, respectively, in the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups (p = NS), with similar results for the three major arteries. Sensitivity and accuracy of exercise ECG were significantly less than those of SPECT imaging for the patients with silent (40% and 44%) and symptomatic (59% and 64%) ischemia (p less than 0.001). Restenosis of vessels in the patients with silent and symptomatic ischemia was associated with an equal amount and degree of severity of ischemic myocardium in the two groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Contamination and radiation exposure from 201Tl in patients undergoing dialysis after a nuclear medicine study.	Our institution is a major kidney research and transplant center. Hemodialysis patients that are scheduled for renal transplant are given a 201Tl stress test. Possible radiation exposure and contamination are of concern to attending personnel. We investigated this situation and found measurable activity in the effluent of patients receiving dialysis but no significant contamination of equipment. We determined that dialysis personnel received minimal radiation exposure.
Blood flow of human soft tissue sarcomas measured by thallium-201 scanning: prediction of tumor response to radiation.	Thallium-201 chloride (201T1) has been used to determine regional perfusion in the myocardium and in tumors. This study was done to determine the potential prognostic importance of lesion tracer uptake to regression, local control, and rate of distant metastasis in 14 patients with neoplasms of soft tissue. Most patients had planned resections following preoperative radiation therapy. Minimum follow-up was 4 years. The ratio of nuclide uptake in the tumor to surrounding normal tissue was used as an estimate of relative blood flow. Tumors with acute volume responses (greater than or equal to 50% at the completion of X irradiation) had lower 201T1 uptake indicating lower relative blood flow than tumors that failed to have a volume reduction [1.63 +/- 0.30 (n = 9) vs 3.49 +/- 0.41 (n = 5) 201T1]. All patients had local tumor control. Patients with high uptake tumors tended to develop metastases at a higher frequency, although this was not statistically significant (p = 0.10). We conclude that 201T1 scans are a safe, non-invasive method of estimating tumor perfusion which can be useful to predict acute response to radiation, and may help to identify patients who will ultimately develop distant metastases.
Physiologic assessment of coronary artery fistula.	Coronary artery fistula is an uncommon clinical entity. The most common coronary artery fistula is from the right coronary artery to the right side of the heart, and it is less frequent to the pulmonary artery. The effect of a coronary artery fistula may be physiologically significant because of the steal phenomenon resulting in coronary ischemia. Based on published reports, it is recommended that patients with congenital coronary artery fistulas be considered candidates for elective surgical correction to prevent complications including development of congestive heart failure, angina, subacute bacterial endocarditis, myocardial infarction, and coronary aneurysm formation with rupture or embolization. A patient is presented in whom treadmill-exercise thallium imaging was effective in determining the degree of coronary steal from a coronary artery fistula, leading to successful corrective surgery.
Myocardial imaging with Tc-99m teboroxime: technique and initial results.	This study examined the results of Tc-99m teboroxime imaging in 22 patients aged 59 +/- 9 years and compared the results with those of thallium-201. The exercise and rest teboroxime studies were obtained within 3 hours of each other using a dose of 15 mCi/study. Because of the very short wash-out half-life of teboroxime, imaging was begun within 1 to 2 minutes after injection. Both SPECT and planar images were obtained; the SPECT protocol was modified by changing the number of frames, the time per frame, or the filters used for reconstruction of images. The planar images were obtained in the supine or upright position. Shorter acquisition time for SPECT (10 sec/frame) and the use of a Butterworth filter with a frequency cutoff of 0.3 cycle/cm and a power of 10 yielded best image quality. There was a close agreement with thallium results in identifying an abnormal or normal perfusion pattern in 89% of vascular territories. The scans were abnormal by both techniques in 12 patients, normal in nine patients, and discordant in only one patient. Thus Tc-99m teboroxime myocardial imaging is feasible at rest and during exercise using either SPECT or planar imaging. Shorter acquisition time and appropriate filtering for SPECT imaging and the upright position in planar imaging improve image quality and are convenient for the patient.
201Thallium reinjection after exertion-redistribution myocardial scintigraphy. A new method for distinguishing between scars and vital myocardium]	In a prospective study 38 patients (35 men, 3 women; median age 56 [37-71] years) with known coronary heart disease in whom conventional thallium-201 exercise-redistribution myocardial scintigraphy (ERMS) had demonstrated segments with diminished activity, thallium-201 was again injected ("reinjection scintigraphy"). Its purpose was to test whether in myocardial segments with persisting diminished radioactivity improved activity after reinjection provided evidence for still viable myocardium. Seven myocardial segments were evaluated in each patient, i.e. a total of 266 segments. Activity in the conventional ERMS was diminished in 94 of the 166 abnormal segments, but improved on reinjection in 21 of the 94 segments (22.3%). Nine of the 38 patients (23.7%) benefitted from the reinjection: only scar tissue without any viable myocardium would have been diagnosed by conventional ERMS in four patients, while extent and spread of ischaemic myocardium was better visualized in five.
A model to predict multivessel coronary artery disease from the exercise thallium-201 stress test.	The aim of this study was to (1) determine whether nonimaging variables add to the diagnostic information available from exercise thallium-201 images for the detection of multivessel coronary artery disease; and (2) to develop a model based on the exercise thallium-201 stress test to predict the presence of multivessel disease.
Myocardial imaging artifacts caused by mitral valve annulus calcification.	Knowledge of imaging artifact of myocardial perfusion studies with thallium-201 is critical for improving the diagnostic accuracy of coronary artery disease. Three patients are described who underwent exercise or pharmacologic stress thallium-201 imaging studies and had a moderate, fixed myocardial perfusion defect (scar) involving the posterolateral and inferoposterior walls of the left ventricle. This was an imaging artifact caused by a heavily calcified mitral valve annulus.
Dipyridamole technetium-99m-2-methoxy isobutyl isonitrile tomoscintigraphic imaging for identifying diseased coronary vessels: comparison with thallium-201 stress-rest study.	A same-day double injection protocol employing 99mTc-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (MIBI) and myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD) was assessed in 30 patients. SPECT was performed 1 hr after a first injection (250 MBq) of 99mTc-MIBI, given after 0.56 mg/kg dipyridamole (DPD) infusion. Patients were then reinjected at rest (750 MBq) and were reimaged 1 hr later. Within 1 wk, all patients underwent a complete stress-rest SPECT thallium study. Of the 330 myocardial segments evaluated, 25 were judged ischemic by both techniques, while persistent defects were demonstrated in 50 and in 47 with 99mTc-MIBI and 201TI, respectively. Six regions were considered for diseased vessels identification. Sensitivity and specificity for CAD were 100% and 75%, respectively, for both 201TI and 99mTc-MIBI. Sensitivity for identification of diseased vessels by 201TI was 68% for LAD, 89% for RCA, and 80% for LCX as opposed to 75%, 89% and 80%, respectively, by 99mTc-MIBI. Specificity was 93% in both cases for LAD, 73% and 63% for RCA, and 53% and 46% for LCX.
Thallium-201 scintigraphy in differentiated thyroid cancer: comparison with radioiodine scintigraphy and serum thyroglobulin determinations.	The role of thallium-201 (201TI) scintigraphy in the follow-up evaluation of differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) is controversial. Desirable characteristics of 201TI scintigraphy including the potential for no thyroid hormone withdrawal, immediate imaging postinjection, and low radiation burden relative to iodine-131 (131I) suggests it is logistically superior to 131I scintigraphy. Fifty-two patients with DTC were evaluated with 201TI and 131I neck and chest images, and serum thyroglobulin measurements. In post-thyroidectomy and pre-131I ablation therapy patients, very little 201TI accumulation was noted within the thyroid bed, with discordantly increased 131I activity and normal serum thyroglobulin measurements. Twenty-nine percent of patients evaluated after 131I ablative therapy had elevated serum thyroglobulin levels and localized neck and chest abnormalities on 201TI scan that were not seen on 131I studies. Our data suggest that 201TI is more sensitive than 131I diagnostic (5 mCi) studies for detection of DTC, while 131I is more sensitive in detecting normal residual thyroid tissue postoperatively.
Comparison of myocardial imaging with iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl pentadecanoic acid and thallium-201-chloride for assessment of patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.	Iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl-pentadecanoic acid [( 123I]MPDA) and thallium-201 (201Tl) were sequentially injected in 11 patients during exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Simultaneous dual-energy planar images were obtained at 5 min, 3 and 5 hr. All studies were concordantly either positive (8/11) or negative (3/11) by both radionuclides. Exact agreement for segmental uptake was 93%, 94% and 94% for 5-min, 3- and 5-hr images, respectively. Exact agreement for defect reversibility by 3 and 5 hr were 95% and 92%. The initial defect contrasts and myocardial-to-lung ratios were similar by both agents but myocardial-to-liver ratio was lower by [123I]MPDA at 5 min, which became similar to 201Tl at 5 hr. Normal percent myocardial clearances of both agents were comparable and significantly higher than those in defect zones. Thus [123I]MPDA is suitable for myocardial imaging and correlates closely with 201Tl for initial postexercise myocardial uptake and defect reversibility. Defect reversibility appears to result from differential myocardial clearance from normal and ischemic regions.
Comparison of coronary angiographic features and oral dipyridamole thallium 201 tomography.	Coronary angiography and left ventriculography is commonly used to identify those patients with incomplete infarctions and therefore, a need for revascularization. The authors compared coronary angiography and left ventriculography with thallium 201 tomography using oral dipyridamole to identify patients with potential ischemia in the infarct zone indicating viable tissue. Forty-five patients (37 men, 8 women) with acute myocardial infarctions (29 anterior, 16 inferior) who received intravenous thrombolytic therapy were studied. On the basis of the left ventriculograms, only 16 patients were judged to have residual function in the infarct zone. Six of these patients had no thallium redistribution in the infarct zone, indicating lack of residual ischemia. Of the 29 patients with no residual function in the infarct zone, 18 had redistribution in the infarct zone, suggesting residual ischemic myocardium and thus viable tissue. Among the 32 patients with open infarct vessels, 15 had no redistribution in the infarct zone, but of the remaining 13 patients with occluded infarct vessels, 9 had redistribution in the infarct zone indicating residual ischemia and thus viable tissue. The authors' data suggest that neither wall motion analysis by left ventriculography nor the angiographic status of the infarct vessel identifies those patients with residual ischemia as evidenced by thallium tomography using oral dipyridamole.
Thallium scintigraphy in human transplants: a way to detect myocardial damage.	An original index has been derived from thallium images to detect histopathologic changes in heart transplant patients. One hundred eighty-four static and end-diastolic images with thallium were recorded 5 minutes after injection in the left anterior oblique projection. Twenty patients and 14 healthy volunteers were studied. The epicardial and endocardial borders were determined, and the difference of these values was considered the myocardial area. The results in heart transplants were compared with the results of endomyocardial biopsies (N = 142). A significant decrease (p less than 0.01) was found in the index of the myocardial area between normal biopsy results and mild and moderate rejection. Differences were not detected between studies performed in several postoperative periods in the absence of rejection. The results in healthy volunteers prove that the index does not change between studies performed at different times in the same subject, although the value obtained from the end-diastolic image was more constant. On the basis of these results, it is possible to suggest that the decrease in the myocardial area during rejection is the result of a fall of thallium uptake by the myocardium. Capillary endothelial hyperplasia, perivascular infiltration, and myocytolysis can justify these changes, although the presence of other histologic findings, such as intramyocardial edema, could influence the value of this index. We conclude that the uptake of thallium decreases during acute rejection episodes; the results obtained from the images, in this work, are an expression of this event.
Prognostic value of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with unstable angina who respond to medical treatment.	Although the prognostic value of thallium-201 imaging is well established, its ability to risk stratify patients who present with unstable angina is unclear. Fifty-two consecutive patients admitted with unstable angina who responded to medical treatment and underwent stress thallium-201 imaging within 1 week of discharge were studied. Patients were followed up for 39 +/- 11 months. Cardiac events included cardiac death (n = 3), nonfatal myocardial infarction (n = 4) and admission for unstable angina or revascularization (n = 17). The ability of thallium-201 data (redistribution, fixed defects, normal) to predict cardiac events was compared with clinical data (age, gender, prior myocardial infarction, anginal syndrome, rest and stress electrocardiogram) and cardiac catheterization data using logistic regression. Thallium-201 redistribution was the only significant predictor of cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05). The number of myocardial segments with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.0005) and a history of prior myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05) were the only significant predictors of all cardiac events. Cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (6 [26%] of 23) than in those without redistribution (1 [3%] of 29, p less than 0.05). Similarly, total cardiac events developed more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.001). Stress thallium-201 imaging has important prognostic value in patients admitted with unstable angina who respond to medical therapy and can identify subgroups at high versus low risk for future cardiac events.
Advances in noninvasive detection of CAD.	Advances in the noninvasive detection of myocardial ischemia are increasing our ability to diagnose coronary artery disease (CAD). Tomographic (SPECT) thallium imaging provides better identification of coronary arteries with atherosclerotic narrowing. Increased lung thallium uptake and transient ischemic dilatation of the heart are additional markers of severe CAD. Late thallium imaging, as well as reinjection imaging, provides more accurate identification of myocardial ischemia. Finally, new myocardial ischemia. Finally, new myocardial imaging agents, such as technetium Tc 99m sestamibi (Cardiolite), should improve detection of CAD by noninvasive methods.
Nuclear medical methods in cardiology]	201-Thallium scintigraphy and radionuclide ventriculography with 99m-Technetium are the two most important nuclear imaging techniques in clinical cardiology. The sensitivity and specificity of tomographic Thallium scintigraphy for detection of coronary heart disease is about 90%. Radionuclide ventriculography may be used to describe systolic and diastolic function of the left and right ventricles with results comparable to those of angiographic studies. Both methods are non-invasive and feasible during exercise. These methods provide important information on myocardial ischaemia and cardiac function which may be difficult to obtain by other methods. In county hospitals with no equipment for invasive studies these methods provide important diagnostic and prognostic information. In the university hospitals, however, the techniques are of a more supportive nature and may help the clinician to select appropriate treatment.
Clinical efficacy of PTCA and identification of restenosis: evaluation by serial body surface potential mapping.	We used serial body surface potential mapping (BSPM) with the departure map technique to evaluate the clinical efficacy of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in various pathophysiologic stages of coronary artery disease, and to detect restenosis. The BSPM was performed prior to, 1 week after, and 1 month after PTCA. A follow-up coronary angiography was performed 3 to 6 months after PTCA, and BSPM was also performed at the same time. The results of BSPM were compared with those of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (Tl-201 SPECT) and radionuclide ventriculography. After PTCA, BSPM showed a significant reduction in the departure area, the Tl-201 SPECT also showed a significant reduction in the extent and severity scores, and the left ventricular ejection fraction improved significantly. In the cases with restenosis, the departure area, which had decreased in size after PTCA, showed an increase in size. After successful re-PTCA, the size of the departure area again became smaller. We concluded that BSPM, which is a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive method, is useful in the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of PTCA and in the detection of restenosis after successful PTCA.
Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy during maximal coronary artery vasodilation with adenosine.	Pharmacologic coronary vasodilation as an adjunct to thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy provides an important alternative form of stress that has been increasingly used in patients unable to perform an exercise stress test. Although dipyridamole has traditionally been used for this purpose, there are several compelling reasons why adenosine may be a preferable agent. First, dipyridamole acts by blocking the reuptake and transport of adenosine, which is the effective substance responsible for coronary vasodilation. Second, exogenous adenosine has a very short half-life (less than 2 seconds), which explains its very short duration of action as well as the brief, self-limiting duration of its side effects. Third, the adenosine infusion is controllable and may be increased or decreased as desired. Fourth, the coronary vasodilation induced by the doses of adenosine we recommend (140 micrograms/kg/min) may be more profound than that induced by the standard dipyridamole dose. Our experience to date, with nearly 1,000 patients studied, shows the adenosine thallium-201 test to be practical and well tolerated, with high sensitivity (87%) and specificity (94%) for detecting coronary artery disease.
Exercise thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy in the assessment of coronary artery disease.	Exercise thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy has been used extensively over the last decade for the detection and localization of coronary artery disease. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a refinement of presently available techniques, offering improved identification over planar imaging of individual vessel stenosis and quantification of the extent of abnormally perfused myocardium. In this review, the planar and SPECT techniques are discussed in light of the most recently published large patient series, and with regard to the many factors that affect the sensitivity and specificity of perfusion imaging in identifying coronary artery disease. The clinical implications of exercise perfusion scintigraphy and its future applications in cardiology practice are discussed.
Assessment of coronary artery disease using single-photon emission computed tomography with thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia.	Thallium-201 myocardial imaging during dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia has been an accepted method for diagnosing coronary artery disease (CAD) and risk stratification. Adenosine is a powerful short-acting coronary vasodilator. Initial results of thallium imaging during adenosine infusion have been encouraging. In 132 patients with CAD and in 16 patients with normal coronary angiograms, adenosine was given intravenously at a dose of 0.14 mg/kg/min for 6 minutes and thallium-201 was injected at 3 minutes. The thallium images using single-photon emission computed tomography were abnormal in 47 of the 54 patients (87%) with 1-vessel, in 34 of 37 patients (92%) with 2-vessel and in 40 of 41 patients (98%) with 3-vessel CAD. The sensitivity was 92% in the 132 patients with CAD (95% confidence intervals, 86 to 96%). In patients with normal coronary angiograms, 14 of 16 patients had normal thallium images (specificity, 88%; 95% confidence intervals, 59 to 100%). The results were very similar when subgroups of patients were analyzed: those without prior myocardial infarction, elderly patients and women. The nature of the perfusion defects (fixed or reversible) was assessed in relation to whether the 4-hour delayed images were obtained with or without the reinjection technique. In patients who underwent conventional delayed imaging, there were more fixed perfusion defects than in patients with reinjection delayed imaging (16 vs 0%, p less than 0.0001). The adverse effects were mild, transient and well tolerated. Thus, adenosine thallium tomographic imaging provides a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of CAD. The use of the reinjection technique enhances the ability to detect reversible defects.
Functional tests for myocardial ischemia.	Functional tests for myocardial ischemia are numerous. Most depend upon a combination of either exercise or pharmacologic intervention with analysis of the electrocardiogram, of regional perfusion with radionuclide imaging, or of regional wall motion with radionuclide imaging or echocardiography. While each test has unique features, especially at the research level, they are generally quite similar in clinical practice, so the clinician is advised to concentrate on one or two in which local expertise is high.
Scintigraphic localization of ectopic parathyroid lesions with thallium-201.	Six consecutive patients with ectopic parathyroid lesions were studied by preoperative thallium-technetium scintigraphy. Ectopic lesions were accurately localized in 5 of 6 patients. Four of five lesions deep in the superior mediastinum, and 1 in the superior carotid sheath, were correctly identified. Ectopic lesions in 4 of 5 patients, who had previously undergone unsuccessful exploration, were correctly localized. In 1 previously unoperated patient, a mediastinal lesion was identified by preoperative scintigraphy. In 2 patients, deep mediastinal exploration via manubriotomy was successfully conducted without confirmation by "invasive" intravascular procedures. There were no false-positive studies. Lesions identified weighed from 185 mg to 9 g and were from 1.1 to 3.0 cm in size. Scintigraphy is particularly effective for demonstration of ectopic parathyroid tissue, because the absence of thyroid tissue in the mediastinum or superior cervical region permits appreciation of areas of abnormal thallium uptake unobscured by uptake in adjacent thyroid tissue. We conclude that ectopic parathyroid tissue may be accurately identified by thallium-technetium scintigraphy without confirmation by invasive intravascular studies.
Significance of U wave polarities in previous anterior myocardial infarction.	The significance of the polarity of U waves in left precordial leads was evaluated in relation to myocardial perfusion (T1 201 myocardial scintigraphy) and left ventricular function (99m Tc radionuclide ventriculography) in 63 patients with clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of a previous anterior myocardial infarction. Patients were divided into three groups according to the polarity of the U waves: positive U waves, flat U waves, and negative U waves. Twelve matched patients served as normal controls. The following parameters were analyzed: (1) total number of abnormal Q waves; (2) total myocardial perfusion index and regional myocardial perfusion index; (3) global ejection fraction; (4) regional ejection fraction; and (5) number of diseased coronary arteries. The total myocardial perfusion index values were 43.9 +/- 1.0 in controls, 40.8 +/- 3.4 in the positive U wave group, 33.4 +/- 3.5 in the flat U wave group, and 30.3 +/- 4.4 in the patients with negative U waves. Global ejection fractions in these groups were, respectively, 63.9 +/- 8.6%, 65.0 +/- 11.8%, 53.6 +/- 8.1%, and 36.5 +/- 13.6%. The sensitivity of negative U waves suggesting a global ejection fraction of less than 45% was 91.6%, and the specificity was 82.1%. Therefore the size of myocardial infarction increased and left ventricular function decreased, in order, from patients with positive U waves, to those with flat U waves, to those with negative U waves, with statistically significant differences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Discordance of visual and quantitative analysis regarding false negative and false positive test results in thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.	Visual assessment and quantitative analysis of exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy was performed in 203 consecutive patients who underwent coronary arteriographic studies to identify the factors associated with false negative and false positive studies. Also the discordance between visual and quantitative analysis was evaluated. One hundred sixty-two (80%) of these 203 patients had significant coronary artery disease (CAD), i.e. a luminal stenosis greater than or equal to 50%. Fifty-two (32%) of these 162 patients with documented CAD showed negative thallium results either by visual or quantitative analysis. When interpreted visually 36/162 (22%) of patients were judged as negative, and when analyzed quantitatively 41/162 (25%) of patients were judged as negative (ns). Of the total group of 52 patients with false negative visual and/or quantitative analysis test results, 27 (17%) showed discordance between these two methods. Of the 41 patients without significant CAD, 12 (29%) showed positive thallium findings. Visual interpretation was positive in 9/41 (22%) of patients without significant CAD, and quantitative analysis in 5/41 (12%) (ns). Of the total group of 12 patients with positive visual and/or quantitative analysis test results, 10 (24%) showed discordance between these two methods. Therefore, in the total group, 37 patients (18%) showed discordance between visual and quantitative analysis. It is concluded that 1) the sensitivity and the specificity of visual interpretation and quantitative analysis of thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy for detecting CAD is similar, and 2) that there is frequent discordance of visual interpretation and quantitative analysis in thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy.
Upward creep of the heart in exercise thallium 201 single photon emission tomography: clinical relevance and a simple correction method.	The upward creep of the heart during myocardial single photon emission tomography (SPET) acquisition has been reported as a frequent source of false-positive results. The aim of this study was to simplify the detection and correction of this upward creep and to estimate its clinical relevance during routine patient care. To recognize the upward heart motion a straight line was fitted to the upper and lower border of consecutively displayed tomographic projection images. In this way, vertical translation of at least 1 pixel in size could be detected easily. On the assumption of a slow but continuous upward motion a fast interpolation correction method was developed. From 100 consecutive, supine, ergometric exercise studies, 1, 2 or 3 pixels of upward creep were found in 16, 4 or 3 patients, respectively. It was found that an upward creep of at least 2 pixels (7/100 cases) led to evident, mostly antero-septal defects on quantitative bull's-eyes, whereas only upward creeps of 3 pixels or more (3/100 cases) produced false-positive diagnostic results. The simple correction method offered a sufficient compensation of image and/or bull's-eye artefacts. These clinical findings could be reproduced in a computer model. Thus, it can be stated that clinically significant upward creep of the heart during stress SPET acquisition is relatively rare; it may have been overestimated in the past, and its artificial effects can be corrected by a quick and simple algorithm.
Effects of nicardipine in silent myocardial ischemia]	201Tl myocardial scintigraphy was performed in 29 patients with coronary heart diseases and silent myocardial ischemic episodes revealed during a long-term monitoring of ST segment. The painless ST segment depression episodes and long high-amplitude painless ST segment elevations were found to be indicative of a significant severity of pathological processes in the myocardium. A 12-day nicardipine monotherapy produced antianginal and hypotensive effects and contributed to decrease in the frequency, duration, and amplitude of silent ST-segment depressions and in the duration of silent ST-segment elevations.
Comparison of rubidium-82 positron emission tomography and thallium-201 SPECT imaging for detection of coronary artery disease.	The diagnostic performance of rubidium-82 (Rb-82) positron emission tomography (PET) and thallium-201 (Tl-201) single-photon emission-computed tomography (SPECT) for detecting coronary artery disease was investigated in 81 patients (52 men, 29 women). PET studies using 60 mCi of Rb-82 were performed at baseline and after intravenous infusion of 0.56 mg/kg dipyridamole in conjunction with handgrip stress. Tl-201 SPECT was performed after dipyridamole-handgrip stress and, in a subset of patients, after treadmill exercise. Sensitivity, specificity and overall diagnostic accuracy were assessed using both visually and quantitatively interpreted coronary angiograms. The overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of PET for detection of coronary artery disease (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) were 84, 88 and 85%, respectively. In comparison, the performance of SPECT revealed a sensitivity of 84%, specificity of 53% (p less than 0.05 vs PET) and accuracy of 79%. Similar results were obtained using either visual or quantitative angiographic criteria for severity of coronary artery disease. In 43 patients without prior myocardial infarction, the sensitivity for detection of disease was 71 and 73%, respectively, similar for both PET and SPECT. There was no significant difference in diagnostic performance between imaging modalities when 2 different modes of stress (exercise treadmill vs intravenous dipyridamole plus handgrip) were used with SPECT imaging. Thus, Rb-82 PET provides improved specificity compared with Tl-201 SPECT for identifying coronary artery disease, most likely due to the higher photon energy of Rb-82 and attenuation correction provided by PET. However, post-test referral cannot be entirely excluded as a potential explanation for the lower specificity of Tl-201 SPECT.
Myocardial perfusion as assessed by thallium-201 scintigraphy during the discontinuation of mechanical ventilation in ventilator-dependent patients.	Patients who cannot be separated from mechanical ventilation (MV) after an episode of acute respiratory failure often have coexisting coronary artery disease. The authors hypothesized that increased left ventricular (LV) wall stress during periods of spontaneous ventilation (SV) could alter myocardial perfusion in these patients. Using thallium-201 (201TI) myocardial scintigraphy, the authors studied the occurrence of myocardial perfusion abnormalities during periods of SV in 15 MV-dependent patients (nine women, six men; aged 71 +/- 7 yr, mean +/- SD). Fourteen of these patients were studied once with 201TI myocardial scintigraphy during intermittent mechanical ventilation (IMV) and again on another day, after at least 10 min of SV through a T-piece. One patient was studied during SV only. Thirteen of 14 of the patients (93%) studied during MV had abnormal patterns of initial myocardial 201TI uptake, but only 1 patient demonstrated redistribution of 201TI on delayed images. The remainder of the abnormalities observed during MV were fixed defects. SV produced significant alterations of myocardial 201TI distribution or transient LV dilation, or both, in 7 of the 15 patients (47%). Four patients demonstrated new regional decreases of LV myocardial thallium concentration with redistribution of the isotope on delayed images. The patient studied only during SV also had myocardial 201TI defects with redistribution. Five patients (3 also having areas of 201TI redistribution) had transient LV dilation during SV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A comparative study between a new, 50-degree right-semidecubital scanning and usual supine scanning of thallium-201 myocardial tomography for evaluation of coronary artery disease.	Images of thallium-201 cardiac tomography in the 50-degree right-lateral-semidecubital vs. usual supine positions were compared after a single dose of the isotope in 225 patients with or suspected of coronary artery diseases. Compared with the supine position method, the semidecubital position method enabled 25% shortening of the orbital radius (20.0 +/- 0.9 cm to 15.3 +/- 0.6 cm, n = 174, p less than 0.05), higher posteroinferior wall counts in both exercise and 3-hour-delayed images by up to 18%, better image sharpness and contrast, less motion artifact, more marked redistribution in the ischemic walls, and significantly higher specificity (57% vs. 78%, p less than 0.05) and accuracy (63% vs. 79%, p less than 0.05) for inferior wall lesions. The results indicate that the thallium cardiac scan is significantly affected by patient position during scanning, i.e., artifactual inferior wall defects due to photon attenuation in the supine position method. The semidecubital position method is recommended to minimize this artifact. The method is simple, easy to perform, well tolerated, feasible in any 1-headed tomography system, inexpensive, and free of running costs.
Detection of adriamycin cardiotoxicity with indium-111 labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody imaging.	Myocardial imaging with indium-111 labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody (antimyosin imaging) has been reported to be useful in the noninvasive detection of myocardial cell necrosis in dilated cardiomyopathy as well as in myocardial infarction and myocarditis. We used antimyosin imaging to detect myocardial damage in 2 patients with malignant lymphoma in whom adriamycin cardiotoxicity was suspected. Patients were injected with 74 MBq of indium-111 labeled antimyosin (Fab. fraction). Forty-eight hours later, planar imaging and single-photon emission computed tomography were performed using a gamma camera with a medium energy general purpose collimator. Antimyosin imaging demonstrated diffuse myocardial uptake not only in one patient with congestive heart failure but also in another patient at the early stage without congestive heart failure. Antimyosin imaging may be a sensitive method for noninvasive visualization of myocardial cell damage and useful in the early diagnosis of specific heart muscle disease.
Reliability of the exercise ECG in detecting silent ischemia in patients with prior myocardial infarction]	To assess the reliability of the exercise ECG in detecting silent ischemia, ECG results were compared with those of stress-redistribution thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in 116 patients with prior myocardial infarction and in 20 normal subjects used as a control. The LV was divided into 20 segmental images, which were scored blindly on a 5-point scale. The redistribution score was defined as thallium defect score of exercise subtracted by that of redistribution image and was used as a measure of amount of ischemic but viable myocardium. The upper limit of normal redistribution score (= 4.32) was defined as mean +2 standard deviations derived from 20 normal subjects. Of 116 patients, 47 had the redistribution score above the normal range. Twenty-five (53%) of the 47 patients showed positive ECG response. Fourteen (20%) of the 69 patients, who had the normal redistribution score, showed positive ECG response. Thus, the ECG response had a sensitivity of 53% and a specificity of 80% in detecting transient ischemia. Furthermore, the 116 patients were subdivided into 4 groups according to the presence or absence of chest pain and ECG change during exercise. Fourteen patients showed both chest pain and ECG change and all these patients had the redistribution score above the normal range. Twenty-five patients showed ECG change without chest pain and 11 (44%) of the 25 patients had the abnormal redistribution. Three (43%) of 7 patients who showed chest pain without ECG change had the abnormal redistribution score. Of 70 patients who had neither chest pain nor ECG change, 19 (27%) had the redistribution score above the normal range. Thus, limitations exist in detecting silent ischemia by ECG in patients with a prior myocardial infarction, because the ECG response to the exercise test may have a low degree of sensitivity and a high degree of false positive and false negative results in detecting silent ischemia.
201Tl-reverse redistribution in a case with stunned myocardium]	A 58-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of chest pain. Electrocardiogram showed giant negative T waves in leads I, II, III, aVl, aVf and V2 through V6. Echocardiogram showed anterior wall motion abnormality. Rest-redistribution thallium scan obtained 3 days after admission revealed reverse redistribution in antero-apical area. Coronary angiogram showed no significant stenotic lesions and left ventriculogram in chronic stage showed improvement of wall motion abnormality. Repeat thallium scan in chronic stage showed disappearance of perfusion defect in apical area. It was difficult to diagnose myocardial viability in our case with stunned myocardium because rest-redistribution thallium scan showed reverse redistribution. As the mechanism of this finding, early coronary recanalization in acute stage of the event was suspected.
MRI measurements of left ventricular systolic wall thickening compared to regional myocardial perfusion as determined by 201Tl SPECT in patients with coronary artery disease.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the left ventricle (LV) is an excellent method of measuring systolic wall thickening (SWT). The aim of the present study was (a) to describe a new approach for measurement of SWT and (b) to define the relationship between SWT and regional myocardial perfusion as determined by 201Tl SPECT. 79 patients -51 with and 28 without history of earlier myocardial infarction - underwent SPECT and, within the next two weeks. MRI. End-diastolic and end-systolic spin echo images were obtained by a reduced permutation technique. For MRI measurements, only long-axis sections through the LV in the equatorial plane were used. Slice orientation was selected according to the findings of SPECT, imaging the infarcted wall segment by single or double angulation. At 7 equidistant points around the LV wall SWT was measured and compared with the corresponding regional myocardial uptake values from SPECT in percent of maximal perfusion. Wall thickness of the anterior wall was normal. Because the majority of myocardial infarctions were posterior-inferior (55%), thickness of the posterior wall was markedly decreased. A close relationship of perfusion to SWT was found. Higher perfusion areas (greater than 50% of maximal TI uptake) corresponded with normal SWT (greater than 3.0 mm), a marked decrease of SWT (less than 1 mm) was found in areas with perfusion deficits (less than 40%). Thus, a 201TI uptake value at rest of 41-50% of the respective myocardial maximum acts as a threshold by discriminating normal from severely reduced SWT.
Novel methodology for the detection of exercise-induced myocardial wall motion abnormalities by surface electrocardiogram during exercise test.	We investigated whether ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities during exercise test modify electrical vector variation.
MRI and thallium-201 SPECT in the prediction of survival in glioma.	This paper aims to study the value of MRI and Thallium 201 ((201)Tl) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the prediction of overall survival (OS) in glioma patients treated with temozolomide (TMZ) and to evaluate timing of radiological follow-up.
Thallium-201 for cardiac stress tests: residual radioactivity worries patients and security.	A 47-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department (ED) in duress and stated he was "highly radioactive." There were no reports of nuclear disasters, spills, or mishaps in the local area.
Influence of attenuation correction on transient left ventricular dilation in dual isotope myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease.	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of attenuation correction (AC) on left ventricular (LV) volumes and LV transient ischemic dilatation (TID) during dual-isotope single-photon emission computer tomographic (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). Ninety-six patients (mean age 58  11 years, 15% women, 38 patients completed exercise and 58 dipyridamole pharmacologic stress tests) assessed for known or suspected coronary artery disease underwent dual-isotope thallium-201 rest and technetium-99m sestamibi stress SPECT MPI with computed tomography-based AC. The TID ratio was calculated separately for non-AC and AC SPECT MPI studies as the ratio of the LV endocardial volume at stress divided by LV endocardial volume at rest. The mean and range of the gated LV ejection fraction during exercise and pharmacologic stress was 54  12% (29% to 80%) and 58  12% (27% to 80%), respectively. In the exercise stress group, the same mean LV endocardial volumes in non-AC and AC stress (76.4  30 and 76.5  28) and rest (66.3  26 and 66.4  24) studies were found (p = 0.90). There was no statistical difference between the mean exercise TID ratio in non-AC and AC studies (1.27 vs 1.31, respectively, p = 0.10). The same mean LV endocardial volumes in non-AC and AC in pharmacologic stress (79.9  42 and 80  41) and rest (71.4  41 and 72.3  37), respectively, were found (p = 0.50). There was no statistical difference between the mean dipyridamole TID ratio in non-AC and AC studies (1.20 vs 1.17, respectively, p = 0.10). In conclusion, LV volumes and TID indexes obtained on SPECT MPI with exercise or pharmacologic stress using dipyridamole are not affected by AC.
SPECT and PET imaging of meningiomas.	Meningiomas arise from the meningothelial cells of the arachnoid membranes. They are the most common primary intracranial neoplasms and represent about 20% of all intracranial tumors. They are usually diagnosed after the third decade of life and they are more frequent in women than in men. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, meningiomas can be classified into grade I meningiomas, which are benign, grade II (atypical) and grade III (anaplastic) meningiomas, which have a much more aggressive clinical behaviour. Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are routinely used in the diagnostic workup of patients with meningiomas. Molecular Nuclear Medicine Imaging with Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) could provide complementary information to CT and MRI. Various SPECT and PET tracers may provide information about cellular processes and biological characteristics of meningiomas. Therefore, SPECT and PET imaging could be used for the preoperative noninvasive diagnosis and differential diagnosis of meningiomas, prediction of tumor grade and tumor recurrence, response to treatment, target volume delineation for radiation therapy planning, and distinction between residual or recurrent tumour from scar tissue.
Different types of 199Tl chloride scintigraphic visualization of malignant tumors of the locomotor apparatus]	201Tl chloride scintigraphy allows malignant tumors of the locomotor apparatus to be diagnosed. The capacities of scintigraphy with 199Tl chloride, a 201Tl chloride analog, in addition to routine visualization of malignant tumors of the locomotor apparatus, have revealed its untypical variants.
Comparison of the myocardial uptake of a technetium-labeled isonitrile analogue and thallium.	The myocardial transmicrovascular transport of thallium-201 (201Tl) and technetium-99m hexakis(2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile) (MIBI) were compared during variable blood flow levels in nine blood-perfused, isolated rabbit hearts. Seventeen injections of radiolabeled albumin and EDTA as well as 201Tl and MIBI were performed by indicator-dilution techniques. When coronary flow was varied from 0.52 to 3.19 ml/g/min, myocardial extraction for MIBI averaged 0.38 +/- 0.09 (SD) whereas 201Tl myocardial extraction averaged 0.73 +/- 0.10 (p less than 0.001). Net extraction, which was calculated using end points of 1.8-4.9 minutes, averaged 0.41 +/- 0.15 for MIBI and was less than the 201Tl net extraction of 0.57 +/- 0.13 (p less than 0.001). The mean capillary permeability-surface area product for MIBI (0.44 +/- 0.13 ml/g/min) was one third of 201Tl (1.30 +/- 0.45 ml/g/min; p less than 0.001). However, parenchymal cell permeability-surface area product for MIBI (47.58 +/- 25.85 ml/g/min) was much higher than 201Tl (6.52 +/- 6.51 ml/g/min; p less than 0.0001), and apparent cellular volume of distribution for MIBI (15.15 +/- 3.31 ml/g) was also higher than 201Tl (10.19 +/- 4.00 ml/g; p less than 0.01). These data suggest that capillary permeability for 201Tl is greater than MIBI, but the reverse is true at the parenchymal cell wall. In addition, a new blood-perfused preparation is used for indicator-dilution techniques, and previously developed modeling analyses are also extended to these experiments.
Clinical comparison between thallium-201 and Tc-99m-methoxy isobutyl isonitrile (hexamibi) myocardial perfusion imaging for detection of coronary artery disease.	99mTc-hexamibi (methoxy isobutyl isonitrile) is a new 99mTc-hexakis analog that can be used as a myocardial perfusion imaging agent. The purposes of this study were to compare 99mTc-hexamibi to 201Tl-thallous chloride myocardial stress scintigraphy in patients referred for investigation of chest pain and to evaluate the sensitivity of 99mTc-hexamibi in detection of coronary artery disease. One hundred patients were prospectively studied with both 201Tl and 99mTc-hexamibi planar imaging. Sixty five patients had a current coronary angiography. There was a total of 97 significantly (less than or equal to 70%) stenosed major coronary arteries. 99mTc-hexamibi (25 mCi) study was done within a week of the 201Tl scan with similar double products upon standard treadmil stress testing. Rest studies with 99mTc-hexamibi were obtained 24-48 h after the stress test using the same acquisition parameters and dose. Analysis was performed blind by three observers. The left ventricle was divided into five segments in each image. Analysis of 201Tl and 99mTc-hexamibi results in 1500 left ventricle segments showed an overall agreement in 1326/1500 (88.4%) segments. Correlation between the patient diagnosis on the 201Tl and 99mTc-hexamibi studies showed an agreement in 89 patients (89%). 201Tl revealed myocardial uptake defects in 526 segments, detecting 72 out of 97 (74.2%) significantly stenosed coronary arteries and 99mTc-hexamibi detected 513 segments corresponding to 68 (70.1%) stenosed arteries (no significant statistical difference). In conclusion, these results show a good correlation between 201Tl and 99mTc-hexamibi myocardial imaging in the detection of significant coronary artery disease.
Comparison of hypoxia and ouabain effects on the myocardial uptake kinetics of technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile and thallium-201.	Effects of hypoxia and ouabain on transcapillary exchange of [99mTc]hexakis (2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile) [SESTAMIBI, also known as MIBI or HEXAMIBI] and 201TI were investigated with indicator-dilution studies using isolated rabbit hearts. Peak myocardial extraction (Emax), permeability-surface area products (PScap), and net myocardial extraction (Enet) were compared among serial injections during constant coronary flows. Overall, measures of transcapillary transport (Emax and PScap) for SESTAMIBI were significantly lower (p less than 0.001) than those simultaneously determined for thallium, but estimates of tissue retention (Enet) for SESTAMIBI and thallium were not statistically distinguishable. Hypoxia had no significant effect on mean (+/- s.d.) Emax for SESTAMIBI (0.31 +/- 0.13) or thallium (0.59 +/- 0.11), nor on mean PScap or Enet values. Ouabain (1.5 X 10(-7) M and 1.5 X 10(-6) M) had no effect on SESTAMIBI or thallium Emax (respectively, 0.29 +/- 0.08 and 0.60 +/- 0.05) or on PScap for SESTAMIBI. Thallium PScap was depressed with higher ouabain dose (control, 1.22 +/- 0.40; high ouabain, 1.06 +/- 0.41 ml/min/g; p less than 0.01). Ouabain also caused a significant and progressive increase in average SESTAMIBI Enet (control, 0.23 +/- 0.10 to high ouabain, 0.33 +/- 0.12; p less than 0.05), but depressed thallium Enet (control, 0.38 +/- 0.14 to high ouabain, 0.32 +/- 0.18; p less than 0.01). These results suggest myocardial metabolic and/or functional status have minor influence on transcapillary transport of SESTAMIBI and thallium, but significantly affects cellular retention.
Use of thallium-201 SPECT to quantitate malignancy grade of gliomas.	A quantitative preoperative technique using thallium-201 single-photon emission computerized tomography is described which predicts whether specific gliomas are of high- or low-grade malignancy. An index, based on the ratio of thallium uptake in the tumor versus the homologous contralateral brain, was calculated and compared with tumor histology. The index in 14 patients with low-grade malignant gliomas was 1.27 +/- 0.40 in contrast to an index of 2.40 +/- 0.61 in 11 patients with high-grade malignant gliomas (p less than 0.0005). Whether gliomas were of low- or high-grade malignancy could be predicted with 89% accuracy using a threshold of 1.5. Low-grade gliomas with an index higher than 1.5 acted biologically more like high-grade tumors, and no tumor histologically classified as being of high-grade malignancy had an index lower than 1.7. This technique could help to reduce unrecognized sampling errors during needle biopsies of brain tumors, particularly of high-grade lesions classified in error as low-grade tumors due to inadequate biopsy material.
Cold-induced reversible myocardial ischaemia in systemic sclerosis.	The effect of cold provocation on myocardial perfusion was studied in 21 patients with systemic sclerosis and 8 healthy controls. The cold provocation was designed not to cause a pain reaction, and no rise in heart rate/blood pressure product occurred during provocation. Myocardial perfusion was assessed by measurement of thallium uptake by imaged single photon emission computed tomography. No patient had clinical evidence of cardiac involvement, but abnormal electrocardiographic (ECG) findings were found in 5. In 12 patients cold-induced reversible perfusion defects were found; 9 of these also had permanent defects. A further 3 patients had permanent perfusion defects but no reversible defects. The permanent and/or reversible perfusion defects were not related to age among the patients and were not seen in any of the healthy controls, whose age distribution was similar. The reversible and permanent defects were not related to other features of systemic sclerosis, nor to the ECG findings. It is concluded that abnormalities in myocardial perfusion are common in systemic sclerosis and may be present without apparent clinical myocardial involvement. A cold-induced vasopastic process in the myocardial circulation might contribute to the development of the patchy myocardial fibrosis seen in patients with systemic sclerosis.
Comparative analysis of the diagnostic and prognostic value of exercise ECG and thallium-201 scintigraphic markers of myocardial ischemia in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients.	A considerable amount of data now exists that indicates that exercise ECG--due to its suboptimal sensitivity and specificity--has limited diagnostic and prognostic value in asymptomatic subjects, patients with chest pain of unclear etiology or those with chronic stable angina pectoris, and in patients recovering from acute myocardial infarction. Because of this and the well-recognized advantages of thallium-201 scintigraphy, there appears to be a strong rationale for recommending exercise perfusion imaging, rather than exercise ECG alone, as the preferred method for detecting CAD and staging its severity. This recommendation seems justified given the fact that (1) thallium-201 scintigraphy is far more sensitive and specific in detecting myocardial ischemia than exercise testing; (2) unlike stress ECG, thallium-201 scintigraphy can localize ischemia to a specific area of areas subtended by a specific coronary artery; and (3) thallium-201 scintigraphy has been shown to be more reliable to risk stratification of individual patients than exercise testing alone. The more optimal prognostic efficiency of thallium-201 scintigraphy is due, in part, to the fact that the error rate in falsely classifying patients as low-risk is substantially and significantly smaller with thallium-201 scintigraphy than with stress ECG.
Quantitative planar imaging with technetium-99m methoxyisobutyl isonitrile: comparison of uptake patterns with thallium-201.	To compare the myocardial uptake pattern of 99mTc-labeled methoxyisobutyl isonitrile [( 99mTc] MIBI) and 201TI, planar scintigraphy were performed in both patients with documented coronary artery disease and subjects with a low likelihood of disease. Quantitative analysis was employed using a standard interpolative background subtraction algorithm and a new algorithm modified to better accommodate for the differences in extracardiac activity seen with [99mTc]MIBI rest images. Among patients with coronary artery disease, the standard algorithm yielded no significant difference in relative defect magnitude between [99mTc]MIBI and 201TI on stress scintigrams (p = 0.48), although the magnitude of [99mTc]MIBI defects was greater on resting images (p = 0.02). When the modified algorithm was employed, defect magnitude was similar for both stress (p = 0.91) and rest (p = 0.20) images. Normal segmental uptake ratios derived from a comparison of contralateral segments (e.g., septal:posterolateral) in the low likelihood patients were similar for both [99mTc]MIBI and 201TI. Thus, modification of the standard interpolative background subtraction algorithm is necessary for quantitative planar [99mTc]MIBI perfusion imaging. When appropriate background subtraction is employed, myocardial uptake and quantitative defect magnitude of [99mTc]MIBI and 201TI planar images are similar.
Uptake of myocardial imaging agents by rejecting and nonrejecting cardiac transplants. A comparative clinical study of thallium-201, technetium-99m, and gallium-67.	To study the scintigraphic detectability of cardiac rejection, we performed 135 planar myocardial scans ([99mTc]pyrophosphate, 85; 201Tl, 36; 67Ga, 14) together with endomyocardial biopsies in ten patients for a (mean) 17-mo postoperative period. Specificity of each agent exceeded 89%. Technetium-99m pyrophosphate showed results that significantly correlated with the severity of rejection (p = 0.03), as shown by biopsy, but neither 201Tl nor 67Ga did so (p = 0.63 and 0.81, respectively). Technetium-99m pyrophosphate showed better diagnostic accuracy (85%) than 201Tl (69%) and 67Ga (64%). Technetium-99m pyrophosphate also showed higher negative predictive value (91%) than thallium (76%) and gallium (69%). Thus, a normal 99mTc pyrophosphate scan was usually associated with absence of cardiac rejection. However, all three agents showed unacceptably poor sensitivity (0% to 30%) and thus were not useful as a screening test for cardiac rejection, even when the same agent was used serially in imaging a given patient.
A look at 15 years of planar thallium-201 imaging.	Extensive experience has been accumulated over the past 15 years regarding planar thallium-201 imaging. Quantitation of technically superior images provides a high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of CAD. In addition, planar thallium-201 images provide very important prognostic information in different clinical situations. Although single photon emission computerized tomography offers potential theoretical advantages over planar imaging, because of the problems involved in reconstruction, specifically the creation of artifacts, it may not be the ideal imaging modality in all situations. Good quality planar thallium-201 imaging still has an important role in clinical cardiology today.
Nonexercise cardiac stress testing.	Many patients who require evaluation for coronary artery disease are unable to undergo exercise stress testing because of physiologic or psychological limitations. Drs Vacek and Baldwin describe three alternative methods for assessment of cardiac function in these patients, all of which have high levels of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity.
Thallium-201 imaging in anomalous left coronary artery originating from pulmonary trunk.	A 3-month-old infant with anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery (LMCA) from the pulmonary trunk was evaluated using resting thallium imaging. The imaging findings were consistent with myocardial scar and ischemia of the anterolateral and posterolateral walls in the distribution of the LMCA.
Comparison of thallium-201 images in dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy]	Comparison of thallium-201 image between 21 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and 12 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) was made in this study. All cases had abnormal thallium images. Multiple myocardial segments presenting with patchy pattern were seen in all 21 patients with DCM. 75.0% of patients with ICM also had patchy pattern on the thallium image, but the number of patchy pattern segments on image was significantly less in ICM than in DCM (P less than 0.001); complete defects on thallium image were noted in 75.0% of patients with ICM, however, only one case with DCM had complete defect on thallium scan (P less than 0.001). When the thallium image characterized by multiple patchy pattern segments without complete defects was used as a diagnostic criterion for DCM. 95.2% of patients with DCM coincide with the criterion. When the thallium image showing complete defect was used as a diagnostic criterion for ICM, 75.0% of patients with ICM coincide with the criterion. The characteristics of thallium-201 image are useful either for diagnosis of DCM and ICM or in differentiating DCM from ICM.
Hemodynamic and prognostic value of thallium-201 myocardial imaging in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.	We studied 70 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy to determine whether extent of perfusion defect on thallium imaging could be related to the hemodynamics and prognosis of the patients. Patients were divided into three groups according to the extent of perfusion defect, i.e., Grade I: no perfusion defect (n = 19), Grade II: apical perfusion defect (n = 22), and Grade III: extensive perfusion defect (n = 29). The patients of Grade III demonstrated marked hemodynamic deterioration compared with those of Grade I and II. Three-year survival rate showed lower value in proportion to the extent of perfusion defect (P less than 0.05). Death from progressive heart failure tended to occur in patients with extensive perfusion defect (P less than 0.05). In patients of Grade III, the perfusion defect extended mainly to the posterolateral segment. Although autopsy studies showed increased fibrosis in the left ventricular wall in these patients, the extension of the fibrosis was not related to that of fibrosis. Moreover, the perfusion defect had regressed in three of 18 patients in the follow-up examination. These results indicate that the extent of perfusion defect on thallium imaging may be of value in non-invasive evaluation and prediction of the prognosis in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Distribution of the perfusion defect was, however, not related to that of myocardial fibrosis.
The safety and diagnostic accuracy of dipyridamole-loading myocardial tomography with thallium-201 in the elderly with coronary artery disease]	To test the diagnostic accuracy and safety of dipyridamole-loading myocardial imaging with thallium-201 (T1) in the elderly, we performed myocardial tomography in 42 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). While monitoring of ECG and blood pressure, dipyridamole was infused at a rate of 0.57 mg/kg body weight over 4 minutes, and 4 minutes later T1 (3 mCi) was injected. Five minutes later (initial) and 3 hours after T1 injection (redistribution) myocardial images were obtained from 32 projections by a rotating gamma camera. After low-pass filtering, images were reconstructed into short-axis, horizontal long-axis and vertical long-axis tomograms. Myocardial T1 distribution both on initial and redistribution images and myocardial T1 washout rate's (WOR) of the entire left ventricle were expressed into two-dimensional polar maps by using short-axis cuts (bull's-eye maps). In addition to visual interpretation, abnormal WOR (less than 18%) was used as a criteria of dipyridamole induced myocardial ischemia. Patients were divided into 2 groups. Group I consisted of 24 patients more than 70 years of age and Group II consisted of 18 patients less than 65 years of age. The clinical and coronary angiographic characteristics of the two groups did not differ. The sensitivity of this method for the detection of CAD was identical (83%) between the 2 groups, and the detection of coronary artery stenosis was 73% in Group I and 74% in Group II (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term follow-up of thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy in acute myocardial infarction--clinical significance of reverse redistribution during acute period]	To clarify the viability of myocardium in acute myocardial infarction, we examined 18 patients scintigraphically. They underwent rest or stress imaging and delayed imaging of thallium-201 during acute, convalescent and chronic periods. During acute period, a scintigraphic finding of the delayed filling in was observed in 9 cases (50%; Redistribution group). Worsening of the delayed image was observed in 6 cases (33%; Reverse redistribution group). No scintigraphic change of the perfusion defect was observed in 3 cases (17%; No change group). In reverse redistribution group, a remarkable improvement of the delayed image was observed through acute, convalescent and chronic periods. In redistribution group and no change group, no significant improvement was observed. We conclude that the myocardium of the reverse redistribution region during acute period may be viable. In the reverse redistribution region, recanalization of the coronary artery possibly protects myocardial damage from necrosis.
A simplified approach for evaluating multiple test outcomes and multiple disease states in relation to the exercise thallium-201 stress test in suspected coronary artery disease.	This study describes a simplified approach for the interpretation of electrocardiographic and thallium-201 imaging data derived from the same patient during exercise. The 383 patients in this study had also undergone selective coronary arteriography within 3 months of the exercise test. This matrix approach allows for multiple test outcomes (both tests positive, both negative, 1 test positive and 1 negative) and multiple disease states (no coronary artery disease vs 1-vessel vs multivessel coronary artery disease). Because this approach analyzes the results of 2 test outcomes simultaneously rather than serially, it also negates the lack of test independence, if such an effect is present. It is also demonstrated that ST-segment depression on the electrocardiogram and defects on initial thallium-201 images provide conditionally independent information regarding the presence of coronary artery disease in patients without prior myocardial infarction. In contrast, ST-segment depression on the electrocardiogram and redistribution on the delayed thallium-201 images may not provide totally independent information regarding the presence of exercise-induced ischemia in patients with or without myocardial infarction.
Significance of positive or negative thallium-201 scintigraphy in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Myocardial ischemia, fibrosis and infarction may occur in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) in the absence of epicardial coronary artery disease. To determine their prevalence and relation with common characteristics, stress thallium-201 scintigraphy was performed in 28 patients. Eleven (39%) had positive scans despite normal epicardial coronary arteries (7 patients) or a pretest risk of coronary disease less than or equal to 5% (4 patients). There was no relation between thallium defects and age, sex, chest pain or outflow tract gradients at rest. However, the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was significantly lower in those with perfusion abnormalities compared with those without (64 +/- 15 vs 75 +/- 11%, respectively, p less than 0.05). Also, the mean ventricular septal thickness was greater in patients with positive scans (27 +/- 7 vs 21 +/- 6 mm, p less than 0.05), and there was a nonparametric relation between increasing septal thickness and the frequency of positive scans (p less than 0.025). Seven of 11 patients with positive scans had ventricular tachycardia compared with none among those who had negative scans (p less than 0.001), and 5 of these 11 patients had conduction system disease requiring permanent pacemaker insertion compared with 1 of 17 with negative scans (p less than 0.025). It is concluded that thallium perfusion abnormalities are common in patients with HC in the absence of epicardial coronary disease, and are strongly associated with potentially lethal arrhythmias. Thallium scintigraphy appears to identify a subset of patients with HC at increased risk for sudden death, who therefore require closer follow-up.
Improved detection of coronary artery disease by estimated myocardial thallium uptake.	Myocardial thallium uptake has been assessed at the time of thallium scanning in a group of 50 male patients undergoing coronary arteriography and 10 young healthy volunteers. The net thallium dose injected was obtained by counting the dose prior to injection using the gamma camera and counting the syringe and IV cannula after injection. Significantly higher levels of myocardial thallium uptake were obtained in both the volunteers and patients with normal coronary anatomy (1.36% +/- 0.32%, n = 10 and 0.93% +/- 0.26%, n = 9, respectively) compared to patients with single, double or triple vessel coronary artery disease (0.63% +/- 0.19%, n = 11; 0.70% +/- 0.20%, n = 15; 0.67 +/- 0.18, n = 15, respectively). Exercise tests were positive in 46% of patients with coronary artery disease with an overall predictive accuracy of 56%. Thallium scans were positive in 68% of patients at a specificity of 89%. If the range of myocardial thallium uptake from the patients with normal coronary arteries is used to define a lower limit of normal, then the sensitivity of the thallium scan with thallium uptake is 90% with a predictive accuracy of 90% in the detection of significant coronary artery disease in this group of patients. Thus, estimation of total % thallium uptake is a simple index which yields useful diagnostic clinical information.
Fatty acid myocardial imaging using 123I-beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP): comparison of myocardial perfusion and fatty acid utilization in canine myocardial infarction (occlusion and reperfusion model).	To evaluate the relationship between myocardial perfusion and fatty acid metabolism in canine myocardial infarction, 16 dogs were studied using thallium and 123I-beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP). Eight dogs (group A) had left anterior coronary arterial occlusion (6 h ligation), 6 dogs (group B) had reperfusion (3 h ligation and 1 h reperfusion) and 2 dogs served as the normal control. Myocardial imaging with BMIPP was excellent, owing to its higher uptake and longer retention in myocardium and rapid blood disappearance in addition to diminished liver and lung uptake. The mean half time value which was generated from the BMIPP myocardial washout curve, was significantly larger in the reperfused myocardium. The gamma camera imaging showed uncoupling of BMIPP and thallium (BMIPP uptake greater than thallium uptake) in five dogs in group B. On the other hand, all dogs in group A had a persistent defect in BMIPP and thallium uptake. Our findings indicate that the combination of BMIPP and thallium for myocardial imaging supply different information about the zone of infarction and ischemia, which may be useful for the assessment of myocardial viability.
Mechanism of 201Tl uptake in tumours.	We have studied the mechanism of tumour uptake of 201Tl by in vivo and in vitro studies. In a series of patients with breast cancer (n = 26), lung cancer (n = 56) and lymphoma (n = 15), the time course of tumour uptake of 201Tl paralleled that in the myocardium with almost identical times of peak uptake being obtained in tumours and myocardium. In a patient with hepatic metastases from colonic cancer undergoing laparotomy, 99mTc labelled microspheres and 201Tl were injected into the hepatic artery and biopsies of metastatic and normal liver tissue obtained. The tumour to normal liver activity ratios for 201Tl were one tenth of those for 99mTc microspheres. In the final part of the study, cells from a lung cancer tissue culture line were incubated for 30 min with 201Tl with and without the addition of cardiac glycoside, which acts a sodium potassium pump blocker. The cells exposed to the cardiac glycoside showed markedly decreased uptake of 201Tl compared to the cells not so exposed (0.6% +/- 0.1% vs 11.8 +/- 0.7.2% of the administered dose). The mechanism of 201Tl uptake of tumours is similar to that in the myocardium. Sodium potassium pump activity appears to be more important than tumour blood flow. 201Tl uptake may provide a useful means of studying tumour viability.
Detection of coronary artery stenosis in children with Kawasaki disease. Usefulness of pharmacologic stress 201Tl myocardial tomography.	This study determined the feasibility and accuracy of quantitative 201Tl myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) after dipyridamole infusion to detect coronary obstructive lesions in children with Kawasaki disease. 201Tl distribution after dipyridamole infusion was measured in 23 normal children, and with these normal values, quantitative analysis of SPECT was performed in 49 patients. Thirty-four patients had coronary stenosis 90% or greater on angiograms. Side effects resulting from systemic vasodilation were observed in about 70%. Angina pectoris and ischemic ST changes were observed only in patients with coronary stenosis. These symptoms disappeared after aminophylline infusion. Results of visual and quantitative analysis of SPECT were compared. SPECT data were shown on two-dimensional polar maps, and the extent and severity scores were calculated. The sensitivity of SPECT for detection of overall coronary stenosis was 91% (visual analysis) and 88% (quantitative analysis). The specificity of SPECT was 60% visually and 93% quantitatively. The sensitivity of quantitative analysis to detect individual coronary stenosis was similar to that of visual analysis. However, the specificity of visual analysis to detect individual coronary artery stenosis was significantly less than that of quantitative analysis. From these data, we conclude that quantitative analysis of myocardial SPECT after dipyridamole infusion is a safe and accurate diagnostic method for identifying coronary stenosis in children with Kawasaki disease.
Efficacy of coronary artery bypass surgery with gastroepiploic artery. Assessment with thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy.	This study describes the efficacy of the right gastroepiploic artery (GEA) as graft material for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) as assessed by exercise thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy in eight patients (age, 59.4 +/- 9.35 years [mean +/- SD]) who underwent CABG with the GEA graft in the past 2 years. Planar and single-photon-emission computed tomographic (SPECT) images were obtained during and 3 hours after exercise. Planar images were evaluated quantitatively with the percentile-washout method, and SPECT images were evaluated qualitatively with a bull's-eye, polar-coordinate map. All patients had triple-vessel disease, and in situ GEAs were anastomosed to the right coronary artery in seven patients and to the left anterior descending coronary artery in one. The internal mammary artery graft was concomitantly used in all patients. The mean number of grafts per patient was 3.0 (range, 2-4). Preoperative exercise testing could not be performed in two patients because of emergency operation. By qualitative assessment with the polar-coordinate map, four patients showed improvement, one did not show any change, and one became worse due to perioperative myocardial infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhanced sensitivity and specificity of thallium-201 imaging for the detection of regional ischemic coronary disease by combining SPECT with "bull's eye" analysis.	Previous studies have indicated that the combination of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and quantitative "bull's eye" analysis (QBA) TI-201 cardiac stress imaging may improve the detection of myocardial ischemia over that achieved with planar (PLN) imaging. This study will evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of SPECT and QBA in the detection of disease in the left anterior descending (LAD), left circumflex (LCX), and right coronary artery. Ninety-nine patients who underwent both TI-201 stress imaging and coronary arteriography were evaluated retrospectively. Of the 99, 62 had PLN imaging and 37 were evaluated with SPECT; 23 of these 37 had QBA. The overall sensitivity and specificity were as follows: PLN, 94% and 50%; SPECT, 90% and 67%; QBA, 100% and 20%; and SPECT with QBA, 92% and 72%, respectively. The regional sensitivity and specificity of PLN for individual coronary arteries were as follows: RCA, 78% and 74%; LAD, 89% and 60%; LCX, 50% and 89%, respectively. For SPECT, the results were: RCA, 86% and 93%; LAD, 85% and 88%; and LCX, 60% and 88%. For QBA alone, the results were: RCA, 100% and 75%; LAD, 88% and 53%; and LCX, 100% and 89%. The results for QBA with SPECT were: RCA, 100% and 94%; LAD, 88% and 80%; and LCX, 67% and 95%. Thus, SPECT interpreted on conjunction with QBA showed higher sensitivity for evaluation of ischemia in the RCA and LCX arteries and higher specificity in the detection of LAD and RCA disease than did PLN TI-201 imaging. Because of the low specificity of QBA (20%), caution is advised in the interpretation of QBA alone without reviewing SPECT images.
Electrocardiographic diagnosis of remote posterior wall myocardial infarction using unipolar posterior lead V9.	The accuracy of four electrocardiographic criteria for diagnosing remote posterior myocardial infarction was assessed prospectively in 369 patients undergoing exercise treadmill testing with thallium scintigraphy. Criteria included the following: 1) R-wave width greater than or equal to 0.04 s and R-wave greater than or equal to S-wave in V1; 2) R-wave greater than or equal to S-wave in V2; 3) T-wave voltage in V2 minus V6 greater than or equal to 0.38 mV (T-wave index); 4) Q-wave greater than or equal to 0.04 s in left paraspinal lead V9. Twenty-seven patients (7.3 percent) met thallium criteria for posterior myocardial infarction, defined as a persistent perfusion defect in the posterobase of the left ventricle. Sensitivities for the four criteria ranged from 4 to 56 percent, and specificities ranged from 64 to 99 percent. Posterior paraspinal lead V9 provided the best overall predictive accuracy (94 percent), positive predictive value (58 percent), and ability to differentiate patients with and without posterior myocardial infarction of any single criterion (p less than .0001). Combining the T-wave index with lead V9 further enhanced the diagnostic yield: the sensitivity for detecting posterior infarction by at least one of these criteria was 78 percent, and when both criteria were positive, specificity was 98.5 percent. It is concluded that a single, unipolar posterior lead in the V9 position is superior to standard 12-lead electrocardiographic criteria in diagnosing remote posterior myocardial infarction, and that combining V9 with the T-wave index maximizes the diagnostic yield.
Diagnosis of coronary artery disease using thallium imaging: tomographic versus planar imaging.	Coronary artery disease was evaluated with tomographic and planar thallium imaging in 31 subjects who had undergone coronary angiography for assessment of chest pain syndrome. Coronary arteriography revealed significant coronary artery disease in 17; and 14 had normal coronary arteries. The sensitivity and specificity for planar imaging was 71% and 79%, and that for tomography, 94% and 79% respectively. The sensitivity and specificity figures for individual coronary artery lesion detection for planar imaging were 87/83 for LAD, 33/100 for LCX and 50/86 for RCA respectively, and for tomography the figures were 87/87 for LAD, 33/95 for LCX and 90/76 for RCA respectively. The use of coronary arteriography as a gold standard was considered by assessing its interobserver variability, which was 16%. The interobserver variability for thallium imaging was 8% and 3% respectively for tomographic and planar acquisitions.
The multislice cylinder: a new approach to quantification of cardiac single photon emission tomography.	A new method of displaying SPECT (single photon emission tomography) thallium-201 images is described in which cardiac activity is constructed as a cylindrical map. Exercise thallium-201 scintigrams from 52 patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease are analysed by this technique and a simplified severity score devised.
Methods of background subtraction in myocardial perfusion imaging with thallium-201: a comparative study in the presence of an artefact.	For thallium imaging quantitation, a simulation study has been made using different methods of interpolation for background subtraction and studying their behaviour in the presence of an artefact. Two artefacts were used, one simulating hepatic or splenic uptake and the other diaphragmatic activity. The interpolative methods used were three classic techniques using standard masks. Their algorithms were modified so that they could also be used with arbitrarily shaped masks enclosing myocardium, and a comparison between the original and modified methods was made. Our results show an improvement when using the modified algorithms adapted to the arbitrarily outlined mask.
Planar positron imaging of rubidium-82 for myocardial infarction: a comparison with thallium-201 and regional wall motion.	Rubidium-82 (Rb-82) is a generator-produced, short half-life (76 seconds) positron emitting potassium analog. Using a mobile gamma camera equipped with a rotating tungsten collimator and high-energy shielding, we examined the use of Rb-82 in the coronary care unit and clinical laboratory for detection of perfusion defects due to myocardial infarction. We studied 31 subjects, 10 patients with acute myocardial infarction, 12 with remote myocardial infarction, and nine controls. Rb-82 images were compared with Tl-201 and regional wall motion for detection of infarct-related arteries. Of the 22 patients with myocardial infarction, 16 were identified with Rb-82 and Tl-201. In nine control subjects, eight were normal with each method. Correlation between Rb-82 and Tl-201 defect scores was excellent. Sensitivity and specificity for infarct-related arteries were similar for Rb-82, Tl-201, and wall motion imaging. Thus planar Rb-82 imaging can detect MI reliably in the coronary care unit and in the clinical laboratory.
Surgical implications of anomalous aortic origin of the left coronary artery.	We report a patient with exertional chest pain and anomalous aortic origin of the left coronary artery from the right coronary sinus. This patient also had circumflex coronary and right coronary artery stenoses. Following coronary bypass grafting of the circumflex and right coronary arteries in this patient, angina persisted and there was abnormal septal perfusion shown on the exercise thallium imaging despite patent grafts. The angina and perfusion defect were improved by bypass grafting of the unstenosed left anterior descending coronary artery in this patient. Thallium imaging may be useful in the preoperative assessment of patients with this anomaly.
Diagnostic efficacy of dynamic radiothallium uptake in thyroid nodules determined by computer-assisted scintigraphy. Reevaluation of a radioisotopic procedure.	Radiothallium (201Tl) has been proposed as a tracer in nuclear medicine for the diagnosis of cold thyroid nodules. Its potassium-mimetic characteristics, like those of 131Cs, can provide information on its turnover in the thyroid nodules; this serves as a basis for the distinction between benign and malignant thyroid tumours. The author presents a study on the diagnostic efficacy of 201Tl as a tracer for thyroid nodules with the aim of evaluating the dynamic uptake and the biodistribution of 201Tl after intravenous injection of 555-740 kBq/kg. A quantitative analysis was made by continuous scanning of 201Tl distribution during the first 20-30 min following thallium injection, with further surveys from 40 to 60 min or more when fixation in a nodule was demonstrated. The ratio between 201Tl uptakes in the nodule and in healthy tissue (density index) was calculated and a multiparametric analysis of the corresponding activity/time curves was performed. This study included 176 patients. Concordance between clinico-histological diagnosis and radio-isotopic findings was demonstrated in 102 out of 106 colloidocystic goitres, in 42 out of 48 benign nodules including thyroiditis, and in 21 out of 22 malignant tumours; a significant statistical difference in the density index between solid and cystic nodules, but no difference between benign and malignant nodules; and a different 201Tl dynamic behaviour in nodules of different nature, with a clear statistical difference in the thallium release between malignant nodular and healthy tissue (nodular disappearance index). This method can improve the diagnosis value of scintigraphy for thyroid nodules enhancing the sensitivity of the radioisotopic applications in comparison with other non-invasive techniques.
The modification of 201Tl-SPECT of the myocardium by breast absorption]	The attenuation effect of the female breast on single-photon emission computed 201Tl-chloride myocardial tomograms (SPECT) was quantitatively evaluated in a group of 20 women. SPECT was carried out with the left breast in the normal position and after its maximal upward displacement. The count rate gain was up to 30% when the breast was raised. 201Tl-chloride myocardial SPECT often showed false lesions in the anterior wall which resulted from the attenuation of the gamma rays by the female breast. This factor is neglected in constructing the tomograms, and even if such artifacts are absent, the attenuation may adversely affect the calculated wash-out values.
Mediastinal parathyroid localization: possible pitfall in technetium-thallium subtraction scintigraphy.	Two cases of mediastinal localization of parathyroid adenoma are presented, in which technetium-thallium subtraction scintigraphy yielded a positive result. Both patients had already undergone a negative surgical neck exploration. We suggest that, in case of negative subtraction scintigraphy and negative surgical exploration in proven primary hyperparathyroidism, subtraction scintigraphy should be repeated with emphasis on the superior mediastinum, and in all cases, the use of a non-zoom, large field of few procedure is recommended for technetium-thallium subtraction scintigraphy.
Technetium-99m diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC): comparison with thallium-201 DDC as an agent for brain imaging.	Technetium-99m diethyldithiocarbamate (99mTc-DDC) was prepared by reduction of [99mTc]pertechnetate with formamidine sulfinic acid in the presence of DDC at alkaline pH, both from extemporaneous solutions and in a kit formulation. The properties of 99mTc-DDC were compared in vitro and in vivo with those of 201Tl-DDC, an agent used for cerebral perfusion imaging (CPI). 99mTc-DDC is a lipophilic complex but its oil/water partition coefficient is lower than that of 201Tl-DDC. 99mTc-DDC also shows greater binding to plasma proteins. Studies in rabbits show that 99mTc-DDC enters the brain but is not retained to the same extent as 201Tl-DDC. This lack of retention may be because 99mTc-DDC does not decompose rapidly in lipid media as 201Tl-DDC does. These results suggest that 99mTc-DDC in its present formulation is not suitable for CPI with SPECT.
New radionuclide tracers for the diagnosis and therapy of medullary thyroid carcinoma.	Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), a calcitonin-producing tumor that occurs in familial and sporadic forms, can be monitored satisfactorily with measurements of calcitonin and CEA in serum. However, locating the tumor site may be difficult. In the current review of the experience with four new radionuclide tracers for MTC, the relative value of each of these procedures is outlined. Total body imaging using TI-201 chloride and Tc-99m(V) DMSA are both sensitive techniques that can be used for the detection and follow-up of MTC. Imaging using I-131 MIBG and I-131 anti-CEA antibodies/fragments should be performed once the diagnosis and the tumor site have been established, to evaluate if patients might be amenable for therapy with one of these radiopharmaceuticals.
Thallium scintigraphy in patients with angina at rest.	Sixty six patients with angina at rest were investigated by exercise electrocardiography, thallium scintigraphy, and coronary arteriography. A positive exercise electrocardiogram was highly predictive (93%) but poorly sensitive (52%) of coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis). Thallium scintigraphy was as predictive of the presence of coronary artery disease (91%) but was also highly sensitive (91%). The diagnostic contribution of the thallium scan was greatest in those patients with an inconclusive exercise electrocardiogram without Q waves.
Evaluation by myocardial thallium-201 scintigraphy using dipyridamole of the coronary risk in peripheral vascular surgery]	From October 1983 to January 1985, 46 patients (38 men and 8 women; mean age 60 years, range 37-83) underwent peripheral vascular surgery either of the internal carotid artery or of arteries of the lower limbs. All patients had thorough clinical examination, ECG and thallium dipyridamole myocardial scanning before operation, as a result of which they were divided into 20 with, and 26 without chronic ischemic heart disease. Three major cardiac events were noted during or following a period of one month after surgery: two deaths due to a cardiac ischemic event and one post-operative unstable angina pectoris. The three patients with these complications were classified in the coronary group (NS). When the patients were reclassified according to the presence or absence of thallium redistribution on serial images after dipyridamole, 14 had redistribution and 32 had no redistribution. The three major cardiac events were found to have occurred in the group with redistribution (P less than 0.04). Our study suggests that patients with redistribution have a high incidence of postoperative ischemic events. They should be considered for a particular pre-operative coronary management to avoid post-operative major cardiac events and to improve survival.
Sustained improvement in myocardial perfusion four to six years after PTCA in patients with a satisfactory angiographic result, six months after the procedure.	Of 46 consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) from April 1980 to August 1982 and who had a satisfactory angiographic result six months later, one died of cancer and 41 had a detailed evaluation with exercise single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT, 40 patients) or repeat coronary angiography (one patient), 48-78 months after the procedure. During follow-up, two patients had recurrent angina due to progression of coronary artery disease requiring a second PTCA procedure of another coronary artery; one of them later had a limited myocardial infarction in an area supplied by the vessel initially dilated. At follow-up, only one patient had definite angina. All but one patient had a negative exercise test. Myocardial perfusion during exercise in the PTCA-related area, assessed by SPECT, was normal in 90% of the patients and showed a limited defect due to reversible ischaemia in the remaining four (10%). It is concluded that patients with a less than 50% stenosis six months after PTCA show sustained improvement in their functional status and myocardial perfusion, four to six years after the procedure suggesting continued patency of the coronary artery.
Thallium-201/technetium-99m-RP-30A disparity in the course of myocardial infarction after attempted reperfusion.	Recent reports have established that 201Tl may be taken up in areas of recent myocardial infarction after myocardial blood flow is re-established. In addition, there is accelerated 201Tl "washout" from these regions producing a pattern of "reverse redistribution." We present a case in which these phenomena may have contributed to a disparity of findings between a 201Tl stress imaging study and a repeat stress imaging study performed with a [99mTc] isonitrile (99mTc-RP-30A).
The reliability of thallium-201 myocardial tomography in a clinical setting without exclusions for drugs or suboptimal exercise.	A prospective study of 181 patients who underwent SPECT thallium stress imaging produced a sensitivity of 97%, a specificity of 90%, and an accuracy of 93%. Clinically it is often hard to withhold cardiac medications or exclude attempts at diagnosis even after suboptimal stress. These results indicate that tomographic thallium stress testing provides excellent clinical information, even in a relatively unselected population.
Noninvasive assessment of coronary artery bypass patency: determination of myocardial thallium-201 washout rates.	This prospective study was undertaken to investigate the response of thallium-201 washout rates to coronary artery bypass surgery. Thirty-four patients with coronary heart disease were studied before and after coronary artery bypass grafting, 27 patients with normal coronary arteries serving as controls. All patients underwent cardiac catheterization and thallium-201 serial imaging, including assessment of myocardial washout rates. Pre-operatively, thallium-201 washout rates yielded a considerably higher sensitivity in detection of coronary artery disease, without significant loss of specificity compared to qualitative evaluation of serial static thallium-201 scintigrams. Post-operatively, 50 of 57 segments supplied by a patent graft showed normal washout rates, while in 9 out of 11 segments an occlusion of the graft was indicated by decreased washout rates. Compared to pre- and post-operative qualitative interpretation of static thallium-201 images, the post-operative assessment of washout rates increased both sensitivity (82% vs. 64%) and specificity (88% vs. 77%) for the evaluation of bypass graft patency. Thus, quantitative assessment of thallium-201 washout rates improves the diagnostic reliability of noninvasive detection of myocardial ischaemia with regard to the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency.
Quantitative evaluation of tomographic 201-thallium myocardial scintigraphy.	Myocardial 201Tl emission computed tomography was performed on 25 normal subjects and 27 patients with angiographically significant coronary artery disease. A semi-automatic computer program was designed to define the left ventricular myocardial volume in all short axis sections. Within this volume the relative mean myocardial pixel count was calculated. This parameter was found to separate the 2 patient groups with a sensitivity of at least 81% at a specificity of 100%.
Comparative evaluation of [123I]14-p-iodophenyl-beta-methyltetradecanoic acid and thallium-201 in the detection of infarcted areas in the dog heart using SPECT.	The concept of using beta-methyl-branched long-chain fatty acids for assessment of myocardial fatty acid uptake and perfusion was extended to the use of radioiodinated fatty acid with stabilization of iodine on the omega-phenyl ring. Beagle dogs were injected with thallium-201 and imaged 15 min after injection. The next day the dogs were infarcted by occluding the LAD, and 2 h later they were injected with [123I]14-p-iodophenyl-beta-methyltetradecanoic acid [123I]BMTDA and imaged for 90 min using a gated SPECT procedure. Maximum uptake of BMTDA in the heart was reached 2 min post injection and the activity level remained constant in the heart during the imaging period. The activity ratio of target to nontarget areas in the tomographic slices was significantly better for the BMTDA imaging compared to 201Tl (P greater than 0.01).
The diagnostic value and clinical significance of light exercise 201T1 ECT in coronary artery disease.	To examine the clinical significance of scintigraphic transient perfusion defects preceding the occurrence of anginal pain and ischemic ST depression, we performed both maximal and light exercise thallium-201 emission computed tomography in 13 patients with effort angina pectoris. The target heart rate in the light test was set at 80% of the peak heart rate in the maximal test. The scintigraphic transient perfusion defect was observed in all cases in both tests, while the incidence of anginal pain and/or ischemic ST depression was lower in the light test (5/13 cases) comparing to the maximal test (13/13 cases). However, the number of defect segments in the light test was smaller than that in the maximal test (13 vs 19 segments). In the former 13 segments, the initial relative activity in the maximal test was not significantly different from that in the light test (69.4 +/- 9.3 vs 70.1 +/- 10.0%). These results suggest that the light test can precipitate a transient perfusion defect preceding anginal pain and/or ischemic ST depression, therefore the light test is useful to detect coronary artery disease in patients who cannot perform the maximal test.
Patient motion in thallium-201 myocardial SPECT imaging. An easily identified frequent source of artifactual defect.	Because Tl-201 SPECT requires that patients remain in an awkward position for a prolonged time, patient motion is a potentially serious source of artifactual defects on tomographic reconstructions. Thus, a simple method was developed for detection and correction of motion from SPECT images using a Co-57 point source placed on the lower anterior chest, an area remaining in the camera's field of view throughout imaging. In the absence of motion, this point source inscribes a straight line on planar summation of the 32 projections over 180 degrees. Movement is detected by deviation from this line. The number of pixels of motion is used to shift images so that the resultant images of the point source are linear. The method of motion detection and correction was tested in 48 consecutive patients undergoing Tl-201 SPECT. The corrected and uncorrected images were reconstructed and long and short axis tomographic cuts were quantitatively analyzed using circumferential profiles of maximal counts with comparison to the lower limits of normal. Motion was detected in eight of 48 patients (17%). The amount of motion was 2 pixels in three patients and 1 pixel in five patients. Quantitative defect extent was less after correction in seven of eight patients, with a mean decrease of 71% in patients with 2 pixel motion and 44% in patients with 1 pixel motion. This corresponded with a definite reduction in the size of the tomographic defect by visual analysis, and closer resemblance to quantitatively analyzed planar images performed either before or after tomography in the same patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Value and limitation of stress thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography: comparison with nitrogen-13 ammonia positron tomography.	The diagnostic value of exercise 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for assessing coronary artery disease (CAD) was comparatively evaluated with exercise [13N] ammonia positron emission tomography (PET). Fifty-one patients underwent both stress-delayed SPECT imaging using a rotational gamma camera and stress-rest PET imaging using a high resolution PET camera. Of 48 CAD patients, SPECT showed abnormal perfusion in 46 patients (96%), while PET detected perfusion abnormalities in 47 (98%). The sensitivity for detecting disease in individual coronary arteries (greater than 50% stenosis) was also similar for SPECT (81%) and PET (88%). When their interpretations were classified as normal, transient defect, and fixed defect in 765 myocardial segments, SPECT and PET findings were concordant in 606 segments (79%). However, 66 segments showed a fixed defect by SPECT but a transient defect by PET, whereas there were only nine segments showing a transient defect by SPECT and a fixed defect by PET. PET identified transient defects in 34% of the myocardial segments showing a fixed defect by SPECT. We conclude that both stress SPECT and PET showed high and similar sensitivities for detecting CAD and individual stenosed vessels. Since stress-delayed SPECT with single tracer injection detected fewer transient defects, it may underestimate the presence of myocardial ischemia, compared with high resolution PET imaging with two tracer injections.
Thallium imaging with single photon emission computed tomography.	Evaluation of myocardial perfusion with thallium-201 SPECT has advantages over planar images. These advantages are related to better contrast of the images, lack of superimposition of normal and abnormal areas, and a three-dimensional representation of the site and extent of perfusion abnormalities (ischemia, scar, or both). For this reason, rotational tomography is superior to planar imaging in assessing the extent of coronary artery disease, in the detection of small infarcts, and for quantitative measurements. Several techniques have provided accurate quantitative data for infarct sizing both in animals and men. The ability to quantitate infarct size (or ischemia) will be extremely important in studies of myocardial salvage, risk stratification, and longitudinal studies to evaluate the effects of medical and surgical interventions.
Ectopic parathyroid gland. Localization with thallium-201 SPECT.	Dual isotope Tl-201/Tc-99m subtraction is a useful technique for localization of abnormal parathyroid glands. A case of tomographic localization of nonsubtracted Tl-201 to a mediastinal parathyroid is reported and the possible benefit of this method discussed.
Beta-adrenergic blockade in acute myocardial infarction: a haemodynamic and radionuclide study.	While long term beta-adrenergic blockade, introduced in the convalescent stage of myocardial infarction, may reduce subsequent mortality, the value of early beta-blockade in the acute phase is less certain. Therefore, the influence of beta-blockade on left ventricular performance and eventual infarct size was assessed in 61 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction. Metoprolol (15 mg i.v. followed by 200 mg day-1 orally) or placebo was administered in a double-blind, randomised fashion with a median delay of 5.9 hours from onset of symptoms. After 15 days of double blind therapy all patients were started on open treatment with metoprolol. All patients underwent haemodynamic monitoring for 24 hours and serial radionuclide ventriculography and thallium 201 scintigraphy. In the first hour metoprolol produced a decrease in cardiac output (1.3 l min-1; P less than 0.001) due to a reduction in heart rate (15 min-1; P less than 0.001) and a decrease in left ventricular stroke work index (10.7 g m m-2; P less than 0.001) due to a reduction in mean arterial pressure (10 mmHg; P less than 0.001). There was then a gradual attenuation in these changes. While metoprolol produced an increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and in both end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes (P less than 0.05), these changes were confined to patients with a baseline pulmonary capillary wedge pressure below the median of 13 mmHg mercury. There was no significant change in stroke volume or in ejection fraction in response to metoprolol. There was no significant difference between the groups in left ventricular performance, as assessed by radionuclide ventriculography, or in scintigraphic infarct size, either at the end of the 15 days double-blind treatment or after 3 months open treatment with metoprolol. Thus, early intervention with metoprolol in acute myocardial infarction appeared to reduce myocardial oxygen consumption with no adverse haemodynamic effect. However, metoprolol failed to preserve left ventricular function, or to reduce apparent infarct size. These data suggest that the modest reduction in mortality reported in the acute phase studies of beta-blockade in myocardial infarction, is unlikely to be due to infarct reduction. It is more likely to be due to a secondary prevention or to an antiarrhythmic effect.
Breast carcinomas detected by thallium-201 scintigraphy.	Thallium-201 chloride scintigrams were made of GR mice bearing transplanted mammary tumours, and of human patients with breast cancer. The studies on the experimental system using GR mouse mammary tumours showed that the oestrogen-responsive tumours incorporated significantly more Tl-201 chloride than the oestrogen non-responsive tumours. In order to investigate the usefulness of Tl-201 chloride scintigraphy for human patients, a study was carried out on 15 women with primary or advanced breast cancer in which Tl-201 chloride scintigraphy was compared with bone scintigraphy using Technetium-99m. The results indicated that Tl-201, chloride scintigraphy was a very useful method for detection of primary breast cancer and metastases, and in some cases it revealed tumour structures not detected by Technetium-99m. We propose that Tl-201 chloride scintigraphy can be a useful method for early diagnosis of breast cancer.
Myocardial contusion in patients with blunt chest trauma as evaluated by thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy.	Fifty five patients suffering from blunt chest trauma were studied to assess the diagnosis of myocardial contusion using thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy. Thirty-eight patients had consistent scintigraphic defects and were considered to have a myocardial contusion. All patients with scintigraphic defects had paroxysmal arrhythmias and/or ECG abnormalities. Of 38 patients, 32 had localized ST-T segment abnormalities; 29, ST-T segment abnormalities suggesting involvement of the same cardiac area as scintigraphic defects; 21, echocardiographic abnormalities. Sixteen patients had segmental hypokinesia involving the same cardiac area as the scintigraphic defects. Fifteen patients had clinical signs suggestive of myocardial contusion and scintigraphic defects. Almost 70 percent of patients with blunt chest trauma had scintigraphic defects related to areas of myocardial contusion. When thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy directly showed myocardial lesion, two-dimensional echocardiography and standard ECG detected related functional consequences of cardiac trauma.
Non-invasive data provide independent prognostic information in patients with chest pain without previous myocardial infarction: findings in male patients who have had cardiac catheterization.	From 1978 to 1985, 470 consecutive male patients with complaints of chest pain underwent a maximal exercise test with a thallium scan and coronary angiography (CA). Patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) were excluded. During the follow-up (from 12 to 96 months), 32 patients died and 30 had a non-fatal MI. Survival (SR) and event-free rates (EFR) were estimated by actuarial methods; the influence of non-invasive and invasive variables were examined in univariate and multivariate models using Cox analysis. The five-year SR was 89% and EFR was 81%. Among historical data, age (less than 0.001), type of complaints (less than 0.01) and pretest likelihood of CAD (less than 0.01) were univariate predictors of EFR; by multivariate analysis, age was the only significant predictor (less than 0.001). Most of the maximal-exercise (MEX) test data were good univariate predictors; by multivariate analysis, workload (less than 0.001) and the maximal-exercise test score (less than 0.001) were the significant predictors. From history and maximal-exercise test data, multivariate analysis indicated that the prognostic information was given by age (less than 0.05) and maximal-exercise test score (less than 0.001). Among the invasive data, the number of diseased vessels (less than 0.001) and ejection fraction were the predictors. The combination of invasive and non-invasive data indicated that age, MEX score, number of diseased vessels and ejection fraction contributed significantly and independently to the estimation of prognosis. Among 242 patients with two or three diseased vessels, the prognosis was determined by the maximal workload (less than 0.01); ejection fraction (less than 0.07) was no longer significant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Right ventricular thallium-201 visualization in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Fifty-six patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who had echocardiography and cardiac catheterization were studied. Eleven (18%) of 56 patients had right ventricular (RV) thallium-201 visualization at resting scan. RV thallium-201 visualization was observed in the apex or lower half of the RV free wall, which was quite different from that with RV pressure or volume overload. There was no significant correlation between RV thallium-201 visualization and interventricular septal thickness or haemodynamic data. RV systolic pressure and RV dimension were within normal limits whether RV visualization was observed or not. Thus, an abnormal increase of RV mass in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may lead to RV thallium-201 visualization without RV pressure or volume overload.
Left ventricular aneurysm in short axis: a comparison of magnetic resonance, ultrasound and thallium-201 SPECT images.	Short axis magnetic resonance images of a left ventricular aneurysm were compared to similar views obtained by echocardiography and by thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography. Images of the dyskinetic left ventricular apex and the contractile left ventricular base were analyzed and compared. Unlike the previously reported orthogonal plane magnetic resonance images, short axis imaging provided representative and quantitative information in views comparable to those obtained by standard noninvasive imaging techniques. These data indicate that short axis magnetic resonance imaging is capable of identifying and sizing the aneurysmal and the residual segments of the left ventricle. The findings may be of prognostic value in patients with left ventricular aneurysm.
Evaluation of diseased coronary arterial branches by polar representations of thallium-201 rotational myocardial imaging.	The perfusion territories in polar representations of stress Tl-201 rotational myocardial imaging in patients with angina pectoris who had one diseased coronary segment were analyzed. The lesions proximal or distal to the first major septal perforator in left anterior descending arteries were detected by the presence or absence of defects at the base of the anterior septum. Right coronary artery lesions were detected by the presence of defects at the basal posterior septum, in contrast to the preservation of myocardial uptake at this portion in lesions of the left circumflex artery. The specific defect patterns were detected in cases with lesions at the first diagonal, obtuse marginal, and posterolateral branches. Recognition of these defects in the polar maps allows detailed detection of diseased coronary arterial branches.
Indication of aorto-coronary bypass graft surgery for infarction area of myocardium considered from exercise thallium-201 myocardial imagings.	To assess accurately the indication and effects of aorto-coronary bypass graft surgery (ACBG) to the myocardium infarction area, 35 patients with myocardial infarction were analyzed by using exercise thallium-201 myocardial imagings. The patients were classified into group I (18 cases) and group II (17 cases) before ACBG. Group I consisted of patients with regional hypoperfusion in the initial image who showed redistribution in the delayed image to the infarction area of myocardium. Group II consisted of those with regional hypoperfusion in the initial image without redistribution in the delayed image. Group I showed a significant improvement in myocardial perfusion (p less than 0.01), pressure rate product (p less than 0.01), global left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.01), segmental wall motion abnormality (p less than 0.01), and exercise tolerance when compared with those of group II before and after ACBG. The above study showed that the pre- operative redistribution of the infarction area in the delayed image suggests myocardial viability and ACBG will be effective.
Simultaneous multivessel coronary artery spasm demonstrated by quantitative analysis of thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography.	Thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy with quantitative analysis of emission computed tomography was performed during episodes of angina in 19 patients with variant angina and nearly normal coronary arteriographic findings. Eleven patients (group I) were shown by arteriography to have spasm in 2 or more large coronary arteries. Eight patients (group II) had spasm in only 1 coronary artery. In 7 patients in group I, significant diffuse perfusion defects simultaneously appeared in multiple coronary artery regions on the scintigram (group IA). The extent and severity of the perfusion defect as measured by thallium-201 tomography were significantly greater in group IA than in group II (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01, respectively). The duration of transient ST-segment elevation during the attack in group IA was significantly longer than in group II (p less than 0.001). The incidence of ventricular arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia, or complete atrioventricular block during the anginal attack was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) in group IA than in group II. In all study patients, neither attack nor scintigraphic perfusion defect appeared on the repeat test after oral administration of nifedipine. In conclusion, multivessel coronary artery spasm simultaneously appears and causes the attack in many patients with variant angina and nearly normal coronary arteriographic findings, and myocardial ischemia due to simultaneous multivessel coronary spasm is likely to be more extensive and severe, persist longer and have a higher frequency of potentially dangerous arrhythmias than that due to spasm of only 1 coronary artery.
Myocardial perfusion abnormalities in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: assessment with thallium-201 emission computed tomography.	Myocardial ischemia may play a critical role in the symptomatic presentation and natural history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). To assess the relative prevalence and functional significance of myocardial perfusion abnormalities in patients comprising the broad clinical spectrum of HCM, we studied 72 patients (ages 12 to 69 years, mean 40) using thallium-201 emission computed tomography. Imaging was performed immediately after maximal exercise and again after a 3 hr delay. Regional perfusion defects were identified in 41 of the 72 patients (57%). Fixed or only partially reversible defects were evident in 17 patients, 14 of whom (82%) had left ventricular ejection fractions of less than 50% at rest. Twenty-four patients demonstrated perfusion defects during exercise that completely reversed at rest; all had normal or hyperdynamic left ventricular systolic function (ejection fraction greater than or equal to 50%). Perfusion abnormalities were present in all regions of the left ventricle. However, the fixed defects were observed predominantly in segments of the left ventricular wall that were of normal or only mildly increased (15 to 20 mm) thickness; in contrast, a substantial proportion (41%) of the completely reversible defects occurred in areas of moderate-to-marked wall thickness (greater than or equal to 20 mm, p less than .001). Neither a history of chest pain nor its provocation with treadmill exercise was predictive of an abnormal thallium study, since regional perfusion defects were present in 10 of 18 (56%) completely asymptomatic patients, compared with 31 of 54 (58%) symptomatic patients. These data indicate that myocardial perfusion abnormalities occur commonly among patients with HCM. Fixed or only partially reversible defects suggestive of myocardial scar and/or severe ischemia occur primarily in patients with impaired systolic performance. Completely reversible perfusion abnormalities occur predominantly in patients with normal or supranormal left ventricular systolic function. Such dynamic changes in regional thallium activity may reflect an ischemic process that contributes importantly to the clinical manifestations and natural history of HCM.
Tomographic myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in children with Kawasaki disease.	Myocardial infarction and stenotic coronary lesions are serious late complications in children with Kawasaki disease. For the noninvasive assessment of myocardial perfusion, dipyridamole-redistribution 201Tl emission computed tomography (ECT) was performed in seven children (age 2 8/12-8 7/12 yr) 3-20 mo after the acute stage of the disease. In all patients, coronary aneurysms had been demonstrated by cross-sectional echocardiography. The scintigrams of six children showed no significant regional reduction of myocardial thallium uptake. These children had remained asymptomatic since the acute stage of Kawasaki disease. Persistent and transient thallium defects were present in one child with documented myocardial infarction. For this patient, obstruction of corresponding coronary vessels was confirmed by contrast angiography. It is suggested, that 201Tl ECT after dipyridamole-induced vasodilation may be used as a safe alternative to invasive coronary angiography for follow-up investigations in patients with Kawasaki disease.
Myocardial infarction size and location: a comparative study of epicardial isopotential mapping, thallium-201 scintigraphy, electrocardiography and vectorcardiography.	Based on epicardial isopotential mapping (the Ep Map), which was calculated from body surface isopotential mapping (the Body Map) with Yamashita's method, using the finite element technique, we predicted the location and size of the abnormal depolarized area (the infarcted area) in 19 clinical cases of anterior and 18 cases of inferoposterior infarction. The prediction was done using Toyama's diagnostic method, previously reported. The accuracy of the prediction by the Ep Map was assessed by comparing it with findings from thallium-201 scintigraphy (SCG), electrocardiography (ECG) and vectorcardiography (VCG). In all cases of anterior infarction, the location of the abnormal depolarized areas determined on the Ep Map, which was localized at the anterior wall along the anterior intraventricular septum, agreed with the location of the abnormal findings obtained by SCG, ECG and VCG. For all inferoposterior infarction cases, the abnormal depolarized areas were localized at the posterior wall and the location also coincided with that of the abnormal findings obtained by SCG, ECG and VCG. Furthermore, we ranked and ordered the size of the abnormal depolarized areas, which were predicted by the Ep Map for both anterior and inferoposterior infarction cases. In the cases of anterior infarction, the order of the size of the abnormal depolarized area by the Ep Map was correlated to the size of the abnormal findings by SCG, as well as to the results from Selvester's QRS scoring system in ECG and to the angle of the maximum QRS vector in the horizontal plane in VCG.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Quantitative analysis of perfusion scintigrams of the myocardium using 201Tl in ischemic heart disease]	Altogether 111 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) were examined using loading perfusion scintigraphy testing of the myocardium with 201Tl. Quantitative assessment of scintigrams was based on a computer-assisted method proposed by the authors which was used for determination of indices characterizing a degree of perfusion disorder in each segment of the left ventricular myocardium: the M/B ratio (the ratio of a mean level of radioactivity of a myocardial segment to a mean level of background radioactivity) and the TAI (the thallium accumulation index--a quantitative value of segmental perfusion). The method permits the detection of a zone of disturbed perfusion (ischemia, scar changes and left ventricular aneurysm) and quantitative assessment of the depth of scar lesion of the left ventricular myocardium.
Improved interpretation of exercise Tl-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in women: characterization of breast attenuation artifacts.	Thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy is reported to be a less accurate diagnostic test for coronary artery disease in women than in men. We retrospectively analyzed 34 Tl-201 studies obtained in 28 symptomatic women and compared them with those obtained in 32 men during the same interval. Three criteria were tested: criterion 1 was defined as abnormal scans showing any defect; criterion 2, scans showing only transient (reversible) defects; and criterion 3, scans showing either transient or "significant" (i.e., not due to breast attenuation) fixed defects. The sensitivity in women was 1.00, 0.73, and 0.93, respectively; the specificity, 0.26, 0.84, and 0.85. The best values in men were a sensitivity of 1.00 and a specificity of 0.86. The three criteria were then prospectively tested in 33 scans of 29 additional women. The sensitivity was 0.90, 0.65, and 0.80, respectively, and the specificity, 0.18, 1.00, and 0.92. Defects (usually fixed) due to breast attenuation artifact were seen frequently (30%). Criterion 3 best differentiates such defects from those resulting from coronary artery disease, making Tl-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy as accurate in women as in men.
The utilization of technetium-99m CPI as a myocardial perfusion imaging agent in exercise studies.	Myocardial perfusion imaging with Tc-99m carbomethoxyisopropylisonitrile (CPI) was compared with Tl-201 imaging in 22 patients who were assessed for coronary artery disease. There was agreement between Tc-99m CPI and Tl-201 imaging for detecting segmental myocardial ischemia and fixed defects in 185/198 (93%) of left ventricular segments. There was also an excellent correlation between the two tracers for the detection of coronary artery disease (18/22 patients). Myocardial clearance of the isonitrile complex was slow, and there was no redistribution into ischemic regions; the normal to ischemic myocardial ratio remained relatively constant over time. Reinjection at rest was used to distinguish transient ischemia from infarction. The isonitrile complex was excreted rapidly via the hepatobiliary system. After 3 hours, background activity was reduced to about 20% of the initial activity. Tc-99m CPI appears comparable to Tl-201 thallous chloride for detecting coronary artery disease. Tc-99m CPI may be useful as a myocardial imaging agent because there is no myocardial redistribution, myocardial clearance is slow, and clearance from background tissues is rapid.
Hyperventilation thallium-201 myocardial imaging for the diagnosis of vasospastic angina.	In seven patients with vasospastic angina, a transient myocardial perfusion defect was demonstrated on Tl-201 myocardial imaging after hyperventilation (HV). The development of spasm on one or more coronary arteries after HV was confirmed by later coronary arteriographic studies, with the perfusing area of the coronary arteries being compatible with the scintigraphic location of the defect. Repeated 12-lead electrocardiograms failed to establish the diagnosis in one of the seven patients. It is concluded that HV Tl-201 myocardial imaging provides invaluable information in establishing a diagnosis of vasospastic angina.
Myocardial ischemia with normal coronary vessels. Indication of a vasospastic etiology]	In a 43-year-old woman with ECG changes of an acute anterior and posterior wall infarct, associated symptoms and biochemical findings, coronary angiography demonstrated normal coronary arteries and a normal variant in the course of the left coronary artery. Vasospasms in another vascular bed (migraine) and highly positive 201-Thallium scintigraphy during acral cold provocation speak for coronary spasm as cause of the myocardial ischaemia in this patient.
Thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy in coronary triple-vessel disease: an attempt to increase sensitivity using quantitative methods.	In order to increase the sensitivity of thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy in patients with triple vessel coronary disease (TVD), we first examined retrospectively myocardial scintigrams of 179 patients with TVD, as documented subsequently by cardiac catheterization. Ischemia had been diagnosed visually in 141 (79%), scar without ischemia in 25 (14%) and no apparent perfusion defect in 13 (7%) cases. The subset of TVD patients without scintigraphic ischemia (i.e. those with scar or no perfusion defect) was then compared to a control group with normal coronary angiography using four quantitative criteria: (1) in preset-count analog images, a quotient of the exposure times rest image/stress image; (2) in preset-time digital images, a quotient of counts/pixel in stress image/rest image using two different myocardial regions of interest (ROI); (3) a similar quotient using paracardial lung ROIs of three different sizes; (4) the absolute values of stress lung uptake. Quotients (1) and (2) were expected to be lower in TVD patients than in normal controls due to exercise-induced global ischemia, quotient (3) and value (4) were expected to be higher due to exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction with increased lung uptake of thallium-201. All results showed a tendency to confirm these hypotheses; significant differences (P less than 0.05) between patients and controls were obtained in all lung quotients and in 3 of 12 myocardial quotients. No significant differences were observed in the exposure time quotients of preset-count images and in the stress lung uptake. Due to overlapping values, it was not possible to fix normal and pathological ranges of any quotient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Routine exercise testing or thallium-201 scintigraphy for prediction of cardiac events post-myocardial infarction?	The efficacy of 12 lead exercise testing and rest/exercise 201Tl scintigraphy as indicators of coronary anatomy and prognosis was compared in 46 low risk survivors of acute myocardial infarction. The non invasive procedures were performed at discharge, and cardiac catheterization was performed six weeks post discharge. On exercise testing, ST depression in leads remote from the site of infarction was considered to indicate multivessel disease and reversible ischaemia. On 201Tl scintigraphy, a perfusion defect remote from the site of infarction indicated multivessel disease, while a defect which reperfused at rest indicated reversible ischaemia. During the mean follow-up of 13 +/- 3 months, 14(30%) patients experienced cardiac events. Thallium scintigraphy was a more sensitive, but less specific, indicator of multivessel disease than exercise testing. Both exercise testing and 201Tl scintigraphy had a similar sensitivity (79% vs 79%), specificity (78% vs 88%) and predictive accuracy (78% vs 85%) for predicting subsequent cardiac events. Thus, in our patient population, 201Tl scintigraphy could not be demonstrated to be superior to routine exercise testing in low risk patients post myocardial infarction.
Evaluation of 3 dimensional space and time filtering on ECG gated 201Tl myocardial images.	Stress 201Tl myocardial images were obtained using a standard ECG gated acquisition protocol for 10 min per view. These images were filtered using a three dimensional space and time filter. The effects of filtering were evaluated by sectorial analysis. Comparing raw and filtered dynamic images, quantification demonstrated that filtering did not produce artefacts. A conventional static image was also obtained as the sum of the series of unfiltered dynamic images. Comparison of raw static and filtered diastolic images indicated that the latter demonstrated myocardial abnormalities more clearly (P less than 0.01) in 33 patients. Improvement in the signal to noise ratio produced by filtering made cinematic display and visual analysis possible which was not feasible with raw gated images. Clinical evaluation is in progress.
Study of myocardial perfusion by means of scintigraphy with thallium-210 in left bundle branch block induced by exertion]	Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy with 201-TL was performed in a group of subjects affected by exercise-induced, rate-dependent left bundle branch block (LBBB). The aim of the study was: to define the significance of the exercise-induced conduction abnormality: "primitive" or "ischemic". 14 patients, aging 28-58 years (x = 42), 8 with chest pain (4 typical angina, 4 atypical angina) and 6 without any symptoms were studied. None had history of prior myocardial infarction or clinical and echocardiographic signs of heart disease. LBBB appeared at a heart rate ranging from 70 to 160 beats/min. 6 patients showed repolarization abnormalities (ST changes, deep and negative T wave) suggestive for ischemia, during successive QRS normalization. 201-TL-uptake was normal in 5 subjects; in the remaining 9 ones reversible TL defects were demonstrated in the septum (6), in the septum and apex (2), in the septum and inferior-apical wall (1). No patients had irreversible impaired perfusion. All the patients had normal coronary angiography, with negative ergonovine test for coronary artery spasm. In conclusion, in the majority of our subjects (64%) with exercise-induced LBBB, a reversible TL-uptake defect, usually located in the septum without diagnostic value of obstructive CAD, has been observed. Further studies will establish if the TL-defect is only an "apparent phenomenon" due to contraction abnormality secondary to LBBB, or, on the contrary, an expression of myocardial ischemia with normal coronary vessels as a consequence of the LBBB.
Application of dipole analysis for the diagnosis of myocardial infarction in the presence of left bundle branch block.	The residue value on dipole analysis (the ratio of non-dipolar component to the measured body surface potentials) was estimated mathematically in 16 patients with left bundle branch block. Patients were classified into those with (group A, nine patients) and those without (group B, seven patients) a perfusion defect on thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy. For the entire QRS complex the residue of group B was smaller than that of normal subjects (20.0 +/- 4.1% versus 24.6 +/- 3.5%, p less than 0.05). Group A showed a greater mean residue value than group B (27.4 +/- 4.4% versus 20.3 +/- 2.4%, p less than 0.01) only during the initial one-third of the QRS complex. All but one patient of group A and only one patient in group B showed a high peak on the residue curve during the initial stage of the QRS complex. The maximal residue value of group A during the initial QRS complex was significantly greater than that of group B (40.9 +/- 10.9% versus 23.4 +/- 5.4%, p less than 0.01). An arbitrarily selected criterion of the maximal residue value greater than or equal to 30% during the initial QRS complex showed a sensitivity of 89% with a specificity of 86% for the diagnosis of myocardial infarction in the presence of left bundle branch block. These results might be related to the complex ventricular activation around the infarcted area even in the presence of left bundle branch block in which intramyocardial conduction with a simple activation front predominates. Dipole analysis appeared to be a valuable method of diagnosing myocardial infarction in the presence of left bundle branch block.
Fatty acid metabolism in symptomatic patients with mitral valve prolapse but without coronary artery disease--comparison with 201Tl myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.	Using 123I-omega-heptadecanoic acid (HDA) and 201Tl, respectively, myocardial fatty acid metabolism and perfusion were studied in 51 symptomatic patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) as diagnosed by ventriculography, and no evidence of coronary artery disease. Twelve subjects with normal coronary arteries and normal ventriculogram served as a control group for the evaluation of elimination kinetics of HDA. In the control group, the mean elimination half-life was 26.1 +/- 3.6 min, whereas the patients with MVP had a mean value of 25.0 +/- 6.4 min. In patients with MVP, a high incidence concerning abnormalities of accumulation and/or elimination of HDA occurred, namely accumulation defects in 31% and both prolonged and shortened elimination half-lives in 16% and 29%, respectively. Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy using 201Tl showed abnormalities in 76%. Correlations were found between decreased uptake of HDA and prolonged elimination half-life as well as defects by 201Tl, presumably due to ischemia based on small-vessel disease or abnormalities of cellular metabolism.
Vasospastic angina assessed by hyperventilation-thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy.	The response to prolonged hyperventilation (HVT) was evaluated by electrocardiography (HVT-ECG) and thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy (HVT-Tl-Sc) in 40 patients suspected of vasospastic angina. Both tests showed ischaemic changes in 16 patients and no changes in 20 patients. Two patients had abnormal HVT-ECG and normal HVT-Tl-Sc, and the reverse combination was found in two patients. Prolonged HVT was performed in 14 patients during coronary angiography (CAG). Nine developed transient total or subtotal occlusion in one of the major coronary arteries, all of whom had ischaemic HVT-ECG and eight had abnormal HVT-Tl-Sc. In the five patients without spasm at CAG four had normal HVT-ECG and all five normal HVT-Tl-Sc. Our data suggest that HVT-ECG and HVT-Tl-Sc have essentially the same sensitivity and specificity in detecting vasospastic angina.
Primary hyperparathyroidism in 23 cases]	Twenty-three cases of primary hyperparathyroidism were experienced at Wakayama Medical College Hospital and affiliated hospitals between January, 1969 and December 1985. Histopathological findings were adenoma in 22 cases, hyperplasia in 1 case. On the clinical diagnosis of this disease, the most sensitive laboratory test was serum calcium level, which was elevated in 21 patients (91%), and in 87.8% of all samples measured. Serum ionized calcium and phosphorus were also sensitive measures. The positive rate of serum PTH was 67% in 18 cases. Tl-chloride scintigraphy identified preoperatively the site of the adenomas in 8 out of 10 cases, and computed tomography in 10 out of 15 cases. Both methods are non-invasive, and are beneficial for the preoperative examination of the localization of parathyroid adenoma. After parathyroidectomy, serum calcium and ionized calcium levels recovered rapidly within the normal limit in 12 hours. On the other hand, serum phosphorus level increased gradually up to the normal limit in about 1 week.
Early and delayed thallium 201 imaging. Diagnosis of patients with cold thyroid nodules.	To investigate the utility of thallium 201 (Tl-201) thyroid scintigraphy for the detection of thyroid malignancies, early and delayed Tl-201 scintigraphy was done in 70 consecutive patients with a clinically solitary cold (Iodine 123 [I-123]) nodule. Early Tl-201 scintigraphy had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 7% in predicting malignancy. With a combination of early and delayed Tl-201 scintigraphy, sensitivity ranged from 17 to 25% and specificity from 95 to 100%. Early and and delayed Tl-201 scintigraphy are only of limited value for the detection of thyroid cancer.
Planar stress thallium-201 scintigraphy. First experiences with a new circumferential programme.	A new computer programme was used in 22 patients referred for suspected ischaemic heart disease (IHD) or for assessment of the size of a suspected ischaemic or infarcted area. An interpolative method was used to construct the net myocardial images. Initial imaging in three projections was started at five minutes after thallium-201 injection and delayed imaging three hours after the injection. The data were presented as analog images, circumferential profile curves, and washout curves. The calculated delayed/initial count ratio is an important measure of redistribution. In the 12 patients referred to detect clinically or electrocardiographically suspected IHD, the diagnosis IHD was made by the cardiologists on the basis of current routine criteria and the thallium test. The technique was found useful in localising and assessing the size of a suspected ischaemic or infarcted area in nine of 10 patients. Our experience with the new programme confirms the experience of others that a combination of analog images and computer processed data gives much more precise information than the visual inspection of the analog pictures alone.
Impressive lung uptake during exercise thallium imaging with decrease of systolic blood pressure.	A case of very high thallium lung activity during exercise myocardial imaging in a patient with an old myocardial infarction but free from typical angina or heart failure symptoms is reported. The impressively abnormal lung uptake occurred in connection with a stress-induced fall in the systolic blood pressure, pointing out a causal rle of a transient left ventricular dysfunction and interstitial pulmonary oedema in the genesis of the scintigraphic picture. Three weeks after the test, the patient suddenly died at home.
Prognostic importance of thallium uptake by the lungs during exercise in coronary artery disease.	We studied the value of thallium imaging as compared with clinical and exercise-test variables in predicting cardiac events occurring over five years in 525 consecutive patients referred for thallium-exercise testing in 1979. Follow-up was obtained on 467 patients (89 percent). There were 105 cardiac events--25 cardiac deaths, 33 myocardial infarctions, and 47 coronary bypass procedures. A Cox survival analysis identified increased thallium uptake by the lungs, a marker of left ventricular dysfunction during exercise, as the best predictor of a cardiac event (relative risk ratio = 3.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 2.2 to 5.4). The next most powerful predictors were a history of typical angina, a previous myocardial infarction, and ST-segment depression during exercise (relative risk ratios = 2.1, 1.8, and 1.7, respectively). No combination of variables made up for the loss in prognostic power when the variable of increased thallium uptake by the lungs was removed from the model. Cardiac events occurred over five years in 10 (5 percent) of 192 patients with a normal thallium scan, 41 (25 percent) of 163 patients with an abnormal thallium scan but normal thallium activity in the lungs, and 54 (67 percent) of 81 patients with increased thallium uptake by the lungs (P less than 0.0001). We conclude that increased uptake of thallium by the lungs during exercise predicts a high risk of subsequent cardiac events.
Parathyroid imaging.	Developments in technology mean that it is now possible to localize abnormal parathyroid glands by a variety of imaging methods. There remain a number of unresolved issues. With all commonly used methods (radionuclide imaging, ultrasound, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging), there are wide variations in sensitivity of detection of glands, and in many cases this variation is not explained satisfactorily. The necessity for imaging is questioned by many parathyroid surgeons, particularly before a first operation. However, parathyroid surgery is itself changing, with a trend towards more limited neck exploration, which requires localization of the glands pre-operatively. This review describes the methods available for localizing parathyroid glands, with their advantages and limitations, and discusses the role of the techniques prior to surgery.
201T1 and 99Tcm-J001X macrophage scintigraphy: two radionuclide imaging techniques for the surveillance of acute localized radiation over-exposures.	The therapeutic or surgical management of acute localized irradiation is very complicated due to the delayed occurrence of ionizing radiation effects. There is a great need for non-invasive imaging techniques to delineate healthy from exposed tissues. Such a technique should be of value considering that spread of damage can occur from apparently silent fibrotic foci. Of the scintigraphic procedures, 99Tcm first-pass scintigraphy has already been recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the evaluation of irradiated tissues. In order to improve the scintigraphic surveillance of accidental over-exposures, the potentials of 201T1 and 99Tcm-J001X were evaluated on an experimental porcine model reproducing the late fibrotic effect encountered after localized irradiation. J001X, an acylated poly-(1,3)-galactoside of bacterial origin, was used for the functional imaging of the inflammatory reaction which took place after irradiation. This scintigraphy, based on targeting of activated macrophages recruited by lesions, was performed together with 201T1 scans for the assessment of blood perfusion and cellular metabolism. Our results demonstrate that these two radiopharmaceuticals provide reliable information for the management of accidental localized over-exposure, J001X allowing the assessment of the inflammatory reaction and 201T1-chloride being mainly useful for imaging the delayed onset of fibrosis.
Temporal variability in wall motion abnormality with stress-induced myocardial ischemia assessed by quantitative exercise echocardiography: difference between reversible and persistent myocardial ischemia.	Echocardiography was performed before and after treadmill tests in 30 patients to determine whether there is temporal variability in left ventricular wall motion abnormality with exercise-induced ischemia. The extent of wall motion was assessed by calculating systolic shortening in endocardial motion by two methods: (1) comparison between end diastole and end systole (ED-ES) and (2) frame-by-frame analysis throughout systole (integration). The extent of myocardial ischemia was assessed by stress thallium 201 emission tomography. Sensitivity of echocardiography for diagnosis of ischemia was 62% by ED-ES, but it increased to 83% by the integration method. Twenty-one percent of the ischemic area showed wall motion abnormality solely in the middle of systolic phase but not at end systole, and this occurred more at the reversible ischemic area (31%) than at the persistent ischemic area (19%). In conclusion, analysis throughout systole is important in detecting a reversible ischemic area.
Enhanced hepatic uptake of thallium-201 in patients with severe narrowing of the right coronary artery.	To assess the hepatic uptake of thallium-201 after exercise treadmill testing and to investigate whether hepatic uptake of thallium-201 may be a useful marker of right coronary artery (RCA) disease, 43 patients were studied: 17 with RCA disease (9 with 1-vessel disease, 8 with multivessel disease including the RCA), 8 with left coronary system disease alone, and 18 with a low probability (< 5%) of coronary disease. All subjects were studied with symptom-limited exercise and redistribution thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) scintigraphy. Two indexes of hepatic uptake were derived: a liver-to-heart ratio after stress, and a stress-to-rest hepatic ratio. The low-probability group had a liver/heart ratio of 0.48 +/- 0.02. In the group with RCA disease alone, liver/heart ratio was 1.29 +/- 0.20 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group). Patients with multivessel coronary artery disease involving the RCA had a ratio of 1.19 +/- 0.16 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group), and patients with only left coronary system disease had a liver/heart ratio of 0.87 +/- 0.15 (p < 0.05 vs low-probability group). The stress/rest ratio of the low-probability group was 0.83 +/- 0.04. Patients with RCA disease alone had a stress/rest ratio of 1.49 +/- 0.25 (p < 0.05 vs low-probability group), and patients with multivessel disease involving the RCA had a stress/rest ratio of 1.16 +/- 0.08 (p < 0.005 vs low-probability group).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of ST-segment/heart rate slope analysis with standard ST-segment measurement criteria to outcome of exercise thallium-201 imaging.	We compared standard ST-segment analysis and ST/HR slope analysis of exercise ECG studies with reference to outcome of exercise thallium-201 studies in 341 patients. Sensitivity was significantly better using ST/HR slope compared with standard ST analysis. Specificity was not significantly different.
Preoperative dipyridamole thallium imaging and ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring as a predictor of perioperative cardiac events and long-term outcome.	Dipyridamole thallium imaging (DTI) and ambulatory electrocardiography (AEGC) have been advocated as means to stratify risk before vascular surgery. The purpose of this study was to compare the predictive value of both tests in noncardiac surgery patients for perioperative cardiac morbidity and long-term mortality.
Microvascular angina in systemic hypertension: diagnosis and treatment with enalapril.	The causes of hypertensive microvascular ischemia are reviewed along with diagnostic factors. Stress/rest thallium-201 scintigraphy is shown to have a predictive value of 78% for a diagnosis of microvascular disease in hypertensive patients with exertional angina and left ventricular hypertrophy. Lack of isotope uptake at peak stress correlates well with the decrease in coronary flow reserve in ischemic segments, which is 2-3 times lower than in normal subjects. Treatment with enalapril produces regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, normalization of thallium-201 uptake, and an increase in exercise capacity in patients with microvascular angina.
Is planar thallium-201/fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging a reasonable clinical alternative to positron emission tomographic myocardial viability scanning?	This comparative study was performed to determine whether a conventional planar gamma camera optimised for 511-keV imaging can reliably assess myocardial viability using the fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) metabolic tracer previously developed for positron emission tomography (PET). Twenty-seven patients with severe ischaemic cardiomyopathy (mean left ventricular ejection fraction: 20% +/- 9%) having clinically indicated nitrogen-13 ammonia/FDG PET myocardial viability studies consented to resting, four-view, planar myocardial thallium-201 perfusion and FDG metabolism imaging. The resultant PET and planar perfusion/metabolism images (PPI) were independently assessed for FDG defect size and perfusion/metabolism mismatch, using a four-point scale, in each of four vascular regions: apex, circumflex, left anterior and posterior descending coronary artery territories. Of 108 regions, 106 were evaluable (two not assessed by PET). There was complete agreement in 70% of coronary vascular territories, giving an unweighted kappa score of 0.56. Moreover, in 94% of segments agreement was within one grade. Interestingly, six of the seven differences of more than one grade occurred in the circumflex coronary territory, which was also the only region for which planar positron imaging underestimated FDG defect size. Three of four moderate areas of perfusion/metabolism mismatch seen with PET were also seen on PPI. PPI showed three small regions of mismatch not seen on PET, whilst the reverse occurred with one other small region of mismatch. Thus, for this PET protocol, PPI provides very similar information on the extent of regional FDG uptake and occurrence of mismatch.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of T1-enhancing and magnetic susceptibility magnetic resonance contrast agents for demarcation of the jeopardy area in experimental myocardial infarction.	This study compared the areas demarcated by a T1-enhancing agent, Gd-DTPA-BMA, and a magnetic susceptibility agent, Dy-DTPA-BMA, with 201thallium autoradiography (indicator of perfusion) and postmortem histochemical staining with triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC)(indicator of infarction).
Differentiation of malignant from benign pancreatic mass by Tl-201 abdominal SPECT.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the ability of Tl-201 abdominal SPECT to differentiate between chronic focal pancreatitis and pancreatic malignancy. Seventeen patients (12 men, 5 women; mean age, 56 years; 9 pancreatic cancer, 8 chronic pancreatitis) with pancreatic mass were prospectively investigated with Tl-201 abdominal SPECT. In all patients, CT and/or US could not clarify the nature of the pancreatic mass. Focal hot uptake was present in 8 of 9 patients with pancreatic cancer, while it was present in 2 of 8 patients with chronic pancreatitis. Therefore, the sensitivity and specificity of the present study were 89% and 75%, respectively. A significant difference of Tl-201 uptakes was noted between benign and malignant masses (p < 0.05). Therefore, we concluded that Tl-201 abdominal SPECT was a useful test in differentiation of malignant from benign pancreatic mass, especially when the differentiation could not be made by other imaging modalities.
Myocardial revascularization with laser. Preliminary findings.	We assessed the transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMLR) as sole therapy in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease refractory to interventional or medical treatment.
Assessment of systolic wall thickening using technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile in patients with coronary artery disease: relation to thallium-201 scintigraphy with re-injection.	The results of resting planar ECG-gated technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) imaging were compared with those of thallium-201 (Tl) re-injection after exercise-redistribution scintigraphy in 20 patients (19 men, 1 woman, mean age 53 +/- 10 years) with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. Eight normal subjects (seven men, one woman, mean age 50 +/- 8 years) constituted the control group. In these subjects, only resting 99mTc-MIBI imaging was performed. The standardized percent count increase from end-diastole to end-systole was calculated as an index of wall thickening in 13 segments for each study. Regional wall thickening index (WTI) and 99mTc-MIBI uptake were significantly different (P < 0.05) among segments classified as normal, reversible defects, irreversible defects with increased tracer uptake after re-injection (Re+) or irreversible defects with unchanged tracer uptake after re-injection (Re-) on Tl imaging. Furthermore, WTI and 99mTc-MIBI uptake were significantly higher (P < 0.05) in Re- segments with moderate reduction of Tl uptake (> or = 50% of peak activity) than in Re- segments with severe reduction of Tl uptake (< 50% of peak activity). A significant relationship between WTI and the results of Tl scintigraphy was observed (rho = 0.71, P < 0.0001). The percentage of Re- segments with severe reduction of WTI was significantly higher compared to Re+ segments (64% vs 3%, P < 0.01). Furthermore, compared with moderate Re- segments, a significantly higher percentage of severe Re- segments showed a severe reduction of WTI (86% vs 48%, P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A comparison of resting images from two myocardial perfusion tracers.	We have compared stress-redistribution and delayed rest thallium-201 with rest technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (MIBI) tomograms in order to compare the tracers for the assessment of myocardial viability and to validate a rapid protocol combining the two tracers. We studied 30 consecutive patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease [group 1: 16 with normal left ventricular function, mean left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 55%, SD 6%; group 2: 14 with abnormal function, mean LVEF 28%, SD 8%]. 201Tl was injected during infusion of adenosine followed by acquisition of conventional stress and redistribution tomograms. On a separate day, 201Tl was injected at rest with imaging 4 h later. 99mTc-MIBI was then given at rest and imaging was performed. Three images were compared: redistribution 201Tl, rest 201Tl, and rest 99mTc-MIBI. Tracer activity was classified visually and quantitatively in nine segments and segments with > 50% activity were defined as containing clinically significant viable myocardium. Mean (+/- SD) global tracer uptake as a percentage of maximum was similar in group 1 (rest 201Tl 69% +/- 12%, redistribution 201Tl 69% +/- 15%, rest 99mTc-MIBI 70% +/- 13%, ANOVA P > 0.05), but in group 2 mean tracer uptake was significantly greater in the rest 201Tl images (59% +/- 16%) than in redistribution 201Tl images (53% +/- 17%) or rest 99mTc-MIBI images (53% +/- 19%) (ANOVA P = 0.02).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Significance of dipyridamole loading in ultrafast x-ray computed tomography for detection of myocardial ischemia. A study in patients with Kawasaki disease.	To examine the significance of dipyridamole loading as a stress in ultrafast computed tomography (CT) to improve the detection of left ventricular myocardial ischemia.
Simulation study of triple-energy-window scatter correction in combined Tl-201, Tc-99m SPECT.	In a quantitative SPECT study with multiple radionuclides, it is very important to eliminate the counts of scattered photons from planar images. In this paper, the triple energy window (TEW) method, which has developed to eliminate the counts of scatter photons in measured counts, was applied to a multiradionuclide SPECT study and its effect was examined in a simulation study. In the simulation, we used Tc-99m and Tl-201, and we assumed their photopeak energies to be 141 and 73 keV, respectively. For two different activity distributions in a cylinder phantom, simulation tests with Tl-201 and Tc-99m gave good agreement between the activity distributions reconstructed from primary photons and those from corrected data. The contrast of a cold spot area in images with and without correction improved around 70% to more than 96%.
Identification of asynergic but viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease by gated blood pool scintigraphy during isosorbide dinitrate and low-dose dobutamine infusion: comparison with thallium-201 scintigraphy with reinjection.	To evaluate the ability of low-dose dobutamine and isosorbite dinitrate (ISDN) gated blood pool scintigraphy (GBPS) and thallium SPECT with reinjection to identify viability in asynergic myocardium, both procedures were performed in 38 consecutive patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. Twenty-two of the 38 patients with successful revascularization were analyzed. GBPS was performed at the baseline and during continuous infusion of low dose dobutamine (5 micrograms/kg/min) and ISDN (2 micrograms/kg/min). Cine mode GBPS wall motion was scored from normal (0) to dyskinesis (4) semiquantitatively. Forty-seven of 110 segments with severe asynergy at the baseline were analyzed. Viability determined by GBPS was defined as wall motion score improvement by more than 1 grade. Thallium viability was defined as the segment with redistribution or fill in with severe initial perfusion defect. GBPS was 76.7% sensitive and 70.6% specific for predicting post vascularization wall motion improvement (p < 0.005). Of 47 segments with severe asynergy, concordance of judgement was obtained in 40 segments (85.1%), and reversibility was correctly diagnosed in 34 of 40 patients (85.0%), but thallium with reinjection correctly identified tissue viability in 6 of 7 segments with discordance between 2 studies. These data suggest that most cases of reversible asynergy (hibernating myocardium) respond to ISDN and dobutamine, suggesting the possibility of predicting improvement by revascularization, although some underestimation of tissue viability remained to be resolved. Thallium with reinjection is superior to low-dose dobutamine + ISDN GBPS for the assessment of myocardial viability.
Identification of reversible ischaemia after acute myocardial infarction using thallium tomography with early and delayed imaging after resting injection.	We studied 30 patients 6 weeks after first myocardial infarction in order to compare early and delayed imaging after resting injection of thallium for the detection of viable myocardium. Twenty-six of the 30 patients studied had received thrombolysis. Conventional stress and redistribution thallium tomography was followed by a resting injection of thallium with imaging immediately after in all patients and 3 h later in a subgroup of 15 patients. Thallium uptake was graded semi-quantitatively in each of nine myocardial segments. Eighty-eight of the 270 segments had a fixed defect on redistribution imaging, 40 (45%) of which had improved uptake in the immediate reinjection images. Only 9 of 135 (6%) segments with fixed defects on immediate reinjection imaging showed additional uptake with delayed reinjection imaging. These data suggest that imaging early after thallium reinjection is of value in the detection of reversible ischaemia after infarction, but that delayed reinjection imaging offers little additional benefit.
Noninvasive testing in the diagnosis and management of unstable angina.	Patients presenting with a clinical diagnosis of unstable angina comprise a heterogenous population and a wide spectrum of patients with varying degrees of underlying coronary artery disease, severity and prognosis are categorized in this syndrome. A very small number of patients with unstable angina who are refractory to adequate in-hospital medical therapy should undergo urgent coronary angiography and, if suitable, revascularization. The vast majority of patients do, however, stabilize on medical therapy and an invasive approach, such as a coronary angiography should not be performed routinely to all of these patients. Early recognition of clinical and non-invasive test variables indicating an adverse outcome is of paramount importance in unstable angina. This review focuses on the importance of baseline clinical markers and the usefulness of a non-invasive approach with exercise testing, myocardial perfusion imaging, stress echocardiography, and Holter monitoring in the diagnosis, risk stratification, and management of patients with unstable angina.
Effect of successful angioplasty following thrombolysis on infarct size and left ventricular function.	The role of the angioplasty following thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction has been discussed in several studies, however the effect of successful angioplasty on infarct size and left ventricular function has not been properly evaluated. Successful reperfusion was achieved in 79 out of 104 patients with primary anterior acute myocardial infarction. These patients were classified as follows, according to the type of intervention during the acute phase: 50 patients in which thrombolysis was successful (the thrombolysis group); 12 patients who underwent successful immediate angioplasty following successful thrombolysis (the immediate angioplasty group); and 17 patients in which rescue angioplasty was successful (the rescue angioplasty group). The 25 patients whose infarct-related vessels were not reperfused after intervention were classified as the non-reperfused group. Infarct size, evaluated as defect volume by T1-201 SPECT, 1 month after the onset, was 840 +/- 154 units (mean +/- S.D.) in the immediate angioplasty group and was similar to that in the thrombolysis group (948 +/- 88 units), but significantly smaller than in the non-reperfused group (1759 +/- 108 units). There were no significant differences in left ventricular function in the immediate angioplasty group and the thrombolysis group. Successful rescue angioplasty did not have any beneficial effect on left ventricular functions or infarct size, when compared with the failed thrombolytic group (1105 +/- 169 units vs. 1617 +/- 169 units). End-diastolic volume (52 +/- 3 ml/m2) in the successful rescue angioplasty group, however, was significantly smaller than in the failed thrombolysis group (67 +/- 3 ml/m2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Scintigraphy in the diagnosis of thyroid carcinoma]	Thyroid scans yield functional information useful in the differential diagnosis of thyroid nodules and are usually performed with TcO4-99m for its favourable physical properties, availability, low cost and good correlation with I123. Cold thyroid nodules are very frequent and generally due to benign diseases. To distinguish the minority representing carcinomas, classes of risk must be selected, according to multiple factors, including external radiation exposure, sex, age, iodine intake and thyroid morphology. These patients will undergo fine needle biopsy which can make the final diagnosis. Its accuracy is often preferred as a first line modality in the diagnostic approach to thyroid nodules. Tumour imaging agents are very useful in the staging and follow-up of thyroid carcinomas, but are rarely needed in the primary diagnosis of the disease.
Left ventricular involvement in mucoviscidosis after 2 years of age]	The cardiac involvement in cystic fibrosis includes the rare cardiomyopathy seen in infants and changes in left ventricular performance in older children.
Thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy and left branch block. Comparative value of exercise test and dipyridamole test]	Stress Thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy in patients with left bundle branch block often shows reversible septal perfusion defects even in the absence of coronary artery disease. This phenomenon seems more common when the patients have tachycardia. With the working hypothesis that dipyridamole stress testing, which does not greatly increase the heart rate, would be more appropriate than exercise stress testing to unmask coronary artery disease in this condition, the authors compared the results of two Thallium 201 scintigraphies performed after exercise and then after dipyridamole under the same conditions three weeks later, in 67 patients with complete left bundle branch block. Scintigraphy showed one or more reversible perfusion defects in 64/67 patients after exercise but only 32/67 patients after dipyridamole (p < 0.001). There was poor uptake in the septal region in 59 patients (88%) after exercise and in 25 patients (37%) after dipyridamole (p < 0.001). The specificity was evaluated in 23 patients estimated to have no coronary artery disease. If only unequi vocal perfusion defects were considered, the specificity after dipyridamole was higher than that after exercise, increasing from: 35% to 83% for septal defects (p < 0.01); 65% to 96% for anterior wall defects (p < 0.05); 61% to 87% for inferior wall defects (p < 0.05); 57% to 91% for apical defects (p < 0.01); 17% to 83% overall (p < 0.001). Lower values but with a comparable difference were observed when all forms of hypofixation (even minimal) were taken into account.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
State of myocardial perfusion in patients with primary hypothyroidism as evidenced by myocardial Tl-201 scintigraphy]	To study the myocardial perfusion in primary hypothyroidism accompanied by cardiac pain feelings, a total of 21 patients aged 30-60 years were examined by using resting 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy and in combination with bicycle ergometric testing. At rest all the patients showed impaired myocardial perfusion. A decrease in 201Tl accumulation, which corresponded to the areas of impaired perfusion, was observed in 54% of segments. A severe impairment of myocardial 201Tl washout was recorded in all the patients. During exercise 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy, steady-state myocardial perfusion impairments with normal washout were recorded in most patients. Areas of transient myocardial ischemia were revealed in 3 patients during scintigraphy in combination with bicycle ergometric testing. The findings suggest that patients with primary hypothyroidism have myocardial perfusion impairments which are likely to be reflected by dystrophic processes. Along with these abnormalities, exercise myocardial scintigraphy makes it possible to detect transient perfusion alterations in some patients, which indicates that they have myocardial ischemia.
Evaluation of myocardial viability in the infarcted areas by the improved myocardial perfusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty]	Muscle viability in infarcted areas was evaluated based on the relationship between Tl myocardial scintigraphic findings and improvements in myocardial perfusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in 110 patients with old myocardial infarction (OMI). 1. Myocardial perfusion was improved in 95% of patients with redistribution in infarcted areas before PTCA, but in only 29% of patients without redistribution before PTCA. 2. The %Tl-uptake and the washout rate were significantly improved after PTCA in all patients with redistribution before PTCA with normal to dyskinesia of segmental wall motion. The %Tl-uptake of infarcted area after PTCA was greater than 50% in all patients. 3. The %Tl-uptake and the washout rate were significantly improved after PTCA in patients without redistribution before PTCA. However, the %Tl-uptake was not changed after PTCA in such patients with akinesia or dyskinesia of segmental wall motion. 4. Myocardial perfusion was improved late during prolonged follow-up after PTCA in 40% of patients without restenosis. Stunning of the myocardium is likely in these patients. 5. %Tl-uptake of more over 50% in patients with or without redistribution before PTCA indicates the presence of muscle viability. Muscle viability cannot be expected in the infarcted areas of patients without redistribution showing akinesia or dyskinesia of segmental wall motion. Patients without redistribution before PTCA include cases with underestimated ischemic lesion. The diagnosis of muscle viability by single photon emission computed tomography will be improved by including evaluation of segmental wall motion by echocardiography.
Coronary artery disease in type-2 diabetes mellitus: a scintigraphic study.	This study was aimed at evaluating the level of metabolic control and cardiovascular risk factors in a population of Type 2 diabetic patients with coronary artery disease. We used myocardial thallium-201 scintigraphy as a measure of coronary perfusion integrity. One hundred and forty six diabetic patients presenting with chest pain, ischaemic ECG changes or a positive exercise test underwent myocardial thallium-201 imaging perfusion in conjunction with exercise stress. Scintigrams were assessed by a computer assisted image analysis. The cardiovascular risk factors considered were sex, age, BMI and waist-hip ratio, smoking, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, serum lipids (total cholesterol and triglycerides), glycated haemoglobin A1, urinary albumin excretion, white blood cell count, and diabetes duration. The proportion of male diabetic subjects with a positive scintigraphy was 63% while that of diabetic women was 45% (p < 0.05). Mean age, anthropometric measures and diabetes indices were similar when diabetic patients with positive or negative scintigraphy were compared. The prevalence of patients with microalbuminuria and retinopathy (both non-proliferative and proliferative) was higher in positive (26% and 27%, respectively) than in negative (10% and 11%, respectively, p = 0.01) diabetic patients. Total cholesterol and white blood cell counts were also higher in positive diabetics (p < 0.05-0.01). These findings suggest that a cluster of risk factors (cholesterol, white blood cells, microalbuminuria) may be implicated in the development of coronary artery disease in Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Prophylactic myocardial revascularization based on dipyridamole-thallium scanning before peripheral vascular surgery.	Cardiac events continue to be the leading cause of perioperative mortality following peripheral vascular reconstruction. The role of preoperative cardiac screening and prophylactic myocardial revascularization in patients without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease is undefined. Fifteen patients with no clinical evidence of coronary artery disease who were found to have reversible defects on dipyridamole-thallium scans and severe correctable coronary artery disease underwent aortocoronary artery bypass grafting. There was one (6.7%) operative death. Three patients (20%) developed postoperative complications: two atrial fibrillation and one breakdown of the saphenous vein harvest site. Thirteen patients underwent subsequent peripheral vascular surgery: seven had abdominal aortic procedures, three infrainguinal reconstruction, two carotid endarterectomy and one carotid-subclavian artery bypass. There were no perioperative or late deaths, cardiac complication, electrocardiographic changes, or episodes of angina associated with the peripheral vascular procedures. Thus, dipyridamole-thallium imaging appears to help select a group of symptom-free, but high cardiac risk, vascular patients in whom preparatory myocardial revascularization and subsequent peripheral vascular surgery can be performed with acceptable mortality and morbidity. The life expectancy of these patients may be improved and, specifically, the risk of their subsequent vascular surgery may be reduced by this approach.
Can benign and malignant thyroid nodules be differentiated with thallium 201?]	The merits of Thallium 201 radionuclide scanning of the thyroid mentioned as soon as 1976 by PALERMO have been confirmed in the 16 last studies published in the international literature. Over 1601 examinations, authors showed that any cold nodule (Tc 99 m or I 123) which preferentially fixes Thallium 201 as compared to surround thyroid tissue must be operated since some of them are thyroid cancer carriers, some others are carriers of a traditional follicular adenoma or Hurthle-cell adenoma, or a follicular adenoma associated with varied cell atypisms which make difficult the diagnosis between benign and malignant nodules. The analysis of the results published show a 91.3% sensitivity of this diagnosis test, all analysis methods being considered. In case of negative test, it allows eliminating the cancer risk by more than 97% (negative predictive value). Such an examination--as opposed to a cytology test on the isolated nodule only--is valid for any type of nodule, being isolated, multiple or a multinodular goitre where the degeneration risk is close to, or even higher than, that of isolated nodules (4, 22).
Comments on the contribution of thyroid radionuclide imaging in the management of isolated thyroid nodules]	Now that new diagnostic methods have been developed, the role of conventional radionuclide scanning must be reevaluated. In fact, its performance for morphological analysis is not as good as that of ultrasonography. Correlation between the functional appearance of nodules and their regression with thyroid hormone therapy is not established. More importantly, as cold nodules are most often benign, the specificity of the method is not sufficient. Thallium radionuclide scanning is an interesting approach, but it is not widespread yet.
Economic analysis of diagnostic and therapeutic methods in cases of cold thyroid nodules]	This article studies how two diagnostic tests (cytological puncture and 201thallium scanning) can be combined to obtain a more efficient approach of cold thyroid nodules. Diagnostic and therapeutic approaches are compared on the basis of four criteria: financial cost (immediate and delayed), number of labelled cancers, pre- and postoperative death rates and number of complications.
Adenosine-echocardiography for the detection of coronary artery disease.	The use of adenosine-echocardiography to detect coronary artery disease was evaluated in 39 patients. Adenosine was infused intravenously at 0.14 mg/kg/min for 6 minutes with continuous recordings of two-dimensional echocardiography. Three minutes after the start of adenosine infusion, thallium (201Tl) was administered into a separate vein. Myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images were obtained 10 minutes and 3 hours after the 201Tl injection. Transient reduction of systolic wall motion after adenosine infusion was considered an abnormal ischemic response. Echocardiography detected a wall motion abnormality after adenosine infusion in 17 of 39 patients. 201Tl redistribution was observed in 28 patients. Agreements for the presence of myocardial ischemia or infarction between 201Tl SPECT and echocardiography were 62% (24/39). The sensitivity of echocardiography in patients with single-vessel disease was 21%, but 76% with multi-vessel disease (p < 0.01 vs single-vessel disease). All side effects were tolerated well and disappeared within 1 or 2 minutes after stopping adenosine infusion. Adenosine-echocardiography was particularly useful for the detection of multiple-vessel coronary disease. Simultaneous evaluation of wall motion and myocardial perfusion during adenosine-induced maximal coronary vasodilation may improve the functional description of diseased myocardial segments.
Fatty acid metabolic and perfusion abnormalities in hypertrophied myocardium assessed by dual tracer tomography using thallium-201 and iodine-123-beta-methylpentadecanoic acid]	Fatty acid metabolic and perfusion abnormalities associated with cardiac hypertrophy were investigated using dual tracer tomography with thallium and a cardiac metabolic tracer, 15-(p-iodophenyl)-3-R, S-methylpentadecanoic acid (BMIPP), in eight patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and in three with hypertension (HT). Thallium and BMIPP uptakes were scored and analyzed in 143 segments (13/heart) by comparison with the left ventricular wall thickness measured by two-dimensional echocardiography. Complete agreement of both scores in HT patients was significantly higher than that in HCM patients (64% vs 24%, p < 0.001), while a lower BMIPP uptake compared to that of thallium (mismatching) was observed more frequently in HCM than in HT patients (65% vs 31%, p < 0.001). The wall thickness significantly (p < 0.005) correlated with BMIPP uptake score. HCM patients showed a low BMIPP uptake in 22 hypertrophic segments (59%) and 15 non-hypertrophic segments (41%), and reduced BMIPP uptake in 29% hypertrophic segments, while HT patients showed just five segments with decreased BMIPP uptake of which 4 were non-hypertrophic and only one hypertrophic. The left ventricular ejection fraction assessed by radionuclide ventriculography was normal and no regional wall motion abnormality was detected in any patient by echocardiographic and scintigraphic studies. Metabolic abnormalities detected by the iodine-123-beta-methyl fatty acid analog in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may be independent of thallium myocardial perfusion, regional wall motion, or the magnitude of cardiac hypertrophy, suggesting that fatty acid imaging may be useful in investigating the pathogenesis and subclinical abnormality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and differentiation from secondary, induced cardiac hypertrophy.
Effect of verapamil on myocardial ischemia in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: evaluation by exercise thallium-201 SPECT]	The effect of verapamil on myocardial ischemia in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) was evaluated by exercise myocardial 201Tl SPECT (EX-Tl). EX-Tl was performed before and after 8.1 +/- 6.1 weeks of oral administration of verapamil (240 mg/day) on 20 patients with HCM who showed transient 201Tl perfusion defects under control conditions. SPECT images were divided into nine segments. The 201Tl perfusion defect was visually scored and evaluated for four grades in each segment and the sum total grade was calculated as the defect score. Transient dilation index was calculated as a reflection of subendocardial ischemia. Improvements in defect score were demonstrated in 18 of 20 patients after administration of verapamil. The mean defect score decreased significantly from 5.1 +/- 2.3 to 2.5 +/- 2.4 (p < 0.001). Although 18 of 20 patients showed abnormal transient dilation index under control conditions, 16 showed improvement and 12 were normalized after verapamil therapy. Mean transient dilation index decreased from 1.24 +/- 0.19 to 1.08 +/- 0.10 (p < 0.01). Verapamil improves myocardial ischemia in patients with HCM.
Symptoms of patients with silent ischemia as detected by thallium stress testing.	This study was undertaken to determine whether patients with silent ischemia (SI) (a positive thallium stress test without chest pain) have nonchest-pain symptoms that might serve as "anginal equivalents." Two hundred ninety-four individuals on completing a stress test were requested to score ten symptoms on a questionnaire (0 absent; 3 severe). Forty-three with a positive test had pains (chest, back, arm, and/or jaw) (no SI), whereas 93 with a positive test did not (SI). Patients with SI and patients without SI did not differ as to age, gender, or clinical features (including presence of diabetes or a history of myocardial infarction), but patients with SI were less likely to report a history of effort-related chest pains. Patients with SI exercised longer and had a higher peak heart rate. Patients were comparable with respect to myocardial ischemia (ST segment depression, double product, thallium lung uptake, and positive thallium scintigrams) and severity of coronary disease. Patients with SI complained less of weakness (p < 0.02) and tended to have lower overall symptom scores (4.2 +/- 0.3 vs 5.4 +/- 0.6), but breathlessness was comparable for both groups. On multivariate analysis, no nonanginal symptom was associated with SI. Only absence of a history of chest pain with activity and longer exercise time were related to SI. Patients with SI have similar clinical features as those with angina but tend to be less symptomatic with myocardial ischemia even for symptoms other than chest pain.
User-definable bull's-eye database analysis.	Several quantitative bull's-eye database programs have been developed and employed successfully, but generally they restrict the user to limited types of quantitative analysis. We developed a type of bull's-eye analysis which facilitates user-defined processing, and then explored the effects of various types of processing on the comparisons of patient information with that of reference databases. Male and female bull's-eye database were generated from 32 normal patients using unweighted 2D prefiltering, ramp backprojection, unweighted 3D postfiltering, and peak value circumferential plotting (base method). The data from each patient were then reprocessed and compared to the databases by means of three different approaches: (1) using the base method, (2) using average as opposed to peak value profiles, and (3) using a resolution recovery prefilter instead of a smoothing prefilter. Significant differences in the number of apparently abnormal regions were found between the three methods. In other words, the type of single-photon emission tomography (SPET) processing affected the accuracy of comparisons between patient and database information. Because even sophisticated analysis can now be performed on personal computers, we conclude that, rather than a preprocessed data file, clinical "normal reference" information should consist of original SPET data (in a standard format, e.g., Interfile) from a series of documented normal patients. Each user could then generate reference bull's-eye database by applying his or her own clinical processing procedures to the data.
Estimation of malignancy using SPECT with 201Tl chloride in astrocytic tumors]	This study was designated to estimate the usefulness of SPECT with 201Tl chloride (Tl-SPECT) for the determination of the malignancy in astrocytic tumors. The subjects consisted of 39 astrocytic tumors in supra-tentorial regions. Tl-SPECT undertaken ten minutes to obtain an early image and four hours to obtain a delayed image, after intravenous injection of 74MBq 201Tl chloride (Tl). Tl index (L/N) was defined as the RI count ratio in the tumor lesion (L) to that in the normal parenchyma (N). Histological classification was determined by the WHO grading, and the results showed one case at Grade I, 11 cases at Grade II, 23 cases at Grade III and 4 cases at Grade IV. The proliferating activity was determined by the labeling index using the monoclonal antibody of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). In both of the early and delayed images, Tl index was significantly higher (p < 0.01) in high grade astrocytomas compared with low grade tumors. There was a close correlation between the Tl index and the proliferating activity. The relationship between the Tl index and prognosis indicated that the high Tl index was corresponded to the poor prognosis. These results showed that the Tl index is useful to determine the malignancy of astrocytic tumors.
Adenosine-induced heterogeneous perfusion accompanies myocardial ischemia in the presence of advanced coronary artery disease.	The aim of the present study was to elucidate the characteristics of patients in whom transient myocardial ischemia was evoked during adenosine infusion. Thallium-201 (Tl-201) myocardial imaging and two-dimensional echocardiography during adenosine infusion were performed simultaneously in 61 consecutive patients enrolled for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Transient reduction of systolic wall motion after adenosine infusion was considered evidence of myocardial ischemia. Tl-201 redistribution was noted in 38 patients, and 23 of them showed a wall motion abnormality during adenosine infusion. Stepwise discriminant analysis was applied to eight variables that showed significant differences by the univariate analysis between patients with the presence and the absence of adenosine-induced wall motion abnormality: myocardial infarction, anginal pain, ST depression, collateral vessels, Tl-201 redistribution, number of diseased vessels of > or = 75% or 90% stenosis and number of segments with Tl-201 redistribution. The number of diseased vessels with > or = 75% stenosis (F = 43.5, p < 0.0001), ST depression (F = 16.0, p < 0.0002), collateral vessels (F = 11.7, p < 0.001) and Tl-201 redistribution (F = 5.6, p < 0.02) were the statistically significant discriminators relating to adenosine-induced wall motion abnormality. Adenosine-induced myocardial ischemia was related to the number of coronary stenoses, reflecting the presence of severe coronary artery disease, and well-developed collaterals that might be integral factors in a coronary steal phenomenon.
The accuracy of conventional and three-dimensional thallium-technetium scans in patients with hyperparathyroidism resulting from multiglandular hyperplasia.	25 patients with hyperparathyroidism resulting from multiglandular hyperplasia were studied prior to cervical exploration. 43% of abnormal glands were correctly localized by preoperative thallium-technetium scintigraphy. In the 11 patients who underwent three-dimensional scanning, all glands already identified by scintigraphy were also localized in a third plane. In one patient an additional gland, not detected by the conventional scan, was visible.
Comparative study of 201Tl-scintigraphic image and endomyocardial biopsy findings in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy]	201Tl-SPECT image was compared with the findings of endomyocardial biopsy in patients with dilated cardiomyopathies (DCM), and diagnostic value of 201Tl patchy pattern image for fibrosis with DCM was evaluated. Serial 22 patients diagnosed as DCM with endomyocardial biopsy findings were selected for this study (age: 50 +/- 17 y.o., Male/Female = 17/5). Patchy pattern of 201Tl-SPECT image was visually classified to 4 stage according to the severity of inhomogeneous defect, and pathologic findings of fibrosis was also classified into 4 according to the severity of fibrosis (0: none, 1: mild, 2: moderate, 3: severe). Ejection fraction calculated from left ventriculography and end-diastolic dimension by echocardiography were also compared with 201Tl-SPECT image. Out of 22 patients, 21 patients (95%) showed fibrosis, and 18 patients (82%) showed patchy pattern with 201Tl-SPECT. Severity of patchy pattern was not in good relation to that of fibrosis (r = 0.374). 201Tl image was not related to the function nor dimension. Four autopsy studies revealed a good relation of macroscopic severity, spatial distribution of fibrosis and inhomogeneous 201Tl-defect pattern before death. Patchy pattern of 201Tl-SPECT image will show the myocardial fibrosis in patients with DCM, and is independent of the function. 201Tl-SPECT may show more clinically useful findings of spatial distribution and severity of fibrosis with focal myocardial biopsy.
Dual-isotope SPET 201Tl rest/99mTc-MIBI stress: one-day protocol for pre-operative myocardial imaging?	We compared the results of a rest 201TI/stress 99mTc-MIBI protocol, both by means of separate single isotope and simultaneous dual isotope acquisition, with a standard stress/rest 99mTc-MIBI 2-day protocol in 11 patients with low probability of CAD and 14 patients with chronic CAD. In patients with CAD 406 segments (sgs) were analysed. In the standard protocol 119 sgs were classified as pathological of which 50.4% were fixed and 49.6% reversible defects. With the MIBI-stress/TI-rest single 33% of 119 pathological sgs were fixed and 67% reversible defects. With the MIBI-stress/TI-rest dual only 20% were fixed and 80% reversible defects. The reversibility of 59 MIBI-stress/MIBI-rest reversible defects was quantified: MIBI-stress/MIBI-rest 35 +/- 16% MIBI-stress/TI-rest single 50 +/- 26% and MIBI-stress/TI-rest dual 48 +/- 22%. The results of 99mTc-MIBI rest and 201TI rest studies in patients with chronic CAD are not the same. Dual-isotope 1-day 201TI-rest/99mTc-MIBI-stress SPET data, acquired separately, may give fast and complete information on myocardial perfusion at stress and rest, respectively, and on myocardial viability.
Is 'silent' myocardial ischemia really as severe as symptomatic ischemia? The analytical effect of patient selection biases.	The clinical significance of exercise-induced chest pain remains controversial, as reflected by sharply discordant clinical results within the medical literature. Thus, we developed a prospective study to compare the functional significance of silent versus symptomatic ischemia and to evaluate whether patient selection biases influence this analysis.
Relation between coronary artery stenosis assessed by visual, caliper, and computer methods and exercise capacity in patients with single-vessel coronary artery disease. The Veterans Affairs ACME Investigators.	Practitioners often assume a close relation between angiographic coronary artery stenosis and patient functional capacity. To test this unproven hypothesis, we analyzed the relation between coronary artery stenosis measured by different methods and maximal treadmill exercise tolerance in patients with single-vessel disease before and after intervention by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
Redistribution of 99mTc-sestamibi and 201Tl in the presence of a severe coronary artery stenosis.	99mTc-labeled methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (99mTc-sestamibi) is a myocardial perfusion agent that clears slowly from the myocardium. This study evaluates the early and late myocardial distributions of 99mTc-sestamibi and 201Tl in the presence of low-flow ischemia to determine whether 99mTc-sestamibi demonstrates rest "redistribution."
Current status of the clinical applications of cardiac positron emission tomography.	At the present time, positron emission tomography (PET) has evolved into an accurate clinical diagnostic imaging procedure for coronary artery disease that provides unique information, presently unavailable from other imaging modalities, for the management of patients with previous myocardial infarction. The superior accuracy of PET for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease has had a positive influence on the management decision process to perform revascularization. In addition to the superior accuracy of PET compared with single photon emission computed tomography, PET has the advantage of being able to identify viable hibernating myocardium.
Correlation of exercise-induced ST depression in precordial electrocardiographic leads after inferior wall acute myocardial infarction with thallium-201 stress scintigraphy, coronary angiography and two-dimensional echocardiography.	Fifty-eight of 220 consecutive patients had exercise-induced ST depression in some or all precordial leads 3 to 12 months after a first inferior myocardial infarction. All 58 patients underwent thallium-201 exercise testing, 2-dimensional echocardiography and coronary angiography. ST depression was confined to leads V1-4 in 22 patients (group A); thallium-201 exercise testing showed reversible anterior perfusion defects and left anterior descending coronary artery disease in 11 of the 22 patients (50%). None of the other 11 with negative thallium-201 exercise test results had significant left anterior descending narrowing, and the anterior ST depression could be explained by asynergy of the posterior wall found on 2-dimensional echocardiography in 10. ST depression appeared in leads V5-6 in 22 patients (group B); reversible anterior perfusion defects and left anterior descending disease was demonstrated in 18 patients (82%). In the other 4 patients posterior wall asynergy was demonstrated. ST depression was seen from leads V1-6 in 14 patients (group C); reversible anterior perfusion defects were seen in 6 patients (43%), 5 of whom had significant left anterior descending disease. Among the other 8 patients without reversible anterior perfusion defects, posterior wall asynergy was found in 6.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Breast artifact in planar cardiac imaging: a comparison of 201T1 to sestamibi-99mTc.	Breast artifact occurrence during 201T1 myocardial image interpretation is a significant problem. We serially evaluated 3 female patients utilizing exercise treadmill perfusion studies in order to assess the potential role of 99mTc-Sestamibi (MIBI) imaging in the setting of documented 201T1 breast artifact. Both visual and quantitative analyses revealed no superiority of 99mTc-MIBI over 201T1 imaging in reference to avoidance of breast artifact. The variation in artifactual cardiac imaging defects in the 3 patients most probably reflected variations in breast positioning. Finally, the ability to assess ventricular wall motion via gated 99mTc-MIBI imaging may help to confirm an artifactual versus an actual myocardial perfusion abnormality.
Quantification of infarct size by thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography using the unfolded map method. Comparison with QRS score and angiographic infarct size at 4 weeks after infarction.	A new technique of data processing, the unfolded map method, was used with thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography to quantify infarct size in 35 patients with single-vessel disease at 4 weeks after their first myocardial infarction (24 anterior and 11 inferior infarcts), and the results were compared with those obtained by electrocardiography and contrast left ventriculography. The myocardial borders and the infarcted region were defined using the threshold technique and a cutoff value of 55%. Count profile data for each short-axis slice were unfolded zonally into single planes with the same ratio, and their areas were calculated from the slice thickness and radius. Thus, the size of the unfolded map represented the actual left ventricular myocardial area Infarct size was quantitated from the ratio of pixels in the infarcted region to those in the whole map, and the ratio itself was used as the percent infarct size. Although a defect 1 cm in diameter (0.8 cm2) could not be detected in a phantom study, defects > or = 2 cm in diameter (> or = 3.1 cm2) could be measured satisfactorily. The infarct size and percent infarct size determined by the unfolded map method correlated well with the QRS score (r = 0.841 and r = 0.838), the percentage of abnormally contracting segments on left ventriculography (r = 0.835 and r = 0.877), and the ejection fraction (r = -0.835 and r = 0.856). These data indicate that the unfolded map method provides adequate quantification of infarct size, even in the chronic phase, without complicated data processing.
The most suitable parameter to distinguish brain tumor using 201Tl-chloride and SPECT]	We performed 201Tl single photon emission CT (SPECT) studies on 62 patients with brain tumors prior to any therapy for the tumor. Ten lesions of open-scar and 17 patients without brain tumor were also studied. The SPECT imaging were initiated 5 min (early image) and 4 hours (delayed image) after injection with 74 MBq of 201Tl-chloride. For a semi-quantitative analysis, we used the ratio of delayed count density to the early count density of the tumor (Td/Te), the ratio of tumor to normal brain tissue (Te/B(e)) on the early SPECT and the index of T/B ((Td/Te)/(Bd/B(e))). Delay to early ratio of 34 normal brain tissue (Bd/B(e)) was 1.22 +/- 0.15 and tended to decrease with the age. The Td/Te ratio of meningioma and region of operation scar was about 0.75 which was less than that of normal brain tissue. In 31 patients with astrocytic tumor, Td/Te ratio was clearly higher in poorly differentiated tumor than in well differentiated one. The index of Td/Te ratio was superior to Te/B(e) or T/B ratio for differentiating brain tumor and grading astrocytic tumor.
Study of washout rate in patients with chronic renal failure by dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy--comparison with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy]	Fourteen patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) were studied by dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy. In this study, patients with coronary heart disease were excluded by clinical findings. 201Tl SPECT was performed at 8 min after injection of dipyridamole (0.56 mg/kg) and at a 3-hr delayed interval, and washout rates (WR) were calculated. Because UCG showed left ventricular hypertrophy (thickness; 13 +/ 2 mm) in CRF, the WR values were compared with those of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) (n = 9). In CRF, an average WR was 54.2 +/- 6.8% and was significantly higher than that in normal (46.2 +/- 9.1%, p < 0.05, n = 9), though WR in HCM was significantly low (26.9 +/- 11.4%, p < 0.01). Hematocrit value was 24.5 +/- 3.2% in CRF and was significantly lower than that in normal (37.8 +/- 3.6%, p < 0.001). On the other hands, hemoconcentration was observed in HCM (hematocrit; 44.6 +/- 3.6%, p < 0.001). WR in CRF, HCM and normal had significant correlation with hematocrit values (r = -0.796, p < 0.001). These results suggest that anemia or hemoconcentration may affect coronary blood flow and WR, and this should be considered when diagnosing coronary heart disease in CRF or HCM.
Segmentary coronary reserve in hypertensive patients with echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy, gamma-graphic ischaemia and normal coronary angiography.	Stress thallium scintigraphies are frequently positive in patients with systemic hypertension (SHT), especially in the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). In order to determine whether positive thallium perfusion scans in patients with LVH secondary to SHT and normal coronary angiographies are due to segmentary reduction of coronary reserve (CR), we have studied 10 out of 60 consecutive cases of SHT with echocardiographic LVH, using intracoronary Doppler. We compared coronary blood flow velocity at rest and post-papaverine (PP), and CR in at least two major coronary vessels, always including the one corresponding to the ischaemic segment. In the vessel with the least CR at rest, a new determination of CR was made under intracoronary nitroglycerin. A group of five normal patients acted as controls. The mean CR of the controls and patients, respectively, was 6.2 +/- 1.4 vs 2.7 +/- 0.9 (P < 0.001). In patients with positive thallium perfusion scans, the coronary arteries corresponding to the ischaemic segments had less CR (2.5 +/- 0.6) than arteries from non-ischaemic segments (3.4 +/- 1, P < 0.05). These differences were greater when the ischaemia was anterior. There was no correlation either between CR and left ventricular mass (r = 0.23) or rest coronary blood flow velocity (r = 0.07). Only one patient exhibited functional behaviour indicating reduced CR; this rose from 1.9 to 7.5 after nitroglycerin 300 micrograms. In conclusion, CR determined by intracoronary Doppler and papaverine shows segmentary differences both in normal patients and in patients with LVH and normal coronary angiograms. This could be the cause of segmental ischaemia detected by means of radionuclide stress tests.
Utility of thallium-201 and iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine in the scintigraphic detection of neuroendocrine neoplasia.	Metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) is a specific marker for neuroendocrine tumours, such as phaeochromocytoma, neuroblastoma, medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and paraganglioma, but it suffers in some cases (especially in MTC) from a lack of sensitivity. Thallium is a well-known marker of cellularity with a great sensitivity and a lack of specificity. In order to determine whether the association of these two markers is able to improve the detection of neuroendocrine lesions, 137 scintigraphic examinations using MIBG and thallium were performed in 101 patients referred for suspicion or follow-up of neuroendocrine tumours. Thallium chloride was first injected (1 MBq/kg), images being acquired about 20 min after injection; 123I-MIBG (4 MBq/kg) was then injected and images acquired 5 and 24 h later. In patients with phaeochromocytoma or neuroblastoma, thallium scintigraphy appeared of little help since no tumoural site was discovered by thallium accumulation alone. In contrast, thallium examination seemed of interest in the detection of paraganglioma and MTC, the association of the two radiopharmaceuticals increasing the number of detected sites.
Thallium myocardial perfusion tomography using intravenous dipyridamole combined with maximal dynamic exercise.	Exercise thallium imaging is effective and provides information on exercise tolerance and symptoms, but is less sensitive if exercise is submaximal. When dipyridamole alone is used for such patients, the exercise parameters are lost and high background uptake results. This study examines dipyridamole combined with maximal exercise, to capitalize on the strengths of both techniques. Thallium tomography was performed in 122 patients with dipyridamole (group 1), exercise (group 2), or dipyridamole with maximum exercise (group 3). In patients with coronary artery disease, thallium tomography was abnormal in 92, 93 and 95% (P = ns), with reversible ischaemia in 82, 81 and 84% (P = ns) in the three groups, respectively. Among patients in groups 2 and 3 who exercised submaximally, detection of individual arterial stenoses was improved in group 3 (P < 0.05) and larger defects were found (2.4 versus 4.2 segments, P < 0.01). In group 3, no serious complications occurred and fewer vasodilatory side effects were seen than in group 1 (P < 0.01). The heart to splanchnic count ratio in groups 2 and 3 (1.61 versus 1.65, P = ns) was significantly greater than in group 1 (1.28, P < 0.0001). Compared with exercise alone, additional dipyridamole improved diagnostic accuracy in patients with limited exercise potential. Compared with dipyridamole alone, additional exercise provided useful exercise information, reduced vasodilatory side effects and improved scan quality. Combined dipyridamole and exercise stress is safe, and could be used routinely, but a larger study is required to establish if there is an overall diagnostic improvement.
Reassessment of quantitative thallium-201 brain SPECT for miscellaneous brain tumors.	In order to reassess the value of quantitative thallium-201 brain SPECT in the differentiation of miscellaneous brain tumors, we studied a total of 89 patients--35 pre-operative patients suspected of having a brain tumor and 54 post-operative patients with a brain tumor. We came to the conclusion that quantitative Tl-201 brain SPECT was very useful in discriminating cerebral radiation necrosis from recurrent tumor, estimating residual tumor burden, and detecting tumor regrowth earlier in postoperative patients. In preoperative patients, however, Tl-201 SPECT cannot be used effectively to differentiate glioma from other intracranial tumors, although intense uptake of Tl-201 may provide evidence of glioblastoma or a hypervascular lesion.
99Tcm-HMPAO brain SPECT in the evaluation of prognosis after surgical resection of astrocytoma. Comparison with other noninvasive imaging techniques (CT, MRI and 201Tl SPECT).	High-grade astrocytoma represents the most common primary malignant brain tumour in the adult, and is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. The aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in predicting neurological function and tumour therapy response after surgical resection of astrocytoma. The correlation between 99Tcm-HMPAO studies and other noninvasive methods [computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 201Tl (SPECT)] was evaluated. The clinical population included 21 patients with previous surgical debulking of astrocytoma. All patients were evaluated with 99Tcm-HMPAO brain SPECT. Seven patients, who suffered progressive clinical deterioration after radiotherapy, underwent dual-isotope SPECT imaging with 201Tl and 99Tcm-HMPAO. Neurological examinations and CT were performed in all patients. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed in seven patients. Prior to radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy, the patients with neurological improvement during the follow-up evaluation commonly showed less intense abnormal 99Tcm-HMPAO uptake than the patients without neurological improvement. In addition, after therapy none of the former patients had increased 99Tcm-HMPAO uptake. Most patients without neurological improvement had evidence of high focal uptake. Computed tomography and MRI usually demonstrated pathological contrast enhancement regardless of the presence or absence of improvement of neurological function. Foci of high 201Tl accumulation were observed on SPECT images in five patients. In four of these patients, the 99Tcm-HMPAO was greater than in normal brain, and in two patients the 99Tcm-HMPAO uptake was lower than in normal brain. One patient with decreased 99Tcm-HMPAO uptake in a medium-sized lesion had a normal 201Tl study. Our hypothesis that 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT may be useful for providing prognostic information after surgical debulking of astrocytoma seems to be promising. Further studies are needed to document this new important role of 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT.
Difference in 201Tl accumulation on single photon emission computed tomography in benign and malignant thoracic lesions.	The difference in 201Tl-chloride (201Tl) accumulation on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) between 58 benign (58 cases) and 48 malignant (46 cases) thoracic lesions, each of more than 20 mm in diameter was investigated. In the 34 benign and 48 malignant lesions depicted in both early (15 min) and delayed (3 h) images there was no significant difference in the mean early and delayed uptake ratios of lesion to normal contralateral lung between benign and malignant. However, the retention index in the lesion derived from (delayed ratio--early ratio)/(early ratio) x 100% showed a significant difference (benign -4.30 +/- 13.6% versus malignant 23.3 +/- 18.9%, P < 0.01), indicating the poor 201Tl retention in the benign lesions. Using the criteria of nondepiction in the delayed image or a negative retention index, 81.1% accuracy and 95.2% predictive value for diagnosis of benign lesions were obtained. Thus, 201Tl SPECT appears to have potential usefulness in the diagnosis of benign thoracic lesions.
Resting technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile cardiac imaging in chronic coronary artery disease: comparison with rest-redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy.	We studied 19 patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 33% +/- 8%) by resting technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) and rest-redistribution thallium-201 cardiac imaging. Thallium and 99mTc-MIBI studies were visually analysed. Of 285 segments, 203 (71%) had normal thallium uptake, 48 (17%) showed reversible thallium defects and 34 (12%) showed irreversible thallium defects. Of these 34 irreversible thallium defects, 19 (56%) were moderate and 15 (44%) were severe. Of the corresponding 285 segments, 200 (70%) had normal 99mTc-MIBI uptake, while 37 (13%) showed moderate and 48 (17%) showed severe reduction of 99mTc-MIBI uptake. Myocardial segmental agreement for regional uptake score between initial thallium and resting 99mTc-MIBI images was 90% (kappa = 0.78). Segmental agreement between delayed thallium and resting 99mTc-MIBI images was 77% (kappa = 0.44). In particular, in 26 (9%) segments 99mTc-MIBI uptake was severely reduced while delayed thallium uptake was normal or only moderately reduced. These data suggest that although rest-redistribution thallium and resting 99mTc-MIBI cardiac imaging provide concordant results in the majority of myocardial segments, some segments with severely reduced resting 99mTc-MIBI uptake may contain viable but hypoperfused myocardium. Thus, conclusions on myocardial viability based on 99mTc-MIBI uptake should be made with caution in chronic coronary artery disease.
A new quantitative method for the analysis of cardiac perfusion tomography (SPET): validation in post-infarct patients treated with thrombolytic therapy.	In this study a new method for assessment of perfusion defects (PDs) derived from myocardial perfusion tomograms was evaluated in patients treated with thrombolytic therapy. Using global constraints and dynamic programming, a model-based delineation algorithm defined myocardial borders, the basal plane and absolute and relative PD size in 49 thallium-201 chloride (201TL CL) and 60 technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) tomograms. Tomographic (single-photon emission tomography: SPET) and planar quantification of PDs was compared to enzymatic infarct size as well as to global (LVEF) and regional ventricular function (RWM) obtained by contrast angiography. The algorithm delineated the myocardium and the valve plane in most cases, even when large PDs were present. Manual correction of the automatic delineation of the basal plane was necessary in less than 20% of the studies. Using 201Tl Cl, LVEF correlated better with tomographic PD (r = -0.67) than with planar PD (r = -0.54). Comparing planar to tomographic imaging using 99mTc-MIBI, a higher correlation with enzymatic infarct size (r = 0.73 vs 0.57) and with global ventricular function (r = 0.64 vs -0.52) was found when tomographic techniques were used. No close correlation between PD and RWM was found. The beneficial effect of thrombolysis was shown by a significant difference of PD in patients with open versus occluded infarct-related vessels. It can be concluded that this new automated algorithm for quantification of SPET perfusion defect size provides a useful tool in evaluating thrombolytic therapy.
Thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging after aortocoronary bypass in patients treated with sulodexide or ASA-dipyridamole]	The aim of this investigation was to compare the preventive effect of sulodexide, a glycosaminoglycan drug, tested versus ASA-dipyridamole association, on the occlusion of venous aortocoronary bypass. A group A of 23 patients, for a total of 22 anastomosis with internal mammary artery and 46 venous bypass, was treated with sulodexide 500 USL/day. A group B of 18 patients for a total of 19 anastomosis with internal mammary artery and 33 venous bypass, was treated with ASA-dipyridamole 300 mg + 400 mg/day. Three and 9 months after surgery, all patients underwent thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging, associated with ergometric test. At the first control after 3 months, reversible perfusion defect in one or more myocardial segments was observed in 8 patients of group A and 3 patients of group B (2 A patients and 1 B patient in non revascularized myocardial segments); after 9 months, reversible perfusion defects were observed in 4 A patients and in 4 B patients. After 3 months, non reversible perfusion defect imaging in non infarcted myocardial segments was observed in 2 A patients and in 1 B patient; after 9 months, in 1 patient of both groups. This research shows higher incidence, at first control after 3 months, of ischemic reversible perfusion defects in patients treated with sulodexide, with an evident improvement in some patients recontrolled after 9 months. At the last control after 9 months, the scintigraphic findings showed similar evidence of perfusion defects in both groups treated with sulodexide or ASA-dipyridamole, with concordant angiographic findings (78.6%). Our preliminary results are encouraging and suggest further widespread studies on sulodexide therapy.
Yield of myocardial perfusion study with Thallium 201 in coronary artery disease: planar analysis]	The yield of exercise thallium-201 scintigram was studied in a group of 101 patients with suspected coronary artery disease or with a history of an old acute myocardial infarction. The thallium perfusion imaging was performed with planar technology and was interpreted visually. Its results were compared with conventional exercise testing and the results of a coronary arteriography performed within 30 days. Global sensitivity for conventional exercise testing was 60.4%, which increased to 78.2% with the thallium study. Specificity was raised from 47.2 to 84.8%. In patients with one, two or three vessel disease, thallium scintigram was abnormal in 95.1%, 96.6% and 100% respectively (NS).
Evaluation of prognosis and myocardial ischemia using thallium in myocardial tomoscintigraphy]	Thallium scintigraphy holds a unique position amongst the methods available for evaluating the prognosis of coronary patients: it enables quantification of underperfused myocardium and evaluates already constituted ventricular damage (irreversible necrosis) and areas at risk of future coronary events (viable but ischemic myocardium). In a series of 1,926 patients who underwent exercise stress or dipyridamole Thallium myocardial scintigraphy for angina pectoris and followed up fort an average of 34 months, the following features were observed: the long-term prognosis in patients with normal myocardial scintigraphy (715 patients) was identical to that of a normal population of the same age (0.11% cardiovascular deaths per year) whereas the cardiovascular mortality was 15 times higher in cases with a pathological scintigraphy: finally, the long-term prognosis (cardiovascular deaths, infarcts or secondary revascularisation) was directly related to the severity of the initial lack of Thallium uptake. This method was used to assess the prognosis and evaluate the myocardial ischaemia in 75 patients who underwent complete surgical revascularisation fort ischaemia, 50 of whom had previous myocardial infarction: all patients had at least one arterial bypass graft: 39% of the myocardium was underperfused before revascularisation; this procedure reduced by 80% (p < 0.0001) the zones of reversible underperfusion but also zones of irreversible underperfusion by 17% (p = 0.04). The results were particularly impressive in patients who underwent revascularisation with an arterial pedicle (left and right internal mammary, gastroepiploic alone or in association) as 91% of the ischemic territories recovered on average 13 days after revascularisation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
High resolution pinhole SPECT for tumor imaging.	High-resolution, non-invasive, 3D-imaging techniques would greatly benefit the investigation of the localization properties of tumor-specific radiopharmaceuticals in laboratory animals. The present study reports how pinhole SPECT can be applied to tumor localization studies in small laboratory animals to provide high resolution SPECT images in vivo. Pinhole SPECT was performed using a rotating scintillation camera, equipped with a pinhole collimator. The sensitivity of a 2 mm diameter collimator at 45 mm from the source is 90 cps/MBq for 99mTc. The planar spatial resolution at a 45 mm distance is 2.2 mm. The transaxial spatial resolution, with a distance of 45 mm between the collimator aperture and the axis of rotation, is 3.1 mm. For SPECT imaging, spatial linearity is preserved across the usable field-of-view. The major advantage of the high resolution properties of pinhole tomography is demonstrated by the enhanced lesion-to-normal-brain uptake ratio achieved on tomographic slices as compared to planar images. For example, 201Tl tumor-to-normal-brain uptake ratios of 1.1 to 1.3 observed on planar images, corresponded to ratios ranging from 3.2 to 3.7 on the SPECT slices. Examples of the activity distributions of two radiopharmaceuticals in tumor and in normal brain for sagittal and coronal images are given. In all cases, tumors are clearly delineated on the pinhole SPECT slices. The present study shows that pinhole SPECT performed with standard SPECT instrumentation can give high spatial resolution images, with a FWHM approximately 3 mm and a sensitivity approximately 100 cps/MBq for 99mTc.
3D modeling in myocardial 201TL SPECT.	A method to model the left ventricular myocardium in thallium-201 Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) is presented. This method is based on the fitting of the morphological skeleton of the left ventricle to a truncated bullet. This automatic approach would provide a more reproducible visualization of the organ for clinical applications.
Evaluation of cardiac cone-beam single photon emission computed tomography using observer performance experiments and receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with a cone-beam collimator improves the trade-off between detection efficiency and spatial resolution for cardiac imaging. However, acquisitions using orbits where the focus remains in a plane do not provide sufficient data for exact reconstruction. In the current study the authors evaluate the clinical utility of planar-orbit cone-beam SPECT in detecting a simple myocardial defect.
Comparison of dobutamine stress echocardiography and stress thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography for detecting coronary artery disease.	Dobutamine stress echocardiography and stress thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were compared for detecting coronary artery disease in 120 consecutive patients who underwent concomitant quantitative coronary angiography. The left ventricle was divided into anterior, inferior, and lateral regions. Wall motion or perfusion abnormalities observed within each region were classified as ischemia or fixed abnormality. Both tests showed 81% agreement in all 120 patients. Complete agreement was observed in 77% of the 360 regions analyzed. The overall sensitivity of dobutamine stress echocardiography and thallium-201 SPECT for the detection of coronary artery disease was 85% and 89%, and the specificity was 93% and 85%, respectively. A good correlation was found between the wall motion score index and perfusion defect size at peak stress and at rest (r = 0.70). Dobutamine stress echocardiography and thallium-201 SPECT exhibit a comparable accuracy for diagnosing coronary artery disease, localizing coronary artery stenosis, and detecting regional myocardial abnormalities. The wall motion score index may be useful for evaluating the myocardial area at risk.
Correlation of the findings of thallium-201 chloride scans with those of other imaging modalities and histology following therapy in patients with bone and soft tissue sarcomas.	We performed a retrospective [corrected] study to evaluate the imaging potential of thallium-201 as compared with other imaging modalities in differentiating residual/recurrent tumors from post-therapy changes in patients with musculoskeletal sarcomas. 201Tl scans, magnetic resonance imaging (17), X-ray computed tomography (6) or contrast angiography (6) studies in 29 patients previously treated for musculoskeletal sarcomas were correlated with either histopathologic findings (26 patients) or 2-year clinical follow-up (three patients). All imaging studies were acquired within 2 weeks. Ratios of 201Tl tumor uptake to the contralateral (28 patients) or adjacent region of interest were calculated. When qualitative interpretation was in doubt, only those cases with a ratio of 1.5 or more were considered suggestive of recurrent of residual viable tumor tissue. Residual or recurrent tumor tissue was verified in 21 patients by biopsy. All had true-positive 201Tl scans while the other imaging modalities were true-positive in 20 and equivocal in one. In eight patients, there was no evidence of viable tumor tissue as proven by biopsy in five and long-term clinical follow-up in three. 201Tl scan was false-positive (ratio 1.5) in one patient and true-negative in seven while the other imaging modalities had four false-positives. The average 201Tl ratios were 2.8+/-1.1 in the true-positive cases and 1.3+/-0.3 in the true-negative cases. The percentage sensitivities, specificities, and accuracy for 201Tl were 100%, 87.5%, and 96.5% versus 95%, 50%, and 82.7% respectively for other imaging modalities. These results indicate that 201Tl scintigraphy is more accurate than other imaging modalities in differentiating residual/recurrent musculoskeletal sarcomas from post-therapy changes.
Assessment of acute myocardial necrosis after cardiopulmonary resuscitation and cardioversion by means of combined thallium-201/technetium-99m pyrophosphate tomography.	Diagnosis of acute myocardial necrosis by means of conventional electrocardiographic criteria or the release of cardiac enzymes is often difficult or even impossible in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation with subsequent cardiopulmonary resuscitation including several DC countershocks. Simultaneous thallium-201/technetium-99m pyrophosphate (PYP) tomography was prospectively applied to 57 patients without typical clinical or electrocardiographic signs of acute myocardial infarction within 48 h after successful resuscitation from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Scintigraphic evidence of acute necrosis was present in 23/57 patients (40%). Increased 99mTc-PYP uptake in the pericardial tissue was found in 24 patients (42%). Maximal creatine kinase (CK) concentration was increased in 50/57 patients (88%). CK-MB activity averaged 68+/-52 U/l in patients with positive and 17+/-13 U/l in patients with negative tomograms (P<0.0005), demonstrating the validity of 201Tl/99mTc-PYP tomography. It may be concluded that simultaneous 201Tl/99mTc-PYP tomography is a valuable tool for evaluation of myocardial necrosis after cardiopulmonary resuscitation including DC countershock. Acute myocardial necrosis, as indicated by scintigraphy, represents a potential trigger for the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation. Therefore, 201Tl/99mTc-PYP tomography can be recommended in order to guide further diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation in whom the underlying cause of the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation is obscure.
Assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability with technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile and thallium-201 rest redistribution in chronic coronary artery disease.	We compare thallium-201 rest redistribution and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) for the assessment of myocardial viability within technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (MIBI) perfusion defects in 27 patients with chronic stable coronary artery disease. The following studies were performed: (1) stress 99mTc-MIBI, (2) rest 99mTc-MIBI, (3) 201Tl rest-redistribution single-photon emission tomography, (4) [18F]FDG positron emission tomography. The left ventricle was devided into 11 segments on matched tomographic images. The segment with the highest activity at stress was taken as the reference (activity=100%). Perfusion defects at 99mTc-MIBI rest were classified as severe (activity<50%), moderate (activity 50%-60%) or mild (activity 60%-85%). Uptakes of [18F]FDG and rest-redistributed 201Tl were recognized as significant if they exceeded 50% of that in the reference segment. Among the 33 segments with severe 99mTc-MIBI rest perfusion defects, 21 had significant [18F]FDG and 10 significant rest-redistributed 201Tl uptake. As regards the 37 segments with moderate defects, [18F]FDG was present in 29 and 201Tl in 31, while of the 134 segments with mild defects, 128 showed [18F]FDG uptake, and 131, 201Tl uptake. In conclusion, there is an inverse relationship between the severity of 99mTc-MIBI perfusion defects and the uptake of rest-redistributed 201Tl and [18F]FDG. Both tracers are adequate markers of viability in mild and moderate defects; in severe defects 201Tl might underestimate the presence of viability as assessed by [18F]FDG.
Clinical utility of technetium-99m methoxisobutylisonitrile imaging in differentiated thyroid carcinoma: comparison with thallium-201 and iodine-131 Na scintigraphy, and serum thyroglobulin quantitation.	Recently, technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) has been used to image thyroid carcinoma. A prospective study was performed to compare the efficacy of 99mTc-MIBI to thallium-201 (201Tl) scintigraphy in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. The clinical utility of all radionuclide imaging modalities, i.e., 99mTc-MIBI, 201Tl, and iodine-131 Na (131I-Na), as well as serum thyroglobulin estimation, was evaluated. Thirty-four post-thyroidectomy patients (age range: 26-76 years) underwent 45 studies. Histopathologies studied included fourteen papillary, eight papillary-follicular, ten follicular, one Hrthle cell, and one medullary carcinoma of the thyroid. Following optimal stimulation of endogenous thyroid stimulating hormone (i.e, TSH 50 mU/ml), the patients underwent 201Tl and 99mTc-MIBI scintigraphy. Concomitant 131I-Na scintigraphy was performed and serum thyroglobulin levels were measured. Sixteen scan sets were performed prior to 131I-Na ablation therapy. Twenty-nine scan sets were performed following 131I-Na ablation therapy. The presence or absence of thyroid cancer was established by clinical, biochemical, radiologic, and/or biopsy findings. There was no significant difference in sensitivity and specificity of 201Tl scintigraphy versus 99mTc-MIBI scintigraphy in pre- and postablation studies. 131I-Na scintigraphy with determination of thyroglobulin level was sufficient in preablation studies. Among postablation patients, the addition of 99mTc-MIBI or 201Tl offered a higher diagnostic yield. Between the 201Tl and 99mTc-MIBI studies, there was a concordance of 69% in preablation and 97% among postablation patients (P=0.027). It is concluded that 99mTc-MIBI is a suitable alternative to 201Tl scintigraphy in thyroid carcinoma, especially following thyroidectomy and 131I-Na therapy. 131I-Na scintigraphy with serum thyroglobulin is adequate in both pre- and postablation patients. Among the post-131I-Na ablation patients, 99mTc-MIBI or 201Tl is extremely valuable for tumor localization, especially when the 131I-Na whole-body scan is negative. The combination of 99mTc-MIBI or 201Tl scintigraphy with 131I-Na and serum thyroglobulin offers the highest diagnostic yield.
Quantification of left ventricular size on exercise thallium-201 single-photon emission tomography.	The purposes of this study were to determine whether quantification of the left ventricular size on exercise thallium-201 single-photon emission tomography (SPET) correlates with echocardiographic measurements, whether the quantification reflects the severity of coronary artery disease, and whether it can provide supplementary information regarding the severity of coronary artery disease. In 42 control subjects and 110 patients who underwent coronary angiography, we performed exercise 201Tl SPET and quantified six non-regional markers: lung 201Tl uptake on an initial planar image (Lung/Heart), left ventricular width on a tomogram (Width), change in the Width from the initial to delayed tomograms (DeltaWidth), count ratio of the left ventricular cavity to the myocardium (C/M), count ratio of the lung to the myocardium (L/M), and count ratio of the lung to the left ventricular cavity (L/C). In 76 patients, furthermore, the Width was compared with echocardiographic measurements. The Width correlated with echocardiographic measurements (P<0.001). The Width and DeltaWidth were significantly different among zero-, one-, two- and three-vessel disease (P<0.001). However, the Width and DeltaWidth could not improve the power of discrimination for multi-vessel disease derived from the Lung/Heart. The six non-regional markers correlated with each other (P<0.001). Among the six markers, the Lung/Heart was only the independent discriminator for multi-vessel disease. In conclusion, quantification of the left ventricular size on exercise 201Tl SPET correlated with echocardiographic measurements and reflected the severity of coronary artery disease, but may be replaced with quantitation of the lung 201Tl uptake.
Identification of AIDS-related tuberculosis with concordant gallium-67 and three-hour delayed thallium-201 scintigraphy.	Concordant gallium-67 and thallium-201 uptake has been described in malignant lesions. More recently, 201Tl accumulation has been described in some benign conditions. The authors report three HIV-positive patients who underwent 67Ga and 201Tl scintigraphy. These studies revealed concordant 67Ga and 201Tl uptake and tumour was erroneously diagnosed. All three patients were finally diagnosed as having tuberculosis.
Prediction of in-hospital cardiac events using dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy performed very early after acute myocardial infarction.	Ischemic complications occur frequently during hospitalization after acute myocardial infarction. Dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy performed early after admission can detect residual ischemia, may have additional prognostic value and be useful in the management of these patients.
Coronary artery disease in patients with aortic abdominal aneurysm. Apropos of a consecutive series of 172 cases]	Coronary artery disease is common in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). It is responsible for half the operative deaths explaining the necessity of diagnosing asymptomatic coronary patients. Between 1980 and 1993, 172 patients aged 47 to 92 years (average 69 years) were operated for AAA. Fifty-four of them (31%) were known to have coronary artery disease; 30 preoperative coronary angiograms and 16 prophylactic coronary revascularisation procedures were performed before operating the AAA. In cases with ruptured AAA (42 cases) the operative mortality was 31% (13 patients) compared with 6% (8 patients) in those without rupture (130 cases). Myocardial disease was responsible for 25% of all deaths (2 out of 8) and for 40% of deaths (2 out of 5) in the subgroup of 54 coronary patients. The majority of non-lethal cardiac complications also occurred in this subgroup. On the other hand, no deaths were observed in the group of 16 patients who underwent myocardial revascularisation beforehand. Follow-up of the 151 patients discharged from hospital was complete (100%). With an average follow-up period of 3.5 years (range 5 months to 13 years), 39 secondary deaths have been observed (26%) including 6 (15%) of cardiac causes. In addition, 3 patients in the coronary subgroup and 1 patient from the non-coronary group underwent myocardial revascularisation after surgical cure of their AAA. Coronary artery disease may be totally asymptomatic and severe lesions go unrecognised; the main problem is therefore to detect silent myocardial ischaemia in the absence of totally reliable non-invasive techniques, in order to perform preventive coronary revascularisation in high risk patients before their surgery. Coronary angiography is essential in all documented cases of severe coronary artery disease; exercise testing and thallium scintigraphy should be proposed in cases with clinical or electrocardiographic presumption of angina. However, systematic investigation is not required in the absence of suggestive symptoms.
Effect of reconstruction arc in myocardial SPECT imaging--comparison between 180 degrees and 360 degrees arc--]	A series of thallium-201 (201Tl) and technetium-99m (99mTc) myocardial perfusion images with or without perfusion defects were acquired by 360 degrees arc using a triple-head camera. The vertical long, horizontal long, and short axis images of 201Tl and 99mTc with 360 degrees, 180 degrees, and opposite 180 degrees were identically reconstructed and reoriented without attenuation correction. In order to detect the detailed differences between 360 degrees (30 degrees - 390 degrees) and 180 degrees (30 degrees - 210 degrees) images, the opposite 180 degrees (210 degrees - 30 degrees) images were utilized. Opposite 180 degrees images revealed the contribution of those to the 360 degrees images. In the normal perfusion images, the CV (coefficient of variation) of the counts in 360 degrees images with 201Tl by the segments was larger than 180 degrees images. On the contrary, the CV of the counts in 360 degrees images with 99mTc was smaller than 180 degrees images. This difference, caused by the difference of photon energy, were detected mainly as the extent of counts decreasing in the deep segments in the opposite 180 degrees images. Lesion contrasts of the opposite 180 degrees images were lower than those of 180 degrees images due to distance related collimator response (the detector response of the collimated gamma camera varies with source-to-detector distance) and scatter. Therefore, lesion contrasts were more decreased in the 360 degrees images compared with those of 180 degrees images, especially in the segments of lateral and anterior walls. The differences in lesion contrasts between 201Tl and 99mTc images were mainly in the segments of inferior and posterior walls (p < 0.05). Lesion contrast was dependent on the location of the perfusion defects, reconstruction arc, and photon energy.
Diagnosis of lung cancer using functional image of 201Tl SPECT with parameter of 201Tl retention--evaluation of its applicability to post irradiated lung cancer]	Thallium-201 (201Tl) SPECT is a useful method for detecting lung cancer. Moreover, the 201Tl Retention Index (R.I.) reported by Tonami et al is now available for differentiating pulmonary lung cancer from benign lesions. The diagnosis of recurrent tumors is, however, difficult to establish as they are often shaded by radiation pneumonitis or fibrosis. Therefore, we employed functional images (F.I.) obtained using as parameter a modified version of the R.I. First we indicated the statistical value of untreated solitary lung tumor as follows: sensitivity 84.6%, specificity 80.0%, and accuracy 83.3%. In our assessment, the lesions with tumor size over 2.0 cm and R.I. by Tonami et al over 12.7 were detected as positive images. Secondly in assessment of 22 cases (23 lesions) of post irradiated lung cancer, the results obtained were: sensitivity 80.0%, specificity 92.3%, and accuracy 87.0%. 201Tl SPECT functional images seem to be useful for the diagnosis of recurrent lung cancer by shaded radiation pneumonitis and fibrosis.
A novel method for the assessment of autonomic neuropathy in type 2 diabetic patients: a comparative evaluation of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy and power spectral analysis of heart rate variability.	The correlation between the degree of sympathetic denervation measured through 123I-MIBG Myocardial Scintigraphy and Power Spectral Analysis of consecutive R-R records was investigated in order to evaluate their potential application for the assessment of myocardial autonomic neuropathy in patients with diabetes mellitus. This study comprised 42 patients with Type 2 diabetes. Low frequency (0.02-0.09 Hz) components of the power spectral density were measured as markers of sympathetic activity. The myocardial uptake of 123I-MIBG was measured by using the single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and the early and delayed images were recorded. Scoring from 0 to 3 of the 123I-MIBG uptake of various cardiac segments (7) was performed and the total uptake was calculated. The washout rate in the whole myocardium was determined. The values obtained in the group with diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) without orthostatic hypotension (OH) were significantly lower as compared to those of the (DAN (-)) group in the delayed images. The washout rate of the OH (-) group was also significantly higher than the DAN (-) group. There was significant difference between the images and the washout rate of OH (+) and OH (-) groups. There was a significant correlation between Power Spectral Analysis and SPECT (early, delayed images, and washout rate). Of these, the delayed image showed the strongest correlation (r = 0.55, p < 0.01). Further, the QTc interval showed a significant inverse correlation with the delayed image (r = -0.44, p < 0.05). In conclusion, these results suggest that the cardiac 123I-MIBG scintigraphy could be a useful method for the assessment of the myocardial autonomic neuropathy in patients with diabetes mellitus.
Correlation between dobutamine stress transesophageal echocardiography, thallium 201-dipyridamole scintigraphy and coronary angiography in the early detection of myocardial ischemia.	In order to establish the sensitivity and specificity of transesophageal stress echocardiography with dobutamine (TEE-dobutamine) in the early detection of myocardial ischemia we studied 30 consecutive patients from the Coronary Care Unit (CCU) of the Hospital de Cardiologa, Centro Mdico Nacional Siglo XXI. The results were correlated with thallium-201-dipyridamole scintigraphy (TDS), and coronary angiography. Two groups were formed: Group I-20 patients, 18 females/2 males, aged 37-73 years (mean 55 years) within the first week of myocardial infarction and/or unstable angina; Group II-10 patients, five males/five females, aged 35-65 years (mean 48 years) with atypical chest pain but with high suspicion of CHD. All group I patients, and none of group II, had significant stenoses on coronary angiography. Twenty patients had a positive TDS (18 patients from group I and two from group II). Twenty one patients had a positive test with TEE-dobutamine, 20 from group I and one from group II, which yields a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 90%, positive predictive value of 95% and negative predictive value of 100%.
Use of 201Thallium brain SPECT, image registration, and semi-quantitative analysis in the follow-up of brain tumors.	To assess the use of 201Thallium SPECT and of Thallium (Tl) uptake indices in the detection and follow-up of cerebral tumors.
Exercise 201Tl/rest 99Tcm-tetrofosmin myocardial perfusion imaging: a convenient protocol for the assessment of coronary disease.	Standard exercise thallium-201 (201Tl)-redistribution protocols for the detection of coronary artery disease take about 4 h to complete. This is inconvenient for both patients and staff. The higher energy technetium-99m (99Tcm) emissions permit immediate imaging after 201Tl with minimal crosstalk. This study assessed exercise gated planar 201Tl scintigraphy (55 MBq) followed by rest gated planar 99Tcm-tetrofosmin scintigraphy (250 MBq) in 32 patients. The results showed a high sensitivity for the detection of coronary disease (100%) in this highly selective group of patients. In order to diagnose myocardial infarction accurately, it was necessary to view the gated 201Tl images and assess regional wall motion in a defect zone. This gave a specificity of 88% and a sensitivity of 71% for the prediction of myocardial infarction on the angiographic ventriculogram. Stress 201Tl/rest 99Tcm-tetrofosmin is a useful short protocol for patients unable to complete the full 4-h exercise 201Tl-redistribution study.
201TL SPECT for evaluating head and neck cancer.	Thallium-201 (201Tl) has come to be widely used in diagnosis of several kinds of malignant tumor, but its usefulness in diagnosing head and neck cancer has not been established.
Extensive soft-tissue involvement of dermatomyositis detected by whole-body scintigraphy with 99mTc-MDP and 201TL-chloride.	The authors present a case of extensive soft-tissue radioactivity visualized on both 99mTc-MDP and 201Tl-chloride scintigrams in a patient with dermatomyositis and colon cancer. Incidentally, diffuse and intense uptake of 99mTc-MDP was observed in the shoulder girdles, anterior chest wall, psoas muscles, both proximal thighs and right lower limb, corresponding to the sites of symptomatic muscles, even though skin lesions were limited and no calcification was detected on radiographs. Moreover, 201Tl-chloride was also intensely accumulated in nearly the same sites as the symptomatic muscles as shown on the 99mTc-MDP bone scintigrams. Whole-body scintigraphy with 99mTc-MDP and 201Tl-chloride is a useful tool to detect occult muscle lesions with dystrophic calcification and hyperemia in dermatomyositis.
Technetium-99m tetrofosmin uptake in lung cancer: comparison with thallium-201.	Technetium-99m tetrofosmin and thallium-201 lung SPECT imaging were performed in a patient with adenocarcinoma of the lung. Significant activities in the lung lesion were clearly depicted on both technetium-99m tetrofosmin and thallium-201 SPECT imaging. The early uptake, delayed uptake ratios and retention indices of the tumor were 2.75, 2.39 and -1.31 for thallium-201 imaging and 3.09, 2.27 and -26.5 for technetium-99m tetrofosmin imaging, respectively. This preliminary report suggests that technetium-99m tetrofosmin may have potential as a tumor imaging agent.
The role of 201Tl scintigraphy in evaluating proliferative activity in thyroid neoplasms.	To identify the relationship between the uptake of 201Tl and the proliferative activity in thyroid neoplasms, 201Tl scintigraphy was performed in 57 patients with thyroid neoplasms. 201Tl uptake ratio was calculated in both the early and the delayed images and then compared with factors representing cellular or practical proliferative activity of the lesions. The labeling index (LI) for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was determined quantitatively by flow cytometry. There was a significant correlation between the uptake ratio and LI for PCNA. The correlation coefficient for the delayed ratio (DR) vs. LI was better than that for the early ratio (ER) vs. LI. As parameters for practical proliferation, the surgical stage in primary thyroid carcinoma or 131I uptake in recurrent thyroid carcinoma was focused on. DR was strongly related to these parameters, regardless of the histopathological features or size of the lesions. Our results suggest that 201Tl uptake in delayed thyroid scan is useful in assessing proliferative activity in thyroid neoplasms.
Gated resting Tl-201 SPECT in the evaluation of myocardial viability.	Gating of resting Tl-201 SPECT to evaluate myocardial viability is now clinically feasible. Two cases are presented to illustrate the additional information of wall motion and wall thickening obtained from gating. This additional information may improve the classification of viable myocardium and requires further study.
Diagnosis of malignant change in Paget's disease by Tl-201.	Scintigraphy using Tc-99m MDP and Tl-201 was performed in a patient with polyostotic Paget's disease and sarcomatous degeneration in the right iliac bone. Tc-99m MDP imaging showed abnormal uptake in both types of lesions. Tl-201 imaging showed increased uptake in the sarcomatous lesion and absent uptake in pagetic lesions. This result supports the idea that Tl-201 scintigraphy may have a potential role to play in the differentiation of Paget's disease from malignancy. To the authors' knowledge, Tl-201 has never been reported for the detection of sarcomatous change of pagetic bone.
Rapid differential diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis and primary central nervous system lymphoma by thallium-201 SPECT.	This study sought to assess whether 201Tl brain SPECT can significantly reduce the time required for the differential diagnosis of primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma and cerebral toxoplasmosis in patients with AIDS.
Hyperperfusion and hypermetabolism in brain radiation necrosis with epileptic activity.	We report a case of high uptake of 11C-methionine (MET), 18F-FDG (FDG) and 201Tl-Cl (Tl) in brain radiation necrosis. Twenty-one years previously, the patient had undergone surgery and radiation therapy consisting of 60-Gy for ependymoma in the anterior horn of the right lateral ventricle. The clinical features consisting of frequent seizures of the left face and arm suddenly appeared 2 wk before admission. MRI depicted a Tl and T2-prolonged lesion in the right frontal lobe. Abnormally high uptake in this area demonstrated by MET-PET, FDG-PET, Tl-SPECT or HMPAO-SPECT suggested the presence of a recurrent tumor. A craniotomy was then performed and an intraoperative electrocorticogram showed continuous epileptic spikes in the lesion. The epileptic foci were resected and the histological features of the lesion were consistent with radiation necrosis. After surgery, the seizures disappeared and the postoperative examinations with MET-PET, FDG-PET, Tl-SPECT and HM-PAO-SPECT no longer showed abnormally high uptake. Hypermetabolism and hyperperfusion related to epileptic fits are therefore thought to result in high uptake of MET, FDG and Tl in radiation necrosis.
Tumor imaging in nuclear medicine]	Tumor imaging in nuclear medicine has been improved by imaging instruments and newly developed radiopharmaceuticals. One of the imaging developments is a SPECT system using three-detector system. Its each detector rotates 120 degrees when SPECT projection data are acquired and we can save the scanning time and get a high resolution image which is less than 10 mm FWHM. About radiopharmaceuticals 99mTc MDP and 57Ga-citrate are used most commonly for detecting early metastatic lesions in the body. 201Tl chloride and 99mTc MIBI as used for cardiac imaging are also used for tumor detection. 111In-DTPA-D-Phe-octreotide are developed for detection of somatostatin receptor and will be used for many kinds of tumor such as small cell lung cancer, meningioma, malignant lymphoma and gastrointestinal hormone producing tumor.
The safety of dipyridamole-thallium imaging in patients with critical aortic valve stenosis and angina.	Angina pectoris occurs in many patients with critical aortic valve stenosis, but in less than 50% of cases is it due to atherosclerotic coronary disease. Pre-operative coronary angiography is used to determine whether coronary revascularization is required in addition to aortic valve replacement. The aim of this study was to determine the safety and image quality of dipyridamole-thallium imaging (DPT) in excluding coronary artery disease requiring a coronary artery bypass graft in patients with aortic valve stenosis requiring aortic valve replacement. Dipyridamole-thallium imaging and coronary angiography were performed less than one month apart in patients with clinical and echo-Doppler evidence of aortic valve stenosis requiring aortic valve replacement. Coronary angiography and DPT were each interpreted by experienced observers blind to the other result. The safety of DPT was judged by symptoms, ECG changes, haemodynamic effects and the need for stress reversal. Image quality was determined from the myocardial-to-background thallium uptake ratio in a normal segment. Twelve patients with aortic valve stenosis (gradient 95 +/- 24 mmHg) were studied, all of whom had left ventricular hypertrophy. The dominant symptom was angina pectoris in eight patients, syncope in three and dyspnoea in one. None had previous myocardial infarction, but two were smokers, six were hyperlipidaemic and one was hypertensive. The patients tolerated DPT well and only one required stress reversal. The quality of the DPT images was good. The DPT image was entirely normal in eight (66%) patients, none of whom had coronary artery disease. Reversible defects were seen in four patients, all of whom had significant coronary artery disease. We conclude that DPT is safe in patients with aortic valve stenosis and angina pectoris. The image quality is good despite left ventricular hypertrophy. In patients with angina pectoris and aortic valve stenosis, coronary angiography can safely be restricted to those with abnormal myocardial perfusion results.
Serum amyloid type A may be a predictor of restenosis.	Elevation of acute phase proteins [C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid type A (SAA)] has been demonstrated in unstable angina with an adverse clinical prognosis.
Nuclear cardiology, Part III: Scintigraphic evaluation of cardiac perfusion.	After reading Part III of this series of nuclear cardiology articles, the technologist should be able to: (a) compare and contrast radiopharmaceuticals used for myocardial perfusion imaging; (b) describe imaging protocols used for detecting coronary artery disease; and (c) describe imaging patterns seen following reconstruction of myocardial images.
Myocardial viability. Study of viability by myocardial scintigraphy]	FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES: Myocardial scintigraphy is a metabolic approach to myocardial viability visualizing the localization, the extent and to some degree the quantity of non-functional yet viable myocardial tissue. Potential for functional recovery cannot be ascertained directly from the scintigram but can be inferred from commonly observed behavior after blood flow has been restored. Myocardial scintigraphy is thus fundamentally different from other functional exploration methods such as echocardiography or nuclear magnetic resonance imaging which can detect residual contractile capacity unmasked by inotropic stimulation. It must be remembered however that such 'forced' contractility may not necessarily be expresses spontaneously after revascularization and that, however detected, truly viable myocardium may not recover normal contractility after reperfusion when associated with non-transmural infarction or diffuse fibrosis. PET AND THALLIUM 201 SCANS: Positron emission tomography (PET) is the gold standard. Accomplished after administration of an isotope labeled substance (18-fluoro-deoxyglucose, FDG), the PET scan visualizes metabolic activity in viable myocardium. Special equipment is however required and facilities are limited, particularly in France. Thallium 201 scans can be acquired with conventional gamma cameras and protocols have been widely developed with nearly equivalent performance in certain situations of doubtful residual viability after post-infarction thrombolysis or angioplasty. It must be noted however that in such cases, search for homolateral or contralateral ischemia may be the main objective rather than the detection of residual viability. A 3-step thallium 201 scintigraphy protocol with stress, 4-hr redistribution then imaging after reinjection is usually sufficient to document ischemia or viability warranting revascularization. The problem is quite different for patients with major myocardial dysfunction and histological remodeling due to hypokinetic dilated cardiomyopathy. In such types of myocardium, chances of recovering inotropic capacity are quite limited and detecting viable tissue would be technically difficult; however with a proper protocol (without stress, resting images late after injection), thallium 201 scintigraphy can be helpful.
Assessment of "microvascular no-reflow phenomenon" using technetium-99m macroaggregated albumin scintigraphy in patients with acute myocardial infarction.	The aim of this study was the scintigraphic evaluation of clinical no-reflow phenomenon.
Transmyocardial laser as an adjunct to minimally invasive CABG for complete myocardial revascularization.	To achieve complete myocardial revascularization in patients with diffuse coronary artery disease and patients at high risk if they undergo cardiopulmonary bypass such as severe systemic disease or diffuse arteriosclerosis of the aorta, we have adopted the technique of combining direct coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass with transmyocardial laser revascularization.
Safety of dobutamine-atropine stress myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.	Dobutamine stress testing is increasingly used for the diagnosis and functional evaluation of coronary artery disease. However, the relationship between myocardial perfusion abnormalities and complications of the test has not been studied.
Does the extended use of arterial grafts compromise the myocardial recovery after coronary artery bypass grafting in left ventricular dysfunction?	To assess the prognostic factors of myocardial recovery expected after coronary bypass surgery and the impact of surgical technique used, a prospective non-randomized study including a 1-year postoperative evaluation of left ventricular function was performed in patients with left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 0.40).
On the application of the triple energy window method to the 201Tl imaging]	In the radionuclide imaging by 201Tl several K-X rays are acquired, so it is difficult to eliminate scattered photons in the acquired photons. This paper describes the limitation and efficiency of the triple energy window (TEW) method in the application of 201Tl myocardial studies. We evaluated the TEW method by simulations and the setting of the parameters in the TEW method were 20, 30 and 40% for the width of the main window, 3, 5 and 7% for the width of the two sub-windows. Moreover, the location of the main window was shifted by each 1 keV from 60 to 80 keV. Simulation results were evaluated with the mean square error between true scattered photons and estimated scattered photons. The results show that the mean square error was minimized when the widths of the main window were 20, 30 and 40%, and the centers of the main window were 66-68, 69-70 and 72-73 keV, respectively.
Long-term prognostic value of exercise echocardiography compared with exercise 201Tl, ECG, and clinical variables in patients evaluated for coronary artery disease.	The accuracy of exercise echocardiography and 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is similar in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD). However, comparative data on long-term prognosis are lacking.
Contrast magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of myocardial viability in patients with stable coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction.	The utility of contrast MRI for assessing myocardial viability in stable coronary artery disease (CAD) with left ventricular dysfunction is uncertain. We therefore performed cine and contrast MRI in 24 stable patients with CAD and regional contractile abnormalities and compared MRI findings with rest-redistribution 201Tl imaging and dobutamine echocardiography.
Effect of 360 degrees and 180 degrees rotation SPET acquisitions on myocardial polar map: comparison of 201Tl-, 99Tcm- and 123I-labelled radiopharmaceuticals.	Both 360 degrees and 180 degrees rotation acquisition methods have been used in myocardial single photon emission tomography (SPET) studies. We compared both methods using 201Tl, 99Tcm and 123I radiopharmaceuticals with phantoms and clinical models. Myocardial phantom studies with anterior and inferior defects were performed using 201Tl, 99Tcm and 123I. Clinical models of 14 typical situations, including normal subjects, patients with anterior or inferior defects and a high right hemi-diaphragm, were studied. The radiopharmaceuticals were 201Tl, 99Tcm-sestamibi, 123I-BMIPP and 123I-MIBG. Four sets of 180 degrees anterior rotation data with starting angles of (A) posterior, (B) LPO 30 degrees, (C) LPO 60 degrees and (D) left lateral direction were generated and compared with 360 degrees rotation SPET. A polar map display was used for quantification. In phantom studies, the defect contrast on the map was higher in the anterior defect with 180 degrees rotation than with 360 degrees rotation. However, it was decreased in the inferior defect, particularly with 201Tl, because of decreased wall activity around the defect. In the patient model with anterior or inferior defects, the defect contrast was improved with 180 degrees SPET by up to 10%. A slight decrease in the normal region was also noted in the 180 degrees reconstruction. The effect of diffuse liver activity on the inferior region depended on the rotation range. A patient with a high right hemi-diaphragm showed a lower inferior count with 360 degrees SPET. In conclusion, the 360 degrees acquisition was superior to the 180 degrees acquisition in the phantom with defects. Clinically, the quantitative differences in radionuclide types (99Tcm, 123I or 201Tl) were not significant for quantifying a moderate degree (50-60% of peak count) of defect. However, we note quantitative variation depending on the rotation range in the 180 degrees method.
Detection of lung lesions and lymph nodes with 201Tl SPET.	The aim of this study was to characterize lung lesions by means of the uptake, retention and washout of 201Tl, and to quantify the sensitivity of 201Tl SPET (single photon emission tomography) in detecting mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes. A total of 68 patients with lung lesions (tumours and inflammation) underwent both helical computed tomography (CT) and 201Tl SPET examinations. Uptake, retention and washout parameters were calculated from early and delayed 201Tl SPET by drawing regions of interest over the primary lesion and the background of the lung. The findings on 201Tl SPET were compared with those on CT and surgical findings. A significant difference in the retention index (RI) was observed between primary malignant and benign lesions. In detecting lymph nodes, the sensitivity, specificity and negative predictive value were 83%, 60% and 90% respectively for early 201Tl SPET, and 50%, 80% and 80% respectively for delayed 201Tl SPET. 201Tl SPET with semi-quantitative analysis, especially RI, helps to differentiate between malignant and benign lung lesions. Lymph nodes larger than 1 cm on CT but not showing 201Tl uptake could be considered non-metastatic lesions.
The value and correlates of left ventricular cavity assessment in dipyridamole 201Tl SPET studies.	Left ventricular cavity (LVC) enlargement during SPET dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial perfusion imaging studies is a proven marker of severity of coronary artery disease. Nevertheless, the influence of the extent of myocardial infarct and ischaemia on the degree of LVC enlargement both at rest and with dipyridamole has not been clearly analysed. One hundred and one patients were studied by both dipyridamole myocardial perfusion imaging and radionuclide ventriculography within 1 week. The left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 57 +/- 9 in normal resting LVC patients (group I), 43 +/- 8 in mild LVC enlargement patients (group II) and 28 +/- 5 in moderate-to-severe LVC enlargement patients (group III). The number of fixed defects was increased in patients in group II and group III, but there was no significant differences in the number of ischaemic segments among groups. The number of ischaemic segments was much higher in patients with transient cavity dilatation than those without cavity change; nonetheless, both LVEF and the numbers of fixed segments were unchanged. The degree of LVC enlargement at rest strongly reflects the resting left ventricular systolic function as well as the extent of previous myocardial infarct. On the other hand, transient cavity dilatation during dipyridamole infusion can only reflect the extent of viable myocardium at risk.
Stress and rest myocardial SPET quantification with 201Tl and 99Tcm-tetrofosmin: a comparison.	99Tcm-tetrofosmin is a new myocardial perfusion agent that has excellent physical and pharmacokinetic characteristics for performing tomographic myocardial perfusion studies. The aim of this study was to compare the behaviour of 99Tcm-tetrofosmin and 201Tl in the assessment of ischaemia and viability in patients with previous myocardial infarction. Twenty consecutive patients who had suffered infarction and been referred for assessment of ischaemia and myocardial viability were enrolled into the study. Each patient underwent two stress tests performed no more than 10 days apart, one with a 201Tl exercise-reinjection-redistribution method and one with a 99Tcm-tetrofosmin short protocol (exercise-rest). The results were quantified using polar maps to represent images for stress, rest and reversibility. The post-stress images showed there was a slight tendency to overestimate defect size with 99Tcm-tetrofosmin in the lateral region (P < 0.006). We found no significant differences between the two tracers when comparing reversibility. The same defect size at rest were obtained when the maps for 201Tl with uptake of 50% were compared with those for 99Tcm-tetrofosmin with uptake of 45%. Agreement between the two agents for assessment of viability was 93%. We conclude that the quantitative assessment of myocardial ischaemia and uptake of 99Tcm-tetrofosmin at rest are comparable to those obtained with 201Tl in patients who have suffered myocardial infarction.
Detection of lung and chest tumours using 99Tcm-tetrofosmin: comparison with 201Tl.	The aim of this study was to assess the usefulness of 99Tcm-tetrofosmin for detecting tumours of the lungs and adjacent structures and to compare the results with those for 201Tl. In the 18 patients studied, there were 30 lesions in total. Dual-isotope SPET acquisitions were performed 10 min and 3 h after the administration of 99Tcm-tetrofosmin and 201Tl. Image quality and semi-quantitative parameters were evaluated for both tracers. All lesions were detected by the two radiopharmaceuticals on both the early and delayed images. In seven patients, the image quality of 99Tcm-tetrofosmin was better than that of 201Tl. For the detection of metastatic lymph nodes, the delayed 201Tl and the early 99Tcm-tetrofosmin images were superior. No significant difference was observed between the uptake ratios of the two tracers. 99Tcm-tetrofosmin showed significantly (P < 0.001) higher washout than 201Tl from both the lesions and normal lungs, although washout of 201Tl from normal lungs was significantly higher than that from the lesions. In conclusion, 99Tcm-tetrofosmin may be helpful for detecting tumours of the lungs and adjacent structures, but has limited applicability in differentiating between malignant and benign tumours and may not be used instead of 201Tl to detect malignant tumours of the lungs.
Exercise-induced abnormal blood pressure responses are related to subendocardial ischemia in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	We examined by thallium-201 scintigraphy whether exercise-induced abnormal blood pressure response (BPR) is related to myocardial ischemia.
Tl-201 myocardial SPECT in patients with systemic arterial diseases.	We compared the results of Tl-201 myocardial SPECT of patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO), abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), and Takayasu arteritis (TA), so that coronary artery disease could be evaluated in them. Twenty-three patients (ASO, 9; AAA, 8; TA, 6) had Tl-201 myocardial SPECT with stress testing, and SPECT data was assessed qualitatively and quantitatively. Qualitative analysis showed that myocardial perfusion was decreased most in patients with ASO, followed by patients with AAA, and was minimally decreased in patients with TA. Quantitative analysis indicated that segmental uptake was significantly less in four segments in ASO compared with TA, less in two segments in AAA compared with TA, and less in two segments in ASO compared with AAA. Thus patients with ASO and AAA were found to have a marked abnormality in Tl-201 myocardial SPECT, indicating that this procedure should be performed in these patients. In patients with TA, however, because of minimal abnormality in myocardial perfusion, the role of SPECT is limited.
Combined scatter and attenuation correction for 201Tl myocardial perfusion SPECT using OS-EM algorithm]	There are two possible ways to obtain scatter-corrected images with the ML-EM (maximum likelihood expectation maximization) algorithm: one is the subtraction of scatter estimate si from projection data pi, and then (pi-si) is used for scatter-corrected projection data (denoted as SC(T)); the other method is the addition of scatter estimate si to the projections calculated from the reconstructed image without performing data subtraction (SC(E)). This paper investigated these two ML-EM algorithms of combined scatter and attenuation correction on 201Tl myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging. Scatter windows were placed one full width at half maximum (FWHM) below and above the photopeak centerline. The scatter fraction in the primary peak was estimated using trapezoidal approximation by the triple energy window method. Phantom and clinical images were reconstructed using 6 iterations of ordered subsets EM algorithm (OS-EM). A cylindrical phantom with a cold-rod insert and a heart/thorax phantom with liver insert were used to evaluate scatter and the attenuation compensation technique. A cylindrical phantom filled with uniform 201Tl solution was used to evaluate statistical noise. The percent root-mean-square uncertainty (%RMSU) was used as a quantitative measure of noise amplification. %RMSU showed that the SC(E) method amplified noise less in comparison with the SC(T) method, however, no significant difference in image quality was observed between the two methods. In conclusion, both the SC(T) and SC(E) methods provided significant and similar improvement in the removal of scatter in 201Tl myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging.
Fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose cardiac imaging using a modified scintillation camera.	Conventional 201TI and hexakis 2-methoxy-2-isobutyl isonitrile studies are less accurate as compared to FDG PET in the prediction of functional recovery after revascularization in patients with injured but viable myocardium. The introduction of a dual-head variable-angle-geometry scintillation camera equipped with thicker crystals (5/8 in.) and high-resolution, ultrahigh-energy collimators capable of 511 keV imaging has permitted FDG SPECT to provide information equivalent to that of PET for the detection of injured but viable myocardium in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease. The development of standardized glucose-loading protocols, including glucose-insulin-potassium infusion and the potential use of nicotinic acid derivatives, has simplified the method of obtaining consistently good-to-excellent quality FDG SPECT cardiac studies. FDG SPECT may become the modality of choice for evaluating injured but viable myocardium because of enhanced availability of FDG, logistics, patient convenience, accuracy and cost-effectiveness compared to PET.
Paradoxical hypotension during dobutamine infusion for myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.	Dobutamine as a predominant beta-1 agonist increases heart rate and myocardial contractility and at sufficient high doses, it also increases systolic blood pressure. This study was undertaken to describe instances of paradoxical hypotension during dobutamine infusion for TI-201 myocardial perfusion SPECT study and the relationship between scintigraphic findings and hypotension occurred during dobutamine infusion.
