Central pain from cerebral abscess: thalamic syndrome in AIDS patients with toxoplasmosis.	We describe two patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who developed classic thalamic syndrome (TS) due to Toxoplasma abscesses in the thalamic region. Treatment with amitriptyline provided substantial relief in both patients. Postmortem examination in one case revealed a lesion in the internal capsule and thalamic reticular nucleus. These observations indicate that (1) TS can result from an isolated lesion in the internal capsule and reticular nucleus of the thalamus, (2) cerebral abscess can cause classic TS, (3) central pain can be added to the many pain syndromes that afflict AIDS patients, and (4) an analgesic response to amitriptyline is possible in these patients.
Thalamic hemorrhage. 30 cases studied: clinico-tomodensitometric correlations.	The clinico-tomographic correlations in 30 patients hospitalized for primary thalamic hemorrhage were studied. Arterial hypertension, observed in 90% of patients, represented the most important risk factor. Twenty-six subjects showed a sensory-motor hemisyndrome contralaterally to the lesion, nineteen showed alteration in level of consciousness from confusion to stupor and coma. Twelve subjects had poorly reactive pupils and eleven speech disturbances with involvement of the left thalamus. Seven patients died following hemorrhage; all subjects presented ventricular bleeding, severe disturbance of consciousness and arterial hypertension. On admission to hospital impairment of consciousness was the most significant unfavourable prognostic factor.
Subcortical aphasia from a thalamic abscess.	A patient is reported who was treated successfully for a left thalamic abscess that resulted in subcortical aphasia. A SPECT scan showed large areas of hypoperfusion in the cortex of the left hemisphere. At follow up after seven months there was marked improvement in the language disorder and the cortical hypoperfusion. It is suggested that aphasia in patients with subcortical lesions results from secondary cortical dysfunctions. The evidence is confined to patients with stroke lesions. The possible implications of this case on current theories of pathophysiological mechanisms, in particular the ischaemic penumbra theory and the cortical diaschisis theory, are briefly discussed. Cortical diaschisis may be the appropriate explanation in this patient.
Independent predictors of morbidity after image-guided stereotactic brain biopsy: a risk assessment of 270 cases.	Image-guided stereotactic brain biopsy is associated with transient and permanent incidences of morbidity in 9 and 4.5% of patients, respectively. The goal of this study was to perform a critical analysis of risk factors predictive of an enhanced operative risk in frame-based and frameless stereotactic brain biopsy.
Selective anterograde amnesia with thalamus and hippocampal lesions in neuro-Behcet's disease.	Anterograde amnesia and minimal retrograde amnesia with thalamic and hippocampal lesions in neuro-Behcet's disease is rare. A 50-year-old man presented with forgetfulness and severe memory disturbance after suffering multiple oral and genital aphthous ulcers with erythema nodosum. A neurological examination and a neuropsychological assessment revealed prominent anterograde memory impairment without focal neurological deficits. On brain MRI there were high signal intensity lesions involving right anterior thalamus, left posterior basal ganglia, and left hippocampus. This is a quite selective anterogrde memory deficit in a case of neuro-Behcet's disease caused by parenchymal lesions in the thalamus and hippocampus.
Central post-stroke pain]	Central post-stroke pain (CPSP) is known since the famous Dejerine-Roussy syndrome and its description has not improved. The subject has however been revived over the last decade thanks to advances in central nervous system imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the description of allodynia functional phenomena with fMRI, the study of opioid receptors, and above all, the analysis of pain pathways by laser-evoked potentials. Progress has also occurred in CPSP treatment with motor cortex stimulation, which probably opens a period of neuromodulation of the cortical areas controlling pain. The thalamus plays a prominent role in this disorder of central control of pain.
Focal dystonia secondary to cerebral toxoplasmosis in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome.	A variety of movement disorders have been reported in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and cerebral toxoplasmosis. We describe a 29-year-old man with left arm and hand focal dystonia secondary to Toxoplasma abscesses in the right lenticular nucleus and thalamus. Although a few cases of dystonia have been reported in AIDS, this patient represents the first reported case of focal dystonia secondary to toxoplasmosis.
Relationship between motor disturbance and involvement of internal capsule in hypertensive thalamic hemorrhage]	We treated a consecutive series of 309 patients with hypertensive thalamic hemorrhage from April 1981 to December 1987. In 99 cases of involvement of the internal capsule, the relationship between the extent of destruction of the internal capsule and motor disturbance was clinically investigated and discussed. First, these 99 cases were classified into three groups on the basis of the location of the hematoma in the internal capsule on the CT image. All the cases were confined to the anterior, middle and posterior portions of the posterior limb of the internal capsule. The correlation between hematoma extension and the severity of motor weakness, its improvement nd prognosis were discussed. The severity of motor weakness was found not to be related to hematoma extension. On the other hand, the prognosis was frequently poor when the hematoma was located at the posterior portion within the posterior limb of the internal capsule. In hypertensive thalamic hemorrhage, there seemed to be a narrow and significant area within the posterior limb of the internal capsule which determined morbidity. And, as a matter of course, the nearer the hematoma was located to the border between the middle and posterior portions, the worse the outcome was. Cases treated by aspiration surgery were evaluated to investigate the utility of aspiration surgery for thalamic hemorrhage. (Special attention was given to the ADL of those cases with severe motor weakness.) When the hematoma was located at the posterior portion of the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the percentage of patients with good outcome was significantly higher in the aspirated group than in the medical group (p less than 0.05).
Numbness in the tip of the tongue and lower lip caused by thalamic hemorrhage.	Although patients with isolated oral syndrome or facial sensory loss following stroke of thalamic ventroposteromedial (VPM) nucleus have been reported, there have been no reports of numbness in the tip of the tongue and lower lip. Furthermore, symptoms in the tip of the tongue caused by stroke are typically characterized as gustatory sensory disturbances. A 62-year-old hypertensive man experienced an acute onset of severe numbness in the left tip of the tongue and ipsilateral lower lip. Neurological examination revealed no other abnormalities except for the aforementioned numbness. Head computed tomography showed a small hematoma in the medial part of the right thalamus, most likely within the VPM nucleus. The somatosensory impulse of the tongue is conveyed via the lingual nerve, and it reaches the contralateral medial VPM proper via the trigeminal spinal nucleus. Therefore, thalamic stroke mainly involving the medial VPM proper has the potential to elicit numbness in the tip of the tongue. A major portion of the VPM nucleus is vascularized by the inferolateral arteries. The inferolateral arteries vary greatly in the number and position of the arteries and their tributaries, and small-vessel disease in this territory can present with diverse symptoms because of this complexity. These findings indicate that central neurological involvement should not be overlooked in the case of sensory disturbance restricted to the tip of the tongue and lip. 
Symmetrical thalamic degeneration with calcifications of infancy.	We describe the clinical and radiographic features of three premature infants with symmetric thalamic calcification recognized by computed tomographic scan on days 6, 12, and 49 of life and contrast our findings with those reported in the literature. These lesions follow prepartum or intrapartum hypoxiaischemia and are clinically distinguished by prominent bulbar dysfunction, featuring weak or absent cry, poor feeding, and facial weakness. Neonatal thalamic calcification in premature infants may serve as a radiological marker of an acute, short-lived hypoxic-ischemic event. The presence of brain-stem dysfunction, particularly of lower cranial nerves in association with thalamic calcifications, constitutes a distinctive clinical-radiological entity and usually portends a poor outcome. The presence of these calcifications implies that injury was sustained to diencephalic and brain-stem structures at least 2 to 4 weeks prior to their appearance on computed tomographic scan.
Degeneration of the thalamus and inferior olives associated with spongiform encephalopathy of the cerebral cortex.	We describe a 37-year-old man with a 30-month history of progressive dementia, myoclonus and prominent ataxia with the additional clinical features of dysautonomia and delirious psychomotor excitement and with relatively preserved verbal responses. The pathological changes include 1) severe neuronal loss and gliosis without spongiform change of the thalamus and inferior olives associated with gliosis of the midbrain tegmentum, and demyelination and gliosis of the central tegmental tract, olivo-cerebellar fibers and spino-olivary tract, and 2) mild spongiform encephalopathy of the cerebral cortex. Although the latter implies that the present case may be an example of the rare thalamic form of Creutzfeld-Jakob disease, the preferential and severe involvement of the thalamus and inferior olives without spongiform change as well as the clinical features are quite reminiscent of primary thalamic degeneration [Stern 1939]. This case draws further attention to the relationship between spongiform encephalopathy and degeneration without spongiform change of the thalamus and olivary system.
Intraventricular hemorrhage in the newborn infant at term: thalamic origin]	Four observations of intraventricular hemorrhage in full term neonates without perinatal asphyxia are reported. The clinical pictures were remarkably similar in the four infants: neurological symptoms developed several days after birth with sunsetting and eye deviation and symptoms of cranial hypertension. Ultrasonography and CT scan showed a thalamic hemorrhage.
Left thalamic hypertensive haemorrhage presenting as transient global amnesia.	A case is described which presented as transient global amnesia (TGA) due to a critically placed intracerebral hypertensive haematoma in the left thalamic region, with epileptic discharges arising from the same area. It is proposed that intracerebral haematomas may occasionally present as a clinically well-defined neurological syndrome. The deficit in such cases is probably not due to the underlying direct tissue damage but secondary to indirect pressure or ischaemic insults.
Cerebral blood flow in thalamic aphasia.	A 59-year-old man is reported, who became aphasic after left thalamic infarction, shown by CT. His speech was fluent, with reduced voice volume, impaired auditory and reading comprehension, verbal paraphasias but intact repetition skills. A single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan to measure regional cerebral flow (rCBF) showed a reduction of flow in the parietotemporal areas of the left hemisphere. It is suggested that thalamic aphasia could result from structural subcortical damage with a homolateral functional cortical deficit leading to the specific aphasic disturbance.
Limb apraxia in patients with damage confined to the left basal ganglia and thalamus.	Limb apraxia was investigated with standardised tests in 14 patients whose CT scan provided evidence of a vascular lesion confined to the left basal ganglia, or the thalamus, or both, and not involving the cortex or adjacent white matter. Five patients were severely impaired in imitating movements and pantomiming object use. Four of them also performed poorly when tested with real objects. In two patients the lesion was primarily thalamic and in three the lesion was primarily in the lenticular nucleus and the posterior limb of the internal capsule. Patients without apraxia generally had smaller injuries, but there were exceptions. Apraxia is currently conceived of as due to damage of cortical areas and their cortico-cortical connections, but the present data suggest that the model should be enlarged to include the deep nuclei and the pathways running through them.
Thalamic hemorrhage: clinical-CT correlations.	We studied 50 patients with thalamic hemorrhage, 84% with hypertension. Five patients had hematomas less than 8 mm and signs that resolved within 4 days. Two patients had headache, papilledema, and hemorrhage contiguous with the lateral ventricles. Twenty-four had hemiparesis, parenchymal hemorrhage 9 to 30 mm, and no ventricular blood. Nineteen had a larger hemorrhage and intraventricular hemorrhage, impaired consciousness, hemiparesis, and pupillary abnormalities; 12 had vertical gaze impairment, and all 19 patients died.
Focal dystonia and speech impairment responding to anticholinergic therapy.	Focal dystonia of the right hand and speech impairment as a result of a circumscribed left-sided anterior thalamic lesion is reported in a 9-year-old girl with borderline normal psychomotor development. Both focal dystonia and speech impairment improved during anticholinergic treatment and worsened after drug withdrawal.
Amnesia syndrome following left anterior thalamic infarction; with intrahemispheric and crossed cerebro-cerebellar diaschisis on brain SPECT.	We report a 61-year-old right-handed man developing disturbance of memory after a discrete thalamic infarction. Neuropsychological assessment revealed deficits in memory with retrograde and anterograde components, especially for verbal material. Brain MRI showed a left anterior thalamic infarction with normal angiographic findings. Despite the small lesion in the thalamus, he showed prolonged memory disturbance and a Brain SPECT image revealed decreased uptake in the ipsilateral fronto-temporo-parietal cortex and contralateral cerebellum. This diaschisis, a phenomenon caused by disconnection of the neural pathway helped us to evaluate the functional state of the patient and this imaging technique was valuable for obtaining to get more information for the evaluation of the neurological state and neuronal connections. In conclusion our findings correspond well with the understanding of amnesia as a disconnection syndrome because of the evidence of diaschisis on the Brain SPECT image.
Leg weakness due to stroke. Site of lesions, weakness patterns and causes.	Among 1575 patients with an acute stroke, 63 (4%) were found to have a leg-predominant weakness. The cerebral lesions were situated in (i) the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) territory in 12 cases, including one patient with a thrombosis of the sagittal sinus; (ii) the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory in nine cases; (iii) both territories (not watershed) in two cases; (iv) the internal capsule in 18 cases, of which six cases had lesions in the ponto-peduncular or pontine; (v) other brainstem regions in 10 cases; (iv) the thalamus in two cases. Four were not precisely classified. In short, 41 were hemispheric and 18 were in the brainstem or thalamus. Lesions restricted to the rear portion of the medial part of the precentral gyrus caused a contralateral predominantly distal leg weakness. The weakness was severe with little improvement. Lesions involving the medial part of the premotor cortex, the supplementary motor area (SMA) and the rear portion of the medial part of the precentral gyrus caused a contralateral, severe leg-predominant hemiplegia, distally predominant and a less severe proximal weakness of the arm. Recovery was much better for the arm than for the leg. Lesions affecting the medial part of the premotor cortex, the SMA and sparing the precentral gyrus caused a contralateral hemiparesis predominating on the leg but predominating proximally on both leg and arm. Recovery was good for leg and arm. There were 22 infarcts due to ACA or MCA occlusion, one due to superior sagittal sinus occlusion, 18 lacunes and five haemorrhages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pseudo-hypersomnia and pre-sleep behaviour with bilateral paramedian thalamic lesions.	The sleep/wake status of three patients with bilateral lesions involving the paramedian thalamic regions was investigated. Long-term monitoring with infrared video camera and polygraphy were performed. In spite of presenting a behavioural aspect of sleep with sleep posture, eyes closed and lack of activity for 15-17 h per day, these subjects did not develop the normal non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep states during the daytime. The EEG indicated presence of a mixture of low amplitude, irregular, diffuse theta and alpha range frequencies during hours associated with this 'sleep-like' behaviour. Multiple sleep latency tests performed some time after the acute insult gave varying results, but while stage 1 NREM sleep might have been noted for three to four epochs, other states of sleep never appeared. Patients were apathetic and 'drowsy' but could develop sleep only during the normal circadian period for sleep, i.e. during the night. Even several years later, in one of the subjects in whom follow-up recordings were obtained, apathetic behaviour and sleep 'posturing' were present during much of the day, even though the subject, if requested, could perform tasks adequately all day long. Subjects with such lesions do not present a 'hypersomnia' but a 'de-arousal' or 'subwakefulness' with inability to develop sleep outside the normal circadian boundaries for its appearance. However, these subjects, at least initially, also lacked full wakefulness. They have a behavioural impairment with a compulsive sleep posture and are left in the transition between wakefulness and sleep.
Acute esotropia from small thalamic hemorrhage.	A 74 year-old patient developed transient acute esotropia, upward gaze palsy and imbalance of standing and gait. Computed Tomography (CT) demonstrated a small left thalamic hemorrhage in the absence of midbrain lesions. The role of thalamic lesion in the genesis of monocular supranuclear palsy is discussed.
Crossed cerebellar diaschisis due to intracranial hematoma in basal ganglia or thalamus.	The purpose of our study was to evaluate the remote effects on the cerebellum and cerebral cortex from subcortical hematoma without cortical structural abnormality.
