Effects of exogenous metallothionein against thallium-induced oxidative stress in rat liver.	Metallothionein (MT) is a low-molecular weight sulfur-rich protein that plays role in metal homeostasis/detoxification and radical scavenging. The following study investigated the ability of exogenous MT to protect against oxidative damage induced by thallium (TI) in rat liver. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups; a control and three experimental groups. The control group received physiological saline. Group 1 animals were injected with thallium acetate intraperitoneally (i.p.) at a single dose of LD(50) (32 mg/kg). In group 2 and group 3, metallothionein I was administrated once at two different doses (1 or 2.5mg/kg i.p., respectively) 1h before TI intoxication. Levels of endogenous antioxidants, oxidative stress markers were measured and histopathological examinations were performed 4 days after TI administration. TI accumulation in liver decreased related to the dose of MT. Mostly all of the alterations in the levels antioxidants restored to normal levels in MT administrated animals. H(2)O(2) levels and lipid peroxidation decreased, integrity of hepatocytes and membranous structures inside the cells were preserved. The toxic effects of TI were modulated in MT administrated animals particularly at the dose of 2.5mg/kg. These findings suggest an active role of exogenous MT against TI-induced oxidative stress in rat liver.
Combined D-penicillamine and prussian blue as antidotal treatment against thallotoxicosis in rats: evaluation of cerebellar lesions.	Rats were treated with a single dose of thallium acetate (32 mg/kg i.p.) and the antidotal effect of D-penicillamine and prussian blue given alone or in combination was assessed by means of evaluation of the thallium-induced cerebellar histological lesions. After thallium poisoning (24 h), antidotes were administered for 4 days as follows: D-penicillamine (DP) 25 mg/kg, i.p. twice daily; prussian blue (PB), 50 mg/kg p.o., twice daily. Mortality among the treatment groups was as follows: control, 87.5%; DP, 100%; PB, 56.25%; DP+PB, 25%. Three days after these treatments, rats treated with the combination DP+PB presented a significantly lower number of altered Purkinje cells in cerebellum as compared with those of the thallium alone treated animals, indicating adequate protection by this antidote treatment against thallium neurotoxicity. Prussian blue protected against thallium-induced neurotoxicity to a lesser extent as compared with the effects obtained by the DP+PB protection. DP did not protect against thallium-induced alterations of Purkinje cells. These results confirm the efficacy of the combined antidotal treatment of DP and PB against thallium toxicity in rats, and support the possible application in human cases of thallotoxicosis.
