Differential cytokine modulation and T cell activation by two distinct classes of thalidomide analogues that are potent inhibitors of TNF-alpha.	TNF-alpha mediates both protective and detrimental manifestations of the host immune response. Our previous work has shown thalidomide to be a relatively selective inhibitor of TNF-alpha production in vivo and in vitro. Additionally, we have recently reported that thalidomide exerts a costimulatory effect on T cell responses. To develop thalidomide analogues with increased anti-TNF-alpha activity and reduced or absent toxicities, novel TNF-alpha inhibitors were designed and synthesized. When a selected group of these compounds was examined for their immunomodulatory activities, different patterns of cytokine modulation were revealed. The tested compounds segregated into two distinct classes: one class of compounds, shown to be potent phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors, inhibited TNF-alpha production, increased IL-10 production by LPS-induced PBMC, and had little effect on T cell activation; the other class of compounds, similar to thalidomide, were not phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors and markedly stimulated T cell proliferation and IL-2 and IFN-gamma production. These compounds inhibited TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 and greatly increased IL-10 production by LPS-induced PBMC. Similar to thalidomide, the effect of these agents on IL-12 production was dichotomous; IL-12 was inhibited when PBMC were stimulated with LPS but increased when cells were stimulated by cross-linking the TCR. The latter effect was associated with increased T cell CD40 ligand expression. The distinct immunomodulatory activities of these classes of thalidomide analogues may potentially allow them to be used in the clinic for the treatment of different immunopathological disorders.
Thalidomide and its analogues inhibit lipopolysaccharide-mediated Iinduction of cyclooxygenase-2.	We investigated the effect of thalidomide, a compound with immunomodulatory and antiangiogenic properties, on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and prostaglandin (PG) biosynthesis in murine macrophages. Thalidomide caused a dose-dependent inhibition of LPS-mediated induction of PGE(2) synthesis in RAW 264.7 cells. The induction of Cox-2 protein and mRNA by LPS was also suppressed by thalidomide. Based on the results of nuclear run-off assays and transient transfections, treatment with LPS stimulated Cox-2 transcription, an effect that was unaffected by thalidomide. Thalidomide decreased the stability of Cox-2 mRNA. A series of structural analogues of thalidomide also inhibited LPS-mediated induction of Cox-2 and PGE(2) synthesis. Taken together, these data provide new insights into the antineoplastic and anti-inflammatory properties of thalidomide.
Antiangiogenic activity of N-substituted and tetrafluorinated thalidomide analogues.	Inhibition of angiogenesis is currently perceived as one of the promising strategies in the treatment of cancer. The antiangiogenic property of thalidomide has inspired a second wave of research on this teratogenic drug. Previous studies from our group and others demonstrated that metabolites of thalidomide are responsible for the drug's pharmacological actions. On the basis of the structures of these metabolites, we synthesized 118 thalidomide analogues. Preliminary screening selected 7 of these 118 analogues for more extensive testing in the current study. In the rat aortic ring assay, all 4 analogues in the N-substituted class and 2 of the 3 analogues in the tetrafluorinated class significantly inhibited microvessel outgrowth at 12.5-200 microM. Thalidomide failed to block angiogenesis at similar concentrations. Subsequently, the effects of these analogues on human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation and tube formation were determined. Those analogues showing antiangiogenicity in the rat aortic ring assay also demonstrated antiproliferative action in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Cell proliferation was not affected by thalidomide. Interestingly, all 7 analogues as well as thalidomide suppressed tube formation. Two tetrafluorinated analogues consistently showed the highest potency and efficacy in all three assays. The in vivo toxicity of representative analogues from each class was also evaluated. Taken together, our results support the further development and evaluation of novel thalidomide analogues as antiangiogenic agents.
Thalidomide as a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor and its structural development.	Thalidomide has been found to exhibit weak nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-inhibitory activity. Structural development studies of thalidomide showed that some N-2,6-dimethylphenylhomophthalimide analogs possess NOS-inhibiting activity.
Chiral discrimination between thalidomide enantiomers using a solid surface with two-dimensional chirality.	Chiral discrimination between thalidomide enantiomers was achieved using the self-assembled monolayer (SAM) of an atropisomeric compound, 1,1'-binaphthalene-2,2'-dithiol (BNSH), which takes a two-dimensional chiral arrangement on gold(111) surface. Interestingly, an "all-or-none" type enantioselectivity appears; one enantiomeric form of BNSH SAM allows the adsorption of only one enantiomer of thalidomide. In addition, the response of a racemic SAM of BNSH was revealed to be one-half of that caused by pure enantiomeric SAM.
CC-5013 (Celgene).	Celgene, in collaboration with the National Cancer Institute, is developing CC-5013, the lead compound in a series of thalidomide derivatives that inhibit TNFalpha overproduction, for the potential treatment of hematological and solid tumor cancers and inflammatory diseases.
Combination of the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin and CC-5013 has synergistic activity in multiple myeloma.	Previous studies have demonstrated the in vitro and in vivo activity of CC-5013 (Revlimid), an immunomodulatory analog (IMiD) of thalidomide, in multiple myeloma (MM). In the present study, we have examined the anti-MM activity of rapamycin (Rapamune), a specific mTOR inhibitor, combined with CC-5013. Based on the Chou-Talalay method, combination indices of less than 1 were obtained for all dose ranges of CC-5013 when combined with rapamycin, suggesting strong synergism. Importantly, this combination was able to overcome drug resistance when tested against MM cell lines resistant to conventional chemotherapy. Moreover, the combination, but not rapamycin alone, was able to overcome the growth advantage conferred on MM cells by interleukin-6 (IL-6), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), or adherence to bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Combining rapamycin and CC-5013 induced apoptosis of MM cells. Differential signaling cascades, including the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase/Akt kinase (PI3K/Akt) pathways, were targeted by these drugs individually and in combination, suggesting the molecular mechanism by which they interfere with MM growth and survival. These studies, therefore, provide the framework for clinical evaluation of mTOR inhibitors combined with IMiDs to improve patient outcome in MM.
Immunomodulatory drugs inhibit expression of cyclooxygenase-2 from TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and LPS-stimulated human PBMC in a partially IL-10-dependent manner.	Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) are potent inhibitors of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta and elevators of IL-10 production in LPS-stimulated human PBMC. They are currently in clinical trials for various diseases, including multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndrome, and melanoma. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of thalidomide, CC-5013 and CC-4047 on the expression of COX-2 by stimulated PBMC. Our results show that thalidomide and IMiDs inhibited the expression of COX-2 but not the COX-1 protein in LPS-TNF-alpha and IL-1beta stimulated PBMC and shortened the half-life of COX-2 mRNA in a dose-dependent manner. They also inhibited the synthesis of prostaglandin E2 from LPS-stimulated PBMC. While anti-TNF-alpha or IL-1beta neutralizing antibodies had no effect on COX-2 expression, anti-IL-10 neutralizing antibody elevated the expression of COX-2 mRNA, and protein from treated PBMC. These data suggest that the anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor effects of IMiDs may be due in part to elevation of IL-10 production and its subsequent inhibition of COX-2 expression.
Thalidomide and lenalidomide in the treatment of multiple myeloma.	Although multiple myeloma (MM) is incurable with currently available treatments, the introduction of thalidomide and the development of safer and more active thalidomide analogues represent a major advance in the therapy of this disease. Thalidomide, initially introduced for treatment of MM because of its anti-angiogenic properties, has shown remarkable activity alone and in combination with other drugs in patients across all stages of the disease. Given the potential for teratogenicity with thalidomide and the non-haematologic toxicities of the drug, several analogues referred to as "immunomodulatory drugs" (IMiDs) were developed with the intent of enhancing the immunomodulatory effect while minimizing the teratogenic risk. Lenalidomide (CC-5013) and Actimid (CC-4047) are the first such analogues to undergo clinical testing. Lenalidomide has shown impressive activity in relapsed refractory myeloma as well as newly diagnosed disease. The precise mechanism of anti-MM activity of thalidomide and the IMiDs is not clear, but studies suggest that several other mechanisms besides anti-angiogenic effects may play a role. In this paper we review the development, pharmacology, mechanism of action, pre-clinical and clinical efficacy, and the current status of thalidomide and the IMiDs in the treatment of MM.
The oxidative stress response regulates DKK1 expression through the JNK signaling cascade in multiple myeloma plasma cells.	Multiple myeloma (MM) plasma cells, but not those from healthy donors and patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or other plasma cell dyscrasias involving the bone marrow, express the Wnt-signaling antagonist DKK1. We previously reported that secretion of DKK1 by MM cells likely contributes to osteolytic lesions in this disease by inhibiting Wnt signaling, which is essential for osteoblast differentiation and survival. The mechanisms responsible for activation and regulation of DKK1 expression in MM are not known. Herein, we could trace DKK1 expression changes in MM cells to perturbations in the JNK signaling cascade, which is differentially modulated through oxidative stress and interactions between MM cells with osteoclasts in vitro. Despite its role as a tumor suppressor and mediator of apoptosis in other cell types including osteoblasts, our data suggest that DKK1, a stress-responsive gene in MM, does not mediate apoptotic signaling, is not activated by TP53, and its forced overexpression could not inhibit cell growth or sensitize MM cells to apoptosis following treatment with thalidomide or lenalidomide. We conclude that specific strategies to modulate persistent activation of the JNK pathway may be beneficial in preventing disease progression and treating myeloma-associated bone disease by inhibiting DKK1 expression.
Emerging drugs in multiple myeloma.	The treatment of multiple myeloma has seen significant changes from the time of the initial use of cytotoxic agents such as melphalan, to the introduction of high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation, and most recently the era of novel targeted agents. These new drugs have rapidly become the mainstay of therapy of this disease and transformed the treatment paradigm, leading to improvements in survival and quality of life. Existing therapeutic options include agents such as thalidomide, bortezomib and lenalidomide, either used alone or in combination with standard agents, including glucocorticoids, and in conjunction with high-dose chemotherapy supported with stem cell transplantation. Several other targeted agents have demonstrated exciting preclinical activity, and are presently being tested in early Phase I and II clinical trials. This review summarizes the role of novel therapeutic agents in multiple myeloma, and the promising effect of multiple new agents in development.
Chiral recognition ability and solvent versatility of bonded amylose tris(3,5-dimethylphenylcarbamate) chiral stationary phase: enantioselective liquid chromatographic resolution of racemic N-alkylated barbiturates and thalidomide analogs.	The chiral recognition ability and solvent versatility of a new chiral stationary phase containing amylose 3,5-dimethylphenylcarabamate immobilized onto silica gel (CHIRALPAK IA) is investigated. Thus, the direct enantioselective separation of a set of racemic N-alkylated barbiturates and 3-alkylated analogs of thalidomide was conducted using different nonstandard solvents as eluent and diluent, respectively in high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The separation, resolution, and elution order of the investigated compounds were compared on both immobilized and coated amylose tris(3,5-dimethylphenylcarbamate) chiral stationary phases (Chiralpak IA and Chiralpak AD, respectively) using a mixture of n-hexane/2-propanol (90:10 v/v) as mobile phase with different flow-rates and fixed UV detection at 254 nm. The effect of the immobilization of the amylose tris(3,5-dimethylphenylcarbamate) chiral stationary phase on silica (Chiralpak IA) on the chiral recognition ability was noted as the bonded phase (Chiralpak IA) was superior in chiral recognition and possesses a higher resolving power in most of the reported cases than the coated one (Chiralpak AD). A few racemates were not or poorly resolved on the immobilized Chiralpak IA or the coated Chiralpak AD when using standard solvents were most efficiently resolved on the immobilized Chiralpak IA upon using nonstandard solvents. Furthermore, the immobilized phase withstands the nonstandard (prohibited) HPLC solvents such as dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, tetrahydrofuran, methyl-tert-butyl ether, and others when used as eluents or as a dissolving agent for the analyte itself. The direct analysis of a real sample extracted from plasma using DCM on Chiralpak IA is also shown.
Immunomodulatory drugs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a new treatment paradigm.	Immunomodulating drugs belong to a new class of therapeutic agents that have immunomodulatory, antiangiogenic and antiproliferative effects. Although the basis of anti-tumour activity of immunomodulating agents are not clear, results of clinical trials have demonstrated impressive activity in certain hemalogical disorders such as multiple myeloma (MM) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The peculiar properties of immunomodulating agents prompted investigators to test their role in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The efficacy of single-agent thalidomide in refractory CLL is disappointing, although its combination with fludarabine seems promising. Lenalidomide, a thalidomide analogue, is showing anti-tumour activity with durable response in refractory CLL. These preliminary results represent the basis for investigating the potential of lenalidomide in association with established chemotherapy regimens or as maintenance therapy.
Lenalidomide inhibits osteoclastogenesis, survival factors and bone-remodeling markers in multiple myeloma.	Osteolytic bone disease in multiple myeloma (MM) is caused by enhanced osteoclast (OCL) activation and inhibition of osteoblast function. Lenalidomide and bortezomib have shown promising response rates in relapsed and newly diagnosed MM, and bortezomib has recently been reported to inhibit OCLs. We here investigated the effect of lenalidomide on OCL formation and osteoclastogenesis in comparison with bortezomib. Both drugs decreased alpha V beta 3-integrin, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cells and bone resorption on dentin disks. In addition, both agents decreased receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL) secretion of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) derived from MM patients. We identified PU.1 and pERK as major targets of lenalidomide, and nuclear factor of activated T cells of bortezomib, resulting in inhibition of osteoclastogenesis. Furthermore, downregulation of cathepsin K, essential for resorption of the bone collagen matrix, was observed. We demonstrated a significant decrease of growth and survival factors including macrophage inflammatory protein-alpha, B-cell activating factor and a proliferation-inducing ligand. Importantly, in serum from MM patients treated with lenalidomide, the essential bone-remodeling factor RANKL, as well as the RANKL/OPG ratio, were significantly reduced, whereas osteoprotegerin (OPG) was increased. We conclude that both agents specifically target key factors in osteoclastogenesis, and could directly affect the MM-OCL-BMSCs activation loop in osteolytic bone disease.
The costs of drugs used to treat myelodysplastic syndromes following National Comprehensive Cancer Network Guidelines.	Guidelines for management of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) have been generated by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Myelodysplastic Syndromes Panel. Because MDS is a heterogeneous spectrum of disorders, these patients have been categorized into prognostic subgroups, predominantly using the International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS). Several drugs have been used to treat these patients, and their selection and sequential recommended use by the panel depend on disease characteristics and responses to treatment. Recombinant erythropoietin alfa and darbepoetin alfa have been the mainstay of therapy for treating anemia associated with MDS. The FDA has recently approved several other drugs for treating MDS, including azacytidine and decitabine for all stages of disease, lenalidomide for low-risk anemic patients with del(5q) chromosomal abnormality, and deferasirox for treating iron overload. For iron chelation, deferoxamine is also used occasionally. Treatment with immunosuppressive therapy (antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporin) has been therapeutically beneficial for a subset of younger patients with MDS. Because the financial cost of these therapies are substantial and have received only limited attention, this article evaluates the costs of specific drugs and their sequential use in the lower-risk IPSS (low and intermediate-1) subgroups based on the NCCN guidelines. Results estimate an average annual cost for potentially anemia-altering drugs of $63,577 per patient, ranging from $26,000 to $95,000, depending on the specific therapies. In patients for whom the therapies fail, annual costs for iron chelation plus red blood cell transfusions are estimated to average $41,412. The economic impact of drug therapy should be weighed against the patient's potential for improvement in clinical outcomes, quality of life, and transfusion requirements.
Patients with del(5q) MDS who fail to achieve sustained erythroid or cytogenetic remission after treatment with lenalidomide have an increased risk for clonal evolution and AML progression.	Lenalidomide consistently induces transfusion independence and complete cytogenetic response in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes with 5q deletion. Only limited information on long-term outcome is currently available. We performed a long-term follow-up analysis of 42 patients with low or intermediate risk myelodysplastic syndromes and 5q deletion treated with lenalidomide. At a median follow-up of 40 months, 58% of the patients achieved an erythroid response and 48% a cytogenetic response. Thirty-six percent of patients progressed into acute myeloid leukaemia. Most of them (87%) acquired chromosome aberrations in addition to the 5q deletion, i.e. underwent clonal evolution during leukaemogenesis. There were no clinical, cytological or cytogenetic markers at study entry that allowed prediction of increased risk of leukaemic transformation. However, erythroid and cytogenetic responders had a significantly decreased risk of progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (p = 0.001 and p = 0.009, respectively) compared to non-responders. Three and 5 years after study entry, the cumulative incidence of acute myeloid leukaemia for patients with a cytogenetic response was 10% and 21%, respectively, and for patients without cytogenetic response, it was 46% and 60%. Patients with del(5q) myelodysplastic syndromes without erythroid or cytogenetic remission after treatment with lenalidomide have a high risk for clonal evolution and acute myeloid leukaemia progression. In refractory, or relapsing, patients, genetic instability and clonal evolution seem to be the driving forces of leukaemic transformation. Regular follow-up investigations of del(5q) myelodysplastic syndrome patients treated with lenalidomide may help to identify patients requiring alternative treatment strategies.
Lenalidomide in the treatment of transfusion dependent myelodysplastic syndromes]	Lenalidomide is the first drug to induce transfusion independence and cytogenetic remission in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with deletion 5q and low or intermediate risk score. Transfusion independence can be obtained within five weeks. Three out of four patients also obtain a cytogenetic response to treatment. However, concern has arisen about the possibility of an increased risk of transformation to acute myeloid leukaemia. A multicenter, randomised, placebo-controlled study with long-term follow-up is needed.
Novel approaches for myelodysplastic syndromes: beyond hypomethylating agents.	Several novel therapeutic approaches exist for treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, with goals to improve quality of life and prolong survival. This review highlights new therapies from the last 18 months.
Lenalidomide (Revlimid, CC-5013) in myelodysplastic syndromes: Is it any good?	The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) can be divided into "early" and "advanced" disease by evaluation of prognostic variables such as the number of cytopenias, karyotype, and percentage of myeloblasts. Patients with an isolated interstitial deletion of chromosome 5q31 represent a distinct subset who may derive particular benefit from immunomodulatory drugs. Goals of therapy for early MDS focus on hematologic improvement and maximizing quality of life. Thalidomide, the prototype of the immunomodulatory drugs, yields major erythroid responses in some patients with early MDS, but doselimiting neurologic toxicities limit its potential clinical benefit. Lenalidomide, a more potent and non-neurotoxic derivative, has shown promising results in early MDS, yielding hematologic improvement in almost half of patients and transfusion independence with cytogenetic remissions in approximately two thirds of patients harboring the chromosome 5q31 deletion.
Lenalidomide enhances antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity of solid tumor cells in vitro: influence of host immune and tumor markers.	We evaluated the effect of combining lenalidomide with therapeutic antibodies on antibody-dependant cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) of solid tumor cells, and the requirement for expression of natural killer (NK) cell-activating receptors and their solid tumor surface ligands. Twenty-three human tumor cell lines (colon, breast, lung, head and neck, ovary, and bone sarcoma) were analyzed. NK effector cells were isolated from healthy donors, pre-treated with and without lenalidomide, and incubated with antibody-coated tumor cells to determine ADCC. In blocking experiments, NK cells were pre-incubated with anti-DNAM-1 or anti-NKG2D antibodies, and target colorectal cells were pre-incubated with anti-CD155 (PVR), anti-MIC-A/B, or anti-ULBP 3 antibodies. Differences between groups were assessed using unpaired and paired Student's t test and one-way ANOVA. Lenalidomide enhanced NK cell-mediated ADCC of trastuzumab- and cetuximab-coated tumor cells. Activity against colorectal cancer cells was dependent on target antigen expression, but independent of KRAS status and FcγRIIIa genotype. The extent of ADCC and its enhancement by lenalidomide correlated with NK cell expression of NKG2D and DNAM-1, and tumor cell expression of PVR and MIC-A. Blocking of NKG2D and, to a lesser extent, DNAM-1 inhibited ADCC. Anti-MIC-A/B monoclonal antibody blocked natural cytotoxicity, but not ADCC. Lenalidomide enhances the ability of IgG1-isotype antibodies to mediate ADCC of solid tumor cells, the extent of which is largely dependent on NKG2D-NKG2D ligand interactions, but appears to be independent of MIC-A/B. This provides a rationale for exploratory clinical studies and an assessment of potential biomarkers predictive of clinical benefit.
The immunostimulatory effect of lenalidomide on NK-cell function is profoundly inhibited by concurrent dexamethasone therapy.	Lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone is an effective treatment for refractory/relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). Lenalidomide stimulates natural killer (NK) cells and enhances antitumor responses. We assessed NK cell number and function in 25 patients with MM participating in a clinical trial of lenalidomide and dexamethasone. NK cell numbers increased from a mean of 2.20 ± 0.05 × 10(5)/mL (baseline) to a mean of 3.90 ± 0.03 × 10(5)/mL (cycle 6; P = .05); however, in vitro NK-cell-mediated cytotoxicity decreased from 48.9% ± 6.8% to 27.6% ± 5.1% (P = .0028) and could not be rescued by lenalidomide retreatment. Lenalidomide increased normal donor NK-cell cytotoxicity in vitro from 38.5% to 53.3%, but this was completely abrogated by dexamethasone. Dexamethasone suppression of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was partially reversed by a 3-day washout, but these cells remained refractory to lenalidomide-induced enhanced function. Lymphocyte subset depletion experiments revealed that lenalidomide's enhancement of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was mediated by CD4(+) T-cell production of interleukin 2 and that dexamethasone acted by suppressing interleukin-2 production. Similarly, the reduced ability of NK cells from patients with MM to respond to lenalidomide was also due to impaired CD4 T-cell function. Our findings indicate that lenalidomide immunostimulatory effects on patient NK cells are severely blunted by concurrent dexamethasone administration.
Cytogenetic follow-up by karyotyping and fluorescence in situ hybridization: implications for monitoring patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and deletion 5q treated with lenalidomide.	In patients with low and intermediate risk myelodysplastic syndrome and deletion 5q (del(5q)) treated with lenalidomide, monitoring of cytogenetic response is mandatory, since patients without cytogenetic response have a significantly increased risk of progression. Therefore, we have reviewed cytogenetic data of 302 patients. Patients were analyzed by karyotyping and fluorescence in situ hybridization. In 85 patients, del(5q) was only detected by karyotyping. In 8 patients undergoing karyotypic evolution, the del(5q) and additional chromosomal aberrations were only detected by karyotyping. In 3 patients, del(5q) was only detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization, but not by karyotyping due to a low number of metaphases. Karyotyping was significantly more sensitive than fluorescence in situ hybridization in detecting the del(5q) clone. In conclusion, to optimize therapy control of myelodysplastic syndrome patients with del(5q) treated with lenalidomide and to identify cytogenetic non-response or progression as early as possible, fluorescence in situ hybridization alone is inadequate for evaluation. Karyotyping must be performed to optimally evaluate response.
Preferential enhancement of older human T cell cytokine generation, chemotaxis, proliferation and survival by lenalidomide.	Lenalidomide, an analog of thalidomide, modified responses of stimulated T cells from healthy young (ages 21-40 years) and old (≥ age 65 years) subjects. At 0.03 μM to 1 μM, lenalidomide enhanced generation of IL-2 and IFN-γ by T cell receptor-stimulated T cells of young subjects up to respective maximum increases of 17-fold and three-fold, but at 0.3 μM and 1 μM suppressed IL-17 generation. The same concentrations of lenalidomide enhanced IL-2 and IFN-γ generation by stimulated T cells of old subjects more, with greater respective maximal increases of up to 120-fold and six-fold, without suppressing IL-17 generation. Lenalidomide enhanced proliferation and suppressed apoptosis of stimulated T cells from old subjects, by IL-2-dependent mechanisms, and restored diminished T cell chemotactic responses to CCL21 and sphingosine 1-phosphate. The reversal of T cell abnormalities of immunosenescence by low concentrations of lenalidomide suggest a potential for improvement of immunity in the elderly.
Asymmetric synthesis of both mirror images of 3'-fluorothalidomide by enantiodivergent fluorination using a single, cinchona alkaloid.	Enantiomerically pure 3'-fluorothalidomide (2) was successfully synthesized by enantiodivergent electrophilic fluorination using a combination of cinchona alkaloids and N-fluorobenzenesulfonimide (NFSI) as the key reaction. Importantly, a single chiral molecule, dihydroquinine (DHQ), allowed access to the mirror image form of 3'-fluorothalidimide by the choice of additives. While the use of TMEDA gave fluorinated (S)-4, the precursor of 2, with 78% ee, Cu(acac)(2)/bipy, afforded the antipode, (R)-4, in 77% ee.
Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of new thalidomide analogues as TNF-α and IL-6 production inhibitors.	Several thalidomide analogues were synthesized and compared to thalidomide and its more active analogue, lenalidomide, for their ability to inhibit the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6 by LPS-activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Among these compounds, two analogues containing sulfonyl group displayed interesting downregulation of TNF-α and IL-6 production.
Increased in vivo efficacy of lenalidomide by addition of piroctone olamine.	It was recently confirmed that the antifungal agent ciclopirox olamine inhibits Wnt/beta catenin signaling in myeloma. Piroctone olamine (PO) has very similar chemical features to ciclopirox olamine.
Lenalidomide targets clonogenic side population in multiple myeloma: pathophysiologic and clinical implications.	Recurrence of multiple myeloma (MM) after therapy suggests the presence of tumor-initiating subpopulations. In our study, we performed flow cytometry-based Hoechst 33342 staining to evaluate the existence of a MM population with stem-like features known as side population (SP) cells. SP cells exhibit substantial heterogeneity in MM cell lines and primary MM cells; express CD138 antigen in MM cell lines; display higher mRNA expression and functional activity of ABCG2 transporter; and have a higher proliferation index compared with non-SP cells. We observed evidence for clonogenic potential of SP cells, as well as the ability of SP cells to regenerate original population. Moreover, SP cells revealed higher tumorigenicity compared with non-SP cells. Importantly, lenalidomide decreased the percentage and clonogenicity of SP cells, and also induced phosphorylation changes in Akt, GSK-3α/β, MEK1, c-Jun, p53, and p70S6K in SP cells. Adherence to bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) increased the percentage, viability, and proliferation potential of SP cells. Lenalidomide and thalidomide abrogated this stimulatory effect of BMSCs and significantly decreased the percentage of SP cells. Our studies demonstrate a novel mechanism of action for lenalidomide, namely targeting SP fraction, providing the framework for new therapeutic strategies targeting subpopulations of MM cells including presumptive stem cells.
The role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-δ in the immunomodulatory effects of lenalidomide in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), lenalidomide can promote humoral immune responses but also induces a distinct disease-specific toxicity of tumor flare and cytokine release. These CLL-specific events result from increased expression of costimulatory molecules on B cells. Here we demonstrate that lenalidomide activation of CLL cells depends on the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p110δ (PI3K-δ) pathway. Inhibition of PI3K-δ signaling by the PI3K-δ-inhibiting drug, CAL-101, or by siRNA knockdown of p110δ, abrogates CLL cell activation, costimulatory molecule expression, and vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor gene expression that is induced by lenalidomide. In addition, CAL-101 attenuates lenalidomide-mediated increases in immunoglobulin M production by normal B cells. Collectively, these data demonstrate the importance of PI3K-δ signaling for lenalidomide immune modulation. These findings may guide development of strategies for the treatment of CLL that combine lenalidomide with CAL-101, with other inhibitors of the PI3K-δ pathway, or with other agents that target downstream kinases of this signaling pathway.
Concise asymmetric synthesis of configurationally stable 4-trifluoromethyl thalidomide.	Thalidomide is one of the promising multidimensional drugs that possess high activity against serious diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, leprosy, AIDS and various cancers. However, its medicinal applications are plagued by its configurational instability, as it easily undergoes racemization under the physiological conditions (t(1/2) = 8 h at pH 7.1, 37°C in water). Consequently, the design and synthesis of configurationally stable analogs of thalidomide continue to be an important area of research in bioorganic and medicinal chemistry.
Multiple myeloma treatment strategies with novel agents in 2011: a European perspective.	The arrival of the novel agents thalidomide, bortezomib, and lenalidomide has significantly changed our approach to the management of multiple myeloma and, importantly, patient outcomes have improved. These agents have been investigated intensively in different treatment settings, providing us with data to make evidence-based decisions regarding the optimal management of patients. This review is an update to a previous summary of European treatment practices that examines new data that have been published or presented at congresses up to the end of 2010 and assesses their impact on treatment practices.
History of multiple myeloma.	Multiple Myeloma has been recognized since Ancient Times. The first well-documented case was reported in 1844 by Samuel Solly. The most commonly recognized case is that of Thomas Alexander McBean, a highly respectable tradesman from London in 1850. Mr. McBean excreted a large amount of protein that was described by Henry Bence Jones in the middle of the 19th century. Jones was a well-known physician and made many contributions to medicine. One of the best known cases of multiple myeloma was that of Dr. Loos that was reported by Otto Kahler. The recognition of plasma cells and subsequently their product, a monoclonal protein has been described in detail. The authors have reviewed the treatment of multiple myeloma including the novel agents, thalidomide, bortezomib and lenalidomide.
Therapy of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.	Despite considerable improvements in first line treatment still the majority of patients experience relapse of multiple myeloma. Treatment decisions for relapse or refractory multiple myeloma should be based on a clinical decision path taking response and adverse events to previous therapy, myeloma specific complications and organ dysfunctions, overall clinical condition, age, cytogenetic information and prognostic factors into account. Bortezomib, thalidomide and lenalidomide have improved the therapeutic armentarium for patients with refractory or relapsed disease and are often used in combination with dexamethasone or chemotherapeutic agents. Combination therapies of novel agents in drug combination regimen are currently under investigation as well. For patients with a disease free survival of 12 month or longer after initial single or tandem high dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) repeat of high dose therapy with melphalan and ASCT should be considered in case of relapse. Radiotherapy and osteoplastic procedures can be used as adjunct to systemic therapy to treat local complications in particular vertebral pain caused by osteolytic bone disease. Cytogenetic tests, molecular techniques as gene expression profiling and other diagnostic will lead to a more individualized therapy. The integration of novel compounds into established regimen will be a major challenge for future clinical studies.
Allogeneic transplantation in multiple myeloma.	Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma has been performed since the 1980th, but is still a controversial treatment modality. The aim is to cure the disease and the rational is to eradicate myeloma cells by the dual effect of high dose myeloablative treatment, and the immune reaction against the myeloma cells by the graft (graft versus myeloma =GVM). At the same time the patient is saved from myeloablation by the normal allogeneic donor stem cells. Although outcome has improved with time the transplant related mortality using myeloablation is still high. Therefore reduced intensity non-myelablative conditioning (RIC) has increasingly substituted myeloablation and results have improved. Out of five published or ongoing prospective clinical trials using tandem autologous (ASCT) - RIC-allogeneic transplantation (RIC-allo) compared to tandem or single ASCT the tandem ASCT-RIC-Allo approach was superior. Attempts to improve outcome by adding new drugs ( thalidomide, bortezomib or lenalidomide ) or alternative cell therapies like donor T-cell infusions or NK cell treatment may improve results.
Synthesis and screening of cyclooxygenase inhibitory activity of some 1,3-dioxoisoindoline derivatives.	In this study, 15 compounds bearing N,N-phthaloylacetamide structure designed by the molecular simplification approach based on thalidomide structure were synthesized and evaluated for inhibitory potencies against cyclooxgenase (COX) isoenzymes, namely COX-1 and COX-2. The results suggested that the N,N-phthaloylacetamide structure, as a primary amide, has inhibitory activity against cyclooxygenase isoenzymes with a higher COX-1 selectivity. The conversion of the primary amide to secondary or tertiary derivatives lowered the potency but favored the COX-2 selectivity thus yielding the compounds with stronger COX-2 inhibiting activity.
Pomalidomide augments fetal hemoglobin production without the myelosuppressive effects of hydroxyurea in transgenic sickle cell mice.	Pharmacologic induction of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) expression is an effective treatment strategy for sickle cell disease (SCD) and β-thalassemia. Pomalidomide is a potent structural analog of thalidomide and member of a new class of immunomodulatory drugs. Recent reports demonstrated that pomalidomide reduced or eliminated transfusion requirements in certain hematologic malignancies and induced HbF ex vivo in CD34(+) progenitor cells from healthy and SCD donors. We investigated the effects of pomalidomide on erythropoiesis and hemoglobin synthesis in a transgenic mouse model of SCD. We found that 8 weeks of treatment with pomalidomide induced modest increases of HbF with similar efficacy as hydroxyurea. However, in stark contrast to hydroxyurea's myelosuppressive effects, pomalidomide augmented erythropoiesis and preserved bone marrow function. Surprisingly, combinatory therapy with both drugs failed to mitigate hydroxyurea's myelotoxic effects and caused loss of HbF induction. These findings support further evaluation of pomalidomide as a novel therapy for SCD.
New treatment strategy for Crow-Fukase (POEMS) syndrome]	Crow-Fukase syndrome, also called POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M-protein, and skin changes) syndrome, is a rare cause of demyelinating and axonal mixed neuropathy with multiorgan involvement. The pathogenesis of Crow-Fukase syndrome is not well understood, but overproduction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), probably mediated by monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells, is likely to be responsible for most of the characteristic symptoms. There is no established treatment regimen. In appropriate candidates, high-dose chemotherapies with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is highly recommended, because this treatment could result in obvious improvement in neuropathy as well as other symptoms, with a significant decrease in serum VEGF levels. Indication of this treatment has not yet been established, and long-term prognosis is unclear at present. Thalidomide should be considered for patients who are not indicated for transplantation therapy. Treatments that should be considered as future therapy include lenalidomide, bortezomib, and anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody (bevacizumab).
Pulmonary zygomycosis in a non-neutropenic patient with myelodysplastic syndrome on lenalidomide.	Pulmonary zygomycosis is an uncommon infection that occurs mostly in immunocompromised patients. We report the case of a 75-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome, treated with lenalidomide for 3 months, who developed respiratory failure and a rapidly progressive left upper lobe  consolidation. An extensive workup was unrevealing of the etiology, and the patient expired. A full autopsy was declined, but an in situ post-mortem transbronchial lung biopsy revealed pulmonary zygomycosis. This unique case illustrates the potential risks of lenalidomide therapy in patients  with myelodysplastic syndrome and the difficulties in diagnosing pulmonary zygomycosis. To our knowledge this is the first report of a diagnostic in situ post-mortem transbronchial lung biopsy.
Lenalidomide for treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes.	Lenalidomide is a second generation immunomodulatory agent (IMiD), which currently represents the standard of care for treatment of transfusion dependent lower risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients with deletion (5q). Lenalidomide has unique activity with a high transfusion independence rate observed in this subset of patients. In this article we summarize the clinical experience using lenalidomide for treatment of del (5q) MDS. We highlight the mechanism of action and the recent advances in understanding the biology of del (5q) MDS. We also explore its potential use and the efforts to further improve its activity in non-del (5q) MDS.
Approach to new therapeutics: investigation by the use of MDS-derived cell lines.	Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of aquired hematopoietic disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, and increased risk of progression of acute myeloid leukemia. For a long period of time, the standard therapy for MDS was hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, however DNA methyltransferase inhibitors (DNMT inhibitors) including decitabine (DAC) and azacitidine (AZA), and lenalidomide, a derivative of thalidomide have been highlighted as new chemotherapeutic agents for MDS. However, the underlying mechanisms of action of these drugs have not been fully defined yet. Therefore, we investigated the in vitro effects of DNMT inhibitors and lenalidomide on an MDS-derived cell line, MDS92 and its blastic subline MDS-L, both of which carry del(5q). MDS-L cells were found to be quite sensitive to DAC, which induced to cell death through DNA damage-mediated G2 arrest via p53- independent pathways. Gene expression profiling suggested that DAC affects biogroups representing hematological systems, cellular development, cell death and apoptosis. Next, we examined the effects of lenalidomide on MDS-L. Cell growth was inhibited and multinucleated cells were frequently formed prior to cell death by lenalidomide treatment. Time-lapse microscopic observation and DNA ploidy analysis revealed that lenalidomide does not affect DNA synthesis itself but inhibits cytokinesis of MDS-L cells. The gene expression profiling showed decreased expression of M phase-related genes. These data contribute to the understanding of action mechanisms of lenalidomide on MDS with del(5q).
European perspective on multiple myeloma treatment strategies: update following recent congresses.	The management of multiple myeloma has undergone profound changes over the recent past as a result of advances in our understanding of the disease biology as well as improvements in treatment and supportive care strategies. Notably, recent years have seen a surge in studies incorporating the novel agents thalidomide, bortezomib, and lenalidomide into treatment for different disease stages and across different patient groups. This article presents an update to a previous review of European treatment practices and is based on discussions during an expert meeting that was convened to review novel agent data published or presented at medical meetings until the end of 2011 and to assess their impact on treatment strategies.
Bortezomib induces heme oxygenase-1 expression in multiple myeloma.	Multiple myeloma (MM) is a progressive malignant disorder characterized by accumulation of plasma cells in the bone marrow. MM remains an incurable disease with a 5-y survival rate of approximately 40%. While clinical response rates to first line chemotherapeutics are high, disease relapse is inevitable, and occurs because a small fraction of the original myeloma cells appear to be resistant to treatment. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is an Nrf2 transcription factor-regulated gene that is commonly induced following oxidative stress and cellular injury, functioning to decrease oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, protecting against apoptosis and altering the cell cycle. We and others have highlighted the role of HO-1 in providing cellular protection against chemotherapeutic drugs in a number of cancer cells, which we have highlighted here in this Extra View. Furthermore, we explored the expression of HO-1 in multiple myeloma cells in response to the key anti-myeloma drugs bortezomib and lenalidomide. We show here for the first time that bortezomib increases HO-1 expression in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, we also observe that HO-1 is increased in lenalidomide-resistant MM cell lines. Altogether, we highlight a possible role for HO-1 in basal and acquired chemoresistance in MM.
Immunotherapy for tuberculosis: what's the better choice?	A Th1/Th2 imbalance in tuberculosis (TB) patients caused by a decreased Th1 response and an increased Th2 response is a significant factor in the pathogenesis and development of TB. Protective immune responses to TB include bacteriostatic and bactericidal responses. Unfortunately, however, immunoprotection and immune pathology co-exist in TB patients. Immunotherapy for TB principally aims to restore the Th1/Th2 balance by enhancing the Th1 response and suppressing the excessive Th2 response. Immunotherapy for TB can be classified into three categories: immune-enhancing therapy using cytokines, immunosuppressive therapy, and immunomodulatory therapy. Immunomodulatory therapy targets the Th1/Th2 imbalance and includes cytokine regulation therapy, antibody regulation therapy, a multi-dose heat-inactivated Mycobacterium vaccae vaccine, thymosin hormones and a DNA vaccine. A new approach in supplementary TB immunotherapy is to simultaneously up-regulate the Th1 response and down-regulate the Th2 response. While immunotherapy can contribute to TB treatment, it may also cause immunopathological injury. Therefore, immunotherapy needs to be improved and further studied to maximize its potential.
Myelodysplastic syndromes: a challenging disease for patients and physicians.	The biological mechanisms underlying the ineffective haematopoiesis and increased risk of leukaemic evolution in MDS is largely known. A careful clinical and cytogenetical assessment is required to correctly classify and risk stratify the patients. A curative approach with allogeneic stem cell transplantation should always be considered at the initial assessment. In low-risk patient receiving chronic RBC transfusions, symptomatic iron-overload is a reality and carries a significant mortality, and therefore, the iron status should be monitored and chelators used when indicated. The first line treatment of anaemia is erythroid growth factors. Lenalidomide is a highly potent therapy in low-risk MDS with del 5q, however, the treatment carries a high risk of rapidly developing neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Several promising drugs are currently under investigation in low-risk MDS including thrombopoietin analogues and epigenetically active drugs.
Light-chain amyloidosis: SCT, novel agents and beyond.	Light-chain amyloidosis is a plasma cell dyscrasia characterized by the production of fibrillar proteins comprised of monoclonal light chains, which deposit in tissues causing multiorgan dysfunction and death. The diagnosis is challenging and requires a biopsy and often specialized testing to confirm the subtype of systemic disease. The goal of treatment is eradication of the monoclonal plasma cell population and suppression of the pathologic light chains, which improve organ function and extend survival. Standard treatment approaches have included high-dose melphalan followed by autologous hematopoietic SCT or oral melphalan with dexamethasone. The use of novel agents (thalidomide, lenalidomide and bortezomib) alone and in combination with steroids and alkylating agents has shown efficacy and continues to be explored. A risk-adapted approach to SCT followed by novel agents as consolidation, reduces treatment-related mortality with promising activity. Immunotherapy targeting pathologic plasma cells and amyloid fibrils is being developed and could potentially eliminate visceral amyloid deposits. Improved understanding of the biology that renders light-chains amyloidogenic and a commitment to refer patients to specialized centers conducting well-designed clinical trials is essential to improve patient outcomes. 
Treatment of primary systemic amyloidosis (AL): role of intensive and standard therapy.	Immunoglobulin light-chain (AL) amyloidosis is a clonal plasma cell dyscrasia. Delay in diagnosis is the major hurdle in improving the outcomes of AL patients. Almost all patients with systemic AL need cytotoxic therapy. Treatment can improve symptoms and quality of life, as well as extend survival. Supportive care is an integral part of the treatment plan. Severity of cardiac involvement is an important determinant of prognosis and influences the choice of therapy. Cardiac biomarkers and serum free light chain assay are important tools for assessing prognosis and monitoring treatment response. Myeloablative chemotherapy with melphalan and autologous stem cell rescue appears to offer survival benefit; however, it is an option for only a quarter of AL patients. Standard-dose combination chemotherapy with steroids and alkylating agents is a safe and effective treatment strategy that can result in improvement of organ function in many patients. Newer agents such as bortezomib and lenalidomide have shown promising activity and are being evaluated as part of combination regimens in clinical trials.
Lenalidomide in combination with an activin A-neutralizing antibody: preclinical rationale for a novel anti-myeloma strategy.	Given the prevalence of osteolytic bone disease in multiple myeloma (MM), novel therapies targeting bone microenvironment are essential. Previous studies have identified activin A to be of critical importance in MM-induced osteolysis. Lenalidomide is a known and approved treatment strategy for relapsed MM. Our findings demonstrate that lenalidomide acts directly on bone marrow stromal cells via an Akt-mediated increase in Jun N-terminal kinase-dependent signaling resulting in activin A secretion, with consequent inhibition of osteoblastogenesis. Here, we attempted to augment the antitumor benefits of lenalidomide while overcoming its effects on osteoblastogenesis by combining it with a neutralizing antibody to activin A. Increased activin A secretion induced by lenalidomide was abrogated by the addition of activin A-neutralizing antibody, which effectively restored osteoblast function and inhibited MM-induced osteolysis without negating the cytotoxic effects of lenalidomide on malignant cells. This provides the rationale for an ongoing clinical trial (NCT01562405) combining lenalidomide with an anti-activin A strategy. 
Mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with myelodyplastic syndrome display distinct functional alterations that are modulated by lenalidomide.	The contribution of the bone marrow microenvironment in myelodysplastic syndrome is controversial. We therefore analyzed the functional properties of primary mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome in the presence or absence of lenalidomide. Compared to healthy controls, clonality and growth were reduced across all disease stages. Furthermore, differentiation defects and particular expression of adhesion and cell surface molecules (e.g. CD166, CD29, CD146) were detected. Interestingly, the levels of stromal derived factor 1-alpha in patients' cells culture supernatants were almost 2-fold lower (P<0.01) than those in controls and this was paralleled by a reduced induction of migration of CD34(+) hematopoietic cells. Co-cultures of mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with CD34(+) cells from healthy donors resulted in reduced numbers of cobblestone area-forming cells and fewer colony-forming units. Exposure of stromal cells from patients and controls to lenalidomide led to a further reduction of stromal derived factor 1-alpha secretion and cobblestone area formation, respectively. Moreover, lenalidomide pretreatment of mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with low but not high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome was able to rescue impaired erythroid and myeloid colony formation of early hematopoietic progenitors. In conclusion, our analyses support the notion that the stromal microenvironment is involved in the pathophysiology of myelodysplastic syndrome thus representing a potential target for therapeutic interventions. 
Modest activity of pomalidomide in patients with myelofibrosis and significant anemia.	We evaluated single agent pomalidomide for myelofibrosis-associated anemia. First, 21 patients received pomalidomide 3.0mg/day on 21-day-on/7-day-off schedule. Due to poor tolerance the study was quickly suspended. Second, 29 patients received pomalidomide 0.5mg/day continuously. Three patients (10%) experienced clinical improvement in hemoglobin per International-Working-Group criteria (median time to response 1.6 months; median response duration 6.7 months). Ten patients were RBC-transfusion-dependent per Delphi criteria; 2 (20%) achieved RBC-transfusion-independence (time to response 0.9 months in both; response duration of 8.3 and 15 months). One grade 3/4 toxicity (neutropenia) occurred. Pomalidomide at low dose is well tolerated but has modest clinical activity in myelofibrosis. 
Multiple myeloma]	Multiple myeloma is one of the most common hematological malignancies with increasing prevalence. Not until the introduction of 1 or 2 cycles of highdose therapy with the support of hematopoietic cells meant a certain progress in the prognosis of patients. The radical change in the therapy efficiency was not made possible until the so-called new or targeting drugs -  thalidomide, bortezomib and lenalidomide. The 2 latter preparations have particularly changed the approach to the disease itself from one of the least prognostically favourable hematological tumours to a longterm controllable malignancy with a potential to treat at least some of the patients. Currently, 3 ways of further progress towards more efficient treatment methods are under investigation: a) maintenance or consolidation treatment aimed at further intensification of therapeutic response, b) combination of targeting drugs and c) efficiency of the "second generation" targeting drugs.
Successful treatment of an HIV-positive multiple myeloma patient with high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and maintenance therapy with lenalidomide]	A 45-year-old HIV positive male who had previously been administered anti-retrovirus therapy (ART) resulting in a good virological response and with a CD4 count of more than 1,000/μl, complained of general fatigue during a periodic examination. Laboratory data showed decreased Hb (10.8 g/dl) and increased T.P (12.0 g/dl) and IgG (9,077 mg/dl). Monoclonal gammopathy (IgG-λ) was identified and bone marrow aspiration revealed 37.6% atypical plasma cells, leading to the diagnosis of symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM) (ISS clinical staging III).Four courses of VD (bortezomib+dexamethasone) therapy were administered with concurrent ART resulting in VGPR (very good partial response), followed by peripheral blood stem cell collection (the mobilizing chemotherapy was cyclophosphamide). Then, together with ART, high-dose chemotherapy (Mel-200; L-PAM) was administered with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). Reconstitution of white blood cells was achieved at 10 days after PBSCT. There were no adverse effects of ART and the viral load of HIV was well controlled during the period of these treatments. The final assessment was VGPR and 10 mg/day of lenalidomide has since been administered as maintenance therapy. Standard treatment combined with PBSCT for juvenile-onset MM is also effective and safe for HIV-positive patients receiving ART. 
Rapid improvement of fluid retention with lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone for POEMS syndrome relapsed after autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation]	We report a 53-year-old male with POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes) syndrome who relapsed after autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation (ASCT), but responded extremely well to lenalidomide (LEN) plus low dose dexamethasone (Ld) therapy. The patient had been diagnosed with POEMS syndrome in November 2006, and underwent ASCT in February 2007. In July 2011, he developed respiratory distress, generalized edema, and massive bilateral pleural effusion. Plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and M protein were increased, strongly indicating a relapse. Ld therapy was remarkably effective for these symptoms, resulting in complete remission with M-protein becoming undetectable by immunofixation. Since completing 11 courses of therapy with an every 4 weeks regimen, he has remained in clinical remission. The patient's activities of daily living have also markedly improved from total physical incapacity to being able to stand with slight assistance. LEN is associated with a lower incidence of peripheral neuropathy than other new drugs. Although LEN has occasionally been given to patients with POEMS syndrome in recent years, there are still few reports on its use for patients with recurrent disease after ASCT. Our successful management of this patient suggests that Ld therapy is not only relatively safe but also a promising option for POEMS syndrome relapsing after ASCT. 
Effects of MRP8, LPS, and lenalidomide on the expressions of TNF-α , brain-enriched, and inflammation-related microRNAs in the primary astrocyte culture.	Astrocytes are now recognized as a heterogeneous class of cells with many important and diverse functions in healthy and diseased central nervous system (CNS). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, noncoding RNAs which may have key roles in astrocytes activation in response to various stimuli. We performed quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) to detect changes in the expressions of brain-enriched miRNAs (124, 134, 9, 132, and 138), inflammation-related miRNAs (146a, 21, 181a, 221, and 222), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF- α ) in the rat primary astrocyte cultures after stimulation with myeloid-related protein 8 (MRP8) and lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Further, we inhibited the expression of TNF- α in the astrocytes by using TNF- α inhibitor (lenalidomide) and tested for the first time the effect of this inhibition on the expressions of the same tested miRNAs. Stimulation of the astrocytes with MRP8 or LPS leads to significant upregulation of miRNAs (124, 134, 9, 132, 146a, 21, 181a, 221, and 222), while miRNA-138 was downregulated. TNF- α inhibition with lenalidomide leads to opposite expressions of the tested miRNAs. These miRNAs may play an important role in activation of the astrocytes and may be a novel target for cell-specific therapeutic interventions in multiple CNS diseases. 
Multiple myeloma and other malignancies: a pilot study from the Houston VA.	The prognosis of multiple myeloma (MM) has improved in recent years. Therefore, second malignant neoplasms (SMNs) may become an issue for longer term survivors with MM. An increased incidence of second malignancies was reported in patients who received lenalidomide for relapsed or refractory myeloma.
New treatment options for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Chemoimmunotherapy is the gold standard of therapy for patients with advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), resulting in high and durable complete response rates. However, all patients eventually relapse and CLL remains incurable. Newer and more rationally developed compounds are needed to improve CLL therapy, particularly in cases of refractory disease.
Pomalidomide for the treatment of relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma: a review of biological and clinical data.	Despite the improvements thanks to the introduction of proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), nearly all myeloma patients eventually become refractory to these drugs. Consequently, the outcome of these patients is very poor. Pomalidomide is a new IMiD with a similar structure to the commonly used IMiD thalidomide and lenalidomide. Pomalidomide exhibited more potent anti-myeloma activity and a similar favorable safety profile compared with thalidomide and lenalidomide. In Phase I-II studies pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone demonstrated activity in myeloma patients refractory to both bortezomib and IMiDs. Based on the results of a Phase III trial, the FDA and EMA agencies granted accelerated approval to pomalidomide, which is now considered a new effective strategy for relapsed and/or refractory myeloma patients. Very promising results were obtained when pomalidomide-dexamethasone was used in combination with other compounds. This review provides updated information about pharmacokinetics, mechanism of action, resistance, clinical efficacy and safety of pomalidomide. 
Critical role of TNF-α in cerebral aneurysm formation and progression to rupture.	Alterations in TNF-α expression have been associated with cerebral aneurysms, but a direct role in formation, progression, and rupture has not been established.
Lenalidomide.	Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD), which is well established and approved in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) and 5q-myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The mode of action includes immune modulation, anti-angiogenetic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proliferative effects. Development of lenalidomide initiated a profound shift in therapeutic approaches especially toward MM. This chapter will discuss the mode of action of lenalidomide as well as its clinical applications. Important clinical phase II and III data of lenalidomide are presented. Currently, lenalidomide is not only investigated in MM and MDS, but also in malignant lymphomas and other entities. 
Pomalidomide.	Pomalidomide (originally CC-4047 or 3-amino-thalidomide) is a derivative of thalidomide that is antiangiogenic and also acts as an immunomodulator. Pomalidomide, as the newest immunomodulatory agent (IMiD), has shown substantial in vitro antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects. In vivo studies have suggested limited cross-resistance between lenalidomide and pomalidomide, and the response of pomalidomide in relapsed and refractory (RR) multiple myeloma (MM) patients, including those who are refractory to both lenalidomide and bortezomib, has induced notable enthusiasm. Several studies have evaluated continuous (2 mg/day) or alternate (5 mg/2 day) dose schedules of pomalidomide, as well as 2 versus 4 mg schedules, and pomalidomide alone versus in combination with dexamethasone or other antimyeloma agents. Since pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone has shown better responses, progression-free and overall survival than high-dose dexamethasone or pomalidomide alone, subsequent trials investigating pomalidomide combination therapy have been initiated. Among these trials combinations with alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide, bendamustin), anthracyclins (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin), proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib, carfilzomib), and various others can be found. Pomalidomide has also been assessed in AL amyloidosis, MPNs (myelofibrosis [MF]), Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, solid tumors (sarcoma, lung cancer), or HIV and--for AL amyloidosis and MF--has already proven remarkable activity. Due to its potency, pomalidomide was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for RRMM in 2/2013 and has also been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
Current and future therapeutic approach for Waldenström's macroglobulinemia.	Waldenström's macroglobulinemia is a rare B-cell malignancy defined by medullar infiltration by clonal lymphoplasmocytic cells and monoclonal IgM secretion. Treatment is reserved for symptomatic patients. The main first-line treatment strategies combine immunotherapy (principally the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab) with chemotherapeutic agents, including alkylating agents, purine analogs and/or bortezomib. The overall response rate to these conventional treatments is between 70 and 90%, but a cure cannot be expected. For patients with relapsed or refractory disease, drugs that were not used for first-line treatment and other agents such as immunomodulators can be tried, but the response rate is generally lower and the responses are shorter lived. Recently, advances in our understanding of the biology of Waldenström's macroglobulinemia have led to the development of new drugs targeting hyperactive pathways. This review focuses on current treatment options and on new therapeutic developments. 
Inhibition of motility and cytoprotective action of supidimide in the human stomach]	200 mg of Supidimide inhibit the spontaneous motility of the stomach for 90 to 120 min after oral administration. The effect is significant (placebo-control). 100, 200, and 400 mg of Supidimide decrease significantly the gastric transmural potential difference curves triggered with ethanol.
CC-3052: a water-soluble analog of thalidomide and potent inhibitor of activation-induced TNF-alpha production.	The immunomodulatory drug thalidomide has been shown to be clinically useful in a number of situations due to its ability to inhibit TNF-alpha synthesis. However, its use is restricted by potentially serious side effects, including teratogenicity and neuorotoxicity; furthermore, insolubility may present problems in terms of systemic bioavailability. Recently, structural modifications of thalidomide have been designed enabling greatly enhanced anti-TNF-alpha activity in LPS-treated mice. In contrast to thalidomide (LPS-induced TNF-alpha IC50 approximately 200 microM in DMSO) and other analogs tested, one of these compounds, CC-3052 (IC50 approximately 1 microM in water), is water soluble. Furthermore, this analog exhibits increased stability in human plasma (t(1/2) approximately 17.5 vs 1.5 h for thalidomide) and appears to be nontoxic, nonmutagenic, and nonteratogenic. At pharmacologically active levels, cellular proliferation and LPS-induced IL-6 mRNA and IL-12p40 mRNA (as well as IL-1beta and IL-6 protein levels) in whole blood cultures were not affected; apparent inhibition of NK activity by CC-3052 was reversed upon addition of exogenous rTNF-alpha. In addition, IL-10 mRNA and protein levels were increased. These properties are consistent with results indicating inhibition of phosphodiesterase type IV activity by CC-3052. Furthermore, CC-3052 did not increase the degradation rate of macrophage TNF-alpha transcripts nor inhibit LPS-induced primary macrophage NF-kappaB activation. Taken together, the potency of selective TNF-alpha inhibition, water solubility, and increased plasma stability make CC-3052 an excellent candidate for further development and clinical evaluation for the treatment of TNF-alpha-mediated disease.
Enhanced potency of perfluorinated thalidomide derivatives for inhibition of LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha production is associated with a change of mechanism of action.	Perfluorination of phthalimides leads to dramatically increased potency as inhibitors of TNF-alpha production. We examined the enantiodependence for several tetrafluorophthalimides and alpha-methylthalidomide, 3. Only 3 exhibited strikingly enantiodependent activity. The key structural determinant for the enhanced activity is the tetrafluorophthaloyl group, which confers enhanced potency and a change in the mechanism of inhibition.
Thalidomide analogs and PDE4 inhibition.	N-Phthaloyl 3-amino-3-arylpropionic acid analogs of thalidomide that are potent inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor-alpha are reported. These compounds were found to be potent inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 4.
