Relation of technetium-99m pyrophosphate accumulation to time interval after onset of acute myocardial infarction as assessed by a tomographic acquisition technique.	Technetium-99m pyrophosphate (Tc-99m PYP) myocardial scintigraphy was performed in 110 clinically stable patients with acute or healed acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Tomography was performed 12 hours to 7 days (group A), 7 to 30 days (Group B), 1 to 6 months (Group C) and after greater than 6 months (group D) after AMI. All 40 patients in group A, 9 of 31 in group B, 1 of 22 in group C, and no patient (0 of 17) in group D had a pathologic Tc-99m PYP tomogram. Relative Tc-99m PYP accumulation within the area of infarction was measured as infarct zone to blood pool ratio, which decreased significantly (p less than 0.001) from group A (1.54 +/- 0.39) to group B (0.89 +/- 0.24), group C (0.8 +/- 0.19) and group D (0.76 +/- 0.13). These data were confirmed by sequential scintigraphy in 17 patients. It is concluded that a persisting Tc-99m PYP uptake is rarely found greater than 1 month after AMI using tomographic imaging techniques in clinically stable patients with coronary artery disease. Positive results on Tc-99m PYP tomography are a reliable indicator of AMI. Thus, Tc-99m PYP tomography is not only a sensitive but also a specific imaging technique for AMI, which might be especially useful for diagnosis of reinfarction.
Evaluation and clinical use of early washout ratio of thallium-201 in normal and ischemic myocardium after dipyridamole-induced vasodilation using ring-type emission computed tomography.	Using newly developed ring-type emission computed tomography (SPECT), we investigated the washout ratio (WR) of T1-201 in the myocardium quantitatively with fast dynamic scanning after infusion of dipyridamole (0.57 mg/kg), and assessed the feasibility of early WR as a marker to detect coronary artery disease. Twenty-three patients with and 8 patients without coronary artery disease had serial SPECT images obtained every 5 min for 45 min and at 180 min after dipyridamole and subsequent T1-201 injection. The best appropriate transaxial slice was selected for WR analysis. Most appropriate diagnostic time was 25 min after infusion of T1-201 (WR-25). Normal WR-25 was 7.1 +/- 4.0%, 5.9 +/- 3.1% and 7.1 +/- 2.3% at the septum, anterior and lateral wall, respectively. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy to identify coronary stenosis greater than 50% with a usage of abnormal WR-25, defined as WR-25 less than (mean of normals--1SD) in each region of inferest of the left ventricle (LV), were 96%, 100% and 97%, respectively. These results were better than those achieved by visual analysis (sensitivity 78%, specificity 100%, accuracy 84%). In patients with single as well as multivessel disease, the regional accuracy in assessing stenosis of more than 50% in the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and left circumflex artery (LCX) by WR-25 was 94% and 83%, respectively, which was significantly better than using visual methods (LAD 72% and LCX 50%; p less than 0.05). Thus, evaluation of early washout ratios (WR-25) after dipyridamole injection is a valuable method to increase sensitivity in assessing regional myocardial perfusion abnormality and is helpful in detection of ischemic heart disease, even with multivessel disease.
Bio-sorption of Tl-201 radionuclide on olive pomace.	This work presents an investigation on the bio-sorption of Tl-201 radionuclide used in nuclear medicine on olive pomace. The experimental parameters were chosen as temperature, the initial pH of the solution, stirring speed, bio-sorbent dose and nominal particle size of bio-sorbent. The initial pH of the solution was found to be the most effective parameter. Thermodynamic analysis gave negative values for ΔG and ΔH. The kinetics of the bio-sorption process fitted very well to the pseudo-second order rate model.
Comparison of rates of cation release and of conformational change in dog kidney Na, K-ATPase.	1. It is now widely believed that the main rate-limiting step in the sodium-potassium pump (Na, K-ATPase) cycle is a conformational change between two forms of the dephosphoenzyme (E2 and E1) and that this change releases to the cell interior potassium ions occluded within the E2 form. 2. If this hypothesis is correct, and if occluded ions cannot be released directly from dephosphoenzyme in the E2 conformation, we should expect that, under any given conditions, the rate of release of the occluded ions would be identical with the rate of the conformational change. 3. Using the potassium congeners 86Rb, 137Cs and 204Tl, the rates of release of the occluded ions can be measured by a rapid ion-exchange technique. Using the fluorescence probes fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), eosin or 5-iodoacetamido-fluorescein (5-IAF), the rates of the conformational change can be measured by stopped-flow fluorimetry. 4. A comparison of the two rates in the absence of ATP showed that the rate of release of the occluded ions was usually somewhat faster than the rate of the fluorescence change. The discrepancy was probably caused by a very slow direct release of occluded ions from enzyme in the E2 form, but we cannot exclude the possibility that it is the result of systematic errors. In the presence of 5 microM-ATP, both rates were increased and there was no significant difference between them. 5. The results are compatible with the hypothesis that the same conformational change alters the fluorescence of the fluorescent probes and releases the occluded potassium congener ions.
Correlates of lung/heart ratio of thallium-201 in coronary artery disease.	We studied 306 patients with chest pain (262 with coronary artery disease and 44 with no coronary artery disease) to determine which of 23 clinical, exercise, thallium, and angiographic variables best discriminate between patients with increased lung/heart ratios of thallium versus those with normal ratios. Normal lung/heart ratio values were defined using an additional 45 subjects with less than 1% probability of coronary artery disease. The number of diseased vessels was the best discriminator between patients with increased ratios versus those with normal ratios. Double product at peak exercise, number of segments with abnormal wall motion, patient gender, and duration of exercise were also significant discriminators. Using discriminant function analysis these variables could correctly identify 81% of cases with increased lung/heart ratios and 72% of cases with normal ratios. These results indicate that an increased lung/heart ratio of thallium reflects exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction and affords a better understanding of why this thallium parameter is a powerful prognostic indicator in patients with chest pain.
Increased lung uptake during myocardial scintigraphy improves the detection and localization of coronary artery disease.	Increased lung uptake during exercise thallium 201 scanning denotes severe ventricular hypofunction. To assess whether there is any relationship between this finding and the stenosis of a single coronary artery, the authors studied 140 patients (age 57.5 +/- 12 years) with both exercise thallium and coronary angiography within three months. A planar view was acquired for two hundred forty seconds immediately postexercise and prior to the single photon emission computed tomography acquisition. Two identical regions of interest outlining the left ventricle and the right lung in the planar view were used for calculation of the lung uptake, expressed as a lung-to-heart counts ratio. The patients were divided into four angiographic groups: (I) lesions at the left anterior descending (LAD), n = 35; (II) stenosis at the circumflex (CRX), n = 35; (III) stenosis at the right coronary artery (RCA), n = 35; and (IV) another group of 35 normal subjects serving as controls. No patient had a previous myocardial infraction (MI) or any cardiac operation. Patients in groups I (0.53 +/- 0.094) and II (0.44 +/- 0.072) had higher lung uptake than those in groups III (0.43 +/- 0.061) or IV (0.42 +/- 0.050). There was no difference between groups III and IV, or II and IV, but the difference between I and IV was of statistical significance (P < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Super-normal 201Tl retention in hibernating myocardium: an ex-vivo study using the failing human heart.	Although the relationship between delayed 201Tl distribution and blood flow in acutely ischemic and infarcted myocardium has been widely explored in the experimental setting, its behaviour in chronically hypoperfused dysfunctioning human myocardium has not yet been evaluated.
