Stage-specific responses following infection with Theileria annulata as evaluated using ELISA.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using sporozoite, schizont and piroplasm antigens was developed to study the immune response of animals that had been immunised with either Theileria annulata sporozoites or schizont-infected cells and then challenged with sporozoites. The aim was to identify the most suitable antigen for a routine screening test and to compare the sensitivity of the latter with that of the indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT). As determined by ELISA, cattle produced antibodies to all three antigens, regardless of the method of immunisation. The schizont antigen was the least sensitive, whereas the sporozoite antigen displayed high pre-inoculation values. In contrast, the piroplasm antigen exhibited low non-specific pre-infection levels and high post-immunisation and post-challenge values according to both ELISA and IFAT. Therefore, the latter was though to be the most appropriate antigen for use in ELISA.
Phenotypic analysis of bovine leukocyte cell lines infected with Theileria annulata.	Six cell lines that were infected with Theileria annulata were compared for expression of a range of surface molecules. Immunofluorescence staining with the panel of monoclonal antibodies formulated for the Second Workshop was analysed by flow cytometry. Four lines generated from bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells by exposure to sporozoites in vitro and one line generated in vivo from an infected calf were phenotypically similar. Phenotypic analysis of those lines did not demonstrate a monocyte or B cell origin, but indicated they were not derived from T cells. An uncloned line generated in vivo from an infected calf was CD3+ and gamma/delta TCR+. The results indicate that a wider range of host cell types may be infected in vivo than suspected hitherto and that some of the cells may express an abnormal pattern of surface molecules. Both could have profound consequences for the pathogenesis of T. annulata infection.
Recent development in control of Theileria annulata in Iran.	During 1973-1990 cattle immunization, in Iran, was induced by two strains within an interval of one month: first the milder and then the mild strain. Although this method of vaccination rendered satisfactory results in the field, yet production, maintenance in deep-freezers and transportation in liquid nitrogen particularly to remote areas of the country proved to be uneconomical and time consuming. Therefore, in order to reduce cost and save time, a new method involving only one local and live attenuated vaccine strain was sought. Reports received from different ecological areas of the country have shown no presence of any significant abnormal side-effects in vaccinated cattle and the immunization results have been highly satisfactory.
