Purification and characterization of geranylgeranylglyceryl phosphate synthase from a thermoacidophilic archaeon, Thermoplasma acidophilum.	We purified a geranylgeranylglyceryl phosphate (GGGP) synthase from Thermoplasma acidophilum by several steps of chromatography. Based on the proteinase-fragment-mass-pattern analysis of the SDS-PAGE band of the partially purified protein, the DNA sequence encoding the protein was identified from the whole genome sequence database of the species. The gene encoding GGGP synthase in T. acidophilum was cloned after PCR amplification of the gene from the genomic DNA. The recombinant enzyme was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. A single band with a molecular mass of 27 kDa was obtained by SDS-PAGE analysis. The apparent native molecular mass of the enzyme was about 50 kDa based on gel filtration chromatography, suggesting that the enzyme is active as a homodimer. As the GGGP synthase from Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum has been reported as a pentamer, the enzymes of the two organisms have different oligomeric structures. Other characteristics, including substrate specificity, are similar for the GGGPs of these organisms.
The Thermoplasma acidophilum Lon protease has a Ser-Lys dyad active site.	A gene with significant similarity to bacterial Lon proteases was identified during the sequencing of the genome of the thermoacidophilic archaeon Thermoplasma acidophilum. Protein sequence comparison revealed that Thermoplasma Lon protease (TaLon) is more similar to the LonB proteases restricted to Gram-positive bacteria than to the widely distributed bacterial LonA. However, the active site residues of the protease and ATPase domain are highly conserved in all Lon proteases. Using site-directed mutagenesis we show here that TaLon and EcLon, and probably all other Lon proteases, contain a Ser-Lys dyad active site. The TaLon active site mutants were fully assembled and, similar to TaLon wild-type, displayed an apparent molar mass of 430 kDa upon gelfiltration. This would be consistent with a hexameric complex and indeed electron micrographs of TaLon revealed ring-shaped particles, although of unknown symmetry. Comparison of the ATPase activity of Lon wild-type from Thermoplasma or Escherichia coli with respective protease active site mutants revealed differences in Km and V values. This suggests that in the course of protein degradation by wild-type Lon the protease domain might influence the activity of the ATPase domain.
Crystal structures of the tricorn interacting factor F3 from Thermoplasma acidophilum, a zinc aminopeptidase in three different conformations.	The tricorn interacting factor F3 is an 89 kDa zinc aminopeptidase from the archaeon Thermoplasma acidophilum. Together with the tricorn interacting factors F1 and F2, F3 degrades the tricorn protease products and thus completes the proteasomal degradation pathway by generating free amino acids. Here, we present the crystal structures of F3 in three different conformations at 2.3 A resolution. The zinc aminopeptidase is composed of four domains: an N-terminal saddle-like beta-structure domain; a thermolysin-like catalytic domain; a small barrel-like beta-structure domain; and an alpha-helical C-terminal domain, the latter forming a deep cavity at the active site. Three crystal forms provide snapshots of the molecular dynamics of F3 where the C-terminal domain can adapt to form an open, an intermediate and a nearly closed cavity, respectively. With the conserved Zn(2+)-binding motifs HEXXH and NEXFA as well as the N-terminal substrate-anchoring glutamate residues, F3 together with the leukotriene A4 hydrolase, represents a novel gluzincin subfamily of aminoproteases. We discuss the functional implications of these structures with respect to the underlying catalytic mechanism, substrate recognition and processing, and possible component interactions.
An extracellular--pepstatin insensitive acid protease produced by Thermoplasma volcanium.	In this study, some parameters for the production and caseinolytic activity of an extracellular thermostable acid protease from a thermoacidophilic archaeon Thermoplasma volcanium were determined. The highest level of growth and enzyme production were detected at pH 3.0 over an incubation period of 192 h at 60 degrees C. The pH optimum for the acid protease activity was 3.0 and the enzyme was fairly stable over a broad pH range (pH 3.0-8.0). The temperature for maximum activity of the enzyme was 55 degrees C and activity remained stable between 50 degrees C and 70 degrees C. These features could be of relevance for various biotechnological applications of this enzyme. Serine-(PMSF), cysteine-(DTT), metallo-(EDTA) and aspartate-(pepstatin) protease inhibitors did not inhibit the caseinolytic activity of the enzyme. Therefore, Tp. volcanium acid protease could be a member of the pepstatin-insensitive carboxyl proteinases.
Stereochemistry of reduction in digeranylgeranylglycerophospholipid reductase involved in the biosynthesis of archaeal membrane lipids from Thermoplasma acidophilum.	The basic core structure of archaeal membrane lipids is 2,3-di-O-phytanylglyceryl phosphate, which is formed by reduction of 2,3-di-O-geranylgeranylglyceryl phosphate. This reaction is the final committed step in the biosynthesis of archaeal membrane lipids and is catalyzed by digeranylgeranylglycerophospholipid reductase (DGGGPL reductase). The putative DGGGPL reductase gene (Ta0516m) of Thermoplasma acidophilum was cloned and expressed. The purified recombinant enzyme appeared to catalyze the formation of 2,3-di-O-phytanylglyceryl phosphate from 2,3-di-O-geranylgeranylglyceryl phosphate, which confirmed that the Ta0516m gene of T. acidophilum encodes DGGGPL reductase. The stereospecificity in reduction of 2,3-di-O-phytylglyceryl phosphate by the recombinant reductase appeared to take place through addition of hydrogen in a syn manner by analyzing the enzyme reaction product by NMR spectroscopy.
Structural insights into unique substrate selectivity of Thermoplasma acidophilum D-aldohexose dehydrogenase.	The D-aldohexose dehydrogenase from the thermoacidophilic archaea Thermoplasma acidophilum (AldT) belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) superfamily and catalyzes the oxidation of several monosaccharides with a preference for NAD(+) rather than NADP(+) as a cofactor. It has been found that AldT is a unique enzyme that exhibits the highest dehydrogenase activity against D-mannose. Here, we describe the crystal structures of AldT in ligand-free form, in complex with NADH, and in complex with the substrate D-mannose, at 2.1 A, 1.65 A, and 1.6 A resolution, respectively. The AldT subunit forms a typical SDR fold with an unexpectedly long C-terminal tail and assembles into an intertwined tetramer. The D-mannose complex structure reveals that Glu84 interacts with the axial C2 hydroxyl group of the bound D-mannose. Structural comparison with Bacillus megaterium glucose dehydrogenase (BmGlcDH) suggests that the conformation of the glutamate side-chain is crucial for discrimination between D-mannose and its C2 epimer D-glucose, and the conformation of the glutamate side-chain depends on the spatial arrangement of nearby hydrophobic residues that do not directly interact with the substrate. Elucidation of the D-mannose recognition mechanism of AldT further provides structural insights into the unique substrate selectivity of AldT. Finally, we show that the extended C-terminal tail completely shuts the substrate-binding pocket of the neighboring subunit both in the presence and absence of substrate. The elaborate inter-subunit interactions between the C-terminal tail and the entrance of the substrate-binding pocket imply that the tail may play a pivotal role in the enzyme activity.
Crystallization and preliminary crystallographic study of glucose dehydrogenase from the archaebacterium Thermoplasma acidophilum.	Single crystals of glucose dehydrogenase from the archaebacterium Thermoplasma acidophilum were obtained using the hanging-drop vapour diffusion method and polyethylene glycol as a precipitant in the presence of NADP+ at pH 5.4. The crystals belong to the hexagonal space group P6122 or P6522, with unit cell dimensions a = b = 121.9 angstrom, c = 229.6 angstrom and with two molecules in the asymmetric unit.
Crystal structure and molecular modeling study of N-carbamoylsarcosine amidase Ta0454 from Thermoplasma acidophilum.	A crystal structure of the putative N-carbamoylsarcosine amidase (CSHase) Ta0454 from Thermoplasma acidophilum was solved by single-wavelength anomalous diffraction and refined at a resolution of 2.35A. CSHases are involved in the degradation of creatinine. Ta0454 shares a similar fold and a highly conserved C-D-K catalytic triad (Cys123, Asp9, and Lys90) with the structures of three cysteine hydrolases (PDB codes 1NBA, 1IM5, and 2H0R). Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of Ta0454/N-carbamoylsarcosine and Ta0454/pyrazinamide complexes were performed to determine the structural basis of the substrate binding pattern for each ligand. Based on the MD-simulated trajectories, the MM/PBSA method predicts binding free energies of -24.5 and -17.1 kcal/mol for the two systems, respectively. The predicted binding free energies suggest that Ta0454 is selective for N-carbamoylsarcosine over pyrazinamide, and zinc ions play an important role in the favorable substrate bound states.
The three-dimensional structure of proteasomes from Thermoplasma acidophilum as determined by electron microscopy using random conical tilting.	The three-dimensional structure of proteasomes from the archaebacterium Thermoplasma acidophilum has been determined to a resolution of approximately 2 nm from electron micrographs of negatively stained preparations using the method of 'random conical tilting'. The particles turn out to be essentially cylinder-shaped barrels, 15 nm long and 11 nm wide, enclosing a tripartite inner compartiment. An account is given of some of the present limitations which prevent to attain a higher resolution and possible ways to overcome these limitations are indicated.
Glycoconjugates synthesized via transglycosylation by a thermostable α-glucosidase from Thermoplasma acidophilum and its glycosynthase mutant.	A new method is presented for synthesizing arbutin glycosides using α-glucosidase (AglA) from Thermoplasma acidophilum and its glycosynthase mutant. An α-glycosynthase was constructed by substituting the catalytic nucleophile with the non-nucleophile glycine. Enzyme activity was then recovered using an external nucleophile. The transglycosylation reaction of AglA using maltose as a donor and arbutin as an acceptor produced arbutin coupled with a glucose moiety. The products were isolated and further analysed using preparative recycling HPLC. Arbutin glycosides linked to C-3, C-4, and C-6 were identified using NMR. The transglycosylation products of AglA were used as substrates for the enzyme reaction, which were hydrolyzed back again and reduced final yields. The glycosynthase mutant produced one main arbutin glycoside linked to C-4 with a yield of 38 % without further observed hydrolysis.
Enzymatic and regulatory properties of the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase from the thermoacidophilic archaeon Thermoplasma acidophilum.	Trehalose-6-phosphate synthase plays an important role in trehalose metabolism. It catalyzes the transfer of glucose from UDP-glucose (UDPG) to glucose 6-phosphate to produce trehalose-6-phosphate. Herein we describe the characterization of a trehalose-6-phosphate synthase from the thermoacidophilic archaeon Thermoplasma acidophilum. The dimeric enzyme could utilize UDPG, ADP-Glucose (ADPG) and GDP-Glucose (GDPG) as glycosyl donors and various phosphorylated monosaccharides as glycosyl acceptors. The optimal temperature and pH were found to be 60 °C and pH 6, and the enzyme exhibited notable pH and thermal stability. The enzymatic activity could be stimulated by divalent metal ions and polyanions heparin and chondroitin sulfate. Moreover, the protein was considerably resistant to additives ethanol, EDTA, urea, DTT, SDS, β-mercaptoethanol, methanol, isopropanol and n-butanol. Molecular modeling and mutagenesis analysis revealed that the N-loop region was important for the catalytic efficiency of the enzyme, indicating different roles of N-loop sequences in different trehalose-6-phosphate synthases.
Structural features of archaebacterial and eukaryotic proteasomes.	The 26S proteasome is the central protease of the ubiquitin-dependent pathway of protein degradation. The molecule has a molecular mass of approximately 2000 kD and has a highly conserved structure in eukaryotes. The 26S proteasome is formed by a barrel-shaped 20S core complex and two polar 19S complexes. The 20S complex has C2 symmetry and is formed by four seven-membered rings of which the outer rings (alpha-type subunits) are rotated by 25.7 degrees relative to the inner rings while the inner rings (beta-type subunits) are in register. From a comparison of the activity and regulation of the 26S and 20S particles it can be deduced that the 20S particle contains the protease activity while the 19S complex contains isopeptidase, ATPase and protein unfolding activities. In this article we describe the structures of various proteasome complexes as determined by electron microscopy and discuss structural implications of their subunit sequences.
Structural features of 26S and 20S proteasomes.	The 26S proteasome is the central protease of the ubiquitin-dependent pathway of protein degradation and has a highly conserved structure from slime molds to humans. The elongated molecule which has a molecular mass of approximately 2,000 kD is formed by a barrel-shaped 20S core complex and two polar 19S complexes. The 20S complex has C2 symmetry and is built by four seven-membered rings of which the outer rings are rotated by 26 degrees relative to the inner rings while the inner rings are in register. The 19S cap complex is asymmetric and therefore considerably less well understood on a structural level. From a comparison of the activity and regulation of the 26S and 20S particles, it can be deduced that the 20S particle contains the protease activity while the 19S complex is supposed to contain isopeptidase, oxidoreductase, ATPase and protein-unfolding activities. In this article we describe the structure of various proteasome complexes as determined by electron microscopy and discuss structural implications of their subunit sequences.
The crystal structure of citrate synthase from the thermophilic archaeon, Thermoplasma acidophilum.	The Archaea constitute a phylogenetically distinct, evolutionary domain and comprise organisms that live under environmental extremes of temperature, salinity and/or anaerobicity. Different members of the thermophilic Archaea tolerate temperatures in the range 55-110 degrees C, and the comparison of the structures of their enzymes with the structurally homogolous enzymes of mesophilic organisms (optimum growth temperature range 15-45 degrees C) may provide important information on the structural basis of protein thermostability. We have chosen citrate synthase, the first enzyme of the citric acid cycle, as a model enzyme for such studies.
The 1.5-nm projection structure of HeLa cell prosome-MCP (proteasome) provided by two-dimensional crystals.	We grew two-dimensional crystals of HeLa cell prosomes, also called multicatalytic proteinases (MCP) and proteasomes, for a structure determination by electron microscopy. The molecules were arranged in side views in these crystals. The crystals have p21 plane group symmetry with one particle per unit cell. This symmetry confirms previously published evidence indicating that eukaryotic prosome-MCPs are dimers of two identical halves. Structure factors from six crystals each comprising more than 1000 unit cells were combined to generate a 1.5-nm projection map. We discovered that while the general cylindrical shape of HeLa prosome-MCPs resembles the shape of the archaebacterial Thermoplasma acidophilum proteasomes, the internal structure differs significantly. We propose that because of different subunit composition, the architecture of HeLa prosome-MCPs differs from the basic architecture of related particles previously reported.
Molecular characterization of the "26S" proteasome complex from rat liver.	The molecular properties of an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent "26S" proteasome complex purified from rat liver were examined by physicochemical, biochemical, and morphological analyses. On ultracentrifugation, the proteasome complex sedimented as almost a single component with a sedimentation coefficient of 30.3S. Dynamic light-scattering measurements indicated that it has a diffusion coefficient of 1.38 x 10(-7) cm2/sec and a Stokes radius of 15.5 nm. From these two coefficients, the protein complex was estimated to have the high molecular weight of 2.02 x 10(6). Static light-scattering analysis indicated a molecular weight of 1.91 x 10(6) and a radius of gyration of 16.8 nm. The proteasome complex was found to be composed of multiple subunits of the 20S proteasome with molecular weights of 2.1-3.1 x 10(4) and 15-20 protein species with molecular weights of 3.5-11.0 x 10(4), which were directly associated with the 20S proteasome. The electron micrographic finding that the 26S proteasome complex had a caterpillar shape, direct electronmicroscopic observations on the subunit arrangement of the 20S proteasome, and classification of the subunits of the latter into two groups with respect to sequence homology suggested that the 26S complex is a symmetrical assembly of two domains, each containing a large terminal subset and half the central 20S subset of components. For clarification of the molecular structure of the 26S proteasome complex in solution, its physicochemical parameters were calculated theoretically using a model based on this caterpillar-shaped complex. The values obtained for the Stokes radius and radius of gyration of 12.2 and 14.9 nm were consistent with the experimental values. These results provide evidence that the 26S proteasome complex is a cylindrical caterpillar-like structure of "30S" in solution, consisting of a 20S proteasome component with proteolytic function and multiple other components, which possibly have regulatory roles.
