Reproducibility and comparison of cardiac output measurement by transthoracic bioimpedance and thermodilution methods in critically ill patients.	The short-term reproducibility in cardiac output (CO) and stroke volume (SV) measurements by transthoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) and thermodilution (TH) and their agreement were studied in 31 consecutive patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).  For comparison of changes in CO and SV, six patients were studied separately.  TEB data were not obtainable in four patients due to interference with impedance signals or heart rate detection.  Both methods were reproducible.  For TEB, the mean difference of duplicate measurements was 0.03 (SD 0.3) l/min for CO and 0.3 (SD 3.2) ml for SV. For TH, it was -0.04 (SD 0.5) l/min for CO and 0.6 (SD 6.6) ml for SV.  The coefficient of reproducibility for CO was thus 0.6 l/min for TEB and 1.0 l/min for TH and that for SV was 6.4 ml for TEB and 13.2 ml for TH. There was no agreement in absolute CO or SV between the methods; TEB giving lower absolute readings.  The mean difference (TH-TEB) was 1.4 (SD 1.4) l/min for CO and 14 (SD 13.4) ml for SV.  There was, however, good correlation between the two methods.  For CO, the regression equation was TEB=0.623+0.739 (TH); (p less than 0.0005, r=0.87).  For SV, the regression equation was TEB=-0.23+0.823 (TH); (p less than 0.0005, r=0.86).  When only changes were considered, the mean difference (TH-TEB) was -0.5 (SD 0.9) l/min for CO and -4 (SD 8) ml for SV.  There was significant correlation in the changes detected by each method.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influence of lower limb pneumatic compression on pulmonary artery temperature: effect on cardiac output measurements.	To characterize the decreases in pulmonary artery temperature that coincide with the inflation cycle of pneumatic calf compression stockings and to examine their effects on the thermodilution measurement of cardiac output.
Aortic valve area: measurement by transesophageal echocardiography and prediction by left ventricular outflow tract area.	We compared three techniques of aortic valve area (AVA) measurement using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and determined if AVA can be predicted from simple patient or echocardiographic measurements. AVA was simultaneously measured with direct planimetry, the continuity equation and with a novel technique combining stroke volume using thermodilution and continuous wave Doppler. Using planimetry as the reference in patients with normal valves, left ventricular outflow tract area (LVOTA), lean body mass (LBM), body surface area (BSA) and height were assessed as predictors of AVA. All three methods of AVA measurement showed close agreement and can be used interchangeably. Both LVOTA and LBM were predictors of AVA, but LVOTA was better. BSA and height were not acceptable as predictors of AVA. TEE can be used to measure AVA either with planimetry, the continuity equation, or in combination with thermodilution. LVOTA was the best predictor of AVA.
Comparison of bioimpedance versus thermodilution cardiac output during cardiac surgery: evaluation of a second-generation bioimpedance device.	To compare a second-generation thoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) hemodynamic monitoring system with the clinically used pulmonary artery catheter thermodilution (TD-PAC) system.
Assessment of intrathoracic blood volume as an indicator of cardiac preload: single transpulmonary thermodilution technique versus assessment of pressure preload parameters derived from a pulmonary artery catheter.	To analyze the clinical value of a new device (PiCCO) for cardiac output measurement and volume preload parameter assessment, based on transpulmonary thermodilution technique, as an alternative to the pulmonary artery thermodilution technique and assessment of pressure preload parameters derived from the pulmonary artery catheter.
New thermo-couple copper constantan catheter for measuring regional coronary blood flow and evaluating metabolism.	A new thermodilution catheter with a thermo-couple copper constantan and latex balloon in the tip has recently been developed. This device has two orifices. The left anterior descending (LAD) and/or left circumflex (LCX) flows were measured using a Doppler flow wire. The correlation between the LAD and GCV flow as well as between the LCX and CS-GCV flow were studied in closed chest animals. The flow distributions were evaluated by colored microspheres that were infused into the LAD and LCX. The regional lactate extraction ratio was measured by GCV and/or CS blood sampling performed either with or without balloon inflation before and during pacing in either LAD or LCX occluded animals. The correlations between the LAD and GCV flow, as well as between the LCX and CS-GCV flow were significant (r=0.96, r=0.93, n=30, p<0.001). The flow distribution by color microspheres in the GCV was 75+/-10% for the LAD, whereas in CS it was 70+/-12% for the LCX. By pacing, the lactate extraction ratio of the drained blood from the ischemic myocardium was +10+/-3% in the GCV blood, whereas it was -10+/-4% (p<0.01) in the CS blood. Thus, this new thermodilution catheter with a balloon was found to be useful for measuring regional coronary hemodynamics and also for evaluating the regional myocardial metabolism.
Noninvasive cardiac output by partial CO2 rebreathing after severe chest trauma.	In multiple trauma patients, early continuous cardiac output (CCO) monitoring is frequently desired but is difficult to routinely employ in most emergency departments because it requires invasive procedures. Recently, a noninvasive cardiac output (NICO) technique based on the Fick principle and partial CO2 rebreathing has shown promise under a variety of conditions. Since this method has not been tested after lung damage, we evaluated its utility in a clinically relevant model.
Impedance cardiography: the next vital sign technology?	To evaluate the following: (1) the intramethod variability of impedance cardiography (ICG) cardiac output (CO) measurements via the latest generation monitor and thermodilution CO measurements (CO-TDs); (2) the intermethod comparison of ICG CO and CO-TD; and (3) comparisons of the intergeneration ICG CO equation to CO-TD, using the latest ICG CO equation, the ZMARC (CO-ICG), and the predecessor equations for measuring the ICG CO of Kubicek (CO-K), Sramek (CO-S), and Sramek-Bernstein (CO-SB).
Three-dimensional echocardiographic determination of cardiac output at rest and under dobutamine stress: comparison with thermodilution measurements in the ischemic pig model.	Determination of cardiac output is a potentially important clinical application of three-dimensional (3-D) echocardiography since it could replace invasive measurements with the Swan-Ganz-catheter. To date, there are no studies available to determine whether cardiac output measured by thermodilution can be predicted reliably under changing hemodynamic conditions. Fifteen pigs with ischemic myocardium were examined under four hemodynamic conditions at rest and under pharmacological stress with 5, 10, and 20 microg/kg/min dobutamine. The 3-D datasets were recorded by means of transesophageal echocardiography. The endocardial definition was enhanced by administering the contrast agent FS069 (Optison). Cardiac output was calculated as the product of stroke volume (end-diastolic - end-systolic volume) and heart rate. The invasive measurements were performed with a continuous thermodilution system. In general, there was moderate correlation between 3-D echocardiography and thermodilution(r = 0.72, P < 0.001). At rest, the 3-D echocardiographic measurements were slightly but significantly lower than the invasive measurements (mean difference 0.6 +/- 0.5L/min,P < 0.001). Under stress with 5, 10, and 20 microg/kg/min dobutamine, there was a marked increase in the deviation (1.3 +/- 0.5L/min,P < 0.001; 1.6 +/- 0.7 L/min,P < 0.001; and 2.1 +/- 1.1L/min,P < 0.001, respectively). The deviation was based on two factors: (1). Under stress, the decreasing number of frames per cardiac cycle acquired with 3-D echocardiography led to imprecise recording of end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, and thus to an underestimation of cardiac output. At least 30 frames per cardiac cycle are needed to eliminate this effect. (2). There is a systematic difference between 3-D echocardiographic and invasive measurements, which is independent of the imaging rate. This is based on an overestimation of the true values by thermodilution. In conclusion, cardiac output can be determined correctly by 3-D echocardiography for normal heart rates at rest. At elevated heart rates, the temporal resolution of 3-D systems currently available is not adequate for reliable determination. In performing and evaluating future clinical comparative studies, the systematic difference between 3-D echocardiography and thermodilution, based on overestimation by thermodilution, must be taken into account.
Accurate, noninvasive continuous monitoring of cardiac output by whole-body electrical bioimpedance.	Cardiac output (CO) is measured but sparingly due to limitations in its measurement technique (ie, right-heart catheterization). Yet, in recent years it has been suggested that CO may be of value in the diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment titration of cardiac patients, especially those with congestive heart failure (CHF). We examine the use of a new noninvasive, continuous whole-body bioimpedance system (NICaS; NI Medical; Hod-Hasharon, Israel) for measuring CO. The aim of the present study was to test the validity of this noninvasive cardiac output system/monitor (NICO) in a cohort of cardiac patients.
The validity of cardiac output measurement by thoracic impedance: a meta-analysis.	A structured review of existing literature was undertaken to provide an objective evaluation of the validity of cardiac output measurement by thoracic impedance. Relevant studies were obtained from journals, advertising literature, and N.A.S.A. contract publications, using MEDLINE retrieval and references from other studies. Studies describing concurrent measurement of impedance cardiac output with other techniques were selected if they met certain technical and methodological criteria known to improve the validity of impedance cardiac output measurement. All studies provided Pearson's correlation coefficient as a measure of association. A weighted mean coefficient was calculated for selected studies using Fisher's Z transformation of the data. Correlation of impedance with thermodilution gave r = 0.82; with dye dilution, r = 0.83; with Fick technique, r = 0.80; and with radionuclear angiography, r = 0.65. Studies done on ICU patients showed a lower correlation than studies done on non-ICU patients (p = 0.003). A moderately good correlation exists between impedance cardiac output measurement and other techniques, although correlation is not so good when ICU patients are studied. Better techniques and methodology may improve this correlation.
An evaluation of a noninvasive cardiac output measurement using partial carbon dioxide rebreathing in children.	Cardiac output (CO) is an important hemodynamic measure that helps to guide the therapy of critically ill patients. Invasive CO assessment in infants and children is often avoided because of the inherent risks. A noninvasive CO monitor that uses partial rebreathing has been recently developed to determine CO via the Fick principle for carbon dioxide. There have been no clinical studies confirming its accuracy in pediatric patients. This is a prospective observational study of 37 children <12 yr of age who underwent cardiac catheterization. Under general anesthesia via an endotracheal tube without a leak, we made multiple CO measurements using thermodilution and compared them with noninvasively determined CO measurements. Paired measurements were analyzed for bias, precision, and correlation via Bland-Altman plot and linear regression. Noninvasive measurements showed a linear correlation with thermodilution CO assessment with an r value of 0.83 (P < 0.03). Bland-Altman analysis yielded a bias of -0.27 L/min and a precision +/-1.49 L/min. Cardiac index measurements demonstrated a decreased r value of 0.67 (P = 0.15) and a bias of -0.18 L . min(-1) . m(-2) and precision of +/-2.13 L . min(-1) . m(-2). Differences between partial rebreathing measurements and thermodilution measurements were largest in children with a body surface area of </=0.6 m(2) ventilated with tidal volumes <300 mL. Based on these findings, noninvasive CO measurement using partial rebreathing may be clinically acceptable in children with >0.6 m(2) body surface area and >300 mL tidal volume.
A novel approach to measure cardiac output noninvasively: a comparison with the thermodilution method on critical care patients.	To compare the accuracy and reliability of cardiac output (CO) measurement by a Noninvasive Hemodynamic Analyzer (NHA) to the thermodilution cardiac output (COTD) technique in ICU patients of cardiac condition.
Equivalence of the bioimpedance and thermodilution methods in measuring cardiac output in hospitalized patients with advanced, decompensated chronic heart failure.	An accurate and reliable noninvasive method for determining cardiac output/cardiac index would be valuable for patients with acutely decompensated advanced systolic heart failure.
Usefulness of real-time three-dimensional echocardiography for reliable measurement of cardiac output in patients with ischemic or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.	The determination of stroke volume (SV) is a potentially important application of real-time 3-dimensional echocardiography (RT3DE). SV measurements by thermodilution were compared with values obtained using transthoracic RT3DE in a sequential cohort of patients who underwent assessment for potential cardiac transplantation. There was a strong correlation between echocardiographically derived SV and catheterization data (r = 0.95, n = 14). On average, RT3DE appeared to underestimate SV by 7.5 ml (SD = 5.8) or 17% (SD = 12%). A role for RT3DE in the measurement of SV in severe heart failure is suggested.
Pressure-derived measurement of coronary flow reserve.	We aimed to validate the technique of measuring the coronary flow reserve (CFR) with coronary pressure measurements against an established thermodilution technique.
Echocardiographic volumetry of the right ventricle.	The aim of our study was to define the optimal geometric model for two-dimensional volumetry of the right ventricle and its clinical validation.
Computerised system for the continuous measurement of azygos venous blood flow.	A computer assisted apparatus for the continuous measurement of azygos blood flow is described. The system was validated in vitro and changes in flow which occur with respiration and Valsalva manoeuvre are illustrated. This apparatus allows real time inspection of flow values which enables changes in flow over short periods to be readily studied.
Right ventricular dysfunction in septic patients.	To compare right ventricular ejection fraction in trauma and septic patients during the hyperdynamic circulatory phase of these states.
Testing the reliability of a new ultrasonic cardiac output monitor, the USCOM, by using aortic flowprobes in anesthetized dogs.	We have used an animal model to test the reliability of a new portable continuous-wave Doppler ultrasonic cardiac output monitor, the USCOM. In six anesthetized dogs, cardiac output was measured with a high-precision transit time ultrasonic flowprobe placed on the ascending aorta. The dogs' cardiac output was increased with a dopamine infusion (0-15 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)). Simultaneous flowprobe and USCOM cardiac output measurements were made. Up to 64 pairs of readings were collected from each dog. Data were compared by using the Bland and Altman plot method and Lin's concordance correlation coefficient. A total of 319 sets of paired readings were collected. The mean (+/-sd) cardiac output was 2.62 +/- 1.04 L/min, and readings ranged from 0.79 to 5.73 L/min. The mean bias between the 2 sets of readings was -0.0l L/min, with limits of agreement (95% confidence intervals) of -0.34 to 0.31 L/min. This represents a +/-13% error. In five of six dogs, there was a high degree of concordance, or agreement, between the 2 methods, with coefficients >0.9. The USCOM provided reliable measurements of cardiac output over a wide range of values. Clinical trials are needed to validate the device in humans.
Regional coronary flow in ml/min measured with conventional coronarography]	We have developed a new method of measuring absolute coronary blood flow (CBF) in all major branches of the coronary circulation using computer analysis of conventional cineangiograms. A coronary cineangiogram is obtained in any biplane projections at 50 fps and digitized into a 512 x 512 x 8 matrix. The artery is reconstructed in 3D using the x-ray projection matrices calculated from a cube filmed in the same projections. All diameters along the artery are automatically determined. The arterial volume is calculated from the 3D reconstructed true arterial length and diameters. The absolute flow is obtained by dividing the arterial volume filled by contrast medium during the first cardiac cycle following the injection by the duration of that cycle. The method was validated in vivo by comparing LAD flow measured by angiography with great cardiac vein flow simultaneously measured by thermodilution. Ten patients were studied at baseline and during pacing-induced hyperemia at 100 and 120/min. Mean flow was 52.1 ml/min (range 28-93) by angiography and 51.5 ml/min (range 11-115; NS) by thermodilution. The two methods correlated well: r = 0.82, SE = 9.8 ml/min, n = 27, p less than 0.0001. Thus, absolute CBF can be measured by computer analysis of conventional biplane coronary cineangiograms.
Validity of cardiac output measurement by computer-averaged impedance cardiography, and comparison with simultaneous thermodilution determinations.	The accuracy and reproducibility of noninvasive cardiac output determinations by computer-averaged impedance cardiography were compared with those of simultaneously performed thermodilution cardiac output. In all, 43 patients (14 men and 29 women = 201 pairs) were studied by simultaneously performed impedance and thermal determinations. Individual impedance values correlated with paired thermodilution determinations (r = 0.75; p less than 0.0001). Each patient's average thermodilution values correlated with the average impedance values (r = 0.86; p less than 0.0001). Mean thermodilution output was 4.6 +/- 1.37 liters/min. Mean impedance output was 4.5 +/- 1.27 liter/min Reproducibility was comparable for impedance (0.0059 +/- 0.639) and thermodilution cardiac output (0.023 +/- 0.556). There was high agreement between methods by plot of the difference against mean of the 2 methods. Impedance cardiac output values agree and correlate highly with quality-controlled thermodilution outputs across a wide range of clinical conditions and hemodynamic values.
Continuous Fick cardiac output measurement during inhalation anesthesia]	A computer based system that continuously monitors cardiac output (CO) and the other hemodynamic variables has been developed. Fick CO was calculated every 10 sec on breath by breath basis. The arterio-venous oxygen content difference was measured by a combination of a pulse oximeter and a fiberoptic oximeter. Oxygen consumption was calculated by a direct measurement of respiratory gas exchange: airway flow was obtained from a Servo 900C ventilator and the instantaneous oxygen concentration was measured with a paramagnetic oxygen sensor. This system enabled us to use inhalation anesthetics which were avoided during Fick CO measurement with a zirconium oxygen sensor. Fick CO was compared to electromagnetic CO (EMCO) in 5 dogs anesthetized with enflurane. A total of 198 simultaneous data of CO measurements had a range from 0.5 to 2 l/min. Simultaneous measurements of Fick CO and EMCO showed a good correlation (r = 0.97), and a regression equation was: Y = X + 0.029. Fick CO was compared with cardiac output measured by a conventional thermodilution method (TDCO) in 12 patients anesthetized with either enflurane or isoflurane. A total of 207 simultaneous CO measurements ranged from 3 to 10.2 l/min. Regression analysis of 207 paired Fick CO and TDCO values showed a good correlation (r = 0.94), and a regression equation (Fick CO = TDCO-0.28). The "limits of agreement" (mean difference +/- 2 SD of bias) were within +/- 1.12 l/min, which could be acceptable for clinical settings. When hemodynamic states were abruptly changed by an intravenous administration of isoproterenol, Fick CO reached 90% of EMCO change within 30 sec. The author concludes that this system provides virtually continuous hemodynamic analyses and facilitates more sophisticated circulatory control of the patients within a limited fluctuation.
Comparison between two on-line reversed line position hemodialysis vascular access flow measurement techniques: saline dilution and thermodilution.	Periodical access flow measurements can predict the development and presence of vascular access flow-limiting stenosis and subsequent thrombosis. Access flow measurement has become a standard in vascular access care. Different techniques to measure access flow are available. The aim of this study was to compare an integrated access flow measurement device, based on thermodilution (Blood Temperature Monitor, BTM, Fresenius Medical Care, Bad Homburg, Germany), with the gold standard, the HD01 (Transonic Systems Inc., Ithaca, NY), whose technique is based on saline dilution. In 40 patients with end-stage renal disease, 40 vascular accesses were studied to determine the correlation between access flow measurements by both techniques. Reproducibility of access flow measurements by both techniques was assessed in 20 patients on a weekly interval.A total of 40 measurement series were performed. Average access flow measured with the saline technique and the thermodilution technique was 1053 (+/-495) ml/min and 1034 (+/-527) ml/min, respectively (p = ns) (n = 40). Correlation between access flow measurements by both techniques expressed in R was 0.79 (r = 0.89). Reproducibility of saline and thermodilution subsequent measurements with a weekly interval, expressed in relative difference (Delta xrel) was 13 (+/-11)% and 24 (+/-14)%, respectively (p < 0.01) (n = 20).BTM access flow measurements correlated well with the HD01 access flow measurements. However, the better reproducibility of HD01 and shorter measurement time compared with BTM access flow measurements should be considered when implementing access flow measurement to prevent vascular access failure.
Determining lung water volume in stable hemodialysis patients.	Lung water (LW) reflects the water content of the lung interstitium. Because hemodialysis patients have expanded total body water (TBW) they may also have increased LW. Hypertonic saline promotes a flux of water from lung to blood, which is measured by ultrasound flow probes on hemodialysis tubing. The volume of flux is an indirect measure of LW. Our purpose was to determine the feasibility and reproducibility of LW derived with ultrasound velocity dilution, to determine the effect of ultrafiltration on LW in stable hemodialysis patients, and to compare changes in LW with fluid compartment shifts using bioimpedance. Lung water, cardiac output, total body water, and extracellular and intracellular fluid volumes were measured in 24 stable hemodialysis patients at the beginning of hemodialysis and after ultrafiltration. The LW values at the beginning of hemodialysis (298.8 +/- 90.2 ml or 3.67 +/- 1.47 ml/kg) fell during hemodialysis (250.8 +/- 55.8 ml or 3.12 +/- 0.96 ml/kg; p < 0.05), as did TBW and extracellular fluid volumes (p < 0.001). Cardiac output, cardiac index, and central blood volume also decreased significantly with ultrafiltration (p < 0.005, p < 0.005, and p < 0.01, respectively). Results showed that stable hemodialysis patients have higher specific LW values (3.67 ml/kg) than the normal population (2 ml/kg) and ultrafiltration produces a significant decline in LW values.
Microcirculatory flow changes after initial resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock with 7.5% hypertonic saline/6% dextran 70.	In rabbits, laser Doppler flow probes were placed in the jejunum and on the renal cortex. Pulsed Doppler probes were implanted on the abdominal aorta and superior mesenteric and femoral arteries for measuring blood flow velocity. Cardiac output was measured by thermal dilution. Either 30% or 40% of the calculated blood volume was withdrawn through a carotid catheter. After 30 or 60 minutes, an initial bolus of either lactated Ringer's (LR, 16 ml/kg) or 7.5% hypertonic saline/6% dextran 70 (HSD; 4 ml/kg) IV was followed by unlimited IV LR (administered as rapidly as possible) to restore systemic arterial blood pressure to the prehemorrhage levels. With HSD, arterial pressure corrected more rapidly (p less than 0.05), and the initial hemodilution was greater (p less than 0.05), but there were no differences by two hours. With HSD, cardiac output (90%-100% vs. 130%-160% of control; p less than 0.05), plasma Na+ (139-140 mM vs. 146-148 mM; p less than 0.05) and plasma osmolarity (292-295 mOsm vs. 308-310 mOsm; p less than 0.05) were all significantly higher than the values with LR, but there was no effect on blood flow velocities through the infrarenal aorta, femoral artery, or superior mesenteric artery. Renal cortical perfusion (56% vs. 97% of control; p less than 0.05) and jejunal mucosal perfusion (83% vs. 162% of control; p less than 0.05) were significantly higher with HSD. HSD had no detectable effect on bacterial translocation at 24 hours. Thus: 1) HSD restores blood flow more rapidly to the gut mucosal and kidney microcirculations than initial resuscitation with LR; 2) the mechanism could be associated with a transient hemodilution and persistent increases in plasma Na and osmolarity, which reduce hemorrhage-induced cell swelling and blood viscosity changes; and 3) laser Doppler analysis could aid in the diagnosis of reperfusion injury after shock.
Cardiac index monitoring by pulse contour analysis and thermodilution after pediatric cardiac surgery.	To validate a new device (PiCCO system; Pulsion Medical Systems, Munich, Germany), we compared cardiac index derived from transpulmonary thermodilution and from pulse contour analysis in pediatric patients after surgery for congenital heart disease. We performed a prospective clinical study in a pediatric cardiac intensive care unit of a university hospital.
Effect of lower limb compression devices on thermodilution cardiac output measurement.	The aim of this study was to determine whether lower limb (calf) sequential compression devices (SCDs) have a significant effect on thermodilution cardiac output measurements using a pulmonary artery catheter.
A new method of non-invasive determination of the cardiac minute volume in ventilated patients]	A method for the determination of stroke volume and cardiac output from pulse-synchronized variations of pressure in mechanically ventilated patients is described. A comparison with 20 readings obtained by thermodilution showed good correlation (r = 0.9866).
Validation of pulse contour derived stroke volume variation during modifications of cardiac afterload.	Left ventricular stroke volume variation (SVV) or its surrogates are useful tools to assess fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients. So far it is unknown, how changes in cardiac afterload affect SVV. Therefore, this study compared left ventricular SVV derived by pulse contour analysis with SVV measured using an ultrasonic flow probe and investigated the influence of cardiac afterload on left ventricular SVV.
What technique should I use to measure cardiac output?	Several less invasive cardiac output monitoring techniques are now commercially available and have the potential to replace the pulmonary artery catheter under certain clinical circumstances. The aim of this review is to give a synopsis of the currently available cardiac output measurement methods. This information should help in selecting the appropriate technique in a particular clinical setting.
Upward shift of the lower range of coronary flow autoregulation in hypertensive patients with hypertrophy of the left ventricle.	At any given perfusion pressure, coronary reserve is expressed by the difference between autoregulated and maximally vasodilated flow. In hypertension the raised coronary resistance reduces the steepness of the pressure-flow relationship at maximal vasodilatation. In the presence of cardiac hypertrophy the line of autoregulated flow becomes higher. For these reasons coronary reserve is reduced and the point at which baseline flow approaches the maximal achievable flow might be shifted to a higher perfusion pressure. Thus, any reduction below this elevated and critical value of pressure would lower the coronary flow.
Non-invasive cardiac output measurement using a fast mixing box to measure carbon dioxide elimination.	This study investigated the accuracy of a new technique for measuring cardiac output using the derivative Fick principle based on the ratio of change in the partial pressures of end-tidal and mixed expired carbon dioxide produced by short periods of partial rebreathing. A prospective clinical study involving 24 patients following cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary artery bypass grafting or valvular surgery was undertaken in the intensive care unit of a university-affiliated hospital. Haemodynamic measurements were performed after admission to the intensive care unit. Cardiac output was measured simultaneously by bolus pulmonary artery thermodilution and by a non-invasive carbon dioxide partial rebreathing technique. Cardiac output measurement using the new technique demonstrated a significant but consistent underestimate, with a bias of -0.60 +/- 0.87 l/min. This new adaptation of the partial rebreathing technique is reliable in measuring cardiac output in postoperative patients. Reasons for the consistent discrepancy between thermodilution and partial rebreathing techniques are discussed.
Arterial pulse cardiac output agreement with thermodilution in patients in hyperdynamic conditions.	This study aimed to compare continuous cardiac output (CCO) obtained using the arterial pulse wave (APCO) measurement with a simultaneous measurement of the intermittent cardiac output (ICO) and CCO obtained with a pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) in liver transplant patients.
The effects of vasodilation on cardiac output measured by PiCCO.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of vasodilation on cardiac output (CO) measured by pulse contour method using PiCCO (Pulsion Medical Systems AG, Munich, Germany) in comparison with CO by the thermodilution method.
Continual trending of Fick variables in the critically ill patient.	We continually monitored components of the Fick equation (oxygen consumption, arterial and mixed venous oxygen saturation) simultaneously in ten hemodynamically stable, mechanically ventilated postoperative patients in order to evaluate our ability to continually calculate cardiac output (Qc) from its Fick determinants. Qc underestimated (p less than 0.001) cardiac output calculated from intermittent CO-oximeter measurements (6.2 vs 6.4 L/min) with good correlation (r = .96), while it consistently overestimated (p less than 0.05) thermodilution cardiac output (Qtd) (6.2 vs 5.9 L/min, r = .84). Measured oxygen consumption correlated with Qtd (r = .78) nearly as well as did Qc, while mixed venous oxygen saturation correlated poorly with Qtd (r = -.10). Trends of multiple Fick variables were helpful in interpreting changes in a single parameter. We conclude that continual trending of Fick variables in critically ill patients is both feasible and useful and that Qc agrees well with both traditional Fick cardiac output computed from CO-oximetry data and thermodilution measurements. Finally, measured oxygen consumption, available continuously, correlates well with changes in cardiac output in this subset of critically-ill patients.
Validation of the thermodilution technique for the estimation of the cardiac output in the unsedated calf.	The purpose of this study was to establish a standardized protocol in order to obtain accurate and reproducible cardiac output (CO) measurements by the thermodilution technique in the unsedated calf. In 5 healthy calves, the effect of various temperatures, volumes, rates, means and sites of injection of the thermal indicator were tested for their effect on accuracy and reproducibility of CO measurement by the thermodilution technique, the Fick method being used as the standard technique. Five milliliters of an iced 5% dextrose solution per 100 kg body weight constituted the correct amount of thermal indicator. Manual injection of the indicator bolus and/or injection of this bolus through the proximal lumen of a thermodilution Swan-Ganz catheter gave poor results of CO measurements by the thermodilution technique. On the other hand, results of CO measurements were highly reliable when the bolus injection was performed by an ECG-synchronized injection pump and/or through a right atrial catheter with a larger diameter and a shorter length than the classical Swan-Ganz catheter. It was concluded that an iced 5% solution of dextrose (5 ml/100 kg body weight) injected through a right atrial catheter by an ECG-synchronized pump gives the most accurate and reproducible CO measurements by the thermodilution technique in unsedated calves.
Transesophageal Doppler cardiac output monitoring: performance during aortic reconstructive surgery.	Transesophageal Doppler (TED) monitoring provides continuous, noninvasive monitoring of cardiac output by measurement of aortic flow velocities. Because of the effects on aortic flow dynamics resulting from atherosclerosis, aortic cross-clamping, and wide variations in arterial blood pressure, the validity of TED monitoring during aortic surgery is unresolved. The authors prospectively evaluated a second-generation TED cardiac output monitor in 42 patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery. Four hundred eighty-nine simultaneous measurements of TED and thermodilution cardiac output were obtained. Transesophageal Doppler measurements were highly correlated to thermodilution measurements (R = 0.94); however, Bland-Altman analysis revealed a moderate error in the TED measurements (2 SD of the bias = 1.4 L/min). Trending analysis showed that TED monitoring accurately tracked changes in thermodilution cardiac output. Placement of an aortic cross-clamp resulted in significant reductions in the accuracy of Doppler measurements. Arterial blood pressure variations did not systematically affect the accuracy of the transesophageal technique. Limitations of TED monitoring, including a difficult calibration procedure, poor performance during aortic cross-clamping, and the need for probe repositioning, suggest further development is warranted.
Beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of M-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval.	The effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men (aged 20 to 64 years) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation (AR), all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram. Thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined, and aortic, left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded. Once baseline recordings were completed, the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min (70, 80, 90...) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min. The optimal pacing interval, obtained from hemodynamic data, was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index. This was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the R wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the M-mode echocardiogram. Such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow. Atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min (mean: 120 +/- 8). At the optimal rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 +/- 7 to 23 +/- 12 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 +/- 0.46 to 2.63 +/- 0.49 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.01). The mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 +/- 21 ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of different doses of mexamine on systemic hemodynamics]	The method of thermodilution was used to study the influence of mexamine on the systemic haemodynamics in rats. The radioprotective and cardiovascular effects of the agent within the dose range (2-11 mg/kg) under study were shown to be relatively independent.
Pulse contour analysis to assess hemodynamic response to passive leg raising.	The authors evaluated the ability of 2 pulse contour cardiac output (CO) techniques to track CO changes during passive leg raising (PLR) to assess fluid loading responsiveness.
Cardiac filling volumes versus pressures for predicting fluid responsiveness after cardiovascular surgery: the role of systolic cardiac function.	Static cardiac filling volumes have been suggested to better predict fluid responsiveness than filling pressures, but this may not apply to hearts with systolic dysfunction and dilatation. We evaluated the relative value of cardiac filling volume and pressures for predicting and monitoring fluid responsiveness, according to systolic cardiac function, estimated by global ejection fraction (GEF, normal 25 to 35%) from transpulmonary thermodilution.
Hemodynamic correction in children with severe traumatic injuries by the means of transpulmonary hemodilution]	The purpose of the research is t objectify the indications for use of catecholamines and/or change of the infusion therapy volume based on transpulmonary thermodilution in children with severe traumatic injuries. The examined group consisted of 22 children with thermal concomitant or isolated trauma and drowning. All the patents were transferred to the Intensive Care Unit from other hospitals. Hemodynamic parameter estimation was based upon transpulmonary thermodilution. Results indicate, that based upon dynamic assessment of cardiac output, preload (global end diastolic volume index) and postload (systemic vascular resistance index) it is possible to carry out an early targeted correction of the fluid therapy and chose the right type of inotorpic support. Transpulmonary thermodilution in children with severe traumatic injuries allows achieving optimal parameters of blood circulation just 24 hours after its adaption.
Blood flow measurements during hemodialysis vascular access interventions--catheter-based thermodilution or Doppler ultrasound?	To test the clinical performance of catheter-based thermodilution and Doppler ultrasound of the feeding brachial artery for blood flow measurements during hemodialysis vascular access interventions.
Mechanical ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure in critically ill patients: comparison of CW-Doppler ultrasound cardiac output monitoring (USCOM) and thermodilution (PiCCO).	Aggressive mechanical ventilation can markedly and unpredictably affect cardiac function. The fall in cardiac output (CO) is due to a reduction in left ventricular stroke volume (SV). The aim of the present pilot study was to assess the effects of different positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) levels on circulatory function and to compare them with continuous wave (CW)-Doppler ultrasound cardiac output monitoring (USCOM) and a thermodilution-based haemodynamic monitoring system (PiCCO).
Comparison of invasive and noninvasive assessment of aortic stenosis severity in the elderly.	Aortic valve area (AVA) in aortic stenosis (AS) can be assessed noninvasively or invasively, typically with similar results. These techniques have not been validated in elderly patients, where common assumptions make them most prone to error. Accurate assessment of AVA is crucial to determine which patients are appropriate candidates for aortic valve replacement.
Prediction of pulmonary edema by plasma protein levels in patients with sepsis.	The difficulties of fluid therapy in patients with septic shock are to maintain sufficient vascular volume while preventing pulmonary edema formation. Thus, it is important to find a biomarker that can reliably predict pulmonary edema formation after fluid loading. We evaluated the association of plasma protein levels with the increase in extravascular lung water index (ΔEVLWI) after fluid loading.
Cardiac index assessment using bioreactance in patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery in ovarian carcinoma.	This clinical study compared the cardiac index (CI) assessed by the totally non-invasive method of bioreactance (CIBR) (NICOM™, Cheetah Medical, Vancouver, USA) to transpulmonary thermodilution (CITD) during cytoreductive surgery in ovarian carcinoma. The hypothesis was that CI could be assessed by bioreactance in an accurate and precise manner including accurate trending ability when compared to transpulmonary thermodilution. In 15 patients CIBR and CITD were assessed after induction of anesthesia, after opening of the peritoneum, hourly during the operative procedure, and 30 min after extubation. Trending ability was assessed between the described timepoints. In total 84 points of measurement were analyzed. Concordance correlation coefficient for repeated measures correlating the CIBR and CITD was 0.32. Bias was 0.26 l/min/m(2) (limits of agreement -1.39 and 1.92 l/min/m(2)). The percentage error was 50.7 %. Trending ability quantified by the mean of angles θ which are made by the ΔCI vector and the line of identity (y = x) showed a value for CIBR of θ = 23.4°. CI assessment by bioreactance showed acceptable accuracy and trending ability. However, its precision was poor. Therefore, CI measurement can not be solely based on bioreactance in patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery in ovarian carcinoma. 
Assessment of global tissue perfusion and oxygenation in neonates and infants after open-heart surgery.	Monitoring and preserving adequate perfusion and oxygen balance is a primary objective of critical care. This prospective observational study aimed to assess the relationship between global haemodynamic parameters and variables reflecting tissue oxygenation during the early period following corrective cardiac surgery in neonates and infants. The postoperative time course of oxygen delivery and consumption was evaluated. As surrogate markers of oxygen balance, the central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) and venoarterial PCO2 difference (PvaCO2) were thoroughly investigated.
Analysis of CSF flow through L-P shunt during changes in posture]	Two methods for percutaneous study of lumboperitoneal shunt patency are described. The first is an LP shuntography in which patency of the shunt can be assessed by the intraperitoneal spread of contrast medium injected intrathecally via the lumbar route. This method was performed in 27 hydrocephalic patients. The other is a thermosensitive determination technique, in which patency of the shunt can be assessed by definite temperature changes. In a patient with an LP shunt, flow of CSF, and hence patency of the shunt, are indicated by a downward deflection of the recording trace. Twenty-three trials of the thermosensitive determination of CSF shunt patency in LP shunts of 19 hydrocephalic cases were performed. We got five different types of recording traces by the thermosensitive method. A flat-line recording (two recordings) and an upward deflection (two recordings) showed complete occlusion. Operative findings and LP shuntography showed that four cases with a nearly flat line recording had a partial occlusion of the shunt. Patency of the shunt was confirmed by LP shuntography in all cases (12 recordings) with a gradual downward deflection. A steep downward deflection showed an acute excessive CSF drainage. An experimental study was carried out to perform a quantitative analysis of CSF flow in an LP shunt. Derived data suggested that the flow velocity was 10 ml/hr in a case with a nearly flat-line recording, 30 ml/hr in a case with a gradual downward deflection and 60 ml/hr in a case with a steep downward deflection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of acute angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on renal blood flow in patients with stable congestive heart failure.	Renal blood flow was serially measured as the left renal vein blood flow using the continuous thermodilution technique during acute angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in 20 patients with stable congestive heart failure. Eleven patients received captopril orally, and the remaining nine patients received enalaprilat intravenously. During the control period, left renal vein blood flow and cardiac output did not correlate closely (r = 0.57). Following administration of captopril or enalaprilat, stroke volume index increased from 20 +/- 7 to 25 +/- 8 ml/M2 (p less than 0.001), while pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased from 26 +/- 8 to 19 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Left renal vein blood flow increased in all patients despite a consistent reduction in systemic arterial pressure. At peak effect, left renal vein blood flow increased from 295 +/- 86 to 443 +/- 122 ml/min (p less than 0.001), while mean systemic arterial pressure fell from 81 +/- 13 to 71 +/- 14 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Thus, in patients with stable congestive heart failure, acute angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition, although decreasing substantially systemic arterial pressure, consistently enhances renal blood flow.
Right ventricular contractility is preserved in patients with cystic fibrosis and pulmonary artery hypertension.	A combined hemodynamic and radionuclide approach was used to evaluate right ventricular contractility in 16 adolescent and adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Nine patients had normal resting pulmonary artery pressure, and seven had resting pulmonary artery hypertension (PH). Right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) was observed by radionuclide angiocardiography, and stroke volume index (SVI) by thermodilution techniques. By combination of these measures right ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes were derived. RVEF was normal in CF patients without PH (58.9 +/- 7.2%) but was reduced in those with PH (45.4 +/- 2.3%). There was a strong inverse linear correlation between RVEF and afterload, as assessed by mean pulmonary artery pressure (r = -0.76), indicating RVEF being afterload-dependent. Right ventricular contractility, however, as assessed by right ventricular end-systolic pressure-volume relations was even higher in CF patients with PH, indicating preserved or even increased contractility in the face of an increased afterload stress. The acceleration time, evaluated by pulsed Doppler echocardiography, was normal in CF patients without PH (117.3 +/- 5.5 msec) and significantly reduced in those with PH (85.1 +/- 6.4 msec). Both RVEF and AT were efficient in estimating pulmonary artery pressure in these patients.
Automatic data processing in the cardiac catheterization laboratory.	A review of automatic data processing in the cardiac catherization lab is presented. The emphasis placed on on-line manometry, indicator dilution and off-line quantitative ventriculography. The system organization is described and several specific examples given to illustrate the level of detail necessary to specify such a system. The clinical use of the system is described together with an evaluation of the original design goals in terms of the actual performance of the system. A few unexpected benefits have emerged with respect to quality control and reliability, but one of the original design goals, speeding up the catheterization procedure, has proven to be unrealistic. The next logical steps in the software and hardware evolution are described with the emphasis placed on making the system a more effective tool for the clinician.
Pressure-volume relationships in the pulmonary "venous" system in living dogs.	In this study, we examined the pressure-volume (P-V) relationships of the pulmonary "venous" (P'V') system in anesthetized living dogs, and assessed compliance by fitting the derived data of the P-V relationships to the exponential function. By definition, the P'V' system consists of the pulmonary veins and the left atrium. The pulmonary "venous" volume (P'V'V) was determined with our modified double indicator dilution method using a single injection and double sampling technique. The mean left atrial pressure (PLA) was measured directly. To observe sequential changes over a wide range of the P-V relationships, dogs were studied from the control state through the volume-loaded state with dextran. The P'V'V ranged from 3.4 to 12.2 ml X kg-1 and the PLA from 3.2 to 40.6 mmHg. We fitted the data of the P-V relationships (n = 24) to the exponential function, yielding an equation: P'V'V (ml X kg-1) = 19(1-0.833(e-0.017PLA(mmHg)). We then differentiated an above equation to estimate the slope of this curve (static compliance), giving the equation: dV/dP (ml X mmHg-1 X kg-1) = 0.269(e-0.017PLA(mmHg)). Therefore, at PLA of 10 mmHg (normal level), the compliance is 0.227 ml X mmHg-1 X kg-1. The compliance, obtained with an application of the present results in dogs to man, (disregarding expected species differences), coincides well with that in man determined with our indirect method.
Influence of cardiac output on thermal-dye extravascular lung water (EVLW) in cardiac patients.	The influence of varying cardiac output (CO) on thermal-dye extravascular lung water (EVLW) was investigated in a total of 40 cardiac surgery patients before the onset of the operation. EVLW was measured by means of the double indicator dilution technique with indocyanine green as the non-diffusible indicator and a microprocessed lung water computer 15 min and 30 min after change of CO. CO was varied from -45% to +70% of the baseline value by nifedipine infusion (CO increases, n = 20) or halothane application (CO decreases, n = 20), respectively. CO was measured from the femoral artery instream thermistor tipped lung water catheter and, simultaneously, from the pulmonary artery. In spite of a highly significant decrease (-45%) and increase (+70%) in CO no change in EVLW could be observed. CO estimation was comparable for both methods used. Regression analysis revealed no relationship between CO and EVLW as well as between EVLW and various hemodynamic parameters. We conclude that thermal-dye technique for estimation of EVLW may be accurate in spite of changing cardiac output over a wide range.
Piroximone (MDL 19,205) in the treatment of unstable and stable chronic cardiac failure.	The hemodynamic and clinical response to oral and intravenous piroximone was examined in 25 patients with chronic cardiac failure secondary to ischemic or myopathic heart disease: 14 with severe failure, who were clinically unstable (group I), and 11 with stable failure of mild to moderate severity (group II) in whom maximal O2 uptake (VO2 max) to treadmill exercise could be monitored serially. Intravenous (0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg) and oral (0.7 to 4.9 mg/kg) piroximone significantly (p less than 0.05) improved right and left ventricular pump function in both groups while causing an insignificant rise in heart rate and reduction in arterial pressure. Myocardial O2 uptake was not altered acutely or subacutely after piroximone, and myocardial lactate production was not observed. The salutary hemodynamic response to oral piroximone was sustained for 5 hours and there was no evidence of tolerance to the third and fourth doses. In group II, VO2 max was increased (p less than 0.05) at 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 weeks of oral piroximone therapy. Adverse gastrointestinal effects were observed in two patients and a supraventricular tachycardia in another. Thus, piroximone may prove useful in the long-term management of chronic cardiac failure. Controlled clinical trials should be undertaken to determine the ultimate efficacy and safety of piroximone in these patients.
Validation of beat by beat pulsed Doppler measurements of ascending aortic blood velocity in man.	The volume, velocity, and acceleration of ascending aortic blood were measured in man using a pulsed Doppler ultrasound instrument, with online spectral analysis and offline computer processing of velocity data. This system was firstly validated in a test rig capable of generating pulsatile flow of talc particles in water at physiological velocities and accelerations in a model aorta. Doppler measurements correlated well (r greater than or equal to 0.90) with simultaneous electromagnetic measurements of stroke volume, peak ejection velocity, and maximum acceleration in this rig. In vivo validation was performed firstly by comparing simultaneous Doppler and thermodilution cardiac output (Q) measurements; this yielded the following regression equation: Doppler Q = 0.90 X thermodilution Q + 0.03 litre.min-1, r = 0.92; n = 38. Beat by beat measurements were then validated against simultaneous invasive aortic blood velocity measurements made using a Mills electromagnetic cathetertip probe. When paced single beats of different size were compared within subjects the correlation coefficients between Doppler and electromagnetic measurements averaged 0.89 for stroke volume, 0.91 for peak ejection velocity, and 0.79 for maximum acceleration in five subjects. The absolute values for velocity and acceleration from the Doppler system differed significantly from the absolute values given by the electromagnetic system and this difference was not consistent between subjects. It is concluded that the Doppler system can non-invasively record relative changes in left ventricular ejection in man.
Right ventricular function during positive end-expiratory pressure. Thermodilution evaluation and clinical application.	Right ventricular (RV) function was studied in 13 patients under controlled mechanical ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) for adult respiratory distress syndrome. The assessment of RV function was made by the thermodilution technique. Calculations of RV ejection fraction (RVEF) and RV end-diastolic volume (RVEDV) were performed. In 11 patients, increasing PEEP was accompanied by a progressive decrease in blood pressure (BP), stroke volume (SV), RVEDV, and no change in RVEF. Increasing PEEP further was accompanied by a further decrease in RV preload. The remaining two patients exhibited a decrease in BP, SV, RVEF and an increase in RVEDV. One of these two patients exhibited a large decrease in cardiac output (CO). Thus, measurement of RVEDV (best parameter of ventricular preload) and RVEF are easily performed at the patient's bedside using a special thermodilution technique. This allows selection of the best treatment of PEEP-induced decrease in CO.
The use of invasive techniques, angiography and indicator dilution, for quantification of valvular regurgitations.	Angiographic techniques have been used for the quantification of mitral or aortic and rarely tricuspid regurgitation. Mitral or aortic regurgitant volume per beat and the regurgitation fraction (fao and fm, respectively) are obtained from the angiographic determination of total left ventricular stroke volume (TSV) and forward stroke volume (FSV) estimated by a different technique. Although this procedure is generally accepted as the gold standard for quantification of left heart regurgitations, there are several limitations: In the presence of mitral and aortic regurgitation no separate quantification of fao and fm is feasible; heart rate at the time of determination of FSV (from Fick or dye dilution cardiac output) and of TSV (angio) may be different; there is a tendency to consistently overestimate stroke volume by angio techniques; repeated estimations of TSV by angio are influenced by the circulatory effects of the contrast dye. In contrast indicator dilution techniques, where upstream and downstream sampling allow the simultaneous estimation of forward and regurgitant flow, the accuracy of the determination of FSV is well established and repeated estimations of fao and fm are possible because the indicators do not have cardiovascular effects. These methods are, however, crucially dependent on thorough mixing of the regurgitant volume with the blood in the upstream chamber. In 23 patients with isolated aortic regurgitation there was a positive correlation between fao evaluated by thermodilution and fao determined by the biplane angio-Fick method (r = 0.59). fao by thermodilution averaged 0.40 and fao by angio-Fick 0.46 (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extravascular lung water measurement by double indicator dilution in shock and respiratory failure.	Clinical quantitation of water accumulation in the lungs is imprecise. The technique of measuring extravascular lung water (EVLW) with double indicator dilution utilizing cold indocyanine green dye has become practical with the addition of a microprocessor. The technique, insertion of a special thermistor tipped arterial catheter and potential problems are described. Our studies with resuscitation of 27 patients in shock indicate little increase in EVLW at 24 hours. On the other hand 19 patients with Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) had marked increases in EVLW from normal of 5-8 ml/kg to 10.7 to 14.4 ml/kg. No further increases in EVLW were observed in eight ARDS patients requiring fluid resuscitation for associated hypovolemia and hypoperfusion. We feel that measurement of EVLW in critically ill patients offers an opportunity to study the pathophysiology of pulmonary failure.
Calculating cardiac output from transmitral volume flow using Doppler and M-mode echocardiography.	To simplify transmitral volume flow determination by Doppler echocardiography, a formula for calculating mean mitral valve orifice area using M-mode echocardiography without any 2-dimensional measurements was developed and evaluated in this study. The maximal mitral orifice area was assumed to be circular and its diameter was calculated from the maximal M-mode mitral leaflet separation. The maximal area was multiplied by the mean to maximal anterior mitral leaflet excursion ratio to correct for phasic changes in flow orifice area during ventricular filling. This measurement had a high correlation (r = 0.97, standard error of the estimate + 0.26 cm2) with mean mitral valve orifice area calculated from frame-by-frame analysis of short-axis 2-dimensional echoes in a select group of 10 normal volunteers and 10 patients with cardiomyopathy who had very high quality images of the mitral valve leaflet tips. Cardiac output calculated using the new method for orifice area estimation combined with apex view mitral valve Doppler velocities was then validated in 48 consecutive patients undergoing thermodilution cardiac output determinations with a close correlation between Doppler and thermodilution cardiac output (2.3 to 6.1 liter/min, r = 0.93, standard error of the estimate = 362 ml). The correlation improved when 12 patients with mild mitral insufficiency were excluded (r = 0.95). The M-mode echocardiogram-derived mitral valve orifice method combined with Doppler mitral valve velocities is accurate, easy to perform, has a high success rate and should increase the applicability of Doppler echocardiography for estimation of cardiac output.
Right-ventricular contractility in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a combined radionuclide and hemodynamic study.	The effect of pulmonary artery hypertension on right-ventricular performance in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is unclear. Decreased values of right-ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) have been reported, but most patients with stable COPD are not in cardiac failure and have normal or even increased cardiac outputs. We therefore hypothesized that RVEF may be afterload dependent, and thus a poor parameter of cardiac function, and that right-ventricular contractility may be normal even in COPD patients with pulmonary hypertension. We therefore studied 24 COPD patients using a combined hemodynamic and radionuclide approach. RVEF and thermodilution stroke volume index were measured simultaneously at rest in all 24 patients and also during bicycle ergometry in 9 patients. We then calculated end-diastolic and end-systolic volume indices and derived right-ventricular systolic pressure-volume relations in all and the slopes (E) of the pressure-volume line in 9 patients. RVEF was normal in COPD patients without pulmonary hypertension, but was reduced in those with pulmonary hypertension. A strong inverse linear relation between RVEF and mean pulmonary artery pressure (r = -0.73; p less than 0.001) and pulmonary vascular resistance (r = -0.69; p less than 0.001) could be demonstrated, indicating RVEF to be highly afterload dependent. Right-ventricular end-diastolic volume index was significantly higher in patients with pulmonary hypertension, indicating increased preload as the major mechanism to maintain adequate stroke volume in the face of an increased afterload. Right-ventricular end-systolic pressure-volume relations, a good parameter to define right-ventricular contractility independent of systolic loading conditions, were not different between COPD patients with or without pulmonary hypertension, nor did the slopes of the pressure-volume lines in the 9 patients studied during exercise show any difference. From these data we conclude that (a) RVEF is a poor indicator of overall right-ventricular function; (b) right-ventricular contractility is well preserved in stable COPD patients; (c) the major mechanism of maintaining stroke volume in the face of increased right-ventricular afterload seems to be preload augmentation.
A comparison of hemodynamic indices derived by invasive monitoring and two-dimensional echocardiography.	Intraoperative two-dimensional echocardiography (2D-echo) is useful for monitoring global and regional left ventricular function. The 2D-echo view most frequently utilized during intraoperative monitoring is the short-axis view at the level of the papillary muscles. To determine whether hemodynamic data can be derived from this single 2D-echo short-axis view, 12 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) were studied. All patients had normal left-ventricular function preoperatively (ejection fraction = 64% +/- 12%). Echo-data were obtained before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) by epicardial placement of a 5 MHz echo-transducer. The correlation between thermodilution and echo-derived cardiac indices was good (r = 0.8), and not significantly different from the correlation between stroke indices (r = 0.68). A strong positive correlation was established between end-diastolic volume index and echo cardiac index (CIE) (r = 0.93 before CPB; r = 0.91 after CPB) and end-diastolic area index and CIE (r = 0.94 before CPB; r = 0.91 after CPB). The pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was not a determinant of cardiac index before or after cardiopulmonary bypass. No correlation was observed between systemic vascular resistance and echo-derived wall stress. These findings demonstrate that, in patients with good left-ventricular function undergoing CABG surgery, 2D-echo provides a better index of left-ventricular preload than conventional invasive hemodynamic monitoring.
Continuous noninvasive monitoring of cardiac output with esophageal Doppler ultrasound during cardiac surgery.	Esophageal Doppler ultrasonography offers a continuous and noninvasive alternative to standard thermodilution cardiac output monitoring. A total of 372 simultaneous measurements of Doppler and thermodilution cardiac output were compared in 16 patients undergoing cardiac surgery. In addition, echocardiographic aortic diameter measurement, necessary for Doppler calibration, was compared with direct surgical measurement in 23 patients. Echocardiographic aortic measurement was often time consuming and correlated poorly (r = 0.31) with surgical measurement. On the other hand, Doppler cardiac output was determined easily and accurately tracked thermodilution cardiac output (R2 = 0.95, common slope coefficient 1.050, by multiple linear regression). Furthermore, Doppler cardiac output was more reproducible, showing less short-term variability than thermodilution cardiac output. The esophageal Doppler technique allows cardiac output monitoring in patients for whom invasive monitoring is not warranted.
Transesophageal Doppler scanning versus thermodilution during general anesthesia. An initial comparison of cardiac output techniques.	Measurement of cardiac output has become an essential feature of anesthetic management of patients with cardiac disease requiring operation. Thermodilution by way of a Swan-Ganz catheter is the current popular technique for cardiac output determination. Unfortunately, this method is costly and has an associated irreducible morbidity rate and has, in rare instances, resulted in death. The suprasternal ultrasonographic Doppler technique has shown promise for measuring cardiac output noninvasively; however, it is too cumbersome for continuous intraoperative use. In an effort to overcome this limitation, the esophageal stethoscope was modified to accept a Doppler probe. Herein, we have reported an initial comparison of transesophageal Doppler scanning and thermodilution in 23 adult men during general anesthesia. The average difference between thermodilution and descending cardiac output was 0.16 +/- 0.81 liters/min. The correlation between thermodilution and descending cardiac output increased with operator experience. In the last 13 patients, there was an average correlation of 0.85. After the equipment was mastered and improvements in design were made, descending cardiac output had a high correlation with thermodilution and appeared to track the dynamic changes during general anesthesia.
Measurement of cardiac output during pregnancy: validation of Doppler technique and clinical observations in preeclampsia.	In 12 patients requiring pulmonary artery catheterization, cardiac output was measured using Doppler and thermodilution techniques. The Doppler technique accurately predicted measurements made by thermodilution (r = 0.91; P less than .001). Eighteen normal patients in the third trimester and 36 preeclamptics who had not been treated with medications other than magnesium sulfate were evaluated with Doppler alone. Of note was the heterogeneity among preeclamptics. Although their mean systemic vascular resistance was elevated, it ranged from 2256-648 dyne X sec X cm-5. Cardiac output ranged from 13.2-3.9 L/minute.
The sensitivity of radionuclide and thermodilution techniques to detect cardiac dysfunction in the baboon model during prolonged anaesthesia.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the fluctuations of cardiac parameters in a baboon model during pentobarbitone anaesthesia which will serve as a baseline control for shock studies. Thermodilution and radionuclide methods were used to determine cardiac parameters. Radionuclide studies were repeated without any cardiac catheters to assess the effect of these on cardiac performance. The results represent baseline fluctuations in cardiac parameters against which cardiac dysfunction can be diagnosed in shock studies. The results also indicate that cardiac catheterisation does not affect cardiac performance significantly.
Influence of sampling site and flow area on cardiac output measurements by Doppler echocardiography.	In 40 patients cardiac output was simultaneously determined by pulsed Doppler echocardiography and thermodilution (range 4.0 to 10.2 liters/min). The sample volume was located in the center of the mitral anulus, at the tips of the mitral leaflets and in the center of the aortic anulus. Circular cross-sectional areas of the mitral anulus, aortic anulus and aortic bulbus were calculated from M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiographic diameters. The varying short axis of the elliptical mitral opening area was obtained from the diastolic leaflet separation in the M-mode, and the long axis was derived from the maximal mitral orifice area or mitral anulus diameter. Cardiac output was calculated by multiplying time-velocity integrals with the different areas and heart rate. Doppler flow measurements correlated significantly with the thermodilution method (r = 0.79 to 0.93). Flow measurements at the aortic anulus were most accurate (r = 0.93, SEE = 0.589 liter/min) if the annular area was derived from the M-mode tracing. Measurement of the anulus in the apical five chamber view yielded a significant underestimation and the area of the aortic bulbus provided an overestimation of cardiac output. Left ventricular inflow was underestimated at the mitral leaflet tips and overestimated at the mitral anulus. The accuracy of pulsed Doppler cardiac output measurements strongly depends on the assumed flow area and sampling site. Both should be determined at the same level in the inflow or outflow tract of the left ventricle. Measurement of cardiac output in the center of the aortic anulus provided the highest accuracy.
Measurement of effective pulmonary blood flow by soluble gas uptake in patients with chronic airflow obstruction.	A study was designed to assess the accuracy and reproducibility of rebreathing and single breath soluble gas uptake measurements of effective pulmonary blood flow (Q) in patients with airways obstruction. Both rebreathing (RB) and single breath (SB) estimates of Q were compared with direct Fick and thermodilution (TD) measurements of cardiac output at rest and during exercise in eight patients with chronic, poorly reversible airflow obstruction with mean FEV1 65% predicted and mean FEV1/FVC 53%. The mean (SD) resting values obtained were QRB 3.47 (0.46), QSB 4.75 (1.15), QFick 4.77 (0.97), and QTD 5.15 (0.98). QRB was significantly lower than the other three estimates, which did not differ significantly from each other. Exercise produced significant increases in all four estimates for the group. The mean exercise values were QRB 6.23 (1.19), QSB 7.62 (1.97), QFick 8.97 (1.96), and QTD 9.09 (1.00), both QRB and QSB being significantly less than QFick and QTD. Analysis of variance of the rest, exercise, and combined data showed highly significant relationships with the TD and Fick measurements for both QRB and QSB over the range of values studied. In addition, the reproducibility of QRB and QSB was assessed in 15 other patients with chronic airflow obstruction (mean FEV1 42% predicted, FEV1/FVC 43%) and in 10 normal subjects. The coefficients of intrasubject variability for a single measurement for QRB were 8.7% in normal subjects and 10.2% in patients and for QSB were 11.7% in normal subjects and 16.1% in patients. The group differences from morning to afternoon, between days, and over a month were not significant in the normal subjects. In the patients QRB was slightly higher in the afternoon than in the morning of the same day, but the differences between days and over a month were not significant for either test. Although both tests detected the increase in pulmonary blood flow during exercise, the single breath test was more accurate at rest. Some underestimation was present for rebreathing at rest and for both tests during exercise, but this can be allowed for. In patients with mild airflow obstruction the reproducibility of the soluble gas uptake methods was similar to that of invasive catheter methods of cardiac output estimation. The single breath test in particular was, however, less reproducible in patients with more severe airflow obstruction, and the rebreathing method may be more useful for detecting increases in pulmonary blood flow in these patients.
Comparison of the acute hemodynamic response to intravenous nisoldipine (Bay k 5552) and intravenous nifedipine for left ventricular dysfunction secondary to myocardial infarction.	Dihydropyridine calcium blocking drugs exert potentially dangerous negative inotropic action in selected patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. In 10 patients peripheral and central hemodynamic effects of nisoldipine were intraindividually compared with nifedipine using a sequential crossover protocol. The drugs were titrated to a similar steady-state reduction of mean arterial pressure by 15 +/- 3% and 15 +/- 2% and systemic vascular resistance by 25 +/- 5% and 17 +/- 2%, respectively. The equi-effective dosage was 0.17 +/- 0.06 microgram/min/kg for nisoldipine and 0.58 +/- 0.1 microgram/min/kg for nifedipine. In contrast to nifedipine, administration of nisoldipine was associated with increases in cardiac index of 0.45 +/- 0.33 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.05), stroke volume index of 3.91 +/- 3.0 ml/m2 (p less than 0.05) and left ventricular ejection fraction of 4.6 +/- 2.8% (p less than 0.05). Mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased with nisoldipine from 11.8 +/- 3.4 to 8.0 +/- 3.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.005) and mean pulmonary arterial pressure from 20.4 +/- 4.06 to 16.1 +/- 3.2 mm Hg (p less than 0.005); these variables were unaffected by nifedipine. Thus, intraindividual comparison revealed no cardiodepressive action of nisoldipine, whereas with nifedipine the conceptually beneficial effect of afterload reduction appears to be offset by intrinsic negative inotropic action. Due to higher vasospecificity and more effective unloading, nisoldipine appears to be superior to nifedipine in patients with left ventricular dysfunction secondary to ischemic heart disease.
Cardiac stroke volume during exercise measured by Doppler echocardiography: comparison with the thermodilution technique and evaluation of reproducibility.	Cardiac stroke volume was measured simultaneously by Doppler echocardiography and thermodilution in patients with severe coronary artery disease. One group (20 patients) was examined during supine exercise at 25 W and a second group (20 patients) during sitting exercise at 25 W and 50 W. In a third group (10 patients) the reproducibility of the non-invasive stroke volume estimate was determined during upright exercise. There was a considerable variation between results obtained with the invasive and non-invasive technique at rest and during exercise, but no systematic differences were found. Analysis of variance showed that no systematic differences between ultrasonic results were introduced by two observers or by measurements on different days. The coefficient of variation between any pairs of Doppler measurements in each patient was 6%. These findings demonstrate that the ultrasonic technique is suitable for detecting changes in stroke volume induced by low load exercise in patients with severe angina pectoris.
Effects of histamine on coronary hemodynamics in humans: role of H1 and H2 receptors.	To evaluate whether histamine exerts a direct effect on coronary hemodynamics in humans, and to investigate the role played by H1 and H2 receptors in this response, intracoronary saline solution or histamine (4 micrograms) was administered in 10 patients with normal coronary arteries during diagnostic cardiac catheterization. Histamine injection was repeated after intravenous cimetidine (400 mg) and diphenhydramine (10 mg). The electrocardiogram, arterial pressure and thermodilution coronary blood flow were continuously monitored during and for 40 seconds after each injection. Immediately after histamine injection there was a significant increase in coronary blood flow (65 +/- 6%) and a decrease in coronary vascular resistance (-40 +/- 3%) (both p less than 0.001), with minor changes in the RR interval and the mean arterial pressure. H2 receptor blockade with cimetidine did not affect these changes, while H1 receptor blockade with diphenhydramine significantly reduced the histamine-induced increase in coronary blood flow and the decrease in coronary vascular resistance (26 +/- 6%, p less than 0.005 and -18 +/- 5%, p less than 0.001, respectively). Twenty to 30 seconds after histamine injection, a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (-17 +/- 2%, p less than 0.001) and in the RR interval (-4 +/- 1%, p less than 0.01) was observed. These changes persisted after H2 receptor blockade with cimetidine, but were completely abolished after H1 receptor blockade with diphenhydramine. In each case coronary and systemic hemodynamics returned to normal within 40 seconds of the injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical application of monitoring techniques: coronary sinus blood flow monitoring.	Measurement of coronary sinus blood flow by continuous thermodilution is a well established technique for the clinical study of myocardial perfusion. More recently, advances in catheter technology enabled regional left ventricular flow measurements. In particular, measurement of flow from the great cardiac vein appears to accurately reflect the perfusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. This regional approach allowing the correlation with coronary arterial anatomy, has contributed to an improved understanding of the mechanisms by which functional factors interact with organic narrowing in the genesis of myocardial ischemia at rest, during provocative tests and during exercise. In addition, it has provided useful information in the evaluation of antianginal drugs through the discrimination between the effects on coronary resistance and myocardial oxygen consumption.
Hyperemic myocardial perfusion imaging for noninvasive detection of coronary disease in man: comparison of treadmill exercise and intravenous dipyridamole infusion.	To further understand hyperemic myocardial perfusion imaging, the effects of exercise and intravenous dipyridamole on coronary flow, coronary stenosis luminal area, stenosis flow resistance, and regional myocardial perfusion were evaluated in patients with arteriographically documented coronary artery disease. Coronary hemodynamics were assessed in 24 patients undergoing routine diagnostic catheterization. Coronary flow was measured by coronary sinus thermodilution. Computer assisted stenosis measurements were made. During isometric handgrip coronary sinus flow increased to 1.7 X baseline value, and epicardial coronary arteries constricted to increase predicted stenosis flow resistance by 40%. A 4-minute intravenous dipyridamole infusion (0.56 mg/kg) increased coronary sinus flow to 2.4 X baseline with, on average, no change in the stenotic coronary lumen diameter. During simultaneous isometric handgrip and dipyridamole infusion coronary sinus flow increased to 3.3 X baseline value and stenosis flow resistance increased an average of 36%. Regional myocardial perfusion was assessed in 33 patients by thallium201 myocardial perfusion imaging following maximal treadmill exercise and again following intravenous dipyridamole infusion. Regional thallium201 imaging effects were correlated with measurements of angiographic coronary disease. Sensitivity and specificity for detecting a greater than or equal to 50% stenosis were 85% and 64% (p less than .005), respectively, for dipyridamole and 84% and 68% (p less than .005) for exercise thallium201. In summary, coronary blood flow increases with isometric exercise and is near maximal following intravenous dipyridamole. Quantitative arteriographic techniques demonstrate isometric exercise-induced constriction of coronary stenoses and increased stenosis flow resistance. Stenosis flow resistance increases following intravenous dipyridamole only for severe (greater than or equal to 65%) lesions. Treadmill exercise and intravenous dipyridamole are comparably effective hyperemic stimuli for creating regional perfusion differences for the noninvasive detection of coronary disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Continuous Fick cardiac output compared to thermodilution cardiac output.	A system has been developed to monitor continuously the components of the oxygen Fick equation: oxygen consumption by a gas exchange analyzer and arteriovenous oxygen difference by pulse and fiberoptic oximetry. A computer-based system was developed which calculates cardiac output and other variables every 20 sec. Continuous Fick (CF) cardiac output was compared to thermodilution (TD) cardiac output in 21 ventilated post-cardiac surgery patients. A total of 237 simultaneous cardiac output measurements had a range between 2 and 11 L/min. The correlation between CF and TD cardiac outputs was r = .86, with an equation of TD cardiac output = 0.92 CF cardiac output + 1.16. There was a significant (p less than .001) difference between the two methods of cardiac output estimation. The CF method was consistently lower than TD; this difference was greater at lower flows. CF cardiac output measurement is practical; it offers distinct advantages in viewing cardiac output together with oxygen demand and oxygen extraction.
Continuous noninvasive real-time monitoring of stroke volume and cardiac output by thoracic electrical bioimpedance.	Thoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) is a noninvasive method for the estimation of left ventricular stroke volume (SV). Objections to TEB in the past have included systematic overestimation of SV and cardiac output in normals, poor correlation in absolute terms with standard cardiac output reference techniques, motion and ventilation artifacts which distorted recorded waveforms except when patients remained in apnea during measurements, and lack of a computer to yield rapid heat-to-beat quantitation of SV and cardiac output. The present study entails real-time, beat-to-beat cardiac output determinations using TEB and assessing its agreement via a digital computer against a reference standard, thermodilution. A correlation coefficient of 0.88 is reported with 85% of data points falling within 20% confidence limits on either side of the line of identity.
Evaluation of extravascular lung fluid]	The possibility of using the thermodilution technique for diagnosis of pulmonary oedema was studied in theoretical model of thermodilution between intra- and extravascular fluid spaces of pulmonary tissue as well as in acute experiments on anesthetized and immobilized dogs with hydrostatic pulmonary oedema. The intensity of thermoindicator diffusion at the "left atrium--aorta" stretch was found to depend on the degree of oedema. The following equation is suggested for calculating the pulmonary extravascular fluid volume: Vev = tev (Qao--Qpa). The thermodilution technique may be used as an independent method for diagnosis of pulmonary oedema.
The thermal-dye method of lung water measurement is reliable at a low cardiac output.	The measurement of lung water by the thermal-dye double indicator dilution technique was evaluated in dogs with normal and edematous lungs during a state of reduced cardiac output. The technique used cold indocyanine green dye to measure extravascular thermal volume (EVTV) as an estimate of extravascular lung water (EVLW). Anesthesia was maintained with pentobarbital. In 15 of 21 animals, pulmonary edema was first induced with oleic acid (0.75 to 0.18 ml/kg). Cardiac output (CO) was then decreased by a combination of propranolol and slow exsanguination (mean CO reduction to 36% of baseline). Extravascular lung water produced in this model ranged from 1.4 to 30.2 ml/kg. Predetermination measurements of EVTV correlated closely with EVLW as determined by gravimetric analysis (EVTV = 1.1 EVLW + 4.7 ml/kg, n = 21, r = 0.93, P less than 0.001). Thermodilution cardiac output measured in the abdominal aorta (used in the calculation of the EVTV) correlated well with simultaneous measurements of cardiac output by both indocyanine green dye dilution and pulmonary artery thermodilution (r = 0.86 and r = 0.88, respectively, pretermination). The thermal-dye technique appears to provide an accurate reflection of lung water in normal and edematous lungs, even in the presence of a low cardiac output.
Local thermodilution: a reliable technique for estimating renal blood flow in the rabbit.	1. A thermistor probe designed for determination of renal blood flow in rabbits, consisted of a fast-responding bead thermistor and an injection port which was also used to measure renal venous pressure between injections. 2. By an in vitro calibration system, actual measured flow (Qa) correlates well with the thermodilution calculated flow (Qc), where Qc = 0.99 Qa + 4.9 (r = 0.97, n = 42). 3. The renal blood flow (RBF) as determined by the thermodilution technique in 3 control groups was 53 +/- 3 (8), 60 +/- 6 (8), and 62 +/- 3 (3) ml/min/kidney or about 9% of the cardiac output. 4. Hypovolemia (-10%) reduced RBF by 19% from the control value, whereas, hypervolemia (+10%) did not alter RBF. 5. Smoke-induced apnea resulted in hypertension (+30%) and bradycardia (-39%), and was associated with changes in RBF (-55%) and renal vascular resistance (+183%). 6. We conclude that the local thermodilution technique is a relatively easy and reliable method for estimating RBF in rabbits.
Loss of indicator in the thermodilution technique.	The use of a second thermistor for detecting the injectate temperature in the extravascular segment of a standard right heart thermodilution catheter is described. Experiments with chilled (0 degrees C) indicator show that the temperature of the injectate as it enters the catheter is always greater than zero and that it depends on time and the gradient between indicator and surroundings; that serial injections made 30 to 60 seconds apart are successively cooler and do not plateau until the third injection. These variables amount to an overestimation in the cardiac output of 3 to 12%.
Stroke volume measured by pulsed ultrasound Doppler and M-mode echocardiography.	The velocity of the bloodstream in the ascending aorta was measured by pulsed ultrasound Doppler. The diameter of the aorta was measured by M-mode echocardiography. Forty-three measurements were performed in six patients, who all had a Swan-Ganz catheter. The calculated stroke volumes from the Doppler-Echo method were compared with the stroke volumes measured by the thermodilution technique, which was performed simultaneously with the Doppler measurements. The correlation between the measurements was good (r = 0.08). It is concluded that it is possible non-invasively to measure stroke volume (and cardiac output) by means of ultrasound Doppler and an echocardiograph.
Stroke volume in the dog: measurements by the impedance technique and thermodilution.	The main objective of this paper was to assess the efficacy of a laboratory prototype cardio impedance meter, to determine stroke volume in experimental dogs, using Kubicek's classic model. A second objective, complementary to the first, was to evaluate the method itself, under the carefully controlled condition in which cardiac frequency was increased from the initial to the final value. Measurements were performed on ten mongrel dogs (average body weight = 15.2 kg, SD = 4.7), employing the standard thermodilution procedure as reference. Based on a total of 179 determinations (about 18 per animal), the following regression equation was obtained: SVd = (0.36 SVz + 3.94) ml where SVd = stroke volume by thermodilution, SVz = stroke volume by impedance, with a standard error of the estimate SEE = 4.26 ml, a coefficient of variation CV = 32.8%, and 0.84 as correlation r. Thus, the impedance technique overestimated consistently by an average factor in the order of 2. These conclusions were made: In the experimental dog, the impedancimetric method can measure non-invasively directional and relative changes in stroke volume; this permits the effect of several types of maneuvres to be followed on a beat-to-beat basis. The lack of accuracy would require the development of a more sophisticated mathematical model; however, a practical statistical expression for laboratory use is easily derivable, making the determination as if the measurement had been made with the thermodilution procedure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The hemodynamic tracking system: a method of data management and guide for cardiovascular therapy.	In the operating room or intensive care unit, multiple measurements of circulatory function are almost mandatory in patients with significant cardiovascular disease. Use in these areas requires that the information must be easily organized, rapidly obtained, and inexpensive. A hemodynamic tracking system that meets these criteria is described. This system incorporates a hand-held programmable calculator (cost = $210 to $300) to derive variables computed from standard cardiovascular measurements. The time required to obtain a set of measurements (including thermodilution cardiac output determinations in duplicate), key the numbers into the calculator, and obtain the derived indices is 4 minutes. Two patients, who had acute mitral insufficiency and whose clinical management differed substantially are presented to illustrate the use of data obtained from the hemodynamic tracking system.
Central hemodynamic indices studied by use of a tetrapolar variant of integral rheography of the human body]	Integral rheography is conducted by M. I. Tishchenko's method by means of bipolar rheographs which do not ensure accurate reading of the values which form the formula for determining the stroke volume. A modification of the method is suggested with the use of a tetrapolar diagram of impedance measurement and a technically perfect PPG-202 device with a widened range of measurement of the resistance of the object being studied, which ensures accurate impedance reading and stable calibration. To study the possibilities of the method, comparative investigations by means of the echocardiography and thermodilution methods and by means of the bipolar variant of integral rheography were conducted. The results of the investigations bear evidence that the method described is sufficiently accurate for studying central hemodynamics in the clinic and in the prehospital stage of management of the patients.
Saline and thermal dilution flow measurements: evaluation by means of an open hydraulic model.	A simple open hydraulic model was constructed with the main objective of making comparative evaluations of flow rate measurements, with saline and thermal dilution. In the range of 0.5 to 3.5 l/min, it was found that saline indicator gave a slight underestimation (in the order of 2%) while the thermal indicator showed a minor overestimation of approximately 1%. These values wee taken from the regression equations F (saline) = 0.945 F (real) + 0.0351 and F (thermo) = 1.020 F (real) - 0.0144, both in l/min. Correlations were higher than 0.99 in the two cases. Considering the overall error range, the thermodilution produced a value approximately twice that of saline (-21 to 25% versus -12 to +11%). However, this is not necessarily extendable to living organisms. The model was found useful for test and calibration of detecting cells and for teaching purposes.
Acute hemodynamic effects of piroximone i.v. in patients with severe heart failure]	Forty patients (30 men, 10 women) with severe congestive heart failure NYHA III (n = 30) and IV (n = 10) due to coronary heart disease (n = 19) or dilative cardiomyopathy (n = 21) were enrolled in this study. Mean age was 57 years. Eight patients each received 0.25 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg or 2.0 mg/kg piroximone intravenously or placebo (saline). Measurements were performed before and up to 4 h after drug administration using a Swan-Ganz right-heart thermodilution catheter.
The dependability of noninvasive stroke volume measurements with impedance cardiography]	In 33 patients 110 comparative measurements of stroke volume were performed by the thermodilution method and impedance cardiography during rest and various hemodynamic interventions. Agreement was moderate not allowing accurate estimation of the stroke volume in an individual patient. However, impedance cardiography proved useful in predicting acute changes in stroke volume or cardiac output exceeding 10% of control values.
Comparison of cardiac output measurements by thermodilution and thoracic electrical bioimpedance in critically ill versus non-critically ill patients.	Thoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) has been proposed as an alternative to thermodilution (TD) for the measurement of cardiac output in settings such as the Emergency Department where invasive monitoring is not available. Validation studies comparing TEB with TD suggest a wide range of variability in the agreement between the two methods. This prospective study tests the hypothesis that this variability may be related to the severity of patient illness. Fifteen non-critically ill patients undergoing cardiac catheterization and 13 critically ill patients who underwent Swan-Ganz catheterization in the medical intensive care unit (MICU) were enrolled. Fifty-one pairs of data from the catheterization laboratory and 49 pairs of data from the MICU were obtained. The patients were graded retrospectively according to the APACHE II scoring system. The mean difference (bias) between TEB and TD results was calculated for each patient using the method suggested by Bland and Altman. A pooled t-test was performed to determine whether there was any significant difference between the APACHE II scores or cardiac output measurements obtained by TEB and TD in the two groups. APACHE II scores were 4.7 +/- 1.2 for the catheterization laboratory and 14.2 +/- 5.0 for the intensive care unit patients (P < .001). The catheterization laboratory (cath lab) group bias was 0.23 +/- 2.19, whereas the MICU bias was .002 +/- 2.33. There was no significant difference in the bias between the two groups despite significant differences in the APACHE II scores. Standard deviations of the bias were less than 15% different from each other.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Invasive monitoring combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic study in septic shock.	An investigation into the incidence and the clinical implication of discrepancies which may sometimes occur between invasive and non-invasive hemodynamic evaluation in septic patients.
Comparison of cardiac output measured continuously by thermodilution and calculated according to Fick's principle]	Recently, a thermodilution technique for continuous measurement of cardiac output was introduced. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of continuous cardiac output measurement using the thermodilution technique (CCO) and to assess the correspondence between CCO and cardiac output obtained with the Fick's principle (Fick-CO). Nine patients were studied in the postoperative period after cardiac surgery. A new pulmonary artery catheter modified by attachment of a thermal filament (Intellicath, Model PA3-H-8Fr) was inserted and connected to a continuous cardiac output computer (Vigilance Monitor). Oxygen consumption was continuously measured using the gas exchange method (Deltatrac Metabolic Monitor). Fick-CO was calculated according to the Fick's principle. The study in each patient consisted of 6 serial determinations of both CCO and Fick-CO at 10 min intervals. For 54 pairs of measurements, the mean difference (Fick-CO-CCO) was 0,6 L.min-1. The limits of agreement were--0,6 to 1,8 L.min-1 respectively. The relative error was 6% for CCO and 10% for Fick-CO. It is concluded that CCO and Fick-CO cannot be considered as being interchangeable. However, the accuracy of CCO is acceptable. The technique does not require any user calibration and eliminates the need of bolus injections. Further studies are necessary to determine the benefits of this new technique in the various clinical situations.
Experimental assessment of right ventricular function in normal pigs with a left ventricular assist device.	Right ventricular (RV) failure during the use of a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is the leading cause of death in circulatory support patients. Previous work, both experimentally and clinically, has shown the difficulties in predicting the behavior of the right ventricle at the start of LVAD. An experimental study has been designed to evaluate RV functional changes during LVAD and its relation to preload changes. The model used adult mongrel pigs (n = 10). Right ventricular functional parameters were measured with a thermodilution RV ejection fraction catheter. The left ventricle was supported by a Nippon Zeon blood pump. Two groups were studied, the first one was the LVAD-off group (n = 5) and the other was the LVAD-on group (n = 5) which was supported by LVAD at maximum flow. Change of cardiac output, mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), RV stroke work, and RV ejection fraction in both groups were not significantly different. However, the relationship between right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (RV-EDP) and right ventricular stroke volume (RVSV) was significantly changed at a high level of RV-EDP. When RV-EDP was over 6.5 mm Hg in the LVAD-off group, RVSV decreased to 52.3 +/- 11.5 ml while in the LVAD-on group, RVSV increased to 97.2 +/- 22.0 ml. The change in PAP in the LVAD-on group was lower than in the LVAD-off group. We conclude that, at the volume overload state, LVAD can reduce the afterload of the right ventricle and maintain Frank-Starling's effect, thus having a beneficial effect on right ventricular performance.
Assessment of cardiac output during exercise. Transthoracic impedance vs. heart rate alone.	Previous investigators demonstrated divergent results, when comparing impedance to other established methods for the assessment of cardiac output. Cardiac output is defined as stroke volume multiplied by heart rate. Heart rate is easy to measure and the main determinant of cardiac output during exercise under physiologic conditions. Therefore, cardiac output (CO) by tetrapolar impedance cardiography (TIC) was compared to thermodilution (TD) in 35 patients (P). In a second step it was examined how heart rate alone would perform as a predictor of CO under exercise. Measurements were done at rest, 25, 50, 75, and 100 w. Results were corrected for hematocrit (HCT). There was no correlation between CO by TD and by TIC at rest (r = -0.006). Under exercise correlation was somewhat better with r = 0.45 despite correction for HCT. Mean values were similar, but scatter was wide. Relative increase in CO by both methods was also correlated (r = 0.46), while heart rate alone correlated best to TD (r = 0.65). Transthoracic impedance cardiography is not a reliable technique to measure absolute values of cardiac output at rest. During exercise large scatter limits this method to the measurement of CO in larger groups. At exercise heart rate alone appears to be a better indicator of increase of cardiac output than impedance cardiography.
O2 consumption by the fick method. Methodologic factors.	This study aimed to compare O2 consumption (VO2) determination by the gas-exchange (VO2GE) and Fick (VO2F) methods in cardiac surgical patients. A total of 10 mechanically ventilated postoperative patients were studied prospectively. Thermodilution was performed using three randomly applied techniques: room temperature saline injected at end expiration, room temperature saline randomly injected in the respiratory cycle, and iced saline injected at end expiration. The influence of the number of thermodilution determinations was assessed by comparing results from 2 and 10 injections. The variability of VO2F was greater than that of VO2GE. There was no bias between VO2GE and VO2F values using injectate at room temperature. Accuracy and precision were not improved by increasing the number of cardiac output determinations from 2 to 10. A significant bias was observed using ice-cold injectate, VO2F being 18.0 +/- 15.4 ml/min/m2 lower than VO2GE (p = 0.001). Published results when comparing VO2F and VO2GE are discrepant. However, a significant bias was found in all studies using cold injectate, with lower VO2F values. We conclude that iced injectate should not be used to assess VO2 in critically ill patients.
Oxygen delivery and uptake relationships in patients with aortic stenosis.	Previous studies have reported finding supply-dependent O2 uptake (VO2) in patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome, sepsis, chronic obstructive lung disease, sleep apnea, and other cardiopulmonary diseases. A common element among these diverse conditions is the potential to reduce systemic O2 delivery (QO2 = cardiac output.arterial O2 content). The aim of the present study was to determine whether patients with aortic stenosis also exhibit increases in VO2 when O2 delivery is increased after valvuloplasty. Fifty-six patients were studied while breathing room air in the supine position. Expired gases for determination of O2 uptake (VO2 [measured]), cardiac output (thermodilution), arterial and mixed venous blood gases, and hemodynamic measurements were obtained immediately before and within 30 min after aortic valvuloplasty. After valvuloplasty, VO2 (measured) increased from 3.03 +/- 0.51 to 3.24 +/- 0.62 ml/min/kg (p < 0.0001). However, O2 extraction ratio did not change from baseline levels (32.16 +/- 10.1%) after valvuloplasty (32.21 +/- 8.25%, p = not significant). These results could have occurred only if O2 delivery had also increased. Accordingly, Fick-derived Q and corresponding QO2 (Fick) both increased significantly, suggesting the presence of O2 supply-dependent VO2. However, neither Q (thermodilution) nor QO2 (thermodilution) changed significantly, and regression of VO2 (measured) against QO2 (thermodilution) failed to detect a relationship. We conclude that patients with aortic stenosis exhibit increases in O2 delivery and uptake after valvuloplasty, although this may or may not reflect covert tissue hypoxia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
3D determination of the intravascular volume and flow of coronary arteries.	An angiographic method for measurement of absolute coronary blood flow in patients was developed. It is based on 3D-reconstruction of the left or right coronary tree from digitized biplane coronary cineangiograms. The apparatus is presently composed of a 35-mm cinefilm projector with video camera and a 512 x 512 x 8-bits image array processor controlled by a VAX-11/750 computer. First, the parameters of the two projections are determined in the form of two 4 x 3 matrices from a pair of cineframes showing a 4-cm cube bearing markers. The cube is filmed after the coronary injection, with unchanged geometric configuration. The coronary arteries of interest are then 3D-reconstructed from a pair of cineframes showing them fully opacified. This allows the intravascular volumes needed for flow determination to be computed. Preliminary measurements in 12 patients showed that flow values obtained angiographically in the left descending coronary artery correlate well with the values measured simultaneously by thermodilution in the great cardiac vein (Qangio = 0.83 x Qthermo + 16.1 ml, r = 0.87, n = 29).
Pulmonary artery and noninvasive hemodynamics during lung lavage in primary alveolar proteinosis.	Noninvasive hemodynamic monitoring by bioimpedance has been compared to cardiac output measured by thermodilution. The technology of bioimpedance does allow for monitoring of static thoracic impedance, a measurement thought to be affected by extravascular lung water. No contemporary studies (in the last 20 years) have examined the effectiveness of that parameter in measuring changes in lung water. This case report notes hemodynamics and examines thoracic impedance in a patient undergoing unilateral lung lavage. The hemodynamic data measured by bioimpedance and thermodilution correlated well (r = 0.97 for cardiac output). The changes in static impedance were compared to thoracic compliance during infusion of saline solution and evacuation. The changes in both parameters followed each other closely. Further work is required in patients with pulmonary edema or effusions before bioimpedance can be used to monitor such clinical events.
Continuous thermodilution measurement of cardiac output: in-vitro and in-vivo evaluation.	The current study was designed to evaluate a method for continuous measurement of cardiac output. The system consists of a modified pulmonary artery catheter that uses the thermodilution principle for determination of cardiac output. The evaluation was performed in vitro and in vivo. In-vitro evaluation was performed using a simple flow bench model (flow 2-9 L/min). Both continuous and bolus thermodilution methods were compared. Both methods showed good correlation with the pump flow calibrated using a volumetric tank and timer (correlation coefficient (r) for bolus thermodilution = 0.92, r for continuous thermodilution = 0.90). In-vivo evaluation was performed in six bovine experiments. Data from a total of 87 pairs of bolus versus continuous measurements were obtained. The cardiac output ranged from 1.9 to 8.9 L/min. The absolute measurement bias was not significant (mean: -0.07 L/min; 95% confidence limits: -0.87 and 0.73 L/min). The squared correlation coefficient from linear regression was 0.92. The results from this study suggest that the new continuous thermodilution measurement system for cardiac output provides accurate data in vitro and in vivo. Continuous monitoring of cardiac output adds a new dimension for evaluation of the patient's hemodynamic profile. Furthermore, significant volume load due to bolus thermodilution measurements can be avoided.
The initial distribution volume of glucose and cardiac output after haemorrhage in dogs.	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the role of insulin in glucose kinetics after glucose administration using an insulinogenic index to indicate the magnitude of insulin response. The initial distribution volume of glucose (IDV-G) was calculated with a one-compartment model from repeated measurements of plasma glucose concentration three to seven minutes after administration of 100 mg.kg-1 glucose. The IDV-G was compared with the insulin response and the thermodilution assessments of cardiac output, measured simultaneously both before and after induced haemorrhage (30 ml.kg-1 over 30 min) in 12 adult mongrel dogs. The plasma insulin concentration was measured during the procedure and insulinogenic indices were calculated. There was no correlation between the IDV-G and insulinogenic indices, but there was a correlation between the IDV-G and thermodilution cardiac output before and after induced haemorrhage (r = 0.85, n = 24, P < 0.001). We conclude that the initial distribution volume of glucose is an indication of cardiac output in normo- and hypovolaemic dogs. Modification of glucose kinetics by the insulin response to glycaemic stimuli was negligible in that short period of time.
High muscle blood flow in man: is maximal O2 extraction compromised?	During conventional cycle ergometry, as work rate (WR) is increased toward maximum, O2 extraction increases hyperbolically, typically achieving values of 80-90% at peak O2 uptake (VO2). In contrast, studies using isolated knee-extensor exercise report much higher mass-specific blood flows (Q) and lower maximal O2 extractions (approximately 70%), which have been interpreted as transit time limitation to O2 movement out of the muscle capillary. However, maximal achievable WR levels during conventional cycle ergometry are generally reached (over 10-15 min) after rapid increases in WR, whereas the reported knee-extensor studies have used only more lengthy protocols (45 min). The duration of these protocols may have prevented the attainment of high WR levels and thus high O2 extraction ratios. Accordingly, this investigation examined leg Q and O2 extraction responses during single-leg knee-extensor exercise incremented rapidly (steps of 15-25 W per 2- to 3-min interval), which produced fatigue in 13-15 min. Q and muscle VO2 increased linearly with WR to fatigue with Q-WR and VO2-WR slopes similar to those reported in previous knee-extensor studies. However, with the use of this protocol, very high maximal achievable WR [99 +/- 6 (SE) W] and muscle Q (385 +/- 26 ml.min-1 x 100 g-1) levels were attained, some 80% greater than previously reported. An O2 extraction of 84.6 +/- 2.1% was reached, giving a maximal VO2 of 60.2 +/- 5.8 ml.min-1 x 100 g-1. We conclude that, even under the high Q conditions of single-leg knee-extensor exercise, O2 extraction does not reach a plateau on the basis of short transit times and that previous conclusions to the contrary reflect failure to attain sufficiently high WR levels. Maximal VO2, Q, and O2 extraction in this model have yet to be defined.
Absence of supply dependence of oxygen consumption in patients with septic shock.	We tested whether oxygen consumption (VO2) was dependent on oxygen delivery (QO2) in 10 patients with septic shock when QO2 was changed by the use of the inotropic agent, dobutamine. The mean acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) II score of the patients was 27.3 +/- 8.1 with a mean blood pressure on entry of 66.8 +/- 12.4 mm Hg, and all had been volume resuscitated to a pulmonary artery occlusion pressure of greater than 10 mm Hg. We measured VO2 by analysis of respiratory gases (VO2G) while calculating VO2 by the Fick equation (VO2F) at three different O2 deliveries. When the dobutamine infusion rate was increased from 2.5 +/- 4.0 to 12.3 +/- 6.0 micrograms/kg/min, thermodilution cardiac output increased from 7.7 +/- 2.6 to 10.1 +/- 2.7 L/min (P < .01). Accordingly, dobutamine increased QO2 from 13.5 +/- 3.8 to 18.2 +/- 4.3 mL/min per kg (increase of 36.4% +/- 19.7%; P < .01), but VO2G did not increase (3.2 +/- 0.5 to 3.2 +/- 0.6 mL/min per kg). During these same interventions, the VO2F tended to increase (2.9 +/- 0.7 to 3.4 +/- 0.8 mL/min per kg, P < .06), presumably a spurious correlation because of measurement errors shared by the calculation of VO2F and QO2. Neither lactic acidosis nor acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) conferred supply dependence of VO2G, but the presence of ARDS was predictive of death in this cohort. It is concluded that VO2 is independent of QO2 in patients with septic shock and lactic acidosis. These data confirm that maximizing QO2 beyond values achieved by initial fluid and vasoactive drug resuscitation of septic shock does not improve tissue oxygenation as determined by respiratory gas measurement of VO2.
The relationship between the arteriovenous carbon dioxide gradient and cardiac index.	It has been reported that under normal conditions, mixed venous blood gases have approximated arterial samples; however, during cardiac arrest or severe cardiogenic shock, marked differences between arterial and venous blood gases have been noted. To further assess the relationships between arterial and mixed venous blood gases and cardiac index, a study population was chosen consisting of patients with less severe states of cardiac impairment. The differences between arterial and mixed venous PCO2s and pHs were compared with cardiac indexes (CI) of 44 patients in an intensive care unit with arterial lines and Swan-Ganz catheters in place. Twenty-six patients with normal CIs (2.6 to 4.1 L/min/m2) had a mean difference in mixed venous-arterial PCO2 (delta PCO2) of 4.88 +/- 0.40 mm Hg. In patients with low CIs (< 2.6), the delta PCO2 was 7.44 +/- 0.63 mm Hg (P = .001). The difference of mixed venous and arterial pH (delta pH) was 0.027 +/- 0.004 pH units for patients with normal CIs and 0.04 +/- 0.003 pH units for those with low CIs (P < .002). When the CIs of all patients were plotted against the delta PCO2s, there was an inverse linear relationship wherein delta PCO2 increased as CI decreased (r = -.47, P = .0011). There is an inverse relationship between delta PCO2 and CI that has not been previously described. An elevated delta PCO2 may be a marker of a low cardiac index.
Inhaled nitric oxide test for patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: value and feasibility]	Patients suffering from chronic lung disease (CLDP) often develop secondary pulmonary hypertension (HP), which contributes to right ventricular dysfunction and worsens their prognosis. In order to evaluate the severity of this HP, pharmacodynamics tests are periodically proposed to these patients. Therefore, the administration of vasodilators is limited by systemic and pulmonary side-effects. Inhaling nitric oxide gas (NO) has been reported to induce a selective pulmonary vasodilation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an inhaled NO test perfected in our service. Sixteen CLDP were investigated in the absence of acute pulmonary failure. All had severe pre-capillary HP, confirmed after placement of a thermodilution pulmonary-artery catheter (mean pulmonary artery pressure >20 mmHg, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure >12 mmHg). Each subject breathed spontaneously NO in a concentration of 10 ppm for 15 minutes. They were connected through a facial mask and a one-way valve put on the inspiratory connection of a ventilator (Drager-Evita), to a tank of nitrogen with a NO concentration of 900 ppm. Hemodynamic variables and gas exchange were measured before, during and after gas inhalation. The inspired fractions of NO and NO2 were determined using a Polytron analyser (Drager). The methemoglobin levels were measured with spectrophotometry (OSM3). Inhaled NO acts as a selective pulmonary arterial vasodilator, without systemic effect. The action on the shunt is variable. Methemoglobin levels are remained <0.01%. All the patients were satisfied with the way of NO administration. In view of the lack of systemic effects, its seems that the NO inhaled test proposed in this study may be used accurately to evaluate the HP of chronic lung disease patients.
Comparison of impedance cardiography with thermodilution and direct Fick methods for noninvasive measurement of stroke volume and cardiac output during incremental exercise in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy.	In the last decade, an inexpensive and simple noninvasive method (i.e., transthoracic electrical bioimpedance cardiography, has been tested in healthy subjects and patients with various heart disease for measuring stroke volume and cardiac output at rest and/or during exercise. However, the results are still controversial, especially when measurements are obtained during exercise and data on reproducibility during exercise are lacking. Twenty-five consecutive patients (20 men and 5 women, mean age 48 +/- 9 years) in sinus rhythm with documented coronary artery disease and a previous myocardial infarct were studied. Patients were divided into 2 groups. Group A had ischemic cardiomyopathy, characterized by left ventricular (LV) enlargement and LV ejection fraction depression (35 +/- 8%). Group B had normal LV dimensions and ejection fraction (62 +/- 9%). After a familiarization study, all patients underwent an exercise test with gas exchange analysis and hemodynamic measurements. Stroke volume and cardiac output were simultaneously obtained at rest and at the end of each work rate stage with 3 methods: impedance, thermodilution, and direct Fick. Group A reached a lower peak oxygen uptake (56%), peak work load (60%), and peak systolic blood pressure (69%) than group B. Cardiac output and stroke volume were significantly greater at submaximal and peak exercise in group B than in group A (p < 0.0001). There were no significant differences in stroke volume and cardiac output in the 3 techniques at any matched work rate. There was no significant difference between measurements obtained by 2 experienced observers or between those obtained on 2 exercise tests performed on 2 different days. These results demonstrate that impedance cardiography is a noninvasive, simple, accurate, and reproducible method of measurement of cardiac output and stroke volume over a wide range of workloads.
Mechanisms of right ventricular dysfunction after pulmonary resection.	Significant right ventricular (RV) dysfunction as measured by increased end-diastolic volume and reduced ejection fraction has been documented in the postoperative period after pulmonary resection. We hypothesized that changes in RV contractile state or afterload may contribute to this RV pump dysfunction.
Continuous, less invasive, hemodynamic monitoring in intensive care after cardiac surgery.	A pulse-contour-based method for continuous measurement of cardiac output (CO) and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) was tested and arterial thermodilution, used for calibration, was compared to pulmonary artery thermodilution. In 30 patients CO and SVR were measured by pulse contour analysis (COpc, SVRpc) 270 times in 24 h and compared to arterial (COart, SVRart) and pulmonary arterial (COpa, SVRpa) thermodilution measurements. The mean difference between COpa and COart was 0.26 L/min (3.6%) with a standard deviation (SD) of 0.7 L/min, the correlation coefficient was 0.96, and the coefficient of variation was 5.0% and 5.9% respectively. COpc did differ from COpa by 0.11 L/min (1.5%, SD = 0.6 L/min) and from COart by 0.15 L/min (2.1%, SD = 0.7 L/min). Correlation of COpc with COpa was 0.91, correlation of COpc with COart was 0.90. SVRpc did correlate with SVRpa, a coefficient of 0.94, and with SVRart, a coefficient of 0.92. Mean COpc and SVRpc did not differ significantly from COpa or COart and SVRpa or SVRart during the 24 h study period. It is concluded that COart correlates well with COpa and can be used to calibrate COpc. COpc and SVRpc agree with thermodilution-based CO and SVR without recalibration for 24 hours.
An improved method for coronary sinus blood flow monitoring by intravascular Doppler technique.	In order to obtain accurate measurements of coronary sinus blood flow (CSBF), a new catheter (7 French) with a radiopaque, flexible, and basket-shaped tip was developed for guiding a standard 3 Fr Doppler catheter in the coronary sinus (CS) in man. The radiopaque "basket" tip of the catheter allows the operator to stabilize the position of the Doppler transducer in the center of the CS and to accurately measure the CS internal diameter radiologically. CSBF was calculated as the product of CS cross-sectional area by mean CSBF velocity. Doppler-derived CSBF values at rest and during handgrip were compared with those obtained by the local thermodilution technique in 16 patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography. During handgrip, mean CSBF increased from 154+/-23 (rest) to 299+/-34 mL/min by the Doppler method and from 148+/-22 to 288+/-32 mL/min by the thermodilution technique. A good correlation (r = 0.86) between the CSBF values with the two techniques was observed. The authors conclude that the intravascular Doppler technique associated with the use of the basket guide catheter provides an accurate and simple tool for monitoring CSBF in patients.
Validation of left ventricular volume measurements by gated SPECT 99mTc-labeled sestamibi imaging.	Previous studies have shown that gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) technetium 99-labeled sestamibi imaging provides accurate and reproducible measurement of left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF), wall motion, and thickening. This study examined the reliability of gated SPECT sestamibi imaging in measuring LV end-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV), and stroke volume (SV).
Continuous noninvasive measurement of aortic blood flow in critically ill patients with a new esophageal echo-Doppler system.	Determination of aortic blood flow (ABF) using esophageal Doppler has been proposed as a low invasive hemodynamic monitoring method. The esophageal echo-Doppler Dynemo 3000 (Sometec Inc., Paris, France) system, recently available on the market, is an original device measuring simultaneously, and at the same anatomic level, aortic diameter, and blood flow velocity. Until now, this material has been used exclusively for peroperative monitoring. The objectives of the study were to assess the feasibility and reliability of use for continuous measurements of ABF in hemodynamically compromised intensive care unit patients; and to compare ABF values and its change induced by preload manipulation with the cardiac output (CO) values measured simultaneously by the standard thermodilution method.
Retrospective analysis of transpulmonary and pulmonary arterial measurement of cardiac output in ARDS patients]	To investigate the agreement (and its potential dependency on extra-vascular lung water) between transpulmonary (TPID) and standard pulmonary artery (PAID) thermodilution cardiac output measurements.
Multicenter study of noninvasive monitoring systems as alternatives to invasive monitoring of acutely ill emergency patients.	Recent reports showed lack of effectiveness of pulmonary artery catheterization in critically ill medical patients and relatively late-stage surgical patients with organ failure. Since invasive monitoring requires critical care environments, the early hemodynamic patterns may have been missed. Ideally, early noninvasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, if reliable, could be used as the "front end" of invasive monitoring to supply more complete descriptions of circulatory pathophysiology.
Noninvasive cardiac output monitoring by aortic blood flow determination: evaluation of the Sometec Dynemo-3000 system.	The Sometec Dynemo-3000 system allows the permanent measurement of descending aorta diameter by an echographic (A-scan) device and the blood flow velocity by a pulse Doppler velocimeter. The Dynemo-3000 then furnishes a new hemodynamic parameter, i.e., descending aortic blood flow (ABF), which is a fraction of the cardiac output (CO). We evaluate the ability of this system to measure the aortic diameter and to accurately detect ABF changes.
