Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy treatment of lower caliceal stones: an update on the use of a cobra catheter for direct irrigation.	As the general experience with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) for renal calculi broadens, it is increasingly evident that the clearance of stone fragments in lower pole calices needs to be improved. The stone-free rate posttreatment for lower caliceal stones is consistently less than that for other upper tract locations. Utilization of a cystoscopically placed cobra catheter for directed irrigation during ESWL with a Dornier HM4 lithotripter resulted in an increase of our lower caliceal stone-free rate to 64% (29/45) at 1 month follow-up and 73% (33/45) at 3 months follow-up compared to 36% (15/42) of randomly selected controls at 1 month (p less than 0.007) and 54% (23/42) at 3 months (p < 0.070). Patients were included in the study if they had a solitary calculus, less than 2 cm in size, located in a normal lower pole calix and had no indwelling stent placed by the referring physician.  The cobra catheter was positioned in the appropriate calix with fluoroscopic guidance under intravenous sedation.  Statistical analysis was performed using Pearson's Chi-square test.  We conclude that the pre-ESWL treatment placement of a cobra catheter into the lower pole calix and intermittent irrigation during the procedure is a useful adjunct in the successful treatment of lower caliceal calculi.
Suction-irrigator device for microsurgery: technical note]	A modification of the conventional suction device for microsurgery is described. It consists of a built-in tube in another tube, being the first connected to the suction device and the second to the irrigation. This suction-irrigator device allows to accomplish the suction and irrigation simultaneously and in a precise way.
Bone turnover markers in serum and periodontal microenvironments.	Periodontitis is characterized by altered bone turnover, but local measurements are difficult.
Accessory instrumentation for ureteroscopy.	The use of ureteroscopy for diagnostic and therapeutic applications has evolved rapidly over the past 5 years. The purpose of this review is to discuss recent advances in instrumentation for rigid and flexible ureteroscopy.
Does professional preventive care benefit from additional subgingival irrigation?	The effect of an oral irrigator (Water Pik, Intersante) with a subgingival tip (Pik Pocket Subgingival Tip, Intersante) in the reduction of gingivitis was investigated in a single-blind three-group study involving 45 volunteers (age 46.2+/-10.2). All volunteers (inclusion criteria: gingivitis or a superficial periodontitis) were examined and underwent professional tooth cleaning at the first appointment. They were then randomly distributed in three groups: one group used the irrigator with the subgingival tip once daily with just tap water, in addition to their regular oral hygiene; another group also used an herbal-based mouth rinse (Parodontax, GlaxoSmithkline) in the water of the irrigator; a third group did not use an irrigator or any irrigant and therefore served as control. All groups received professional oral care education at each appointment. The investigation period was 3 months. At baseline and after 4, 8, and 12 weeks, the plaque index (PI, scores 0-5), gingival index (GI, scores 0-3), bleeding index (BI scores 0-5), and sulcus fluid flow rate (SFFR, Periotron 6000) at the Ramfjord teeth were scored. At baseline and after 3 months, the probing depth (millimeters) was measured at six surfaces of all teeth. A significant reduction in BI, PI, GI, probing depth, and SFFR was observed within 3 months. With all volunteers, however, there was no statistically significant difference ( p>/=0.05, Wilcoxon-test, SAS 6.04) between the three groups at any time. The additional use of the Water Pik irrigator with the Pik Pocket subgingival irrigation device with or without an herbal mouth rinse showed no clinical benefit over professional education in oral hygiene alone.
Sialoscopy--initial experiences with a new endoscope.	After the introduction of mini-endoscopes for the diagnosis of swelling of the major salivary glands there has been further development of materials and techniques. A new highly flexible semirigid sialoendoscope with high quality imaging (6000 pixels), an outside diameter of 1.1 mm, a working channel of 0.4 mm, and a separate channel for irrigation has been developed and we examined its clinical value.
Dynamic clearance: mathematical assessment of flow mechanics in prostatic resection.	The understanding of flow mechanics in endoscopy is poor. In prostatic surgery, emphasis has been placed on limiting the rise of intravesical pressure with little regard to the effect on flow mechanics and visibility. A model has been developed using dynamic clearance to compare different methods of prostatic resection. The results show that in a 0.95-cm glass urethra, continuous flow irrigation has slower clearance at all flow rates when compared with intermittent irrigation and suprapubic suction. Although intravesical pressure is important, attention should also be paid to flow dynamics and more emphasis should be placed on this when new instruments and fluid delivery systems are developed.
A comparative study of three methods of nasal irrigation.	To assess the effectiveness of three methods of nasal irrigation on distributing saline to the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses.
Safety and efficacy of the POP technique for restoring patency to occluded PIC catheters.	Peripheral-inserted central catheters (PICCs) offer a successful alternative to peripheral venipuncture for long term medication therapy. When catheters become occluded, the nurse must intervene to avoid delayed or missed treatments. Pharmacological interventions are costly and not without risks. The purpose of this exploratory study was to test a mechanical percussive POP technique to restore patency. Thirty PICC catheters were clotted with human blood and incubated for 8 hours in a 35 degrees saline bath. Using the percussive POP technique, a 10-mL syringe with 1 mL of saline restored patency in 86% of the occluded catheters. The safety and effectiveness of the POP technique in vitro was established.
Implantation metastasis of adenocarcinoma of the paranasal sinuses in the middle ear]	Carcinoma of the middle ear is a rare disease. We report about a 65-year-old man in which case it is assumed that a transtubal implantation metastasis of an adenocarcinoma had settled in the middle ear. Regular irrigation of the operated nose and unnoticed carcinoma recurrence were main assumptions for intracanicular metastasis. With experiments on dead and alive we could show that irrigation fluid intrudes through the tube into the middle ear. Finally the problem of growth of carcinoma cells on intact epithelial surfaces is critically discussed.
Nonbronchoscopic approach to bronchoalveolar lavage in children with artificial airways.	Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) performed with a fiberoptic bronchoscope (FOB) is a useful method for sampling alveolar contents. Since the smallest FOB with a channel has a diameter of 3.6 mm, BAL is difficult to accomplish through artificial airways (AA) less than 5.0 mm I.D. We used a 4F balloon wedge pressure catheter to perform BAL through small AA. Supplemental O2 or ventilatory support was delivered via an adaptor through which the catheter was introduced. After it was passed distal to the AA, the balloon was inflated with normal saline (NS) to a predetermined volume, and advanced until resistance was felt. The balloon was deflated, advanced slightly, and then reinflated to achieve airway occlusion. Five aliquots of 0.75 mL/kg of NS were used for BAL. The procedure was performed in 20 children from 1 month (950 g) to 6 1/2 years of age (median, 9 months). All specimens contained abundant alveolar macrophages, indicating good recovery of alveolar contents. Clinically significant information was obtained in 17 (85%) cases, and no patient required an open lung biopsy. In conclusion, nonbronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage is a valuable method for obtaining alveolar contents in children with small AA that preclude the use of an FOB, and it obviates the need for open lung biopsy in many patients. This technique could be used as a research tool for measuring constituents of alveolar contents in infants and small animals.
Clinical effect of subgingival chlorhexidine irrigation on gingivitis in adolescent orthodontic patients.	Twenty-three adolescent orthodontic patients with gingivitis affecting all banded first molars volunteered for the study. Three measures associated with gingivitis (papilla bleeding index, plaque index, and probing depth) were recorded at four sites for all four molars. A single application of subgingival irrigation with 0.12% chlorhexidine digluconate or isotonic saline was performed for 5 seconds at each site. As determined by coin toss, the first molars on the right or left side of the mouth received either chlorhexidine or saline irrigation. The papilla bleeding index, plaque index, and probing depth were recorded before the treatment and subsequently at 2 weeks and then 4 weeks. The gingival bleeding as determined by papilla bleeding index, was virtually eliminated in 4 weeks by a single application of subgingival irrigation with either chlorhexidine or saline. However, there was no significant reduction in pocket depth or plaque index. In addition, no significant difference between the effect of chlorhexidine or saline was found for any of the outcome measures.
Microneurosurgical water probe.	When constructing the micro-neurosurgical water ball probe, the authors have simply combined the properties of a ball probe with an irrigational function and the supportive role of water current to form a new irrigating ball dissector. The micro-instrument has an outlet mechanism with which the surgeon can regulate the flow of physiological solution into the operational field. Its point has the properties of a ball probe, and the overall bayonet shape facilitates surgical interventions in deep tissues under microscopic control. The water probe therefore enables the surgeon to perform precise mechanical preparation supported by a regulated current of water and a targeted irrigation in the operational field. The physiological solution in the pressure infusion cuff is under minimal pressure and directly connected to the probe. Due to the fact that one device can be used for various purposes the water ball probe represents an advantageous alternative to conventional micro-neurosurgical preparation.
Clinical effectiveness of subgingival irrigation with a pulsated jet irrigator versus syringe.	Previous studies have shown clinical and microbiological improvement with subgingival irrigation particularly after scaling and root planing. In this study we monitored the effects of saline irrigation on non-treated periodontal pockets. Ten subjects with severe periodontal disease and symmetrical lesions on multirooted teeth were selected. They had not received periodontal treatment or antibiotics for the previous 6 months. Patients were given simplified oral hygiene instructions. Neither scaling nor root planing was provided during the study. Two teeth were randomly selected per quadrant for subgingival irrigation with saline solution. One side was treated with a syringe and the other side with a pulsated jet irrigator with a modified tip, professionally administered. Clinical parameters (pocket depth, plaque index, gingival index, crevicular fluid, bleeding index, attachment level, and subgingival microflora) were evaluated on days 0, 15, 30, 60, and 90. Both subgingival irrigation products induced changes (reductions) in these indices during the study. Significant differences (P less than 0.001) with the oral irrigator were found for the following parameters: microscopy, pocket depth, crevicular fluid, and plaque index. In this study, professionally administered saline irrigation with a pulsated jet irrigator was more effective than syringe treatment with the same solution. Neither treatment resulted in a detectable gain in probing attachment level. Since gain in attachment level is achievable by other techniques, neither of these subgingival irrigation procedures alone can be considered adequate for periodontal therapy.
Irrigation/aspiration handpiece with changeable tips for cortex removal in small incision phacoemulsification.	Cortex removal, especially at the 12 o'clock position, is more difficult with small incision phacoemulsification than with planned extracapsular cataract extraction. In this study an irrigation/aspiration handpiece with changeable tips was used for cortex removal in a large, unselected, consecutive series of small incision phacoemulsification procedures. The instrument provided a safe, effective, and economical method of cortex removal.
The effect of stimulus duration using the Brookler-Grams closed-loop caloric irrigator.	Nystagmic responses to traditional 40-sec, 30 degrees C water calorics were recorded and compared to those obtained with the Brookler-Grams closed-loop irrigator using 30 degrees C, 40-, 50-, and 60-sec irrigations. Significant differences were noted between the responses to the water irrigator and the 40- and 50-sec closed-loop irrigations. The 60-sec closed-loop irrigation produced responses that were equivalent to the responses obtained with the water irrigation in slow component velocity, amplitude, frequency, latency, and duration. The 30 degrees C 60-sec closed-loop irrigation is an acceptable stimulus in electronystagmographic caloric testing.
Technology of flushing vascular access devices.	Maintenance of catheter lumen patency is an ongoing challenge. Catheter flushing is the primary nursing intervention used to prevent lumen occlusion from thrombotic and precipitate causes. The catheter and all devices attached to it must be regarded as a system in which each component directly affects the others. The technology of catheter flushing includes the flush solution itself, the source of these solutions, syringe design, mechanical pumps, needleless injection systems, and the design of the catheter. Effective catheter flushing is a combination of a technique and technology that requires an understanding of how both must work together.
A safe and effective method for treatment of chronic subdural haematoma.	Burr-hole irrigation and burr-hole drainage without irrigation are the most popular methods for treatment of chronic subdural haematoma. It is not well known if irrigation is necessary or which method has a higher recurrence rate. We compared the recurrence rates of those two methods.
New lacrimal cannula for probing and irrigation in the tearing patient.	Katena cannula K7-3016 (Katena Products, Inc, Denville, NJ) is a 23-gauge cannula that features an end-opening port for direct irrigation and a tapered tip for ease of entry into an undilated punctum. The 13-mm length makes it ideal to probe as well as irrigate the proximal lacrimal system. Katena cannula K7-3016 eliminates the need for punctal dilation and placement of Bowman probes to dilate the punctum and measure canalicular obstruction, respectively. The end-opening, direct irrigation design prevents misdiagnosis in the setting of canalicular stenosis.
After-cataract following intraocular lens implantation. Part II: prevention with alternative implants and techniques]	The introduction of sharp-edged optics has drastically reduced, but not fully eradicated, retro-optical after-cataract formation. The effectiveness of capsular bending rings or primary posterior capsulorhexis is also limited, and these have not become widespread because of the demanding surgical technique and the costs associated with an additional implant. Anterior capsule polishing has been found to even increase the need for laser capsulotomy, and rinsing the sealed capsular bag with cell-toxic agents has not yet gained clinical application. Routine posterior optic buttonholing through a well-centered posterior capsulorhexis opening is a promising alternative because it precludes access of lens epithelial cells behind the optic while at the same time counteracting fibrosis of the anterior capsule. Because this effect is independent of optic rim design and lens material, future efforts in lens refinement may concentrate on reducing the reflectivity of the optic rim and optimizing the biocompatibility of the lens material.
Randomized clinical trial of prevention of hydrocephalus after intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants: brain-washing versus tapping fluid.	Hydrocephalus is a serious complication of intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants, with adverse consequences from permanent ventriculoperitoneal shunt dependence. The development of hydrocephalus takes several weeks, but no clinical intervention has been shown to reduce shunt surgery in such infants. The aim of this study was to test a new treatment intended to prevent hydrocephalus and shunt dependence after intraventricular hemorrhage.
Pulmonary vein antral isolation using an open irrigation ablation catheter for the treatment of atrial fibrillation: a randomized pilot study.	We sought to test how catheter ablation using an open irrigation catheter (OIC) compares with standard catheters for pulmonary vein antrum isolation.
Comparison of passive ultrasonic debridement between fluted and nonfluted instruments in root canals.	The purpose of this study was to determine if passive ultrasonic irrigation using finger spreaders was more effective than standard files in removing debris after root canal instrumentation. Eighty-five straight canals were instrumented and then passively ultrasonically irrigated with either fluted files or nonfluted finger spreaders for 3 minutes or 1 minute. Images of split canal lumens were imported into Adobe Photoshop CS2 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA), and percentage of debris remaining was calculated. Analysis of variance and Student Newman-Keuls post hoc tests (p<0.05) showed that when comparing the entire canal, 3 minutes of activation with a file had significantly less debris remaining than 1 minute of activation with a spreader. There was a trend for 1 minute of activation with a file to have less debris than either 3 minutes or 1 minute of activation with a spreader. When comparing apical, middle, or coronal thirds between groups, no significant differences were found. The use of a nonfluted spreader did not improve debris removal.
Comparison of the EndoVac system to needle irrigation of root canals.	Past studies have shown that current irrigation methods are effective at cleaning root canals coronally but less effective apically. To be effective, endodontic irrigants should ideally be delivered near working length. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of the EndoVac irrigation system and needle irrigation to debride root canals at 1 and 3 mm from working length. One tooth of each matched pair was instrumented and irrigated by using the EndoVac, which uses negative pressure to deliver irrigating solutions to working length. The other tooth of the matched pair was instrumented and irrigated with a 30-gauge ProRinse irrigating needle. All teeth were irrigated with sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) for a predetermined amount of time, and total volume of irrigant used was recorded. After instrumentation and irrigation, the teeth were fixed, decalcified, and sectioned at 1 mm and 3 mm from working length. Serial sections were made and digitally photographed. The amount of remaining debris was determined as a percentage of the area of the canal lumen. Remaining debris and total irrigant were analyzed by using the Wilcoxon signed rank test at the 5% confidence level. At the 1-mm level, significantly less debris was found in the EndoVac group (p=0.0347). At the 3-mm level, there was no significant difference between groups. Significantly more irrigant was delivered with the EndoVac (p<0001). This study showed significantly better debridement at 1 mm from working length by using the EndoVac compared with needle irrigation.
Comparison of wound irrigation and tangential hydrodissection in bacterial clearance of contaminated wounds: results of a randomized, controlled clinical study.	Thorough irrigation of contaminated or infected traumatic and open surgical wounds is considered standard practice. High-power pulse lavage is frequently used to facilitate the removal of surface contaminants and bacteria but studies to compare the results of various irrigation techniques are limited. The purpose of this randomized, controlled clinical study was to compare the ability of a high-pressure parallel waterjet (pressure range 5,025 to 7,360 psi) to pulse lavage (pressure 40 psi) in reducing wound bacterial counts. The higher velocity instrument utilizes a waterjet oriented parallel to the surface of the wound and can be used to cut and remove necrotic tissues. After obtaining informed consent, 21 patients who presented with open surgical and traumatic wounds were randomly assigned to high-pressure parallel waterjet (n = 12) or pulse lavage (n = 9). Pre- and post irrigation tissue culture results showed an average decrease in absolute bacterial counts of 90.8% in the high-pressure parallel waterjet and 86.9% in the pulse lavage group. The difference between the two treatment groups was not statistically significant. The results of this study confirm that cleansing contaminated or infected acute wounds using high pressure (at least 15 psi) reduces wound bacterial counts. Studies to compare the clinical outcomes of various irrigation techniques and pressure ranges are warranted and the potential benefit of selective debridement using the high-pressure parallel waterjet should be investigated.
Steam pops during irrigated radiofrequency ablation: feasibility of impedance monitoring for prevention.	Steam pops are a risk of irrigated radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFA) and may cause cardiac perforation. Data to guide radiofrequency (RF) energy titration to avoid steam pops are limited.
Endoscopic sinus surgery: evolution and technical innovations.	Prior to the introduction of functional endoscopic sinus surgery, several surgeons had begun to use telescopes to perform surgical procedures in the nose and sinuses. However, the central concepts of functional endoscopic sinus surgery evolved primarily from Messerklinger's endoscopic study of mucociliary clearance and endoscopic detailing of intranasal pathology. The popularity of a combination of endoscopic ethmoidectomy plus opening of secondarily involved sinuses grew rapidly during the latter part of the twentieth century, and endoscopic intranasal techniques began to expand to deal with pathology other than inflammation. We present a review of the evolution of knowledge regarding the pathogenesis of inflammatory sinus disease since that point in time, and of the impact that this has had on the management of inflammatory sinus disease. We also detail the technological advances that have allowed endoscopic intranasal techniques to expand and successfully treat other pathology, including skull base and orbital disease. In addition, we describe evolving technologies which may further influence development within this field.
Technologies, techniques and tactics for micro-incision cataract surgery]	Ultra-sound (US) phaco-emulsification is currently developing from a small incision to a micro-incision cataract surgery (MICS). Improvements in machine technologies with new US delivery modes with better control of irrigation and aspiration, with smaller phacotips and sleeves and with new intraocular lenses and injector systems for implantations through incisions less than 2 mm wide. Therefore, the most suitable method for surgery can be selected for each individual eye situation. Further improvements of intra-ocular lenses for implantation through incisions less than 2 mm wide would be desirable.
The effectiveness of passive ultrasonic irrigation on intraradicular Enterococcus faecalis biofilms in extracted single-rooted human teeth.	To compare the efficacy of passive ultrasonic irrigation with 1% sodium hypochlorite, with that of conventional syringe irrigation with 1% sodium hypochlorite, on intraradicular Enterococcus faecalis biofilms in extracted single-rooted human teeth.
Comparison of the antimicrobial efficacy of irrigation using the EndoVac to endodontic needle delivery.	The purpose of this investigation was to compare the antimicrobial efficacy of root canal irrigation with the EndoVac (Discus Dental, Culver City, CA) to endodontic needle irrigation in the apical 5 mm of root canals infected with Enterococcus faecalis.
The "all-seeing needle": initial results of an optical puncture system confirming access in percutaneous nephrolithotomy.	In percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL), the best possible way to access the collecting system is still a matter of debate. There is little possibility of correcting a suboptimal access.
The influence of the ultrasonic intensity on the cleaning efficacy of passive ultrasonic irrigation.	It is not clear whether increasing the ultrasonic intensity would enhance the cleaning efficacy of passive ultrasonic irrigation (PUI) inside a root canal. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the ultrasonic intensity on PUI to remove dentin debris and whether there is any lateral effect beyond the ultrasonic tip.
Postoperative analgesia of newborns using local anesthetic administered through wound irrigation catheter of permanent action]	The analysis of publications is devoted to the application of skin conductance monitoring in anesthesiology and intensive care. Rates of skin conductance (baseline values, the amplitude and frequency of the waves) are closely linked with the state of the sympathic nervous system. According to their dynamics it is possible to judge on the pain and stress in patients with whom the contact is difficult: newborns, infants, patients of all age groups during general anesthesia and in critical condition. According to published data monitoring skin conductance showed itself as a sensitive and promising method to identify and determine the severity of pain in all age groups, approaching by its characteristics the theses of the pain assessment perfect tool.
Removal of gutta-percha from root canals using the self-adjusting file.	The aim of this study was to compare the percentage of the residual gutta-percha-occupied area (PRGPA) in root canals after retreatment using ProTaper retreatment files (Dentsply Maillefer, Ballaigues, Switzerland) with or without the additional use of Self-Adjusting Files (SAFs; ReDent-Nova, Ra'anana, Israel).
A novel device to improve colon cleanliness during colonoscopy.	Effective colonoscopy depends on adequate visualization of the intestine, which might be ensured by intraprocedural use of a cleansing device. We investigated the performance of a novel endoscopic device with regard to cleanliness, safety, and tolerability during colonoscopy, compared with standard cleansing.
A novel system for the improvement of colonic cleansing during colonoscopy.	Suboptimal bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy impairs the efficacy and safety of the procedure. A new system for intracolonic cleansing has been developed, which includes a disposable catheter device that is inserted through the working channel of a standard colonoscope and an irrigation unit with predefined pressure and flow rate. The aim of the current study was to assess the safety and efficacy of this novel system for the improvement of bowel cleansing during colonoscopy. A total of 42 patients with suboptimal bowel preparation were systematically allocated, in a 1:1 ratio, to either the study group (JetPrep system, n = 21) or the control group (syringe irrigation, n = 21). The cleansing efficacy was evaluated using a segmental scoring scale to rate the bowel preparation level before and after irrigation. One patient from the study group was excluded from the efficacy analysis due to treatment with both techniques. The JetPrep system was significantly superior to syringe irrigation (P = 0.0001). No adverse events were reported. This study suggests that the safety profile of the JetPrep system is comparable to standard irrigation and shows that the device significantly improves suboptimal bowel preparation.
Cleaning the apical third of curved canals after different irrigation protocols.	This study evaluated the protocols of sonic and vacuum irrigation regarding the capacity of debris removal from root canal systems. Canal preparations were carried out on 30 mandibular first molars using the ProTaper Universal System. Teeth were divided into two experimental groups (n=15): Group 1: sonic irrigation and Group 2: vacuum irrigation protocol. Subsequently, the mesial roots were sectioned and observed by stereomicroscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Three independent examiners evaluated images of the apical thirds according to the following scores: 1= small presence of debris, 2= moderate presence of debris, and 3= dense presence of debris. Data were analyzed with ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis tests (α=0.05). Comparison among the groups revealed that at the apical third, the root halves of Group 1 had significantly less surface debris (p=0.002) than those of Group 2. However, at 2 mm from the working length, Group 2's specimens showed less remaining debris in approximately 75% of the analyzed root canals. At the whole apical third, the sonic irrigation protocol removed significantly more debris than the vacuum protocol. However, in the region at 2 mm from the working length, the second irrigation method demonstrated a better performance.
Weight of apically extruded debris following use of two canal instrumentation techniques and two designs of irrigation needles.	To compare the weight of apically extruded debris associated with canal shaping using K-files, and the Revo-S system using two different needle tips, open-ended and side-vented.
Comparison of irrigant penetration up to working length and into simulated lateral canals using various irrigating techniques.	To evaluate the effect of an apical negative pressure system, a passive ultrasonic irrigation system and a combination of both apical negative pressure and passive ultrasonic irrigation on the penetration of the irrigating contrast solution (ICS) up to working length and into simulated lateral canals.
Occurrence of steam pops during irrigated RF ablation: novel insights from microwave radiometry.	The disparity between catheter and tissue temperatures during irrigated RF ablation frustrates one's ability to predict steam pops. Microwave radiometry allows for "volumetric" temperature assessment-i.e., within a circumscribed volume around the catheter tip-permitting, direct assessment of temperature during ablation. The aim of this study was to examine (i) the ability of microwave radiometry to predict steam pops, and (ii) compare this to traditional parameters such as power, catheter temperature, and impedance.
Ablation effect indicated by impedance fall is correlated with contact force level during ablation for atrial fibrillation.	Previous studies have validated the use of impedance fall as a measure of the effects of ablation. We investigated whether catheter-to-tissue contact force correlated with impedance fall during atrial fibrillation ablation.
Radiofrequency ablation at low irrigation flow rates using a novel 12-hole gold open-irrigation catheter.	High irrigation rates during radiofrequency (RF) ablation may cause fluid overload and limit lesion size. This in vivo animal study assessed the safety and efficacy of RF ablation at low irrigation rates using a novel 12-hole gold catheter.
Evaluating the automated Thermedx Fluid Management System in a ureteroscopy model.	The Thermedx Fluid Management System (TFMS) is an automated pressurized irrigation system that allows concurrent temperature control. Developed for use in multiple surgical specialties, it provides settings specific to several endoscopic urologic procedures. The objective of this study was to critically appraise the functional characteristics and precision of the device regarding irrigation warming, pressurization, and flow during semirigid ureteroscopy.
Traditional and contemporary techniques for optimizing root canal irrigation.	Canal irrigation during root canal treatment is an important component of chemo-mechanical debridement of the root canal system. Traditional syringe irrigation can be enhanced by activating the irrigant to provide superior cleaning properties. This activation can be achieved by simple modifications in current technique or by contemporary automated devices. Novel techniques are also being developed, such as the Self-adjusting File (Re-Dent-Nova, Ra'anana, Israel), Ozone (Healozone, Dental Ozone, London, UK), Photoactivated Disinfection and Ultraviolet Light Disinfection. This paper reviews the techniques available to enhance traditional syringe irrigation, contemporary irrigation devices and novel techniques, citing their evidence base, advantages and disadvantages.
Effect of a chemotherapeutic agent delivered by an oral irrigation device on plaque, gingivitis, and subgingival microflora.	Sixty-six adults were examined in a double-bind study which examined the effect of an antimicrobial agent delivered by an oral irrigating device. Each subject received a randomized half mouth dental prophylaxis. The Gingival Index, gingival crevicular fluid volume, Plaque Index, Modified Papillary Bleeding Index, probing pocket depth, and probing attachment levels were determined at baseline, 3 weeks, and 6 weeks. The composition of the subgingival microflora in the prophied and non-prophied quadrants was examined by phase contrast microscopy and by immunofluorescence. This study demonstrates that an antimicrobial product delivered by an oral irrigating device could result in significant reductions in plaque, bacterial cell counts, and gingival bleeding and may, therefore, be an effective adjunct to normal oral hygiene.
Mechanical aspiration of hematomas in an in vitro model.	A modified Nucleotome (Surgical Dynamics, San Leandro, California) was used to aspirate blood clot in an in vitro model of intracerebral hematoma. This machine was successful in removing the clot at a reasonably rapid rate. It aspirates normal rat brain far more slowly. It therefore shows promise for being effective and safe in removing intracerebral hematomas in humans.
Clinical effects on chronic periodontitis of a simplified system of oral hygiene including subgingival pulsated jet irrigation with chlorhexidine.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of a simplified system of oral hygiene, comprising Bass brushing, scaling, root planing and subgingival irrigation using a pulsated monojet oral irrigator, in patients with chronic periodontitis. After initial assessment, patients received scaling, root planing and instruction in Bass brushing and in use of a pulsated jet oral irrigator (Water Pik + Imax attachment) to irrigate subgingivally. 11 patients with 262 approximal periodontal pockets used 0.02% chlorhexidine (CH), or a placebo as the irrigating solution once daily for 28 days. Plaque index (PlI), sulcus bleeding index (SBI), and probing pocket depth (PPD) were assessed on days 0, 28, 56 and 84. Within procedure comparisons for all groups showed that the regime was highly effective in reducing PlI, SBI and PPD, improvements being maintained at least until day 84. Between procedure comparisons showed that benefits were improved only marginally by the use of 0.02% CH as the irrigation fluid. The patients found the procedure pleasant and neither injuries nor staining were noted during the study. It was concluded that this simplified oral hygiene system was effective in reducing periodontal inflammation and pocket depth, although no significant added benefit with 0.02% CH was apparent. The technique may be useful in patients who cannot achieve high levels of routine mechanical oral hygiene, particularly interdentially. The effects of using higher concentrations of chlorhexidine should be investigated.
A controlled clinical trial of whole gut lavage as a method of bowel preparation for colonic operations.	In a prospective randomized clinical trial, whole gut lavage was evaluated against conventional mechanical cleansing for colonic operations. The lavage took less time to perform, was better tolerated by patients, and resulted in more satisfactory preparation as judged by frequency of collapsed intestines. There was no difference in the outcome in the two series as measured by wound infection rate and length of hospitalization. It is concluded that whole gut lavage is as good as conventional mechanical cleansing but surpasses the latter in logistic advantages.
Comparison of gastric lavage and thoracic cavity lavage in the treatment of severe hypothermia in dogs.	A study was undertaken to compare warm gastric (Group 1) and closed thoracic cavity (Group 2) lavage for rewarming severely hypothermic dogs. Adult mongrel dogs were monitored by intra-arterial catheter, central venous catheter, and ECG, and by central venous, esophageal, and rectal temperature probes. Animals were externally cooled to an average of 21.2 C using ice bags. Eight Group 1 and eight Group 2 animals underwent continuous warm saline gastric or closed thoracic cavity lavage, respectively, using afferent and efferent nasogastric and thoracostomy tubes. No animal suffered ventricular fibrillation during tube placement. The closed lavage system consisted of a high-efficiency heat exchanger, a roller pump infusion device, and a heat exchange fluid bath. The lavage fluid circulated at a flow rate of 550 mL/min and a temperature of 39 C. Thoracic lavage animals were followed clinically for 24 hours for evidence of complications, then euthanized and autopsied. The mean time required to rewarm the animals 10 C by central venous temperature probe was 210.9 +/- 18.6 minutes for the gastric group and 99.3 +/- 23.0 minutes for the thoracic group (P less than .001). Rectal temperature consistently lagged behind central venous temperature during both the cooling and rewarming phases in both treatment groups. All of the thoracic lavage animals made an uneventful recovery. Continuous warm saline thoracic cavity lavage for core rewarming of severely hypothermic dogs is more effective than gastric lavage, and appears to be safe.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phacoemulsification devices: a consumer's update.	This report extends a previous paper on the various characteristics of the most popular phacoemulsification devices. An evaluation of 11 devices by ten different manufacturers was attempted. Only five manufacturers of six devices agreed to critical evaluation or reevaluation. As in the previous report, the devices were compared for level of patient safety, dependability, efficiency, ease of usage, and operating cost for the first 1,000 cases. At the completion of this study, we ranked the nine devices evaluated over the past 17 months as follows: (1) United Surgical (Optikon) Systems Plus, (2) Optical Micro Systems (OMS), (3) United Surgical (Optikon) Phacotron, (4) CooperVision 10,000, (5) Site XTR, (6) CooperVision KCP, (7) CooperVision 9001, (8) Phakosystems CES 4000 and (9) United Sonics. To enhance the usefulness of this consumer's guide, we asked 40 experienced cataract surgeons what they wanted in the "ideal" phacoemulsification device. The opinions of 27 who responded are included.
The use of bronchofibroscopy in intensive care]	The bronchofibroscope has enabled the exploration of new avenues of diagnosis and treatment in intensive-care medicine. Its proper use depends on correct indication and conscientious and careful maintenance. This paper presents, first of all, the most essential technical and maintenance measures required in handling the bronchofibroscope. This is followed by a detailed description of the therapeutic use of the instrument in bronchial lavage with instillation of salbutamol, and of the more recent methods of broncho-alveolar lavage and high-frequency ventilation. Finally, indications for bronchofibroscopy in surgery and internal medicine and as an intubation aid are described.
Isolation and partial characterization of equine alveolar macrophages.	A device was constructed from an equine nasogastric tube, polyethylene tubing, and a 3-way stopcock and used to lavage the lungs of anesthetized ponies. The technique was safe and atraumatic in that 6.4 to 19.7 X 10(7) purified alveolar macrophages were removed from the lungs without harm to the ponies or contamination of the samples with blood. Studies of these highly purified cell suspensions revealed a mean viability of 85% as assessed by eosin dye exclusion with a mean recovery (+/- SD) of 12.5 +/- 4.8 X 10(7) pulmonary alveolar macrophages/pony.
Prevention of endothelial damage during preparation of saphenous veins for bypass grafting.	Abundant experimental evidence indicates that damage to vascular endothelium decreases intimal fibrinolytic activity, causes mural platelet and fibrin deposition, encourages proliferation of the exposed subintimal fibrocytes and smooth muscle cells, and increases endothelial permeability. These processes lead to thrombosis, subendothelial hyperplasia, or accelerated atherosclerosis. We have demonstrated in monkeys that distention of veins at high pressures (700 mm Hg), as commonly done clinically in preparation for coronary bypass, causes severe damage to the endothelium (as seen by scanning electron microscopy), and increased lipid uptake by the vein wall. The endothelium of veins distended at lower pressures (300-400 mm Hg) was not significantly different from that of undistended veins. Because of the potential late consequences of early endothelial damage to vein grafts, distention of veins before grafting to overcome spasm and to identify leaks must be done at controlled pressures. A convenient balloon device has been developed which limits the maximum pressure that can be applied when the vein is dilated.
Instruments and equipment used in operative laparoscopy.	Successful operative laparoscopy is dependent on the proper use and knowledge of a variety of appropriate surgical equipment. This chapter describes cameras, light sources, videos, video positioning, operating tables, anaesthesia, insufflators, laparoscopes, trocars, irrigators, forceps, scissors, electrosurgical instruments, lasers, suturing, staples and uterine manipulators. Knowledge of the best choice and proper use of instruments has a more important role in performing operative laparoscopy than laparotomy.
Nonsurgical uterine stage preimplantation embryo collection from the common marmoset.	A nonsurgical technique for the recovery of uterine stage preimplantation embryos was developed for the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In 54 flush attempts, using 19 different animals, 54 morphologically normal embryos, seven unfertilized oocytes or degenerate embryos, and five empty zonae pellucidae were recovered, giving a recovery rate of 1.0 embryo per flush or 1.2 ovulation products per flush. Because the ovarian cycles of common marmosets can be synchronized with prostaglandin PGF2 alpha, multiple marmosets can be flushed in a short period, providing age-matched embryos for controlled experiments.
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery using a newly designed multifunctional bipolar cutting and monopolar coagulating instrument.	In order to save time for changing instruments and minimize thermal damage in underlying tissue caused by monopolar high frequency in transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM), we have developed a new electrosurgical instrument, in which four functions are integrated: bipolar cutting, monopolar coagulation, suction and irrigation. The new device and the conventional monopolar knife were tested during both in vitro and in vivo experiments to compare the thermal alterations and effects on operating time. In vitro experiments demonstrated that the extent of thermal alterations created by bipolar cutting was less than in the case of monopolar cutting in the fresh porcine liver and bovine rectum. The mean severity scores for carbonization, coagulation and vacuolization in the resected mucosae obtained during in vivo animal operations by the bipolar procedure were 2.09, 2.27 and 1.36, respectively, whereas those obtained using the monopolar technique were 2.64, 2.82 and 2.36, respectively. The new device required an average operation time of 673.5 seconds, whereas the conventional setup required 701.9 seconds to resect the same diameter of rectal mucosa. Reduced operation time with the new device was mainly attributable to the reduced time needed for changing the instruments for hemostasis. The decreased thermal damage to the underlying bowel wall produced by the bipolar procedure should reduce the incidence of such operative complications in TEM (Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery, developed in 1983 by Buess, Theis and Hutterer) as perforation, dehiscence in the suture line or post-polypectomy coagulation syndrome. By quickly switching between the multiple functions of this new device a clear operative field can always be achieved, thus decreasing operation time and bleeding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bipolar electrocautery is a vital component of an efficient, integrated hydro-dissection system.	The author describes a new, unique, integrated suction-irrigation system for hydrodissection with bipolar instrumentation which has significantly facilitated the performance of advanced pelviscopic surgery on 350 patients in the department of gynecology between November 1, 1990 and October 31, 1992.
Pneumatically controlled bipolar cutting instrument.	A multifunctional instrument for transanal endoscopic microsurgery is presented. This instrument combines the functions of cutting, coagulation, suction and/or rinsing. The automatically effected pneumatic control of the functional elements of such an instrument can improve its serviceability not only with regard to safety but also to its ergonomic features. This example also serves to point out the advantages such an instrument can offer for the logical linkage between various functions and for the devices needed for this purpose. The aim in developing such instruments is to provide the surgeon with instruments enabling him to control even technically demanding operations.
A simple method of bronchoalveolar lavage.	Twenty-eight ventilated paediatric intensive care patients, mean age 4.1 +/- 4 years, who had had a simple method of nonbronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage (NB-BAL) performed were reviewed. The NB-BAL technique involved blindly wedging a 5 or 8F infant feeding catheter endobronchially and lavaging one millilitre per kg saline using a syringe. Adequate samples were collected in 87% of the NB-BAL specimens. In two of the four inadequate specimens, Pneumocystis carinii was still able to be identified. Additional information not obtained from the tracheal aspirate culture was seen in 71% of the NB-BAL samples. One-third of the patients also had a bronchoscopic BAL or a lung biopsy performed and the culture results were all identical to those obtained from NB-BAL. No significant complications were seen. Oxygenation and ventilation were not altered by the technique. We conclude that NB-BAL performed using a syringe and infant feeding catheter is a simple and cheap method that produces good alveolar samples in the majority of cases.
The use of inflow-outflow drainage after cerebral operations]	The paper provides strong evidence for the use of inflow-outflow drainage after brain operations and presents an analysis of 255 cerebral operations using various draining modes. The inflow-outflow drainage after brain operations is found to be promising in terms of clinical manifestations. The authors propose their own draining tube for inflow-outflow drainage. A comprehensive macro- and microscopic study of dialysis fluid is recommended. The presence of visible impurities in the dialysate, daily mass of cerebral detritus and the functional activity of granulocytes and mononuclear cells were assessed. A significant early sign has been identified when the inflow-outflow drainage system was applied during occurring local infectious complications by analysing the adhesive properties of mononuclear and polynuclear phagocytes of the dialysate.
Pulsed oral irrigation in the management of inflammatory periodontal diseases.	While subgingival scaling and root planing are effective at removing plaque, the use of periodic subgingival irrigation with a antimicrobial solution could be a useful adjunct. This paper initially discusses the management of inflammatory periodontal diseases in general, covering current mechanical therapy and chemical antimicrobials, before describing pulsed oral irrigation in more detail.
Hot water irrigation in the treatment of posterior epistaxis]	Tamponade treatment in epistaxis is painful and the patient needs hospitalisation. Irrigation with hot water was introduced as a treatment of epistaxis 100 years ago. This study compares the two treatments with respect to effect, recurrence, pain, and length of hospital stay. Forty-four consecutive patients with posterior epistaxis were randomized to receive treatment with either hot water (HWI) or tamponade. In the group of patients treated with HWI, the treatment had to be stopped in seven patients (33%) because of lack of cooperation; nine patients (43%) could be discharged from hospital with no need for further treatment, whereas five patients (24%) had recurrent epistaxis requiring additional tamponade treatment. Among patients treated with tamponade, 14 patients (61%) could be discharged from hospital with no need for further treatment, while nine patients (39%) had recurrent epistaxis requiring additional tamponade treatment. Compared with the tamponade treatment, HWI is almost as effective, the hospital stay is shorter, and the treatment is significantly less painful.
Erbium laser ablation of dental hard tissue: effect of water cooling.	Several lasers have been explored for hard dental tissue applications; used alone they have resulted in potentially harmful temperature increases in the pulp chamber.
Percutaneous cecostomy: a new technique in the management of fecal incontinence.	A pilot study on the percutaneous introduction of a cecostomy tube for colonic irrigations in the treatment of children with fecal incontinence is described. The results were good, and the technique is recommended for certain patients.
