Two-substrate association with the 20S proteasome at single-molecule level.	The bipartite structure of the proteasome raises the question of functional significance. A rational design for unraveling mechanistic details of the highly symmetrical degradation machinery from Thermoplasma acidophilum pursues orientated immobilization at metal-chelating interfaces via affinity tags fused either around the pore apertures or at the sides. End-on immobilization of the proteasome demonstrates that one pore is sufficient for substrate entry and product release. Remarkably, a 'dead-end' proteasome can process only one substrate at a time. In contrast, the side-on immobilized and free proteasome can bind two substrates, presumably one in each antechamber, with positive cooperativity as analyzed by surface plasmon resonance and single-molecule cross-correlation spectroscopy. Thus, the two-stroke engine offers the advantage of speeding up degradation without enhancing complexity.
Proteomics analysis of Thermoplasma acidophilum with a focus on protein complexes.	Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) and MALDI-TOF MS were used to obtain a global view of the cytoplasmic proteins expressed by Thermoplasma acidophilum. In addition, glycerol gradient ultracentrifugation coupled to 2DE-MALDI-TOF MS analysis was used to identify subunits of macromolecular complexes. With the 2DE proteomics approach, over 900 spots were resolved of which 271 proteins were identified. A significant number of these form macromolecular complexes, among them the ribosome, proteasome, and thermosome, which are expressed at high levels. In the glycerol gradient heavy fractions, 10 as yet uncharacterized proteins (besides the well known ribosomal subunits, translation initiation factor eIF-6-related protein, elongation factor 1, and DNA-dependent RNA polymerase) were identified that are putative building blocks of protein complexes. These proteins belong to the categories of hypothetical or conserved hypothetical proteins, and they are present in the cytosol at low concentrations. Although these proteins exhibit homology to known sequences, their structures, subunit compositions, and biological functions are not yet known.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of the Thermoplasma acidophilum 20S proteasome in complex with protein substrates.	The 20S proteasome is a 700 kDa barrel-shaped proteolytic complex that is traversed by an internal channel which widens into three cavities: two antechambers and one central chamber. Entrance to the complex is restricted by the narrow opening of the channel, which only allows unfolded substrates to reach the active sites located within the central cavity. The X-ray structures of 20S proteasomes from different organisms with and without inhibitors bound have led to a detailed knowledge of their structure and proteolytic function. Nevertheless, the mechanisms that underlie substrate translocation into the 20S proteasome and the role of the antechambers remain elusive. To investigate putative changes within the proteasome that occur during substrate translocation, ;host-guest' complexes between the Thermoplasma acidophilum 20S proteasomes and either cytochrome c (cyt c) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) were produced and crystallized. Orthorhombic crystals belonging to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 116, b = 207, c = 310 A (cyt c) and a = 116, b = 206, c = 310 A (GFP), were formed and X-ray diffraction data were collected to 3.4 A (cyt c) and 3.8 A (GFP) resolution.
Engineered Thermoplasma acidophilum factor F3 mimics human aminopeptidase N (APN) as a target for anticancer drug development.	Human aminopeptidase N (hAPN) is an appealing objective for the development of anti-cancer agents. The absence of mammalian APN experimental structure negatively impinges upon the progression of structure-based drug design. Tricorn interacting factor F3 (factor F3) from Thermoplasma acidophilum shares 33% sequence identity with hAPN. Engineered factor F3 with two point directed mutations resulted in a protein with an active site identical to hAPN. In the present work, the engineered factor F3 has been co-crystallized with compound D24, a potent APN inhibitor introduced by our lab. Such a holo-form experimental structure helpfully insinuates a more bulky pocket than Bestatin-bound Escherichia coli APN. This evidence discloses that compound D24 targetting the structure of E. coli APN cannot bind to the activity cleft of factor F3 with high affinity. Thus, there is a potential risk of inefficiency to design hAPN targeting drug while using E. coli APN as the target model. We do propose here now that engineered factor F3 can be employed as a reasonable alternative of hAPN for drug design and development.
