Thermographic detection of heat radiation in caloric vestibular function tests]	Since Bárány; caloric irrigations in the external ear canal have been used for unilateral stimulation of the peripheral vestibular system. However, the mechanism of heat transfer from the auditory canal to the vestibular organ is not completely known. From the physical point of view, three mechanisms may be discussed: heat conduction via the bone, convection via the middle ear gas, or radiation. Feldmann et al. (1991) singled out radiation as a very important factor in this regard. Using high-resolution thermography, we were able to "see" radiation almost directly in temporal bone experiments.
Thermographic visualization of changes in peripheral perfusion during acupuncture]	Using infrared thermography, the present study evaluated the effects of changes in peripheral perfusion occurring during the initial phase of manual acupuncture (Nei Guan, Qu Chi) under standardised conditions. Thermographic recordings (AGEMA 570 PRO, Flir Systems Inc., Portland, USA) were used to assess superficial changes in temperature in the hands of 6 normal subjects (mean age 33.3 +/- 7.5 years, 3 females, 3 males). Baseline status, acupuncture needling and stimulation were analysed in a single session under controlled conditions (24 degrees C ambient temperature). In all subjects a significant (p = 0.015) short-term cooling effect on superficial hand temperature occurred following needle placement. Thereafter, acupuncture stimulation produced different generalised long-lasting effects. In three subjects a warming effect was seen (increase > 2 degrees C) while in the other three subjects the temperature decreased in all fingers and in the wrist.
Stereotaxic implant microinjection and temperature recording system for rabbits.	Modification of standard rabbit stereotaxic apparatus to allow adjustment of the tooth bar in the vertical plane may be accomplished by simple machining of a standard laboratory clamp and aluminum rod. The modification greatly increases speed of head positioning for implant surgery. Machining the chrome and brass luer hub of standard stainless steel hypodermic needles to the described configurations produces improved guide tubes for brain temperature recording and cannulae for brain microinjections. Data from hypothalamic injection of prostaglandin E1 and records of resulting changes in brain temperature support the effectiveness of the methods described.
Clinical thermometry: possible causes and potential solutions to electronic, digital thermometer inaccuracies.	Previous research has indicated that the improvements in safety, speed, and ease of use of the newer electronic, digital oral and tympanic clinical thermometers have been offset by a loss in accuracy and reliability when compared with the traditional glass/mercury oral clinical thermometers. The purpose of this study was to determine possible causes of the relative lack of accuracy and reliability in these thermometers and suggest logical potential solutions. Evidence has been reviewed, which suggests that problems with the tympanic thermometers are the result of the range of normal anatomical variability. The combination of an otoscope with the tympanic thermometers is suggested and discussed as a potential solution. Evidence has been reviewed, which suggests that problems with the newer oral thermometers are the results of the size of the temperature sensors and the speed with which they respond. The small sensor size results in variability in placement relative to the primary heat source. The speed of sensor response results in too great a sensitivity to local, acute vasomotor activity (clinical temperature noise). Potential solutions, including an increase in sensor size and a reduction in response speed are discussed.
Effect of heat on phycoerythrin fluorescence: Influence of thermal exposure on the fluorescence emission of R-phycoerythrin.	The goal of this work was to measure and model the effect of thermal exposure on the fluorescence emission of R-phycoerythrin (R-PE). The long-term objective of our work is to assess the feasibility of encapsulating R-PE for use as the critical component of a time-temperature integrator (TTI) for ascertaining the degree of inactivation of food pathogens such as Salmonella. In this article we present a study to measure and model the thermally induced fluorescence emission decay of R-PE in several isothermal experiments. We used the isothermal data to determine the kinetic parameters, based on a general n(th) order reaction, and evaluated the utility of the resulting model by using it to predict R-PE fluorescence emission decay for several nonisothermal experiments based on published USDA safe harbor guidelines for cooked beef products. The transient experiments were conducted over the same temperature range used in the isothermal study. Very good agreement was obtained between theory and experiment at temperatures of 62.8 degrees C and above, although the model slightly underpredicted the extent of fluorescence emission decay at 60 degrees C. Our results indicate that R-PE fluorescence emission decay kinetics is well behaved and that the protein is a strong candidate for use as a time-temperature integrator.
In vitro infrared thermographic assessment of root surface temperature rises during thermafil retreatment using system B.	The purpose of this in vitro study was to measure the temperature rise on the outer root surface during retreatment of Thermafil using the System B HeatSource. Twenty extracted human maxillary premolars were filled with Thermafil with plastic carriers and divided into two groups of 10 teeth each. In group 1, Thermafil obturators were retrieved using System B HeatSource fitted with a medium plugger at a temperature of 225 degrees C. The plugger was placed first on the buccal, then on the lingual of the plastic carrier for 5 s each. This melted the gutta-percha and softened the plastic carrier. In group 2, Thermafil obturators were retrieved in the same manner except that the heated plugger was placed for 8 s. The temperature changes on the outer root surfaces were recorded using a thermal imaging camera. Thermafil retreatment in vitro using a System B HeatSource causes temperature rises ranging from 26.7 degrees C to 46.0 degrees C. This finding could possibly have implications for creating injury of the periodontal tissues.
Mechanical aspects of heartbeat reversal in pupae of Manduca sexta.	Pulsations of the dorsal vessel were investigated with new optocardiographic techniques based on the transmission and reflection of pulse-light through optic fibers. This noninvasive technique enabled simultaneous, in vivo multisensor recordings of the heartbeat without touching the pupal integument. There was a very regular heartbeat reversal with 3 distinctive phases: (a) a backward-oriented (retrograde) cardiac pulsation; (b) a forward-oriented (anterograde) pulsation with faster frequency; and (c) shorter or longer periods of temporary cardiac standstill that usually occurred after the termination of the anterograde phase. Occasionally, there were localized series of systolic cardiac contractions during the retrograde phase. Simultaneous recordings from the base and the tail of the abdomen revealed a reciprocal, "mirror image-like", quantitative relationship. The most intensive anterograde hemolymph flow occurred at the base while the most intensive retrograde flow occurred at the tail of the abdomen. The bi-directional switchovers of heartbeat (reversal) were occasionally associated with modifications during each of the unidirectional cardiac phases. Anterograde peristalsis showed a 2-fold higher frequency of pulsation in the thoracic aorta in comparison with the posterior parts of the heart. Thus, in addition to the "odd" peristaltic waves originating at the tail, there were intercallated "even" peristaltic waves originating in the middle of the abdomen. Both of them propagated hemolymph through the thoracic aorta into the head; the first waves took the hemolymph in from the distal end, while the second sucked it from the middle of the abdomen. The use of multiple optocardiographic sensors also enabled detection of cardiac pulsations on the opposite, ventral side of the body, within the ventral perineural sinus. The ventral side of the head showed only the presence of an anterograde pulse, whereas the ventral side of the tail exhibited a strong reciprocal retrograde phase and a very weak anterograde phase. These results explain why the existence of a periodic heartbeat reversal should be essential for circulatory functions at both extremities of the cylindrical insect body. In diapausing pupae, regular cycles of heartbeat reversal were substituted by prolonged periods of anterograde pulsation during the entire duration of bursts of CO2 release (average duration of the burst was 18-20 min, periodicity 5 to 18 h). The physiological nature of such feed-back correlation between heartbeat and metabolic CO2 production is not yet clear, because the anterograde heartbeat could be also induced by a number of nonspecific factors unrelated to CO2 (mechanical irritation, injury, injections, elevated temperature). During the postdiapause, developing pharate-adult stage, the correlation between CO2 and anterograde heartbeat completely disappeared. It has been concluded that regulation of insect heartbeat represents a highly coordinated, myogenic stereotype with inherent rhythmicity, which can be modified by a number of external and internal factors.
Infrared thermography and thermocouple mapping of radiofrequency renal ablation to assess treatment adequacy and ablation margins.	The primary disadvantage of renal tumor RF ablation is the inability to monitor the intraoperative propagation of the RF lesion with real-time imaging. We sought to assess whether adequately lethal temperatures are obtained at the margins of the intended ablation zone using laparoscopic thermography to monitor radiofrequency (RF) lesions in real time, thermocouple measurements, and histopathologic evaluation.
Sensor calibration and compensation using artificial neural network.	Artificial neural network (ANN) based inverse modeling technique is used for sensor response linearization. The choice of the order of the model and the number of the calibration points are important design parameters in this technique. An intensive study of the effect of the order of the model and number of calibration points on the lowest asymptotic root-mean-square (RMS) error has been reported in this paper. Starting from the initial value of the nonlinearity in the characteristics of a sensor and required RMS error, it is possible to quickly fix the order of the model and the number of calibration points required using results of this paper. The number of epochs needed to calibrate the sensor, and thereafter the epochs needed to recalibrate in event of sensitivity or offset drifts, are also presented to bring out the convergence time of the technique. More importantly, the advantages of the ANN technique over traditional regression based modeling are also discussed from the point of view of its advantage in hardware simplicity in microcontroller based implementation. Results presented in this paper would be of interest to instrumentation design engineers.
Temperature mapping of laser-induced hyperthermia in an ocular phantom using magnetic resonance thermography.	Laser-induced heating in an ocular phantom is measured with magnetic resonance thermography (MRT) using temperature-dependent phase changes in proton resonance frequency. The ocular phantom contains a layer of melanosomes isolated from bovine retinal pigment epithelium. The phantom is heated by the 806-nm output of a continuous wave diode laser with an irradiance of 2.4 to 21.6 W/cm2 in a beam radius of 0.8 or 2.4 mm, depending on the experiment. MRT is performed with a 2 T magnet, and a two-turn, 6-cm-diam, circular radio frequency coil. Two-dimensional temperature gradients are measured within the plane of the melanin layer, as well as normal to it, with a temperature resolution of 1 degrees C or better. The temperature gradients extending within the melanin layer are broader than those orthogonal to the layer, consistent with the higher optical absorption and consequent heating in the melanin. The temperature gradients in the phantom measured by MRT closely approximate the predictions of a classical heat diffusion model. Three-dimensional temperature maps with a spatial resolution of 0.25 mm in all directions are also made. Although the temporal resolution is limited in the prototype system (22.9 s for a single image "slice"), improvements in future implementations are likely. These results indicate that MRT has sufficient spatial and temperature resolution to monitor target tissue temperature during transpupillary thermotherapy in the human eye.
Microchip-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (microELISA) system with thermal lens detection.	A microchip-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (microELISA) system was developed and interferon-gamma was successfully determined. The system was composed of a microchip with a Y-shaped microchannel and a dam structure, polystyrene microbeads, and a thermal lens microscope (TLM). All reactions required for the immunoassay were done in the microchannel by successive introduction of a sample and regents. The enzyme reaction product, in a liquid phase, was detected downstream in the channel using the TLM as substrate solution was injected. The antigen-antibody reaction time was shortened by the microchip integration. The limit of the determination was improved by adopting the enzyme label. Moreover, detection procedures were greatly simplified and required time for the detection was significantly cut. The system has good potential to be developed as a small and automated high throughput analyzer.
A practical approach to thermography in a hyperthermia/magnetic resonance hybrid system: validation in a heterogeneous phantom.	This study investigates the feasibility and accuracy of noninvasive magnetic resonance (MR) monitoring for a system that includes a multiantenna applicator for part-body hyperthermia (SIGMA-Eye applicator, BSD-2000/3D) and a 1.5 Tesla MR tomograph (Siemens Magnetom Symphony).
Accuracy of parents in measuring body temperature with a tympanic thermometer.	It is now common for parents to measure tympanic temperatures in children. The objective of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of these measurements.
A temperature rise in the dental pulp during the electrothermal removal of ceramic brackets]	The aim of the present in-vitro study was to evaluate the changes in pulp temperature associated with thermal debonding of ceramic brackets using the Ceramic Debonding Unit (Dentaurum). In addition, several forms of false usage were simulated. Instead of thermoelements, the non-contact infrared thermography device SST/THETA 1000 (Heimann) was employed for the dynamic measurement of pulp temperature. Successful debonding after a single activation resulted in a maximal temperature change of 3 degrees C. These in vitro results indicate that the Ceramic Debonding Unit--properly applied--is gentle on the pulp tissue. If debonding fails, the increase in temperature is higher. The influence of differing bracket base morphologies and various resins on electrothermal debonding are discussed.
Are tympanic thermometers a source of cross-infection?	To find out if tympanic thermometers are a source of cross-infection in critical care and whether cleaning is effective.
Wet-bulb globe temperature index: a predictor of physiological strain in hot environments.	The readings of the natural wet-bulb (tnwb) and globe thermometer for computing Twbg index (indoors) were taken between 08.00 to 17.00 h at two-hour intervals in different work locations in the glass bangle and brassware industries. For assessing the physiological reliability of the Twbg index for heat stress, the radial pulse rate was monitored at two-hour intervals in 60 brassware workers and 77 glass bangle workers (mean ages: 25.3 +/- 8.8 and 28.1 +/- 5.7 years) belonging to various occupations exposed to thermal radiation for 9.3 +/- 8.5 and 11.2 +/- 4.8 years respectively. The mean values of Twbg index observed in the brassware and glass bangle industries were found to be almost of the same order (34.4 +/- 3.0 degrees C and 35.2 +/- 1.1 degrees C). The radiant heat seemed to make the most significant contribution to the environmental heat stress in these industries. The globe temperature near the main melting furnace was as high as 53.8 +/- 3.0 degrees C and 59.2 +/- 4.02 0C in the glass bangle and brassware industries respectively. It was, therefore, expected that the exposed workers would show pronounced physiological strain. Surprisingly the pulse rates of these workers did not indicate any significant physiological strain since the maximal pulse rates recorded did not exceed the safe limits of circulatory strain recommended by the WHO.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
New device and method for measuring thermal conductivity of thin-films.	Thermal sensitive paints (TSPs) are used for global nonintrusive detection of boundary layer transition in flow over the surface of wind tunnel research models. Since the transition is a transient process, the TSP should have a fast response characteristic. A low paint thermal conductivity is required for fast response. A thin-film thermal conductivity meter (TFTCM) was designed and built to measure thermal conductivity of the TSPs, which are typically between 50 and 150 microm thick. In this paper, the design and operating features of the TFTCM are described. Measurement of the thermal conductivity with this TFTCM of three standard thin-film low conductivity specimens, Kapton, Teflon, and Borofloat glass, showed good agreement with the manufacturer quoted values, thus validating the instrument and the procedure. Consistently repeatable values for thermal conductivity (k=0.41 +/- 0.02 W/m K) were also obtained for the TSP specimen (TSB-B, 75 microm) tested.
Traceability and calibration in temperature measurement: a clinical necessity.	Patient temperature is a fundamental physiological measurement used primarily for observation and diagnosis, for example during surgery, intensive care, recuperation, or treatment. A variety of thermometers are used clinically and these can be separated into two categories, either contact (oral thermometers, rectal thermometers and temporal strips), or non-contact (ear thermometers, temporal thermometers and thermal imagers). To have the maximum confidence in the clinical performance of the temperature measurement instrument it is strongly desirable that the device be traceably calibrated to the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90). Lack of traceable calibrations accredited to ISO17025 can lead to unreliability in temperature measurement and in some cases can have a deleterious effect on patient care. The National Physical Laboratory (NPL) maintains and disseminates the ITS-90 for contact and non-contact thermometry in the UK. The importance of accredited traceable calibrations and an outline of contact and non-contact thermometry standards are given here.
The vagaries of ear temperature assessment.	There have been a growing number of reports suggesting that ear temperature measurement is unreliable and by implication so is the device. Examination of the measurement site, the tympanic membrane (eardrum) and the walls of the external auditory meatus (ear canal) reveals that at least some of the unreliability might derive from poor aiming of the infrared thermometer: the ear canal walls have a lower temperature than the eardrum. Additionally, anatomical properties of the ear canal may increase the difficulty of aiming the thermometer at the eardrum. Furthermore, the rich vascularization, innervation and variations in skin properties (thickness, oil secretion and hair) along the length of the ear canal affect the black body-like nature of the structure. It is concluded that such factors are more likely underlying reasons for the difficulties in reliably reproducing temperatures from this site. We conclude that concerns should extend beyond the reliability of the device and there should be greater study of the measurement site. The argument extends to all sites chosen for clinical assessment of the patient, as previous studies of the alternative temperature measurement sites are also unfortunately few and tend to be lacking in scientific rigour.
Reliability of an infrared forehead skin thermometer for core temperature measurements.	The SensorTouch thermometer performs an infrared measurement of the skin temperature above the Superficial Temporal Artery (STA). This study evaluates the validity and the accuracy of the SensorTouch thermometer. Two experiments were performed in which the body temperature was measured with a rectal sensor, with an oesophageal sensor and with the SensorTouch. After entering a warm chamber the SensorTouch underestimated the core temperature during the first 10 minutes. After that, the SensorTouch was not significantly different from the core temperature, with an average difference of 0.5 degrees C (SD 0.5 degrees C) in the first study and 0.3 degrees C (SD 0.2 degrees C) in the second study. The largest differences between the SensorTouch and the core temperature existed 15 minutes after the start of the exercise. During this period the SensorTouch was significantly higher than the core temperature. The SensorTouch did not provide reliable values of the body temperature during periods of increasing body temperature, but the SensorTouch might work under stable conditions.
Radiothermometry in diagnosis of thyroid diseases]	Primary experience (177 patients) of diagnosis of thyroid gland diseases with radiothermography using microwave radiothermometer RTM-01-RES is analyzed. In unaffected thyroid gland there were no temperature differences between symmetric points of right and left lobe. Cancer of thyroid gland and toxic adenoma are characterized by higher internal temperature. High sensitivity of method and its simplicity are the reasons for use of radiothermography as screening method.
Tympanic temperature measurements: are they reliable in the critically ill? A clinical study of measures of agreement.	Accurate measurement of temperature is vital in the intensive care setting. A prospective trial was performed to compare the accuracy of tympanic, urinary, and axillary temperatures with that of pulmonary artery (PA) core temperature measurements.
A biocompatible microdevice for core body temperature monitoring in the early diagnosis of infectious disease.	The early diagnosis of microbial infection is critical to the clinical instigation of effective post-exposure prophylaxis or therapy. However, diagnosis of infection is often attempted only when there are overt clinical signs, and for some of the serious human pathogens, this may jeopardize the efficacy of therapy. We have used a miniaturised sealed, implantable transponder incorporating a calibrated temperature sensor with an external receiver system, to monitor core body temperature (Tc) remotely. We have observed early changes in the diurnal rhythm of Tc, after infection of mice with bacterial pathogens. Changes in Tc preceded overt clinical signs by 3-10 h following challenge with Yersinia pestis, which causes acute infection, In contrast, changes in Tc were detected 11 days before clinical signs in mice exposed to Burkholderia pseudomallei, which causes a chronic syndrome. Significantly, mice pre-vaccinated against Y.pestis infection showed only slight and transient disruption to the diurnal rhythm for Tc, in the absence of clinical signs, when challenged with 10(6) median lethal doses of Y.pestis. This remote monitoring technology could be used to monitor changes in more than one physiological parameter and extrapolation of these data to the clinic would define the available therapeutic window in which diagnosis and post-exposure prophylaxis could be instigated, after a suspected exposure.
Uncooled IR imaging using optomechanical detectors.	In this study, we present an uncooled infrared imaging detector using knife-edge filter optical readout method. The tilt angle change of each cantilever in a focal plane array (FPA) can be simultaneously detected with a resolution of 10(-5) degrees. A deformation magnifying substrate-free microcantilever unit is specially designed. The multi-fold legs of microcantilever are interval metal coated to form a thermal deformation magnifying structure. Thermal and thermomechanical performance of this microcantilever unit are modeled and analyzed. An FPA with 100 x 100 pixels is fabricated and thermal images of human body are obtained by this detector.
Theoretical and experimental investigation of the thermal resolution and dynamic range of CCD-based thermoreflectance imaging.	We demonstrate thermal imaging using a charge-coupled device (CCD) thermoreflectance lock-in technique that achieves a record temperature resolution of 18 mK, 44 dB below the nominal dynamic range of the camera (from 72 to 116 dB) for 10(5) periods of measurement. We show that the quantization limit of the CCD camera does not set the lower bound on the precision of the technique. We present a theoretical description of the measurement technique, accounting for the effects of noise and nonideal analog-to-digital conversion, resulting in analytic expressions for the probability distribution function of the measured signals, and allowing for explicit calculation of resolution and error bars. The theory is tested against parametrically varied measurements and can be applied to other sampled lock-in measurements. We also experimentally demonstrate sub-quantization-limit imaging on a well-characterized model system, joule heating in a silicon resistor. The accuracy of the resistor thermoreflectance measurement is confirmed by comparing the results with those of a standard 3omega measurement.
A novel multielemental scanning thermal analysis (MESTA) method for the identification and characterization of solid substances.	Identification and characterization of solid samples has been relatively difficult due to the limited separation techniques available. Reported here is the development of a multielemental scanning thermal analysis (MESTA) method that provides a simple, rapid, and sensitive alternative for routine examination of solid samples. A MESTA system heats up a sample in an enclosed quartz tube from ambient to 800 degree C at a constant heating rate and under a given atmosphere. The volatile components in the sample are carried to a high-temperature combustion tube where the C, N, and S are oxidized to their respective oxides and detected by the detectors. The result is the simultaneous C, N, and S thermograms of a sample that can be used as chemical signatures for identification and characterization purposes. Sample heating rate, oxygen content of the carrier gas, and the possible interactions among the ingredients of a sample would all affect the outcome of an analysis. These effects need to be understood for a specific application. The general instrumentation, technique, usefulness, and interpretation of the MESTA are presented with examples. The simplicity and cost-effectiveness of the MESTA make it a promising tool for routine chemical analysis of solid substances.
Thermal conductivity measurements of semitransparent single-walled carbon nanotube films by a bolometric technique.	We introduce a new technique for measurement of the thermal conductivity of ultrathin films of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) utilizing IR radiation as heat source and the SWNT film as thermometer. The technique is applied to study the temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity of an as-prepared SWNT film obtained in the electric arc discharge process and a film of purified SWNTs prepared by vacuum filtration. The interplay between thermal and electrical transport in SWNT networks is analyzed in relation to the type of intertube junctions and the possibility of optimizing the thermal and electrical properties of SWNT networks for specific applications is discussed.
A non invasive wearable sensor for the measurement of brain temperature.	As the thermoregulation centres are deep in the brain, the cerebral temperature is one of the most important markers of fever, circadian rhythms physical and mental activities. However due to a lack of accessibility, the brain temperature is not easily measured. The axillary, buccal, tympanic and rectal temperatures do not reflect exactly the cerebral temperature. Nevertheless the rectal temperature is used as probably the most reliable indicator of the core body temperature. The brain temperature can be measured using NMR spectroscopy, microwave radiometry, near infrared spectroscopy, ultra-sound thermometry. However none of those methods are amenable to long term ambulatory use outside of the laboratory or of the hospital during normal daily activities, sport, etc. The brain core temperature "BCT" sensor, developed by the Biomedical Microsensors dpt of LPM at INSA-Lyon is a flexible active sensor using "zero-heat-flow" principle. The sensor has been used for experimental measurement: brain temperature during mental activity, and in hospital for the study of circadian rhythms. The results are in agreement with the measurement by the rectal probe. There are 2 versions of this sensor: a non ambulatory for the use in hospitals, and an ambulatory version using teletransmission. We are working for improving the autonomy of the ambulatory version up to several days. This wearable biomedical sensor (WBS) can be used for circadian assessment for chronobiology studies and in medical therapies.
Evaluation of feature-based registration in dynamic infrared imaging for breast cancer diagnosis.	Dynamic infrared imaging has been proposed in literature as an interesting adjunctive technique to mammography in breast cancer diagnosis. For a correct analysis of the infrared image sequences, however, a preprocessing registration step may be fundamental. In this paper, we provide a first quantitative evaluation of the performances of registration on dynamic infrared images for this specific application. We propose an algorithm for the automatic control point localization and employ a feature-based piecewise linear registration approach. The quality of the image alignment is evaluated on a small sample of subjects, considering both alignment and localization errors. Results show that subject movement of up to five pixels is compensated, obtaining a subpixel error correction.
Thermal imaging aid for the blind.	To explore the efficacy of using a far infrared thermal camera with a haptic display to assist blind people in identifying humans, we performed experiments with a prototype device on five low-vision (functionally blind) subjects. Infrared allows for easy detection of human shape due to typically high contrast in temperatures from a person against their surrounding environment. Infrared cameras can be made small and inexpensive with uncooled microbolometer technology. Our study showed a great willingness by the blind subjects to use such a device after a short training session and both successful and unsuccessful operation. Future work will further develop the technology and undertake more expansive testing.
An all-ultrasound-based system for real-time monitoring and sonication of temperature change and ablation.	Previously, we introduced a new harmonic motion imaging (HMI) technique for simultaneous monitoring and generation of ultrasound therapy treatment using a single element focused-ultrasound and one pulse-echo transducer. The new HMI technique uses an amplitude-modulated beam (instead of using two beams) that has a stable focal zone for the applied harmonic radiation force. The harmonic radiation force was generated by a 4.68 MHz focused transducer and a 7.5 MHz pulse-echo transducer was used to acquire RF echoes. The RF echoes were recorded and used to estimate tissue displacements during sonication. The new HMI technique has been shown to provide tissue displacement information during ultrasound therapy. In this paper, a study on the temperature dependence of the new HMI method is presented. The sonication time used applied was approximately equal to 80 seconds at maximum acoustic intensity of 658 W/cm2 at the focus. The experiments were performed on bovine tissues in vitro. The results show that the temperature elevation at the focal zone during sonication rises rapidly until it reaches a temperature higher than 50 degrees C, which produces tissue damage. The new HMI technique provides temperature-related tissue displacement changes using the same transducer, which makes it simple for monitoring temperature rise and lesions formation during high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment.
Sensitive temperature gradiometer for use at low temperatures.	A device capable of very sensitive temperature gradient measurements in the presence of relatively large ambient temperature fluctuations is described. The device uses a pair of ''matched'' superconducting thin films in a bridge arrangement, with a SQUID magnetometer probe as the null detector.
Superconducting aluminum heat switch and plated press-contacts for use at ultralow temperatures.	We have measured the thermal conductivity of a 0.1-mm-thick Al foil in the normal and superconducting state down to 58 mK. At this temperature, our data give a ratio for the conductivities of k(n)/k(s)=1600 T(-2). They show that Al is a better material for a heat switch than the usually used superconductors because of its large k(n) and large Debye temperature (reducing the lattice conductivity k(s)). In addition, we describe the design of a heat switch and an excellent performing demountable press-contact between Al and Cu, both gold plated, as joint to the switch.
High precision Mössbauer furnace for 1100 K.	Detailed designs are given for a high precision Mössbauer furnace that may be used up to temperatures of 1100 K. With proper precautions the furnace designs described yield long-term temperature instability better than approximately 0.02 K and temperature inhomogeneity of better than 0.05 K.
Technique for the measurement of spatial vorticity distributions.	A method for measuring mean spatial vorticity content has been described for flows where the primary convective velocity (free stream) is larger than the mean crossflow components. Employing an ''X''-geometry hot-wire probe and linearized anemometer system in conjunction with a precision probe traversing mechanism, this relatively simple technique can be used to evaluate the circulation associated with various spatial contours. Errors associated with the technique are computed exactly and in simple linearized forms to illustrate its validity in a wide range of flows. A priori knowledge of the flow character and resultant careful selection of the integration paths for a given flow situation is observed to result in minimal measurement errors. Application to the problem of an isolated trailing vortex is presented as an example. Experiments at the trailing edge of a lifting wing confirm the accuracy of the method when compared with existing theories and other experimental data. The method can be extended to periodically driven unsteady flows using phase-lock techniques.
Probe and method for simultaneous measurements of ''true'' instantaneous temperature and three velocity components in turbulent flow.	In the measurement of turbulent flows the need has always existed to obtain correct instantaneous values of temperature and three components of velocity at a particular point. Many proposed lengthy approximate correction methods that attempt to account for ''nonlinear'' effects (cross contamination between different quantities) in hot-wire measurements cannot be considered satisfactory. The availability of powerful digital computers for theoretical and experimental studies has placed pressure on experimentalists to develop better probes and methods. This paper attempts to answer these pressures by describing the development of a special four-wire probe and a method of processing the obtained signals. The use of four 0.625-microm-diam sensors makes the probe practically interference free. The processing method is based on the simultaneous solution of four complete nonlinear response equations for the sensors, yielding in principle exact instantaneous values of velocity components and temperature. Additional features of the processing method include: instantaneous full correction for tunnel free stream velocity and temperature fluctuations, first-order correction for dc drifts of the signals during data acquisition, subtraction of all 60-Hz related noise, and correction for streamwise displacement of sensors based on instantaneous streamwise velocity.
The use of DNA molecular beacons as nanoscale temperature probes for microchip-based biosensors.	Today's biosensors and drug delivery devices are increasingly incorporating lithographically patterned circuitry that is placed within microns of the biological molecules to be detected or released. Elevated temperatures due to Joule heating from the underlying circuitry cannot only reduce device performance, but also alter the biological activity of such molecules (i.e. binding, enzymatic, folding). As a consequence, biochip design and characterization will increasingly require local measurements of the temperature and temperature gradients on the biofunctionalized surface. We have developed a technique to address this challenge based on the use of DNA molecular beacons as a nanoscale temperature probe. The surface of fused-silica chips with lithographically patterned, current-carrying gold rings have been functionalized with a layer of molecular beacons. We utilize the temperature dependence of the molecular beacons to calibrate the temperature at the center of the rings as a function of applied current from 25 to 50 degrees C. The fluorescent images of the rings reveal the extent of heating to the surrounding chip due to the applied current while resolving temperature gradients over length scales of less than 500nm. Finite element analysis and analytic calculations of the distribution of heat in the vicinity of the current-carrying rings agree well with the experimental results. Thus, molecular beacons are shown to be a viable tool for temperature calibration of micron-sized circuitry and the visualization of submicron temperature gradients.
Infrared tympanic thermography. A comparison of body temperature measured rectally and from the tympanic membrane]	Infrared tympanic thermography is a new method of measuring body temperature. We compared body temperature measured in the rectum and in the ear in 25 patients. The results reveal a difference of average +/- 0.3 degree C. We also measured the time used to perform the above procedures. We found that the preparation and completion procedures took on average two minutes and 50 seconds when the body temperature was measured in the rectum. Taking the temperature in the ear took on average 42 seconds. We found that this new method was an accurate and quick method to measure body temperature.
Standardisation of neurophysiological norm values. Relevance of the position of the heating element and the temperature measurement sensor.	At a "constant" temperature of 37 degrees C, we measured the influence of the position of the temperature measurement sensor and the infrared heating element on the nervous conduction velocity (NCV) and the delay in latency after paired stimulation (LPSS) of the sural nerve. Temperature differences of up to 6.2 degrees C resulted from alteration of four cm in position of the temperature measurement sensor and the infrared heating element. NCV in the test subjects changed from 54.2 + -4.5 to 57.8 + -4.0 m/sec and the LPSS from 4.0 + -2.2% to 2.0 + -1.0%. The patients showed an increase of NCV from 54.1 + -5.0 to 56.8 + -5.7 m/sec and a decrease of LPSS from 9.9 + -5.7% to 6.5 + -3.9%. Our investigation shows that even the position of the temperature measurement sensor and the infrared heating element form a very appreciable component of the standardization method and decide on normal values. The consistent implementation of these results for routine purposes restricts the range of error of neurophysiological measurements, as well as improving the reproducibility and relevance of borderline findings.
What is the evidence base for the assessment and evaluation of body temperature?	Measurement and management of body temperature is often based on traditionand personal ideas and beliefs rather than evidence based knowledge. This article summarises the literature to provide a guide to evidence based assessment and evaluation of body temperature in clinical practice.
Cross-talk free and ultra-compact fiber optic sensor for simultaneous measurement of temperature and refractive index.	We propose and demonstrate a cross-talk free simultaneous measurement system for temperature and external refractive index (ERI) implemented by dual-cavity Fabry-Perot (FP) fiber interferometer. The sensing probe consists of two cascaded FP cavities formed with a short piece of multimode fiber (MMF) and a micro-air-gap made of hollow core fiber (HOF). The fabricated sensor head was ultra-compact; the total length of the sensing part was less than 600 mum. Since the reflection spectrum of the composite FP structures is given by the superposition of each cavity spectrum, the spectrum measured in the wavelength domain was analyzed in the Fourier or spatial frequency domain. The experimental results showed that temperature could be determined independently from the spatial frequency shift without being affected by the ERI, while the ERI could be also measured solely by monitoring the intensity variation in the spatial frequency spectrum. The ERI and the temperature sensitivities were approximately 16 dB/RIU for the 1.33-1.45 index range, and 8.9 nm/ degrees C at low temperature and 14.6 nm/ degrees C at high temperature, respectively. In addition, it is also demonstrated that the proposed dual-cavity FP sensor has potential for compensating any power fluctuation that might happen in the input light source.
Whispering gallery mode bio-sensor for label-free detection of single molecules: thermo-optic vs. reactive mechanism.	Thermo-optic and reactive mechanisms for label-free sensing of bio-particles are compared theoretically for Whispering Gallery Mode (WGM) resonators (sphere, toroid) formed from silica and stimulated into a first order equatorial mode. Although it has been expected that a thermo-optic mechanism should "greatly enhance" wavelength shift signals [A.M. Armani et al, Science 317, 783-787 (2007)] accompanying protein binding on a silica WGM cavity having high Q (10(8)), for a combination of wavelength (680 nm), drive power (1 mW), and cavity size (43 microm radius), our calculations find no such enhancement. The possible reasons for this disparity are discussed.
Experimental demonstration of tunable phase in a thermochromic infrared-reflectarray metamaterial.	For the first time, a tunable reflected phase reflectarray is demonstrated in the thermal infrared. This is done using thermochromic VO(2) square-patch elements in a reflectarray metamaterial configuration. A sixty degree change in reflected phase is measured using a Twyman-Green interferometer, and FTIR measurements show that the resonance reflection minima shifts from 9.2 to 11.2 mum as the sample is heated from 45 through 65 degrees C. These results are in agreement with finite-element method simulations using the optical properties of VO(2) which are measured by infrared ellipsometry.
Thermal monitoring: Raman spectrometer system for remote measurement of cellular temperature on a microscopic scale.	A simple setup is demonstrated for remote temperature monitoring of water, water-based media, and cells on a microscopic scale. The technique relies on recording changes in the shape of a stretching band of the hydroxyl group in liquid water at 3,100-3,700 cm(-1). Rather than direct measurements in the near-infrared (IR), a simple Raman spectrometer setup is realized. The measured Raman shifts are observed at near optical wavelengths using an inverted microscope with standard objectives in contrast to costly near-IR elements. This allows for simultaneous visible inspection through the same optical path. An inexpensive 671-nm diode pump laser (< 100 mW), standard dichroic and lowpass filters, and a commercial 600-1,000 nm spectrometer complete the instrument. Temperature changes of 1 degrees C are readily distinguished over a range consistent with cellular processes (25-45 degrees C) using integration times below 10 s. Greatly improved sensitivity was obtained by an automated two-peak fitting procedure. When combined with an optical camera, the instrument can be used to monitor changes in cell behavior as a function of temperature without the need for invasive probing. The instrument is very simple to realize, inexpensive compared with traditional Raman spectrometers and IR microscopes, and applicable to a wide range of problems in microthermometry of biological systems. In a first application of its kind, the instrument was used to successfully determine the temperature rise of a cluster of H1299 derived human lung cells adhered to polystyrene and immersed in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) under exposure of RF millimeter wave radiation (60 GHz, 1.3, 2.6, and 5.2 mW/mm2).
Future applications of electronic thermography.	The dental literature does not yet indicate the full range of facial thermographic findings in health and disease. Thermography is not useful in assessing some common dental problems, such as periapical granuloma. Promising reports, however, support its use in the diagnosis of neuralgias and atypical odontalgia, TMJ, nerve damage and repair after oral surgery, and in evaluating local dental anesthesia. Unfortunately, few if any of these studies were properly designed or conducted, limiting current attempts to define the value of thermography in dentistry. Until this situation resolves, ET of the face, for use in dentistry, can only be considered an investigational procedure. More research will clarify the precise contribution of thermography to dental problems.
Single tilted Bragg reflector fiber laser for simultaneous sensing of refractive index and temperature.	A type of fiber laser, called tilted Bragg reflector fiber laser (TBR-FL), is proposed and its application in simultaneous sensing of surrounding refractive index (SRI) and temperature is demonstrated. This FL is formed by a pair of wavelength and tilt-angle matched tilted fiber Bragg gratings (TFBGs) that acted both as a resonant cavity and sensing element. A unique spectral feature of the TBR-FL is the presence of grating tilt-induced cladding modes spectrum that does not appear in other type of FL, which provides an extra sensing mechanism. By employing a simple experimental setup with the discrete wavelet transform as the demodulation technique, simultaneously sensing of SRI and temperature are achieved by measuring and analyzing the wavelet coefficients shifts of the laser output and averaged cladding modes.
Internal temperature measurement of an ytterbium doped material under laser operation.	Temperature of the pumped volume of an ytterbium doped material has been measured while laser action is taking place. This is achieved by recording green emissions at 530 and 550 nm from Er3+ impurities. These emissions result from energy transfer upconversion processes between Yb3+ and Er3+. Experiments performed on a Yb3+:CaGdAlO4 crystal show the effect of pump power and laser wavelength on the sample internal temperature. Temperature variation along the sample length has also been measured. This method can complement data obtained by thermal cameras which can only access surface temperatures in most laser materials.
Screening for dry eye with newly developed ocular surface thermographer.	To evaluate the newly developed Ocular Surface Thermographer (TOMEY Corporation) for dry eye screening.
Assessment of radiofrequency self-heating around a metallic wire with MR T1-based thermometry.	Heat produced by a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging sequence in the vicinity of a conductive wire (pacemaker, electrodes, or catheter), is a subject of interest for the assessment of patient safety during imaging. For this purpose, the measurement of temperature rises during an MR imaging sequence using MR T1-based thermometry provides several advantages, mainly in its ability to retrieve in situ real-time thermal maps. Recent studies investigated the heat produced by an independent radiofrequency pulse, assessing MR imaging sequence heating using a specific MR thermometry sequence. This study focuses on self-heating for which the radiofrequency pulses used for measuring temperature create the heat. An experimental design was set up to evaluate T1-based thermometry self-heating using a coupled/decoupled wire and to compare it with a reference temperature gathered by an optical fiber device. For the tested experimental set up, T1-based thermometry is in fairly good agreement with optical fiber reference temperature.
Infiltration route analysis using thermal observation devices (TOD) and optimization techniques in a GIS environment.	Infiltration-route analysis is a military application of geospatial information system (GIS) technology. In order to find susceptible routes, optimal-path-searching algorithms are applied to minimize the cost function, which is the summed result of detection probability. The cost function was determined according to the thermal observation device (TOD) detection probability, the viewshed analysis results, and two feature layers extracted from the vector product interim terrain data. The detection probability is computed and recorded for an individual cell (50 m × 50 m), and the optimal infiltration routes are determined with A* algorithm by minimizing the summed costs on the routes from a start point to an end point. In the present study, in order to simulate the dynamic nature of a real-world problem, one thousand cost surfaces in the GIS environment were generated with randomly located TODs and randomly selected infiltration start points. Accordingly, one thousand sets of vulnerable routes for infiltration purposes could be found, which could be accumulated and presented as an infiltration vulnerability map. This application can be further utilized for both optimal infiltration routing and surveillance network design. Indeed, dynamic simulation in the GIS environment is considered to be a powerful and practical solution for optimization problems. A similar approach can be applied to the dynamic optimal routing for civil infrastructure, which requires consideration of terrain-related constraints and cost functions.
Characterization, modeling and design parameters identification of silicon carbide junction field effect transistor for temperature sensor applications.	Sensor technology is moving towards wide-band-gap semiconductors providing high temperature capable devices. Indeed, the higher thermal conductivity of silicon carbide, (three times more than silicon), permits better heat dissipation and allows better cooling and temperature management. Though many temperature sensors have already been published, little endeavours have been invested in the study of silicon carbide junction field effect devices (SiC-JFET) as a temperature sensor. SiC-JFETs devices are now mature enough and it is close to be commercialized. The use of its specific properties versus temperatures is the major focus of this paper. The SiC-JFETs output current-voltage characteristics are characterized at different temperatures. The saturation current and its on-resistance versus temperature are successfully extracted. It is demonstrated that these parameters are proportional to the absolute temperature. A physics-based model is also presented. Relationships between on-resistance and saturation current versus temperature are introduced. A comparative study between experimental data and simulation results is conducted. Important to note, the proposed model and the experimental results reflect a successful agreement as far as a temperature sensor is concerned.
Integrated parameter estimation of multi-component thermal systems with demonstration on a combined heat and power system.	In experimental models of multi-component thermal systems, small errors in each submodel can propagate detrimentally through the overall model, resulting in large prediction errors as the prediction time increases. These errors can be problematic when using open-loop or feed-forward control schemes. This paper demonstrates the advantages of a whole-system or integrated parameter estimation approach as opposed to the component-by-component parameter estimation approach that is widespread in the literature. The approach is demonstrated on a combined heat and power system at a laboratory facility, and the resulting model is used to predict the system temperatures up to 20 min in advance. Results show that, when compared to conventional component-by-component parameter estimation, the integrated parameter estimation approach improves the model prediction accuracy significantly.
Performance characterization of an integrated ultrasound, photoacoustic, and thermoacoustic imaging system.	We developed a novel trimodality system for human breast imaging by integrating photoacoustic (PA) and thermoacoustic (TA) imaging techniques into a modified commercial ultrasound scanner. Because light was delivered with an optical assembly placed within the microwave antenna, no mechanical switching between the microwave and laser sources was needed. Laser and microwave excitation pulses were interleaved to enable PA and TA data acquisition in parallel at a rate of 10 frames per second. A tube (7 mm inner diameter) filled with oxygenated bovine blood or 30 mM methylene blue dye was successfully detected in PA images in chicken breast tissue at depths of 6.6 and 8.4 cm, respectively, for the first time. The SNRs at these depths reached ∼24 and ∼15 dB, respectively, by averaging 200 signal acquisitions. Similarly, a tube (13 mm inner diameter) filled with saline solution (0.9%) at a depth of 4.4 cm in porcine fat tissue was successfully detected in TA images. The PA axial, lateral, and elevational resolutions were 640 μm, 720 μm, and 3.5 mm, respectively, suitable for breast cancer imaging. A PA noise-equivalent sensitivity to methylene blue solution of 260 nM was achieved in chicken tissue at a depth of 3.4 cm.
Wearable sensors in intelligent clothing for measuring human body temperature based on optical fiber Bragg grating.	Measuring body temperature is considerably important to physiological studies as well as clinical investigations. In recent years, numerous observations have been reported and various methods of measurement have been employed. The present paper introduces a novel wearable sensor in intelligent clothing for human body temperature measurement. The objective is the integration of optical fiber Bragg grating (FBG)-based sensors into functional textiles to extend the capabilities of wearable solutions for body temperature monitoring. In addition, the temperature sensitivity is 150 pm/°C, which is almost 15 times higher than that of a bare FBG. This study combines large and small pipes during fabrication to implant FBG sensors into the fabric. The law of energy conservation of the human body is considered in determining heat transfer between the body and its clothing. The mathematical model of heat transmission between the body and clothed FBG sensors is studied, and the steady-state thermal analysis is presented. The simulation results show the capability of the material to correct the actual body temperature. Based on the skin temperature obtained by the weighted average method, this paper presents the five points weighted coefficients model using both sides of the chest, armpits, and the upper back for the intelligent clothing. The weighted coefficients of 0.0826 for the left chest, 0.3706 for the left armpit, 0.3706 for the right armpit, 0.0936 for the upper back, and 0.0826 for the right chest were obtained using Cramer's Rule. Using the weighting coefficient, the deviation of the experimental result was ± 0.18 °C, which favors the use for clinical armpit temperature monitoring. Moreover, in special cases when several FBG sensors are broken, the weighted coefficients of the other sensors could be changed to obtain accurate body temperature.
Simultaneous wavelength and frequency encoded microstructure based quasi-distributed temperature sensor.	A novel microstructure based temperature sensor system using hybrid wavelength-division-multiplexing /frequency-division-multiplexing (WDM/FDM) is proposed. The sensing unit is a specially designed microstructure sensor both frequency and wavelength encoded, as well as low insertion loss which makes it have the potential to be densely multiplexed along one fiber. Moreover, the microstructure can be simply fabricated by UV light irradiation on commercial single-mode fiber. Assisted with appropriate demodulation algorithm, the temperature distribution along the fiber can be calculated accurately. In theory, more than 1000 sensors can be multiplexed on one fiber. We experimentally demonstrated the feasibility of the scheme through building a sensor system with 9 microstructures multiplexing and with temperature resolution of 0.4°C.
Sub-wavelength temperature probing in near-field laser heating by particles.	This work reports on the first time experimental investigation of temperature field inside silicon substrates under particle-induced near-field focusing at a sub-wavelength resolution. The noncontact Raman thermometry technique employing both Raman shift and full width at half maximum (FWHM) methods is employed to investigate the temperature rise in silicon beneath silica particles. Silica particles of three diameters (400, 800 and 1210 nm), each under four laser energy fluxes of 2.5 × 10(8), 3.8 ×10(8), 6.9 ×10(8) and 8.6 ×10(8) W/m(2), are used to investigate the effects of particle size and laser energy flux. The experimental results indicate that as the particle size or the laser energy flux increases, the temperature rise inside the substrate goes higher. Maximum temperature rises of 55.8 K (based on Raman FWHM method) and 29.3K (based on Raman shift method) are observed inside the silicon under particles of 1210 nm diameter with an incident laser of 8.6 × 10(8) W/m(2). The difference is largely due to the stress inside the silicon caused by the laser heating. To explore the mechanism of heating at the sub-wavelength scale, high-fidelity simulations are conducted on the enhanced electric and temperature fields. Modeling results agree with experiment qualitatively, and discussions are provided about the reasons for their discrepancy.
Reconfigurable silicon thermo-optical ring resonator switch based on Vernier effect control.	A proof-of-concept for a new and entirely CMOS compatible thermo-optic reconfigurable switch based on a coupled ring resonator structure is experimentally demonstrated in this paper. Preliminary results show that a single optical device is capable of combining several functionalities, such as tunable filtering, non-blocking switching and reconfigurability, in a single device with compact footprint (~50 μm x 30 μm).
Thermal Quasi-Reflectography: a new imaging tool in art conservation.	In the artwork conservation field, non contact diagnostic and imaging methods are widely used and most welcomed. In this work a new imaging tool, called Thermal Quasi-Reflectography (TQR), is proposed and demonstrated. It is based on the recording, by suitable procedures, of reflected infrared radiation in the MWIR band (3-5 μm). The technique, simple to perform, can provide very interesting results in the analysis of the painting surfaces. TQR was demonstrated in situ on two famous artworks: the Zavattari's frescos in the Chapel of Theodelinda (Italy) and the masterpiece by Piero della Francesca "The Resurrection" (Italy).
Periodic plasmonic enhancing epitopes on a whispering gallery mode biosensor.	We propose the attachment of a periodic array of gold nanoparticles (epitopes) to the equator of a Whispering Gallery Mode Biosensor for the purpose of plasmonically enhancing nanoparticle sensing in a self-referencing manner while increasing the capture rate of analyte to antibodies attached to these plasmonic epitopes. Our approach can be applied to a variety of whispering gallery mode resonators from silicon/silica rings and disks to capillaries. The interpretation of the signals is particularly simple since the optical phase difference between the epitopes is designed to be an integer multiple of ?, allowing the wavelength shift from each binding event to add independently.
Thermo-optic coefficient measurement of liquids based on simultaneous temperature and refractive index sensing capability of a two-mode fiber interferometric probe.	A fiber-optic interferometric probe based on a two-mode fiber (TMF) is proposed and demonstrated for measuring the thermo-optic coefficients (TOCs) of liquid samples. The proposed probe can be simply fabricated by fusion-splicing a short piece of TMF to a lead single mode fiber (SMF) with small lateral offset, which makes interference between LP(01) and LP(02) modes. The sensing responses of the probe to temperature and surrounding refractive index (SRI) have been experimentally investigated to show the capability of simultaneous measurements; the phase change of the reflection spectrum was related to temperature variation and the intensity change was to SRI variation. The data analysis is made not only in the spectral domain but in the Fourier domain also to effectively quantify the measurements. The TOCs of several liquid samples including water, ethanol, and acetone have been obtained with the proposed method.
Thermography and sonic anemometry to analyze air heaters in Mediterranean greenhouses.	The present work has developed a methodology based on thermography and sonic anemometry for studying the microclimate in Mediterranean greenhouses equipped with air heaters and polyethylene distribution ducts to distribute the warm air. Sonic anemometry allows us to identify the airflow pattern generated by the heaters and to analyze the temperature distribution inside the greenhouse, while thermography provides accurate crop temperature data. Air distribution by means of perforated polyethylene ducts at ground level, widely used in Mediterranean-type greenhouses, can generate heterogeneous temperature distributions inside the greenhouse when the system is not correctly designed. The system analyzed in this work used a polyethylene duct with a row of hot air outlet holes (all of equal diameter) that expel warm air toward the ground to avoid plant damage. We have observed that this design (the most widely used in Almería's greenhouses) produces stagnation of hot air in the highest part of the structure, reducing the heating of the crop zone. Using 88 kW heating power (146.7 W ∙ m(-2)) the temperature inside the greenhouse is maintained 7.2 to 11.2 °C above the outside temperature. The crop temperature (17.6 to 19.9 °C) was maintained above the minimum recommended value of 10 °C.
In-vitro detection of artificial caries on vertical dental cavity walls using infrared photothermal radiometry and modulated luminescence.	The main objective of the study was to investigate the ability of frequency-domain photothermal radiometry (PTR) and modulated luminescence (LUM) to detect secondary caries lesions on the walls of restorations (wall lesions). Changes in experimental PTR-LUM signals due to sequential demineralization on entire vertical walls of sectioned tooth samples were investigated. In addition, transverse micro-radiography (TMR) analysis (used as a gold standard) was conducted to measure the degree of demineralization that occurred in each sample. Statistical correlation between TMR results and PTR-LUM signals was determined using Pearson's correlation coefficient. LUM signals were found to be dominated by the scattered component of the incident laser beam. The more clinically relevant cases of localized demineralization and remineralization on vertical walls were also investigated to examine whether PTR-LUM signals are sensitive to demineralization and remineralization of much smaller areas. The overall results demonstrated that PTR-LUM is sensitive to progressive demineralization and remineralization on vertical walls of sectioned tooth samples.
Reduction of thermal damage in photodynamic therapy by laser irradiation techniques.	General application of continuous-wave (CW) laser irradiation modes in photodynamic therapy can cause thermal damage to normal tissues in addition to tumors. A new photodynamic laser therapy system using a pulse irradiation mode was optimized to reduce nonspecific thermal damage. In in vitro tissue specimens, tissue energy deposition rates were measured in three irradiation modes, CW, pulse, and burst-pulse. In addition, methods were tested for reducing variations in laser output and specific wavelength shifts using a thermoelectric cooler and thermistor. The average temperature elevation per 10 J/cm2 was 0.27°C, 0.09°C, and 0.08°C using the three methods, respectively, in pig muscle tissue. Variations in laser output were controlled within ± 0.2%, and specific wavelength shift was limited to ± 3 nm. Thus, optimization of a photodynamic laser system was achieved using a new pulse irradiation mode and controlled laser output to reduce potential thermal damage during conventional CW-based photodynamic therapy.
Localized thermal mapping using coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy.	Coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) spectroscopy is explored as a tool for obtaining micro-scale thermal measurements. A single femtosecond oscillator is used to pump a photonic crystal fiber to provide the broadband Stokes pulse. The CARS signals from the broad OH-stretching modes between 3000 and 3600 cm(-1) are shown to correlate with temperature with an accuracy of ± 1°C for water and ± 1.5°C for phosphate-buffered saline. Local variation of temperature is mapped on a microscopic level, using black-dyed microspheres as thermal sources.
Use of infrared thermography to assess the influence of high environmental temperature on rabbits.	The aim of this work was to ascertain if infrared thermography (IRT) can be used on rabbits to assess differences in surface body temperature when they are subjected to two different environmental temperatures outside the comfort zone. Rabbits housed in room A were maintained at a temperature of below 30°C and rabbits in room B at a temperature of above 32°C for a year. Faeces were collected six times during the year to assess stress by means of faecal cortisol metabolites (FCM). The assessment of IRT was carried out to assess maximum and minimum temperatures on the eyes, nose and ears. FCM concentration was higher in room B than A, to confirm that stress conditions were higher in room B. Significant differences in IRT were found between the animals housed in both rooms. It was observed that it was more difficult for animals from room B to maintain a regular heat loss. Although all the body zones used to assess temperature with IRT gave statistical differences, the correlations found between the eyes, nose and ears were moderate, suggesting that they were giving different information. In addition, differences up to 3.36°C were found in the eye temperature of rabbits housed in the same room, with a clear effect of their position in relation to extractors and heating equipments. Therefore, IRT could be a good tool to assess heat stress in animals housed on typical rabbit farm buildings, giving a measure of how the animal is perceiving a combination of humidity, temperature and ventilation. Some face areas were better for analysing images. Minimum temperature on eyes and temperatures on nose are suggested to assess heat losses and critical areas of the farm for heat stress in rabbits. 
Thermal patterns and hydrothermal waves (HTWs) in volatile drops.	Experimental measurements of temperature and heat flux at the liquid-wall interface during the evaporation of sessile FC-72 droplets have been reported for the first time using infrared (IR) thermography. Simultaneous high-speed imaging of the evaporating drop was carried out to monitor the drop profile. The study demonstrates that recently evidenced hydrothermal waves are actually bulk waves that extend across the entire droplet volume. More importantly, thermal patterns occurring in the bulk of the drop affect the temperature and heat-flux distributions on the solid substrate and ultimately influence the droplet evaporation rate. These effects were found to be increasingly pronounced as the substrate temperature was raised. The implications for heat-transfer mechanisms and energy transport are discussed. 
High spatial resolution thermal mapping of radiofrequency ablation lesions using a novel thermochromic liquid crystal myocardial phantom.	Radiofrequency (RF) ablation causes thermal mediated irreversible myocardial necrosis. This study aimed to (i) characterize the thermal characteristics of RF ablation lesions with high spatial resolution using a thermochromic liquid crystal (TLC) myocardial phantom; and (ii) compare the thermochromic lesions with in vivo and in vitro ablation lesions.
A survey on temperature-aware routing protocols in wireless body sensor networks.	The rapid growth of the elderly population in the world and the rising cost of healthcare impose big issues for healthcare and medical monitoring. A Wireless Body Sensor Network (WBSN) is comprised of small sensor nodes attached inside, on or around a human body, the main purpose of which is to monitor the functions and surroundings of the human body. However, the heat generated by the node's circuitry and antenna could cause damage to the human tissue. Therefore, in designing a routing protocol for WBSNs, it is important to reduce the heat by incorporating temperature into the routing metric. The main contribution of this paper is to survey existing temperature-aware routing protocols that have been proposed for WBSNs. In this paper, we present a brief overview of WBSNs, review the existing routing protocols comparatively and discuss challenging open issues in the design of routing protocols. 
On the use of a low-cost thermal sensor to improve Kinect people detection in a mobile robot.	Detecting people is a key capability for robots that operate in populated environments. In this paper, we have adopted a hierarchical approach that combines classifiers created using supervised learning in order to identify whether a person is in the view-scope of the robot or not. Our approach makes use of vision, depth and thermal sensors mounted on top of a mobile platform. The set of sensors is set up combining the rich data source offered by a Kinect sensor, which provides vision and depth at low cost, and a thermopile array sensor. Experimental results carried out with a mobile platform in a manufacturing shop floor and in a science museum have shown that the false positive rate achieved using any single cue is drastically reduced. The performance of our algorithm improves other well-known approaches, such as C4 and histogram of oriented gradients (HOG). 
Intelligent neonatal monitoring based on a virtual thermal sensor.	Temperature measurement is a vital part of daily neonatal care. Accurate measurements are important for detecting deviations from normal values for both optimal incubator and radiant warmer functioning. The purpose of monitoring the temperature is to maintain the infant in a thermoneutral environmental zone. This physiological zone is defined as the narrow range of environmental temperatures in which the infant maintains a normal body temperature without increasing his or her metabolic rate and thus oxygen consumption. Although the temperature measurement gold standard is the skin electrode, infrared thermography (IRT) should be considered as an effortless and reliable tool for measuring and mapping human skin temperature distribution and assist in assessing thermoregulatory reflexes.
Ultra-sensitive chip-based photonic temperature sensor using ring resonator structures.	Resistance thermometry provides a time-tested method for taking temperature measurements. However, fundamental limits to resistance-based approaches has produced considerable interest in developing photonic temperature sensors to leverage advances in frequency metrology and to achieve greater mechanical and environmental stability. Here we show that silicon-based optical ring resonator devices can resolve temperature differences of 1 mK using the traditional wavelength scanning methodology. An even lower noise floor of 80 μK for measuring temperature difference is achieved in the side-of-fringe, constant power mode measurement. 
An accurate and computationally efficient model for membrane-type circular-symmetric micro-hotplates.	Ideally, the design of high-performance micro-hotplates would require a large number of simulations because of the existence of many important design parameters as well as the possibly crucial effects of both spread and drift. However, the computational cost of FEM simulations, which are the only available tool for accurately predicting the temperature in micro-hotplates, is very high. As a result, micro-hotplate designers generally have no effective simulation-tools for the optimization. In order to circumvent these issues, here, we propose a model for practical circular-symmetric micro-hot-plates which takes advantage of modified Bessel functions, computationally efficient matrix-approach for considering the relevant boundary conditions, Taylor linearization for modeling the Joule heating and radiation losses, and external-region-segmentation strategy in order to accurately take into account radiation losses in the entire micro-hotplate. The proposed model is almost as accurate as FEM simulations and two to three orders of magnitude more computationally efficient (e.g., 45 s versus more than 8 h). The residual errors, which are mainly associated to the undesired heating in the electrical contacts, are small (e.g., few degrees Celsius for an 800 °C operating temperature) and, for important analyses, almost constant. Therefore, we also introduce a computationally-easy single-FEM-compensation strategy in order to reduce the residual errors to about 1 °C. As illustrative examples of the power of our approach, we report the systematic investigation of a spread in the membrane thermal conductivity and of combined variations of both ambient and bulk temperatures. Our model enables a much faster characterization of micro-hotplates and, thus, a much more effective optimization prior to fabrication. 
Liquid-crystal-contact-thermography (LCCT)--a new diagnostic method for determination of skin circulation. Results of 300 studies]	In cases where minor differences in skin temperature are of importance, LCCT can be used. Furthermore LCCT can be used to document the malperfusion of the leg and postoperative flow control of a bypass after revascularization, as well as determination of the site of amputation in cases where revascularization is not possible. General surgery, traumatology: LCCT is well suited as a screening method in the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. Our clinical trial with more than 300 patients documents the simple, non-invasive use of LCCT. More than 80 patients had parallel ascending venography performed in order to document sensitivity and specificity of LCCT. We found LCCT to have a sensitivity to 95% and a specificity of 86% when compared to venography. LCCT must be performed by a physician to rule out other pathogenic factors leading to either a rise or a fall in skin temperature. As LCCT is an absolutely non-invasive method and having a high sensitivity and specificity it is well suited as screening method in the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. LCCT can be recommended to all angiologic wards and certainly to very surgical clinic, as the early recognition or exclusion of postoperative deep venous thrombosis is its main goal.
The value of skin temperature measurements in forecasting the healing of a below-knee amputation for end-stage ischaemia of the leg in peripheral vascular disease.	In order to forecast the healing of a Burgess type below-knee amputation the skin temperature of the leg has been studied before operation in 39 instances using infra-red thermography in a 26 degrees C environment. Healing bore no relation to the mean skin temperature of the calf or that of the skin at the site of the anterior incision. However, when the skin temperature at the site of the incision for the long posterior flap was greater than 30.4 degrees C or when the ratio of the temperatures at the posterior and anterior incision sites (P/A) was greater than 0.98 healing was significantly more likely to occur. It is proposed that the temperatures at these sites should be used to assess the prospect of such an amputation healing.
Electronic thermography of normal facial structures: a pilot study.	New electronic thermographic instruments capable of routine clinical examination need to be evaluated for their potential as a diagnostic aid in dentistry. This study assessed thermal symmetry of the face and neck in 20 normal subjects with the use of frontal and lateral views, at 1.0 degree C and 0.5 degree C sensitivity, under controlled conditions. Electronic thermographic images were analyzed for thermal symmetry, by means of a grid matching technique, in 12 anatomic regions and the overall face. Results indicated that thermal symmetry for the entire face was high (70.2%). The 12 specific facial areas demonstrated varying levels of thermal symmetry. Regions of high symmetry on frontal projections included the anterior portion of the neck (82.0%), the TMJ (80.0%), the lower lip (78.6%), and the upper lip (77.3%). The temporal region (46.7%) was found to be of relatively low thermal symmetry. Regions of high symmetry on lateral projections included the nasal region (69.5%) and the inframandibular region (67.0%). The posterior neck region (44.2%) was found to be of relatively low thermal symmetry. In general, normal subjects demonstrated high levels of thermal symmetry over most regions of the face. This pilot investigation is an early step in the evaluation of electronic thermography for future use in dentistry.
Digital thermo-coronary angiography--development and validation of the method in comparison with conventional cine-coronary angiography]	We describe the technique-thermal coronary angiography (TCA)-for real-time assessment of coronary anatomy and flow. The goal of this study was to compare thermal coronary angiography to cine coronary angiography and to validate its value for detecting stenoses. We studied the exposed LAD both in beating and arrested hearts in 11 open-chest pigs by TCA and cine angiography. We used an AGA 782 Thermovision system combined with a TIC 8000 digital image processor providing coronary images with 0.1-0.2 mm spatial and 0.1 degrees C thermal resolution, and a CFR x-ray system. The coronary arteries were catheterized via the right carotid artery, using standard 5F catheters. The thermal camera was focused at a 1m-distance to the heart surface and the x-ray was angled to LAO position. We performed simultaneous thermal and cine angiography using Angiovist 370 at different temperatures (10-40 degrees C) and injection rates (1-2.5 ml/s). Different grades of stenoses were created by snares. Thermistor probe readings of the epimyocardium and the left atrial blood were performed to reference the thermal camera measurements. We obtained high resolution TCA images of both the coronaries and of the myocardial perfusion beds whenever there was greater than 4 degrees C difference between injectate and epicardial temperature. The TCA detection of stenoses as compared to cine angiography was 29/30 (96.6%) in arrested and 36/42 (85.7%) in beating hearts. Coronary occlusion produced immediate and dramatic perfusion defects as detected by TCA. TCAs were highly reproducible. Injection rate of 2 ml/s provided optimal thermal coronary images. Thermal angiograms of the LAD were sometimes affected by large crossing coronary veins, myocardial bridges, and excess of fat pretending nonexistent coronary stenosis. TCA is a highly sensitive and reproducible method as compared to standard coronary angiography and allows for detection of coronary stenoses. The image quality was best in arrested hearts.
The use of implanted closed-tip catheters for the introduction of thermometry probes during local hyperthermia treatment series.	In the past two and a half years custom-made closed-tip catheters have been used to allow extensive temperature monitoring with multi-junction thermocouple probes during local hyperthermia. Data from animal experiments indicate that the use of thermometry probes within such a catheter provides reliable temperature measurements. In order to reduce stress to the patient the catheters were fixed so that they could stay in place during the total treatment series. The catheters, outer diameter 1.22 mm, were introduced through hollow needles under sterile conditions before the first hyperthermia session, and fixed using Histo-acryl (tissue adhesive) and Tegaderm (transparent adhesive). Recently, the data concerning the first 180 catheters placed in 74 treatment areas were evaluated. In one patient, an abscess developed 10 days after removal of the (3) catheters, which required surgical intervention, but it was not clear whether these problems had developed as a result of catheter placement. There were no problems with 139 of the remaining 177 catheters (79 per cent) and in 50 treatment fields (68 per cent), respectively, for a duration of 9-55 (mean 23) days. Ten catheters (6 per cent) were lost during the treatment series after 1-22 (mean 10) days. With 28 catheters (16 per cent) infection was observed, 14-27 (mean 19) days after insertion, which necessitated catheter removal before the last treatment session in 11 cases (6 per cent). The complication rate decreased with increasing experience; from 29 per cent (25/85) in the early period to 14 per cent (13/92) in the later period. We conclude that the use of closed-tip catheters under proper control generally causes few, if any, problems. This results in the acquisition of a substantial amount of reliable temperature data at reproducible sites, and it is well tolerated by the patient.
Use of liquid crystals for determining burn depth]	The article describes results of the application of liquid-crystal thermoindicating films for obtaining an objective assessment of the burn depth in 30 patients. The proposed method is recommended as an additional objective test of the true burn depth. The method is harmless for the patient, simple, does not require expensive apparatus and may be used both at the hospital and at the prehospital stage.
Value of liquid crystal thermography in the diagnosis of acute lactation mastitis]	The observations were performed in 83 patients. It was shown that liquid crystal thermography allowed timely diagnosis of acute mastitis, its form, spread of the process, appearance of a recurrent destructive process in the gland.
Diagnostic possibilities and prospects for the use of thermovision in neurosurgical clinical practice]	On the basis of examination of 130 patients, the authors describe for the first time the thermovision syndromes of cerebral tumors, intracranial hematomas, posttraumatic cranial defects, tumors of the spinal cord, Schmorl' body, injuries to the peripheral nerves, and some other neurosurgical pathologic conditions. The mechanisms of the origin of thermoasymmetry are discussed. The diagnostic possibilities and the prospects of thermovision in neurosurgery are disclosed.
Thermography in assessing coronary artery saphenous graft patency and blood flow.	Infrared thermography has been used in 32 patients undergoing coronary artery saphenous bypass graft surgery in our department, in order to visualise graft patency and flow at the time surgery. 16 of these patients also had flow measurements with the use of electromagnetic flow meters to one or more of their grafts, which had already been thermographed in order to establish a correlation between the two methods. This study has confirmed that grafts which show good flow by means of electromagnetic flow meters also have a good pictorial graft patency and flow with infrared thermography.
Effect of cyclofenil treatment on arterial insufficiency demonstrated in a patient by colour thermography.	Cyclofenil, 200 mg t.i.d., was administered for four months to a 67-year-old woman, who suffered from a combination of scleroderma, Osler-Weber-Rendu disease and a severe atherosclerotic circulatory insufficiency. The effects on the severely impaired skin circulation in the face and hands were followed and recorded by colour isothermograms, using the AGA monitor system. The treatment resulted in a marked improvement of the arterial circulation with disappearance of the Raynaud phenomenon, complete arrest of gastrointestinal bleeding, disappearance of malabsorption, and relief of the joint stiffness.
Contact plate thermography: a new technique for diagnosis of breast masses.	Ninety-four consecutive patients who underwent breast biopsy were prospectively evaluated with contact plate thermography. Final diagnosis based on surgically excised tissue was used as the standard of comparison. There were 77 benign lesions and 17 malignant lesions in the study group. A diagnosis of cancer was made by contact plate thermography in 11 of the 17 patients with malignant neoplasms, with six false-negative diagnoses. Among the 77 histologically benign lesions, contact plate thermography made the correct diagnosis in 66 cases, with 11 false-positive results. Considering all 94 patients, contact plate thermography was accurate in 81.9%, with 6.4% false-negative and 11.7% false-positive diagnoses. These data compared favorably with other diagnostic data used in this study, namely physical examination and mammography. Contact plate thermography is a quick, inexpensive, and harmless diagnostic procedure. Further evaluation of it is indicated, including its possible inclusion in breast cancer screening programs.
Continuous monitoring of temperature in laboratory animals during inhalation exposure.	An automatic system was developed to monitor continuously the colonic temperature of laboratory animals during inhalation exposure to toxic chemicals. It includes: an automatic switchbox, a control circuit, a recorder and a digital voltmeter. The system was calibrated for different temperature ranges and used for a year to assess the effects of household solvents on temperature of Sprague-Dawley rats. Reliable monitoring of temperature in 16 rats was carried out in a sequential manner in the manual mode or in the automatic mode for several consecutive days. Very slight changes (.01 - .02 degrees C) in temperature can be measured with this system.
Microwave thermography as a noninvasive assessment of disease activity in inflammatory arthritis.	Microwave thermography is the technique of measuring natural thermal radiation from body tissues of clinical interest. It is safe, requires no control of environmental conditions and exposes the patient to no ionising radiation. In this study, we found that microwave thermography of the knee joints showed weak correlation with some global parameters of disease activity. Bed rest alone for three days had no significant effect on microwave thermographic index (MTI). Intra-articular steroid injection, however, was associated with a marked fall in MTI both in the injected knee and the contra-lateral knee. We conclude that microwave thermography can measure inflammatory activity in the knee joints of patients with inflammatory arthritis and can respond to clinical change brought about by major treatment intervention.
Contact regulation thermography: a useful diagnostic procedure?]	Contact regulation thermography is one of the unconventional medical diagnostic procedures, and is based on the individual adaptive behavior of the subject with respect to temperature. Its proponents believe that a specific medical diagnosis can be established on the basis of varying temperature differences. Studies carried out to date have produced mixed results. The increasing use of this procedure, not only in complementary medicine, makes it necessary to undertake a critical examination of the method. Care-providing physicians should question their patients about other unconventional medical diagnostic procedures to which they have been submitted, and inform them about the dubious nature of non-evaluated methods.
Telethermographic effects and a comparative clinical assessment of the treatment of shoulder periarthritis using ultrasound]	The aim of this study was the instrumental evaluation of ultrasound therapy in patients with periarthritis of the shoulder, with regard to studies that show doubts about the real effectiveness of the antiinflammatory action of ultrasound. Two groups of subjects were studied, periarthritis versus normal patients. Clinical evaluation and instrumental measures (telethermography) were performed before and after ultrasound therapy. These data were statistically analyzed and constant variations were found, according to clinical evaluation of the patients. Therefore results of this study demonstrated a real influence of ultrasound therapy on periarthritis of the shoulder.
Temperature and surface changes of dentine and cementum induced by CO2 laser exposure.	The thermal effects of a CO2 laser on the external root surface and inside the root canal were studied in vitro by means of computerized infrared (IR) thermography and a digital thermometer. One-hundred-and-eighty tooth roots with single root canals were irradiated internally and externally with laser power set at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3 and 4 W. The laser was used in two operating modes: pulsed (pulse 0.5 s) and continuous mode with exposure time of 10 s. Under the conditions of this experiment, temperature rises of between 1.5 and 19.1 degrees C at the external root surface and 1.5 and 12 degrees C inside the root canal and horizontally across the sectioned root surface were recorded. The results obtained with IR camera showed a higher temperature on the external root surface than the digital thermometer during and after lasing the root canal. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis revealed that even low laser energy significantly damaged the external root cementum surfaces.
Thermography of malignant melanomas.	Thermography is investigated as a tool for the diagnosis of malignant melanoma. A correlation between hyperthermia and malignancy is demonstrated in about two-thirds of the cases examined.
A comparison of temperature measurements using three ear thermometers.	Following anecdotal and research-based reports of inaccuracies encountered with the use of ear thermometers in patient care settings, this two-phase study was designed to compare the accuracy of three ear thermometers when used in a multioperator environment. The within-subject variation (limits of agreement) in ear temperature measurements obtained with the three ear thermometers in a multioperator condition by using an oral temperature reference standard ranged from +/- 1.25 degrees F to 1.85 degrees F. In multioperator, multisubject patient care environments using a pulmonary artery catheter core temperature as the reference standard, the limits of agreement for ear temperature measurements obtained with the three different ear thermometers ranged from +/- 2.19 degrees F to 2.85 degrees F. These results suggest that there is substantial variation in ear measurements and raise questions about the use of ear thermometers when there are multiple personnel taking temperatures, as occurs in hospital-based clinical practice environments. Handedness of the operator, position of the patient, and the ear used for measurement did not produce clinically significant variability in ear temperature measurements.
