Effects of C-4 stereochemistry and C-4' hydroxylation on the iron clearing efficiency and toxicity of desferrithiocin analogues.	Additional structure-activity studies of desferrithiocin analogues are carried out. The effects of stereochemistry at C-4 on the ligands' iron clearing efficiency are reviewed and assessed using the enantiomers 4,5-dihydro-2-(2, 4-dihydroxyphenyl)thiazole-4(R)-carboxylic acid and 4,5-dihydro-2-(2, 4-dihydroxyphenyl)thiazole-4(S)-carboxylic acid. The utility of 4'-hydroxylation as a method of reducing the toxicity of desazadesferrithiocin analogues is also examined further with the synthesis and in vivo comparison of 4, 5-dihydro-2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-4-methylthiazole-4(S)-carboxylic acid, which is the natural product 4-methylaeruginoic acid, and 4, 5-dihydro-2-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-4-methylthiazole-4(S)-carboxylic acid. The stereochemistry at C-4 is shown to have a substantial effect on the iron clearing efficiency of desferrithiocin analogues, as does C-4'-hydroxylation on the toxicity profile. All of the compounds are evaluated in a bile-duct-cannulated rodent model to determine iron clearance efficiency and are carried forward to the iron-overloaded primate for iron clearing measurements. On the basis of the results of the present work, although 4,5-dihydro-2-(2, 4-dihydroxyphenyl)thiazole-4(S)-carboxylic acid is still the most promising candidate for clinical evaluation, 4,5-dihydro-2-(2, 4-dihydroxyphenyl)-4-methylthiazole-4(S)-carboxylic acid (4'-hydroxydesazadesferrithiocin) also merits further preclinical assessment.
Total synthesis of epothilone E and related side-chain modified analogues via a Stille coupling based strategy.	A Stille coupling strategy has been utilized to complete a total synthesis of epothilone E from vinyl iodide 7 and thiazole-stannane 8h. The central core fragment 7 and its trans-isomer 11 were prepared from triene 15 using ring-closing metathesis (RCM), and were subsequently coupled to a variety of alternative stannanes to provide a library of epothilone analogues 18a-o and 19a-o. The Stille coupling approach was then used to prepare epothilone B analogues from the key macrolactone intermediate 24 which was itself synthesized by a macrolactonization based strategy.
Novel euglycemic and hypolipidemic agents. 4. Pyridyl- and quinolinyl-containing thiazolidinediones.	A series of substituted pyridyl- and quinolinyl-containing 2, 4-thiazolidinediones having interesting cyclic amine as a linker have been synthesized. Both unsaturated thiazolidinediones 5 and saturated thiazolidinediones 6 and their various salts were evaluated in db/db mice for euglycemic and hypolipidemic effects and compared with BRL compound 11 and BRL-49653, respectively. Some of the potent compounds were converted to various salts in order to obtain improved activities. Among all the salts evaluated, the maleate salt of unsaturated TZD 5a was found to be a very potent euglycemic and hypolipidemic compound. Some of the more interesting compounds have also been evaluated in ob/ob mice and compared with rosiglitazone (maleate salt of BRL-49653). Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed in both db/db and ob/ob mice. Pharmacokinetic studies of 5a maleate are also reported. Receptor binding studies of PPARgamma by 5a/5a maleate did not show any significant transactivation of PPARalpha or PPARgamma.
Application of 2-(3,5,6-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)benzoxazole and -benzothiazole to fluorescent probes sensing pH and metal cations.	2-(3,5,6-Trifluoro-2-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)benzoxazole (3) and benzothiazole analogue (4) are prepared by the two-step procedures from the corresponding 2-(pentafluorophenyl)benzazoles. Benzoxazole 3 is applicable to a fluorescent probe sensing magnesium cation, and 4 is suitable for sensing zinc cation. Both fluorophores 3 and 4 are sensitive to the pH change at pH 7-8, resulting in large fluorescence enhancement under basic conditions. Their high sensitivity to pH and selectivity in metal cations are ascribed to the high acidity of the fluorophenol moiety.
Synthesis and antinociceptive activity of [(2-oxobenzothiazolin-3-yl)methyl]-4-alkyl/aryl-1,2,4-triazoline-5-thiones.	The synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of new [(2-oxobenzothiazolin-3-yl)methyl]-4-alkyl/aryl-1,2,4-triazoline-5-thiones are reported. All compounds were screened for analgesic and antiinflammatory activities by using the AcOH induced-stretching test, the hot plate test, the tail clip test, and the tail flick test. All of the title compounds showed more potent activity than the standard compound aspirin in the AcOH induced-stretching test. In the hot plate test [(2-oxobenzothiazolin-3-yl)methyl]-4-phenethyl-1,2,4-triazoline-5-thione 5j were revealed to be two-fold more potent in antinociceptive activity than novalgine. However, in the tail flick and tail clip test none of the compounds showed an antinociceptive activity as high as that of novalgine. On the basis of available data the structure-activity relationship in the [(2-oxobenzothiazolin-3-yl)methyl]-4-alkyl/aryl-1,2,4-triazoline-5-thiones was also discussed.
Pseudoproline-containing analogues of morphiceptin and endomorphin-2: evidence for a cis Tyr-Pro amide bond in the bioactive conformation.	Analogues of the opioid peptides [D-Phe(3)]morphiceptin (H-Tyr-Pro-D-Phe-Pro-NH(2)) and endomorphin-2 (H-Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH(2)) containing the pseudoproline (Psi Pro) (4R)-thiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (Cys[Psi(R1,R2)pro]) or (4S)-oxazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (Ser[Psi(R1,R2)pro]) in place of Pro(2) were synthesized. The pseudoproline ring in these compounds was either unsubstituted (R(1), R(2) = H) or dimethylated (R(1), R(2) = CH(3)) at the 2-C position. 2-C-dimethylated pseudoprolines are known to be quantitative or nearly quantitative inducers of the cis conformation around the Xaa(i-1)-Xaa(i)[Psi(CH(3),CH)(3)pro)] imide bond. All dihydropseudoproline-containing analogues (R(1), R(2) = H) showed good mu opioid agonist potency in the guinea pig ileum (GPI) assay, high mu receptor binding affinity in the rat brain membrane binding assay, and, like their parent peptides, excellent mu receptor binding selectivity. (1)H NMR spectroscopic analysis of the Cys[Psi(H,H)pro](2)- and Ser[Psi(H,H)pro](2)-containing analogues in DMSO-d(6) revealed that they existed in a conformational equilibrium around the Tyr-Xaa[Psi(H,H)pro] peptide bond with cis/trans ratios of 40:60 and 45:55, respectively. The dimethylated thiazolidine- and oxazolidine-containing [D-Phe(3)]morphiceptin- and endomorphin-2 analogues (R(1), R(2) = CH(3)) all retained full mu agonist potency in the GPI assay and displayed mu receptor binding affinities in the nanomolar range and high mu receptor selectivity. As expected, no conformers of the latter analogues with a trans conformation around the Tyr-Xaa[Psi(CH(3),CH(3)pro)] imide bond were detected by (1)H NMR spectral analysis, indicating that in these compounds the cis conformation is highly predominant (>98%). These results represent the most direct evidence obtained so far to indicate that morphiceptin and endomorphin-2 have the cis conformation around the Tyr-Pro peptide bond in their bioactive conformations.
The reaction of digitoxin and digoxin with cyanoacetic acid hydrazide: synthesis of coumarin, thiazole, thiophene and pyridine derivatives with potential biological activities.	The reaction of either Digitoxin or Digoxin with cyanoacetic acid hydrazide gave the hydrazone derivatives 3a and 3b respectively. The reactivity of the latter products towards chemical reagents was studied to give heterocyclic derivatives with potential biological activities.
Synthesis of nodulisporic acid 2' '-oxazoles and 2' '-thiazoles.	[reaction--see text] The semisynthetic conversion of nodulisporic acid A (1) into a set of three heterocyclic side chain derivatives provided compounds, highlighted by 6, with an improved spectrum of ectoparasiticidal activity and pharmacokinetic profile relative to the natural product.
Design of selective and soluble inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme (TACE).	A program to improve upon the in vitro, in vivo, and physicochemical properties of N-hydroxyformamide TACE inhibitor GW 3333 (1) is described. Using the primary structure of pro-TNF-alpha, along with a homology model of the catalytic domain of TACE based on the X-ray diffraction coordinates of adamalysin, we synthesized N-hydroxyformamide TACE inhibitors containing a P2' arginine side chain. Introduction of nitro and sulfonyl electron-withdrawing groups covalently bound to the P2' guanidine moiety rendered the inhibitors electronically neutral at cellular pH and led to potent inhibition of TNF-alpha release from stimulated macrophages. Inhibitors containing these arginine mimetics were found to have increased solubility in simulated gastric fluid (SGF) relative to 1, allowing for the incorporation of lipophilic P1' side chains which had the effect of retaining potent TACE inhibition, but reducing potency against matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) thus increasing overall selectivity against MMP1, MMP3, and MMP9. Selected compounds showed good to excellent in vivo TNF inhibition when administered via subcutaneous injection. One inhibitor, 28a, with roughly 10x selectivity over MMP1 and MMP3 and high solubility in SGF, was evaluated in the rat zymosan-induced pleuisy model of inflammation and found to inhibit zymosan-stimulated pleural TNF-alpha elevation by 30%.
Molecular design, synthesis, and structure-Activity relationships leading to the potent and selective p56(lck) inhibitor BMS-243117.	A series of structurally novel benzothiazole based small molecule inhibitors of p56(lck) were prepared to elucidate their structure-activity relationships (SARs), selectivity and cell activity in the T-cell proliferation assay. BMS-243117 (compound 2) is identified as a potent, and selective Lck inhibitor with good cellular activity (IC(50)=1.1 microM) against T-cell proliferation.
Discovery and structural modification of inhibitors of methionine aminopeptidases from Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A series of pyridine-2-carboxylic acid derivatives were synthesized according to the leads from the screening, and potent inhibitors have been obtained by structural modification. They have shown submicromolar inhibition of the enzymes (for example, for 9n, IC(50) = 130 nM for EcMetAP1 and IC(50) = 380 nM for ScMetAP1). They represent small-molecule MetAP inhibitors with novel structures different from alkylating fumagillin derivatives and peptidic bestatin-based MetAP inhibitor.
Synthesis and evaluation of 11C-labeled 6-substituted 2-arylbenzothiazoles as amyloid imaging agents.	The synthesis and evaluation of a series of neutral analogues of thioflavin-T (termed BTA's) with high affinities for aggregated amyloid and a wide range of lipophilicities are reported. Radiolabeling with high specific activity [(11)C]methyl iodide provided derivatives for in vivo evaluation. Brain entry in control mice and baboons was high for nearly all of the analogues at early times after injection, but the clearance rate of radioactivity from brain tissue varied by more than 1 order of magnitude. Upon the basis of its rapid clearance from normal mouse and baboon brain tissues, [N-methyl-(11)C]2-(4'-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxybenzothiazole (or [(11)C]6-OH-BTA-1) was selected as the lead compound for further evaluation. The radiolabeled metabolites of [(11)C]6-OH-BTA-1 were polar and did not enter brain. The binding affinities of [N-methyl-(3)H]6-OH-BTA-1 for homogenates of postmortem AD frontal cortex and synthetic Abeta(1-40) fibrils were similar (K(d) = 1.4 nM and 4.7 nM, respectively), but the ligand-to-Abeta peptide binding stoichiometry was approximately 400-fold higher for AD brain than Abeta(1-40) fibrils. Staining of AD frontal cortex tissue sections with 6-OH-BTA-1 indicated the selective binding of the compound to amyloid plaques and cerebrovascular amyloid. The encouraging in vitro and in vivo properties of [(11)C]6-OH-BTA-1 support the choice of this derivative for further evaluation in human subject studies of brain Abeta deposition.
Structure-activity relationships of 2-(benzothiazolylthio)acetamide class of CCR3 selective antagonist.	The structure activity relationships of novel selective CCR3 receptor antagonists, 2-(benzothiazolylthio)acetamimde derivatives were described. A lead structure (1a) was discovered from the screening of the focused library that was based on the structure of our dual antagonists for the human CCR1 and CCR3 receptors. Derivatization of 1a including incorporation of substituent(s) into each benzene ring of the benzothiazole and piperidine side chain resulted in the identification of potent and selective compounds (1b, r, s) exhibiting nano-molar binding affinity (IC(50)s: 1.5-3.0 nM) and greater than 800-fold selectivity for the CCR3 receptor over the CCR1 receptor.
Polymer-assisted solution-phase (PASP) parallel synthesis of an alpha-ketothiazole library as tissue factor VIIa inhibitors.	A solution-phase synthesis of an alpha-ketothiazole library of the general form D-Phe-L-AA-L-Arg-alpha-ketothiazole is described. The five-step synthesis is accomplished using a combination of polymeric reagents and polymer-assisted solution-phase purification protocols, including reactant-sequestering resins, reagent-sequestering resins, and tagged reagents. The multi-step synthesis affords the desired alpha-ketothiazole products in excellent purities and yields. A variety of L-amino acid inputs were used to probe the S2 pocket of the tissue factor (TF) VIIa enzyme to influence both potency and selectivity. An X-ray crystal structure of compound 10e bound to the TF/VIIa complex was obtained that explains the observed selectivity. The alpha-ketothiazoles were found to be potent, reversible-covalent inhibitors of tissue factor VIIa, with some analogues demonstrating selectivity versus thrombin.
Synthesis and structure-activity studies of novel orally active non-terpenoic 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclase inhibitors.	New orally active non-terpenoic inhibitors of human 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclase (hOSC) are reported. The starting point for the optimization process was a set of compounds derived from a fungicide project, which in addition to showing high affinity for OSC from Candida albicans showed also high affinity for human OSC. Common structural elements of these inhibitors are an amine residue and an electrophilic carbonyl C atom embedded in a benzophenone system, which are at a distance of about 10.7 A. Considering that the keto moiety is in a potentially labile position, modifications of the substitution pattern at the benzophenone as well as annelated heteroaryl systems were explored. Our approach combined testing of the compounds first for increased binding affinity and for increased stability in vitro. Most promising compounds were then evaluated for their efficacy in lowering plasma total cholesterol (TC) and plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in hyperlipidemic hamsters. In this respect, the most promising compounds are the benzophenone derivative 1.fumarate and the benzo[d]isothiazol 24.fumarate, which lowered TC by 40% and 33%, respectively.
Discovery of 2-amino-heteroaryl-benzothiazole-6-anilides as potent p56(lck) inhibitors.	A series of structurally novel benzothiazole based small molecule inhibitors of p56(lck) was prepared to elucidate their structure-activity relationships (SAR), selectivity and cell activity in the T-cell proliferation assay. BMS-350751 (2) and BMS-358233 (3) are identified as potent Lck inhibitors with excellent cellular activities against T-cell proliferation.
A thiazole-containing tripodal ligand: synthesis, characterization, and interactions with metal ions and matrix metalloproteinases.	A new tripodal ligand, tris[2-(((2-thiazolyl)methylidene)amino)ethyl]amine (Tatren), has been synthesized and characterized by NMR, IR, and UV-visible absorbance spectroscopy and elemental analysis. Tatren forms stable complexes with transition metal ions (Zn(2+), 1; Mn(2+), 2; Co(2+), 3) and the alkaline earth metal ions (Ca(2+), 4; Mg(2+), 5). Single-crystal X-ray structures of 1, 2, and 5 revealed six-coordinate chelate complexes with formula [M(Tatren)](ClO(4))(2) in which the metal centers are coordinated by three thiazolyl N atoms and three acyclic imine N atoms. Crystals of 1, 2, and 5 are monoclinic, P2(1)/c space group. Crystals of 4 are triclinic, P space group. The Ca(2+) complex is eight-coordinate with all N atoms of Tatren and one water molecule coordinated to the metal ion. Spectrophotometric titrations show that formation constants for the chelates of metal ions are >>1 in methanol. Free Tatren inhibits the catalytic domain of matrix metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13, collagenase-3) with K(i) = 3.5 +/- 0.6 microM. Molecular mechanics-based docking calculations suggest that one leg of Tatren coordinates to the catalytic Zn(2+) in MMPs-2, -9, and -13 with significant hydrogen bonding to backbone amide groups. High-level DFT calculations suggest that, in the absence of nonbonded interactions between Tatren and the enzyme, the most stable first coordination sphere of the catalytic Zn(2+) is achieved with three imidazolyl groups from His residues and two imine N atoms from one leg of Tatren. While complexes (1-3) do not inhibit MMP-13 to a significant extent, 4 does (K(i) = 30 +/- 10 microM). Hence, this study shows that tripodal chelating ligands of this class and their Ca(2+) complexes have potential as active-site inhibitors for MMPs.
Synthesis of some 2-[(benzazole-2-yl)thioacetylamino]thiazole derivatives and their antimicrobial activity and toxicity.	Some 2-[(benzazole-2-yl)thioacetylamino]thiazole derivatives (III) were synthesized by reacting 4-methyl-2-(chloroacetylamino)thiazole derivatives (I) with benzazol-2-thiole (II) in acetone in the presence of K(2)CO(3). The chemical structures of the compounds were elucidated by (1)H NMR and FAB(+)-MS spectral data. The prepared compounds were tested for antimicrobial activity and toxicity.
Synthesis and herbicidal activity of 2-cyano-3-(2-chlorothiazol-5-yl)methylaminoacrylates.	A series of 2-cyano-3-(2-chlorothiazol-5-yl)methylaminoacrylates were synthesized as herbicidal inhibitors of PSII electron transport. All of these compounds exhibited good herbicidal activities. In particular, (Z)-ethoxyethyl 2-cyano-3-isopropyl-3-(2-chlorothiazol-5-yl)methylaminoacrylate showed excellent herbicidal activities even at a dose of 75 g/ha. A suitable group at the 3-position of acrylate was essential for high herbicidal activity. 2-Cyanoacrylates containing a 2-chloro-5-thiazolyl group are a novel class of herbicides and display herbicidal activities comparable to existing analogues bearing chloropyridyl or chlorophenyl.
Synthesis and antifungal action of new tricyclazole analogues.	Melanins are very important pigments for the survival and longevity of fungi, so their biosynthesis inhibition is a new biochemical target aiming at the discovery of selective fungicides. In this work is described the synthesis of new pyrazolo-thiazolo-triazole compounds, analogues of tricyclazole (a commercial antifungal product that acts by inhibiting melanin synthesis), and their biological activity was studied on some dermatophytes and phytopathogens. The compounds poorly inhibited the growth and pigmentation of fungi tested and were less efficient than tricyclazole. Electron microscopy on Botrytis cinerea showed that treatment with the most active compound caused abnormally thickened and stratified walls in fungi, whose ultrastructure was, in contrast, generally normal. The fungus treated with tricyclazole, on the other hand, appeared to be drastically altered, so as to become completely disorganized. These results suggest that the new azole compounds employ an action mechanism similar to that of other azoles, but dissimilar to that of tricyclazole.
2-aminothiazole-derived opioids. Bioisosteric replacement of phenols.	A series of aminothiazole-derived morphinans, benzomorphans, and morphine were synthesized. Although their affinities were somewhat lower than their phenol prototypes, one compound (9a, ATPM) has been identified possessing high affinity and selectivity at the kappa receptor. Functional assays showed that 9a was a full kappa but partial mu agonist; the efficacy at kappa was significantly greater than at mu receptors. This novel compound may be valuable for the development of long-acting analgesics and drug abuse medication.
Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of novel 7-substituted 1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-1-(2-thiazolyl)-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acids as antitumor agents. Part 2.	We have previously reported that a series of 7-substituted 6-fluoro-1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-1-(2-thiazolyl)-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acids possess moderate cytotoxic activity. In a further attempt to find clinically useful antitumor agents, we investigated the structure-activity relationships (SARs) of a new series of compounds obtained by changing the C-6 position of the fluorine atom in addition to the C-5 and C-7 positions and evaluating their cytotoxic activity against several murine and human tumor cell lines. Our results showed that the 6-unsubstituted 1,8-naphthyridine structure had the most potent cytotoxic activity against murine P388 leukemia twice that of the 6-fluoro analogue. In addition, introduction of an amino group at the C-5 position did not have any substantial effect on the cytotoxic activity, while both the 5-chloro and 5-trifluoromethyl groups decreased the cytotoxic activity by 5- to 10-fold. Moreover, aminopyrrolidine derivatives at the C-7 position showed more potent cytotoxic activity than other amines or carbon derivatives. Among the 7-(3-aminopyrrolidinyl) derivatives, the trans-3-methoxy-4-methylaminopyrrolidinyl derivative (27l) was determined to have potent cytotoxic activity in both in vitro and in vivo assays and high water solubility. Finally, the (S,S)-isomer (AG-7352, 3) of 27l, with a cytotoxic activity against human tumor cell lines more potent than that of etoposide, was selected for further development.
The development of the antitumour benzothiazole prodrug, Phortress, as a clinical candidate.	This review traces the development of a series of potent and selective antitumour benzothiazoles from the discovery of the initial lead compound, 2-(4-amino-3-methylphenyl)benzothiazole (DF 203) in 1995 to the identification of a clinical candidate, Phortress, scheduled to enter Phase 1 trials in Q1 2004 under the auspices of Cancer Research U.K. Advances in our understanding of the mechanism of action of this unique series of agents are described and can be summarised as follows: selective uptake into sensitive cells followed by Arylhydrocarbon Receptor (AhR) binding and translocation into the nucleus, induction of the cytochrome P450 isoform (CYP) 1A1, conversion of the drug into an electrophilic reactive intermediate and formation of extensive DNA adducts resulting in cell death. Our understanding of this mechanistic scenario has played a crucial role in the drug development process, most notably in the synthesis of fluorinated DF 203 analogues to thwart deactivating oxidative metabolism (5F 203) and water-soluble prodrug design for parenteral administration. Aspects of mechanism of action studies, in vitro and in vivo screening, synthetic chemistry and pharmacokinetics are reviewed here.
New highly potent and selective adenosine A(3) receptor antagonists.	A class of potent, selective adenosine A(3) receptor antagonists was obtained via optimisation of the screening hit N-[4-(4-methoxyphenyl)-thiazol-2-yl]-acetamide. Structural modifications of this hit revealed very quickly that a 5-(pyridin-4-yl) substituent on the 2-aminothiazole ring was optimal for high potency at the adenosine A(3) receptor. Structure activity relationship studies led to both potent and selective A(3) receptor antagonists, including N-[5-pyridin-4-yl-4-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)-thiazol-2-yl]-acetamide, a highly potent aden-osine A(3) receptor antagonist with greater than 100- fold selectivity against the related adenosine receptors. As well as demonstrating selective in vitro binding on the human A(3) adenosine receptor, this compound was also shown to selectively block the rat A(3) receptor in vivo. This important new compound can be readily synthesised in four steps from commercially available starting materials.
Synthesis and preliminary evaluation of some pyrazine containing thiazolines and thiazolidinones as antimicrobial agents.	A series of N'-[3,4-disubstituted-1,3-thiazol-2(3H)-ylidene]-2-(pyrazin-2-yloxy)acetohydrazide 11-66 and N'-[(2Z)-3-(4-bromophenyl)-4-oxo-1,3-thiazolidin-2-ylidene]-2-(pyrazin-2-yloxy)acetohydrazide 68-74 were synthesized using appropriate synthetic route. The entire test compounds 11-66 and 68-74 were assayed in vitro for antibacterial activity against two different strains of Gram-negative (E. coli and S. typhi), Gram-positive (S. aureus and B. subtilis) bacteria and the antimycobacterial activity was evaluated against H(37)Rv strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was determined for test compounds and for reference standards. The test compounds showed significant antibacterial and antimycobacterial activity against the microbial strains used, when tested in vitro. In general, pyrazine ring and substituted thiazoline ring are essential for antimicrobial activity. Among the compounds tested, compounds 11, 12 and 40 were found to be most potent. The toxicity of most potent compounds 11, 12 and 40 were determined using hemolytic assay and minimal hemolytic concentration (MHCs) were determined. The test compounds were found to be nontoxic up to a dose level of 250 microg/mL.
5-[(2-Methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]-2,3'-bipyridine: a highly potent, orally active metabotropic glutamate subtype 5 (mGlu5) receptor antagonist with anxiolytic activity.	Structure-activity relationship studies leading to the discovery of a new, orally active mGlu5 receptor antagonist are described. The title compound, 5-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]-2,3'-bipyridine, is highly potent in vitro, has good in vivo receptor occupancy, and is efficacious in the rat fear-potentiated startle model of anxiety following oral dosing.
Syntheses of alpha-fluoro-alpha,beta-unsaturated thioamides and thiazolines from a fluorophosphonodithioacetate.	A high-yielding synthesis of methyl fluoro(diethoxyphosphono)dithioacetate starting from its difluorinated analogue is reported. Fluorophosphonothioacetamides and -methylthiazolines, prepared from this new dithioester, have been successfully transformed into highly functionalized fluoroalkenes. Good stereoselectivity in favor of the E isomer was observed from the fluorophosphonomethylthiazolines. The potential of these new fluorinated olefinating reagents for the synthesis of modified peptides and glycosides is also disclosed.
4,5-dialkylsubstituted 2-imino-1,3-thiazolidine derivatives as potent inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitors.	In the course of our search for selective iNOS inhibitors, we have previously reported that 2-imino-1,3-oxazolidine derivatives (1) and 2-aminothiazole derivatives (2) are selective iNOS inhibitors. In order to find more potent iNOS inhibitors, we focused our efforts on the synthesis and evaluation of the inhibitory activity against iNOS and selectivity for iNOS both in vitro and in vivo of a series of 2-imino-1,3-thiazolidine derivatives (3), which are analogues of 1 and 2. Our results show that among the compounds synthesized (4R,5R)-5-ethyl-2-imino-4-methyl-1,3-thiazolidine [(4R,5R)-14a: ES-1537] exhibited potent inhibitory activity and selectivity for iNOS. In addition, ES-1537 had good pharmacokinetic profile in rats with BA value of 80%. It is therefore expected that ES-1537 may be therapeutically useful for the treatment of diseases related to excess production of NO.
alpha 2-adrenoreceptors profile modulation. 2. Biphenyline analogues as tools for selective activation of the alpha 2C-subtype.	A series of derivatives structurally related to biphenyline (3) was designed with the aim to modulate selectivity toward the alpha(2)-AR subtypes. The results obtained demonstrated that the presence of a correctly oriented function with positive electronic effect (+sigma) in portion X of the ligands is an important factor for significant alpha(2C)-subtype selectivity (imidazolines 5, 13, 16, and 19). Homology modeling and docking studies support experimental data and highlight the crucial role for the hydrogen bond between the pyridine nitrogen in position 3 of 5 and the NH-indole ring of Trp6.48, which is favorably oriented in the alpha(2C)-subtype, only.
Potent N-(1,3-thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-amine vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors with excellent pharmacokinetics and low affinity for the hERG ion channel.	A series of N-(1,3-thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-amine KDR kinase inhibitors have been developed that possess optimal properties. Compounds have been discovered that exhibit excellent in vivo potency. The particular challenges of overcoming hERG binding activity and QTc increases in vivo in addition to achieving good pharmacokinetics have been acomplished by discovering a unique class of amine substituents. These compounds have a favorable kinase selectivity profile that can be accentuated with appropriate substitution.
Analgesic activity of new synthetic thiazolidine-4-ones derivatives.	Ten new synthetic thiazolidine-4-ones derivatives (5 chlorothiazolidine-4-ones, 3 methoxythiazolidine-4-ones and 2 hydoxythiazolidine-4-ones) having different substituents at R1, R2 and R3 were evaluated for their analgesic activity using different animal models and their structure activity relationship was also elucidated. Chlorothiazolidine-4-ones and methoxythiazolidine-4-ones exhibited analgesic activity in tail flick test, tail immersion test and acetic acid writhing test. C-III (chloride substituents at R1 and R2) produced higher latencies than any other compounds in tail flick test and C-I (no substituents at R1 and R2) was not effective in acetic acid writhing test. Hydroxythiazolidine-4-ones did not show analgesic activity in any of the animal models used. In conclusion, the character of substituents at R3 of thiazolidine moiety position may have an effect on the analgesic activity of thiazolidine-4-ones and either chloride or methoxy substitution may be necessary to produce analgesic activity. Two chloride substituents in a compound may increase the central analgesic activity of the compound.
Synthesis and study of antibacterial and antifungal activities of novel 2-[[(benzoxazole/benzimidazole-2-yl)sulfanyl] acetylamino]thiazoles.	Several 2-[[(benzoxazole/benzimidazole-2-yl)sulfanyl]acetylamino]thiazoles derivatives were synthesized by reacting 4-substituted-2-(chloroacetylamino)thiazoles with benzoxazole/benzimidazole-2-thioles in acetone and in the presence of K2CO3. The chemical structures of the compounds were elucidated by IR, 1H-NMR, and FAB(+)-MS spectral data. Their antimicrobial activities against Micrococcus luteus (NRLL B-4375), Bacillus cereus (NRRL B-3711), Proteus vulgaris (NRRL B-123), Salmonella typhimurium (NRRL B-4420), Staphylococcus aureus (NRRL B-767), Escherichia coli (NRRL B-3704), Candida albicans and Candida globrata (isolates obtained from Osmangazi Uni. Fac.of Medicine) were investigated and in this investigation, a significant level of activity was illustrated.
Thiosugar nucleosides. Synthesis and biological activity of 1,3,4-thiadiazole, thiazoline and thiourea derivatives of 5-thio-D-glucose.	New acylated 5-thio-beta-D-glucopyranosylimino-disusbstituted 1,3,4-thiadiazols 8, and 11 were prepared, via spontaneous rearrangements, by cycloaddition of the glycosyl isothiocyanate 2 with the reactive intermediates 1-aza-2-azoniaallene hexachloroantimonates 4 and 6, respectively. Reaction of 2 with aminoacetone or chloroethylamine afforded the acylated 5-thio-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-4-imidazoline-2-thione nucleoside 16 and glucopyranosylamino-2-thiazoline derivative 18, respectively. Deblocking of 8, 11, 17 and 19 furnished the free nucleoside analogues 9, 12, 18 and 20, respectively. Analogously, treatment of 2 with chloroethylamine in the 1:2 ratio afforded the thioureylendisaccharide 21. No in vitro antiviral activity against HIV-1, HIV-2, human cytomegallovirus (HMCV), has been found for the new synthesized compounds.
Organolithium-mediated diversification of peptide thiazoles.	[Reaction: see text] We report a one-step, racemization-free method for the diversification of peptide thiazoles via direct lithiation of the thiazole ring. The method is compatible with N-Boc, N-trityl, carboxylic ester, and carboxamide protecting groups and has been used to directly functionalize the thiazole ring of cyclopeptide natural products.
Total synthesis of (+/-)-mycothiazole and formal enantioselective approach.	[Reaction: see text] A total synthesis of (+/-)-mycothiazole and a formal enantioselective approach have been achieved from 2,4-dibromothiazole. A chain extension of a homoallylic alcohol proceeding through an unsaturated sultone intermediate, generated by ring-closing metathesis, was used as a key step for the elaboration of the conjugated (Z)-dienol moiety.
Non-peptidic small molecule inhibitors of XIAP.	Non-peptidic small molecule SMAC mimetics were designed and synthesized that bind to the BIR3 domain of XIAP using structure-based design. Substituted five-membered heterocycles such as thiazoles and imidazoles were identified that serve as replacements for peptide fragments of the lead.
Novel inhibitors of human histone deacetylases: design, synthesis, enzyme inhibition, and cancer cell growth inhibition of SAHA-based non-hydroxamates.	To find novel non-hydroxamate histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, a series of compounds modeled after suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) was designed and synthesized. In this series, compound 7, in which the hydroxamic acid of SAHA is replaced by a thiol, was found to be as potent as SAHA, and optimization of this series led to the identification of HDAC inhibitors more potent than SAHA. In cancer cell growth inhibition assay, S-isobutyryl derivative 51 showed strong activity, and its potency was comparable to that of SAHA. The cancer cell growth inhibitory activity was verified to be the result of histone hyperacetylation and subsequent induction of p21(WAF1/CIP1) by Western blot analysis. Kinetical enzyme assay and molecular modeling suggest the thiol formed by enzymatic hydrolysis within the cell interacts with the zinc ion in the active site of HDACs.
CH...O and CH...N hydrogen bonds in ligand design: a novel quinazolin-4-ylthiazol-2-ylamine protein kinase inhibitor.	Aryl CH hydrogen bonds play an important role in the binding of several analogues of a pyrazol-3-ylquinazolin-4-ylamine inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Understanding the importance of these CH...O and CH...N hydrogen bonds allowed the design of a novel quinazolin-4-ylthiazol-2-ylamine inhibitor of GSK3 with a structurally confirmed CH...O hydrogen bond to the protein.
Synthesis and biological evaluation of 2-aminothiazoles and their amide derivatives on human adenosine receptors. Lack of effect of 2-aminothiazoles as allosteric enhancers.	A number of 2-aminothiazoles (2a-e) and their amide derivatives (4-10) were prepared. The 2-aminothiazoles themselves were tested as allosteric enhancers of agonist binding to human adenosine A(1) receptors. In a variety of experimental set-ups the compounds did not show any such effect, in contrast to earlier findings by another research group. Subsequently the 2-aminothiazoles were used as intermediates in the synthesis of a number of amide derivatives of either aromatic (4-6) or aliphatic nature (7-10). Some of the compounds emerged as moderately active antagonists on human adenosine A(1) and/or A(2A) receptors with lower or negligible potency at adenosine A(3) receptors.
Concise syntheses of the cruciferous phytoalexins brassilexin, sinalexin, wasalexins, and analogues: expanding the scope of the vilsmeier formylation.	Efficient syntheses of the phytoalexins brassilexin, sinalexin, and analogues are demonstrated through the application of the Vilsmeier formylation to indoline-2-thiones followed by a new aqueous ammonia workup procedure. Similarly, a very concise two-pot synthesis of the phytoalexins wasalexins using sequential formylation-amination of indolin-2-ones is described. Remarkably, this novel aqueous ammonia workup allows the sequential one-pot formylation-amination, expanding substantially the scope of the Vilsmeier formylation of both indoline-2-thiones and indolin-2-ones. The examination of the formylation-amination reaction and optimization of conditions, as well as the syntheses and antifungal activities of several brassilexin analogues, are reported.
Diastereoselective amidoalkylation of (3S,7aR)-6-benzyl-7-hydroxy-3-phenyltetra- hydro-5H-imidazo[1,5-c][1,3]thiazol-5-one: a short and highly efficient synthesis of (+)-biotin.	A short and highly efficient synthesis of (+)-biotin in 10 steps with 20% overall yield has been achieved from L-cysteine involving amidoalkylation of hydroxy imidazothiazolone 4 via an acyliminium ion intermediate to furnish C-7-substituted imidazothiazolones 5b as the key step.
Novel cyclized Pifithrin-alpha p53 inactivators: synthesis and biological studies.	Starting from various cyclic or bicyclic ketones, we have synthesized novel Pifithrin-alpha analogues bearing different methyl substituted phenyl ketone groups at the N3-position of the 2-iminothiazole heterocycle. From stability studies in a biological medium as well as under specific chemical conditions, we have shown by NMR techniques that through a dehydration process, some derivatives can generate their corresponding cyclized analogues. All of the new analogues, Pifithrin-like and polycyclic dehydrated derivatives were assessed for their p53 inactivation potency by measuring survival of cortical neurons, whose death was induced by the DNA-damaging agent etoposide. Pifithrin-alpha like 2f as well as the cyclic dehydrated 6b analogue were found to be one log more potent p53 inactivators than reference compound Pft-alpha, with EC50 values ranging around 30 nM. These results support the finding that p53 inactivation by Pft-alpha analogues could be also due to the presence of the cyclic dehydrated Pft-alpha forms, generated in situ in the biological assay incubation medium.
A new orally bioavailable dual adenosine A2B/A3 receptor antagonist with therapeutic potential.	The synthesis and SAR of 5-heterocycle-substituted aminothiazole adenosine receptor antagonists is described. Several compounds show high affinity and selectivity for the A2B and A3 receptors. One compound (5f) shows good ADME properties in the rat and as such may be an important new compound in testing the current hypotheses proposing a therapeutic role for a dual A2B/A3 antagonist in allergic diseases.
Novel thiazolidine-2,4-diones as potent euglycemic agents.	A new series of thiazolidine-2,4-diones was obtained by replacing the ether function of englitazone with various functional groups, i.e., a ketone, alcohol, or olefin moiety. These compounds lower blood glucose levels in the genetically obese and insulin-resistant ob/ob mouse. Appending an oxazole-based group at the terminus of the chain provided highly potent compounds.
QSAR analysis of thiazole benzenesulfonamide substituted 3-pyridylethanolamines as beta3-adrenergic receptor agonist.	A quantitative structure-activity relationship study on a series of substituted benzene sulfonamide-3-pyridylethanolamines with beta3-adrenergic receptor agonist activity was made using a combination of various physiochemical descriptors. Several significant equations with good co-efficients of correlation (0.930) were obtained; the two models were selected using predictive ability of equations for test set. Both models highlight some common important structural features, that is, high electrostatic potential energy and the lipophilic nature of the molecule, favorable for beta3-adrenergic receptor agonist activity.
Redifferentiation of human hepatoma cell induced by 6-(p-chlorophenyl)-3-[1-(p-chlorophenyl)-5-methyl-1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]-s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (TDZ).	6-(p-Chlorophenyl)-3-[1-(p-chlorophenyl)-5-methyl-1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]-s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (TDZ) is a derivative of various substituted s-triazolo[3,4-b]-1,3,4-thiadiazoles, which are associated with diverse pharmacological activities. However, the antitumor activity of TDZ is not well understood. To evaluate its role on tumor cell lines, we have examined the effect of TDZ on two tumor lines: human hepatoma cell (SMMC-7721) in vitro and Sarcoma180 tumor (S180) in vivo. The cytotoxicity of TDZ on human hepatoma cells was assessed using the MTT assay. The inhibition on tumor growth was evaluated by means of trypan blue exclusion test in vitro, and using a Sarcoma180 tumor (S180) animal model in vivo. A scanning electronic microscope was used to discover the morphological changes on cell surface, cell electrophoresis was employed to determine the changes of cell surface negative charges, and alpha-fetoprotein was applied as a biomarker of hepatoma. The effect of TDZ on DNA synthesis was determined by a [3H]-thymidine incorporation assay, and cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry. The IC50 value of TDZ on SMMC-7721 cells was 52.9 microg/ml (48 h). However, TDZ could inhibit the growth of SMMC-7721 cells at concentrations far lower than the IC50 value. Treated with the same low concentrations of TDZ, microvilli on the surface of SMMC-7721 cells decreased obviously, electrophoresis rate of cells reduced from 2.14 microm ms(-1) x V(-1) x cm(-1) of control to 1.54 and 1.56 microm x s(-1) x V-1 x cm(-1), the content of AFP dropped from 205.14 +/- 6.41 ng x mg(-1) Pr to 115.68 +/- 3.47 and 78.57 +/- 2.35 ng mg(-1) Pr, and the DNA replication was inhibited by 26.8% and 45.2%. These results indicated that TDZ may inhibit proliferation of cancer cells by reversing SMMC-7721 cells malignant phenotypic characteristics and inducing redifferentiation. Flow cytometry showed that TDZ-treated cells resulted in a higher proportion of cells in S phase compared with untreated cells, and only when the concentration reached 64 microg/ml, the apoptosis could happen at the rate of 4.2%. Detection of the inhibition of Sarcoma 180 tumor growth in vivo showed that TDZ reduced the tumor weight and 69.08% of the growth was inhibited. TDZ could inhibit the proliferation of tumors in vitro and in vivo; the possible antitumor mechanism might be inducing redifferentiation at a lower dosage on vitro.
Synthesis and antimicrobial activity of 4-phenyl/cyclohexyl-5-(1-phenoxyethyl)-3-[N-(2-thiazolyl)acetamido]thio-4H-1,2,4-triazole derivatives.	The increasing clinical importance of drug-resistant fungal and bacterial pathogens has lent additional urgency to microbiological research and new antimicrobial compound development. For this purpose, new thiazole derivatives of triazoles were synthesized and evaluated for antifungal and antibacterial activity. The reaction of propionic acid hydrazides with various aryl/alkyl isothiocyanates gave thiosemicarbazides which furnished the mercaptotriazoles by alkali cyclization. The 4-phenyl/cyclohexyl-5-(1-phenoxyethyl)-3-[N-(2-thiazolyl)acetamido]thio-4H-1,2,4-triazole derivatives were synthesized by reacting the mercaptotriazoles with 2-chloro-N-(2-thiazolyl)acetamide. The chemical structures of the compounds were elucidated by IR, 1H-NMR, FAB+-MS spectral data. Their antimicrobial activities against Candida albicans (two strains), Candida glabrata, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa were investigated. The results showed that some of the compounds have very strong antifungal activity.
Synthesis of acridinyl-thiazolino derivatives and their evaluation for anti-inflammatory, analgesic and kinase inhibition activities.	Variety of N-(4-phenyl-3-(2',3',4'(un)substituted phenyl)thiazol-2(3H)-ylidene)-2,4(un)substituted acridin-9-amine (4a-o) and 1-[(2,4-(un)substituted acridin-9-yl)-3-(4-phenyl-3-(2',3',4'(un)substituted phenyl)thiazol-2(3H)-ylidene)]isothiourea (5a-h) derivatives have been synthesized by condensation of 4-phenyl-3-(2',3',4'(un)substituted phenyl)thiazol-2(3H)-imine (3a-g) with 9-chloro-2,4-(un)substituted acridine (1a-c) and 9-isothiocyanato-2,4-(un)substituted acridine (2a-d), respectively. All these compounds were characterized by correct 1H NMR, FT-IR, MS and elemental analyses. These compounds were screened for anti-inflammatory, analgesic and kinase (CDK1, CDK5 and GSK3) inhibition activities. Some compounds exhibited good anti-inflammatory (25-32%) and potent analgesic (50-75%) activities, at 50 mg/kg p.o. A compound, 4o (R1 = H, R2 = OCH3, R3 = CH3, R4 = CH3, R5 = H) exhibited moderate CDK1 (IC50 = 8.5 microM) inhibition activity.
Identification of novel, selective and potent Chk2 inhibitors.	A series of isothiazole carboxamidine compounds were synthesized and discovered as novel and selective inhibitors for Chk2. They are not active against the related Chk1 kinase. The structure-activity relationship studies were performed on the scaffold, and enzymatic kinetic analysis showed they are simple ATP competitive inhibitors with K(i) values as low as 11 nM for Chk2. Computer modeling studies were employed to comprehend the mechanism of action and SAR of these compounds.
Convenient one pot synthesis of some novel derivatives of thiazolo[2,3-b]dihydropyrimidinone possessing 4-methylthiophenyl moiety and evaluation of their antibacterial and antifungal activities.	A series of new 2-(arylidene/5-arylfurfurylidene)-5-(4-methylthiophenyl)-6-carbethoxy-7-methyl-5H-thiazolo[2,3-b]pyrimidin-3(1H)-ones 2 and 3 have been synthesized by a three component (MCR) reaction involving 4-(4-methylthiophenyl)-5-carbethoxy-6-methyl-3,4-dihydropyrimidin-2(1H)-thione 1, monochloroacetic acid and arylaldehydes/arylfurfuraldehydes, respectively. The newly synthesized compounds were well characterized by elemental analysis, IR, (1)H NMR and mass spectral studies. The newly synthesized compounds were screened for their antibacterial and antifungal activities and have exhibited moderate to excellent growth inhibition of bacteria and fungi. The results of such studies have been discussed in this paper.
Synthesis of some bioactive 2-bromo-5-methoxy-N'-[4-(aryl)-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]benzohydrazide derivatives.	Eight novel 2-bromo-5-methoxy-N'-[4-(aryl)-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]benzohydrazide derivatives were prepared and characterized by analytical and spectral analyses. All the compounds were screened for their analgesic, antifungal and antibacterial activities and three of the compounds were screened for antiproliferative activity. Two of the newly synthesized compounds exhibited promising analgesic activity and one compound exhibited in vitro antiproliferative activity.
Molecular modeling of binding between amidinobenzisothiazoles, with antidegenerative activity on cartilage, and matrix metalloproteinase-3.	The aim of the work was to investigate the mechanism of binding between human metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) and new compounds belonging to the benzisothiazolylamidines class. In vitro tests suggest that these molecules, endowed with antinflammatory and cartilage antidegenerative activity, could act as ligands toward MMP-3. In lack of experimental structural informations, we performed molecular docking simulations to probe the interactions of benzisothiazolylamidines with matrix metalloproteinase-3, using the docking package GOLD and the software HINT as a post-process scoring function. Both GOLD and HINT predicted a binding mode for the compounds under analysis within the hydrophobic S1' pocket of MMP-3, without interaction with the catalytic Zn(2+) ion. The scores assigned by the programs to the interaction between the tested benzisothiazolylamidines and human MMP-3 were consistent with a potential direct enzyme inhibitory activity. The highest affinity was predicted for the N-(benzo[d]isothiazol-3-yl)-4-chlorobenzamidine (2), emerged as the most active derivative also in the in vitro tests.
Synthesis and antimicrobial activity of 1-(4-aryl-2-thiazolyl)-3-(2-thienyl)-5-aryl-2-pyrazoline derivatives.	Several 1-(4-aryl-2-thiazolyl)-3-(2-thienyl)-5-aryl-2-pyrazoline derivatives were synthesized by reacting substituted 3-(2-thienyl)-5-aryl-1-thiocarbamoyl-2-pyrazolines with phenacyl bromides in ethanol. The structures of the synthesized compounds were confirmed by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, and EIMS spectral data. Their antimicrobial activities against Escherichia coli (NRRL B-3704), Staphylococcus aureus (NRLL B-767), Salmonella typhimurium (NRRL B-4420), Bacillus cereus (NRRL B-3711), Streptococcus faecalis (NRRL B-14617), Aeromonas hydrophila (Ankara Uni. Fac. of Veterinary), Candida albicans and Candida glabrata (isolates obtained from Osmangazi Uni. Fac. of Medicine) were investigated. A significant level of activity was observed.
Synthesis and primary cytotoxicity evaluation of new imidazo[2,1-b]thiazole derivatives.	A series of arylidenehydrazides (3a-3i) were synthesized from [6-(4-bromophenyl)imidazo[2,1-b]thiazol-3-yl]acetic acid hydrazide. The structures of new compounds were determined by analytical and spectral (IR, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, EIMS) methods. The synthesized compounds (3a-3i) were evaluated in the National Cancer Institute's 3-cell line, one dose in vitro primary cytotoxicity assay. Compounds 3a-3c, 3h and 3i which passed the criteria for activity in this assay were scheduled automatically for evaluation against the full panel of 60 human tumour cell lines at a minimum of five concentrations at 10-fold dilutions. Compounds 3c demonstrated the most marked effects on a prostate cancer cell line (PC-3, log(10)GI(50) value<-8.00).
Clubbed thiazoles by MAOS: a novel approach to cyclin-dependent kinase 5/p25 inhibitors as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease.	A novel clubbed triazolyl thiazole series of cdk5/p25 inhibitors, potentially useful for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, is disclosed. Evaluation of the SAR of substitution within these series has allowed the identification of a range of compounds which significantly reduce brain cdk5/p25 and thus have potential as possible treatments for Alzheimer's disease.
Library synthesis and screening: 2,4-diphenylthiazoles and 2,4-diphenyloxazoles as potential novel prion disease therapeutics.	Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are a family of invariably fatal neurodegenerative disorders for which no effective therapeutics are currently available. In this paper, we report on the synthesis and screening of a small library of 2,4-diphenylthiazol-5-ylamine and 2,4-diphenyloxazol-5-ylamine derivatives as potential novel prion disease therapeutics. Various synthetic strategies were investigated, including a novel phosgene-mediated cyclization of 2-N-benzoylphenylglycinonitrile, and a total of 45 compounds were synthesized. Library members were tested for both binding to prion protein (PrPC) using the surface plasmon resonance technique and for inhibition of PrPSc formation in persistently infected SMB cells. Of the compounds prepared, 15 were found to bind to human PrPC and six showed inhibition of PrPSc formation, displaying EC50s between 1.5 and 20 microM.
Asymmetric synthesis of the (S)-1,1-dioxido-isothiazolidin-3-one phosphotyrosine mimetic via reduction of a homochiral (R)-oxido-isothiazolidin-3-one.	[structure: see text]. The first asymmetric synthesis of the (S)-1,1-dioxido-isothiazolidin-3-one ((S)-IZD) pTyr mimetic, which has been incorporated into the recently reported potent protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) inhibitors, is presented herein. The key reaction is the reduction of the (R)-oxido-isothiazolidin-3-one heterocycle with excellent regiochemical and stereochemical control (>98% ee; 82% yield).
4-Aryl-1,3,2-oxathiazolylium-5-olates as pH-controlled NO-donors: the next generation of S-nitrosothiols.	S-Nitrosothiols (RSNOs) are important exogenous and endogenous sources of nitric oxide (NO) in biological systems. A series of 4-aryl-1,3,2-oxathiazolylium-5-olates derivatives with varying aryl para-substituents (-CF3, -H, -Cl, and -OCH3) were synthesized. These compounds were found to release NO under acidic condition (pH = 5). The decomposition pathway of the aryloxathiazolyliumolates proceeded via an acid-catalyzed ring-opening mechanism after which NO was released and an S-centered radical was generated. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin trapping studies were performed to detect NO and the S-centered radical using the spin traps of iron(II) N-methyl-D-glucamine dithiocarbamate [(MGD)2-FeII] and 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide (DMPO). Also, EPR spin trapping and UV-vis spectrophotometry were used to analyze the effect of aryl para substitution on the NO-releasing property of aryloxathiazolyliumolates. The results showed that the presence of an electron-withdrawing substituent such as -CF3 enhanced the NO-releasing capability of the aryloxathiazolyliumolates, whereas an electron-donating substituent like methoxy (-OCH3) diminished it. Computational studies using density functional theory (DFT) at the PCM/B3LYP/6-31+G**//B3LYP/6-31G* level were used to rationalize the experimental observations. The aryloxathiazolyliumolates diminished susceptibility to reduction by ascorbate or gluthathione, and their capacity to cause vasodilation as compared to other S-nitrosothiols suggests potential application in biological systems.
Photoluminescent and liquid-crystalline properties of donor-acceptor-type 2,5-diarylthiazoles.	The synthesis of donor-acceptor-type 2,5-diarylthiazoles that bear electron-donating N,N-dialkylamine and electron-withdrawing cyano groups at the 2- and 5-position, respectively, were carried out with transition-metal-catalyzed C-H arylation reactions developed by us. The compounds were synthesized by the C-H arylation of unsubstituted thiazole at the 2-position with a palladium/copper catalyst in the presence of tetrabutylammonium fluoride (TBAF) as an activator. Further C-H arylation of the 2-arylated thiazole at the 5-position was carried out by the palladium-catalyzed reaction in the presence of silver(I) fluoride to afford the donor-acceptor-type 2,5-diarylthiazoles with N,N-dialkylamine groups of different chain lengths. The UV/Vis absorption, photoluminescence, and electrochemical behavior were similar regardless of chain length, whereas liquid-crystalline behavior and thermal characteristics were found to be dependent on the alkyl-chain length. The compounds with N,N-diethylamine or N-butyl-N-methyl groups showed a stable liquid-crystalline phase over a wide temperature range as well as higher stability to thermal decomposition.
Synthesis of new S-derivatives of clubbed triazolyl thiazole as anti-Mycobacterium tuberculosis agents.	In the present study, a series of N-{4-[(4-amino-5-sulfanyl-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methyl]-1,3-thiazol-2-yl}-2-substituted-amide (1a-d) derivatives were synthesized in good yields and characterized by IR, 1H NMR, mass spectral and elemental analyses. The compounds were evaluated for their preliminary in vitro antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella typhosa and then were screened for antitubercular activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37 Rv strain by broth microdilution assay method. The antibacterial data of the tested compounds indicated that most of the synthesized compounds showed better activity against bacteria compared to reference drugs. The in vitro antitubercular activity reports of tested compounds against M. tuberculosis strain H37 Rv showed moderate to better activity.
3,4,5-triarylisothiazoles via C-C coupling chemistry.	The regiocontrolled preparation of triarylisothiazoles is presented. 3-Halo-5-phenylisothiazole-4-carbonitriles, 1 (hal=Cl) and 18 (hal=I), are converted into the corresponding 4-bromo derivatives 5 (3-hal=Cl) and 24 (3-hal=I) via a Hunsdiecker strategy while the 4-iodo analogues 7 (3-hal=Cl) and 22 (3-hal=I) are prepared via a Hoffmann and Sandmeyer strategy. Regioselective Suzuki, Stille and Negishi reactions occur at C-4 with both the 4-bromo- and 4-iodoisothiazoles 5 and 7 , the latter being more reactive than the former. 3-Iodoisothiazoles 22 and 24 fail to give regiocontrolled Suzuki, Stille or Negishi couplings, however, 4-bromo-3-iodo-5-phenylisothiazole 24 gives the regiospecific palladium catalysed Ullmann-type reaction product 3,3'-bi(4-bromo-5-phenylisothiazole) 25 . Alkali hydrolysis of 3-chloro-4,5-diphenylisothiazole 8 gives the 3-hydroxy analogue 12 which is converted into 3-bromo-4,5-diphenylisothiazole 13 with POBr(3). 3-Bromoisothiazole 13 reacts with phenylzinc chloride to give 3,4,5-triphenylisothiazole 17 but fails to undergo effective Suzuki or Stille couplings. 3,5-Diphenylisothiazole-4-carbonitrile 26 is converted into the 4-bromo- and 4-iodo-3,5-diphenylisothiazoles 30 and 34 both of which are effective for Suzuki and Stille couplings. A series of triarylisothiazoles are prepared in this manner and fully characterised.
Synthesis and antitumor evaluation of novel derivatives of 6-amino-2-phenylbenzothiazoles.	Novel derivatives of 6-amino-2-phenylbenzothiazole bearing different substituents (amino, dimethylamino or fluoro) on the phenyl ring were prepared as the corresponding hydrochloride salts. 6-Nitro-2-(substituted-phenyl)benzothiazoles (1-6) were synthesized by condensation reactions of substituted benzaldehydes with 2-amino-5-nitrothiophenol. Nitro derivatives were reduced to the amino derivatives with SnCl(2)/HCl. Water soluble hydrochloride salts of 6-amino-2-(substituted-phenyl)benzothiazole (13-19)were prepared using concentrated or gaseous HCl. Compounds 13-19 were found to exert cytostatic activities against malignant human cell lines: cervical (HeLa), breast (MCF-7),colon (CaCo-2), laryngeal carcinoma (Hep-2), and normal human fibroblast cell lines (WI-38).
One-pot synthesis of 5-arylidene-2-imino-4-thiazolidinones under microwave irradiation.	A rapid and easy solvent free one-pot synthesis of 5-arylidene-2-imino-4-thiazolidinones by condensation of the thioureas with chloroacetic acid and an aldehyde under microwave-irradiation is described.
Styrylpyrazoles, styrylisoxazoles, and styrylisothiazoles. Novel 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase inhibitors.	A series of styrylpyrazoles, styrylisoxazoles, and styrylisothiazoles were prepared and found to be dual inhibitors of 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase in rat basophilic leukemia cells. Compounds from this series also were found to inhibit the in vivo production of LTB4 when dosed orally in rats. Among these compounds, di-tert-butylphenols 19 and 33 exhibit oral activity in various models of inflammation and, most importantly, are devoid of ulcerogenic potential.
New 2-amino-thiazole-4-acetamides with antiplatelet activity.	In the Born test, 23 title compounds were synthesized and investigated for their antiplatelet activities against collagen, ADP, adrenaline, and platelet-activating factor (PAF) as inducers of the aggregation. Using collagen, three compounds with IC(50) values below 10 microM were found (3a, 3b, 3c) and 15 compounds with IC(50) values between 10 and 100 microM were determined. In general, a cyclohexylamino rest on an 4-carboxamide moiety is a pre-requisite for this pharmacological activity. A clear dependence from the substituent R(1) in the structural element Y is observed. The same is true for the spacer n in the 4-carboxamide substituent. Compound 3e showed strong ADP-antagonistic effects (IC(50) = 2.2 nM); 3c antagonized adrenaline (IC(50) = 2.8 nM), while 3n was highly effective against platelet-activating factor (IC(50) = 0.2 microM).
Novel design principle validated: glucopyranosylidene-spiro-oxathiazole as new nanomolar inhibitor of glycogen phosphorylase, potential antidiabetic agent.	2-Naphthyl-substituted glucopyranosylidene-spiro-oxathiazole prepared following a novel design principle was found to be the best known glucose analogue inhibitor of rabbit muscle glycogen phosphorylase b (K(i) 160 nM).
Novel, potent aldose reductase inhibitors: 3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-benzothiazolyl] methyl]-1-phthalazineacetic acid (zopolrestat) and congeners.	A new working hypothesis that there is a hitherto unrecognized binding site on the aldose reductase (AR) enzyme with strong affinity for benzothiazoles was pursued for the design of novel, potent aldose reductase inhibitors (ARIs). The first application of this hypothesis led to a novel series of 3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-(benzothiazolylmethyl)-1-phthalazineacetic+ + + acids. The parent of this series (207) was a potent inhibitor of AR from human placenta (IC50 = 1.9 x 10(-8) M) and was orally active in preventing sorbitol accumulation in rat sciatic nerve, in an acute test of diabetic complications (ED50 = 18.5 mg/kg). Optimization of this lead through medicinal chemical rationale, including analogy from other drug series, led to more potent congeners of 207 and culminated in the design of 3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-benzothiazolyl] methyl]-1-phthalazineacetic acid (216, CP-73,850, zopolrestat). Zopolrestat was found to be more potent than 207, both in vitro and in vivo. Its IC50 against AR and ED50 in the acute test were 3.1 x 10(-9)M and 3.6 mg/kg, respectively. Its ED50s in reversing already elevated sorbitol accumulation in rat sciatic nerve, retina, and lens in a chronic test were 1.9, 17.6, and 18.4 mg/kg, respectively. It was well absorbed in diabetic patients, resulting in high blood level, showed a highly favorable plasma half-life (27.5 h), and is undergoing further clinical evaluation. An assortment of synthetic methods used for the construction of benzothiazoles, including an efficient synthesis of zopolrestat, is described. Structure-activity relationships in the new series are discussed.
One-pot, three-component, domino Heck-aza-Michael approach to libraries of functionalized 1,1-dioxido-1,2-benzisothiazoline-3-acetic acids.	A sequential three-component synthesis of functionalized benzisothiazoline-3-acetic acid 1,1-dioxides utilizing a domino Heck-aza-Michael pathway is reported. This one-pot procedure rapidly assembles functionalized benzylsulfonamides, which undergo a palladium-catalyzed, domino, Heck-aza-Michael transformation in an experimentally straightforward manner. This attractive protocol has been utilized to synthesize three combinatorial sublibraries (I-III) comprising a total of 95 compounds in high purities (> or =95% for 75 compounds), yield and quantities.
Synthesis and biological activity of novel 3-(2-propenyl)-cephalosporins. II. Preparation of prodrugs.	Three prodrug esters (2a approximately 2c) of 3-(2-propenyl)cephem (1a) have been prepared and their oral absorption was determined in rats and mice. While pivaloyloxymethyl ester (2a) did not improve the oral absorption of the parent cephem 1a, [(1-methyl)ethoxycarbonyloxy]ethyl ester (2b) and (5-methyl-2-oxo-1,3-dioxolen-4-yl)methyl ester (2c) improved oral absorption by a factor of five.
Spiro[fluoreneisothiazolidin]one dioxides: new aldose reductase and L-hexonate dehydrogenase inhibitors.	The first examples of spiro[fluorene-9,4'- and -9,5'-isothiazolidin]one dioxides (1 and 2) were synthesized and screened for activity as aldose reductase and L-hexonate dehydrogenase inhibitors. Compared to compounds 1, and 9,5'-compounds 2, synthesized from fluorene-9-sulfonamides by alkylation at C(9) with ethyl bromoacetate followed by cyclization, were more active, but relatively nonselective, inhibitors of aldose reductase and L-hexonate dehydrogenase, with IC50 values for in vitro inhibition of both enzymes on the order of 10(-7)-10(-8) M. However, the isomeric 9,4'-compounds 1, prepared by alkylation of fluorene-9-carboxylic acid esters with bromo- or iodomethanesulfonamide followed by cyclization, were more selective inhibitors of L-hexonate dehydrogenase with IC50 values of about 10(-6) M.
Substituted dihydrobenzopyran and dihydrobenzofuran thiazolidine-2,4-diones as hypoglycemic agents.	A series of dihydrobenzofuran and dihydrobenzopyran thiazolidine-2,4-diones (compounds 3-26) was synthesized from the corresponding aryl aldehydes 1 in two steps. These compounds represent conformationally restricted analogues of the novel hypoglycemic ciglitazone. The series was evaluated by hypoglycemic effects in vitro by measuring stimulation of 2-deoxyglucose uptake in L6 myocytes and stimulation of expression of the glucose transporter protein in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In vivo hypoglycemic effects were evaluated in the genetically obese ob/ob mouse, and structure-activity relationships are discussed. On the basis of this in vivo potency, we have selected the 2(R)-benzylbenzopyran derivative to be further studied in a clinical setting.
Facile preparation of 3-substituted benzisothiazoles from o-mercaptoacylphenones.	A synthesis of 3-substituted benzisothiazoles starting from readily available o-mercaptoacylphenones is presented. The key cyclization step features a mild S-nitrosation and its succeeding intramolecular aza-Wittig reaction leading to the construction of the title compounds.
SAR and optimization of thiazole analogs as potent stearoyl-CoA desaturase inhibitors.	Elevated stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) activity has been linked to a number of metabolic disorders including obesity and type II diabetes. Compound 3j, a potent SCD inhibitor (human HepG2 IC(50)=1nM) was identified from the optimization of a lead thiazole compound MF-152 with over 100-fold improvement in potency. In a 4-week chronic oral dosing at 0.2mg/kg, 3j gave a robust 24% prevention of body weight gain in mice fed on a high fat diet accompanied with an improved metabolic profile on insulin and glucose levels.
2-Aminothiadiazole inhibitors of AKT1 as potential cancer therapeutics.	A series of 2-aminothiadiazole of inhibitors of AKT1 is described. SAR relationships are discussed, along with selectivity for protein kinase A (PKA) and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2). Moderate selectivity observed in several compounds for AKT1 versus PKA is rationalized by X-ray crystallographic analysis. Key compounds showed activity in cellular assays measuring phosphorylation of two AKT substrates, PRAS40 and FKHRL1. Compound 30 was advanced to a mouse liver PD assay, where it showed dose-dependent inhibition of AKT activity, as measured by the inhibition of phospho-PRAS40.
2-Anilino-4-aryl-1,3-thiazole inhibitors of valosin-containing protein (VCP or p97).	Valosin-containing protein (VCP; also known as p97) is a member of the AAA ATPase family with a central role in the ubiquitin-degradation of misfolded proteins. VCP also exhibits antiapoptotic function and metastasis via activation of nuclear factor kappa-B signaling pathway. We have discovered that 2-anilino-4-aryl-1,3-thiazoles are potent drug-like inhibitors of this enzyme. The identified compounds show low nanomolar VCP potency, demonstrate SAR trends, and show activity in a mechanism based cellular assay. This series of compounds represents the first steps towards a novel, small molecule VCP inhibitor as a cancer therapeutic.
Exploration of SAR features by modifications of thiazoleacetic acids as CRTH2 antagonists.	The SAR features have been further explored for (2-benzhydryl-4-phenyl-thiazol-5-yl)acetic acids as CRTH2 (chemoattractant receptor-homologous molecule expressed on Th2 cells) antagonists. The introduction of a nitrogen or a methyl substituent in the benzhydrylic position offer two alternative drugable scaffolds attractive for unsymmetrically substituted derivatives. An imidazole analogue lacks activity due to formation of a favored coplanar intramolecular hydrogen bond. The pyrimidine derivative 18 represents a potent and selective compound that will be subject to continued investigations.
Synthesis of some thiazole-, 1,3,4-thiadiazole-, and 4H-1,2,4-triazole derivatives of pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinoline.	Three novel series of pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinolines were prepared, namely: 1-(3-substituted-4-phenylthiazolin-2-ylidene)hydrazinocarbonylm ethyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinolines 3a-d; 1-(5-substituted amino-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)methyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinolines 4b-d, and 1-(4-substituted-4H-5- thioxo-1,2,4-triazole-3-yl)methyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinolines 5a-d. These compounds were prepared by cyclization of the new key intermediates 1-(substituted thiocarbamoylhydrazinocarbonyl)methyl-1H- pyrazolo[3,4-b]quinolines 2a-d. The alkylthio, aralkylthio 6a-f as well as the Mannich bases 8a-f derived from compounds 5a-d were also prepared. The structures of the new compounds were elucidated by elemental analyses, IR, 1H-NMR-, and mass spectra. The antimicrobial as well as inotropic and chronotropic activities were studied.
Practical synthesis of PC190723, an inhibitor of the bacterial cell division protein FtsZ.	A high-yielding and practical synthesis of the bacterial cell division inhibitor PC190723 is described. The synthesis is completed in a longest linear sequence of five steps from commercially available starting materials and can be readily executed on a multigram scale. 
Two-step Hantzsch based macrocyclization approach for the synthesis of thiazole-containing cyclopeptides.	Macrocyclization via an efficient high-yielding solid-phase intramolecular thioalkylation reaction is described. The reaction of S-nucleophiles with newly generated N-terminal 4-chloromethyl thiazoles led to the desired macrocyclization products 5 in high purities and good overall yields. 
Discovery of 7-N-piperazinylthiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidine analogues as a novel class of immunosuppressive agents with in vivo biological activity.	Herein we describe the synthesis and in vitro and in vivo activity of thiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidines as a novel class of immunosuppressive agents, useful for preventing graft rejection after organ transplantation. This research resulted in the discovery of a series of compounds with potent activity in the mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay, which is well-known as the in vitro model for in vivo rejection after organ transplantation. The most potent congeners displayed IC(50) values of less than 50 nM in this MLR assay and hence are equipotent to cyclosporin A, a clinically used immunosuppressive drug. One representative of this series was further evaluated in a preclinical animal model of organ transplantation and showed excellent in vivo efficacy. It validates these compounds as new promising immunosuppressive drugs.
Characterization of the lnmKLM genes unveiling key intermediates for -alkylation in leinamycin biosynthesis.	Leinamycin (LNM, 1) biosynthesis is proposed to involve -alkylation of the polyketide intermediate, catalyzed by LnmKLM. Inactivation of lnmK, lnmL, or lnmM afforded mutant strains that accumulated LNM K-1 (2), K-2 (3), K-3 (4), and isomers LNM K-1' (5), K-2' (6), and K-3' (7) whose polyketide origin was established by feeding experiments with sodium [1-(13)C]acetate. These findings confirm the indispensability of LnmKLM in 1 biosynthesis and suggest that -alkylation proceeds on the growing polyketide intermediate while bound to the LNM polyketide synthase.
Synthesis of benzologues of Nitazoxanide and Tizoxanide: a comparative study of their in vitro broad-spectrum antiprotozoal activity.	We have synthesized two new benzologues of Nitazoxanide (NIT) and Tizoxanide (TIZ), using a short synthetic route. Both compounds were tested in vitro against six protozoa (Giardia intestinalis, Trichomonas vaginalis, Entamoeba histolytica, Plasmodium berghei, Leishmania mexicana and Trypanosoma cruzi). Compound 1 (benzologue of NIT) showed broad antiprotozoal effect against all parasites tested, showing IC(50)'s<5 M. This compound was five-times more active than NIT, and 18-times more potent than metronidazole against G. intestinalis. It was 10-times more active than pentamidine against L. mexicana, and it was sevenfold more potent than benznidazole versus T. cruzi. This compound could be considered as a new broad spectrum antiprotozoal agent.
Antineoplastic activity of the thiazolo[5,4-b]quinoline derivative D3CLP in K-562 cells is mediated through effector caspases activation.	Thiazolo[5,4-b]quinolines are compounds structurally related to m-Amsacrine (m-Amsa), a potent antileukemic drug that intercalates to DNA and inhibits topoisomerase II in vitro inducing cell death. The clinical use of m-Amsa and other neoplastic drugs is limited due to side effects and drug resistance. In the present study we evaluated one thiazolo[5,4-b]quinoline derivate, 9-[(3-chloro)phenylamine]-2-[3-(diethylamine)propylamine]thiazolo[5,4-b]quinoline (D3CLP), considered isosteric with 9-anilinoacridines, in order to determine its relative cytotoxic activity in tumoral versus non-tumoral cells, as well as the cell death mechanism induced by D3CLP on K-562 human leukemia cells. D3CLP was found to be four times more cytotoxic to tumor cells than Peripheral Blood Monocyte Cells (PBMCs). On the other hand, D3CLP induces cell death without previous cell cycle arrest at any phase, as shown by flow cytometry after 12h of exposure to this compound. Interestingly, we detected a subdiploid peak 24h after treatment. Signs of apoptosis were evident, as detected by TUNEL positive cells, chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. Effector caspases activation were assessed with peak activity at 24h after treatment (as detected by fluorometry assays), at which time a subdiploid peak was found in flow cytometry histograms. All data are consistent with the induction of apoptotic cell death in K-562 cells via effector caspases activation. In conclusion, the significant cytotoxicity of D3CLP together with the cell death type it produces, justifies further experimental and preclinical evaluation of this compound in the effort to find new and highly specific anti-tumor agents against leukemia cells.
Design of novel and potent cPLA2 inhibitors containing an -methyl-2-ketothiazole as a metabolically stable serine trap.	We report the design of novel, potent cPLA(2) inhibitors that possess an -methyl-2-ketothiazole that acts as a serine-reactive moiety. We describe the optimization of the series for potency and metabolic stability towards ketone reduction. This was achieved by attenuating the reactivity of the ketone using a combination of electronic and steric effects.
Potent and selective small molecule inhibitors of specific isoforms of Cdc2-like kinases (Clk) and dual specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinases (Dyrk).	Continued examination of substituted 6-arylquinazolin-4-amines as Clk4 inhibitors resulted in selective inhibitors of Clk1, Clk4, Dyrk1A and Dyrk1B. Several of the most potent inhibitors were validated as being highly selective within a comprehensive kinome scan.
Radiosynthesis and preliminary evaluation of 4-[18F]fluoro-N-[4-[6-(isopropylamino)pyrimidin-4-yl]-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]-N-methylbenzamide as a new positron emission tomography ligand for metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1.	The purpose of this study was to develop 4-[(18)F]fluoro-N-[4-[6-(isopropylamino)pyrimidin-4-yl]-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]-N-methylbenzamide ([(18)F]FITM, [(18)F]4) as a new PET ligand for imaging metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 (mGluR1). [(18)F]4 was synthesized by [(18)F]fluorination of a novel nitro precursor 3 with [(18)F]KF in the presence of Kryptofix 222. At the end of synthesis, 429-936 MBq (n=8) of [(18)F]4 was obtained with >99% radiochemical purity and 204-559GBq/mol specific activity starting from 6.7 to 13.0 GBq of [(18)F]F(-). The brain distribution of [(18)F]4 was determined by the in vitro and ex vivo autoradiography using rat brain sections. The in vitro and in vivo specific binding of [(18)F]4 to mGluR1 was detected in the cerebellum, thalamus, hippocampus, and striatum. These results suggest that [(18)F]4 is a promising PET ligand for the in vivo evaluation of mGluR1.
Discovery and development of thiazolo[3,2-a]pyrimidinone derivatives as general inhibitors of Bcl-2 family proteins.	A class of compounds with a common thiazolo[3,2-a]pyrimidinone motif has been developed as general inhibitors of Bcl-2 family proteins. The lead compound was originally identified in a random screening of a small compound library using a fluorescence polarization-based competitive binding assay. Its binding to the Bcl-x(L) protein was further confirmed by (15) N-HSQC NMR experiments. Structural modifications on the lead compound were guided by the outcomes of molecular modeling studies. Among the 42 compounds obtained, a number of them exhibited much improved binding affinities to Bcl-2 family proteins as compared to the lead compound. The most potent compound, BCL-LZH-40, inhibited the binding of BH3 peptides to Bcl-x(L), Bcl-2, and Mcl-1 with inhibition constants (K(i)) of 17, 534, and 200nM, respectively.
Synthesis, antibacterial activity and quantum-chemical studies of novel 2-arylidenehydrazinyl-4-arylthiazole analogues.	A new series of 2-arylidenehydrazinyl-4-arylthiazole derivatives (2a-k) was designed and synthesized through a rapid, simple, and efficient methodology in excellent isolated yield. These compounds were screened for in vitro antimicrobial activities against eight bacteria, e.g. Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus megaterium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Shigella dysenteriae, Salmonella typhi, Escherichia coli, and three fungi e.g. Aspergillus oryzae, Candida albicans, and Saccharomyces cerevis. The results indicate that some of the compounds exhibit strong antibacterial activity, depending on the bacterial strain, but show virtually no antifungal activity. The structure-antibacterial activity relationships were studied using some physicochemical and quantum-chemical parameters with the ab initio Hartree-Fock model at the RHF/6-31G level of theory. A good qualitative correlation between predicted lipophilic parameters and antibacterial activity has been found.
Convergent synthesis and biological evaluation of 2-amino-4-(3',4',5'-trimethoxyphenyl)-5-aryl thiazoles as microtubule targeting agents.	Combretastatin A-4, a potent tubulin polymerization inhibitor, caused us to synthesize a novel series of 2-amino-4-(3',4',5'-trimethoxyphenyl)-5-aryl thiazoles with the goal of evaluating the effects of substituents on the phenyl at the 5-position of the thiazole skeleton on biological activities. An ethoxy group at the para-position produced the most active compound in the series, with IC(50) values of 0.03-0.9 nM against five of seven cancer cell lines. The most active compounds retained full activity in multidrug resistant cancer cells and acted through the colchicine site of tubulin. Treated cells were arrested in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle, with cell death proceeding through an apoptotic pathway that was only partially caspase-dependent. Preliminary results suggest that, in addition to cell death by apoptosis, cells were also killed via mitotic catastrophe as an alternative cell death mechanism.
Structure-activity relationships of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) dual inhibitors: investigations of various 6,5-heterocycles to improve metabolic stability.	N-(6-(6-Chloro-5-(4-fluorophenylsulfonamido)pyridin-3-yl)benzo[d]thiazol-2-yl)acetamide (1) is a potent and efficacious inhibitor of PI3K and mTOR in vitro and in vivo. However, in hepatocyte and in vivo metabolism studies, 1 was found to undergo deacetylation on the 2-amino substituent of the benzothiazole. As an approach to reduce or eliminate this metabolic deacetylation, a variety of 6,5-heterocyclic analogues were examined as an alternative to the benzothiazole ring. Imidazopyridazine 10 was found to have similar in vitro potency and in vivo efficacy relative to 1, while only minimal amounts of the corresponding deacetylated metabolite of 10 were observed in hepatocytes.
Discovery of novel Thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl hydrazone-based cyclin-dependent kinase 4 inhibitors: synthesis, biological evaluation and structure-activity relationships.	The design, synthesis, and evaluation of novel thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl hydrazone analogues as cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) inhibitors are described. In continuing our program aim to search for potent CDK4 inhibitors, the introduction of a thiazole group at the hydrazone part has led to marked enhancement of chemical stability. Furthermore, by focusing on the optimization at the C-4' position of the thiazole ring and the C-6 position of the thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine moiety, compound 35 has been identified with efficacy in a xenograft model of HCT116 cells. In this paper, the potency, selectivity profile, and structure-activity relationships of our synthetic compounds are discussed.
Synthesis and antitumor evaluation of novel benzo[d]pyrrolo[2,1-b]thiazole derivatives.	A series of novel 2,3-bis(hydroxymethyl)benzo[d]pyrrolo[2,1-b]thiazoles and their bis(alkylcarbamate) derivatives were synthesized starting from benzothiazole via reaction with dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate (DMAD)/tetra-fluoro boric acid, catalytic hydrogenation, and alkylcarbamoylation. The anti-proliferative activity of these agents against human leukemia and various solid tumor cell growth in vitro was studied. The structure-activity relationship studies revealed that the bis(alkylcarbamates) derivatives are generally more cytotoxic than the corresponding bis(hydroxymethyl) congeners in inhibiting human lymphoblastic leukemia CCRF-CEM and various human solid tumor cell growth in culture. These agents have no cross-resistance to taxol or vinblastine. Studies on the therapeutic effect against human breast carcinoma MX-1 xenograft showed that complete tumor remission (CR) were achieved by treating with C1-4'-F- or C1-4'-Cl-Ph-bis(i-propylcarbamates) derivatives (19b and 19c, respectively) and more than 99% tumor suppression by the corresponding bis(ethylcarbamates) 18b and 18c at the maximal tolerated dose. Alkaline agarose gel shifting assay revealed that the newly synthesized compounds are able to induce DNA interstrand cross-linking. The present studies generated a series of new potent DNA interstrand cross-linking agents, which have potential for further antitumor drug development.
Design, synthesis, and antiviral activity of entry inhibitors that target the CD4-binding site of HIV-1.	The CD4 binding site on HIV-1 gp120 has been validated as a drug target to prevent HIV-1 entry to cells. Previously, we identified two small molecule inhibitors consisting of a 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine ring linked by an oxalamide to a p-halide-substituted phenyl group, which target this site, specifically, a cavity termed "Phe43 cavity". Here we use synthetic chemistry, functional assessment, and structure-based analysis to explore variants of each region of these inhibitors for improved antiviral properties. Alterations of the phenyl group and of the oxalamide linker indicated that these regions were close to optimal in the original lead compounds. Design of a series of compounds, where the tetramethylpiperidine ring was replaced with new scaffolds, led to improved antiviral activity. These new scaffolds provide insight into the surface chemistry at the entrance of the cavity and offer additional opportunities by which to optimize further these potential-next-generation therapeutics and microbicides against HIV-1.
Biological and anti-inflammatory evaluation of two thiazole compounds in RAW cell line: potential cyclooxygenase-2 specific inhibitors.	The anti-inflammatory effect of two new thiazoles derivatives CX-32 (N-[4-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]acetamide) and CX-35 (4-(2-amino-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)-2-methoxyphenol), was investigated in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cell line. Synthesis, structure analysis and purity of these compounds were evaluated by high performance liquid chromatography, H1 NMR, and C13 NMR. Assessment of CX-32 and CX-35 inhibitory effect on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity was achieved by incubating LPS-activated RAW cells with 25 M, 50 M or 100 M of CX-32 or CX-35 respectively. Levels of secreted PGE2 were evaluated by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and levels of COX-2 protein were measured by western blot. Finally, cell viability experiments were undertaken to assess the toxicity of each compound. Treatment of LPS-activated RAW cells with 25 M, 50 M, or 100 M of CX-35 or CX-32 respectively, prevented the production of prostaglandins, but was without effect on COX-2 protein levels. Moreover, CX-35 and CX-32 reduced PGE2 production to levels comparable to those obtained in LPS-activated RAW cells incubated with the selective COX-2 inhibitor NS 398. Furthermore, both CX-32 and CX-35 showed no toxic effects, since viability of non-treated Hela cells was similar to Hela cells incubated with either CX-35 or CX-32. Our data demonstrated that CX-32 and CX-35 significantly blocked prostaglandin production induced during inflammatory cellular stress, possibly acting through specific COX-2 inhibition; confirmation of this hypothesis requires further investigation.
Anticancer and radiosensitizing evaluation of some new pyranothiazole-Schiff bases bearing the biologically active sulfonamide moiety.	The present work reports the synthesis of some new Schiff bases, 5-(substituted benzylideneamino)-6-cyano-7H-7-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulphamoylphenylamino) pyrano[2,3-d]thiazole (5-15). The design of the structures of these compounds complies with the general pharmacophoric requirements for CA inhibiting anticancer drugs. The newly synthesized compounds were evaluated for their in vitro anticancer activity against human breast cancer cell line (MCF7). Most of the screened compounds showed interesting cytotoxic activities compared to doxorubicin as a reference drug. Compounds 4, 6-8 and 11 (IC(50): 27.51, 10.25, 9.55, 9.39 and 9.70 M, respectively) exhibited higher cytotoxic activities than the reference drug doxorubicin (IC(50): 32.00 M). Additionally, the previously mentioned compounds were evaluated again for their ability to enhance the cell killing effect of -radiation.
Disulfide prodrugs of albitiazolium (T3/SAR97276): synthesis and biological activities.	We report herein the design, synthesis, and biological screening of a series of 15 disulfide prodrugs as precursors of albitiazolium bromide (T3/SAR97276, compound 1), a choline analogue which is currently being evaluated in clinical trials (phase II) for severe malaria. The corresponding prodrugs are expected to revert back to the active bis-thiazolium salt through an enzymatic reduction of the disulfide bond. To enhance aqueous solubility of these prodrugs, an amino acid residue (valine or lysine) or a phosphate group was introduced on the thiazolium side chain. Most of the novel derivatives exhibited potent in vitro antimalarial activity against P. falciparum. After oral administration, the cyclic disulfide prodrug 8 showed the best improvement of oral efficacy in comparison to the parent drug.
Highly enantio- and diastereoselective vinylogous aldol reaction by LiCl-assisted BINOL-titanium species.	The first highly enantio- and diastereoselective vinylogous aldol reaction between propionyl acetate-derived Brassard's diene and aldehydes was accomplished by titanium-lithium combined Lewis acid, affording -hydroxy--methyl--methoxy acrylates. This methodology was utilized in convenient and concise construction of the polypropionate moiety in cystothiazole A and melithiazole C.
Molecular modelling design, synthesis and cytotoxic evaluation of certain substituted 2-(3,4,5-triacetoxybenzoylamino)benzo[d]thiazole and 2-(galloylamino)benzo[d]thiazole derivatives having potential topoisomerase-I inhibitory activity.	New 2-(3,4,5-triacetoxybenzoylamino)benzothiazoles (4a~5f) and 2-(galloylamino)benzothiazoles (6a~7f), were designed as topoisomerase-I inhibitors. Compare/fit studies between these molecules and the generated topoisomerase-I inhibitors hypothesis revealed that 4a~5f have higher fitting values than (6a~7f). Also, docking of 4a~7f with the topoisomerase-I enzyme prioritized the higher activity of (4a~5f) than (6a~7f). These molecules were synthesized and biologically evaluated for their in vitro cytotoxic activity against Hela and MCF7 human cancer cell lines in comparison to Camptothecin (topo-I inhibitor) and doxorubicin (topo-II inhibitors) as reference drugs. Such screening revealed that compounds 4d, 4e, 4h, 5b, 5c and 5e have comparable higher cytotoxic activity in both cultures than these reference drugs. The highest active molecule was 5f that gave 1.5 folds higher cytotoxic activity against Hela cell cultures and 1.9 folds higher activity against MCF7 cell lines than doxorubicin and 1.6 folds and 2.2 folds higher activity towards the two respective cultures than Camptothecin. 
Synthesis and selective inhibitory activity against human COX-1 of novel 1-(4-substituted-thiazol-2-yl)-3,5-di(hetero)aryl-pyrazoline derivatives.	Novel 1-(4-ethyl carboxylate-thiazol-2-yl)-3,5-di(hetero)aryl-2-pyrazoline derivatives were obtained by reacting 3,5-di(hetero)aryl-1-thiocarbamoyl-2-pyrazolines with the ethyl ester of -bromo-pyruvic acid. The synthesized compounds were confirmed by spectroscopic data and assayed to evaluate their in vitro ability to inhibit both isoforms of human cyclooxygenase (hCOX). Some derivatives (compounds 5, 6, 13, 16, and 17) displayed promising selectivity against hCOX-1 in the micromolar range and were shown to have a selectivity index similar or better than the reference drugs (indometacin, diclofenac). The introduction of a phenyl or a 4-F-phenyl ring on the C5 associated with a 4-substituted phenyl or a heteroaryl group on the C3 of (4-substituted-thiazol-2-yl)pyrazoline derivatives improved the activity against hCOX-1. Thanks to these preliminary results it could be possible to extend our knowledge of the pharmacophoric requirements for the discovery of new pyrazoline-based hCOX-1 inhibitors.
Synthesis, structure-activity analysis, and biological evaluation of sanguinamide B analogues.	We report the first synthesis of sanguinamide B analogues. Substituting N-methylated (N-Me) amino acids, glycine (Gly), and L- or D-phenylalanine (Phe) into the backbone of sanguinamide B showed that only l- and d-Phe residues controlled the macrocycle conformation. The N-methylated and glycine analogues all had multiple conformations, whereas the L- and D-Phe derivatives only had a single conformation. Testing of all conformer analogues showed that inclusion of an L- or D-Phe was a superior design element than incorporating the N-Me moiety that is often utilized to control macrocyclic conformation. Finally, we show that there is an ideal Phe residue (in this case L-Phe) for generating compounds that have the greatest inhibitory effect on bacterial motility. Our data support the hypothesis that the macrocyclic conformation is dictated by the benzyl moiety requiring a "pseudoequatorial" position, and all other energy considerations are secondary.
Small-molecule inhibition of c-MYC:MAX leucine zipper formation is revealed by ion mobility mass spectrometry.	The leucine zipper interaction between MAX and c-MYC has been studied using mass spectrometry and drift time ion mobility mass spectrometry (DT IM-MS) in addition to circular dichroism spectroscopy. Peptides comprising the leucine zipper sequence with (c-MYC-Zip residues 402-434) and without a postulated small-molecule binding region (c-MYC-ZipDT residues 406-434) have been synthesized, along with the corresponding MAX leucine zipper (MAX-Zip residues 74-102). c-MYC-Zip:MAX-Zip complexes are observed both in the absence and in the presence of the reported small-molecule inhibitor 10058-F4 for both forms of c-MYC-Zip. DT IM-MS, in combination with molecular dynamics (MD), shows that the c-MYC-Zip:MAX-Zip complex [M+5H](5+) exists in two conformations, one extended with a collision cross section (CCS) of 1164  9.3 (2) and one compact with a CCS of 982  6.6 (2); similar values are observed for the two forms of c-MYC-ZipDT:MAX-Zip. Candidate geometries for the complexes have been evaluated with MD simulations. The helical leucine zipper structure previously determined from NMR measurements (Lavigne, P.; et al. J. Mol. Biol. 1998, 281, 165), altered to include the DT region and subjected to a gas-phase minimization, yields a CCS of 1247 (2), which agrees with the extended conformation we observe experimentally. More extensive MD simulations provide compact complexes which are found to be highly disordered, with CCSs that correspond to the compact form from experiment. In the presence of the ligand, the leucine zipper conformation is completely inhibited and only the more disordered species is observed, providing a novel method to study the effect of interactions of disordered systems and subsequent inhibition of the formation of an ordered helical complex.
Synthesis and biopharmaceutical studies of JLTN as potential dasatinib prodrug.	Dasatinib was identified as a potent orally administered Src/Abl kinase inhibitor with excellent antiproliferative activity against Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic phase. The low bioavailability of Dasatinib may be due to both incomplete oral absorption and first-pass metabolism. A prodrug, JLTN, was synthesized to minimize the first-pass effect of Dasatinib and improve the oral bioavailability following oral administration via targeting intestinal peptide transporter and enhancing chemical stability. Biological evaluation data indicated that there was a 150%-fold increase in oral bioavailability of this prodrug compared to the parent drug Dasatinib in monkeys. 
A convenient synthesis of lubeluzole and its enantiomer: evaluation as chemosensitizing agents on human ovarian adenocarcinoma and lung carcinoma cells.	Lubeluzole, a neuroprotective anti-ischemic drug, and its enantiomer were prepared following a convenient procedure based on hydrolytic kinetic resolution. The ee values were >99% and 96%, respectively, as assessed by HPLC analysis. The chemosensitizing effects of both enantiomers were evaluated in combination with either doxorubicin (human ovarian adenocarcinoma A2780 cells) or paclitaxel (human lung carcinoma A549 cells) by the MTT assay. At the lowest concentrations used, lubeluzole showed an overall and remarkable tendency to synergize with both anticancer drugs. In ovarian cancer cells a clear prevalence of antagonistic effect was observed for the R-enantiomer. The synergistic effects of lubeluzole for both drugs were observed over a wide concentration window (0.005-5 M), the lowest limit being at least 40 times lower than human plasma concentrations previously reported as causing serious side effects.
Design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of novel 2-ethyl-5-phenylthiazole-4-carboxamide derivatives as protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B inhibitors with improved cellular efficacy.	Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) is implicated as a key negative regulator of the insulin and leptin signal-transduction pathways. PTP1B inhibitors have emerged as attractive and potent pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity. We identified a series of 2-ethyl-5-phenylthiazole-4-carboxamide (PTA) derivatives, inspired from the ACT scaffold of Scleritodermin A, as a novel class of PTP1B inhibitors. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis and docking studies revealed the molecular basis of PTP1B inhibition by these compounds. PTA derivative 18g was capable of inhibiting intracellular PTP1B and subsequently activating the insulin signaling pathway. Treatment of cells with 18g markedly increased the phosphorylation levels of IR and Akt as well as the rate of glucose uptake. 
2-(2-Hydrazinyl)thiazole derivatives: design, synthesis and in vitro antimycobacterial studies.	In an attempt to discover new potent inhibitors for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), a series of 2-(2-hydrazinyl)thiazole derivatives with a wide range of substitutions at 2-, 4- and 5-positions were designed by considering Lipinski rule. The designed compounds were synthesized, characterized and evaluated for their inhibitory potential against Mtb, HRv, by in vitro assay. The compounds, ethyl-4-methyl-2-[(E)-2-[1-(pyridin-2-yl)ethylidene]hydrazin-1-yl]-1,3-thiazole-5-carboxylate, 4d, and ethyl-2-[(E)-2-[(2-hydroxyphenyl)methylidene]hydrazin-1-yl]-4-methyl-1,3-thiazole-5-carboxylate, 2i showed noticeable inhibitory activity against Mtb, H37Rv with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 12.5 M and 25 M respectively. An attempt has been made to understand the mechanism of action by binding interactions of these molecules with -ketoacyl-ACP synthase protein through docking studies. The inhibition constants for compounds 4d and 2i were found to be 1.46 M and 0.177 M respectively.
Novel acetamidothiazole derivatives: synthesis and in vitro anticancer evaluation.	A novel series of acetamide derivatives possessing both 2-imino-4-arylthiazoles and morpholine or different piperazines were synthesized and characterized by IR, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, elemental and mass spectral analyses. Twelve compounds were granted NSC codes at National Cancer Institute (NCI), USA for anticancer activity at a single high dose (10(-5) M) in full NCI 60 cell panel. Among the compounds tested, compounds 5a and 6b were found to be the most active candidates of the synthesized series. Assessment of toxicities, druglikeness, and drug score profiles of compounds 5a and 6b are promising. Some of the synthesized compounds showed a good docking score with potential anticancer targets, chosen based on pharmacophore mapping of the established derivatives.
Synthesis and cellular uptake of p-[(123)I]-phenyl-amino-thiazole ((123)I-PAT) as a potential agent for targeting tubulin polymerization in tumors.	The phenyl-amino-thiazole (PAT) templates of methoxylbenzoyl-aryl-thiazole are potent agents against cancer by inhibiting tubulin polymerization in the nanomolar range. Herein, a radioiodinated PAT, [(123)I]-PAT 1, was prepared via a tributylstannyl precursor and [(123)I]iodide through electrophilic aromatic radioiodination. Radiolabelling of [(123)I]-PAT 1 was achieved in less than 15min, with a radiochemical purity of over 99%. The accumulated radioactivity in tumor cellular uptake experiments suggested that [(123) I]-PAT could serve as a potential radioprobe for targeting tumor cells.
Synthesis of novel 16-spiro steroids: 7-(Aryl)tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-c][1,3]thiazolo estrone hybrid heterocycles.	The 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of azomethine ylides generated in situ from the reaction of isatins or acenaphthylene-1,2-dione and 1,3-thiazolane-4-carboxylic acid to various exocyclic dipolarophiles synthesized from estrone afforded a library of novel C-16 spiro oxindole or acenaphthylene-1-one - 7-(aryl)tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-c][1,3]thiazole - estrone hybrid heterocycles. These reactions occur regio- and stereo-selectively affording a single isomer of the spiro estrones in excellent yields with the formation of two C-C and one C-N bonds along with the generation of four new contiguous stereo-centers in a single step. 
Bifunctional ethyl 2-amino-4-methylthiazole-5-carboxylate derivatives: synthesis and in vitro biological evaluation as antimicrobial and anticancer agents.	Thirty thiazole compounds bearing chemotherapeutically-active pharmacophores were synthesized and evaluated for their preliminary in vitro antimicrobial and anticancer activities. Nineteen compounds displayed obvious antibacterial potential, with special bactericidal activity against Gram positive bacteria, whereas, nine analogs showed moderate to weak antifungal activity against Candida albicans. The analog 12f proved to be the most active antimicrobial member identified in this study being comparable to ampicillin and gentamicin sulfate against Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus subtilis, together with a moderate antifungal activity. Additionally, nine derivatives were tested for their preliminary in vitro anticancer activity according to the current one-dose protocol of the NCI. Compound 9b revealed a broad spectrum of anticancer activity against 29 out of the tested 60 subpanel tumor cell lines. Collectively, compounds 4, 9b, 10b and 12f could be considered as promising dual anticancer antibiotics.
Palladium-catalyzed C-2 selective olefination of thiazoles.	A highly efficient protocol for C2 selective alkenylation of electron-deficient thiazoles is developed. High C2 position selectivity for alkenylation products is achieved at a neutral environment, and a possible pathway of oxidative alkenylation is discussed. This methodology provides a simple way to construct a 2-alkenyl-thiazole moiety. 
Switching regioselectivity of -ketothioamides by means of iodine catalysis: synthesis of thiazolylidenes and 1,4-dithiines.	An efficient I2 -catalyzed synthesis of thiazolylidenes and 1,4-dithiines from -ketothioamides (KTAs) has been developed by only controlling the amount of I2 that triggers different cascade reaction sequences by means of [3+2] or [3+3] cyclocondensation in a one-step process. A possible mechanistic proposal for these transformations is presented. 
Inhibition of GlcNAc-processing glycosidases by C-6-azido-NAG-thiazoline and its derivatives.	NAG-thiazoline is a strong competitive inhibitor of GH20 -N-acetyl- hexosaminidases and GH84 -N-acetylglucosaminidases. Here, we focused on the design, synthesis and inhibition potency of a series of new derivatives of NAG-thiazoline modified at the C-6 position. Dimerization of NAG-thiazoline via C-6 attached triazole linkers prepared by click chemistry was employed to make use of multivalency in the inhibition. Novel compounds were tested as potential inhibitors of -N-acetylhexosaminidases from Talaromyces flavus, Streptomyces plicatus (both GH20) and -N-acetylglucosaminidases from Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron and humans (both GH84). From the set of newly prepared NAG-thiazoline derivatives, only C-6-azido-NAG-thiazoline displayed inhibition activity towards these enzymes; C-6 triazole-substituted NAG-thiazolines lacked inhibition activity against the enzymes used. Docking of C-6-azido-NAG-thiazoline into the active site of the tested enzymes was performed. Moreover, a stability study with GlcNAc-thiazoline confirmed its decomposition at pH < 6 yielding 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-1-thio-/-D-glucopyranoses, which presumably dimerize oxidatively into S-S linked dimers; decomposition products of NAG-thiazoline are void of inhibitory activity. 
Identification of the stereochemical requirements in the 4-aryl-2-cycloalkylidenhydrazinylthiazole scaffold for the design of selective human monoamine oxidase B inhibitors.	Exploring the effect that substituents on the cycloaliphatic ring had on the inhibitory activity against human monoamine oxidase B of a series of 4-aryl-2-cycloalkylidenhydrazinylthiazoles led to the synthesis of a new series of 2-methylcyclopentyl and 3-methylcyclopentyl derivatives which were tested in vitro as mixtures of diastereoisomers. In fact, due to the presence of a chiral center on the cycloaliphatic ring and a trisubstituted CN bond, they exist as four diastereoisomers ((E)-(R), (E)-(S), (Z)-(R), (Z)-(S)). 4-(2,4-Difluorophenyl)-2-(2-(3-methylcyclopentylidene)hydrazinyl)thiazole was chosen as a model to investigate the influence of stereochemical requirements on the inhibitory activity against hMAO-B of these derivatives after a stereoconservative synthesis and semi-preparative HPLC diastereoseparation. (R)-(Z) isomer of this compound was endowed with a potent and selective hMAO-B inhibition higher than that of reference drugs as also corroborated by molecular modeling studies. 
Synthesis of some thiazoline and thiazolidinone derivatives of 1,4-benzoquinone as potential antimicrobial agents.	Three novel series of benzoquinone derivatives were synthesized, namely: N-(3-aryl-4-phenylthiazolin-2-ylidene)-N-(1,4-benzoquinone carbonyl) hydrazines; N-(3-aryl-5-carbethoxy-4-methylthiazolin-2-ylidene)-N-(1,4- benzoquinone carbonyl)hydrazine and N-(3-arylthiazolin-4-one-2-ylidene)-N-(1,4- benzoquinone carbonyl) hydrazines. These series were prepared by oxidation of the new hydroquinone precursors. The antimicrobial activity of representative compounds of benzoquinone, as well as of hydroquinone derivatives was studied.
Reactivity of 3-aryl-4-amino-5-mercapto-4H-1,2,4-triazoles: synthesis and biological evaluation of 3,6-diaryl derivatives of 7H-1,2,4-thiazole[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazines, of 3-aryl-4-amino-5-carboxymethylthio-4H-1,2,4-triazoles]	Starting from 3-aryl-4-amino-5-mercapto-4H-1,2,4-triazoles (II), two series of 3,6-disubstituted 7H-1,2,4-triazol [3,4-b] [1,3,4] thiadiazines (III) and their 5-carboxymethylthio derivatives (IV) were prepared. From the mercapto-amino-triazoles (II) because of their reactivity in some oxidising media, were obtained the triazole derivatives (V), (VI) and (VII). The synthesis of the alpha-thioketones (VIII) of 3-aryl-5-mercapto-1,3,4-oxadiazoles (I), used in alternative synthesis of triazole-thiadiazines (III), is also reported. All the substances described were subjected to biological screening. In the tests, the carboxymethylthiotriazole (IV) showed weak antiinflammatory activity (carrageenin edema) and more consistent scavanger activity, in vitro, on superoxide anions. The triazole-thiadiazines (III) and triazoles (II), (V) and (VI) showed moderate antimycotic activity.
Studies on histamine H2 receptor antagonists. 2. Synthesis and pharmacological activities of N-sulfamoyl and N-sulfonyl amidine derivatives.	A series of N-sulfamoyl and N-sulfonyl amidines have been prepared and tested in vitro for H2 antihistamine activity on guinea pig atrium. In addition, several selected compounds were assessed as inhibitors of gastric acid secretion induced by histamine in anesthetized dogs. Structure-activity relationship studies showed that those compounds containing 2-[(diaminomethylene)amino]thiazole exhibited potent H2-receptor antagonist activity. Introduction of alkyl or aralkyl groups to the terminal nitrogen of the sulfamoyl moiety reduced biological activities. Sulfamoyl amidines were more potent in both tests than sulfonyl amidines. Of these compounds, 3-[[[2-[(diaminomethylene)amino]-4-thiazolyl]methyl]thio]- N2-sulfamoylpropionamidine (2e, famotidine) showed extremely high potency in both assays and was selected for clinical trials as an antiulcer agent. Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of famotidine gave the sulfamoyl amide 6 at room temperature and the carboxylic acid 7 at elevated temperatures. 15N NMR spectrum showed that famotidine in solution existed in only one of several possible tautomers derived from the amidine and the guanidine moieties. Nitrosation of famotidine was performed under mild condition and proved to occur on the 5-position of the thiazole ring.
Syntheses and gastric acid antisecretory properties of the H2-receptor antagonist. N-[3-[3-(1-piperidinylmethyl)phenoxy]propyl]thieno[3,4-d]isot hiazol-3-amine 1,1-dioxide and related derivatives.	The synthesis and gastric acid antisecretory properties of several N-substituted thieno[3,4-d]isothiazol-3-amine 1,1-dioxides and analogues are described. Two of the more potent compounds, N-[3-[3-(1-piperidinylmethyl)phenoxy]propyl]thieno[3,4-d] isothiazol-3-amine 1,1-dioxide (6a) and N-[4-[3-(1-piperidinylmethyl)phenoxy]propyl]thieno[3,4-d] isothiazol-3-amine 1,1-dioxide, showed greater potencies as H2-receptor antagonists (in vitro) than ranitidine. They also had potent gastric acid antisecretory activities in vivo, inhibiting basal acid secretion in the rat, histamine-stimulated acid secretion in the dog, and food-stimulated acid secretion in the dog. These were selected for further pharmacological evaluation.
Synthesis and antineoplastic activity of 5-aryl-2,3-dihydropyrrolo[2,1-b]thiazole-6,7-dimethanol 6,7-bis(isopropylcarbamates).	A series of 1-thia analogues of the pyrrolizine bis(carbamate) 9 (NSC-278214), namely 5-aryl-2,3-dihydropyrrolo-[2,1-b]thiazole-6,7-dimethanol 6,7-bis(isopropylcarbamates) (7a-d), were prepared by multistep syntheses from the proline analogue thiazolidine-2-carboxylic acid. The compounds were tested for growth inhibitory activity with the HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cell line. Three of the compounds had antileukemic activity equal to that of 9, while a 4-chlorophenyl analogue was approximately 75% more potent. A simple aromatic derivative, 1,2-benzenedimethanol 1,2-bis(isopropylcarbamate) (8), had no activity in this system. Antitumor activity was also tested in a colony formation assay with HT-29 human colon carcinoma cells. Compounds 7a-d reduced relative cell survival by over 3 logs at a concentration of 300 microM (2-h exposure), while a comparable inhibition was observed with 150 microM 9. Hence compounds 7a-d retain significant antineoplastic activity.
Synthesis, chemical reactivity, and antileukemic activity of 5-substituted 6,7-bis(hydroxymethyl)pyrrolo[1,2-c]thiazole biscarbamates and the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones.	A series of bis(N-methylcarbamate) and bis[N-(2-propyl)carbamate] derivatives of 5-substituted 6,7-bis(hydroxy-methyl)pyrrolo[1,2-c]thiazoles was prepared. The compounds were tested for activity in vivo against P388 lymphocytic leukemia, and the chemical reactivities of the compounds were compared by using the model nucleophile 4-(4-nitrobenzyl)pyridine (NBP). The 5-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-substituted biscarbamates 6b, 8b, and 12b were inactive and unreactive toward NBP. The 5-methyl-substituted biscarbamates 6a, 7a, 8a, 9a, 12a, and 13a were all active against murine P388 lymphocytic leukemia. The chemical reactivities of the active compounds depended on the oxidation state of the sulfur. The reactivity toward NBP followed the order S greater than SO much greater than SO2. The sulfones 12a and 13a are the most active compounds in this series, and their lack of reactivity toward NBP led to the suggestion that 12a and 13a are activated in vivo.
Synthesis of thiazole derivatives with positive inotropic effect.	Thiazole derivatives with potential positive inotropic effect were synthesized. The highest activity (medium positive inotropic effect) was exhibited by ethyl 2-(2-hydroxyethylamino)-4-phenylthiazole-5-carboxylate (3b) of which several derivatives have been prepared. Among these derivatives only those which could presumably easily removed in the living organism to give 3b exhibited a medium positive inotropic effect (6, 8b). It was assumed that the effect of 3b had a beta-agonist character.
Antiprotozoal thiazoles. 2. 2-(5-Nitro-2-furyl-, thiazolyl-, and 1-methylimidazolyl-)thiazoles.	Ten 2-substituted 4-thiazolecarboxaldehyde hydrazones bearing 5-nitro-2-furyl, 5-nitro-2-thiazolyl, and 1-methyl-5-nitro-2-imidazolyl functions have been prepared and screened for activity against Trypanosoma cruzi infections in mice. The results permitted the ranking of these substituents in decreasing order of activity: 1-methyl-5-nitro-2-imidazolyl greater than 5-nitro-2-furyl greater than 5-nitro-2-thiazolyl, the last being inactive. Some structural features of the side chain necessary for optimum activity are discussed. The most active compound, 4-[[[2-(1-methyl-5-nitro-2-imidazolyl)-4-thiazolyl]methylene]amino]thiomorpholine 1,1-dioxide, compared favorably with the standard Nifurtimox against three recent clinical isolates of T. cruzi, including one with a high myocardial tissue infiltration.
2-Carbethoxymethylene-thiazolidones-(4), a novel series of Heterocycles with choleretic properties]	Base-induced condensation of alpha-mercapto-carboxylic esters with  activated acetonitriles yields 2-methylene-thiazolidones-(4). The paper presented describes the development of ethyl (Z)-(3-ethyl-4-oxo-5-piperidino-thiazolidin-2-ylidene) acetate (30; piprozoline, G 919, Probilin), a novel choleretic with exocrin pancreas stimulating and hepatoprotective properties, by following-up the choleretic parent compound 2, which belongs to the 2-carbethoxymethylene-thiazolidones-(4) series. Synthesis and properties of piprozoline are reported. Structure-activity relationship is discussed in short.
Synthesis of 2-(substituted anilino) 4-(substituted phenyl)thiazoles.	2-(Substituted anilino) 4-(substituted phenyl)thiazoles were synthesized by condensing 2-haloketones with substituted thioureas. The biological screening of some compounds indicated hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic activity.
Synthesis and antiplatelet activity of 2-amino-4,5-diphenylthiazole derivatives]	A series of 4,5-diphenylthiazoles containing morpholinoalkyl amino groups at the 2 position was synthesized and their anti-platelet activities were evaluated. The inhibitory effects of the compounds in which phenyl groups at the 4 position were substituted by methoxy groups were more potent than those of aspirin and ibuprofen on the collagen-induced rabbit platelet aggregation. These compounds were also shown to have potent efficacies on the arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation. On the other hand, these compounds did not affect the ADP-induced platelet aggregation similarly to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Moreover, their efficacies on the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis were more potent than that of ibuprofen. Therefore, we thought that 2-(morpholinoalkyl)amino-4,5-diphenylthiazoles, in spite of their basic properties, inhibited the platelet aggregation based on cyclooxygenase.
Synthesis and pharmacological activities of novel bicyclic thiazoline derivatives as hepatoprotective agents II. (7-Alkoxycarbonyl-2,3,5,6-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,1-b]thiazol-3-ylidend) acetamid derivatives.	A series of exomethylenic bicyclic thiazoline derivatives (3a--i) was synthesized and evaluated for hepatoprotective activity against galactosamine-induced and monoclonal antibody-induced acute liver injuries in rats. The structure-activity relationships were investigated. Among the compounds synthesized, N-methyl-(7-isopropoxy-carbonyl-6,6-dimethyl-2,3,5,6- tetrahydropyrrolo[2,1-b]thiazol-3-ylidene)acetamide (3i) exhibited the most potent hepatoprotective activity. This compound suppressed galactosamine-induced hepatic injury at 100 mg/kg by oral administration and further prevented monoclonal antibody-induced hepatic injury at 30 mg/kg by intraperitoneal injection, as judged from the changes in serum transaminase activities.
Substituted 2-benzothiazolamines as sodium flux inhibitors: quantitative structure-activity relationships and anticonvulsant activity.	Thirty-two aryl-substituted 2-benzothiazolamines have been tested for their ability to modulate sodium flux in rat cortical slices. A QSAR analysis, applied to these derivatives, showed a trend toward increasing potency as sodium flux inhibitors with increasing lipophilicity, decreasing size, and increasing electron withdrawal of the benzo ring substituents. Additionally, 4- or 5-substitution of the benzo ring was found to decrease potency. The combination of increased lipophilicity, small size, and electron withdrawal severely limited which groups were tolerated on the benzo ring, thus suggesting that the optimal substitution patterns have been prepared within this series. Nine of these compounds were potent inhibitors of veratridine-induced sodium flux (NaFl). These nine compounds also proved to be anticonvulsant in the maximal electroshock (MES) assay. Fourteen additional 2-benzothiazolamines demonstrated activity in the MES screen, yet exhibited no activity in the NaFl assay. These derivatives may be interacting at the sodium channel in a manner not discernible by the flux paradigm, or they may be acting by an alternative mechanism in vivo.
Synthesis and anticonvulsant activity of some new thiosemicarbazone and 4-thiazolidone derivatives bearing an isatin moiety.	A series of 3-thiosemicarbazono-2-indolinones and 3-(4-thiazolidone-2-hydrazono)-2-indolinones was synthesized by condensation of various isatin derivatives with 4-substituted 3-thiosemicarbazides and cyclization of the products by monochloroacetic acid or ethyl alpha-bromoacetate. In the present work we report on the structure determination and anticonvulsant evaluation of the title compounds.
7-(Disubstituted thiazolyl)-3,5-dihydroxy-6-heptenoic/heptanoic acid derivatives as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.	A series of disubstituted thiazoles, functionalized with the essential 3,5-dihydroxy-6-heptenoic or heptanoic chain, were prepared and evaluated for their ability to inhibit the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase in vitro. All the synthesized compounds 46-61 showed a moderate inhibitory potency.
Antiplatelet agents based on cyclooxygenase inhibition without ulcerogenesis. Evaluation and synthesis of 4,5-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-substituted-thiazoles.	The syntheses, biological evaluations, and structure-activity relationships of a series of 4,5-bis-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-substituted-thiazoles as potent antiplatelet agents with vasodilatory activity are described. 2-Guanidino-4,5-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)thiazole (3), designed from two parent compounds (itazigrel and timegadine), showed inhibitory activity of malondialdehyde (MDA, IC50 = 31 microM) production which is formed from the cyclooxygenase (CO)-catalyzed oxygenation of arachidonic acid in the synthesis of prostanoids in platelets, with vasodilatory activity (ED50 = 2.0 microM). Further structure-activity relationship studies on 3 culminated in the preparation of 4,5-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-[(1-methylpiperazin-4-yl)carbonyl]thiaz ole (10a, FR122047) which exhibited potent inhibitory activity on MDA synthesis in vitro (IC50 = 0.088 microM) and platelet aggregation in guinea pigs ex vivo (100% inhibition even 6 h after 1.0 mg/kg administration) with vasodilatory activity in vitro (ED50 = 6.2 microM). Moreover, 10a demonstrated no ulcerogenesis effect in rats even at 100 mg/kg dosage (safety margin in rats is more than 70 while that of aspirin is only 1.2) in spite of its potent CO inhibition (IC50 = 0.43 microM14), while the use of aspirin, a CO inhibitor and the most popular thromboembolic drug, is restricted by the side effect. Pharmacokinetic studies on 10a have revealed that 10a is detectable in platelet-rich plasma but not in platelet-poor plasma 1 day after oral administration, which indicates that 10a tends to be localized in platelets. This property could be responsible for its low toxicity and reduction of side effects in clinical studies.
Synthesis of 2-piperazinylbenzothiazole and 2-piperazinylbenzoxazole derivatives with 5-HT3 antagonist and 5-HT4 agonist properties.	New 2-piperazinylbenzothiazole and 2-piperazinylbenzoxazole derivatives were prepared and tested as 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. Some of the new compounds antagonized the effect of 5-HT at the longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus (LMMP) preparation of the guinea pig ileum, and two benzothiazole derivatives, compounds 2e and 2f, were more potent than ondansetron in this regard. However, these two compounds were much weaker than the typical 5-HT3 receptor antagonist as displacers of [3H]BRL-43694 binding to rat cerebral cortex homogenates or as antagonists of the bradycardia response to 5-HT in the anaesthetized rat. Like the prokinetic agent cisapride, some of the new compounds enhanced gastric emptying in rats. Compound 2f not only markedly enhanced gastric emptying but was also a potent agonist at the isolated rat oesophageal tunica muscularis mucosae, a preparation sensitive to 5-HT4 receptor stimulation, and enhanced the twitch response in the LMMP preparation. The latter effect was blocked by a high concentration of tropisetron or by previous desensitization with 5-methoxytryptamine. Compound 2f appears to show a promising pharmacological profile as a potential gastrokinetic agent.
Preparation of C-(2-deoxyhex/pent-1-enopyranosyl)heterocycles.	Acetylated 1-cyanoglycals (2,6-anhydro-3-deoxyhept/hex-2-enononitriles) were prepared by direct elimination of acetic acid from the appropriate acetylated 2,6-anhydrohept/hexononitriles with 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU) in aprotic solvents. Heterocyclisation of the cyano group of acetylated 1-cyano-D-galactal with 2-aminothiophenol led to 2-(3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-D-lyxo-hex-1-enopyranosyl)benz othiazole. Several 2-(per-O-acetylhexo/pentopyranosyl)benzothiazoles also gave 2-(per-O-acetyl-2-deoxyhex/pent-1-enopyranosyl)benzothiazole s with DBU. 3-(Per-O-acetylhexo/pentopyranosyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-a] pyrimidines rearranged with DBU to the corresponding acetylated 2-glycosyl-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidines. By the reaction of 1-cyano-D-galactal with ammonium azide, 2-(3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-D-lyxo-hex-1-enopyranosyl)tetr azole was prepared and then transformed with carboxylic acid derivatives into 2-(3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-D-lyxo-hex-1-enopyranosyl)-5-s ubstituted-1,3,4- oxadiazoles.
The desferrithiocin pharmacophore.	The (S)-desferrithiocin (DFT) skeleton is shown to be a useful pharmacophore on which to design orally effective iron chelators. While the study clearly indicates that formal reduction of the desazadesmethyldesferrithiocin thiazoline to a thiazolidine (6), expansion of the desmethyldesferrithiocin thiazoline to a thiazine (7), or substitution of the thiazoline sulfur of of desazedes-methyldesferrithiocin by an oxygen (8 and 9) lead to a substantial loss of activity, conversion of (S)-desmethyldesferrithiocin (1) to an N-methylhydroxamate (4) or to the hexacoordinate dihydroxamate ligand (5) results in active compounds. This investigation thus demonstrates which structural components of the siderophore are required for iron clearance after oral administration and suggests the use of the desferrithiocin platform as a vector for other chelators.
3,3'-Bi-[1,3-thiazolidine-4-one] system. VII. Synthesis and SARS of some 2-heteroaryl derivatives with antiinflammatory and related activities.	In pursuing the research on the SARs of chiral 3,3'-Bi-[1,3-thiazolidine-4-one] system derivatives, two new structural modifications were explored, both having on chiral C atoms thienyl or 2/3 pyridyl groups which have been found to improve antiinflammatory and related activities in the previously studied 3,3'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bisthiazolidinones. In particular a trimetylene chain was introduced between N-3 and N-3' thus obtaining the 3,3'-(1,3-propanediyl) derivatives [type Ic compounds], whereas by elimination of a thiazolidinone ring the 2-heteroaryl-3-[2'(heteroarylidenamino) ethyl]-1,3-thiazolidine-4-one derivatives (type II compounds) were prepared. The new compounds were explored in vivo for their antiinflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic activities, as well as for acute toxicity and ulcerogenic effects. The results obtained don't allow us to draw any reliable SAR except that, by increasing the distance between thiazolidinonic rings, in Ic compounds, the pharmacological profile is not improved with respect to (1,2-ethanediyl) inferior homologs. Among compounds II, only the thienyl derivative 5 appears to have antiinflammatory and analgesic activities.
Synthesis and in vivo evaluation of [11C]semotiadil, a benzothiazine calcium antagonist.	A carbon-11 labeled benzothiazine calcium antagonist, (+)-(R)-2-[5-methoxy-2-[3-[methyl[2-[(3,4- methylenedioxy)phenoxy]ethyl]amino]propoxy]phenyl]-4-methyl-2H-1,4- benzothiazin-3(4H)-one (semotiadil), and its enantiomer were prepared by N-methylation of the corresponding norderivatives with 11CH3I: decay-corrected radiochemical yields of 16-27% based on 11CH3I, radiochemical, chemical and optical purity of > 99%, sp. act. of 11-50 GBq/mumol and preparation time of 35-40 min. In mice, saturable and stereo-selective uptake in the hippocampus, striatum and hypothalamus was observed. The potential of the compound to visualize the regional brain calcium channels in vivo by positron emission tomography was indicated; however, no promising sign was found in the myocardium.
Characteristic bleaching profiles of cyanine dyes depending on active oxygen species in the controlled Fenton reaction.	The bleaching of cyanine-type pentamethine trinuclear dyes by active oxygen species (AOS), superoxide and hydroxyl radical, were studied under the xanthine-xanthine oxidase system and the Fenton reaction, respectively. The gradual bleaching of dyes occurred as the result of superoxide produced in the xanthine-xanthine oxidase system. However, the bleaching of cyanine dyes by Fenton reagent varied depending on the reaction conditions. If a normal Fenton reaction of Fe(II) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) took place, a hydroxyl radical was generated instantly. A Fenton reaction with an excess of [H2O2] over [Fe(II)] resulted in a gradual bleaching of the dye initiated by the hydroxyl radical, Fe(III) and H2O2. In this reaction, cyanine dyes with shorter side chains were bleached faster than those with longer ones. We controlled the Fenton reaction condition (Fe(II) or Fe(IIO)/H2O2 at pH 3.5 in the dark) to generate a specific AOS such as a hydroxyl radical (.OH) or superoxide (.O2-). Studies using xanthine-xanthine oxidase (pH 7.8), the Fe(II)-dipyridyl complex and various scavengers such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and hyaluronic acid, revealed that .O2- was the primary radical responsible for this controlled Fenton reaction. This finding shows that this controlled Fenton reaction would be an effective AOS generation method, and that cyanine dyes may be hopeful probes for the detection of AOS.
Novel pyrimidinediones and thiazolidinones as anti depressants.	2-Mercapto-5-[4'-methoxy phenyl thiourea]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (2a-c) prepared by the condensation of 2-amino-5-mercapto-1,3,4-thiadiazole (1) with substituted phenyl isothiocyanates. Further on cyclisation with malonic acid in the presence of acetyl chloride gave the corresponding 2-mercapto-5-[3-(4-methoxy phenyl)-2-thioxo-2-5-dihydro-4, 6-pyrimidionoyl]-1,3,4-thiadiazole (3a-c) [sequence: see text]. This on further reaction with substituted aryl aldehydes in presence of zinc chloride gave 2-mercapto-5-[3-(4'-methoxy phenyl)-2'-thioxo-2',5'-dihydro-4',6' -pyrimidionoyl 5'-phenyl carboxaldehyde]-1,3,4- thiadiazole (4a-g) [sequence: see text]. The compounds were screened for antidepressant activity and compared with antidepressant (imipramine).
Synthesis of a novel dual inhibitor of thromboxane A2 synthetase and 5-lipoxygenase (E3040) via the direct coupling reaction of hydroquinone with 3-pyridinecarboxaldehyde.	Synthesis of a novel dual inhibitor of thromboxane A2 synthetase and 5-lipoxygenase, 5,7-dimethyl-6-hydroxy-2-methylamino-4-(3- pyridylmethyl)benzothiazole (E3040), was accomplished via a new coupling reaction, in which a key intermediate, (3,6-dihydroxy-2,4-dimethylphenyl)-(3-pyridyl)methanol, was easily synthesized in a high yield from 2,6-dimethyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone and 3-pyridinecarboxaldehyde in 6 N hydrochloric acid. The regio isomers of 3-pyridinecarboxaldehyde also gave the corresponding coupling products in high yields.
Acid derivatives of benzisothiazole-1,1-dioxide as inhibitors of rat lens aldose reductase.	A number of 6-substituted 1, 2-benzisothiazole-1, 1-dioxide alkanoic acids were synthesized and evaluated for crude rat lens aldose reductase inhibitory activity. The inhibitory potency of the acetic (6a, 10a), propionic (6b, 10b, 11b), and isopropionic (6c, 10c, 11c) derivatives was very similar and generally lower than that of the reference compound, Sorbinil. The presence of an acyl moiety on the amino group in position 6, as in the acetic and propionic derivatives 14a-f and 15a, b, respectively, resulted in a significant increase in activity. A good potency was shown by compounds 14g and 15g, in which a second carboxylic function is present on the 6-acylamino group. Also the open products 16, which contain the phenylsulfonyl fragment found in several known inhibitors of aldose reductase, were obtained and tested in the rat lens assay.
The antibody catalysis route to the total synthesis of epothilones.	An efficient monoclonal aldolase antibody that proceeds by an enamine mechanism was generated by reactive immunization. Here, this catalyst has been used in the total synthesis of epothilones A (1) and C (3). The starting materials for the synthesis of these molecules have been obtained by using antibody-catalyzed aldol and retro-aldol reactions. These precursors were then converted to epothilones A (1) and C (3) to complete the total synthesis.
Novel euglycemic and hypolipidemic agents: Part-2. Antioxidant moiety as structural motif.	Several thiazolidinediones having antioxidant moities in their structural motif have been synthesised and evaluated for their euglycemic and hypolipidemic activities. A few of them have been found to be superior to troglitazone.
Anti-Helicobacter pylori agents. 2. Structure activity relationships in a new series of 2-alkylguanidino-4-furylthiazoles.	SAR for antimicrobial activity against H. pylori was investigated in a new series of 2-alkylguanidino-4-furylthiazoles. Of the compounds obtained, cyclohexylmethyl and ethoxyethyl derivatives were identified as a novel class of anti-H. pylori agents which possessed potent and selective antimicrobial activity against H. pylori. These compounds also showed gastric antisecretory activity.
Syntheses of 2-[(3,5-dimethyl-4-methoxypyridyl)alkyl]-benzothiazolidine derivatives as a potential gastric H+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor.	A series of 2-[(3,5-dimethyl-4-methoxypyridyl)alkyl]benzothiazolidine derivatives were synthesized and tested their inhibitory effects on gastric H+/K(+)-ATPase. Compound 4d exhibited potent in vitro inhibitory activity.
Synthesis and biological activity of novel thiazolidinediones.	Novel compounds having a dual pharmacophore were synthesised and evaluated for their insulin sensitiser and anti-inflammatory properties in different animal models.
Oxidative and reductive transformations of epothilone A.	The C7 hydroxy group of cytotoxic epothilone A was selectively oxidized using PDC. A selective oxidation of the C3 hydroxy group was accomplished with Me2S/(PhCO2)2 after in situ protection of C7-OH. Reduction of epothilone A or of a C5, C7 dioxo derivative with NaBH4 proceeded at the C5 carbonyl group. Oxidation and hydrogenation of the C16-C17 double bond proved to be difficult but it was easily cleaved with ozone and the resulting keto derivative was transformed to epothilone analogs with different side chains.
Derivatization of the C12-C13 functional groups of epothilones A, B and C.	Epothilone A reacted with hydrohalic acids to C12-C13 halohydrin regioisomers (ratios: 2:1-4:1), whereas epothilone B gave under the same conditions the isomerically pure C12 halo C13 hydroxy derivative. With non-nucleophilic Brnstedt acids and with Lewis acids a highly solvent dependent product distribution and some unexpected rearrangement products were observed. Epothilone C bearing a double bond between C12 and C13 was regioselectively dihydroxylated or hydrogenated at that position.
