The pharmacokinetics and effects of meloxicam, gabapentin, and flunixin in postweaning dairy calves following dehorning with local anesthesia.	Approved analgesic compounds in cattle are not currently available in the United States due to the lack of validated pain assessment methods and marker residue depletion studies. In this study, we compared the pharmacokinetic parameters and effect of preemptive analgesics administered to calves subjected to dehorning with local anesthesia. Holstein steers were randomly assigned to receive one of the following treatments per os (PO) or intravenously (IV) (n = 8/group): meloxicam (1 mg/kg PO), gabapentin (15 mg/kg PO), meloxicam (1 mg/kg), and gabapentin (15 mg/kg) PO, flunixin (2.2 mg/kg IV), or a placebo. Plasma drug, haptoglobin, substance P (SP) concentrations, serum cortisol concentrations, ocular thermography, mechanical nociceptive threshold (MNT), and average daily gain (ADG) were evaluated. Data were analyzed using mixed-effects models and noncompartmental pharmacokinetic analysis. Meloxicam, gabapentin, and meloxicam with gabapentin at the present doses did not reduce cortisol concentrations. Analgesic-treated calves had significantly lower plasma SP concentrations and improved ADG compared with controls. Flunixin calves had reduced circulating cortisol compared with controls. Meloxicam-treated calves showed an increase in MNT at two horn bud sites compared with the other treatments. Analgesics improved ADG and reduced biomarkers of pain, but effects differed by compound and route of administration. 
Ampiroxicam, an anti-inflammatory agent which is a prodrug of piroxicam.	Ampiroxicam is a nonacidic ether carbonate prodrug of piroxicam. Our results demonstrate that, in contrast to piroxicam, ampiroxicam does not possess detectable prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory activity in vitro. Ampiroxicam, however, has similar in vivo potency to piroxicam in suppressing paw swelling in rat adjuvant arthritis. In an acute model of paw inflammation in rats, ampiroxicam is less potent than piroxicam itself: the ED50's of ampiroxicam are 9- and 3.5-fold higher than those of piroxicam following a single or multiple (5) daily oral doses, respectively. Using the phenylbenzoquinone stretching test as a method of evaluating acute analgetic activity, the ED50 for ampiroxicam is about 3-fold higher than that of piroxicam. These tests of activity share the property of being partially prostaglandin-dependent. Ampiroxicam itself is not observed in plasma after oral dosing to man, nor in the rat, dog, and monkey as reported here. Bioavailability studies show that conversion to piroxicam is about 100%, 90%, 70%, and 50% in these four species, respectively. These results indicate that ampiroxicam's anti-inflammatory activity is produced in vivo by conversion to piroxicam and support its credentials as an efficacious prodrug of piroxicam.
