Bob1, a Gim5/MM-1/Pfd5 homolog, interacts with the MAP kinase kinase Byr1 to regulate sexual differentiation in the fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The MAPKK Byr1 is an essential component of a Ras-dependent MAPK module required for sexual differentiation in the fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Here we describe the genetic and molecular characterization of a highly conserved protein, Bob1, which was identified from a two-hybrid screen for Byr1-interacting proteins. Byrl and Bobl proteins coprecipitate from S. pombe cell lysates, and both proteins localize to the tips and septa of S. pombe cells. S. pombe bob1 null (bob1delta) mutants lack obvious growth defects but exhibit a significant mating deficiency, which can be suppressed by overexpression of Byrl. Overexpression of Bob1 also leads to inhibition of mating in S. pombe, and this defect is likewise suppressed by Byrl overexpression. Bob1 is highly homologous in structure to the mammalian MM-1/Pfd5 and budding yeast Gim5/Pfd5-Sc proteins, which have been implicated as regulators of actin and tubulins. Similar to budding yeast gim5/pfd5-Sc mutants, S. pombe bob1delta cells have cytoskeletal defects, as judged by hypersensitivity to cytoskeletal disrupting drugs. byr1delta mutants do not share this characteristic with bob1delta mutants, and byr1delta bob1delta mutants are not significantly more sensitive to cytoskeletal disrupting drugs than cells carrying only the bob1delta mutation. Taken together, our results suggest that Bob1 has Byr1-related function(s) required for proper mating response of S. pombe cells and Byrl-independent function(s) required for normal cytoskeletal control. We show that the human MM-1/Pfd5 protein can substitute for its counterpart in fission yeast, providing evidence that the functions of Bob1-related proteins have been highly conserved through evolution. Our results lead us to propose that Bob1-related proteins may play diverse roles in eukaryotic organisms.
pkl1(+)and klp2(+): Two kinesins of the Kar3 subfamily in fission yeast perform different functions in both mitosis and meiosis.	We have identified Klp2p, a new kinesin-like protein (KLP) of the KAR3 subfamily in fission yeast. The motor domain of this protein is 61% identical and 71% similar to Pkl1p, another fission yeast KAR3 protein, yet the two enzymes are different in behavior and function. Pkl1p is nuclear throughout the cell cycle, whereas Klp2p is cytoplasmic during interphase. During mitosis Klp2p enters the nucleus where it forms about six chromatin-associated dots. In metaphase-arrested cells these migrate back and forth across the nucleus. During early anaphase they segregate with the chromosomes into two sets of about three, fade, and are replaced by other dots that form on the spindle interzone. Neither klp2(+) nor pkl1(+) is essential, and the double deletion is also wild type for both vegetative and sexual reproduction. Each deletion rescues different alleles of cut7(ts), a KLP that contributes to spindle formation and elongation. When either or both deletions are combined with a dynein deletion, vegetative growth is normal, but sexual reproduction fails: klp2 Delta,dhc1-d1 in karyogamy, pkl1 Delta,dhc1-d1 in multiple phases of meiosis, and the triple deletion in both. Deletion of Klp2p elongates a metaphase-arrested spindle, but pkl1 Delta shortens it. The anaphase spindle of klp2 Delta becomes longer than the cell, leading it to curl around the cell's ends. Apparently, Klp2p promotes spindle disassembly and contributes to the behavior of mitotic chromosomes.
The effects of mebendazole on P4501A activity in rat hepatocytes and HepG2 cells. Comparison with tiabendazole and omeprazole.	Mebendazole is a benzimidazole anthelmintic widely used in veterinary and human therapy. Among benzimidazole derivatives, several drugs with inducing effect on cytochromes P450 can be found. However, the induction capacity of mebendazole on P450s has not been explored yet. In this study, the effects of mebendazole on P4501A activity was tested in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes and in human hepatoma HepG2 cell line. Two known P4501A inducers with benzimidazole structure, tiabendazole and omeprazole, were also included in the experiments with the aim of studying structure-induction relationships. After 24-, 48- and 72-h incubation of rat hepatocytes and HepG2 cells with drugs in various concentrations (0.1-100 microM), enzyme activity associated with P4501A1/2 (EROD, MROD) was measured. In addition, the P4501A1/2 protein levels in both in-vitro systems were determined by Western-blotting. Mebendazole provoked a significant increase in P4501A1/2 protein expression and P4501A activity in both in-vitro systems. Omeprazole caused a significant dose-dependent increase of P4501A activity only in HepG2 cells. Although tiabendazole treatment led to significant increase of P4501A protein level, no effect on P4501A activity was observed in either system. The results demonstrate that mebendazole possesses the ability to significantly induce P4501A. Thus, pharmacological and toxicological consequences of P4501A induction should be taken into account in human therapy. The structure-induction relationships and differences between in-vitro systems used are discussed.
An in vitro larval motility assay to determine anthelmintic sensitivity for human hookworm and Strongyloides species.	With the implementation of programs to control lymphatic filariasis and soil-transmitted helminths using broad spectrum anthelmintics, including albendazole and ivermectin, there is a need to develop an in vitro assay for detection of drug resistance. This report describes an in vitro assay for measuring the effects of ivermectin and benzimidazoles on the motility of larvae of the hookworm species Ancylostoma ceylanicum, A. caninum, and Necator americanus, and Strongyloides species including Strongyloides stercoralis, and S. ratti. A dose-response relationship was demonstrated with each of the parasite species, with distinct differences observed between the various species. In pilot field testing of the assay with N. americanus larvae recovered from human fecal samples, a dose-response relationship was observed with ivermectin. While the assay has demonstrated the ability to determine drug responsiveness, its usefulness in resistance detection will require correlation with the clinical outcome among individuals infected with parasite strains showing different drug sensitivities.
Resistance to thiabendazole, fenbendazole and levamisole in Haemonchus and Trichostrongylus species in sheep on a Kenyan farm.	Resistance to thiabendazole (TBZ), fenbendazole (FBZ) and levamisole (LVM) in naturally acquired gastrointestinal nematode parasites in sheep was investigated on a farm where anthelmintic resistance was suspected. This was measured by both the in vitro egg hatch assay, and reductions in faecal egg and worm counts in treated animals. In the egg hatch assay, nematode eggs were incubated in various concentrations of either TBZ or LVM. The level of resistance was expressed as the drug concentration inhibiting 50% of the eggs from hatching (LC50). The nematode population had LC50 values of 0.26 microgram ml-1 TBZ and 3.12 micrograms ml-1 LVM. In the faecal egg and worm count reduction test, naturally infected sheep were treated with either TBZ (88 mg kg-1), FBZ (10 mg kg-1) or LVM (15 mg kg-1). Faecal egg and total worm counts from these sheep were then compared with counts from untreated sheep. TBZ, FBZ and LVM failed to reduce the faecal egg counts and total worm counts by more than 90%. Based on the identification of larvae from faecal cultures, the most predominant nematode species in the resistant population were Haemonchus (62%) and Trichostrongylus (28%). TBZ reduced faecal egg counts for both species by less than 90%. FBZ and LVM also reduced Haemonchus spp. eggs by less than 90%. Other nematode species numbers did not satisfy criteria for the determination of efficacy.
Identification of thiabendazole-resistant cyathostome species in Louisiana.	A critical trial was performed with five ponies 6-9 months of age and raised on a horse farm with demonstrated benzimidazole-resistant cyathostomes. Eleven species of cyathostomes were recovered, seven of which had resistance to thiabendazole. Degrees of resistance varied among ponies and from species to species. Resistant species were Cyathostomum coronatum, Cyathostomum catinatum, Cylicostephanus minutus, Cylicostephanus calicatus, Cylicostephanus longibursatus, Cylicostephanus goldi and Cylicocylus nassatus. This is the first study identifying resistant cyathostome species in the Gulf Coast region of the USA and, although no new resistant species were found, results differed somewhat from those of other authors in that none of the cyathostome populations that have been studied contain the same complement of resistant species.
Efficacy of thiabendazole (Mertect 340-F) in controlling mold in turkey confinement housing.	Mertect 340-F (thiabendazole) was evaluated as a mold inhibitor for litter in turkey confinement housing using green oak wood shavings heavily contaminated with mold spores. One day before the addition of shavings, two environmentally controlled rooms were sprayed with Mertect 340-F at a rate of 51.0 ml in 11.37 liters of water (16 fl. oz./6000 sq. ft.). After the litter was added, it was treated with Mertect 340-F at a rate of 33.0 ml in 75.8 liters of water (32 fl. oz./6000 sq. ft.). The litter was treated again at 6 and 12 weeks. Mertect 340-F-treated litter had significantly lower mold spore counts than water-treated litter. Turkeys reared on Mertect 340-F-treated litter displayed no adverse effects. No obvious differences between groups were noted post mortem. Microscopically, however, lungs from turkeys on water-treated litter had a higher incidence of granulomas and mycelia than lungs from birds on Mertect 340-F-treated litter.
In vitro sensitivity of environmental isolates of pathogenic dematiaceous fungi to azole compounds and a phenylpropyl-morpholine derivative.	The in vitro sensitivity (minimum inhibitory concentrations; MICs) of 42 environmental isolates of pathogenic dematiaceous fungi to 7 azole compounds, viz. thiabendazole, ketoconazole, miconazole, econazole bifonazole, Bay n 7133, Bay 1 9139 and phenylpropyl-morpholine derivative, Ro14-4767/002 was studied by an agar dilution method using Emmon's Sabouraud dextrose agar (ESDA) as the culture medium. The isolates of Fonsecaea pedrosoi, Cladosporium carrionii, Exophiala jeanselmei and Ramichloridium subulatum were most sensitive to bifonazole with mean MICs of 0.06 microgram/ml or less; Phialophora verrucosa had an MIC of 0.05 microgram/ml to ketoconazole and Ro14-4767/002, respectively. Ochroconis sp had an MIC of 0.025 microgram/ml to Ro14-4767/002 and Cladosporium tennuisimum 0.39 microgram/ml to ketoconazole. Econazole and thiabendazole also showed good antifungal activity. The fungi were relatively resistant to the more recently developed azoles, viz. Bay n 7133 and Bay 1 9139, the later failing to inhibit C. tennuisimum at a concentration of 100 micrograms/ml. The minimum fungicidal concentrations (MFC) of the drugs were mostly within 2 to 8 fold of the MICs.
The mode of action of some benzimidazole drugs on Trichinella spiralis.	In an attempt to find possible targets for benzimidazole action in muscle-stage larvae of Trichinella spiralis, the effects of mebendazole and thiabendazole were tested in vivo by oral treatment of infested mice and in vitro by including these anthelmintics in an adequate maintenance medium containing decapsulated larvae. The effects of the anthelmintics on succinate dehydrogenase and fumarate reductase activities, measured in the mitochondrial fraction obtained from the in vivo- or in vitro-treated larvae showed that only thiabendazole causes significant inhibition of fumarate reductase activity. On the other hand, measurements of free glucose, glycogen reserves and soluble protein in the treated larvae indicate that in vivo, mebendazole and thiabendazole clearly diminish free glucose levels, although in vitro only mebendazole produces the same diminution. Both the glycogen and protein contents of the larvae remained unchanged after treatment in vivo or in vitro. The importance of these findings with regard to a possible site of action for mebendazole and thiabendazole is discussed.
Halothane, surgery, immunosuppression and artificial pulmonary metastases.	C57B1/6 mice were given intravenous tumor cells on day O. Mice were then given either a brief exposure to halothane anesthesia or given halothane and then underwent a hind limb amputation. Immune testing was done at varying time intervals and correlated with the development of artificial pulmonary metastases. The effects of a single 15 minute exposure to halothane on the immune system are probably short-lived and no effect on cell-mediated cytotoxicity was seen on day 7, nor was an increase in pulmonary metastases observed. However, when anesthesia was combined with surgery, cell-mediated cytotoxicity was impaired and an increase in pulmonary metastases was seen. The use of thiabendazole (TBZ), an nonspecific immunopotentiator, in the perioperative period restored the cell-mediated cytotoxic response and resulted in a significant decrease in pulmonary metastases.
Cell cycle specificity of certain antimicrotubular drugs in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Of the seven antimicrotubular drugs tested, nocodazole, mebendazole and trifluralin at saturable concentrations failed to inhibit cell division in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, while carbendazim, thiabendazole and chloropropham each at 50 micrograms ml- and amiprophos methyl at 200 micrograms ml-1 completely arrested cell division. This inhibition was associated with striking morphological changes in which carbendazim- and thiabendazole-treated cells became elongated and pseudohyphal, whereas chloropropham- and amiprophos methyl-treated cells appeared small and rounded with occasional V-shaped pairs. Lomofungin staining revealed that nuclear division was also arrested by these drugs. Suspected blockage of defined cell cycle stages was confirmed by pulse-induction experiments which revealed that cells could be synchronized into division using exposure to a drug for one generation. Further experiments with synchronous cultures prepared by size selection showed that different drugs possessed different transition points; for example, carbendazim and thiabendazole were effective in blocking a late stage of the cell cycle just prior to division, whereas amiprophos methyl affected a very early stage. The results suggest that some of the drugs used exert cell cycle specificity in S. pombe either by impairing microtubule assembly mechanisms (as with carbendazim and thiabendazole) or by inhibiting synthesis of tubulin subunits (as with amiprophos  methyl). These drugs could prove useful in studies of microtubule biogenesis during the cell cycle in yeast.
Comparison of changes in resistance of Haemonchus contortus eggs following withdrawal of thiabendazole selection.	Two strains of Haemonchus contortus with different levels of thiabendazole resistance were developed from the same parent strains by being subjected to different selection intensities. These two strains were each subdivided into two; one selected by thiabendazole in each generation, the other unselected for four generations. Levels of thiabendazole resistance were monitored in each generation by an in vitro egg hatch technique. During this time the unselected strain with the higher level of resistance maintained an LC50 similar to its selected control. The LC50 of the unselected strain with the lower level of resistance actually increased until at the end of the fourth generation it had an LC50 similar to the thiabendazole selected strains.
Effect of microtubule inhibitors on the tubulin system of Dictyostelium discoideum.	Indirect immunofluorescence with antibodies to microtubular proteins has been used to investigate the microtubule system of Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative amoebae and the action of several compounds that interfere with that system. All the inhibitors tested show an antimicrotubular effect. Colchicine, vinblastine, nocodazole, thiabendazole, and isopropyl-N-phenyl-carbamate (IPC) seem to act mainly by destroying microtubules leaving the appearance of nuclei associated organelles (NAOs) undisturbed. On the other hand griseofulvin also affects NAOs which disappear in treated cells.
Haemonchus contortus: the role of two beta-tubulin gene subfamilies in the resistance to benzimidazole anthelmintics.	The role of beta-tubulin genes in benzimidazole (BZ) resistance was investigated using one susceptible (S) and two resistant (Rt and Rc) strains of Haemonchus contortus. The Rt strain was isolated from the field on the basis of thiabendazole resistance. The Rc strain was derived from the S strain by treatment with cambendazole. cDNAs, derived from the S strain, encoding two isoforms of beta-tubulin (beta 12-16 and beta 8-9), alpha-tubulin and phosphofructokinase (Pfk) were used as probes for Southern hybridization analysis of genomic DNA digested by restriction enzymes. Genomic DNA was isolated from a pool of worms or single worms. The restriction-enzyme fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) differences among these strains depended on the enzyme and the probe used. When digested with Stu I or Hpa I, and probed under stringent conditions with beta 8-9 or beta 12-16, fewer fragments were seen in the Rt and Rc strains than in the S strain. Different hybridizing fragments were found in different individuals. The frequency of individuals bearing certain fragments hybridizing to beta 12-16 or beta 8-9 in the susceptible population was reduced significantly in the resistant populations. Some differences in RFLP between these strains were observed when probed with alpha-tubulin or Pfk, but the changes were not consistent with fragments being lost from the resistant strains as observed for beta-tubulin probes. These changes in RFLP pattern correlate with changes in the binding profiles of BZs and isoelectric isoform patterns reported previously for these strains. The data confirm that reduced heterogeneity within the population is associated with BZ resistance. Our results show that both the beta 8-9 and the beta 12-16 subfamilies of beta-tubulin are affected to a similar extent by this reduction in heterogeneity in a resistant population.
Microtubule-driven nuclear movements and linear elements as meiosis-specific characteristics of the fission yeasts Schizosaccharomyces versatilis and Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Meiotic prophase in Schizosaccharomyces pombe is characterized by striking nuclear movements and the formation of linear elements along chromosomes instead of tripartite synaptonemal complexes. We analysed the organization of nuclei and microtubules in cells of fission yeasts undergoing sexual differentiation. S. japonicus var. versatilis and S. pombe cells were studied in parallel, taking advantage of the better cytology in S. versatilis. During conjugation, microtubules were directed towards the mating projection. These microtubules seem to lead the haploid nuclei together in the zygote by interaction with the spindle pole bodies at the nuclear periphery. After karyogamy, arrays of microtubules emanating from the spindle pole body of the diploid nucleus extended to both cell poles. The same differentiated microtubule configuration was elaborated upon induction of azygotic meiosis in S. pombe. The cyclic movements of the elongated nuclei between the cell poles is reflected by a dynamic and coordinated shortening and lengthening of the two microtubule arrays. When the nucleus was at a cell end, one array was short while the other bridged the whole cell length. Experiments with inhibitors showed that microtubules are required for karyogamy and for the elongated shape and movement of nuclei during meiotic prophase. In both fission yeasts the SPBs and nucleoli are at the leading ends of the moving nuclei. Astral and cytoplasmic microtubules were also prominent during meiotic divisions and sporulation. We further show that in S. versatilis the linear elements formed during meiotic prophase are similar to those in S. pombe. Tripartite synaptonemal complexes were never detected. Taken together, these findings suggest that S. pombe and S. versatilis share basic characteristics in the organization of microtubules and the structure and behaviour of nuclei during their meiotic cell cycle. The prominent differentiations of microtubules and nuclei may be involved in the pairing, recombination, and segregation of meiotic chromosomes.
