Meal patterns of lean and leptin-deficient obese mice in a simulated foraging environment.	C57BL/6J lean and obese (lep -/-) mice were studied in a closed economy operant protocol that simulates foraging. A predetermined number of presses on a procurement lever (PFR) activated a consumatory lever on which presses would produce 20-mg food pellets. Mice could eat as much as they wished but, once no responding occurred for an elapsed 10-min period, the consumatory lever was inactivated and the procurement or foraging cycle began again. Under these conditions, as has been shown for rats and other species, mice initiated relatively discrete meals (about nine per day) at the lowest PFR, and the number of meals initiated per day decreased with increasing PFR. Meal size increased reciprocally, so that total intake was conserved across the range of PFR examined. Obese mice ate larger meals than lean mice at low PFR, and showed further increases but only at the highest PFRs. The small and inconsistent literature on meal patterns in mice is reviewed, and we discuss the utility of the present protocol to study the interactions between genetic and environmental economic factors, and their implications for the etiology of human obesity.
The body shape preferences of Japanese female students.	A questionnaire was developed and administered to 433 female college students in 1985 and 973 females in 1990 to assess their body shape preferences. Their ideal weights for their current heights as estimated by them were analyzed using the body mass index. Our samples perceived their 'average' BMI at -0.5 s.d. of their mean current BMI. As a consequence they were very strict in setting the fat-borderline and tolerant in the thin-borderline. The perceived 'ideal' BMI was at -0.5 s.d. of their perceived 'average' and at about -1.0 s.d. of their actual average. Their extreme slim-body preference might have its root in the lack of proper understanding of what the 'average' body weight was, which might also be affected by the fact that they set their ideal shape at the level even lower than their misunderstood 'average'. The tendency was striking among those who considered their ideal body shape to be 'thin' and 'very thin'. These findings have not changed in the last five years in Japan. As for the 'contentment' regarding their weight, the most satisfied group changed from the nationally estimated 'thin' group to 'very thin' group in the last five years.
Societal influences on a thinner body size in children.	This study was designed to examine whether educational textbook illustrations portray children thinner since the turn of the century. 50 undergraduates each rated 54 third-grade text pictures (3 of boys and 3 of girls in each decade since 1900) on a thinness scale. Analysis indicated a significant trend in thinness for girls but not for boys. Concerns are raised about a connection between educational illustrations of children and eating disorders.
Distress tolerance in the eating disorders.	It is commonly noted that patients with eating disorders have difficulties in regulating emotional states. This construct is similar to the concept of distress tolerance, which has been identified as a problem in patients with impulsive disorders. However, the elements that make up distress tolerance are not clearly delineated, making it difficult to target treatment in relevant cases. This study aimed to develop a measure of distress tolerance, and to validate it clinically with the eating disorders.
Self-presentational motives in eating disordered behavior: a known groups difference approach.	This study investigated the role of self-presentation motivation across three groups with known differences in disordered eating behavior.
Religion, weight perception, and weight control behavior.	Religion's relationships with weight perception and weight control behavior were examined using data (3032 adults aged 25-74) from the National Survey of Midlife Development in the United States. Religion was conceptualized as denomination, religious attendance/practice, religious social support, religious commitment, religious application, and religious identity. Weight perception was conceptualized as underestimating body weight, overestimating body weight, and accurately assessing body weight. Respondents also reported whether they had engaged in any intentional weight loss (yes/no) in the last 12 months. Logistic regression was used, with significant results being set at a p-values of <.01 and <.05. Accurately assessing body weight was the reference category for all weight perception analyses. Women with greater religious commitment and men with greater religious application had greater odds of underestimating their body weight. This relationship remained significant, controlling for age, race/ethnicity, education, and income. Jewish women had greater odds of overestimating their body weight. There were no relationships between religion and weight control behavior. Relationships between religion, weight perception, and weight control behavior illustrate religion's multidimensionality.
Adaptive elements of aging: Self-image discrepancy, perfectionism, and eating problems.	Age-related changes in personality variables that may contribute to the reduction of symptoms of eating disorders with adult development were examined. Undergraduate sorority women (n = 52; mean age = 19.85 years) were compared with alumnae of the same sorority (n = 34; mean age = 33.74 years). Eating pathology was correlated with greater discrepancy between the real (current) and the ideal (desired) self-image and with perfectionism. Both self-image discrepancy and perfectionism were markedly lower among the alumnae. Variance in these variables together accounted for the lowered level of eating pathology among the older participants. Specific content domains of the real and ideal self-image and different facets of perfectionism showed distinctive age-related changes and differential relationships with eating pathology.
Clinical, psychological and personality features related to age of onset of anorexia nervosa.	To investigate the relationship between age of onset and clinical and personality features of patients with anorexia nervosa (AN).
Friendship quality, body dissatisfaction, dieting and disordered eating in adolescent girls.	This study examined relationships between adolescent girls' body dissatisfaction and disordered eating, quality of same-sex peer relationships and beliefs about thinness in interpersonal relationships, before and after controlling for depression.
Automatic evaluation of body-related images.	An affective priming task was used to determine whether females automatically evaluate body-related images, and to establish whether this is moderated by appearance schematicity, thin internalisation, body dissatisfaction, and dietary restraint. In a within participants design, the valence congruence of the prime and target pairs was manipulated, as was the interval between them. Undergraduate females (N=87, Experiment 1 and N=72, Experiment 2) individually selected colour images as the primes. Each prime was presented briefly, followed by a target word which the participant judged as "good" or "bad". The dependent variable was response latency to the target word. Automatic evaluation was evident; responding to congruent pairs was faster than responding to incongruent pairs. The individual difference variables were not related to automaticity. The findings suggest that brief encounters with body-related images are likely to produce automatic affective responses in young women irrespective of body-related concerns.
Dietary restraint and gestational weight gain.	To determine whether a history of preconceptional dieting and restrained eating was related to higher weight gains in pregnancy.
Perceived control, drive for thinness, and food consumption: anorexic tendencies as displaced reactance.	Although loss of perceived control has been implicated in the development of eating disorders, previous research has not directly tested the relationship between perceived control and food consumption. This study investigated the hypothesis that individuals with anorexic tendencies react to low perceived control by restricting food intake as a means of regaining a sense of control. Forty female undergraduates who scored either low or high on the Drive for Thinness Scale (Garner & Olmsted, 1984) were led to believe they would be participating in two separate studies. Perceived control was experimentally manipulated such that half of the subjects experienced low control and half experienced high control over a social situation. Under the guise of a second experiment, subjects tasted breakfast cereals and completed measures relevant to eating and body image. Results showed that subjects who were high in drive for thinness (DT) who experienced low control ate less sweetened cereal and planned to eat less at dinner than high DT subjects who experienced high control. Low DT subjects were unaffected by the control manipulation. The results are discussed in terms of displaced reactance.
High frequency of psychopathology in subjects wishing to lose weight: an observational study in Italian subjects.	To investigate the frequency of psychiatric disorders in subjects wishing to lose weight categorized according to BMI.
Maternal worries about child underweight mediate and moderate the relationship between child feeding disorders and mother-child feeding interactions.	To examine the role of maternal worries about child underweight and undereating in mother-child feeding interactions with children having a feeding disorder (FD).
The effect of priming materialism on women's responses to thin-ideal media.	Consumer culture is characterized by two prominent ideals: the 'body perfect' and the material 'good life'. Although the impact of these ideals has been investigated in separate research literatures, no previous research has examined whether materialism is linked to women's responses to thin-ideal media. Data from several studies confirm that the internalization of materialistic and body-ideal values is positively linked in women. After developing a prime for materialism (N = 50), we present an experimental examination (N = 155) of the effects of priming materialism on women's responses to thin-ideal media, using multiple outcome measures of state body dissatisfaction. Priming materialism affects women's body dissatisfaction after exposure to thin media models, but differently depending on the dimension of body image measured. The two main novel findings are that (1) priming materialism heightens the centrality of appearance to women's self-concept and (2) priming materialism influences the activation of body-related self-discrepancies (BRSDs), particularly for highly materialistic women. Exposure to materialistic media has a clear influence on women's body image, with trait materialism a further vulnerability factor for negative exposure effects in response to idealized, thin media models.
Elevated eating disorder symptoms in women with a history of oral contraceptive side effects.	Previous research suggests a link between gonadal hormones and eating disorder symptomatology. This study examined the role of gonadal hormones and hormonal sensitivity in eating disorder (ED) symptoms by using oral contraceptive (OC) side effect history as an indicator of hormonal sensitivity. A questionnaire containing two scales of the Eating Disorder Inventory-2 and an OC side effect scale was completed by 174 healthy women who had used OCs. Histories of emotional and physical OC side effects were evaluated as predictors of body dissatisfaction and drive for thinness. Women with a history of negative OC side effects had higher levels of ED symptoms. After controlling for body mass index (BMI) and depression scores, OC side effect history remained a significant predictor of body dissatisfaction and drive for thinness. The experience of OC side effects may indicate a greater risk for increased eating disorder symptoms. The findings provide further support for a hormonal link to ED symptoms, as women who are more "sensitive" to exogenous gonadal hormones also experience more ED symptoms.
A longitudinal study of motives for wishing to be thinner and weight-control practices in 7- to 18-year-old Swedish girls.	The main aim of this seven-year longitudinal study, of 411 Swedish pre-adolescent girls (aged 7-11 years, Year 1), was to examine a wish to be thinner, dieting attempts, described motives for wishing to be thinner and weight-control practices. A further aim was to examine to what extent body mass index (BMI) accounted for motives for wishing to be thinner and weight-control practices. A wish to be thinner and dieting attempts increased significantly with increasing age between the ages of 9 and 18. The most frequently reported motive for wishing to be thinner was to 'feel better about yourself'. Categories that emerged from the qualitative analysis of self-described motives for the wish to be thinner were, for example, to 'correspond to the societal ideal' and to 'wear particular clothes'. A majority of the girls adopted weight-control practices that would be considered as healthy, but extreme weight-control practices increased with age. Girls with BMIs over the 75th percentile reported a greater number of motives for wishing to be thinner and used extreme weight-control practices significantly more often than the other girls. However, of the girls who changed BMI from above the 75th percentile to under the 75th percentile, 34.1% reported that they had not used any weight-control practices at all. Our results show that girls at a very early age are aware of the 'thin' ideal in our society, wish to be thinner and try to lose weight. The results point to the importance of detecting girls who wish to be thinner as early as possible. If we can employ preventive action in time, it is possible that dieting behaviour will never develop.
Weight information labels on media models reduce body dissatisfaction in adolescent girls.	To examine how weight information labels on variously sized media models affect (pre)adolescent girls' body perceptions and how they compare themselves with media models.
Relationships between body satisfaction and psychological functioning and weight-related cognitions and behaviors in overweight adolescents.	To examine how differences in body satisfaction may influence weight control behaviors, eating, weight and shape concerns, and psychological well-being among overweight adolescents.
Disordered eating and gender identity disorder: a qualitative study.	The association between disordered eating and gender identity was examined in a sample of 20 (11 female-to-male, 9 male-to-female) transgender Finnish adults, aged 21-62 years. Using semi-structured interviews, participants' own understanding of the underlying causes of their disordered eating was analyzed, as well as the effect of gender reassignment on eating behaviors and cognitions. A majority of the participants reported current or past disordered eating. Participants most frequently described strive for thinness as an attempt to suppress features of one's biological gender, or accentuate features of one's desired gender. Gender reassignment was primarily perceived as alleviating symptoms of disordered eating.
Masculinity theory in applied research with men and boys with intellectual disability.	Researchers in intellectual disability have had limited theoretical engagement with mainstream theories of masculinity. In this article, the authors consider what mainstream theories of masculinity may offer to applied research on, and hence to therapeutic interventions with, men and boys with intellectual disability. An example from one research project that explored male sexual health illustrates how using masculinity theory provided greater insight into gendered data. Finally, we discuss the following five topics to illustrate how researchers might use theories of masculinity: (a) fathering, (b) male physical expression, (c) sexual expression, (d) men's health, and (e) underweight and obesity. Theories of masculinity offer an additional framework to analyze and conceptualize gendered data; we challenge researchers to engage with this body of work.
Predictors of symptomatic improvement in eating disorders. Preliminary analysis]	The article discusses the preliminary results of a follow-up study carried out in 2009-2010 on former patients with a diagnosis of anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, first seen in 2001-2004 at the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the Jagiellonian University Medical College in Krakow. At that time they had been taking part in a research project, whose aim was to define the relationships among the psychopathological picture of eating disorders, self-image and family relations and also the influence of socio-cultural factors. The aim of the current study is to attempt to define factors influencing the course and prognosis of eating disorders in the studied group.
The influence of materialism and ideal body internalization on body-dissatisfaction and body-shaping behaviors of young men and women: support for the Consumer Culture Impact Model.	Exposure to media images of the 'body-perfect' ideal has been partly blamed for the pursuit of thinness among women and muscularity among men. Research has largely overlooked the materialistic messages frequently associated with these images. We present findings from two studies with Icelandic students aged 18-21, one focusing on young women (n = 303) and one on young men (n = 226), which test associations of materialistic and body-perfect ideals with body dissatisfaction and excessive body shaping behaviors. In both studies, the internalization of materialistic values is strongly linked to the internalization of body-perfect ideals: the thin-ideal for young women, and the muscular-ideal for young men. A materialist value orientation also predicted body dissatisfaction in both studies, and was linked to body shaping behaviors, albeit differently for young women and men. Thus, the research identifies materialism as a further correlate of both body dissatisfaction and excessive body-shaping behaviors. The findings support Dittmar's (2008) Consumer Culture Impact Model, which proposes that the body-perfect and 'material good life' ideals jointly impact well-being.
Weight status and psychological distress in a Mediterranean Spanish population: a symmetric U-shaped relationship.	Psychological disorders in people with extreme weight (low weight or obesity) should be taken into consideration by health professionals in order to practice an effective treatment to these patients. This study evaluates the association between body mass index (BMI) and psychological distress in 563 inhabitants of Málaga (South of Spain). Participants were classified in four categories of BMI: Underweight (BMI <18.5 Kg/m2), Normal weight (BMI 18.5-24.99 Kg/m2), Overweight (BMI 25.0-29.99 Kg/m2) and Obesity (BMI >30 Kg/m2). Psychological distress was measured with the Spanish version of the Derogatis' Symptoms Checklist Revised (SCL-90-R). We observed a symmetric U-shaped relationship between weight status and psychological distress in all SCL-90-R dimensions (p for quadratic trend <0.001) for both men and women. Participants with extreme weight showed the worst psychological status, and participants with normal weight exhibited the best. We found no statistically significant differences between underweight and obese participants in 9 of the 10 SCL-90-R dimensions analyzed among men, and in 8 of the 10 dimensions among women. Underweight and obese participants showed no gender differences in psychological distress levels. Psychological treatment of Mediterranean people with extreme weight, should consider underweight and obese patients at the same level of psychological distress. 
Under-eating and over-eating concerns among adolescents.	462 adolescents were given a set of scales to determine their concerns about eating (under-eating or over-eating), and perceptions of family and peer intimacy, social support, self-esteem, depression and exercise. Although only 10% stated that they were "underweight" and 21% that they were "overweight", as many as 50% reported having eating concerns. As compared to those who did not have concerns about eating, those who were concerned about undereating felt that they had poorer relationships with their mothers and fathers, less social support, lower self-esteem and low levels of exercise. In contrast, those who were concerned about overeating perceived having an intimacy problem only with their fathers. Like those concerned about undereating, the group concerned about overeating also had lower self-esteem and low levels of exercise. But, unlike the under-eating concern group, the over-eating concern group scored higher on the depression scale.
