Lean, nondiabetic Asian Indians have decreased insulin sensitivity and insulin clearance, and raised leptin compared to Caucasians and Chinese subjects.	To study and compare the insulin sensitivity of healthy, nondiabetic Asian Indians with that of two other ethnic groups (Caucasian and Chinese) living in Singapore.
Analysis of the current somatometric, biochemical and hematological parameters in patients with pathology of the internal organs and low body weight]	In clause the technique of the analysis of short-term changes antrhopometric of parameters of structure of a body and parameters of blood of the patients having a pathology of bodies of digestion and with cardiovascular of system in a combination to deficiency of weight is resulted. The uncasual clinical intergroup distinctions are investigated and the diagnostic importance of a complex of individual estimations is revealed. Use of a technique of the statistical analysis received parameters allows to estimate efficiency of realization of a nutrition healthy and patient of diseases.
Weight gain and cardiovascular risk factors during smoking cessation with bupropion or nicotine.	Weight gain is frequent after smoking cessation, and may limit patient's will to quit and long-term success. Nicotine and bupropion are effective drugs for smoking withdrawal. However, their influence on weight gain, insulin resistance and other cardiovascular risk factors, as well as possible differences in obese and lean subjects, have not been fully evaluated. We randomised 25 lean and 25 obese smokers to receive either bupropion or nicotine patches. Clinical evaluation and lipid profile were performed at baseline and after treatment. Insulin resistance was also assessed at the end. Weight, BMI, waist-to-hip ratio, and diastolic blood pressure increased (p < 0.005), whereas lipid profile improved (p < 0.001) after smoking cessation independently of obesity at baseline or drug used. Obese patients had higher insulin resistance at the end (p < 0.05) regardless of drug used. Weight gain was inversely related to age (beta= - 0.125, R = 0.38, p = 0.046), and insulin resistance was related to obesity at baseline (beta = 0.85, R = 0.46, p = 0.02). In conclusion, weight gain after smoking cessation is not dependent on obesity or drug taken. A beneficial lipid profile is achieved after quitting smoking with either bupropion or nicotine patch in both obese and lean subjects.
Adiponectin in anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.	To study the role of adiponectin, a novel adipocyte-specific secreted protein, on the pathophysiology of eating disorders, circulating levels of fasting adiponectin, leptin, insulin, and glucose were measured in 31 female patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) and in 11 with bulimia nervosa. Hormone levels were compared with 16 age-matched, normal body weight controls, six healthy constitutionally thin subjects, and nine obese subjects. Moreover, changes in levels were reevaluated after nutritional treatment and weight gain in 13 patients with AN. Serum adiponectin concentrations in AN and bulimia nervosa were significantly lower than those in normal-weight controls. These results were unexpected because the levels were high in constitutionally thin subjects and low in obese subjects, which provide a negative correlation with body mass index (BMI) and body fat mass. In contrast, serum leptin levels correlated very well with BMI and fat mass among all the patients and controls. The insulin resistance was significantly low in AN and high in obese subjects. The concentrations of adiponectin after weight recovery increased to the normal level despite a relatively small increase in BMI. These findings suggest that abnormal feeding behavior in the patients with eating disorders may reduce circulating adiponectin level, and weight recovery can restore it.
Adrenal medullary overactivity in lean, borderline hypertensive young men.	There may be a link among stress, adrenal medullary activation, and the development of hypertension. Obesity is characterized by sympathetic activation and predisposes to hypertension, but may be associated with low or normal adrenal medullary activity. We hypothesized that plasma epinephrine (E) levels and adrenal medullary responsiveness to mental stress are lower in overweight than in lean borderline hypertensive subjects.
Feeding response to a potent prolactin-releasing peptide agonist in lean and obese Zucker rats.	Prolactin (PRL)-releasing peptide (PrRP) is a new peptide present in the hypothalamus and in the circulation that may be involved in the regulation of feeding behavior. In the present experiment, we measured it in a well-known model of obesity, the Zucker rat. We also measured the reactivity of this animal in terms of food intake after the intraperitoneal (I.P.) or central injection of PrRP-13, a potent PrRP agonist. Plasma PrRP levels were 35% lower in obese fa/fa than in the lean rats (p<0.005). I.P. injections of PrRP-13 (10 mg/kg) stimulated food intake in lean and had no effect in obese rats (p<0.001). Intracerebral injections of PrRP-13 had no effects in both genotypes. Altogether, these results do not support a role for PrRP in the hyperphagia and obesity syndrome of the Zucker rat.
Identification of Amadori-modified plasma proteins in type 2 diabetes and the effect of short-term intensive insulin treatment.	Growing evidence supports that nonenzymatic glycation products may cause hyperglycemia-induced diabetes complications. Amadori-modified proteins are the intermediate products of nonenzymatic glycation and constitute the forms of glycated proteins in diabetes. The objective of the current study was to utilize two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, Western blot, and mass spectrometry to identify Amadori-modified plasma proteins in type 2 diabetic patients with poor glycemic control and assess the impact of short-term insulin treatment on the glycation of these proteins.
Plasma levels of soluble tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptors are related to total and LDL-cholesterol in lean, but not in obese subjects.	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is a mediator of insulin resistance. Plasma levels of soluble TNFalpha receptors (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2) probably reflect paracrine action of the cytokine. TNFalpha is also a regulator of lipid metabolism, however, data about impact of obesity on the relationships between TNFalpha and plasma lipids remain controversial.
Basal insulin levels in a Zulia State population in Venezuela]	This study examines the basal insulin levels in a population from Zulia state (Venezuela). A total of 1703 subjects (1175 women and 528 men) from five different sanitary regions (Maracaibo, La Guajira, Perijá, Sur del Lago de Maracaibo, y Costa Oriental del Lago de Maracaibo) were studied. Weight, height, waist and hip circumferences, and blood pressure were determined. A blood sample was taken after a 12-h overnight fast to determine serum glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol and HDL-C using enzymatic methods and insulin by radioimmunoassay. According to ATP III criteria two groups were established: a group without metabolic abnormalities (138 subjects) and a group with some metabolic abnormalities 84.8% of subjects of the non metabolic alteration groups and 80.4% of the group with some metabolic alteration were of mixed race. Non metabolic altered lean subjects (BMI <25 Kg/m2) had the lowest (p < 0.0001) basal insulin levels compared to the ones with overweight from the same group and the obese with metabolic abnormalities. This study proposes to consider a cutoff basal insulin levels of 13 microU/mL for women and 11 microU/mL for men, over 20 years of age, in the Zulia state region of Venezuela.
Energy expenditure adjusted for body composition differentiates constitutional thinness from both normal subjects and anorexia nervosa.	Constitutional thinness (CT) is characterized by a low and stable body mass index (BMI) without any hormonal abnormality. To understand the weight steadiness, energetic metabolism was evaluated. Seven CT, seven controls, and six anorexia nervosa (AN) young women were compared. CT and AN had a BMI <16.5 kg/m(2). Four criteria were evaluated: 1) energy balance including diet record, resting metabolic rate (RMR) (indirect calorimetry), total energy expenditure (TEE) (doubly labeled water), physical activity; 2) body composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry); 3) biological markers (leptin, IGF-I, free T3); 4) psychological profile of eating behavior. The normality of free T3 (3.7 +/- 0.5 pmol/l), IGF-I (225 +/- 93 ng/ml), and leptin (8.3 +/- 3.4 ng/ml) confirmed the absence of undernutrition in CT. Their psychological profiles revealed a weight gain desire. TEE (kJ/day) in CT (8,382 +/- 988) was not found significantly different from that of controls (8,793 +/- 845) and AN (8,001 +/- 2,152). CT food intake (7,565 +/- 908 kJ/day) was found similar to that of controls (7,961 +/- 1,452 kJ/day) and higher than in AN (4,894 +/- 703 kJ/day), thus explaining the energy metabolism balance. Fat-free mass (FFM) (kg) was similar in CT and AN (32.5 +/- 2.9 vs. 34.1 +/- 1.9) and higher in controls (37.8 +/- 1.6). While RMR absolute values (kJ/day) were lower in CT (4,839 +/- 473) than in controls (5,576 +/- 209), RMR values adjusted for FFM were the highest in CT. TEE-to-FFM ratio was also higher in CT than in controls. Energetic metabolism balance maintains a stable low weight in CT. An increased energy expenditure-to-FFM ratio differentiates CT from controls and could account for the resistance to weight gain observed in CT.
Peptide YY release in anorectic patients after liquid meal.	Fasting and postprandial levels of human peptide YY (PYY) were recently found to be lower in obesity. To investigate whether PYY levels are correspondingly high in patients with anorexia nervosa, PYY concentrations were analyzed under basal conditions and in response to a liquid meal. We investigated PYY plasma levels in 16 female anorectic (BMI 15.2+/-0.3 kg/m2) and seven lean subjects (BMI 21.3+/-0.6 kg/m2) before and after ingestion of a liquid meal (250 kcal; 15% protein, 55% carbohydrates, and 30% fat). PYY levels were analyzed using PYY ELISA (DSL, USA). Values are given as mean+/-SEM. Basal PYY levels in anorectic patients (89.0+/-14.4 pg/mL) were not significantly different from lean subjects (64.1+/-12.1 pg/mL). Postprandial PYY levels in healthy volunteers increased significantly after 20 and 60 min (80.4+/-12.7 and 96.0+/-19.9 pg/mL, respectively). In anorectic women PYY was increased at 20 min (137.9+/-19.5 pg/mL) and at 60 min (151.3+/-19.2 pg/mL). No difference was found between both groups. We conclude that basal and postprandial PYY levels in normal weight women are not different from anorectic patients. We could not confirm the recently published blunted postprandial PYY response in anorexia, a finding that merits further study.
Drive for thinness score is a proxy indicator of energy deficiency in exercising women.	The purpose of this study was to determine the association between drive for thinness (DT) and adaptations to energy deficiency in exercising women. This observational study evaluated psychometric and metabolic factors in sedentary (n=9, 27.9+/-2.0 yr) and exercising women (n=43, 24.0+/-1.1 yr). Volunteers were retrospectively grouped according to exercise status (sedentary or exercising) and a DT score of normal (sedentary or exercising) or high (exercising only). Resting energy expenditure (REE) and metabolic hormones (triiodothyronine, (TT3), ghrelin, leptin, insulin) were measured repeatedly over a 2-3 month period. The DT subscale successfully discriminated the groups based on energy status. Although the groups did not differ in body weight, the high DT group exhibited adaptations to chronic energy deficiency, including a REE below 90% of their predicted REE (86+/-3.0%), significantly lower TT3 levels and significantly higher ghrelin levels than the normal DT groups. Since energy deficiency plays a causal role in the Female Athlete Triad, DT may serve as a proxy indicator of underlying energy deficiency and may be useful for identifying individuals at risk for Triad disorders prior to the development of serious clinical sequelae.
Therapeutic response to metformin in an underweight patient with polycystic ovarian syndrome.	To report a case where insulin sensitization restored menses in an underweight woman with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).
Temporal changes in anthropometric parameters and lipid profile according to body mass index among an adult Iranian urban population.	To examine changes in anthropometric parameters and lipid profiles over a period of 3.6 years in an Iranian adult population according to body mass index (BMI) groups.
Is there a unique measuring method to assess obesity?]	In the literature there is not available a uniformly accepted method for assessing the degree of obesity.
Analysis of the relationship of leptin, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, adiponectin, insulin, and uric acid to metabolic syndrome in lean, overweight, and obese young females.	Over the last decade there has been a steady rise in obesity and co-morbidity, but little is known about the rate of metabolic dysfunction among young adults in the United Arab Emirates. Various factors have been implicated as biomarkers of metabolic syndrome. The objective of this study was to analyze the relationships of leptin, C-reactive protein (CRP), adiponectin, insulin, and uric acid to the metabolic syndrome components in lean, overweight, and obese young females.
Influence of significant weight loss on serum matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7 levels.	Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their specific inhibitors (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases [TIMPs]), are involved in adipogenesis, angiogenesis and remodeling of extracellular matrix. MMPs and TIMPs have been shown to be associated with various diseases such as neurological disorders, malignancies and cardiovascular disease. MMPs and TIMPs are thought to play a major role in extensive reorganization of the adipose tissue in obesity.
The influence of overweight and obesity on longitudinal trends in maternal serum leptin levels during pregnancy.	Maternal obesity influences a number of metabolic factors that can affect the course of pregnancy. Among these factors, leptin plays an important role in energy metabolism and fetal development during pregnancy. Our objective was to estimate the influence of maternal overweight/obesity on variation in the maternal serum leptin profile during pregnancy. In a prospective cohort of 143 adult gravidas with singleton pregnancies presenting for general prenatal care, we measured serum leptin levels at 6-10, 10-14, 16-20, 22-26, and 32-36 weeks' gestation. The longitudinal effects of maternal prepregnancy BMI, categorized as nonoverweight (≤ 26.0 kg/m(2)) and overweight/obese (>26.0 kg/m(2)), on serum leptin concentration were analyzed using linear mixed models. Overweight/obese women had significantly higher serum leptin concentrations than their nonoverweight counterparts throughout pregnancy (P < 0.01). Although these concentrations increased significantly across gestation for both groups, the rate of increase was significantly smaller for overweight/obese women (P < 0.05). To investigate whether these differences merely reflected differences in weight-gain patterns between the two groups, we examined an index of leptin concentration per unit body weight (leptin (ng/ml)/weight (kg)). Overweight/obese women had a significantly higher index throughout pregnancy (P < 0.01). However, although this index increased significantly across pregnancy for nonoverweight women, it actually decreased significantly for overweight/obese women (P < 0.01). Our results suggest that factors other than fat mass alone influence leptin concentrations in overweight/obese women compared to normal-weight women during pregnancy. Such factors may contribute to differences in the intrauterine environment and its influence on pregnancy outcomes in the two groups.
Circulating omentin as a novel biomarker of endothelial dysfunction.	Omentin is a novel soluble lectin expressed mainly in the stromal-vascular cells from visceral adipose tissue with vasodilator effect in isolated blood vessels. To gain insight in the relationship between obesity and cardiovascular risk factors, we aimed to explore the interaction among circulating omentin, metabolic parameters, and endothelial function. Circulating omentin (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) was studied in 248 white men (148 with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and 100 with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT)). Insulin sensitivity was measured using the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test. Vascular reactivity was measured by high-resolution ultrasound of the brachial artery. Circulating omentin concentration was significantly increased in lean compared with overweight and obese subjects (53.7 ± 16.9 vs. 45.2 ± 16.8 and vs. 40.1 ± 15.5 ng/ml, P < 0.0001). Circulating omentin concentration correlated with age, BMI, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), percentage of fat mass, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, endothelium-dependent and independent vasodilation (EDV and EIV), C-reactive protein, and interleukin-6 (IL-6). In IGT subjects, circulating omentin concentration also correlated with insulin sensitivity, although this association did not remain significant after controlling for BMI. In a multiple linear regression analysis, circulating omentin concentration (P = 0.01), systolic blood pressure (P = 0.04), and BMI (P = 0.04) contributed independently to EDV after controlling for age and C-reactive protein in IGT subjects. In NGT subjects, only circulating omentin concentration (P = 0.01) was significantly associated with EDV. In conclusion, circulating omentin concentration could be a useful marker of endothelial function.
Prediction of postprandial glycemia and insulinemia in lean, young, healthy adults: glycemic load compared with carbohydrate content alone.	Dietary glycemic load (GL; defined as the mathematical product of the glycemic index and carbohydrate content) is increasingly used in nutritional epidemiology. Its ability to predict postprandial glycemia and insulinemia for a wide range of foods or mixed meals is unclear.
Vitamin C status is related to proinflammatory responses and impaired vascular endothelial function in healthy, college-aged lean and obese men.	Vitamin C supplementation has been suggested to reduce cardiovascular disease risk. However, no studies have examined the relationship between vitamin C status and vascular dysfunction in lean and obese individuals in the absence of supplementation. We examined whether vascular function is interrelated with vitamin C status and inflammation in healthy, college-aged lean and obese men with no history of dietary supplementation. A cross-sectional study was conducted during winter 2008 in lean and obese men aged 21±3 years (n=8/group). Brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD) was measured to determine vascular endothelial function. Plasma antioxidants (vitamin C, vitamin E, and thiols), inflammatory proteins (C-reactive protein [CRP], myeloperoxidase [MPO], and cytokines), and cellular adhesion molecules were measured. Participants also completed 3-day food records on the days preceding their vascular testing. Group differences were evaluated by t tests, and correlation coefficients were determined by linear regression. FMD was 21% lower (P<0.05) in obese men. They also had 51% lower vitamin C intakes and 38% lower plasma vitamin C concentrations. Obese men had greater plasma concentrations of CRP, MPO, inflammatory cytokines, and cellular adhesion molecules. Participants' CRP and MPO were each inversely related (P<0.05) to FMD (r=-0.528 and -0.625) and plasma vitamin C (r=-0.646 and -0.701). These data suggest that low vitamin C status is associated with proinflammatory responses and impaired vascular function in lean and obese men. Additional study is warranted to determine whether improving dietary vitamin C intakes from food attenuate vascular dysfunction.
Daily rhythms of plasma melatonin, but not plasma leptin or leptin mRNA, vary between lean, obese and type 2 diabetic men.	Melatonin and leptin exhibit daily rhythms that may contribute towards changes in metabolic physiology. It remains unclear, however, whether this rhythmicity is altered in obesity or type 2 diabetes (T2DM). We tested the hypothesis that 24-hour profiles of melatonin, leptin and leptin mRNA are altered by metabolic status in laboratory conditions. Men between 45-65 years old were recruited into lean, obese-non-diabetic or obese-T2DM groups. Volunteers followed strict sleep-wake and dietary regimes for 1 week before the laboratory study. They were then maintained in controlled light-dark conditions, semi-recumbent posture and fed hourly iso-energetic drinks during wake periods. Hourly blood samples were collected for hormone analysis. Subcutaneous adipose biopsies were collected 6-hourly for gene expression analysis. Although there was no effect of subject group on the timing of dim light melatonin onset (DLMO), nocturnal plasma melatonin concentration was significantly higher in obese-non-diabetic subjects compared to weight-matched T2DM subjects (p<0.01) and lean controls (p<0.05). Two T2DM subjects failed to produce any detectable melatonin, although did exhibit plasma cortisol rhythms comparable to others in the group. Consistent with the literature, there was a significant (p<0.001) effect of subject group on absolute plasma leptin concentration and, when expressed relative to an individual's 24-hour mean, plasma leptin showed significant (p<0.001) diurnal variation. However, there was no difference in amplitude or timing of leptin rhythms between experimental groups. There was also no significant effect of time on leptin mRNA expression. Despite an overall effect (p<0.05) of experimental group, post-hoc analysis revealed no significant pair-wise effects of group on leptin mRNA expression. Altered plasma melatonin rhythms in weight-matched T2DM and non-diabetic individuals supports a possible role of melatonin in T2DM aetiology. However, neither obesity nor T2DM changed 24-hour rhythms of plasma leptin relative to cycle mean, or expression of subcutaneous adipose leptin gene expression, compared with lean subjects.
Prevalence and risk factors for poor nutritional status among children in the Kilimanjaro region of Tanzania.	The current study investigated the prevalence and risk factors for poor nutritional status among children less than 36 months of age in the Kilimanjaro region of Tanzania. Using a cross sectional study design, children and their caregivers were recruited into the study. Anthropometric measures were taken based on established protocol while a standard questionnaire was utilized to collect socio-demographic data. A finger-prick blood sample was collected from all the children and haemoglobin (Hb) concentration analyzed using a HemoCue photometer (HemoCue AB, Angelholm, Sweden). Four hundred and twenty three (423) children (214 females) took part in this study. Participating children were aged between 1–35 months (mean = 13.04, SD = 7.70). We observed high rates of stunting (44.2%) and underweight (19.1%). Nearly 70% (n = 295) of the sample was anaemic (Hb < 11 g/dL). In a multivariate logistic regression model concerns on child growth, maternal education, and child's age were found to independently predict stunting; whereas concerns over child's growth and development, and distance to water source were found to uniquely predict being underweight. Maternal education was the only factor related to the child's anaemia. The current study further emphasizes the need to implement context relevant interventions to combat malnutrition in this region of Tanzania and other similar settings.
Resveratrol protects the brain of obese mice from oxidative damage.	Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) is a polyphenolic phytoalexin that exerts cardioprotective, neuroprotective, and antioxidant effects. Recently it has been shown that obesity is associated with an increase in cerebral oxidative stress levels, which may enhance neurodegeneration. The present study evaluates the neuroprotective action of resveratrol in brain of obese (ob/ob) mice. Resveratrol was administered orally at the dose of 25 mg kg(-1) body weight daily for three weeks to lean and obese mice. Resveratrol had no effect on body weight or blood glucose levels in obese mice. Lipid peroxides were significantly increased in brain of obese mice. The enzymatic antioxidants superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and nonenzymatic antioxidants tocopherol, ascorbic acid, and glutathione were decreased in obese mice brain. Administration of resveratrol decreased lipid peroxide levels and upregulated the antioxidant activities in obese mice brain. Our findings indicate a neuroprotective effect of resveratrol by preventing oxidative damage in brain tissue of obese mice. 
Effect of relative weight group change on nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy derived lipoprotein particle size and concentrations among adolescents.	To examine whether longitudinal changes in relative weight category (as indicated by change in body mass index [BMI] classification group) were associated with changes in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-derived lipoprotein particles among US youth.
Haematology and blood composition at two ambient temperatures in genetically fat and lean adult broiler breeder females fed ad libitum or restricted throughout life.	1. Genetically fat and lean adult broiler breeder females were fed ad libitum or restricted throughout life. At one year of age, comparisons of blood viscosity and haematology and changes in blood chemistry after exposure to thermal stress were conducted. 2. Whole blood viscosity was more than twice as high, and plasma triglyceride and haemoglobin concentrations were over 30% higher in fat line than in lean line females fed ad libitum or in restricted birds of both genotypes. 3. Mean cell haemoglobin concentration was higher and mean cell volume lower in fat compared with lean line females. 4. Food restriction was associated with lower plasma triglyceride concentrations, lower numbers of heterophils and monocytes and a lower heterophil-lymphocyte ratio. 5. Fat line birds had a higher blood pCO2 and lower pH than lean line birds. 6. Thermal stress was associated in ad libitum-fed birds with a rise in blood pH and a decrease in pCO2, and in restricted birds with a decline in blood pH and an increase in pCO2. 7. Blood creatine kinase activity increased in all groups under thermal stress.
Relationship between insulin sensitivity and plasma leptin concentration in lean and obese men.	Alterations in the production of or the sensitivity to leptin, the protein encoded by the ob gene, cause obesity and diabetes in rodents. We evaluated the isolated relationship between leptin and insulin sensitivity in lean and obese humans. Three groups of subjects who were carefully matched for either insulin sensitivity (determined by the modified intravenous glucose tolerance test and minimal model analysis) or adiposity (determined by hydrodensitometry) were studied: 1) lean insulin-sensitive men (percentage body fat, 15 +/- 1%); 2) lean insulin-resistant men (percentage body fat, 16 +/- 1%), matched on percentage body fat and fat mass with the lean insulin-sensitive group; and 3) obese insulin-resistant men (percentage body fat, 31 +/- 3), matched on insulin sensitivity with the lean insulin-resistant group. Basal plasma leptin concentrations were significantly lower in the lean insulin-sensitive than in the lean insulin-resistant men (1.90 +/- 0.4 vs. 4.35 +/- 1.21 ng/ml, P < 0.05) despite identical body composition. Plasma leptin in the obese men (9.27 +/- 1.4 ng/ml) was significantly higher than values in the two lean groups (P < 0.01). Marked alterations in plasma glucose and insulin concentrations induced by glucose and tolbutamide injection did not cause any change in plasma leptin levels. These results demonstrate that insulin resistance is associated with elevated plasma leptin levels independent of body fat mass. However, plasma insulin itself does not acutely regulate leptin production.
