Analysis of the inhibition of mammalian thioredoxin, thioredoxin reductase, and glutaredoxin by cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) and its major metabolite, the glutathione-platinum complex.	Several studies have demonstrated a correlation between cellular toxicity of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (cisplatin, CDDP) and inhibited intracellular activity of the thioredoxin system, i.e., thioredoxin (Trx), thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), and NADPH. Conversely, increased cellular activity of the Trx system confers resistance to CDDP. In this study, we have analyzed the interaction of CDDP with Trx and TrxR in order to clarify the mechanism. The inhibition with time-dependent kinetics by CDDP of NADPH-reduced (but not oxidized) TrxR was irreversible, strongly suggesting covalent modification of the reduced selenocysteine-containing active site. Assuming second order kinetics, the rate constant of TrxR inhibition by CDDP was 21 +/- 3 M(-1) x s(-1). Transplatin was found to be an even more efficient inhibitor, with a second order rate constant of 84 +/- 22 M(-1) x s(-1), whereas carboplatin (up to 1 mM) gave no inhibition of the enzyme under the same conditions. Escherichia coli Trx or human or bacterial glutaredoxin (Grx) activities were in comparison only slightly or not at all inhibited by either CDDP, transplatin, or carboplatin. However, glutaredoxins were found to be inhibited by the purified glutathione adduct of cisplatin, bis-(glutathionato)platinum(II) (GS-Platinum complex, GS-Pt), with an IC50 = 350 microM in the standard beta-hydroxyethyl disulfide-coupled assay for human Grx. Also the mammalian Trx system was inhibited by GS-Pt with similar efficiency (IC(50) = 325 microM), whereas neither the E. coli Trx system nor glutathione reductase were inhibited. Formation of GS-Pt is a major route for cellular elimination of CDDP. The fact that GS-Pt inhibits the mammalian Trx as well as Grx systems shows that CDDP may exert effects at several stages of its metabolism, including after conjugation with GSH, which are intimately linked with the cellular disulfide/dithiol redox regulatory systems.
Conditional expression of 15-lipoxygenase-1 inhibits the selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase: modulation of selenoproteins by lipoxygenase enzymes.	The selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase regulates redox-sensitive proteins involved in inflammation and carcinogenesis, including ribonucleotide reductase, p53, NFkappaB, and others. Little is known about endogenous cellular factors that modulate thioredoxin reductase activity. Here we report that several metabolites of 15-lipoxygenase-1 inhibit purified thioredoxin reductase in vitro. 15(S)-Hydroperoxy-5,8,11-cis-13-trans-eicosatetraenoic acid, a metastable hydroperoxide generated by 15-lipoxygenase-1, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, its non-enzymatic rearrangement product inhibit thioredoxin reductase with IC(50) = 13 +/- 1.5 microm and 1 +/- 0.2 microm, respectively. Endogenously generated metabolites of 15-lipoxygenase-1 also inhibit thioredoxin reductase in HEK-293 cells that harbor a 15-LOX-1 gene under the control of an inducible promoter complex. Conditional, highly selective induction of 15-lipoxygenase-1 caused an inhibition of ribonucleotide reductase activity, cell cycle arrest in G(1), impairment of anchorage-independent growth, and accumulation of the pro-apoptotic protein BAX. All of these responses are consistent with inhibition of thioredoxin reductase via 15-lipoxygenase-1 overexpression. In contrast, metabolites of 5-lipoxygenase were poor inhibitors of isolated thioredoxin reductase, and the overexpression of 5-lipoxygenase did not inhibit thioredoxin reductase or cause a G cell cycle arrest. The influences of 15-lipoxygenase-1 on (1)inflammation, cell growth, and survival may be attributable, in part, to inhibition of thioredoxin reductase and several redox-sensitive processes subordinate to thioredoxin reductase.
Induction of thioredoxin reductase as an adaptive response to acrolein in human umbilical vein endothelial cells.	Acrolein is a highly electrophilic alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde to which humans are exposed in a variety of environment situations and is also a product of lipid peroxidation. Increased unsaturated aldehyde levels and reduced antioxidant status play an important role in the pathogenesis of a number of human diseases such as Alzheimer's, atherosclerosis, and diabetes. Mammalian thioredoxin reductase (TR), a central antioxidant enzyme, is a selenoprotein that catalyzes the reduction of oxidized thioredoxin. The findings reported here show that low concentrations of acrolein rapidly inactivate TR, both in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that acrolein may directly inactivate TR, resulting in an increase in oxidative cellular damage. In addition, we also found that the initial inactivation of TR molecules by acrolein triggers a compensatory signal for inducing TR gene expression in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). The results of the present study suggest that HUVEC may have a protective system against cell damage by acrolein via the upregulation of TR, which is an adaptive response to oxidative stress.
Mechanism-based inhibition of thioredoxin reductase by antitumor quinoid compounds.	Quinoids undergo metabolism by a number of flavoenzymes. Reactive species formed during the metabolism of some quinoids might be anticipated to inhibit flavoenzyme activity. Several quinoids have been tested for their ability to inhibit rat liver thioredoxin reductase (TR). The antitumor quinones diaziquone and doxorubicin, and the quinoneimine 2,6-dichloroindophenol, were found to be inhibitors of the reduction of 5,5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) by TR. The inhibition was most marked after incubation of the quinoid with NADPH and the enzyme for 60 min before adding DTNB, with Ki values of 0.5 microM for diaziquone, 0.5 microM for doxorubicin, and 0.07 microM for 2,6-dichloroindophenol. The three quinoids all produced a time-dependent and first order loss of TR activity. There was formation of electron spin resonance-detectable semiquinoid free radicals upon incubation of diaziquone, doxorubicin and 2,6-dichloroindophenol with TR and NADPH under anaerobic conditions. Oxygen radicals formed by redox cycling of the quinoids did not make a major contribution to the inhibition of TR by the quinoids, as shown by the absence of significant reversal of the inhibition by anaerobic incubation conditions and the lack of effect of the oxygen radical scavengers dimethyl sulfoxide, superoxide dismutase and catalase. It was not possible to demonstrate NADPH-dependent covalent binding of radiolabeled diaziquone or doxorubicin to the TR apoprotein. It is possible that the quinoids bind noncovalently to the enzyme apoprotein, or bind to the FAD prosthetic group. The results of the study suggest that some antitumor quinoids are mechanism-based inhibitors of TR showing metabolism- and time-dependent irreversible inhibition of enzyme activity.
Inhibition of cellular thioredoxin reductase by diaziquone and doxorubicin. Relationship to the inhibition of cell proliferation and decreased ribonucleotide reductase activity.	The flavoenzyme thioredoxin reductase (TR) is an important enzyme for many aspects of cellular function. The antitumor quinones diaziquone and doxorubicin have been shown to produce a time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of TR when incubated for up to 24 hr with intact A204 human rhabdomyosarcoma cells. There was a positive correlation between the inhibition of TR and the inhibition of cell colony formation measured 7 days later for diaziquone (r = 0.84, P less than 0.01), and for doxorubicin (r = 0.87, P less than 0.01). 2,6-Dichloroindophenol, which in previous studies was shown to be a good inhibitor of TR in vitro, was a poor inhibitor of TR in intact A204 cells and there was no significant correlation with inhibition of colony formation. The activity of ribonucleotide reductase, which catalyzes the first unique step of DNA synthesis and which obtains its reducing equivalents from TR through thioredoxin, was decreased in diaziquone- and doxorubicin treated A204 cells. We suggest that the inhibition of TR by some antitumor quinones leading to a decreased activity of TR and, consequently, a decreased activity of thioredoxin-dependent enzymes including ribonucleotide reductase may contribute to the growth inhibitory activity of these quinones.
Effects of intermittent hypoxia on oxidative stress-induced myocardial damage in mice.	Obstructive sleep apnea is associated with increased risk for cardiovascular diseases. As obstructive sleep apnea is characterized by episodic cycles of hypoxia and normoxia during sleep, we investigated effects of intermittent hypoxia (IH) on ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial injury. C57BL/6 mice were subjected to IH (2 min 6% O(2) and 2 min 21% O(2)) for 8 h/day for 1, 2, or 4 wk; isolated hearts were then subjected to ischemia-reperfusion. IH for 1 or 2 wk significantly enhanced ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial injury. However, enhanced cardiac damage was not seen in mice treated with 4 wk of IH, suggesting that the heart has adapted to chronic IH. Ischemia-reperfusion-induced lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation were enhanced with 2 wk of IH, while, with 4 wk, oxidative stress was normalized to levels in animals without IH. H(2)O(2) scavenging activity in adapted hearts was higher after ischemia-reperfusion, suggesting the increased antioxidant capacity. This might be due to the involvement of thioredoxin, as the expression level of this protein was increased, while levels of other antioxidant enzymes were unchanged. In the heart from mice treated with 2 wk of IH, ischemia-reperfusion was found to decrease thioredoxin. Ischemia-reperfusion injury can also be enhanced when thioredoxin reductase was inhibited in control hearts. These results demonstrate that IH changes the susceptibility of the heart to oxidative stress in part via alteration of thioredoxin.
The thioredoxin system mediates redox-induced cell death in human colon cancer cells: implications for the mechanism of action of anticancer agents.	Anticancer agents act, at least in part, by inducing reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS). We examined the redox effect on SW480 and HT-29 colon cancer cells of four anticancer compounds, arsenic trioxide, phosphoaspirin, phosphosulindac, and nitric oxide-donating aspirin (NO-ASA). All compounds inhibited the growth of both cell lines (IC(50), 10-90 micromol/L) and induced RONS detected by a general RONS molecular probe. NO-ASA, which induced at least four individual RONS (NO, H(2)O(2), superoxide anion, and peroxynitirte), induced apoptotic and necrotic cell death that was RONS-mediated (cell death paralleled RONS levels and was abrogated by N-acetyl cysteine but not by diphenylene iodonium, which displayed prooxidant activity and enhanced cell death). Nuclear factor-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinases were modulated by RONS. Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1), an oxidoreductase involved in redox regulation, was heavily oxidized in response to RONS and mediated the growth inhibitory effect of the anticancer agents; knocking-down trx-1 expression by small interfering RNA abrogated cell death induced by them. These compounds also inhibited the activity of Trx reductase that reduces oxidized Trx-1, whereas the Trx reductase inhibitor aurothiomalate synergized with NO-ASA in the induction of cell death. Our findings indicate that the Trx system mediates to a large extent redox-induced cell death in response to anticancer agents. This mechanism of action may be shared by more anticancer agents and deserves further assessment as a candidate mechanism for the pharmacologic control of cancer.
2-Tellurium-bridged β-cyclodextrin, a thioredoxin reductase inhibitor, sensitizes human breast cancer cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis through DR5 induction and NF-κB suppression.	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) exhibits potent antitumor activity via membrane receptors on cancer cells without deleterious side effects for normal tissue. Unfortunately, breast cancer cells, as many other cancer types, develop resistance to TRAIL; therefore, TRAIL sensitizing agents are currently being explored. 2-Tellurium-bridged β-cyclodextrin (2-TeCD) is a synthetic organotellurium compound, with both glutathione peroxidase-like catalytic ability and thioredoxin reductase inhibitor activity. In the present study, we reported that 2-TeCD sensitized TRAIL-resistant human breast cancer cells and xenograft tumors to undergo apoptosis. In vitro, 2-TeCD efficiently sensitized MDA-MB-468 and T47D cells, but not untransformed human mammary epithelial cells, to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis, as evidenced by enhanced caspase activity and poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase cleavage. From a mechanistic standpoint, we showed that 2-TeCD treatment of breast cancer cells significantly upregulated the messenger RNA and protein levels of TRAIL receptor, death receptor (DR) 5, in a transcription factor Sp1-dependent manner. 2-TeCD treatment also suppressed TRAIL-induced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) prosurvival pathways by preventing cytosolic IκBα degradation, as well as p65 nuclear translocation. Consequently, the combined administration suppressed anti-apoptotic molecules that are transcriptionally regulated by NF-κB. In vivo, 2-TeCD and TRAIL were well tolerated in mice and their combination significantly inhibited growth of MDA-MB-468 xenografts and promoted apoptosis. Upregulation of DR5 and downregulation of NF-κB by the dual treatment were also observed in tumor tissues. Overall, 2-TeCD sensitizes resistant breast cancer cells to TRAIL-based apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. These findings provide strong evidence for the therapeutic potential of this combination against breast cancers.
Selenium-containing thioredoxin reductase inhibitor ethaselen sensitizes non-small cell lung cancer to radiotherapy.	It has been proposed that thioredoxin reductase (TR) is a mediator that allows non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to develop resistance to irradiation; however, little is known regarding the detailed mechanisms of action. Thus, ethaselen {1, 2-[bis (1,2-benzisoselenazolone-3 (2H)-ketone)] ethane, BBSKE}, a novel organoselenium TR inhibitor, is currently being investigated in a phase I clinical trial in China. However, its radiosensitizing effect remains unexplored. In this study, we found that the activity of TR increased dramatically in both A549 and H1299 cells after radiation, and moreover, could be inhibited by pretreatment with BBSKE (5 μmol/l). As a TR inhibitor, BBSKE enhanced the efficacy of radiation therapy both in vivo and in vitro without observable toxicity. BBSKE was found to suppress irradiation-induced NF-κB activation dramatically when using A549 cells stably transfected with NF-κB luciferase reporter. These results show the critical role of TR in the radioresistance of NSCLC and suggest that BBSKE is a potentially promising agent for the treatment of patients with NSCLC clinically.
Effects of redox modulation by inhibition of thioredoxin reductase on radiosensitivity and gene expression.	The thioredoxin system is a promising target when aiming to overcome the problem of clinical radiation resistance. Altered cellular redox status and redox sensitive thiols contributing to induction of resistance strongly connect the ubiquitous redox enzyme thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) to the cellular response to ionizing radiation. To further investigate possible strategies in combating clinical radiation resistance, human radio-resistant lung cancer cells were subjected to a combination of single fractions of γ-radiation at clinically relevant doses and non-toxic levels of a well-characterized thioredoxin reductase inhibitor, the phosphine gold(I) compound [Au(SCN)(PEt(3))]. The combination of the TrxR-inhibitor and ionizing radiation reduced the surviving fractions and impaired the ability of the U1810 cells to repopulate by approximately 50%. In addition, inhibition of thioredoxin reductase caused changes in the cell cycle distribution, suggesting a disturbance of the mitotic process. Global gene expression analysis also revealed clustered genetic expression changes connected to several major cellular pathways such as cell cycle, cellular response to stress and DNA damage. Specific TrxR-inhibition as a factor behind the achieved results was confirmed by correlation of gene expression patterns between gold and siRNA treatment. These results clearly demonstrate TrxR as an important factor conferring resistance to irradiation and the use of [Au(SCN)(PEt(3))] as a promising radiosensitizing agent.
Inhibition of thioredoxin reductase by a novel series of bis-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-ones: Organoselenium compounds for cancer therapy.	Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is critical for cellular redox regulation and is involved in tumor proliferation, apoptosis and metastasis. Its C-terminal redox-active center contains a cysteine (Cys497) and a unique selenocysteine (Sec498), which are exposed to solvent and easily accessible. Thus, it is becoming an important target for anticancer drugs. Selective inhibition of TrxR by 1,2-(bis-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one)ethane (4a) prevents proliferation of several cancer cell lines both in vivo and in vitro. Using the structure of 4a as a starting point, a series of novel bis-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-ones was designed, prepared and tested to explore the structure-activity relationships (SARs) for this class of inhibitor and to improve their potency. Notably, 1,2-(5,5'-dimethoxybis(1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one))ethane (12) was found to be more potent than 4a in both in vitro and in vivo evaluation. Its binding sites were confirmed by biotin-conjugated iodoacetamide assay and a SAR model was generated to guide further structural modification.
Inhibition of glutathione synthesis eliminates the adaptive response of ascitic hepatoma 22 cells to nedaplatin that targets thioredoxin reductase.	Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is a target for cancer therapy and the anticancer mechanism of cisplatin involves TrxR inhibition. We hypothesize that the anticancer drug nedaplatin (NDP), an analogue of cisplatin and a second-generation platinum complex, also targets TrxR. Furthermore, we investigate whether the therapeutic efficacy of NDP can be enhanced by simultaneous modulation of 1) TrxR, via NDP, and 2) glutathione (GSH), via the GSH synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). Mice bearing ascitic hepatoma 22 (H22) cells were treated with NDP alone or NDP plus BSO. TrxR activity of H22 cells was inhibited by NDP in a dose-dependent manner. A high correlation between the inhibition of TrxR activity at 6h and the inhibition of ascitic fluid volume at 72h was established (r=0.978, p<0.01). As an adaptive response, the viable ascitic cancer cells after NDP treatment displayed an enlarged cell phenotype, assembled with several-fold more antioxidant enzymes and GSH-predominant non-protein free thiols. This adaptive response was largely eliminated when BSO was co-administered with NDP, leading to the decimation of the H22 cell population without enhancing renal toxicity, since at this dose, NDP did not inhibit renal TrxR activity. In conclusion, the pharmacological effect of NDP involves TrxR inhibition, and the adaptive response of NDP-treated ascitic H22 cells can be efficiently counteracted by BSO. Simultaneous modulation of TrxR and GSH on ascitic H22 cells using NDP plus BSO greatly enhances therapeutic efficacy as compared with the single modulation of TrxR using NDP alone.
Carbon monoxide inhibition of Cav3.2 T-type Ca2+ channels reveals tonic modulation by thioredoxin.	T-type Ca(2+) channels play diverse roles in tissues such as sensory neurons, vascular smooth muscle, and cancers, where increased expression of the cytoprotective enzyme, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is often found. Here, we report regulation of T-type Ca(2+) channels by carbon monoxide (CO) a HO-1 by-product. CO (applied as CORM-2) caused a concentration-dependent, poorly reversible inhibition of all T-type channel isoforms (Cav3.1-3.3, IC50 ∼3 μM) expressed in HEK293 cells, and native T-type channels in NG108-15 cells and primary rat sensory neurons. No recognized CO-sensitive signaling pathway could account for the CO inhibition of Cav3.2. Instead, CO sensitivity was mediated by an extracellular redox-sensitive site, which was also highly sensitive to thioredoxin (Trx). Trx depletion (using auranofin, 2-5 μM) reduced Cav3.2 currents and their CO sensitivity by >50% but increased sensitivity to dithiothreitol ∼3-fold. By contrast, Cav3.1 and Cav3.3 channels, and their sensitivity to CO, were unaffected in identical experiments. Our data propose a novel signaling pathway in which Trx acts as a tonic, endogenous regulator of Cav3.2 channels, while HO-1-derived CO disrupts this regulation, causing channel inhibition. CO modulation of T-type channels has widespread implications for diverse physiological and pathophysiological mechanisms, such as excitability, contractility, and proliferation.
Selective targeting of the cysteine proteome by thioredoxin and glutathione redox systems.	Thioredoxin (Trx) and GSH are the major thiol antioxidants protecting cells from oxidative stress-induced cytotoxicity. Redox states of Trx and GSH have been used as indicators of oxidative stress. Accumulating studies suggest that Trx and GSH redox systems regulate cell signaling and metabolic pathways differently and independently during diverse stressful conditions. In the current study, we used a mass spectrometry-based redox proteomics approach to test responses of the cysteine (Cys) proteome to selective disruption of the Trx- and GSH-dependent systems. Auranofin (ARF) was used to inhibit Trx reductase without detectable oxidation of the GSH/GSSG couple, and buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) was used to deplete GSH without detectable oxidation of Trx1. Results for 606 Cys-containing peptides (peptidyl Cys) showed that 36% were oxidized more than 1.3-fold by ARF, whereas BSO-induced oxidation of peptidyl Cys was only 10%. Mean fold oxidation of these peptides was also higher by ARF than BSO treatment. Analysis of potential functional pathways showed that ARF oxidized peptides associated with glycolysis, cytoskeleton remodeling, translation and cell adhesion. Of 60 peptidyl Cys oxidized due to depletion of GSH, 41 were also oxidized by ARF and included proteins of translation and cell adhesion but not glycolysis or cytoskeletal remodeling. Studies to test functional correlates showed that pyruvate kinase activity and lactate levels were decreased with ARF but not BSO, confirming the effects on glycolysis-associated proteins are sensitive to oxidation by ARF. These data show that the Trx system regulates a broader range of proteins than the GSH system, support distinct function of Trx and GSH in cellular redox control, and show for the first time in mammalian cells selective targeting peptidyl Cys and biological pathways due to deficient function of the Trx system. 
Determination of antiplasmodial activity and binding affinity of curcumin and demethoxycurcumin towards PfTrxR.	In our study, the inhibitory activity of curcuminoids towards Plasmodium falciparum thioredoxin reductase (PfTrxR) was determined using LC-MS-based functional assay and showed that only demethoxycurcumin (DMC) inhibited PfTrxR (IC50: 2 μM). In silico molecular modelling was used to ascertain and further confirm that the binding affinities of curcumin and DMC are towards the dimer interface of PfTrxR. The in vitro antiplasmodial activities of curcumin and DMC were evaluated and shown to be active against chloroquine (CQ)-sensitive (D6 clone) and moderately active against CQ-resistant (W2 clone) strains of Plasmodium falciparum while no cytotoxicity was observed against Vero cells.
Anthralin inhibits elevated levels of thioredoxin reductase in psoriasis. A new mode of action for this drug.	Membrane-associated thioredoxin reductase (TR) activity has been measured in 3-mm punch biopsy specimens from psoriatic and uninvolved skin in eight patients with chronic plaque-type psoriasis vulgaris. The mean specific activity for this free radical reducing enzyme in psoriatic vs uninvolved skin was 28.5 +/- 8.0 U vs 16.8 +/- 4.25 U. Because TR contains two reactive thiolate groups at its active site, this enzyme reacts with anthralin to form a covalent anthralin-TR complex causing irreversible enzyme deactivation. This mode of action for anthralin was confirmed by using pure TR from Escherichia coli. Keratinocyte cell cultures, grown from normal and psoriatic skin of one donor, revealed 24% and 42% inhibition of cell surface TR activity, respectively, in the presence of 2 X 10(-5)M anthralin. Time-dependent topical application of anthralin on guinea pig skin gave 70% inhibition of TR with concentrations of 0.25% to 1.0% after 24 hours in open and occlusive applications of the drug. Short contact with 1% anthralin showed 70% inhibition after 120 minutes.
Site-directed mutagenesis of active site cysteines in human thioredoxin produces competitive inhibitors of human thioredoxin reductase and elimination of mitogenic properties of thioredoxin.	Thioredoxin and thioredoxin reductase comprise a redox system ubiquitous in all organisms. To better understand the thiol chemistry of the mammalian thioredoxin-thioredoxin reductase redox system, mutants of human thioredoxin were produced by site-directed mutagenesis in which the two active site cysteines were replaced by serine residues, individually (C32S and C35S) and in combination (C32S/C35S). C35S and C32S/C35S were found to be competitive inhibitors of the reduction of human thioredoxin by human thioredoxin reductase with Ki values of 1.8 and 6.7 microM, respectively. C32S did not inhibit thioredoxin reductase, apparently due to aggregation of the oxidized C32S species. Examination of the three mutant forms of thioredoxin by circular dichroism spectroscopy indicated that there were significant differences in the secondary structures when compared with thioredoxin. There were detectable changes in the circular dichroism spectra when thioredoxin, C35S, and C32S/C35S were bound to thioredoxin reductase, whereas C32S with thioredoxin reductase underwent only a small spectral change. Recombinant human thioredoxin stimulated DNA synthesis and the proliferation of murine fibroblasts. The ability of thioredoxin to stimulate cell proliferation could not be duplicated by either dithiothreitol or glutathione. C32S, C35S, and C32S/C35S failed to stimulate cell proliferation, showing that the redox active form of thioredoxin is necessary for eliciting growth stimulation.
