Oxidation of beta2-glycoprotein I (beta2GPI) by the hydroxyl radical alters phospholipid binding and modulates recognition by anti-beta2GPI autoantibodies.	We investigated whether beta2-glycoprotein I (beta2GPI), the key antigen in the antiphospholipid syndrome, is susceptible to oxidative modifications by the hydroxyl radical (*OH) that may influence its lipid-binding and antigenic properties. The effects on human and bovine beta2GPI of *OH free radicals generated by gamma-radiolysis of water with 137Cs were studied. Radiolytic *OH caused a dose-dependent loss of tryptophan, production of dityrosine and carbonyl groups. dimerization and/or extensive aggregation of beta2GPI. It ensued a reduction in affinity binding to cardiolipin liposomes and loss of beta2GPI-dependent autoantibody binding to immobilized cardiolipin. Patient anti-beta2GPI antibodies (n = 20) segregated into two groups based on the effect in the beta2GPI-ELISA of beta2GPI pretreatment with *OH: enhancement (group A, n = 10) or suppression (group B, n = 10) of IgG binding. The avidities of group A antibodies for fluid-phase beta2GPI were low but increased in a dose-dependent manner upon beta2GPI irradiation, in relation to protein crosslinking. Distinguishing features of group B antibodies included higher avidities for fluid-phase beta2GPI that was no longer recognized after *OH treatment, and negative anticardiolipin tests suggesting epitope location near the phospholipid binding site. The *OH scavengers thiourea and mannitol efficiently protected against all above changes. Therefore, oxidative modifications of beta2GPI via *OH attack of susceptible amino acids alter phospholipid binding, and modulate recognition by autoantibodies depending on their epitope specificities. These findings may be of clinical relevance for the generation and/or reactivity of anti-beta2GPI antibodies.
Ultraviolet-B-induced oxidative DNA base damage in primary normal human epidermal keratinocytes and inhibition by a hydroxyl radical scavenger.	To evaluate the effects of ultraviolet-induced environmental trauma on human skin cells, primary normal human epidermal keratinocytes were exposed to ultraviolet-B radiation (290-320 nm). We found that relatively low doses of ultraviolet-B (62.5-500 mJ per cm2) caused dose-dependent increases in 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxo-dG), a biomarker of oxidative DNA damage. Unirradiated normal human epidermal keratinocytes contained 1.49 (+/- 0.11) 8-oxo-dG per 10(6) 2'-deoxyguanosine (dG) residues in cellular DNA, which increased linearly to as high as 6.24 (+/- 0.85) 8-oxo-dG per 10(6) dG after irradiation with 500 mJ per cm2. Further, this oxidative damage was reduced by 60.7% when the cells were pretreated with 1 mM mannitol. As hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is known to be generated during oxidative stress, its accumulation in ultraviolet-B-irradiated normal human epidermal keratinocytes was also assessed and correlated to 8-oxo-dG formation. An ultraviolet-B-induced increase in H2O2 was observed in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and its production was inhibited by the addition of catalase. Based on the ability of a neutral molecule like H2O2 to permeate membranes, our data indicate that, after ultraviolet-B irradiation, H2O2 migrates from the cytosol to the nucleus where it participates in a Fenton-like reaction that results in the production of hydroxyl radicals (OH*), which may then cause 8-oxo-dG formation in cellular DNA. This conclusion is supported by our data showing that OH* scavengers, such as mannitol, are effective inhibitors of oxidative DNA base damage. Although increased levels of 8-oxo-dG were previously found in immortalized mouse keratinocytes exposed to ultraviolet-B radiation, we now report the induction of 8-oxo-dG in normal human skin keratinocytes at ultraviolet-B doses relevant to human skin exposure.
Effect of manganese(ous) and sulfate on activity of human placental glucose 6-phosphate-dependent form of glycogen synthase.	The human placental glucose-6-P-dependent form of glycogen synthase, in the absence of glucose-6-P, can be activated by MnSO4. Separately, Mn2+ and SO4(2-) have no significant effect. In the presence of glucose-6-P, Mn2+ activates the enzyme, but SO4(2-) inhibits; MnSO4 synergetically increases the enzyme activity. Mn2+ reduces the Ka for glucose-6-P to one-tenth of the control value; SO4(2-) increases the Ka 5-fold; however, MnSO4 has no effect on Ka. MnSO4, like glucose-6-P, increases the Vmax of the enzyme in the presence of its substrate, UDP-glucose; it slightly increases the Km for UDP-glucose. In the presence of glucose-6-P, Mn2+ increases and SO4(2-) decreases the Vmax of the enzyme, but neither has an effect on the Km for UDP-glucose. At physiological concentrations of UDP-glucose and glucose-6-P, either Mn2+ or MnSO4 at concentrations less than 1 mM increases the enzyme activity as much as 8 mM glucose-6-P does. At physiological concentrations of UDP-glucose and glucose-6-P, Mn2+ or MnSO4 reverses the inhibition of the enzyme by ATP.
Histamine N-methyltransferase controls the contractile response of guinea pig trachea to histamine.	The contractile response of isolated guinea pig trachea to histamine was potentiated in the presence of the histamine N-methyltransferase (HMT) inhibitor SKF 91488, whereas the diamine oxidase inhibitor aminoguanidine was without effect. SKF 91488 shifted in a concentration-dependent fashion the concentration-response curves to histamine to lower concentrations with the maximum by 1 log unit. The trachea contained significant HMT activity (45.4 +/- 5.0 pmol/min/mg protein). In situ hybridization to detect HMT mRNA indicated that HMT mRNA was present in the epithelium and endothelium, being more abundant in the former. Removal of the epithelium shifted the concentration-response curves to histamine to lower concentrations by 0.8 log unit, and SKF 91488 caused only a slight shift of histamine concentration-response curves in tissues denuded of epithelium. These findings suggest that HMT regulates the contractile response of guinea pig trachea to histamine, and epithelial removal-induced bronchial hyperresponsiveness to histamine is largely explained by the loss of HMT in the epithelium.
Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis study of Mycobacterium abscessus isolates previously affected by DNA degradation.	DNA degradation (which results in a smear pattern) occurs with almost 50% of Mycobacterium abscessus strains during pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). We assessed the potential benefit of using thiourea-containing buffer with M. abscessus by studying 69 isolates not previously typeable by PFGE (i.e., those with a smear pattern). Random (epidemiologically unrelated) isolates that were typeable (no smear pattern) were included as controls. Genomic DNA was digested with DraI, XbaI, and AseI. PFGE gels were run in regular gel buffer with and without 100 muM thiourea. All 69 isolates that generated smear patterns had clear band profiles when the thiourea buffer was used. These isolates were divided into only 30 patterns with DraI, 20 patterns with XbaI, and 20 patterns with AseI. The molecular profiles were all closely or possibly related, and the differences between the isolates ranged from zero to six bands. By multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MEE), 45 of 53 smear isolates (85%) belonged to two closely related electrophoretic types. These isolates contained at least one enzyme allele seen almost exclusively in this group. Isolates without smear patterns were unaffected by thiourea and produced unrelated PFGE profiles, as well as multiple MEE types. The hsp65 and 16S rRNA gene sequences of the isolates with smear patterns were identical to those of M. abscessus type strain ATCC 19977, which had a nonsmear pattern, suggesting that this clone is a subgroup within M. abscessus. This demonstrates that the inability to type M. abscessus by PFGE is associated with a single clone of organisms.
Improvement of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis proteome maps of the haloarchaeon Haloferax volcanii.	Proteins of haloarchaea are remarkably unstable in low-ionic-strength solvents and tend to aggregate under standard two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis conditions, causing strong horizontal streaking. We have developed a new approach to generate 2-D maps of halophilic proteins which included washing cells with 1.5 M Tris-HCl buffer. In addition, proteins were precipitated with acetone, solubilized with urea and thiourea in the presence of the sulfobetaine detergent 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylamino]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS), reduced with tributylphosphine (TBP), and separated with microrange strips of immobilized pH gradients (pH 3.9-5.1). This combination enabled the construction of highly reproducible 2-D maps of Haloferax volcanii proteins.
Polyphenols: factors influencing their sensory properties and their effects on food and beverage preferences.	Bitterness and astringency are found in a variety of foods, including nuts, fruits, chocolate, tea, wine, and soymilk. In fruits and beverages, the taste of bitterness and the tactile sensation of astringency are elicited primarily by flavanol polymers (proanthocyanidins or condensed tannins). Variations in proanthocyanidin composition, such as polymer size, extent of galloylation, and formation of derivatives, affect both bitterness and astringency. In beverages, other factors also influence these sensations, including the pH and the levels of ethanol, sweetness, and viscosity. Similarly, foods eaten with beverages can influence astringency. For example, eating dark chocolate increases the astringency of red wine more than does milk chocolate. Individuals perceive astringency differently because of variations in salivary flow rates, and preferences for and acceptance of a product may vary tremendously among individuals; decreasing bitterness and/or astringency may not increase preference. Factors influencing bitterness, astringency, and individual preference decisions are discussed.
Protein-DNA interactions at a yeast replication origin.	An understanding of the protein-DNA interactions in vivo at origins of DNA replication in eukaryotes is essential to delineate the mechanism of initiation of DNA synthesis and its control in the cell cycle. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a family of sequences known as autonomously replicating sequences (ARSs) function as origins of bidirectional DNA replication on plasmids and, in several instances, also in their normal chromosomal location. Here we use nucleotide resolution genomic footprinting to investigate the association of proteins with ARS1. Nuclease protection patterns indicate that at least two different cellular factors interact with functional elements in ARS1. The first seems to be ARS-binding factor 1. The second seems to be a novel protein that generates extensive protection over the essential ARS consensus sequence and phased DNaseI-sensitive sites across a functionally important flanking sequence. Hypersensitivity of this region to cleavage by copper phenanthroline indicates that it is under torsional strain, analogous to that produced at transcriptional start sites by assembly of an initiation complex. The protection in situ is similar to that generated by the origin recognition complex (ORC) protein.
Endocrine control of Anguilla anguilla glass eel dispersal: effect of thyroid hormones on locomotor activity and rheotactic behavior.	Dispersal, one of the most important processes in population ecology, is an issue linking physiological and behavioral features. However, the endocrine control of animal dispersal remains poorly understood. Here, we tested whether and how thyroid hormones may influence dispersal in glass eels of Anguilla anguilla, by testing their influence on locomotor activity and rheotactic behavior. Glass eels were caught during their estuarine migration and treated by immersion in either a l-thyroxine (T(4)) or a thiourea (TU) solution. As measured by radioimmunoassay, T(4) and TU treatments induced, respectively, increased and decreased whole-body thyroid hormone levels relative to untreated controls. We tested a total of 960 glass eels distributed into control, and T(4) and TU treatment groups, on their swimming behavior in experimental flume tanks equipped with upstream and downstream traps that allowed us to concurrently measure both the locomotor activity and the rheotactic behavior. Compared to controls, locomotor activity significantly increased among the hyperthyroid, T(4)-treated eels, but significantly decreased among the hypothyroid, TU-treated eels. The results on rheotactic behavior suggested a more complex regulatory mechanism, since TU but not T(4) treatment significantly affected rheotactic behavior. The influence of thyroid hormones on locomotor activity suggests a central role for these hormones in the regulation of mechanisms leading to the colonization of continental habitats by glass eels. Thyroid hormones are also implicated in the control of locomotor activity in mammals and migratory behavior in birds, suggesting that these hormones represent conserved, proximate mediators of dispersal in vertebrates.
Effects of histamine H1-, H2- and H3-receptor selective drugs on the mechanical activity of guinea-pig small and large intestine.	1. In this study we have evaluated the possible contribution of acetylcholine release in histamine-induced contractions of guinea-pig large and small intestinal smooth muscle. Moreover, the presence of the histamine receptor types involved in smooth muscle relaxations and inhibition of electrically-induced twitches was studied by use of several selective agents. 2. Histamine-induced contractions appeared to be a pure H1-receptor-mediated effect. Responses were not attenuated by the presence of 0.1 microM atropine and were competitively and stereoselectively inhibited by the two enantiomers of chlorpheniramine with pA2 values of 6.73 +/- 0.08, 7.30 +/- 0.06, 6.93 +/- 0.03 and 7.19 +/- 0.04 for the L-isomer and 8.63 +/- 0.09, 8.85 +/- 0.09, 9.01 +/- 0.16 and 0.11 for the D-isomer in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon, respectively. 3. There appeared to be a marked regional difference in sensitivity to histamine. In ileal and jejunal preparations pD2 values of 6.24 +/- 0.06 (n = 22) and 6.37 +/- 0.07 (n = 22) were found, whereas the pD2 values in the duodenum and colon were 5.55 +/- 0.05 (n = 36) and 5.68 +/- 0.06 (n = 31) respectively. 4. This regional difference in sensitivity to histamine was not due to variations in receptor affinity since pA2 values for the two enantiomers of chlorpheniramine did not differ markedly among the four tested preparations. Since a similar variation in sensitivity was found for methacholine, it is likely that the signal transfer mechanism in guinea-pig ileum and jejunum is more efficient than in the duodenum and colon. 5. The H2-agonists dimaprit and impromidine relaxed methacholine-precontracted (+/- 70% of maximum contraction) intestine at high concentrations (pD2 values of 3.79 + 0.03 and 4.44 + 0.09 for the jejunum). These relaxations could not be antagonized by 0.1 microM tiotidine, famotidine or mifentidine and were observed in all parts of the intestine investigated. 6. The dimaprit analogues nordimaprit and homodimaprit (inactive at H2-receptors) were equipotent in relaxing the methacholine-precontracted smooth muscle. Since several H2-antagonists were also able to produce relaxations, we do not consider these relaxations to be mediated by a H2-receptor subtype, but to be due to some nonspecific effects at the high concentrations used. 7. The histamine receptor involved in the inhibition of electrically-induced contractions in the presence of atropine could be classified as an H3-receptor effect. In all parts of the intestine the H3-agonist R-alpha-amethylhistamine inhibited the twitches with pD2 values ranging from 8.10 + 0.06 (ileum) to 8.27 + 0.03(colon). This effect was competitively antagonized with the selective H3-antagonist thioperamine (pA2 values are 8.09 + 0.07, 8.13 + 0.05, 8.15 + 0.04 and 8.36 + 0.04 in duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon, respectively. 8. The guinea-pig intestine is a suitable preparation for the evaluation of either H1- or H3-receptor effects. H2-receptors, causing smooth muscle relaxation appear not to be present in our preparations. At high concentrations of H2-receptor agents (agonists and antagonists) relaxations might be observed, due to unknown nonspecific effects.
A p-nitrophenylphosphatase activity associated with the human erythrocyte membrane.	A p-nitrophenylphosphatase activity has been identified as a component of the human erythrocyte membrane. This activity is distinct from that associated with the cell's Na(+)+K(+)-dependent ATPase, Ca(2+)-dependent ATPase, or spectrin phosphatase. The activity described here is stimulated by Mn2+ but not by Ca2+ with or without calmodulin. A potential erythrocyte membrane substrate for this activity is a 95 kDa phosphoprotein that can be shown to undergo Mn(2+)-stimulated but not Mg(2+)-stimulated dephosphorylation.
Influence of urea additives on micellar morphology/protein conformation.	The present study highlights the fact that the effect of additives (urea, monomethylurea, thiourea) on the supramolecular assemblies and proteins is strikingly similar. To investigate the effect, a viscometeric study on sphere-to-rod transition (s-->r) was undertaken in a system (3.5% tetradecyltrimethylammonium bromide+0.05 M NaBr + 1-pentanol [P.M. Lindemuth, G.L. Bertand, J. Phys. Chem. 97 (1993) 7769]) in the presence and absence of the said additives. [1-pentanol] needed for s-->r (i.e. [1-pentanol]s-->r) was determined from the relative viscosity versus [1-pentanol] profiles. It was observed that the additives preponed as well as postponed s-->r depending upon their nature and concentrations. These effects are explained in terms of increased polarity of the medium and the adsorption ability of urea/monomethylurea on the charged surfactant monomers of the micelle. In case of thiourea, postponement of s-->r was observed throughout which is attributed to its structure. To derive an analogy between micelles and proteins the additive-induced conformational changes of the protein, bovine serum albumin (BSA) was taken to monitor secondary structural changes and tryptophanyl fluorescence. A marked increase in secondary structure (far-UVCD) and increased tryptophanyl fluorescence with a marked blue shift in lambdamax was observed in presence of low concentrations of urea or alkylurea. This indicates that a more compact environment is created in presence of these additives, if added judiciously. Addition of thiourea to BSA caused a marked quenching without any significant change in lambdamax. The large decrease in tryptophanyl emission in presence of low thiourea concentrations seems to be specific and related to thiourea structure as no corresponding changes were observed in urea/alkylurea. All these effects pertaining to protein behavior fall in line with that of morphological observations on the present as well as surfactant systems studied earlier [S. Kumar, N. Parveen, Kabir-ud-Din, J. Phys. Chem. B 108 (2004) 9588].
Inhibitory effects of different antioxidants on hyaluronan depolymerization.	Hyaluronan (HA) was depolymerized by hydroxyl radicals generated from hydrogen peroxide and cupric ions. Inhibition of HA degradation by four well-known antioxidants was investigated, as HA can scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS). Change in hyaluronan molecular weight was observed by size-exclusion chromatography. Inhibition of HA degradation was estimated from the retention times observed. It was found that HA degradation was inhibited in a clearly concentration-dependent manner by mannitol, thiourea and vinpocetine. Propofol also inhibited the depolymerization, but its concentration-dependent effect was not so clear. The antioxidant concentrations at which HA degradation was decreased by 50% were 42 microM for thiourea; 1.35 microM for vinpocetine; and 0.39 microM for propofol. A concentration of 26.51 mM of mannitol was needed to attain the same inhibitory effect. Although many factors are involved in a therapeutic response, the results obtained in this study support the idea that HA may be protected from ROS attack by the concomitant use of well-known antioxidants.
Effect of substance P and related neurokinins on gastric acid secretion.	Substance P and a series of related neurokinins having various degrees of selectivity for tachykinin receptors have been studied for their effects on gastric acid secretion both "in vitro" and "in vivo". In the isolated gastric fundus from immature rats, substance P, the C-terminal heptapeptide of neurokinin A, NKA (4-10), [Arg]NKB and two synthetic analogues of NKA (4-10), namely, [beta-Ala8]NKA (4-10) and [Ala5]NKA (4-10) (compounds marked Men 10210 and Men 10209, respectively) had no effect on spontaneous secretion but enhanced the secretory response to histamine. All the different neurokinins were effective in the range of concentrations 10(-7) - 10(-6) M. In the conscious cat with gastric fistula, substance P dose-dependently increased basal acid secretion, whereas Men 10210 was absolutely ineffective. Men 10209 caused a slight increase in acid output which, however, was only 10% of that induced by dimaprit or pentagastrin. The secretory effect of dimaprit and pentagastrin was not affected by the different neurokinins, conversely the response to 2-Deoxy-D-glucose was slightly reduced by Men 10210 (10 nmol/kg/h). The above data suggest that the natural and synthetic neurokinins studied have negligible effects on gastric acid secretion, thus the gastro-protective effect observed in some experimental conditions is unlikely to be related to an antisecretory effect of these compounds.
Blockade of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway ameliorates delayed intestinal transit in burned rats.	Burn injury has been shown to impair intestinal transit. p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) has been shown to be involved in the production of proinflammatory mediators such as interleukin (IL)-1beta, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). The aims of this study were to investigate the effects of SB203580, a specific p38 MAPK inhibitor, on intestinal transit and to elucidate its possible mechanism.
Metabolism of 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) by cytochrome P450IIB1 in a reconstituted system.	Several previous studies have suggested that cytochrome P450IIB1 is involved in the bioactivation of the tobacco-specific carcinogen, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), in rats as well as in mouse lung microsomes. The present investigation was undertaken to study the metabolism of NNK by purified cytochrome P450IIB1 in a reconstituted system. The metabolites 4-hydroxy-4-(3-pyridyl) butyric acid (hydroxy acid), 4-oxo-4-(3-pyridyl) butyric acid (keto acid), 4-oxo-4-(3-pyridyl) butanol (keto aldehyde), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl-N-oxide)-1-butanone (NNK-N-oxide) and 4-oxo-4-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (keto alcohol) were quantitated by HPLC. The results showed that, in addition to alpha-hydroxylations, cytochrome P450IIB1 also catalyzed the formation of NNK-N-oxide efficiently, and to a certain extent, the conversion of NNK primary hydroxylation metabolites (keto aldehyde and keto alcohol) to secondary metabolites (keto acid and hydroxy acid). Cytochrome b5 at a ratio of 1:1 or 2:1 to P450IIB1 had no significant effect on the metabolic activities and profiles of NNK. The apparent Km values for the formation of keto aldehyde, NNK-N-oxide and keto alcohol were respectively 191.2, 131.4 and 318.0 microM with corresponding apparent Vmax values of 89.7, 295.5 and 333.3 pmol/min/nmol P450, indicating that hydroxylation at the alpha-methyl position is preferred over the alpha-methylene position. Measurement of formaldehyde, a product derived from the alpha-methyl hydroxylation, was developed as a convenient method to study NNK metabolism. Thiourea activated cytochrome P450IIB1-catalyzed NNK metabolism significantly. Phenethyl isothiocyanate, an inhibitor of NNK-induced lung carcinogenesis, inhibited P450IIB1-catalyzed NNK demethylation in a concentration-dependent manner. This work demonstrates that purified P450IIB1 can catalyze the conversion of NNK to most of its oxidative metabolites.
Ascorbic acid regeneration in chromaffin granules. In situ kinetics.	We have investigated in intact chromaffin secretory vesicles the kinetics, specificity, and mechanism of intragranular ascorbic acid regeneration by extragranular ascorbic acid. The apparent Km of internal ascorbic acid regeneration for external ascorbic acid was 280 microM by Lineweaver-Burk analysis and 287 microM by Eadie-Hofstee analysis. Intragranular ascorbic acid regeneration was specifically mediated by extragranular ascorbic acid or its isomer isoascorbic acid; the reducing agents glutathione, thiourea, homocysteine, NADH, and NADPH did not support regeneration. The structural analog D-glucose did not inhibit regeneration by external ascorbic acid, suggesting specificity at the membrane site of electron transfer. The driving force for regeneration of intragranular ascorbic acid was independent of membrane potential, absolute intragranular and extragranular pH, and ATPase activity, but might be coupled to the pH difference across the chromaffin granule membrane. Since the apparent Km of regeneration was approximately 10-fold below the cytosolic concentration of ascorbic acid, the reaction may proceed at Vmax in situ.
The prooxidant action of dietary antioxidants leading to cellular DNA breakage and anticancer effects: implications for chemotherapeutic action against cancer.	Plant-derived dietary antioxidants have attracted considerable interest in recent past for their ability to induce apoptosis and regression of tumors in animal models. While it is believed that the antioxidant properties of these agents may contribute to lowering the risk of cancer induction by impeding oxidative injury to DNA, it could not account for apoptosis induction and chemotherapeutic observations. In this article, we show that dietary antioxidants can alternatively switch to a prooxidant action in the presence of transition metals such as copper. Such a prooxidant action leads to strand breaks in cellular DNA and growth inhibition in cancer cells. Further, the cellular DNA breakage and anticancer effects were found to be significantly enhanced in the presence of copper ions. Moreover, inhibition of antioxidant-induced DNA strand breaks and oxidative stress by Cu(I)-specific chelators bathocuproine and neocuproine demonstrated the role of endogenous copper in the induction of the prooxidant mechanism. Since it is well established that tissue, cellular, and serum copper levels are considerably elevated in various malignancies, such a prooxidant cytotoxic mechanism better explains the anticancer activity of dietary antioxidants against cancer cells. 
Coprisin-induced antifungal effects in Candida albicans correlate with apoptotic mechanisms.	Coprisin is a 43-mer defensin-like peptide from the dung beetle, Copris tripartitus. Here, we investigated the induction of apoptosis by coprisin in Candida albicans cells. Coprisin exerted antifungal and fungicidal activity without any hemolytic effect. Confocal microscopy indicated that coprisin accumulated in the nucleus of cells. The membrane studies, 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene, calcein-leakage, and giant unilamellar vesicle assays, confirmed that coprisin did not disrupt the fungal plasma membrane at all. Moreover, the activity of coprisin was energy- and salt-dependent. Next, we investigated whether coprisin induced apoptosis in C. albicans. Annexin V-FITC staining and TUNEL assay showed that coprisin was involved with both the early and the late stages of apoptosis. Coprisin also increased the intracellular reactive oxygen species level, and hydroxyl radicals were included at high levels among the species. The effect of thiourea as a hydroxyl radical scavenger further confirmed the existence of the hydroxyl radicals. Furthermore, coprisin induced mitochondrial membrane potential dysfunction, cytochrome c release, and activation of metacaspases. In summary, this study suggests that coprisin could be a model molecule for a large family of novel antimicrobial peptides possessing apoptotic activity.
The goitrogenic efficiency of thioamides in a marine teleost, sea bream (Sparus auratus).	Studies on the role of thyroid hormones (THs) in teleost fish physiology have deployed the synthetic goitrogens, methimazol (MMI), propilthiouracil (PTU) and thiourea (TU) that are used to treat human hyperthyroidism. However, the action of the goitrogens, MMI, PTU and TU at different levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis in teleosts is largely unknown. The central importance of the hypothalamus and pituitary in a number of endocrine regulated systems and the cross-talk that occurs between different endocrine axes makes it pertinent to characterize the effects of MMI, PTU and TU, on several endpoints of the thyroid system. The marine teleost, sea bream (Sparus auratus) was exposed to MMI, PTU and TU (1mg/kg wet weight per day), via the diet for 21days. Radioimmunoassays (RIA) of plasma THs and ELISA of the TH carrier transthyretin (TTR) revealed that MMI was the only chemical that significantly reduced plasma TH levels (p<0.05), although both MMI and PTU significantly (p<0.05) reduced plasma levels of circulating TTR (p<0.05). Histological analysis of the thyroid tissue revealed modifications in thyrocyte activity that explain the reduced circulating levels of THs. MMI also significantly (p<0.05) up-regulated transcript abundance of liver deiodinase 1 and 2 while significantly (p<0.05) decreasing TRβ expression in the pituitary, all hallmarks of HPT axis action of goitrogens in vertebrates. The results indicate that in the sea bream MMI is the most effective goitrogen followed by PTU and that TU (1mg/kg wet weight for 21days) failed to have a goitrogenic effect. The study highlights the non-uniform effect of goitrogens on the thyroid axis of sea bream and provides the basis for future studies of thyroid disrupting pollutants.
Influence of thiourea application on some physiological and molecular criteria of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) plants under conditions of heat stress.	High temperature is a major factor limiting the growth of plant species during summer. Understanding the mechanisms of plant tolerance to high temperature would help in developing effective management practices and heat-tolerant cultivars through breeding or biotechnology. The present investigation was carried out to study the role of thiourea in enhancing the tolerance of sunflower plants to heat stress. Sunflower plants were subjected to temperature stress by exposing plants to 35 or 45 °C for 12 h. Two levels of thiourea (10 and 20 mM) were applied before sowing (seed treatment). The results indicated that the plants exposed to temperature stress exhibited a significant decline in growth parameters, chlorophylls, relative leaf water content, oil content, leaf nutrient status, and nitrate reductase activity. Treatment with thiourea, especially when applied at 10 mM, improved the above parameters and induced non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants responsible for antioxidation. SDS-PAGE of protein revealed that high-temperature treatments alone or in combination with thiourea were associated with the disappearance of some bands or the appearance of unique ones. The result of RAPD analysis using five primers showed variable qualitative and quantitative changes. These findings confirm the effectiveness of applying thiourea on alleviating heat injuries in sunflower plants. 
Deuterium isotope effects as a tool in the study of ethanol oxidation in rat liver microsomes.	The apparent kinetic deuterium isotope effect (I) on the oxidation of ethanol to acetaldehyde by washed rat liver microsomes was measured with (1-R)-[1-2H2, 1-14C]-ethanol (I1) and [1-2H2, 2-14C]-ethanol (I2) as substrates by a competitive technique involving only measurements of radioactivity. The average values were for non-induced rats, I1 = 1.57 and I2 = 2.23. When these two substrates were used with stereospecific enzymes (alcohol dehydrogenase and catalase) a small secondary effect was observed, causing I2 to be about 10% higher than I1. With non-stereospecific systems I2 was much larger than I1, and the values were connected by a simple formula. This relation in combination with use of the inhibitors, sodium azide and thiourea, made it possible to calculate tentatively the contribution to microsomal ethanol oxidation of catalase, a non-identified stereospecific enzyme, and non-stereospecific catalytic systems, as well as the isotope effects of the latter two systems. Measurements were made in microsomes from normal, phenobarbital treated, and acetone treated rats. For the stereospecific component an isotope effect of 1.4-1.5 was calculated for all three groups. For the non-stereospecific enzyme in acetone treated rats a value of 4.0 was found. Both the other groups showed a value about 2.7. The activity of the non-stereospecific system was about twice the normal in barbiturate treated, and 3 times the normal in the acetone treated group, where it contributed 70% of the total activity. The isotope effects on the changes in ethanol oxidation (the 'differential isotope effect') caused by inhibitors and activators were utilized to decide whether inhibitors were specific for a single reaction. Thus azide while inhibiting catalase completely, also inhibited other reactions. The large increase (5-6 times) in rate caused by Fe-ESDTA has an I2 of 1.6, equal to that for oxidation of ethanol by hydroxyl radicals.
Alkaline phosphatase inactivation by mixed function oxidation systems.	Alkaline phosphatase is inactivated by mixed function oxidation systems. OH. radicals, generated via an ascorbate-modified Haber-Weiss cycle or a Fenton-type reaction, seem to be responsible for the protein oxidative damage. Experiments with hydroxyl radical scavengers, enzyme substrates, products, and metal cofactors suggest that a "site-specific" radical attack takes place at or near the active center. Vitamin E fails to protect alkaline phosphatase; uric acid, instead, is particularly effective in shielding the protein against covalent modifications.
Nuclear activation by thyroid hormone in liver of Singi fish: changes in different ion-specific adenosine triphosphatases activities.	Various ion-dependent (Na+K+, Ca++ and Mg++) ATPases activities in liver cell nuclear membrane have been determined after a single injection of different doses (0.01, 0.025, 0.05, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 micrograms/g) of L-triiodothyronine (T3) in Singi fish, Heteropneustes fossilis Bloch. Administration of T3 at a minimum effective dose of 0.05 micrograms upto 4 micrograms/g induced a rise (14 to 43% over control value) in the Na+K+-ATPase activity in a dose-dependent fashion maximum upto 1 microgram/g dose, whereas Ca++-ATPase showed a dose-dependent increase (20 to 43% over control) with 0.25-1 microgram/g of T3, although the increase in the respective enzyme activity was maintained upto 4 micrograms/g of T3 dose. Mg++-ATPase activity in liver cell nuclear membrane was found to be increased at 1 microgram-4 micrograms/g of T3 dose, showing a similar magnitude of increase (7% over the control value) with these doses of T3. Other doses of T3 (0.01 and 0.025 micrograms/g) were ineffective in altering the different ion-specific ATPase activity. Treatment of Singi fish with thiourea (1 mg/ml) for 30 days caused a significant fall in Na+K+, Ca++ and Mg++-ATPase activities upto 21%, 17% and 5%, respectively, below the euthyroid control level. A single injection of T3 at the dose of 1 microgram/g in the hypothyroid fish raised the Na+K+ and Ca++-ATPase activities to about 36% over the control value, and the Mg++-ATPase activity was restored to only the control level. Thus a dose-dependent nuclear effect of T3 is evident from the present investigation.
Famotidine and ranitidine: any difference in the duration of action?	The new H2-receptor antagonist famotidine was studied to test its duration of action in comparison with ranitidine. In the conscious cat provided with gastric fistula famotidine and ranitidine, administered by bolus i.v. injection, by continuous infusion or intragastrically, had an inhibitory effect on dimaprit-induced acid secretion which lasted similarly. The only difference between the two compounds was the higher potency of famotidine. Reversibility studies carried out in the isolated gastric fundus from immature rats showed that famotidine, like ranitidine, was easily washed out even at the highest concentration tested (3 X 10(-6) M) and thus it can be considered a readily dissociable H2 antagonist in this tissue.
Central effects of histamine H2-receptor agonists and antagonists on nociception in the rat.	The effects of intracerebroventricular injection of histamine H2-receptor agonists (4-methylhistamine, 4-MeH; dimaprit, DIM), H2-antagonists (cimetidine, CIM; ranitidine, RAN; famotidine, FAM) and of the DIM chemical analogue SK&F 91487 on hot-plate latency in rats were examined. Both DIM (0.4-0.8 mumol/rat) and 4-MeH (0.4-0.8 mumol/rat) significantly enhanced the pain threshold, whereas SF&F 91487 (0.8 mumol/rat) had no effect, indicating that DIM antinociception is specifically due to its activity on histamine (HA) receptors. The H2-antagonists CIM (0.8 mumol/rat) and RAN (0.6 mumol/rat) also enhanced the pain threshold, while FAM (0.03 mumol/rat) did not modify pain latency. When injected before 4-MeH, FAM reduced the antinociceptive effect of 4-MeH. These findings suggest that the antinociceptive activity of CIM and RAN is not related to specific blockade of H2-receptors and that the activation of HA-H2-receptors is inhibitory to nociception.
Ferrous-salt-promoted damage to deoxyribose and benzoate. The increased effectiveness of hydroxyl-radical scavengers in the presence of EDTA.	Hydroxyl radicals (OH.) in free solution react with scavengers at rates predictable from their known second-order rate constants. However, when OH. radicals are produced in biological systems by metal-ion-dependent Fenton-type reactions scavengers do not always appear to conform to these established rate constants. The detector molecules deoxyribose and benzoate were used to study damage by OH. involving a hydrogen-abstraction reaction and an aromatic hydroxylation. In the presence of EDTA the rate constant for the reaction of scavengers with OH. was generally higher than in the absence of EDTA. This radiomimetic effect of EDTA can be explained by the removal of iron from the detector molecule, where it brings about a site-specific reaction, by EDTA allowing more OH. radicals to escape into free solution to react with added scavengers. The deoxyribose assay, although chemically complex, in the presence of EDTA appears to give a simple and cheap method of obtaining rate constants for OH. reactions that compare well with those obtained by using pulse radiolysis.
Lipid peroxidation of rabbit small intestinal microvillus membrane vesicles by iron complexes.	Fe(II)- and Fe(III)-induced lipid peroxidation of rabbit small intestinal microvillus membrane vesicles was studied. Ferrous ammonium sulphate, ferrous ascorbate at a molar ratio of 10:1, and ferric citrate, at molar ratios of 1:1 and 1:20, did not stimulate lipid peroxidation. Ferrous ascorbate, 1:1, induced low stimulation, while ferrous ascorbate, 1:20 gave higher stimulation of lipid peroxidation. These results show that in our experimental system, ascorbate is a promotor rather than an inhibitor of lipid peroxidation. Ferric nitrilotriacetate (at molar ratios of 1:2 and 1:10), at an iron concentration of 200 microM, was by far the most effective in inducing lipid peroxidation. Superoxide dismutase, mannitol and glutathione had no effect, while catalase, thiourea and vitamin E markedly decreased ferrous ascorbate 1:20-induced lipid peroxidation. Ferric nitrilotriacetate-induced lipid peroxidation was slightly reduced by catalase and mannitol, significantly reduced by superoxide dismutase, and completely inhibited by thiourea. Glutathione caused a 100% increase in the ferric nitrilotriacetate-induced lipid peroxidation. These results suggest that Fe(II) in the presence of trace amounts of Fe(III), or an oxidizing agent and Fe(III) in the presence of Fe(II) or a reducing agent, are potent stimulators of lipid peroxidation of microvillus membrane vesicles. Addition of deferoxamine completely inhibited both ferrous ascorbate, 1:20 and ferric nitrilotriacetate-induced lipid peroxidation, demonstrating the requirement for iron for its stimulation. Iron-induced peroxidation of microvillus membrane may have physiological significance because it could already be demonstrated at 2 microM iron concentration.
Excessive numbers of axons after early enucleation and blockade of metamorphosis in the oculomotor nerve of Xenopus laevis.	The number of axons in the oculomotor (OM) nerve of Xenopus laevis tadpoles was counted in unoperated and in unilaterally enucleated animals, raised in 0.4 g/l thiourea (TU), a thyroid-blocking agent, which arrested their development at premetamorphosis. In unoperated animals the number of axons starts to decrease with metamorphosis. When raised in TU, the tadpoles do not metamorphose and show no axon loss; rather, there is a moderate increase in axon number (13%) after 6 months of thiourea-treatment. Thus metamorphosis is necessary for the initiation of axon loss. In unilaterally enucleated tadpoles, increased axon loss occurs at metamorphosis in the OM nerve of the operated side, but the contralateral OM nerve shows no loss at all. When these animals are treated with TU, there is, as compared with the effects of the TU-treatment in unoperated animals, an increase of 7% in the ipsilateral side and of 28% in the contralateral one. Thus thyroxine blockade prevents the effects of unilateral enucleation and induces an excessive number of axons during the period observed. We postulate that through blockade of metamorphosis, axon elimination is arrested, while their production continues, and that these effects are accentuated by manipulation of the axonal target.
Histamine suppresses in vitro synthesis of precursor (pro-C5) of the fifth complement component (C5) by mouse peritoneal macrophages.	Soluble histamine added to mouse peritoneal macrophages in culture suppressed the synthesis of the functional and antigenic complement component C5. Synthesis of intracellular C5 antigen by resident macrophages was suppressed by 16 to 80%, and functional C5 activity by 13.6 to 87.2% at concentrations of histamine ranging from 10(-6) M to 10(-3) M, respectively; secretion of C5 protein was depressed by 18.3 to 85.5% and hemolytic C5 by 8 to 80%. In thioglycollate-stimulated exudates, intracellular synthesis of C5 protein was reduced by 3.3 to 72.3% and functional C5 activity by 7.6 to 73.5% using similar concentrations of histamine; secreted C5 protein was inhibited by 8.9 to 75.7% and functional activity by 4 to 78%. The suppression of C5 activity in resident and thioglycollate-stimulated cultures was dependent on the dose of histamine with maximal suppression occurring at a concentration of 10(-3) M. Experiments in which specific histamine agonists were used confirmed that the action was mediated by the H2 receptor. The inhibition of C5 antigenic protein synthesis paralleled that detected for functional C5. Immunochemical analysis of C5 antigen synthesized under the influence of histamine indicated that suppression of synthesis of pro-C5 was the major mechanism responsible for the depression of C5 produced under these conditions. The inhibitory effects produced by histamine were shown to be mediated by histamine type 2 receptors as indicated by abrogation of the inhibition by cimetidine (H2 antagonist).
The effect of histamine, H1 and H2 agonists, and H1 and H2 antagonists on postprandial pancreatic polypeptide release in dogs.	The influence of histamine, H1 and H2 agonists (2-AETD and dimaprit), and H1 and H2 antagonists (mepyramine and cimetidine) on the postprandial release of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) was assessed in five Labrador retrievers. Infusions of histamine, 0.25 mumol kg-1 h-1; 2AETD, 4 mumol kg-1 h-1; and dimaprit, 1 mumol kg-1 h-1, enhanced postprandial release (131-189% of control values). The response to 2-AETD and dimaprit was significantly different from control values (p less than 0.05). An increase was observed even when 50 mg mepyramine and 400 mg cimetidine were injected as intravenous boluses (131-139% of control values (p less than 0.05]. The action of the antagonists may be explained by partial agonism or histamine release induced by these agents. It is concluded that postprandial PP release is stimulated by H1 and H2 receptors.
Acute systemic anaphylaxis in adult domestic fowl: evidence for the protective role of H2-histaminergic and beta 2-adrenergic receptors.	Pentobarbital-anesthetized and spontaneously breathing, bovine albumin (BA)-sensitized adult domestic fowl showed acute systemic anaphylaxis to IV injection of antigen (BA), which was characterized by arterial hypotension, central venous hypertension, and bradycardia. Large doses of pyrilamine maleate (/1-receptor antagonist) partially inhibited acute systemic anaphylaxis. On the other hand, metiamide (a specific H2-antagonist) and propranolol (beta-adrenergic antagonist) markedly enhanced the anaphylactic response. Terbutaline (beta 2-agonist), dimaprit (a highly selective H2-agonist), and compound FPL 55712 (a slow-reacting substance of anaphylaxis receptor antagonist) either significantly inhibited or reversed the anaphylactic response. Cimetidine (a newer H2-antagonist) enhanced only central venous pressor response to BA. This investigation appears to suggest a minor role of histamine and a major role of slow-reacting substance of anaphylaxis as chemical mediatiors of anaphylaxis. A protective role of beta 2-adrenergic and H2-histaminergic receptors seem to operate in immediate hypersensitivity reactions in adult domestic fowl.
Gastric and cardiac H-2 receptor effects of dimaprit and N'(Me),5(Me)histamine in conscious dogs.	Two new H-2 agonists 5,N'-dimethyl histamine (DMH), an imidazole analog, and dimaprit, a non-imidazole compound, and histamine (H), a mixed H-1, H-2 agonist, were given to four conscious gastric fistula dogs. Gastric acid was stimulated dose responsively. Dimaprit stimulated a 20% greater maximum output of acid, and more pepsin than the other agents, but inhibited pepsin secretion as doses of greater than 0.63 mumol/kg-h. Heart rate was increased dose responsively by all drugs to approximately 200 beats/min with ED50 of 0.17:0.42:0.80 mumol/kg-h (H:DMH:dimaprit). Normalized dose responses showed that histamine was equipotent on acid and heart rate (ED50 0.15 vs. 0.14 respectively) while DMH (ED50 0.21 vs. 0.40) and dimaprit (ED50 0.27 vs. 0.85) stimulated heart rate less effectively than acid. Histamine was more effective at reducing blood pressure, with approximate ED50 of 0.28:0.60:0.96 for H, DMH and dimaprit respectively. The results indicate considerable heterogeneity of histamine responses for different actions mediated by the H-2 receptors, as well as differences for any one action between H-2 agonists.
Evidence for a role of endogenous histamine in central cardiovascular regulation: inhibition of histamine-N-methyltransferase by SKF 91488.	Studies were undertaken to determine whether changes in endogenous brain histamine levels would occur concomitant with centrally mediated cardiovascular responses. All experiments were performed on conscious rats since previous findings by others have indicated anesthesia alters cardiovascular responses. Rats were injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with SKF 91488 (10-100 micrograms), a potent inhibitor of histamine-N-methyltransferase, while blood pressure and heart rate were recorded. In all animals, there was a dose-related increase in mean arterial blood pressure and a fall in mean heart rate after this treatment. These responses were very similar to the cardiovascular effects observed after i.c.v. injections of exogenous histamine (0.1-5.0 micrograms). Within 5 min after i.c.v. injection of SKF 91488, there was a statistically significant increase in hypothalamic histamine levels; within 15 min, histamine levels were significantly elevated in the cerebral cortex, hypothalamus and the remainder of the brain. In other experiments, cardiovascular responses after i.c.v. injection of histamine were potentiated by prior treatment with SKF 91488. It is concluded that brain histamine is involved in central cardiovascular regulation and that the hypothalamus may be a site of action. These results also imply a neurotransmitter role for histamine in the mammalian brain.
H2-receptors in the human ocular surface.	Ten normal human volunteers participated in a two-part study of H2-receptor activity in the ocular surface. Dimethylaminopropylisothiourea (trivial name, dimaprit dihydrochloride), a highly selective H2-receptor agonist, produced vasodilation without itch. Pretreatment with the H2-receptor antagonist, cimetidine, significantly blocked the vasodilatory effect of dimethylaminopropylisothiourea, whereas pretreatment with the H1-receptor antagonist, antazoline phosphate, did not. We conclude that H2-receptors are present in the human ocular surface.
Effects of thyroxine on prehatching developmental rate and behavior in the chick.	Development of chick embryos was studied following injection of thyroxine or the goitrogen thiourea and compared with that in control saline-injected eggs. The three stages recorded (onset of beak clapping, clicking, and hatching movements) all occurred late in embryos treated with thiourea on the 16th day of incubation. Thyroxine-treated eggs hatched significantly early only when incubated in groups in contact. This suggests that an acceleration effect of thyroxine reported in previous work may have represented an unreliable effect of thyroxine coupled with the synchronizing effect of contact with other eggs. Changes in hatching times following hormone injection are compared with these associated with effects of clicks, which are known to regulate developmental rate and to play a part in the synchronization of hatching.
Lactoferrin enhances hydroxyl radical production by human neutrophils, neutrophil particulate fractions, and an enzymatic generating system.	During phagocytosis, neutrophils take oxygen from the surrounding medium and convert it to superoxide anion (O2-) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Hydroxyl radical (.OH), a particularly potent oxidant, is believed to be produced by interaction between O2- and H2O2 in the presence of iron, according to the Haber-Weiss reactions. Production of .OH by whole human neutrophils, by particulate fractions from human neutrophils disrupted after stimulation, and by a xanthine oxidase system was measured by conversion of alpha-keto-gamma-methiol butyric acid to ethylene. FeCl3 or ferric EDTA enhanced ethylene production in all three systems by 155--406% of base line at a concentration of 50--100 microM. Iron-saturated human milk lactoferrin, 100 nM, increased ethylene generation by 127--296%; and purified human neutrophil lactoferrin, 10 nM, enhanced ethylene production by 167--369%. Thus, iron bound to lactoferrin was approximately 5,000 times more effective in producing an enhancement in ethylene generation than iron derived from FeCl3 or ferric EDTA. O2- and H2O2 were required for ethylene production in the presence of lactoferrin, since superoxide dismutase inhibited ethylene formation in the three systems by 76--97% and catalase inhibited by 76--98%. Ethylene production in the presence of lactoferrin was inhibited by the .OH scavengers mannitol, benzoate, and thiourea by 43--85, 45--94, and 76--96%, respectively. Thus, most of the ethylene production could be attributed to oxidation of alpha-keto-gamma-methiol butyric acid by .OH. The ability of neutrophil lactoferrin to provide iron efficiently to the oxygen radical-generating systems is compatible with a role for lactoferrin as regulator of .OH production. As such, lactoferrin may be an important component in the microbicidal activity of neutrophils.
Effect of .OH scavengers on radiation damage to the erythrocyte membrane.	Thiourea, and .OH scavenger, reduced the gamma-radiation-induced changes in the rigidity of erythrocyte membrane lipids, the state of membrane proteins, and lipid peroxidation. Several .OH scavengers, but not superoxide dismutase, also inhibited the radiation-induced acceleration of the transport of a hydrophilic non-electrolyte spin label TEMPOL across the erythrocyte membrane. The effects of scavengers were usually biphasic with a maximum of the protective effect. Higher concentrations of the scavengers were less effective, as in the case of radioprotection of erythrocytes to haemolysis studied previously.
Pituitary-testicular function changes in hypo- and hyperthyroid male rats.	The influence of thyroid deficiency and the administration of thyroxine on pituitary-testicular function were studied in male albino rats from weaning age (22 days old) up to 82 days of age. The results showed that the hyperthyroid state induced by a daily injection of 2.5 or 5 microng L-thyroxine resulted in acceleration of growth, a comparative increase in size and number of spermatogenic and interstitial cells, an increase in the STH cells, particularly at the earlier age (42 days old), and in a decrease in the number and size of TSH cells. Gonadotrophic FSH and LH and prolactin cells exhibited an increase in their granular content. The hypothyroid state induced by thyroidectomy or thiourea feeding, at the levels of 0.1 and 0.2% resulted in the depression of growth rate, destructive changes of the spermatogenic and interstitial cells and also in the lumen of the seminiferous tubules. A decrease in the STH, gonadotrophic FSH and LH and prolactin cells and hypertrophy of TSH cells accompanied by degranulation were also observed.
Uric acid inhibits L-DOPA-CU(II) mediated DNA cleavage.	It has been proposed that considerable DNA damage may be caused by endogenous metabolites produced during the body's normal metabolic processes. We have previously shown that L-DOPA, in the presence of Cu(II) leads to oxidative DNA breakage in vitro. Uric acid is considered to be a naturally occuring antioxidant and is present in plasma at a relatively high concentration. In this paper we report that uric acid inhibits L-DOPA-Cu(II) mediated DNA cleavage at concentrations similar to or lower than those found in plasma. Xanthine, which is the structural analogue of uric acid is a more potent inhibitor of the reaction. Uric acid was also shown to directly quench the generation of hydroxyl radicals by L-DOPA-Cu(II). The results have been discussed in relation to the putative protective role of uric acid against endogenous DNA damage by oxygen radicals.
