Altered mercaptopurine metabolism, toxic effects, and dosage requirement in a thiopurine methyltransferase-deficient child with acute lymphocytic leukemia.	Thiopurine methyltransferase deficiency, inherited as an autosomal codominant trait, is associated with aberrant mercaptopurine metabolism leading to excessive cellular accumulation of 6-thioguanine nucleotides, the active metabolites of mercaptopurine. We describe a case of severe thiopurine methyltransferase deficiency (activity less than 1 U/8 x 10(8) erythrocytes) in a young girl with acute lymphocytic leukemia. The level of 6-thioguanine nucleotide in the patient's erythrocytes was seven times the population median value, and she had intolerable hematologic toxic effects during postremission therapy with a standard dosage of mercaptopurine (75 mg/m2 per day). Subsequent therapy with 6% of this dosage (10 mg/m2 three times weekly) yielded erythrocytic 6-thioguanine nucleotide concentrations consistently above the population median but not associated with prohibitively toxic effects. This case demonstrates that thiopurine methyltransferase deficiency does not absolutely contraindicate mercaptopurine therapy, and it also provides insight into the mechanism of excessive toxic effects of mercaptopurine sometimes observed in children with acute lymphocytic leukemia.
Effects of 6-thioguanine and S6-methylthioguanine on transcription in vitro and in human cells.	Thiopurine drugs are extensively used as chemotherapeutic agents in clinical practice, even though there is concern about the risk of therapy-related cancers. It has been previously suggested that the cytotoxicity of thiopurine drugs involves their metabolic activation, the resultant generation of 6-thioguanine ((S)G) and S(6)-methylthioguanine (S(6)mG) in DNA, and the futile mismatch repair triggered by replication-induced (S)G:T and S(6)mG:T mispairs. Disruption of transcription is known to be one of the major consequences of DNA damage induced by many antiviral and antitumor agents; however, it remains undefined how (S)G and S(6)mG compromise the efficiency and fidelity of transcription. Using our recently developed competitive transcription and adduct bypass assay, herein we examined the impact of (S)G and S(6)mG on transcription in vitro and in human cells. Our results revealed that, when situated on the transcribed strand, S(6)mG exhibited both inhibitory and mutagenic effects during transcription mediated by single-subunit T7 RNA polymerase or multisubunit human RNA polymerase II in vitro and in human cells. Moreover, we found that the impact of S(6)mG on transcriptional efficiency and fidelity is modulated by the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair capacity. In contrast, (S)G did not considerably compromise the efficiency or fidelity of transcription, and it was a poor substrate for NER. We propose that S(6)mG might contribute, at least in part, to thiopurine-mediated cytotoxicity through inhibition of transcription and to potential therapy-related carcinogenesis via transcriptional mutagenesis.
