NADH-sensitive propionyl-CoA hydrolase in brown-adipose-tissue mitochondria of the rat.	Acyl-CoA hydrolase activity was studied in brown adipose tissue (BAT) mitochondria of rats. The substrate specificity was investigated: total hydrolase activity showed two activity peaks, one sharp peak for propionyl-CoA and a broad peak at medium- to long-chain acyl-CoAs. The propionyl-CoA activity fully comigrated with a mitochondrial matrix marker enzyme in fractionation studies of tissue and mitochondria. The hydrolytic activity against short-chain acyl-CoAs was inhibited by NADH, and analyses of the substrate specificity of the hydrolases in the presence and absence of NADH allowed for the delineation of two distinct acyl-CoA hydrolases. These hydrolases could also be separated by gel filtration. It was concluded that rat BAT mitochondria possess at least two matrix acyl-CoA hydrolases: one broad-spectrum acyl-CoA hydrolase with an apparent native molecular weight of less than 100,000, and a specific propionyl-CoA hydrolase with an apparent native molecular weight at least 240,000; this hydrolase is regulated by NADH. It is suggested that the function of the propionyl-CoA hydrolase is to ensure that the level of propionyl-CoA in the mitochondria is not detrimentally increased.
Purification and characterization of an acetyl-CoA hydrolase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Acetyl-CoA hydrolase, which hydrolyzes acetyl-CoA to acetate and CoASH, was isolated from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and demonstrated by protein sequence analysis to be NH2-terminally blocked. The enzyme was purified 1080-fold to apparent homogeneity by successive purification steps using DEAE-Sepharose, gel filtration and hydroxylapatite. The molecular mass of the native yeast acetyl-CoA hydrolase was estimated to be 64 +/- 5 kDa by gel-filtration chromatography. SDS/PAGE analysis revealed that the denatured molecular mass was 65 +/- 2 kDa and together with that for the native enzyme indicates that yeast acetyl-CoA hydrolase was monomeric. The enzyme had a pH optimum near 8.0 and its pI was approximately 5.8. Several acyl-CoA derivatives of varying chain length were tested as substrates for yeast acetyl-CoA hydrolase. Although acetyl-CoA hydrolase was relatively specific for acetyl-CoA, longer acyl-chain CoAs were also hydrolyzed and were capable of functioning as inhibitors during the hydrolysis of acetyl-CoA. Among a series of divalent cations, Zn2+ was demonstrated to be the most potent inhibitor. The enzyme was inactivated by chemical modification with diethyl pyrocarbonate, a histidine-modifying reagent.
Kinetics of reduction by free flavin semiquinones of algal cytochromes and plastocyanin.	It had been shown that plastocyanin and cytochrome c-553 are functionally interchangeable in algae and that the physiological electron transfer reactions are sensitive to ionic strength. The isoelectric points of these proteins range from very acidic to basic depending upon species, and naturally occurring amino acid substitutions of charged residues have been shown to affect the kinetics of electron transfer, presumably through alteration of protein net charge. We have now shown that these naturally occurring amino acid substitutions also affect the kinetics of nonphysiological electron transfer reactions, and that we can quantitate the extent of nonconservation of charge. The reduction of plant and algal proteins by FMN semiquinone is sensitive to ionic strength and the effects can be correlated with net protein charge with regard to sign, but not to magnitude, with the charge at the site of electron transfer varying from +3 through 0 to -3. We had previously observed in a large variety of electron transfer proteins from bacteria (G. Tollin, T. E. Meyer, and M. A. Cusanovich (1986) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 853, 29-41) that charge localized at the site of electron transfer, rather than net protein charge, was more likely to affect kinetics. This also appears to be the case with the algal proteins. By comparison of protein structures, we have been able to predict which substitutions are likely to be responsible for the kinetic effects in the algal proteins and to discuss the implications of such changes for function.
Demonstration of glyoxalase II in rat liver mitochondria. Partial purification and occurrence in multiple forms.	Glyoxalase II (S-(2-hydroxyacyl)glutathione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6), which has been regarded as a cytosolic enzyme, was also found in rat liver mitochondria. The mitochondrial fraction contained about 10-15% of the total glyoxalase II activity in liver. The actual existence of the specific mitochondrial glyoxalase II was verified by showing that all of the activity of the crude mitochondrial pellet was still present in purified mitochondria prepared in a Ficoll gradient. Subfractionation of the mitochondria by digitonin treatment showed that 56% of the activity resided in the mitochondrial matrix and 19% in the intermembrane space. Partial purification of the enzyme (420-fold) was also achieved. Statistically significant differences were found in the substrate specificities of the mitochondrial and the cytosolic glyoxalase II. Electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing of either the crude mitochondrial extract or of the purified mitochondrial glyoxalase II resolved the enzyme activity into five forms with the respective pI values of 8.1, 7.5, 7.0, 6.85 and 6.6. Three of these forms (pI values 7.0-6.6) were exclusively mitochondrial, with no counterpart in the cytosol. The relative molecular mass of the partially purified enzyme, as estimated by Superose 12 gel chromatography, was 21,000. These results give evidence for the presence of mitochondrial glyoxalase II which is different from the cytosolic enzymes in several characteristics.
A comparative study on glyoxalase II from vertebrata.	S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (glyoxalase II) from the liver of animals belonging to the various vertebrate classes (Oryctolagus cuniculus, Gallus gallus, Python molurus, Rana esculenta, Esox lucius) have been purified from 100,000 g supernatants of liver homogenates, using acetone fractionation and affinity chromatography. Subsequent comparative studies were concerned with some molecular and kinetic properties. Isoelectric focusing gave evidence for a single form of liver glyoxalase II in O. cuniculus, P. molurus and E. lucius, while the enzyme from G. gallus and R. esculenta showed respectively two and three forms with different pI values. All studied enzymes are basic proteins. The relative molecular mass values range from 18,000 to 23,000. The various glyoxalases II do not display markedly different Kn or Ki values. Their stability behavior at different temperatures is also quite similar.
