Antioxidant enzymatic activities in human blood cells after an allergic reaction to pollen or house dust mite.	Several diseases have been related to oxidative stress. Recently, antioxidant functions have also been linked to anti-inflammatory properties. Cell defenses against reactive oxygen species include antioxidant enzymes. We studied the enzymatic antioxidant capacity in human blood of both red blood and mononuclear cells from patients suffering from an allergic reaction to pollen or house dust mite. We determined superoxide dismutases (SODs), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) and catalase (CAT) activities in each cell type. We also determined the extent of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), in order to study the correlation between the cellular enzymatic activities, the redox status and the disease. In mononuclear cells from allergic patients, SODs and CAT activities were enhanced compared to controls. Conversely, a decrease in GSHPx activity was found. In erythrocytes, higher values for GSHPx and SODs and similar CAT activities were found in allergic patients and controls. Interestingly, CuZnSOD and MnSOD activities were enhanced in the same proportion for both, erythrocytes and mononuclear cells. TBARS were also enhanced in both types of cells. The respective enzymatic imbalances in mononuclear cells and erythrocytes, namely, GSHPx/SOD and CAT/SOD, and their consequences are discussed. To our knowledge, this is the first global study of antioxidant enzymes, including TBARS level determinations, in allergy.
Susceptibility to oxidation of copper-induced plasma lipoproteins from Japanese eel: protective effect of vitellogenin on the oxidation of very low density lipoprotein.	The susceptibility to oxidation of copper-induced plasma lipoproteins from Japanese eel Anguilla japonica was examined with the guidance of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). The TBARS values of copper-induced plasma lipoproteins increased with increasing the lipid-to-apolipoprotein ratios and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) exhibited the highest TBARS value. On the other hand, vitellogenin, estrogen-induced precursor of egg yolk proteins, was resistant to copper-induced oxidation and seemed to chelate low concentrations of copper ion. Vitellogenin also protected the copper-induced oxidation of VLDL because of its antioxidant function. Vitellogenin seemed to serve as transition metals-binding lipoprotein by which free-radical reactions in the oocytes were extensively depressed.
Effect of cadmium-induced lipid peroxidation on EEG spectral components.	Pregnant Swiss albino rats were divided into control (C) and cadmium (Cd) groups. Control animals received tap water while the Cd group received Cd as CdCl2 in their drinking water. The rat pups were separated from their mothers 22 days after birth. 78 young rats were divided into two main groups: controls (C1, C2, C4) and cadmium groups (Cd1, Cd2, Cd4). Each sub-group included 13 rats. On postnatal days 30, 60, and 120, spectral analysis of EEGs recorded from the parietal lobes of all groups of rats was computed by fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm. The amplitude maxima were found to occupy the frequency bands of 1-2, 2-4, 4-6, 6-8, 8-16, and 16-30 Hz. The decibel (dB) values of the maxima were significantly decreased in Cd1 and Cd2 groups compared with the corresponding control groups in all the frequency bands except 16-30 Hz. A significant amplitude (dB) decrease was observed in all the frequency bands of the Cd4 group compared with the C4 group.
The effect of cadmium (Cd) treatment on somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and conduction velocity in alloxane-induced diabetic rats: relation to lipid peroxidation.	Fifty-two healthy Swiss male albino rats, aged three months, were divided into four groups: Control (C), diabetic (D), cadmium (Cd), and diabetic + Cd (D+Cd). Diabetes was induced in D and D+Cd groups by administration of alloxane (5 mg/100 g). Cd and D+Cd groups were injected with CdCl2 i.p. (2 mg/kg/week) for 2 months. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) of the four groups were recorded following left posterior tibial nerve (PTN) stimulation. The mean latencies of P1, N1, P2 and N2 components were prolonged in all experimental groups compared with the control group. P1N1 and N1P2 amplitudes were significantly decreased in Cd and D+Cd groups in comparison with the control group. P2N2 amplitude was significantly decreased in the Cd group compared with the control group. In addition, conduction velocities and action potential amplitudes were determined from the sciatic nerves. The means of peripheral conduction velocities and action potential amplitudes were decreased significantly in all the experimental groups in comparison with the control group. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), an indicator of lipid peroxidation, were increased in the kidneys and sciatic nerves of all experimental groups compared with the control group. A significant increase in the TBARS level of the brain was found in the Cd and D+Cd groups.
Formation of the aldehydic choline glycerophospholipids in human red blood cell membrane peroxidized with an azo initiator.	The production of phospholipid hydroperoxide and aldehydic phospholipid was examined in human red blood cell (RBC) membranes after peroxidation with 2,2-azobis(2-amidinopropane)dihydrochloride (AAPH) or xanthine/xanthine oxidase (XO/XOD/Fe3+). Both radical-generation systems caused a profound decrease in the amount of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) in choline glycerophospholipid (CGP) and induced formation of peroxidized CGP in RBC membranes to different extents. No consistent generation of peroxidized lipids from CGP was evident after peroxidation with XO/XOD/Fe3+, which caused the apparent decomposition of phospholipids and the formation of large amounts of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS). On the other hand, CGP hydroperoxide was formed as a primary product of peroxidation with AAPH. Aldehydic CGP was also detected as a secondary product of hydroperoxide decomposition in AAPH-peroxidized RBC membranes. Aldehydic CGP was preferentially generated from arachidonoyl CGP rather than from linoleoyl CGP in AAPH-peroxidized membranes. AAPH mainly oxidized CGP to hydroperoxide and aldehydic phospholipids. The sum of hydroperoxide and aldehyde of CGP corresponded to the loss of CGP due to peroxidation by AAPH. This result indicates that CGP was mainly converted into these two oxidized phospholipids in AAPH-peroxidized RBC membranes.
Oxidative damage in fetal rat brain induced by ischemia and subsequent reperfusion. Relation to arachidonic acid peroxidation.	To determine whether ischemia followed by subsequent reperfusion can induce fetal cerebral oxidative damage, we created a model of fetal ischemia/reperfusion using rats at day 19 of pregnancy. Fetal ischemia was induced by unilateral occlusion of the utero-ovarian artery for 20 min. Reperfusion was achieved by releasing the occlusion and restoring the circulation for 30 min. The opposite uterine horn was used as control. We measured brain mitochondrial respiratory control index (RCI) and the concentration of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in each group. Arachidonic acid (AA) peroxidation induced by the incubation of brain microvessel fraction and AA was measured. AA peroxidation was also evaluated with and without aspirin, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase and phenidone, which inhibits both of cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase. The RCI significantly decreased by the occlusion with (p < 0.01) or without reperfusion (p < 0.05). The TBARS level significantly increased with occlusion plus reperfusion (p < 0.01). AA peroxidation was significantly greater in the occlusion and occlusion plus reperfusion groups than in the control groups (p < 0. 01). Aspirin did not affect peroxidation, while phenidone significantly inhibited it in a concentration-dependent manner (p < 0.001). Accordingly, ischemia followed by reperfusion is likely to induce fetal cerebral lipid peroxidation, which may inhibit mitochondrial respiratory activity. The phenidone-inhibited enzyme lipoxygenase may participate importantly in this peroxidation.
Dietary copper primarily affects antioxidant capacity and dietary iron mainly affects iron status in a surface response study of female rats fed varying concentrations of iron, zinc and copper.	This study was designed to examine the interactions among dietary iron (Fe), copper (Cu), and zinc (Zn) and their effects on Fe status and oxidative stress in female rats. In a three-factor central composite response surface design, rats were assigned to 15 groups and fed modified AIN-93G basal diets with varying amounts of Fe and Zn (7.0, 15.5, 45.8, 135.6, or 300 micrograms/g diet) and Cu (0.5, 1.1, 3.2, 9.2, or 20 micrograms/g diet) for 6 wk. Variations in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and serum ferritin were mainly related to dietary Fe. Liver nonheme Fe was directly affected by dietary Fe and was slightly attenuated by interactions between Cu and Zn, and Zn and Fe. Serum ceruloplasmin activity was primarily determined by an interaction between Cu and Zn with substantial moderation by the quadratic effect of dietary Cu. Liver and heart total superoxide dismutase (SOD) and Cu/Zn SOD activities were directly affected by dietary Cu. Dietary Fe was the only significant, yet weak, predictor of liver thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and vitamin E content and serum triacylglycerols. Variability in serum Cu was mostly determined by the interaction between Cu and Fe, with modification from the quadratic effect of dietary Cu. Serum Zn varied with dietary Zn with a small negative influence from the interaction between Cu and Fe. In summary, Fe status was minimally influenced by dietary Zn or Cu, and Fe intakes 10-fold greater than required did not induce overt oxidative stress in female rats. In addition, measures of antioxidant capacity were primarily influenced by dietary Cu and were optimal at moderate intakes of this micronutrient.
Linoleic acid hydroperoxide favours hypochlorite- and myeloperoxidase-induced lipid peroxidation.	Liposomes composed of soybean phosphatidylcholine were peroxidized using the reagent sodium hypochlorite or the myeloperoxidase-hydrogen peroxide-Cl- system. Linoleic acid hydroperoxide previously prepared from linoleic acid by means of lipoxidase was incorporated into liposomes. The yield of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) continuously increased with higher amounts of hydroperoxide groups after the initiation of lipid peroxidation by hypochlorous acid producing systems. The accumulation of TBARS was inhibited by scavengers of free radicals such as butylated hydroxytoluene and by the scavengers of hypochlorous acid, taurine and methionine. Lipid peroxidation was also prevented by sodium azide or chloride free medium in the myeloperoxidase-hydrogen peroxide-Cl- system. Here we show for the first time that the reaction of hypochlorous acid with a biologically relevant hydroperoxide yields free radicals able to cause further oxidation of lipid molecules.
Free-radical scavenging action of medicinal herbs from Ghana: Thonningia sanguinea on experimentally-induced liver injuries.	The antioxidant action of medicinal herbs used in Ghana for treating various ailments was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Five plants, Desmodium adscendens, Indigofera arrecta, Trema occidentalis, Caparis erythrocarpus, and Thonningia sanguinea were tested for their free radical scavenging action by their interaction with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH). Of these five plants, only Thonningia sanguinea was found to scavenge the DPPH radical. Lipid peroxidation in liver microsomes induced by H2O2 was also inhibited by T. sanguinea. The hepatoprotective effect of T. sanguinea was studied on acute hepatitis induced in rats by a single dose of galactosamine (GalN, 400 mg/kg, IP) and in mice by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4, 25 microl/kg, IP). GalN induced hepatotoxicity in rats as evidenced by an increase in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activities in serum was significantly inhibited when T. sanguinea extract (5 ml/kg, IP) was given to rats 12 hr and 1 hr before GalN treatment. The activity of liver microsomal GSH S-transferase, which is known to be activated by oxidative stress, was increased by the GaIN treatment and this increase was blocked by T. sanguinea pretreatment. Similarly, T. sanguinea pretreatment also inhibited CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. These data indicate that T. sanguinea is a potent antioxidant and can offer protection against GalN- or CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity.
Bifemelane hydrochloride protects against cytotoxicity of hydrogen peroxide on cultured rat neuroblastoma cell line.	Free radicals are involved in neuronal damage. Bifemelane hydrochloride has been reported to protect neural tissues against ischemic damage and age-related neurodegeneration. We examined the protective effects of bifemelane HCl and the relation between its effectiveness and free radical formation in hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced cytotoxicity using cultured rat neuroblastoma cell line (B50). Cytotoxicity was examined by using the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay and cell viability by the WST-1 assay. H2O2 reduced the survival of B50 cells in a dose-dependent manner, and treatment of these cells with 75 microM or 100 microM H2O2 reduced their viability by 50% relative to the control group. B50 cells were treated with 5 or 10 microM bifemelane for 2 days followed by treatment with 75 microM or 100 microM H2O2. H2O2 cytotoxicity was reduced by pretreatment with bifemelane. We also examined the effect of bifemelane on lipid peroxide formation in B50 cells using thiobarbituric acid reactive substances assay. Pretreatment of B50 cells with 10 microM bifemelane for 2 days reduced lipid peroxide formation to approximately 54% of the control group. Our results suggest that bifemelane hydrochloride provides a protective effect against H2O2 cytotoxicity partly due to its anti-oxidative properties.
Regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression during oxidative stress in neuronal and in endothelial cells.	The relationship between oxidative stress and Bcl-2 expression was investigated in two different experimental models of oxidative stress. Acute oxidative stress was assessed by measuring, with fluorescence microscopy and cytofluorimetry, the increase in fluorescence of the oxidation-sensitive probe dihydrorhodamine 123, both in retinal rod receptor cells exposed to bright light (0.32 mW/cm(2) for 15 minutes) and in human endothelial cells treated with the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (200 microM for 21 h). In both cell types, acute oxidative stress reduced Bcl-2 expression and also caused a significant increase in the level of nucleosomes. Interestingly, chronic treatment with clinical concentrations of cyclosporin A (0.5-2.5 microM for 8 days) led to a significant increase in Bcl-2 expression, while nucleosomes were similar to control level. This suggests that up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein by low levels of oxidants may represent a critical factor in cellular adaptation to drug toxicity.
Antioxidant activity of Tinospora cordifolia roots in experimental diabetes.	We made an attempt to study the antioxidant properties of Tinospora cordifolia roots, an indigenous plant used in Ayurvedic medicine in India in alloxan diabetic rats. Oral administration of an aqueous T. cordifolia root extract (TCREt) (2.5 and 5.0 g/kg) for 6 weeks resulted in a decrease in the levels of plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, ceruloplasmin and alpha-tocopherol in alloxan diabetic rats. The root extract also causes an increase in the levels of glutathione and vitamin C in alloxan diabetes. The root extract at a dose of 5.0 g/kg showed the highest effect. The effect of TCREt was more effective than glibenclamide. Insulin restored all the parameters to near normal levels.
Myocardial and skeletal muscle aging and changes in oxidative stress in relationship to rigorous exercise training.	Cardiac and skeletal muscle are very different functional tissues, and we would expect a variation in the ROS generation, in ageing and rigorous exercise-related in both tissues. We determined TBARS, total SOD, Cu, ZnSOD and MnSOD activities, and the patterns of SOD isoenzymes in skeletal muscle and heart of male Wistar rats, young and old, in rest and after rigorous exercise. There were no differences in the levels of lipoperoxidation in aged rest animals in both tissues, but the level was increased after exhaustion. The level of SOD activities was bigger in the heart than in skeletal muscle. Total SOD and Cu, ZnSOD activities were higher in old rest animals in the skeletal muscle than in young rest rats. This change did not occur in the heart. After rigorous exercise, the level of SOD activities was increased in young rats in both tissues. However, in old exhausted rats, the activities were only elevated in the heart. Different Cu, ZnSOD isoenzyme patterns showed in relation to tissues. In the skeletal muscle in old animals, the Cu, ZnSOD isoenzyme pattern was modified. The rigorous exercise did not change this pattern. The pattern of MnSOD isoenzyme was not varied in either tissue, age nor and exercise.
Protective effect of dehydroepiandrosterone against lipid peroxidation in a human liver cell line.	Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a widely studied steroid hormone with multi-functional properties. Reports suggest that some of the many activities of DHEA are due to its protective effect against lipid peroxidation. Nevertheless, the antioxidant properties of DHEA are still the subject of debate. The aim was to evaluate whether its two opposed effects on lipid peroxidation reported in the literature may be dependent on schedule and doses used.
Changes in membrane fluidity and lipid peroxidation of skeletal muscle mitochondria after exhausting exercise in rats.	We studied the effects of exhausting exercise and exercise training on skeletal muscle mitochondrial membrane fluidity and lipid peroxidation in rats. The first part of the study involved 60 untrained rats divided into six equal groups. Of the total number 10 rats were sedentary and acted as controls. The remaining 50 rats exercised to exhaustion and were sacrificed at 0-h, 24-h, 48-h, 72-h, and 96-h post-exercise. The second part of the study involved 40 rats which were divided into four equal groups. Of these 10 rats were sedentary and acted as controls. The remaining 30 rats underwent 8 weeks of exercise training. They were then subjected to a single period of exhausting exercise and were sacrificed at 0-h, 24-h and 48-h post-exercise. Membrane fluidity was measured using the fluorescence polarization method. Lipid peroxidation was estimated by determining the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in mitochondria. In the untrained rats, mitochondrial fluorescence polarization and TBARS contents were significantly increased post-exercise compared with the sedentary controls (P < 0.05). They did not return to near control levels until 96 h and 48 h, respectively. In the trained rats, fluorescence polarization was raised compared with the sedentary controls but this was significantly lower than those measured at the same times of the untrained group post-exercise (P < 0.05). Exhausting exercise decreased membrane fluidity and increased lipid peroxidation in rat skeletal muscle mitochondria. These effects were relieved to some extent by exercise training.
A high-fat diet aggravates tubulointerstitial but not glomerular lesions in obese Zucker rats.	Despite a large body of evidence that manipulation of dietary fat alters glomerular lesions, reports regarding the effects of dietary fat on tubulointerstitial lesions are limited. Obese Zucker rats (OZR) spontaneously develop glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions in association with hyperlipidemia. We sought to elucidate the effects of dietary fat on glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions in OZR versus lean Zucker rats (LZR) and to assess the involvement of macrophages in the development of these lesions.
Radiation induced oxidative stress: I. Studies in Ehrlich solid tumor in mice.	Understanding the response of tumors to ionizing radiation might potentially lead to improvement in tumor control and patient morbidity. Since the antioxidant status is likely to be linked to radioresponse, its modulation needs to be examined. Therefore, Swiss albino male mice (7-8 weeks old) with Ehrlich solid tumors were irradiated with different doses of gamma rays (0-9 Gy) at a dose rate of 0.0153 Gy/s; and enzymes involved in antioxidant functions were determined in the tumors. Radiation effects in terms of oxidative damage, LDH, nitric oxide and DNA fragmentation were also examined. In tumors, the specific activity of SOD was increased with dose but declined 6 Gy onwards. GST, DTD and GSH showed an almost progressive increase. These enhanced activities might have resulted from the increased protein expression. This possibility was supported by the Western Blot analysis for GST protein. These changes might be closely linked to the radiation-induced oxidative stress as reflected by the enhanced levels of peroxidative damage, DNA fragmentation, LDH activity and nitric oxide levels. These findings may have relevance to radiation therapy of cancer as the elevated antioxidant status of irradiated tumors is likely to limit the effectiveness of radiation dose and adversely affect the therapeutic gain.
Effect of cytochrome P450 1A induction on oxidative damage in rat brain.	Polycyclic and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs and HAHs) can enhance the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by inducing cytochrome P450 1A (CYP 1A) in vivo and in vitro. While the brain is vulnerable to oxidative injury, whether or not CYP 1A induction in the brain can produce measurable levels of oxidative damage has not been reported. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of this induction on oxidative damage to the CNS. Time course changes in rat brain CYP 1A activity were determined by measurement of ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity in whole brain homogenates. Three days after exposure of rats to five daily injections of 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) an approximately sevenfold increase in EROD activity was observed. Hepatic levels were increased 60-100 fold. This increase in CYP 1A activity was not accompanied by increased protein or lipid oxidation as measured by tryptophan fluorescence and TBAR formation, or decreased glutamine synthetase (GS) activity. These findings indicate that if increased CYP 1A activity in the brain following 3-MC treatment leads to increased ROS generation, the increase is insufficient to overwhelm the endogenous antioxidant defense system, produce detectable oxidative damage, and alter glutamate homeostasis.
Long-term effects of chromium, grape seed extract, and zinc on various metabolic parameters of rats.	Progressive insulin resistance may contribute to both enhanced glycosylation of proteins and nucleic acids and augmented free radical damage commonly associated with aging. Accordingly, ingestion of chromium and antioxidants which improve insulin sensitivity and/or lessen free radical formation could theoretically ameliorate these basic disorders and lessen signs and symptoms of chronic age-related disorders. However, this supposition is based primarily upon acute rather than chronic data. Therefore, we divided 104 F344/BN rats into 2 groups: a control group receiving a basic diet and a test group receiving the same diet with added chromium polynicotinate (5 ppm), zinc monomethionine (18 ppm elemental zinc), and a grape seed extract high in flavonoids (250 ppm). Initial mean systolic blood pressures (SBP) of both control and test groups were 122 mm Hg. Over the first 7 months, the SBP of the control animals steadily increased to 140 mm Hg and remained at this level for the next 7-8 months. In contrast, the SBP of the test animals initially decreased over the first 4 months to as low as 110-114 mm Hg. The SBP then increased over the following months, essentially reaching the starting value of 120 mm Hg. This was still significantly lower than control (p < 0.001). In 12 control and 12 test rats, hepatic TBARS formation, an estimate of lipid peroxidation/free radical formation, was significantly lower after 1 year ingesting the test diet (p < 0.04); and HbA1C was also statistically significantly lower in the test group (5.4 vs. 4.8%, p < 0.003). Circulating levels of cholesterol, HDL, and triglycerides were similar between the two groups. Body, kidney, and liver weights were not different after 1 year ingesting the different diets; but epididymal fat pad weight was less in the group receiving supplements. We conclude that after prolonged supplementation a combination of agents known to sensitize insulin response and act as antioxidants (chromium polynicotinate, grape seed extract, and zinc monomethionine) can markedly lower SBP in normotensive rats, lessen oxidative damage to fats as suggested by decreased TBARS formation, and lower HbA1C without showing signs of toxicity.
Release of iron from ferritin by metabolites of benzene and superoxide radical generating agents.	The release of iron from ferritin in the presence of benzene metabolites, viz. phenol (P), catechol (CT), hydroquinone (HQ) and superoxide radical generating compounds, viz. pyrogallol (PL), phloroglucinol (PG), phenylhydrazine (PH) or phenylenediamine (PD) was studied in acetate buffer, pH 5.6. Monitoring the formation of the iron-ferrozine complex quantitated the release of iron from ferritin. The presence of P (125 microM) did not result in the release of iron from ferritin, whereas the same concentration of CT, HQ, PL, PH or PD resulted in the release of significant amounts of iron from ferritin and a marginal amount of iron in the presence of PG, CT, HQ, PL, PH or PD concentration and time-dependent increase in iron release from ferritin were observed although the increase was not linear as a function of time and concentration of the compounds studied. The presence of superoxide dismutase inhibited significantly the release of iron from ferritin by CT, HQ, PL, PH or PD. The iron released from ferritin by CT, HQ, PL, PH or PD enhanced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenate and released aldehydic products from bleomycin-dependent degradation of DNA and also caused single strand nicks to pUC18 DNA. These studies indicate that CT and HQ, the two principal polyphenolic metabolites of benzene and PL, PH or PD, the superoxide radical generating compounds were capable of reducing ferric iron from ferritin and also mobilizing and releasing iron from ferritin core. The release of iron from ferritin by these compounds is a result of direct reduction of ferritin iron by electron transfer and also reduction via superoxide radical. The release of iron from ferritin by CT and HQ may have toxicological implications in relation to benzene toxicity. The release of iron by superoxide radical generating agents suggests that oxidative stress may play a role as this could lead to disruption of intracellular iron homeostasis.
Vitamin C inhibits endothelial cell apoptosis in congestive heart failure.	Proinflammatory cytokines like tumor necrosis factor-alpha and oxidative stress induce apoptotic cell death in endothelial cells (ECs). Systemic inflammation and increased oxidative stress in congestive heart failure (CHF) coincide with enhanced EC apoptosis and the development of endothelial dysfunction. Therefore, we investigated the effects of antioxidative vitamin C therapy on EC apoptosis in CHF patients.
Lipid profile and redox status in high performance rhythmic female teenagers gymnasts.	The aim of the present study is to evaluate the lipid profile and some parameters of oxi-redox status in a group of teenage female athletes. All gymnasts of the Portuguese National Team of Rhythmic (n=20) were included in the study. A group of untrained healthy female adolescents, matched for age, was also included (n=28).
The adult-specific ubiquinone Q(8) functions as an antioxidant in the filarial parasite, Setaria digitata.	The filarial parasite Setaria digitata is unique in having two ubiquinones, Q(6) and Q(8), in the adult stage, in place of one, namely Q(10), in the host. However, the microfilariae (mf) as well as the electron transfer complexes from adult mitochondria have been recently shown to contain only Q(6). The second ubiquinone Q(8) is present only in the adult and absent in the mf. Though both Q(6) and Q(8) are present in the adult stage in the ratio 65:35, there is an enrichment of Q(8) in the excretory and secretory (ES) materials released into the incubation medium. The Q(6) level in the ES materials decreased further when the adult parasite was incubated in presence of diethylcarbamazine, a drug which inhibits the release of mf, indicating that the Q(6) detected in ES may be of mf origin. The preferential release of Q(8) into the external medium and its presence in the adult stage without any apparent role in the electron transport process strongly indicate an antioxidant role for the molecule. The inhibitory effect of Q(8) on lipid peroxidation and the presence of other components such as catalase and superoxide dismutase shown to be present in ES materials in earlier studies help the filarial parasite survive for longer periods by overcoming the oxidative reactions of the host generated against it.
Ethanol-induced oxidative stress in rat astrocytes: role of HSP70.	Ethanol intake is associated with increase in lipid peroxidation and formation of reactive oxygen species in different cerebral areas, in neurons as well as in astrocytes. The latter's integrity is essential for the normal growth of neurons. In previous studies we observed, in different cerebral areas of both acutely and chronically ethanol-treated rats, correlation between ethanol-induced oxidative stress and the increased expression of HSP70 (70 kDa heat shock proteins), chaperonins having a protective and stabilizing effect on stress-induced cell injury. In this study we examined, in vitro, the role of HSP70 on chronically ethanol-treated rat astrocytes by transfection with an anti-HSP70 antisense oligonucleotide. The results show that treatment with ethanol, from 50 to 100 mmol/L, induces a dose-dependent increase in the production of reactive oxygen species and of HSP70 levels, together with an impairment of the respiratory chain activity and a decrease in cell viability. In addition, our data indicate a drastic reduction of cellular metabolism in HSP70-deprived astrocytes, particularly when these cells were also ethanol-treated. In fact, transfection with HSP70 antisense induced moderate oxidative damage in control astrocytes and, consequently, a drastic decrease in the viability of ethanol-treated cells, with the mitochondrial functionality being particularly affected. Our results confirm that heat shock proteins confer a survival advantage to the astrocytes, preventing oxidative damage and nuclear DNA damage as well, and suggest the development of new drugs exerting a cytoprotective role either in physiological, or pathological conditions.
Inhibitory effects of rosa roxburghii tratt juice on in vitro oxidative modification of low density lipoprotein and on the macrophage growth and cellular cholesteryl ester accumulation induced by oxidized low density lipoprotein.	Rosa roxburghii tratt juice (RRTJ) administration has been shown to significantly ameliorate atherosclerotic diseases in cholesterol-fed animals. However, the mechanism for the antiatherogenic effect of RRTJ is not clear.
Protection of U937 cells from free radical damage by the macrophage synthesized antioxidant 7,8-dihydroneopterin.	Interferon-gamma stimulation of human macrophages causes the synthesis and release of neopterin and its reduced form 7,8-dihydroneopterin (7,8-NP). The purpose of this cellular response is undetermined but in vitro experiments suggests 7,8-NP is an antioxidant. We have found 7,8-NP can protect monocyte-like U937 cells from oxidative damage. 7,8-NP inhibited ferrous ion and hypochlorite mediated loss of cell viability. Fe++ mediated lipid peroxidation was effectively inhibited by 7,8-NP, however, no correlation was found between peroxide concentration and cell viability. Hypochlorite was scavenged by 7,8-NP, preventing the loss of cell viability. 7,8-NP was less effective in inhibiting H2O2-mediated loss of cell viability with significant inhibition only occurring at high 7,8-NP concentrations. Analysis of cellular protein hydrolysates showed none of the oxidants caused the formation of any protein bound DOPA or dityrosine but did show 7,8-NP prevented the loss of cellular tyrosine by HOCl. Our data suggests macrophages may synthesize 7,8-NP for antioxidant protection during inflammatory events in vivo.
Role of some trace metal ions in placental membrane lipid peroxidation.	The antioxidative and/or pro-oxidative potential of three trace metal ions, namely aluminum (Al), manganese (Mn), and selenium (Se), has been studied. The effect of Al and Mn was found to be anion independent. The pro-oxidative potential of Al was more prominent than its antioxidative potential. This may be due to its redox inert nature. The increase in lipid peroxidation rates in placental syncytiotroblast membranes may contribute to the etiology of aluminum toxicity. Selenium had an antioxidative potential only in the whole-cell homogenate. This appears to be mediated by glutathione peroxidase of which Se is a cofactor. Manganese proved to be the trace metal ion of choice. It decreased the production of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). This may be due to its capacity to quench the superoxide anion and hydroxyl radicals and also due to its chain-breaking capacity. During the present course, ferrous-ascorbate mediated lipid peroxidation has been studied using various combinations of FeSO4 and ascorbic acid. Extrapolating the combined ratio of the individual combination as substrate concentration ([S]) and treating the observed amount of malondialdehyde (MDA) produced equivalent to initial velocity (vi), as in the case of enzymatic studies, the data were treated according to Michaelis-Menten kinetics and the values of kc and Cmax have been calculated.
Melatonin protects against cardiac toxicity of doxorubicin in rat.	Doxorubicin (DOX) is commonly used for the treatment of hematological and solid tumors. However, there are serious toxic effects on the cardiovascular system, which limits the application of the drug. Recently, melatonin has been reported to have immunomodulatory effect in addition to lowering cholesterol levels as well as inhibiting malignant tumors. In this study, the effect of melatonin against the toxicity of doxorubicin was investigated in rats. Hemodynamic function, pathological and biochemical changes were determined in different treated hearts. Our findings showed that a significant protection by melatonin (6 mg kg(-1) for 15 days, cumulative dose of 90 mg kg(-1)) against the DOX-induced toxicity was observed. Cardiac function was improved and lipid peroxidation decreased after melatonin treatment. It is concluded that melatonin provides protection against doxorubicin toxicity via an attenuation of lipid peroxidation.
Antioxidant systems and O(2)(.-)/H(2)O(2) production in the apoplast of pea leaves. Its relation with salt-induced necrotic lesions in minor veins.	The present work describes, for the first time, the changes that take place in the leaf apoplastic antioxidant defenses in response to NaCl stress in two pea (Pisum sativum) cultivars (cv Lincoln and cv Puget) showing different degrees of sensitivity to high NaCl concentrations. The results showed that only superoxide dismutase, and probably dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), were present in the leaf apoplastic space, whereas ascorbate (ASC) peroxidase, monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR), and glutathione (GSH) reductase (GR) seemed to be absent. Both ASC and GSH were detected in the leaf apoplastic space and although their absolute levels did not change in response to salt stress, the ASC/dehydroascorbate and GSH to GSH oxidized form ratios decreased progressively with the severity of the stress. Apoplastic superoxide dismutase activity was induced in NaCl-treated pea cv Puget but decreased in NaCl-treated pea cv Lincoln. An increase in DHAR and GR and a decrease in ASC peroxidase, MDHAR, ASC, and GSH levels was observed in the symplast from NaCl-treated pea cv Lincoln, whereas in pea cv Puget an increase in DHAR, GR, and MDHAR occurred. The results suggest a strong interaction between both cell compartments in the control of the apoplastic ASC content in pea leaves. However, this anti-oxidative response does not seem to be sufficient to remove the harmful effects of high salinity. This finding is more evident in pea cv Lincoln, which is characterized by a greater inhibition of the growth response and by a higher rise in the apoplastic hydrogen peroxide content, O(2)(.-) production and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, and CO protein levels. This NaCl-induced oxidative stress in the apoplasts might be related to the appearance of highly localized O(2)(.-)/H(2)O(2)-induced necrotic lesions in the minor veins in NaCl-treated pea plants. It is possible that both the different anti-oxidative capacity and the NaCl-induced response in the apoplast and in the symplast from pea cv Puget in comparison with pea cv Lincoln contributes to a better protection of pea cv Puget against salt stress.
Contents and uptake rates of Mn, Fe, Co, Zn, and Se in Se-deficient rat liver cell fractions.	The contents of manganese (Mn), iron (Fe), cobalt (Co), zinc (Zn), and selenium (Se) in nuclear (NU), mitochondrial (MT), microsomal (MC), and cytosolic (CS) fractions of liver homogenates of normal and selenium-deficient (SeD) rats were determined by instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA). The uptake rates of these elements in the liver cell fractions of both groups of rats were determined by multitracer analysis (MTA). The results indicated that Se-deficiency caused a significant increase in the content of Fe in the MC fractions. The MTA showed that the uptake rate of Fe was highest in the MC fraction, and that the uptake rate in the fraction was similar between the SeD and normal rats.
Modification of membrane-toxic effect of Nd-YAG laser by preliminary induction of cytochrome P-450 in bone marrow cells.	The cytotoxic effects of Nd-YAG laser with a wavelength of 533 nm were studied in mouse bone marrow cells in vitro. Laser exposure caused blebbing of bone marrow cell plasma membrane. Preliminary induction of cytochrome P-450 with 3-methylcholanthrene modified the cytotoxic effect of Nd-YAG laser.
Mechanism of low-density lipoprotein oxidation by hemoglobin-derived iron.	Excellular hemoglobin is an extremely active oxidant of low-density lipoproteins (LDL), a phenomenon explained so far by different mechanisms. In this study, we analyzed the mechanism of met-hemoglobin oxidability by comparing its mode of operation with other hemoproteins, met-myoglobin and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or with free hemin. The kinetics of met-hemoglobin activity toward LDL lipids and protein differed from that of met-myoglobin and HRP, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Those differences were further clarified by analyzing heme transfer from the above-mentioned hemoproteins to LDL. It appeared that met-hemoglobin transferred most of its hemin to LDL, and the presence of H(2)O(2) accelerated the process. In contrast, met-myoglobin partially released hemin, but only in the presence of H(2)O(2), while HRP could not transfer heme at all. The minor amount of hemin transferred from met-myoglobin to LDL sufficed to trigger ApoB oxidation, forming covalent aggregates via inter-bityrosines. This indicated that heme bound to high affinity site(s) is responsible for oxidation. LDL components providing the sites were analyzed by binding heme-CO monomers to LDL. Soret spectra revealed that the high affinity site of monomeric hemin is located on the LDL protein, ApoB. The complex heme-CO-ApoB underwent instantaneous oxidation to hemin-ApoB, and the bound hemin then slowly disintegrated in conjunction with LDL oxidation. Hemopexin prevented LDL oxidation by trapping hemoprotein transferable heme. We concluded that met-hemoglobin exerts its oxidative activity on LDL via transfer of heme, which serves as a vehicle for iron insertion into the LDL protein, leading to formation of atherogenic LDL aggregates.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) abuse may cause oxidative stress and potential free radical damage.	To investigate whether 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine abuse (MDMA abuse) may cause oxidative stress and potential free radical damage in the bodies of MDMA abusers (MA), and to explore the mechanisms by which MDMA abuse may be causing oxidative stress.
Antioxidant activity of Baccharis articulata extracts: isolation of a new compound with antioxidant activity.	Baccharis articulata is traditionally used as diuretic and digestive in local folk medicine of south of Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina. The antioxidant activity of crude ethanol and aqueous extracts, together with ethyl acetate and n-butanol fractions obtained from aqueous extract of B. articulata was determined using TRAP and TBARS assays. The n-butanol fraction was found to be the most active and its major compound (BaII) was isolated, identified and assayed. The structure of the phenolic compound BaII was established by means of spectroscopic and chemical methods as 4'-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-3',5'-dimethoxybenzyl-caffeate. This previously unreported metabolite presented similar antioxidant capacity when compared to Trolox.
Protective activity of (-)-epicatechin 3-O-gallate against peroxynitrite-mediated renal damage.	The protective effect of (-)-epicatechin 3-O-galate (ECg) against peroxynitrite (ONOO-)-mediated damage was examined using an animal model and a cell culture system. In rats subjected to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration plus ischemia-reperfusion, the plasma 3-nitrotyrosine level an indicator of ONOO- production in vivo, was elevated, whereas it declined significantly and dose-dependently after the oral administration of ECg at doses of 10 and 20 micromoles/kg body weight/day for 20 days prior to the process. Moreover, oral administration of ECg significantly enhanced the activities of the antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase, and the antioxidant glutathione, showing enhancement of the biological defense system against the damage induced by ONOO-. In addition, the significant increase in the renal mitochondrial thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance level of LPS and ischemic-reperfused control rats was attenuated in rats given ECg. Furthermore, the elevations in the plasma urea nitrogen and creatinine (Cr) levels and the urinary methylguanidine/Cr ratio induced by the procedure were attenuated markedly after oral administration of ECg, implying amelioration of renal impairment. The addition of ECg (25 or 125 microM) prior to 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1, 800 microM) exposure reduced ONOO- formation and increased the viability of cultured renal epithelial (LLC-PK1) cells in a dose-dependent manner. In particular, ECg inhibited ONOO(-)-mediated apoptotic cell death, which was confirmed by decreases in the DNA fragmentation rate and the presence of apoptotic morphological changes, i.e. small nuclei and nuclear fragmentation. Furthermore, adding ECg before SIN-1 treatment regulated the cell cycle by enhancing G2/M phase arrest. This study provides evidence that ECg has protective activity against the renal damage induced by excessive ONOO- in cellular and in vivo systems.
Neuroprotective effect of antioxidants on ischaemia and reperfusion-induced cerebral injury.	The present study is designed to investigate the effect of dietary flavanoid rutin, micronutrient selenium and garlic oil on ischaemia and reperfusion-induced cerebral injury. Global cerebral ischaemia was induced by occluding right and left common carotid arteries for 10min followed by reperfusion for 24h. Cerebral infarct size was estimated using triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. Elevated plus maze was employed to estimate short-term memory. Degree of motor incoordination was evaluated using inclined beam-walking test and lateral push test. Mitochondrial thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) assay was employed as an index of oxidative stress. Global cerebral ischaemia followed by reperfusion produced a significant impairment in short-term memory and motor coordination and produced a notable increase in mitochondrial TBARS. Administration of rutin and garlic oil before global cerebral ischaemia markedly reduced cerebral infarct size and attenuated impairment in short-term memory and motor coordination. Administration of sodium selenite either before or after global cerebral ischaemia markedly reduced cerebral infarct size and attenuated impairment in short-term memory and motor coordination. The protective effect of rutin, sodium selenite and garlic oil was accompanied by a marked decrease in mitochondrial TBARS. On the basis of these results, it may be suggested that rutin and garlic oil administrated before cerebral ischaemia may scavenge reactive oxygen species and consequently attenuate global cerebral ischaemia and reperfusion-induced cerebral injury. Sodium selenite administrated before and after cerebral ischaemia may be neuroprotective due to its antioxidant effect.
Water status and LPO in rat tissues during massive blood loss and irradiation with He-Ne laser.	We revealed a relationship between water balance and LPO in the myocardium, liver, and blood plasma during massive blood loss and irradiation with He-Ne laser. Low-intensity laser irradiation of the plasma inhibits LPO and normalizes water balance in rat tissues during massive blood loss.
Antioxidant activity of maslinic acid, a triterpene derivative obtained from Olea europaea.	We investigated the effect of maslinic acid (a triterpene derivative obtained from olive pomace), on the susceptibility of plasma or hepatocyte membranes to lipid peroxidation (LPO), induced respectively by the hydroxyl radical (OH*) generated by Fe2+/H2O2 ex vivo and by the system Fe3+/ascorbate in vitro; moreover, three groups of animals used in the plasma study were pretreated with CCl4 (to generate CCl3-*). Endogenous plasma lipoperoxide levels and susceptibility to LPO were decreased in rats treated with maslinic acid, after exposure to OH* by Fe2+/H2O2 (Fenton reaction). Co-incubation with maslinic acid prevented hepatocyte membrane LPO as shown by the reduction of TBARS. In conclusion, maslinic acid may offer some advantages in the resistance of oxidative stress in the animals.
Effects of different steroid treatment on reperfusion-associated production of reactive oxygen species and arrhythmias during coronary surgery.	During conventional cardiac surgery ischemia and reperfusion may cause excessive production of reactive oxygen species leading to tissue damage including early arrhythmias. We therefore assessed the kinetics of markers of radical stress including oxidized and reduced glutathione (GSSG/GSH), oxidized proteins (PCG) and malondialdehyde (MDA), and tested the hypothesis that different steroid treatments inhibit these markers and early reperfusion-associated supraventricular and ventricular extrasystolic beats.
Protection of endogenous beta-carotene in LDL oxidized by oxygen free radicals in the presence of supraphysiological concentrations of melatonin.	This study was designed to evaluate the effect of high concentrations of melatonin on the peroxidation of human low density lipoproteins (LDLs) initiated by O(2)(*-) and ethanol-derived peroxyl radicals (RO(2)(*)) from water gamma radiolysis in the presence of ethanol. LDL (3 g/l; total LDL concentration) was oxidized in the absence of melatonin or in its presence at three concentrations (50 x 10(-6), 100 x 10(-6) or 250 x 10(-6) mol/l) in ethanol. Radiolytic yields (i.e. number of mole consumed or produced per Joule) of the markers of lipid peroxidation were determined (i.e. decrease in the endogenous antioxidants alpha-tocopherol and beta-carotene, formation of conjugated dienes and of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances [TBARS]). Melatonin decreased the yields of lipid peroxidation products and delayed the onset of the propagation phase for conjugated dienes and TBARS in a concentration-dependent manner. Nevertheless, melatonin did not protect endogenous alpha-tocopherol against peroxyl-induced oxidation (probably due to a lower scavenging capacity than that of alpha-tocopherol towards peroxyl radicals), but delayed the consumption of LDL endogenous beta-carotene and decreased its rate of disappearance. The effect of melatonin seemed to be the highest for a melatonin concentration of 250 x 10(-6) mol/l.
Effect of vitamin E and vitamin C combination on experimental influenza virus infection.	Successful antioxidant treatment of the so-called "free radical diseases" has been reported in the literature. In this study we examined the preventive effect of vitamin E and vitamin C, alone and in combination, on the damage caused by influenza virus infection (IVI). Male mice (ICR), infected with influenza virus A/2/68/(H3N2) (1.5 of LD(50)), were administered single once-daily doses of vitamin E (60 mg/kg b.w.) and vitamin C (80 mg/kg b.w.) intraperitoneally (3 days before virus inoculation). On the 5th and 7th day, respectively, after virus inoculation, animals were decapitated. Monooxygenase enzyme activity (ethylmorphine N-demethylase, amidopyrin N-demethylase, analgin N-demethylase, aniline hydroxylase, cytochrome P-450 content and NADPH-cytochrome C reductase [CCR]) was determined in liver 9000 x g supernatant. Primary and secondary products of lipid peroxidation (LPO; conjugated dienes [CD] and TBA-reactive substances) were measured in blood plasma, lung and liver 9000 x g supernatant. Vitamin E effectively restored LPO-levels increased by IVI. The effect of vitamin C was similar, but slighter. The combination (vitamin E + C) had greater effect on LPO levels than their separate administration. P-450-dependent monooxygenase activity was significantly restored and more pronounced cytochrome P-450 content and NADPH-CCR activity was noted. The preventive effect of vitamin E was stronger than the effect of vitamin C, but the combination (vitamin E + C) had the strongest effect. The superior protective effect of the combination is probably due to vitamin C's repairing effect on vitamin E's tocopheroxyl radical.
Involvement of L-arginine-nitric oxide system in the response of isolated trachea to reactive oxygen species.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of reactive oxygen species (ROS), generated by electrolysis of Krebs-Henseleit solution (GE-KHS), on isolated guinea pig trachea and to assess the possible involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in the observed effects. The isolated trachea was superfused in GE-KHS, generating H2O2 and hypochlorous acid (HOCl), both of which slowly increased in the organ bath and reached final stable concentrations of 42 and 63 microM, respectively, at the rate of 20 ml/min(-1), and 261 and 245 microM, respectively, at the rate of 5 ml/min(-1). ROS GE-KHS-induced relaxation of tracheal rings was preceded by a small transient contraction in 40% and 65% of experiments when tracheal rings were superfused at the rate of 20 ml/min(-1) and 5 ml/min(-1), respectively. Removal of tracheal epithelium abolished the relaxation of the trachea induced by ROS GE-KHS and unmasked or potentiated trachealis contraction. The ROS GE-KHS-induced changes in trachealis tension were accompanied by an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and a decrease in nonprotein (NP) thiols in the trachea. These changes were inhibited by treatment with the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (100 microM). Pretreatment of tracheal rings with the inhibitor of NO synthase (NOS) N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG; 100 microM) for 20 min prior to exposure to ROS GE-KHS decreased the ROS GE-KHS-induced relaxation. When L-NOARG (100 microM) was present in the superfusing solution, not only 20 min before but also during superfusion with ROS GE-KHS, the evoked trachealis relaxation was reduced in the first 15 min but was enhanced in the 30th min. This late enhancement of relaxation was accompanied by a 12-fold increase in nitric oxide metabolites (NO(x)). ROS GE-KHS-induced elevation of TBARS levels in the trachea was decreased to 63% by pretreatment with L-NOARG (100 microM). Elevation of TBARS levels induced by incubation of brain liposomes with a hydroxyl radical generating system was decreased to 90% by L-NOARG (10, 100 microM), while the antioxidant stobadine (100 microM) nearly completely inhibited the evoked lipid peroxidation. In comparison with Trolox, L-NOARG exerted a slight scavenging effect on the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical. The presence of L-arginine and D-arginine in the superfusion fluid for 15-20 min before and during exposure of the trachea to ROS GE-KHS inhibited trachealis relaxation. Results indicate that epithelium derived NO may participate in the response of guinea pig trachea to ROS GE-KHS. The presence of L-NOARG in the bathing fluid during superfusion with ROS GE-KHS gave rise to NO(x), with relaxing activity. L- and D-arginine induced an inhibition of the relaxatory response to ROS GE-KHS and partially prevented a ROS-induced decrease in NP thiols. The involvement of the small antioxidant effects of L-NOARG and L- and D-arginine in the above mentioned actions of L-NOARG and L-arginine requires additional investigation.
Changes in expression and activity of glutathione S-transferase in different organs of schistosoma haematobium-infected hamster.	Schistosomiasis is a major health problem in many subtropical developing countries, causing a number of serious pathologies, including bladder cancer. Most of the toxic compounds formed as a result of these infestations are derived either exogenously or formed endogenously and can be conjugated with glutathione (GSH) via glutathione S-transferase (GST). The present study investigates the effect of Schistosma haematobium infection on the activity of GST and glutathione reductase (GR) and levels of glutathione and free radicals (measured as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances) in different organs of the male hamster. The total activity of GST was increased in several organs; in kidney by 50 and 46% at 6 and 10 weeks postinfection, respectively, and in bladder tissues by 169, 23, and 130% at 2, 4, and 6 weeks postinfection, respectively. In support of this, the expression of GST isozymes was also induced in kidney and bladder tissues at early stages (2, 4, and 6 weeks) and reduced at the later stages of infection (8 and 10 weeks). In contrast, the expression of these isozymes was decreased in the spleen and liver at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 weeks postinfection. Also, such activity was decreased in lungs by 74 and 78% and in bladders by 65 and 72% at 8 and 10 weeks postinfection, respectively. GSH levels increased in lungs by 95, 40, and 56% at 2, 4, and 6 weeks and in spleen by 26 and 74% at 4 and 6 weeks, respectively, but decreased at later stages of S. haematobium infection in these organs. The depletion of GSH levels also occurred in bladders by 72 and 54% at 8 and 10 weeks postinfection, respectively. The activity of GR was increased in the livers, lungs, and kidneys of the S. haematobium-infected hamster. TBARS also increased in the lung by 14, 65, 53, 828, and 624% and in the kidney by 64, 29, 87, 190, and 111%, and in the bladder by 216, 23, 1468, 528, and 1025% at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 weeks postinfection, respectively. This study indicates that low GST expression and high levels of free radicals could provide new evidence for damage to the bladder and other organs as a result of S. haematobium infection.
Relationship between expression of HSP70 and metallothionein and oxidative stress during mercury chloride induced acute liver injury in rats.	Mercury is a highly toxic metal which induces oxidative stress. Metallothionein and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) are stress proteins involved in response to different stimuli. In the present study rats were administered per oral application by gavage, a single daily dose (0.1 mg/kg) of HgCl(2) for 3 consecutive days. To find a relation between these two stress proteins and mercury, parameters of liver injury, redox state of the cells, and the expression and protein levels of HSP70 and metallothionein by Northern and Western blot analysis were assayed either in blood or in liver. HgCl(2) at the doses of 0.1 mg/kg induced liver injury detected by a slight increase in serum aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase activities and by the enhanced levels of bilirubin. Oxidative stress was detected by a significant decrease in protein-SH and an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in liver following one dose of mercury. mRNA and protein levels of both metallothionein and HSP70 increased progressively from first to third doses of mercury. We conclude that against low doses of mercury that produce a slight liver injury and oxidative stress, the liver rapidly responds by inducing the expression of metallothionein and HSP70. We suggest that metallothionein induction attenuates the decrease in protein-SH induced by the first dose of mercury, since metallothionein increases the pool of thiol groups in the cytosol eliminating oxygen radicals and inhibiting lipid peroxidation. From these results we can suggest that the changes observed in these stress proteins by the effect of mercury appear to be a response rapidly induced at transcriptional and at translational levels.
Effect of Coccinia indica leaf extract on plasma antioxidants in streptozotocin- induced experimental diabetes in rats.	The present study was carried out to investigate the antioxidant effect of an ethanolic extract of Coccinia indica leaves, an indigenous plant used in Ayurvedic Medicine in India, in Streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Oral administration of Coccinia indica leaf extract (CLEt) (200 mg/kg body weight) for 45 days resulted in a significant reduction in plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, hydroperoxides, vitamin E and ceruloplasmin. The extract also caused a significant increase in plasma vitamin C and reduced glutathione, which clearly shows the antioxidant property of CLEt. The effect of CLEt at 200 mg/kg body weight was more effective than glibenclamide.
In vitro effect of homocysteine on some parameters of oxidative stress in rat hippocampus.	Homocystinuria is an inherited metabolic disease characterized biochemically by increased blood and brain levels of homocysteine caused by severe deficiency of cystathionine beta-synthase activity. Affected patients present mental retardation, seizures, and atherosclerosis. Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative and vascular diseases, such Alzheimer's disease, stroke, and atherosclerosis. However, the mechanisms underlying the neurological damage characteristic of homocystinuria are still poorly understood. To evaluate the involvement of oxidative stress on the neurological dysfunction present in homocystinuria, we measured thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), an index of lipid peroxidation, and total radical-trapping antioxidant potential (TRAP) and antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase) in rat hippocampus in the absence (controls) or in the presence of homocysteine (10-500 microM) in vitro. We demonstrated that homocysteine significantly increases TBARS and decreases TRAP, both in a dose-dependent manner, but did not change antioxidant enzymes. Our results suggest that oxidative stress is involved in the neurological dysfunction of homocystinuria. However, further studies are necessary to confirm and extend our findings to the human condition and also to determine whether antioxidant therapy may be of benefit to these patients.
Inhibition of oxidative stress in blood platelets by different phenolics from Yucca schidigera Roezl. bark.	We investigated the comparative effects of resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), trans-3,3',5,5'tetrahydroxy-4'-methoxystilbene, and yuccaols A and C isolated from the bark of Yucca schidigera on oxidative stress in resting blood platelets and blood platelets activated by different agonists (thrombin or thrombin receptor activating peptide).
Dopamine receptor supersensitivity: an outcome and index of neurotoxicity.	The characteristic feature of neurotoxicity is a definable lesion which can account for observed deficits, corresponding to loss of nuclei or axonal fibers normally comprising a specific pathway or tract. However, with ontogenetic lesions, the operative definition fails. In rats lesioned as neonates with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), near-total destruction of dopamine- (DA-) containing nerves is produced, and this itself is definable. However, the most prominent feature of rats so-lesioned is the DA receptor supersensitivity (DARSS) that develops and then persists throughout the lifespan. DA D(1) receptors show overt supersensitivity to agonists producing vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), while D(1) receptors associated with locomotor activity have a latent supersensitivity that must be unmasked by repeated D(1) or D(2) agonist treatments - a 'priming' phenomenon. This D(1) DARSS is not usually associated in either a change in D(1) receptor number (B(max)) or affinity (K(d)). In contrast to D(1) DARSS, D(2) receptors are not so predictably supersensitized by a lesion of DA neurons. In reality, the permanently exaggerated response to an agonist by supersensitized receptors is per se a manifestation of neurotoxicity. Despite dramatic behavioral responses mediated by supersensitized receptors, DARSS has not been easy to correlate with enhanced production of second messengers or early response genes. Altered signaling (i.e., neuronal cross-talk) in defined pathways may represent the mechanism that produces so-called receptor supersensitization. Long-lived agonist-induced behavioral abnormality, with or without anatomic evidence of a neuronal lesion, is one of the products of DA D(1) receptor supersensitization -- itself an index of neurotoxicity.
Homocysteine-induced brain lipid peroxidation: effects of NMDA receptor blockade, antioxidant treatment, and nitric oxide synthase inhibition.	The effect of homocysteine (HCY) on lipid peroxidation (LP), a current mechanism of oxidative neurotoxicity, was investigated in rat brain synaptosomes. LP was assessed by measuring the amount of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) formed from synaptosomal fractions following HCY treatment. Increasing HCY concentrations (5-1000 micro M) enhanced the TBARS formation in brain synaptosomes in a concentration-dependent manner. When compared at equimolar concentrations (100 micro M), the oxidative potency of HCY was lower than that of the oxidant ferrous sulfate, similar to that produced by glutamate (Glu) and the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid, and higher than that of the Glu agonists, kainate and quinolinate. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) completely blocked the HCY-induced LP at concentrations between 5 to 1000 micro M, whereas the well-known antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) was less effective, but still protective against the HCY oxidative toxicity at higher concentrations (400 and 1000 micro M). Three nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NARG) and Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), were also tested on HCY-induced LP at increasing concentrations. Both nonspecific NOS inhibitors (L-NARG and L-NAME) decreased more effectively the HCY-induced LP than did the selective neuronal NOS inhibitor, 7-NI. These results show that submillimolar concentrations of HCY can induce oxidative injury to nerve terminals, and this effect involves NMDAr stimulation, NOS activation, and associated free radicals formation.
The effect of thermal injury and melatonin on incisional wound healing.	Oxygen - free radicals are generated during inflammatory reactions and cause tissue damage when overproduced. The wounds, especially burn injuries which comprise several events, result in generation of reactive oxygen species and impairment of cellular functions as in wound healing process. This experimental study was done in order to investigate whether 20% body surface area, third degree burn injury creates systemic impairment in wound healing. Additionally, our aim was to evaluate the effects of melatonin on incisional cutaneous wound healing.
A high fat diet inhibits delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase and increases lipid peroxidation in mice (Mus musculus).	The aim of this study was examine the effects of high starch (HS) vs. high fat (HF) feeding on blood glycated hemoglobin (GHbA(1c)) level, thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBA-RS) concentration and delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase (delta-ALA-D) activity in mice. The GHbA(1c) level was significantly higher in mice fed the HF diet compared with those fed the HS diet. Hepatic, renal, and cerebral TBA-RS concentrations in mice fed the HF diet were significantly greater than in mice fed the HS diet. In addition, positive correlations were found between the GHbA(1c) and TBA-RS levels for hepatic (P < 0.05; r = 0.46), renal (P < 0.003; r = 0.65), and cerebral (P < 0.001; r = 0.69) tissues. The delta-ALA-D hepatic, renal and cerebral activities of mice fed the HF diet were significantly lower than those of mice fed the HS diet. Furthermore, a negative correlation was found between the GHbA(1c) level and delta-ALA-D activity in hepatic (P < 0.001; r = -0.77), renal (P < 0.007; r = -0.60), and cerebral (P < 0.007; r = -0.60) tissues. The results of this study indicate that consumption of a high fat diet promotes oxidative stress related to hyperglycemia, which in turn can stimulate glycation of proteins leading to delta-ALA-D inhibition in mice.
Effect of coenzyme Q10 on risk of atherosclerosis in patients with recent myocardial infarction.	In a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial, the effects of oral treatment with coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, 120 mg/day), a bioenergetic and antioxidant cytoprotective agent, were compared for 1 year, on the risk factors of atherosclerosis, in 73 (CoQ, group A) and 71 (B vitamin group B) patients after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). After 1 year, total cardiac events (24.6 vs. 45.0%, p < 0.02) including non-fatal infarction (13.7 vs. 25.3%, p < 0.05) and cardiac deaths were significantly lower in the intervention group compared to control group. The extent of cardiac disease, elevation in cardiac enzymes, left ventricular enlargement, previous coronary artery disease and elapsed time from symptom onset to infarction at entry to study showed no significant differences between the two groups. Plasma level of vitamin E (32.4 +/- 4.3 vs. 22.1 +/- 3.6 umol/L) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol (1.26 +/- 0.43 vs. 1.12 +/- 0.32 mmol/L) showed significant (p < 0.05) increase whereas thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, malondialdehyde (1.9 + 0.31 vs. 3.1 + 0.32 pmol/L) and diene conjugates showed significant reduction respectively in the CoQ group compared to control group. Approximately half of the patients in each group (n = 36 vs. 31) were receiving lovastatin (10 mg/day) and both groups had a significant reduction in total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol compared to baseline levels. It is possible that treatment with CoQ10 in patients with recent MI may be beneficial in patients with high risk of atherothrombosis, despite optimal lipid lowering therapy during a follow-up of 1 year. Adverse effect of treatments showed that fatigue (40.8 vs. 6.8%, p < 0.01) was more common in the control group than CoQ group.
Diabetes and mitochondrial oxidative stress: a study using heart mitochondria from the diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rat.	Increasing evidence shows that the overproduction of reactive oxygen species, induced by diabetic hyperglycemia, contributes to the development of several cardiopathologies. The susceptibility of diabetic hearts to oxidative stress, induced in vitro by ADP-Fe2+ in mitochondria, was studied in 12-month-old Goto-Kakizaki rats, a model of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, and normal (non-diabetic) Wistar rats. In terms of lipid peroxidation the oxidative damage was evaluated on heart mitochondria by measuring both the O2 consumption and the concentrations of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. Diabetic rats display a more intense formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and a higher O2 consumption than non-diabetic rats. The oxidative damage, assessed by electron microscopy, was followed by an extensive effect on the volume of diabetic heart mitochondria, as compared with control heart mitochondria. An increase in the susceptibility of diabetic heart mitochondria to oxidative stress can be explained by reduced levels of endogenous antioxidants, so we proceeded in determining alpha-tocopherol, GSH and coenzyme Q content. Although no difference of alpha-tocopherol levels was found in diabetic rats as compared with control rat mitochondria, a significant reduction in GSH (21.5% reduction in diabetic rats) and coenzyme Q levels of diabetic rats was observed. The data suggest that a significant decrease of coenzyme Q9, a potent antioxidant involved in the elimination of mitochondria-generated reactive oxygen species, may be responsible for an increased susceptibility of diabetic heart mitochondria to oxidative damage.
Genistein protects primary cortical neurons from iron-induced lipid peroxidation.	Neuroprotective role of isoflavones in particular genistein might be resulted from their antioxidant activities in addition to their estrogenic actions. In the present study, we investigated effect of genistein on iron-induced free radical reaction in cultured cortical neurons. Thiobarbituric-acid-reactive species (TBARS) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were measured after incubation of the cells with different concentrations of genistein in the absence or presence of iron (12.5 microM) for 24 h. Genistein at 100 microM significantly reduced the iron-induced TBARS, implying that genistein has an inhibitory role on iron-induced lipid peroxidation. Also, genistein (100 microM) led to a relatively higher SOD level than that in iron treatment although no significant difference was found. The findings imply that the antioxidative effect of genistein is partly associated with its neuroprotective function.
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition by L-NAME in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats: impacts on oxidative stress.	The effects of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition by Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) administration on oxidative stress parameters were investigated in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats. Lipid peroxidation as reflected by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) was insignificantly higher in diabetic rats. Plasma NO2+NO3 values (p < 0.05) and erythrocyte CuZn superoxide dismutase (CuZn SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH Px) activities were significantly higher (p < 0.01, p < 0.001, respectively) in diabetic rats. L-NAME administration to diabetic rats caused significantly lower CuZn SOD and GSH Px activities (p < 0.01) and NO2+NO3 values (p < 0.001), whereas a significantly higher GSH level (p < 0.01). TBARS/GSH ratio was significantly higher in diabetic rats than controls (p < 0.05) and significantly lower in L-NAME administered diabetic rats than diabetic rats (p < 0.05). This experimental study highlightens the importance of NOS inhibition by L-NAME in the attenuation of oxidative stress in STZ diabetic rats.
Protective role of carnitine esters against alcohol-induced gastric lesions in rats.	We have investigated in the current study the possible protective effects of two carnitine esters known to have powerful anti-oxidant potential namely, propionyl L-carnitine (PLC) and acetyl L-carnitine (AC) against alcohol-induced gastric lesions in rats. Both drugs were administered as a single oral dose of 200 mg kg(-1) body weight 1h before alcohol intake. Both carnitine esters could protect the gastric mucosa against the injurious effect of absolute alcohol and promote ulcer healing as evidenced from the ulcer index (UI) values. Propionyl L-carnitine prevented alcohol-induced increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), an index of lipid peroxidation. The propionyl carnitine ester also increased the gastric content of reduced glutathione (GSH), besides it increased the enzymatic activities of gastric superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). Likewise, AC did protect against the ulcerating effect of alcohol and mitigate most of the biochemical adverse effects induced by alcohol in gastric mucosa, but to a lesser extent than PLC. Neither PLC nor AC did affect catalase activity in gastric tissue. Based on these observations, one could conclude that carnitine esters, particularly PLC could partly protect gastric mucosa from alcohol-induced acute mucosal injury, and these gastroprotective effects might be probably induced, at least partly, through anti-oxidant mechanisms.
Laryngeal cancer: in relation to oxidative stress.	This study was designed to investigate the oxidative stress parameters in laryngeal cancer and cancer-free adjacent tissues. Lipid peroxidation end product and the endogenous antioxidant components-CuZn superoxide dismutase (CuZn SOD) glutathione peroxidase (GSH Px), glutathione reductase (GSSG Rd) and glutathione (GSH)-were analysed by spectrophotometric and kinetic methods. Laryngeal cancer tissue exhibited higher lipid peroxidation than cancer free adjacent tissue. CuZn SOD and GSH Px activities and GSH level were significantly higher and GSSG Rd activity significantly lower in the cancer tissue. Detection of the antioxidant status may be useful to determine the tumour resistance to therapy, to choose the correct radiotherapy/chemotherapy and to monitor the effectiveness of the therapetic strategy.
Effects of bisphenol A on the metabolisms of active oxygen species in mouse tissues.	We investigated the modifications in endogenous antioxidant capacity, including superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase, oxidative stress index, reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione disulfide (GSSG), and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) in the brain, liver, kidney, and testes of mice under bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine disrupter, treated for 5 days. BPA was administrated intraperitoneally at doses of 25 and 50mg/kg/day. The TBARS levels were not affected by BPA administrations. The SOD activities increased and the catalase activities decreased in the liver after BPA administration. The GPx activity decreased in the kidney. The levels of GSH+GSSG increased in the brain, kidney, liver, and testes, while, the levels of GSH decreased in the testes. SOD converts superoxide into hydrogen peroxide, and catalase and GPx convert hydrogen peroxide into hydrogen oxide. Our results suggest that the injection of BPA induces overproduction of hydrogen peroxide in the mouse organs. Hydrogen peroxide is easily converted to hydroxy radical. The decrease of GSH and the increase of GSSG may be caused by the hydroxy radical. BPA may show its toxicity by increasing hydrogen peroxide.
Association of lipid peroxidation with antenatal betamethasone and oxygen radial disorders in preterm infants.	Premature infants are highly susceptible to 'oxygen radical diseases' (ORD), including bronchopulmonary dysplasia, intraventricular hemorrhage/white matter injury, retinopathy of prematurity, and necrotizing enterocolitis. The incidence of ORD is reduced following antenatal treatment with betamethasone. Oxidant-mediated injury is characterized at the cellular level by peroxidation of lipid membranes. This results in the generation of malondialdehyde (MDA), which can be quantified indirectly by measurement of thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS). There is currently no effective way to quantify the risk for ORD. In this study, we analyzed the correlation of early urinary MDA and TBARS with prenatal betamethasone administration and with the development of ORD.
Oxidative study of patients with total body irradiation: effects of amifostine treatment.	In patients undergoing bone marrow transplant (BMT), reactive oxygen species (ROS) are released as a consequence of the events related to the preparative regimen. Total body irradiation (TBI), which is known to generate ROS, is a routine preconditioning procedure prior to BMT. Several studies have demonstrated that amifostine protects normal tissues. In the present report, we investigated the oxidative state of plasma and erythrocytes in 21 patients with hematological malignancies undergoing TBI. The dose fraction was 160 cGy, twice daily (eight sessions). For ROS detection, we used electron spin resonance spectroscopy and spin-trapping technique. In all, 15 patients received amifostine prior to the irradiation and six did not. No free radical signal was detected in the plasma samples spectrum of 15 amifostine-treated patients, and five of six samples of nontreated patients showed ROS signal. Only two of 15 treated patients had mucositis degree higher than 2, whereas five of six nontreated patients suffered this complication. The average hospitalization days in treated and nontreated patients were 23.5 and 29.7, respectively. This work represents an original observation; we found by direct measurements of free radicals that ROS are released during TBI, and confirmed the amifostine radical scavenger activity.
The effect of one year's swimming exercise on oxidant stress and antioxidant capacity in aged rats.	The effect of exercise on oxidant stress and on alterations in antioxidant defense in elderly has been investigated extensively. However, the impact of regularly performed long-term physical activity starting from adulthood and prolonged up to the old age is not yet clear. We have investigated the changes in the activities of antioxidant enzymes - superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) - and lipid peroxidation in various tissues of rats which had performed (old-trained) or had not performed (old-control) regular swimming exercise for one year. These animals were compared with young-sedentary rats. Increased lipid peroxidation was observed with ageing in all tissues (heart, liver, kidney, striated muscle) and swimming had no additional effect on this elevation of lipid peroxidation. Heart and striated muscle SOD activites, and striated muscle CAT activity increased as a consequence of ageing, whereas kidney and liver CAT activities, as well as GPx activities in kidney, liver, lung and heart were significantly decreased compared to young controls. Lung and heart SOD, liver CAT activities as well as GPx activities in liver, lung and heart were increased significantly in rats which performed exercise during ageing, compared to the old-control group. These findings suggest that lifelong exercise can improve the antioxidant defense in many tissues without constituting any additional oxidant stress.
l-Deprenyl prevents lipid peroxidation and memory deficits produced by cerebral ischemia in rats.	1. The present work shows the results on behavior and on biochemical parameters of l-deprenyl (0.1, 5, and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) administered daily for 5 days to rats submitted to global cerebral ischemia. 2. The transient global ischemia was carried out by clamping the animals bilateral common carotid arteries for 20 min. The parameters studied were memory acquisition and memory retention, locomotor activity and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, as an index of lipid peroxidation. 3. l-Deprenyl treatment significantly improved memory deficits as compared to the ischemic group as measured by the elevated T maze test. A similar result was observed on the passive avoidance test where l-deprenyl improved late but not early memory as compared to the ischemic group. Except for an increased locomotor activity observed in the group treated with 5 mg/kg, no other alteration was detected in this behavioral test. Rats submitted to transient global ischemia (and without l-deprenyl) showed an increase in MDA levels in the hippocampus and the treatment with l-deprenyl (5 or 10 mg/kg) significantly reversed this effect bringing values close to those of the sham-operated controls. A similar profile was observed with nitrite levels. 4. In conclusion, the work showed a significant protective effect of l-deprenyl on memory deficits and lipid hyperperoxidation observed after cerebral ischemia. Possibly, the drug is acting at least in part through its antioxidant activity.
Exposure to bisphenol A during embryonic/fetal life and infancy increases oxidative injury and causes underdevelopment of the brain and testis in mice.	We investigated the modifications in endogenous antioxidant capacity and oxidative damage in the brain, liver, kidney and testis in mice exposed to bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental endocrine disrupter. Mice were exposed to BPA throughout embryonic/fetal life and during lactation by feeding their pregnant/lactating mothers BPA at 5 or 10 microg per milliliter of drinking water. At the age of four weeks, male mice were sacrificed. Exposure to BPA increased the activity of catalase and glutathione peroxidase in the liver and kidney, respectively. It also increased thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the brain, kidney and testis, and decreased the wet weight of the brain, kidney and testis. Our results suggest that exposure to BPA throughout embryonic/fetal life and during infancy induces tissue oxidative stress and peroxidation, ultimately leading to underdevelopment of the brain, kidney and testis.
L-Arginine ameliorates oxidative stress in alloxan-induced experimental diabetes mellitus.	Oxidative stress occurs in diabetic patients and experimental models of diabetes. The ability of l-arginine to ameliorate the oxidative stress and metabolic changes after treatment with alloxan was investigated in rats. Adult male rats were injected intraperitoneally with 100 mg kg(-1) of alloxan to produce experimental oxidative stress characteristic of diabetes mellitus. Hyperglycaemia and hypercholesterolaemia were observed in serum after 7 days of alloxan treatment. This was associated with a depression of glutathione (GSH) concentration as well as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities in the liver and brain. In addition, the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) were significantly elevated, indicating increased lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress in the same tissues. Administration of 100 mg kg(-1) l-arginine for 7 days either before or after alloxan injection significantly ameliorated the oxidative stress evidenced by a lower TBARS and a higher level of the endogenous GSH concentration and SOD and CAT activities than alloxan-treated rats. These effects were paralleled by marked protection and partial prophylaxis against alloxan-induced hyperglycaemia and cholesterolaemia. Thus, these results showed that exogenously administered l-arginine might improve the clinical manifestation of diabetes mellitus and decrease the oxidative stress in the liver and brain. In addition, the study supports the beneficial effect of l-arginine, which might be attributed to its direct, NO-dependent antioxidant capacity and/or NO-independent pathways.
Effects of a dietary oxidized fat on cholesterol in plasma and lipoproteins and the susceptibility of low-density lipoproteins to lipid peroxidation in guinea pigs fed diets with different concentrations of vitamins E and C.	To investigate the effect of a dietary oxidized fat on the concentrations of cholesterol in liver, plasma, and lipoproteins and the susceptibility of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) to lipid peroxidation, and to explore the effects of vitamins E and C, male guinea pigs were divided into five groups. Four groups were fed diets with an oxidized fat supplemented with 35 or 175 mg alpha-tocopherol equivalents/kg and 300 or 1000 mg of vitamin C/kg for 29 days. One group, used as a control, was fed the same basal diet with fresh fat with 35 mg alpha-tocopherol equivalents/kg and 300 mg of vitamin C/kg. Guinea pigs fed the oxidized-fat diets, irrespective of dietary vitamin E and C concentrations, had significantly lower concentrations of total cholesterol in the liver and a lower concentration of cholesterol in LDL than the control animals fed the fresh fat. According to the lag time before onset of lipid peroxidation, LDL of guinea pigs fed the oxidized-fat diet with 35 mg alpha-tocopherol equivalents and 300 mg vitamin C/kg were significantly more susceptible to copper-induced lipid peroxidation than those of guinea pigs fed the fresh fat diet. Within the groups fed the oxidized fat diets, increasing the dietary vitamin E concentration from 35 to 175 mg/kg significantly (p < 0.05) and increasing the dietary vitamin C concentration from 300 to 1000 mg/kg in tendency (p < 0.10) reduced the susceptibility of LDL to oxidation. LDL of guinea pigs fed the oxidized fat diets with 175 mg alpha-tocopherol equivalents/kg were even more resistant to oxidation than LDL of guinea pigs fed the fresh diet. In conclusion, the study shows that dietary oxidized fat influences the cholesterol metabolism and the susceptibility of LDL to lipid peroxidation; the latter can be modified by dietary vitamins E and C.
Oxidative stress responses in longnose sucker (Catostomus catostomus) exposed to pulp and paper mill and municipal sewage effluents.	While recent evidence indicates that the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and associated oxidative damage are frequently observed in fish populations with exposure to pulp and paper mill effluents, the potential for ROS generation from municipal sewage effluents has not been addressed. This study investigates the utility of measures of oxidative stress in delineating the effects of both pulp and paper mill and municipal sewage discharges. Longnose sucker (Catostomus catostomus) were collected below three pulp and paper mill and two municipal sewage effluent discharges over a 3-year period within the Wapiti and Athabasca River systems in northern Alberta. Biochemical responses in longnose sucker varied between the two rivers systems, with more pronounced changes occurring within the Wapiti River. Of the suite of biochemical parameters examined, fatty acyl-CoA oxidase (FAO) activity was the most sensitive indicator of pulp and paper mill exposure, but was only infrequently induced with exposure to municipal sewage effluent. Hepatic and gonadal 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, lipid hydroperoxides, and hepatic free iron were less consistently elevated with exposure to pulp and paper mill effluent than FAO activity, and were also only infrequently altered with sewage effluent exposure. Hepatic ascorbic acid, liver somatic index, and condition factor were consistently altered with exposure to both sewage and pulp and paper mill effluents. While specific biochemical and organismal responses varied with effluents and time, the collective suite of oxidative stress endpoints proved to be useful tools in identifying relative influences of municipal sewage and pulp and paper mill effluent on fish populations in adjacent receiving waters.
Erythrocyte antioxidant enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation in patients with types IIb and IV hyperlipoproteinemias.	We measured lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzymes in erythrocytes of types IIb and IV hyperlipoproteinemic (HLP) human subjects in comparison with age-matched controls. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), a measure of lipid peroxidation, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione reductase (GR), and catalase (CAT) were determined in erythrocytes. We also measured lipid parameters including triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C), LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein AI, and apolipoprotein B, and antioxidant related substances such as serum albumin, free iron, ferritin, ceruloplasmin. Thirty-two subjects (females 15, males 17) with type IIb (the mean age 45.6+/-8 [S.E.]), 34 with type IV (females 16, males 18) (the mean age 47+/-10 [S.E.]), and 36 normolipidemic voluntary subjects (females 18, males 18) (the mean age 46+/-8 [S.E.]) were included in the study. Erythrocytes were prepared by classical washing method (0.9% NaCl) from venous blood samples. The mean TBARS levels in plasma and erythrocyte suspensions were found to be significantly higher in both types IIb and IV hyperlipoproteinemics. Erythrocyte SOD and GSH-Px activities were decreased but erythrocyte GR activity did not change in both types IIb and IV hyperlipoproteinemics. Erythrocyte CAT activity was decreased in type IIb, but it was increased in type IV hyperlipoproteinemics. Erythrocyte SOD activity was negatively correlated with plasma TG level, whereas plasma free iron was positively correlated with plasma TBARS level in type IV hyperlipoproteinemics. These results suggest the presence of oxidative injury in patients with type IIb or IV hyperlipoproteinemia, and that the responses of erythrocyte antioxidant enzymes to oxidant stress are different in these conditions.
Increased oxidative stress following acute and chronic high altitude exposure.	The generation of reactive oxygen species is typically associated with hyperoxia and ischemia reperfusion. Recent evidence has suggested that increased oxidative stress may occur with hypoxia. We hypothesized that oxidative stress would be increased in subjects exposed to high altitude hypoxia. We studied 28 control subjects living in Lima, Peru (sea level), at baseline and following 48 h exposure to high altitude (4300 m). To assess the effects of chronic altitude exposure, we studied 25 adult males resident in Cerro de Pasco, Peru (altitude 4300 m). We also studied 27 subjects living in Cerro de Pasco who develop excessive erythrocytosis (hematocrit > 65%) and chronic mountain sickness. Acute high altitude exposure led to increased urinary F(2)-isoprostane, 8-iso PGF(2 alpha) (1.31 +/- 0.8 microg/g creatinine versus 2.15 +/- 1.1, p = 0.001) and plasma total glutathione (1.29 +/- 0.10 micromol versus 1.37 +/- 0.09, p = 0.002), with a trend to increased plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) (59.7 +/- 36 pmol/mg protein versus 63.8 +/- 27, p = NS). High altitude residents had significantly elevated levels of urinary 8-iso PGF(2 alpha) (1.3 +/- 0.8 microg/g creatinine versus 4.1 +/- 3.4, p = 0.007), plasma TBARS (59.7 +/- 36 pmol/mg protein versus 85 +/- 28, p = 0.008), and plasma total glutathione (1.29 +/- 0.10 micromol versus 1.55 +/- 0.19, p < 0.0001) compared to sea level. High altitude residents with excessive erythrocytosis had higher levels of oxidative stress compared to high altitude residents with normal hematological adaptation. In conclusion, oxidative stress is increased following both acute exposure to high altitude without exercise and with chronic residence at high altitude.
A protective effect of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate in a rat model of liver cirrhosis.	Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation, proinflammatory cytokines, and reactive oxygen species have been implicated as mediators of liver injury and fibrogenesis. We have shown recently that pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), an antioxidant and inhibitor of NF-kappaB activation, was protective in a rat model of acute liver failure. The aim of the present study was to examine the efficacy of PDTC in a chronic rat model of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced hepatic fibrosis.
Activity of antioxidant enzymes and concentration of lipid peroxidation products in selected tissues of mice of different ages, both healthy and melanoma-bearing.	The activity of antioxidant enzymes and the concentration of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) as indicator of oxidative damage were determined in selected tissues of healthy mice and transplanted B16 melanoma-bearing mice with increasing age. A total of 60 male mice were divided into 6 groups. Groups 1, 2 and 3 consisted of tumor-free, healthy mice aged 1, 9 and 16 months, respectively (average life span: 2 years). Groups 4, 5 and 6 consisted of mice of the same age as the healthy mice, but given intraperitoneally 10(6) cells of B16 melanoma for 2 weeks. An increase in the concentration of MDA was found in all the studied tissues (brain, liver, lungs, erythrocytes) and blood plasma of 16-month old healthy mice compared with the younger ones. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) was elevated in the brain and the activity of CAT and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in the liver of aged healthy mice. The transplantation of melanoma caused an increase of the concentration of MDA and of the activity of all studied enzymes in all tissues. This elevation was most pronounced in the youngest mice group 4 and was higher than in the oldest healthy group 3. Thus, these early changes of the "(anti-)oxidative status" in the investigated tissues caused by the tumor development have similarities with age-associated alterations of healthy mice, especially in regard to MDA in all tissues or SOD and CAT in brain.
Iron supplementation in experimental hyperthyroidism: effects on oxidative stress in skeletal muscle tissue.	This study was designed to investigate the effects of iron supplementation on the parameters of oxidative stress in the skeletal muscle tissue of hyperthyroidism induced rats. Hyperthyroidism was found to cause an increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and copper zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu, Zn SOD) activity, but decreases in the glutathione-peroxidase (GSH Px) activity and glutathione (GSH). Iron supplementation caused an increase in TBARS and a decrease in GSH. Iron supplementation in hyperthyroid rats attenuated the hyperthyroid state, but lowered the plasma ferritin level, which is considered an indicator of thyroid hormone action. Iron supplementation caused no additional increase in the TBARS in hyperthyroid rats, ameliorated the decrease in GSH content and abolished the induction of Cu, Zn SOD. Our findings suggested no increase, but a decrease, in the risk of oxidative stress in iron supplemented hyperthyroid rats. Whether supplementation of iron would have similar effects in humans should be further investigated in clinical studies.
Differential susceptibility of fish and rat liver cells to oxidative stress and cytotoxicity upon exposure to prooxidants.	Species differences in the ability to cope with pollutant-mediated oxidative stress can provide insight into the mechanisms behind both the mode of toxicity of a specific chemical as well as the different ways in which an organism may deal with such stressors. In this study, the effects of exposure to model prooxidants on parameters of oxidative stress were investigated in liver cells from both fish (PLHC-1) and rat (H4IIE). The goals of this study were to compare the oxidative stress response of these cell lines and to assess the relative utility of several different measures of oxidative stress as signals preceding cytotoxicity. Cellular response to two model prooxidants, copper and Fenton reagents (ferrous sulfate plus hydrogen peroxide), was assessed by measuring cytotoxicity, lipid peroxidation, total glutathione (GSHT), and percent glutathione disulfide (%GSSG). Additionally, transcriptional activation of an antioxidant response element (ARE) reporter gene was measured using the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) assay in response to these chemicals. In general, the fish cells were more sensitive than rat cells to prooxidants, and the assays for lipid peroxidation and ARE reporter gene activation were more sensitive for measuring oxidative stress than GSH or %GSSG. Fish cells were significantly (P < 0.0001) more sensitive to copper sulfate and Fenton reagent induced oxidative stress, as measured through lipid peroxidation and ARE reporter gene transcriptional activation. Copper sulfate and Fenton reagents caused a two-fold increase in %GSSG in both cell lines. Basal levels of GSHT were higher in the HII4E cells than the PLHC-1 cells, and Fenton reagents significantly reduced GSHT in fish cells but showed no effect on the rat cells. Significant differences were also observed in the cytotoxicity of the test chemicals to both cell lines, with the fish cells demonstrating a higher level of cell death. Lipid peroxidation and ARE transcriptional activation appeared to better reflect subsequent cytotoxicity than a change in GSHT or %GSSG. These results suggest that HII4E (rat) cells are more protected from oxidative stress than PLHC-1 (fish) cells. Additional studies are addressing oxidative stress-mediated signal transduction pathways that may play a role in the differential responses of these cells lines.
Lipid peroxidation as the additional indicator of transport stress in broilers.	Stressful conditions (transport, temperature fluctuations, infections and excessive crowding) lead to dysfunction of immunological mechanisms in birds. They influence the lipid balance what manifests itself through the increase of the malonodialdehyde (MDA) level, reacting with the 2-thiobarbituric acid (TBA), what is an indicator of lipid peroxidation. In the case of birds, the classical indicator of the stressful reaction is the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio (H/L), which changes depending on the stress intensity. The present study defined the influence of road transport on lipid peroxidation process as the additional indicator of stress in broilers. The investigation was conducted on 10 broilers Ross 308 (39 days old), which were transported on the distance of 70 km. The birds were clinically healthy, free of parasites and free of Salmonella spp. infection in the beginning of the experiment. The determination of the TBA-reactive substances (TBARS) in serum was conducted according to the method proposed by Ledwozyw et al. (1986). The analysis of the results with a Student t-test showed the statistically significant difference (P < or = 0.05) in the TBA-reactive substances level before and directly after the birds transportation.
Acteoside protects endothelial cells against free radical-induced oxidative stress.	The protective effect of acteoside against membrane lipid oxidation and free radical-mediated impairment of endothelial function was investigated. Results showed that iron-mediated oxidative modification of the cell membrane in cultured bovine pulmonary endothelial cells (PAECs) was significantly attenuated by acteoside as measured by thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Fenton's reagent (H2O2/Fe2+) was used to generate hydroxyl radicals (*OH) and induce oxidative stress. Acteoside not only effectively minimized the loss of cell viability induced by hydroxyl radicals in cultured endothelial cells but also countered the free radical-induced destruction of the endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine in rat aorta. Furthermore, acteoside showed a dose-dependent scavenging effect of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) radicals and appeared to be the most efficient in comparison with the four reference compounds (alpha-tocopherol, vitamin C, probucol and resveratrol). These data suggested that acteoside protects the cell from oxidative stress and that scavenging of free radicals could be a key mechanism contributing to the cytoprotective effect of acteoside.
A comparative study of albendazole and mebendazole-induced, time-dependent oxidative stress.	Albendazole (ABZ) and mebendazole (MBZ) are two benzimidazole-derived drugs that show remarkable antihelmintic activity and are widely used in the treatment and control of helminths. Some antihelmintic drugs seem to act through the deleterious generation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (ROS and RNS, respectively) to which helminths have no, or relatively low, antioxidant defences (AD), when compared to aerobic organisms. The main objective of the present study consisted of the evaluation of the effect of both drugs on the AD and on some oxidative stress indicators in the host liver. Adult, male, Wistar rats were treated with ABZ or MBZ at doses of 40 mg/kg for different periods of time (2, 4, 8 and 10 days). After treatment, the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione S-transferase, as well as the concentrations of TBARS, reduced glutathione, oxidized glutathione and total glutathione, were evaluated in rat hepatocytes. The serum nitrogen monoxide, usually known as nitric oxide (NO) levels, was also measured. The results showed that both drugs provoked an oxidative stress condition, demonstrated through the elevation of TBARS contents and through the decrease of some AD. Moreover, ABZ showed to be a strong ROS and RNS generator while MBZ showed a low and transient effect on ROS generation. It is suggested that MBZ could be the first-choice drug in the treatment of helminthiasis because it shares a similar therapeutic indication with ABZ, and because it causes only a mild oxidative stress to the host.
Antioxidant efficacy of black pepper (Piper nigrum L.) and piperine in rats with high fat diet induced oxidative stress.	The present study was aimed to explore the effect of black pepper (Piper nigrum L.) on tissue lipid peroxidation, enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants in rats fed a high-fat diet. Thirty male Wistar rats (95-115 g) were divided into 5 groups. They were fed standard pellet diet, high-fat diet (20% coconut oil, 2% cholesterol and 0.125% bile salts), high-fat diet plus black pepper (0.25 g or 0.5 g/kg body weight), high-fat diet plus piperine (0.02 g/kg body weight) for a period of 10 weeks. Significantly elevated levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and significantly lowered activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the liver, heart, kidney, intestine and aorta were observed in rats fed the high fat diet as compared to the control rats. Simultaneous supplementation with black pepper or piperine lowered TBARS and CD levels and maintained SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, and GSH levels to near those of control rats. The data indicate that supplementation with black pepper or the active principle of black pepper, piperine, can reduce high-fat diet induced oxidative stress to the cells.
Mutagenicity of sediment and biomarkers of oxidative stress in fish from aquatic environments under the influence of tanneries.	The mutagenicity of interstitial water and organic extracts from the sediments in the Cadeia and Feitoria Rivers, RS, Brazil, were evaluated by Salmonella microsuspension bioassay using TA97a, TA98, TA100 and TA102 strains, in the absence and presence of S9 mix. At the contaminated site, the mutagenic responses for interstitial water, suggested the presence of frameshift and base pair substitution mutagens, including oxidative substances. Organic extracts presented direct or indicative mutagenesis to the TA97a, TA98 and TA100 strains. In general, an exogenous metabolic systems decreased the mutagenicity of the samples. High concentrations of total chromium found in the sediment and interstitial water as well as total mercury in the sediment of the contaminated site, when compared to the control area, may help explain the mutagenic results. The livers of Gymnogeophagus gymnogenys collected in this impacted area, compared to a non-polluted site, were analyzed for oxidative stress parameters. Compared to the controls, there was a significant increase in the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) at levels of substances reactive to thiobarbituric acid (TBARS), and in the chemiluminescence of hepatic cells in fish in the polluted area. The concentration of cytochromes P450 and b5 decreased drastically in the fish at the polluted site, while the catalase activity did not change. It was possible to correlate the biological changes in the fish with the presence of mutagenic compounds in sediment and interstitial water in this area.
Depressed fatigue-induced oxidative stress in chronic hypoxemic humans and rats.	It was already documented that acute hypoxemia reduces the oxidative stress following static as well as dynamic handgrip bouts in humans. Then, we examined if chronic hypoxemia could produce the same effect in patients suffering from chronic respiratory insufficiency. In rats, we studied the respective consequence of a one-month exposure to normobaric hypoxia on two muscles (soleus, SOL, and extensor digitorum longus, EDL) which have high and low aerobic metabolism, respectively. Compared to healthy humans, the resting level of erythrocyte reduced glutathione (GSH) was significantly lower in chronic hypoxemic patients, and after a handgrip contraction sustained at 50% of maximal until exhaustion the GSH level and plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) did not vary. A 20-min period of oxygen supplementation partly restored the post-handgrip oxidative stress. Compared to control rats, SOL muscle of hypoxemic animals had lower intra-muscular resting level of GSH; after a 3-min muscle stimulation (MS) leading to fatigue, TBARS did not vary in SOL and EDL and the GSH decrease was absent in SOL whereas it persisted in EDL. We concluded that chronic hypoxemia depressed the fatigue-induced oxidative stress, the effects prevailing in muscles having a high oxygen demand.
Induction of heme oxygenase-1 expression inhibits platelet-dependent thrombosis.	Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) plays a key role in protecting tissue from oxidative stress. Although some studies implicate HO-1 in modulating thrombosis after vascular injury, the impact of HO-1 on the rate of clot formation in vivo is poorly defined. This study examined the potential function of HO-1 in regulating platelet-dependent arterial thrombosis. Platelet-rich thrombi were induced in C57BL/6J mice by applying 10% ferric chloride to the exposed carotid artery. Mean occlusion time of wild-type mice (n = 10) was 14.6 +/- 1.0 min versus 12.9 +/- 0.6 min for HO-1-/- mice (n = 11, p = 0.17). However, after challenge with hemin, mean occlusion time was significantly longer in wild-type mice (16.3 +/- 1.2 min, n = 15) than HO-1-/- mice (12.0 +/- 1.0 min, n = 9; p = 0.021). Hemin administration induced an approximately twofold increase in oxidative stress, measured as plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that hemin induced a robust increase in HO-1 expression within the carotid arterial wall. Ex vivo blood clotting within a collagen-coated perfusion chamber was studied to determine whether the accelerated thrombosis observed in HO-1-/- mice was contributed to by effects on the blood itself. Under basal conditions, mean clot formation during perfusion of blood over collagen did not differ between wild-type mice and HO-1-/- mice. However, after hemin challenge, mean clot formation was significantly increased in HO-1-/- mice compared with wild-type controls. These results suggest that, under basal conditions, HO-1 does not exert a significant effect on platelet-dependent clot formation in vivo. However, under conditions that stimulate HO-1 production, platelet-dependent thrombus formation is inhibited by HO-1. Enhanced HO-1 expression in response to oxidative stress may represent an adaptive response mechanism to down-regulate platelet activation under prothrombotic conditions.
Involvement of oxidative stress in the profibrotic action of aldosterone. Interaction wtih the renin-angiotension system.	The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of angiotensin II and oxidative stress on cardiovascular damage induced by chronic subcutaneous aldosterone infusion in the absence of salt loading.
In vivo and in vitro effects of homocysteine on Na+, K+-ATPase activity in parietal, prefrontal and cingulate cortex of young rats.	In the present study we determined the effect of chronic administration of homocysteine on Na+,K+-ATPase activity in synaptic membranes from parietal, prefrontal and cingulate cortex of young rats. We also studied the in vitro effect of homocysteine on this enzyme activity and on some oxidative stress parameters, namely thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS) and total radical-trapping antioxidant potential (TRAP) in the same cerebral structures. For the in vivo studies, we induced elevated levels of homocysteine in blood (500 microM), comparable to those of human homocystinuria, and in brain (60 nmol/g wet tissue) of young rats by injecting subcutaneously homocysteine (0.3-0.6 micromol/g of body weight) twice a day at 8 h intervals from the 6th to the 28th postpartum day. Controls received saline in the same volumes. Rats were killed 12 h after the last injection. Chronic administration of homocysteine significantly decreased (50%) Na+,K+-ATPase activity in parietal, increased (36%) in prefrontal and did not alter in cingulate cortex of young rats. In vitro homocysteine decreased Na+,K+-ATPase activity and TRAP and increased TBA-RS in all cerebral structures studied. It is proposed that the alteration of Na+,K+-ATPase and induction of oxidative stress by homocysteine in cerebral cortex may be one of the mechanisms related to the neuronal dysfunction observed in human homocystinuria.
Evaluation of the mechanism underlying the inhibitory effect of guanidinoacetate on brain Na+, K+-ATPase activity.	Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency (GAMT-deficiency) is an inherited neurometabolic disorder clinically characterized by epilepsy and mental retardation and biochemically by accumulation of guanidinoacetate (GAA) and depletion of creatine. Although the neurological symptoms are predominant, the pathogenesis of the brain dysfunction in this disorder is not yet established. In the present study we investigated the in vitro effect of GAA on Na+, K+-ATPase and Mg2+-ATPase activities in synaptic plasma membrane from hippocampus of young rats. Results showed that GAA significantly inhibited Na+, K+-ATPase activity without affecting Mg2+-ATPase activity. We also evaluated the effect of glutathione (GSH), trolox, Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and taurine (Tau) on the inhibition elicited by GAA on Na+, K+-ATPase activity. GSH, trolox, L-NAME and Tau per se did not alter Na+, K+-ATPase activity. However, L-NAME and taurine prevented the inhibitory effect of GAA on this enzyme activity. Our findings suggest that the inhibition of Na+, K+-ATPase activity caused by GAA is possibly mediated by nitric oxide (NO) formation and/or synaptic membrane alteration. The present data may contribute to the understanding of the neurological dysfunction characteristic of GAMT-deficient patients.
Effect of exogenous leptin administration on high fat diet induced oxidative stress.	The objective of the present study was to explore the tissue lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in mice receiving exogenous leptin along with high fat diet for a period of 6 weeks. Significantly elevated levels of tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and significantly lowered levels of glutathione and its related enzymes were observed in the liver, heart and kidney of mice fed with a high fat diet as compared with the control mice fed with a standard pellet diet. Subsequent to the treatment with high fat diet (ie., after the initial period of 30 days) exogenous leptin (230 microg kg(-1) body weight) was simultaneously administered along with the regular high fat diet every alternate day for 15 days. Leptin administration significantly lowered the tissue levels of TBARS, CD and elevated the activities of reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) in both the control and high fat diet fed mice. Thus leptin supplementation was found to be effective in attenuating high fat diet induced oxidative stress.
Elevated exhalation of hydrogen peroxide and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in patients with community acquired pneumonia.	Bacterial pneumonia involves influx of activated phagocytes into distal airways. These cells release oxidants including H2O2, that may be exhaled or induce peroxidative damage to lung tissues with formation of thiobarbituric reactive substances (TBARs).
Effects of prenatal nicotine exposure on primate brain development and attempted amelioration with supplemental choline or vitamin C: neurotransmitter receptors, cell signaling and cell development biomarkers in fetal brain regions of rhesus monkeys.	Studies in developing rodents indicate that nicotine is a neuroteratogen that disrupts brain development by stimulating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that control neural cell replication and differentiation. We administered nicotine to pregnant Rhesus monkeys from gestational day 30 through 160 by continuous infusion, achieving maternal plasma levels comparable to those in smokers (30 ng/ml). Fetal brain regions and peripheral tissues were examined for nAChR subtypes, other neurotransmitter receptors, and indices of cell signaling and cell damage. Nicotine evoked nAChR upregulation, but with distinct regional disparities indicative of selective stimulatory responses. Similarly, indices of cell loss (reduced DNA), cell size and neuritic outgrowth (protein/DNA and membrane/total protein ratios) were distinct for each region and did not necessarily follow the rank order of nAChR upregulation, suggesting the involvement of additional mechanisms such as oxidative stress. We then attempted to offset the adverse effects of nicotine with standard dietary supplements known to interact with nicotine. By itself, choline elicited nicotine-like actions commensurate with its promotion of cholinergic neurotransmission. When given in combination with nicotine, choline protected some regions from damage but worsened nicotine's effects in other regions. Similarly, Vitamin C supplementation had mixed effects, increasing nAChR responses while providing protection from cell damage in the caudate, the brain region most susceptible to oxidative stress. Our results indicate that nicotine elicits neurodevelopmental damage that is highly selective for different brain regions, and that dietary supplements ordinarily thought to be neuroprotectant may actually worsen some of the adverse effects of nicotine on the fetal brain.
Protective role of Scoparia dulcis plant extract on brain antioxidant status and lipidperoxidation in STZ diabetic male Wistar rats.	The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of aqueous extract of Scoparia dulcis on the occurrence of oxidative stress in the brain of rats during diabetes by measuring the extent of oxidative damage as well as the status of the antioxidant defense system.
Scoparia dulcis, a traditional antidiabetic plant, protects against streptozotocin induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.	Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. The experiments were performed on normal and experimental male Wistar rats treated with Scoparia dulcis plant extract (SPEt). The effect of SPEt was tested on streptozotocin (STZ) treated Rat insulinoma cell lines (RINm5F cells) and isolated islets in vitro. Administration of an aqueous extract of Scoparia dulcis by intragastric intubation (po) at a dose of 200 mg/kg body weight significantly decreased the blood glucose and lipid peroxidative marker thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) with significant increase in the activities of plasma insulin, pancreatic superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and reduced glutathione (GSH) in streptozotocin diabetic rats at the end of 15 days treatment. Streptozotocin at a dose of 10 mug/mL evoked 6-fold stimulation of insulin secretion from isolated islets indicating its insulin secretagogue activity. The extract markedly reduced the STZ-induced lipidperoxidation in RINm5F cells. Further, SPEt protected STZ-mediated cytotoxicity and nitric oxide (NO) production in RINm5F cells. Treatment of RINm5F cells with 5 mM STZ and 10 mug of SPEt completely abrogated apoptosis induced by STZ, suggesting the involvement of oxidative stress. Flow cytometric assessment on the level of intracellular peroxides using fluorescent probe 2'7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCF-DA) confirmed that STZ (46%) induced an intracellular oxidative stress in RINm5F cells, which was suppressed by SPEt (21%). In addition, SPEt also reduced (33%) the STZ-induced apoptosis (72%) in RINm5F cells indicating the mode of protection of SPEt on RIN m5Fcells, islets, and pancreatic beta-cell mass (histopathological observations). Present study thus confirms antihyperglycemic effect of SPEt and also demonstrated the consistently strong antioxidant properties of Scoparia dulcis used in the traditional medicine.
Antioxidant effect of EGb 761 on hydrogen peroxide-induced lipoperoxidation of G-6-PD deficient erythrocytes.	In order to reduce the haemolytic susceptibility of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficient erythrocytes, Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) and vitamin E (vit E) were used as antioxidant agents and their effects compared. The erythrocyte suspensions from control and G-6-PD deficient patients were subjected to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) incubation for 1 h. The produced thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) levels measured as nmol/g Hb were compared with those of the erythrocytes administered 250 microg/mL EGb 761 or vit E previously or concomitantly with H2O2. Preincubation with EGb 761 reduced the TBARS levels from 317.14 +/- 25.27 to 160.09 +/- 21.97 nmol/g Hb in controls and from 348.24 +/- 7.79 to 205.60 +/- 14.22 nmol/g Hb in deficient erythrocytes. Concomitant application of EGb 761 with H2O2 resulted in similar but less reduction. The antioxidative effects of vitamin E were comparable to those of EGb 761. Contrary to the results obtained from oxidant conditions, the antioxidant characteristics of EGb 761 and vitamin E were not observed when they were applied directly to the erythrocytes without oxidative stress. The findings demonstrate that irrespective of administration time, EGb 761 significantly reduced TBARS levels in the erythrocytes of control and G-6-PD deficient patients subjected to oxidative stress.
Effects of age on reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia and possible protection of diphenyl diselenide.	Acute reserpine administration produces persistent oral dyskinesia in rats, an alleged animal model of tardive dyskinesia. The pathophysiology of the syndrome remains unclear, but experimental evidence suggests that neurodegeneration in the basal ganglia caused by oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in TD development. In this paper, the authors examined whether diphenyl diselenide, an organochalcogen with antioxidant properties, changes the behavioral and neurochemical effect of acute reserpine administration in old rats. The basal vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) and facial twitching (FT) duration was higher in old rats (15 months of age), when compared with adult rats (3 months of age; 0.01). Basal thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) levels were increased only in the cortex of old rats, when compared to adult animals (p < .05). Reserpine injection (1mg/kg, s.c. for 3 days every other day) caused a significant increase on the tongue protusion (TP) frequency (p < .01) and facial twitching duration (p < .01) in old rats. Diphenyl diselenide (10 mg/kg, i.p. for 4 days, starting the day before reserpine) reversed only reserpine-induced TP increase (p < .01). Reserpine caused a significant increase in striatal TBARS levels (p < .01) and diselenide reversed (p < .01) the effect of reserpine on TBARS levels in the striatum. In subcortical parts, isolated reserpine or diselenide administration significantly increased (p < .01) the levels of TBARS, while simultaneous treatment with reserpine and diselenide reverted this effect (p < .01). The results of the present study confirmed the effects of age on orofacial dyskinesia. Diphenyl diselenide, an organochalcogen with antioxidant properties, showed modest effects on reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia. However, additional studies are still necessary to establish whether this compound can be considered an effective antioxidant in other models of neurotoxicity.
Protective effects of exogenous bilirubin on ischemia-reperfusion injury in the isolated, perfused rat kidney.	Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is induced as an adaptive and protective response to tissue injury. HO-1 degrades heme into carbon monoxide (CO) and biliverdin; the latter is then converted to bilirubin. These reaction products have powerful antiapoptotic and antioxidant effects. Manipulation of the HO-1 system by administration of micromolar doses of exogenous CO or bilirubin has been performed in several organ systems, but the dose-related effects of these reaction products have not been investigated in the kidney. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and dose-related protective effects of 1 or 10 muM bilirubin flush before a 20-min period of warm ischemia. In an effort to minimize interactions with other chemical messengers or organ systems, we elected to use an isolated, perfused rat kidney model with an acellular, oxygenated perfusate. Using this model, we demonstrated that bilirubin treatment resulted in significant improvements in renal vascular resistance, urine output, glomerular filtration rate, tubular function, and mitochondrial integrity after ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). Beneficial effects on organ viability were achieved most consistently with a dose of 10 muM bilirubin. We conclude that the protective effects of HO-1 activity during IRI in the kidney are mediated, at least in part, by bilirubin and that pretreatment with micromolar doses of bilirubin may offer a simple and inexpensive method to improve renal function after IRI.
Lipid peroxidation and antioxidants status in patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma in India.	The levels of lipid peroxidation products (TBARS), non-enzymatic antioxidants and enzymatic antioxidants activity were investigated in plasma and erythrocytes of twenty clinically diagnosed stage II papillary thyroid cancer patients and an equal number of age and sex matched healthy subjects. An increase in the levels of lipid peroxidation products, decrease in non-enzymatic antioxidants levels and enzymatic antioxidant activities in plasma and erythrocytes were detected in papillary thyroid cancer patients as compared to healthy subjects. Impairment in antioxidant defence mechanisms are responsible for enhanced lipid peroxidation observed in plasma and erythrocytes of papillary thyroid cancer patients.
Restoration of antioxidants by ethanolic Tinospora cordifolia in alloxan-induced diabetic Wistar rats.	The present study investigates the effect of oral administration of an alcoholic extract of Tinospora cordifolia roots on antioxidant defence in alloxan-induced diabetes in rats. A significant increase in the concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in brain along with a decrease in heart was observed in diabetic rats. Decreased concentration of glutathione (GSH) and decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in heart and brain of diabetic rats were also noted. Alcoholic Tinospora cordifolia root extract (TCREt) administered at a dose of 100 mg/kg to diabetic rats orally for six weeks normalized the antioxidant status of heart and brain. The effect of T. cordifolia root extract was more prominent than glibenclamide (600 microg/kg). Insulin (6 units/kg) restored all the parameters to normal status.
Cigarette smoke negatively and dose-dependently affects the biosynthetic pathway of the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid series in human mammary epithelial cells.	Maternal smoking during pregnancy has been associated with a reduced content of n-3 long-chain PUFA (LC-PUFA) in breast milk, thereby reducing the intake of key nutrients by the infants. We postulated that the mammary gland is affected by maternal smoking in the process of n-3 LC-PUFA secretion into milk. This prompted us to investigate the effects of cigarette smoke on the synthesis of n-3 LC-PUFA in vitro by using a line of healthy epithelial cells from the human mammary gland, MCF-10A. Cells were exposed to cigarette smoke under controlled conditions by adding to the medium aliquots of horse serum containing smoke components, as analyzed by GC-MS. The major findings concern the inhibition of both the conversion of the precursor 14C-ALA (alpha-linolenic acid) to n-3 LC-PUFA and of the A5 desaturation step (assessed by HPLC analysis with radiodetection of n-3 FAME) following exposure to minimal doses of smoke-enriched serum, and the dose-dependent relationship of these effects. The data indicate that exposure to cigarette smoke negatively affects the synthesis of n-3 LC-PUFA from the precursor in mammary gland cells.
A single dose of erythropoietin attenuates lipid peroxidation in experimental liver ischemia-reperfusion injury in the rat fetus.	The aim of the study was investigate the effectiveness of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-Hu-EPO) in attenuating the severity of experimental liver ischemic injury in fetal rats.
Effects of taurine in glucose and taurine administration.	Taurine has several biological processes such as hypoglycemic action, antioxidation, detoxification, etc. To assess the effect of taurine administration on the guinea pigs with hyperglycemia, blood glucose, C-peptide levels together with morphologic alterations in the pancreatic ultrastructure were investigated in terms of hypoglycemic action and malondialdehyde and total sulfhydryl group levels with regard to oxidation-antioxidation relation. Animals were divided into four groups of six. Glucose supplementation group was administrated a single dose of glucose (400 mg/kg, i.p.) injection. Glucose and taurine supplementation group was administrated glucose treatment (a single dose, 400 mg/kg, i.p.) following taurine (a single dose, 200 mg/kg, i.p.). Taurine and glucose supplementation group was administered taurine treatment (a single dose, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) following glucose treatment (a single dose, 400 mg/kg, i.p.). Control animals received no treatment. Blood samples were collected at the end of the experiments for the determination of glucose, C-peptide (indicator of insulin secretion), lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances), and total sulfhydryl groups levels. Pancreatic tissue samples were then collected and processed for transmission electron microscopy. The findings showed that glucose supplementation following taurine administration significantly decreased blood glucose level by increasing C-peptide level and the pancreatic secretion stimulated morphologically and insignificantly changed thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and total sulfhydryl group levels. These observations suggest that taurine administration may be useful in hyperglycemia because of its hypoglycemic and protective effects.
Protective effect of triflusal and its main metabolite HTB in an in vitro model of anoxia-reoxygenation in rat brain slices: comparison with acetylsalicylic and salicylic acids.	Triflusal is a fluorinated derivative of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) with demonstrated antithrombotic activity. Recently, evidence for a neuroprotective effect has been obtained. The aim of this study was to compare the neuroprotective effects of the main metabolite of triflusal (2-hydroxy-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic acid, HTB) and the ASA metabolite salicylic acid (SA) in an in vitro model of anoxia-reoxygenation in rat brain slices. Rat brain slices (n=10 per group) were subjected to a period of anoxia followed by 180 min reoxygenation. We measured oxidative stress parameters (lipid peroxidation, glutathione system), prostaglandins (PGE(2)), nitric oxide pathway activity (NO) (nitrites+nitrates, constitutive and inducible NO synthase activity) and LDH efflux, a biochemical marker of cell death. Various concentrations (10, 100 and 1,000 microM) of triflusal, HTB, ASA or SA were tested. Triflusal at 10, 100 and 1,000 microM decreased LDH efflux in rat brain slices after anoxia/reoxygenation by 24%, 35% and 49% respectively. This effect was proportionately greater than that of ASA (0%, 13% and 32%). The results with HTB were similar to those with triflusal, whereas SA showed a greater protective effect than ASA (13%, 33% and 35%). The antioxidant effects of HTB and SA on the biochemical mechanisms of cell damage studied here were also greater than the effects of triflusal and ASA, a finding attributable mainly to the decrease in lipid peroxidation and to the ability of HTB to also increase glutathione levels. The triflusal metabolite reduced inducible NO synthase activity by 18%, 21% and 30%, whereas SA inhibited this activity by 9%, 17% and 23%. Triflusal and HTB led to greater increases in NO synthase than ASA or AS. In conclusion, the metabolite HTB plays an important role in the neuroprotective effect of triflusal, at least in the experimental model of anoxia-reoxygenation tested here.
Reproductive performance, blood testosterone, lipid peroxidation and seminal plasma biochemistry of rabbits as affected by feeding Acacia saligna under subtropical conditions.	Thirty-two New Zealand White growing rabbits (eight-week old) were used to determine the effect of feeding acacia-based diets on semen characteristics, plasma testosterone, free radicals, seminal plasma enzymes and lipids. Rabbits were randomly assigned to four equal groups. The first group (control) was fed a basal diet only, and the other three groups were fed other three diets, as follows: 80% of basal diet+20% of acacia leaves (low), 60% of basal diet+40% of acacia leaves (medium) and 40% of basal diet+60% of acacia leaves (high), respectively for 32 week. Semen samples were collected throughout the last 12 week of the experimental period. Rabbits fed on different levels of Acacia showed no significant changes in libido (reaction time), ejaculate volume, sperm concentration, packed sperm volume and initial hydrogen ion concentration compared to control. However, low and/or medium levels of Acacia caused significant (P<0.05) increase in total sperm output (TSO), sperm motility (%), total motile sperm per ejaculate (TMS), normal sperm, total functional sperm fraction (TFSF), semen initial fructose, live sperm and plasma testosterone. On the other hand, high level of Acacia did not show any significant change in TSO, sperm motility (%), TMS, initial fructose, TFSF or testosterone, while live and normal sperm decreased. All levels of Acacia caused a significant decrease in the concentrations of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and an increase in the activity of glutathione S-transferease. The activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aminotransferases and phosphatases were significantly increased in seminal plasma of animals fed low or medium levels of Acacia. Seminal plasma total lipid, triglyceride, low density lipoprotein and free fatty acids were significantly (P<0.05) decreased in low or medium levels of Acacia. On the other hand, total cholesterol, percentage cholesterol (out of total lipids) and high density lipoprotein were significantly (P<0.05) increased in seminal plasma of rabbits fed on low or medium levels of Acacia. High level of Acacia did not cause any changes in the previous parameters. It can be concluded that up to 40% Acacia leaves could be used successfully and safely in the diet of rabbits without adversely affecting their reproductive performance under subtropical conditions.
Effects of environmental anoxia and different periods of reoxygenation on oxidative balance in gills of the estuarine crab Chasmagnathus granulata.	We investigated the effects of anoxia (8 h) and different periods of reoxygenation (20 and 40 min) on the oxidative balance in anterior and posterior gills of the crab Chasmagnathus granulata. Enzyme activity of catalase and GST was increased in the gills of the animals submitted to anoxia, and SOD activity was decreased. These enzymes returned approximately to control levels during the anoxia recovery time. These results demonstrated enzyme activities change with variations in environmental oxygen levels. The posterior gills showed a higher antioxidant enzyme activity than anterior gills. In the gills, there were no changes in the non-enzymatic antioxidant system (TRAP) during anoxia. On the other hand, during anoxia recovery, an increase of TRAP in both gills was observed. Anoxia does not change lipid peroxidation (TBARS) in the gills. During anoxia recuperation, an increase in levels of TBARS was observed. Thus the results demonstrate that C. granulata has a similar strategy of preparation for oxidative stress as observed in other intertidal species, enabling the crabs to survive in an environment with extreme variations in physical and chemical characteristics, such as salt marshes.
Changes in antioxidant enzyme activities, fatty acid composition and lipid peroxidation in Daphnia magna during the aging process.	Age-related changes in the balance between endogenous pro-oxidative and antioxidative processes in the freshwater cladoceran Daphnia magna (Crustacea) were assessed. The activities of key antioxidant enzymes including catalase, superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase and levels of lipid peroxidation measured as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) were determined in eight age classes, covering juvenile, young and senescent adults. Age-related changes in fatty acid composition were also measured to examine the contribution of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in the peroxidation status of animals. Biochemical responses depicted in this study demonstrated that age-related decline in survival was accompanied by increasing oxidative stress and oxidative damage. Enhanced oxidative stress in aging D. magna was suggested by the significant increase in the formation of lipid peroxides, and a concomitant reduction of unsaturated fatty acids of 20 or more carbon atoms. Because aging was accompanied by selective loss of key antioxidant enzymes and small changes in the amount of PUFA, the breakdown of antioxidant defences might have directly contributed to oxidative stress, membrane lipid peroxide and a decline of survival. Indeed, the results reported here, indicate that age-related increases of lipid peroxides were at least partially due to the functional imbalance of enzymatic antioxidant defences.
Pirenoxine prevents oxidative effects of argon fluoride excimer laser irradiation in rabbit corneas: biochemical, histological and cytofluorimetric evaluations.	The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) associated with excimer laser irradiation is recognized as a possible cause of corneal haze following photorefractive keratectomy (PRK). Our work was aimed at investigating in vitro the oxidative effects induced by subablative laser fluences and at demonstrating the protective effectiveness of pirenoxine. Comparative trials of subablative fluence on rabbit eyes with or without 10(-5) M pirenoxine were carried out. Superoxide anion (O(2)(-)), conjugated diene (CD), and thiobarbituric acid reagent substance (TBARS) formation were analyzed. Cellular death was evaluated by flow cytometry. Histological examinations were also performed. No appraisable differences in O(2)(-),CD,andTBARS formation were detected soon after irradiation, whereas they all increased following incubation. Pirenoxine inhibited such increases. Cytofluorimetric and histological observations gave coherent results. The experimental data indicate that oxidative and toxic effects are ascribable to ROS avalanches triggered by laser irradiation-induced photodissociation and are inhibited by pirenoxine.
l-Arginine attenuates acute pulmonary embolism-induced oxidative stress and pulmonary hypertension.	l-Arginine is substrate for nitric oxide (NO) synthesis and produces pulmonary vasodilatory effects in patients with pulmonary hypertension and in hypoxic animals. We hypothesized that l-arginine would attenuate the increase in oxidative stress and the pulmonary hypertension observed during acute pulmonary embolism (APE). Using an isolated lung perfusion rat model of APE, we examined whether l-arginine (0, 0.1, 0.5, 3, and 10 mmol/L) attenuates the pulmonary hypertension induced by the injection of 6.6 mg/kg of 300 microm Sephadex microspheres into the pulmonary artery. Thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBA-RS) and nitrite/nitrate (NO(x)) concentrations were measured in lung perfusate to assess oxidative stress and NO production. l-Arginine (0.5, 3, and 10 mmol/L) attenuated (all P<0.05) APE-induced pulmonary hypertension by about 50%. The protective effect of l-arginine was completely reversed by inhibition of NO synthesis with l-NAME (4 mmol/L). In addition, l-arginine (0.5-10 mmol/L) blunted the increase in TBA-RS observed after APE. NO(x) tended to increase only when l-arginine (10 mmol/L) was added to the lung perfusate of non-embolized lungs. Taken together, these findings suggest that l-arginine attenuates APE-induced pulmonary hypertension through antioxidant mechanisms involving increased NO synthesis.
Protective effect of propyl gallate against myocardial oxidative stress-induced injury in rat.	This study was designed to investigate the effect of chronic administration of propyl gallate on myocardial oxidative stress-induced injury. Propyl gallate was administered orally to Wistar albino rats (150-200 g) in three different doses, by gastric gavage (250 mg kg(-1) (P1), 500 mg kg(-1) (P2) and 750 mg kg(-1) (P3)), 6 days a week for 5 weeks. At the end of this period, all the rats, except the normal untreated rats that served as the control group, were administered isoproterenol (ISO), 85 mg kg(-1) subcutaneously, for 2 consecutive days to induce myocardial injury. After 48 h, rats (n = 6 per group) were anaesthetized with anaesthetic ether, sacrificed and the hearts were harvested for the estimation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), endogenous antioxidants (reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase) and for the assessment of histological changes. In the P2 BL group (BL = baseline), there was a significant (P < 0.001) rise in baseline TBARS and SOD when compared with the saline-treated group, while no such changes were observed in the other baseline-treated groups. However, there was a significant (P < 0.001) increase in TBARS and endogenous anti-oxidants (GSH, SOD and catalase) in the P2 ISO and P3 ISO groups, when the hearts were subjected to in-vivo myocardial oxidative stress-induced injury. We observed no such changes in the P1 ISO group. This study showed that propyl gallate modulates the levels of endogenous antioxidants present at the myocardial site. Whether these modifications are a result of direct interference at this site or a remote effect is not immediately clear. In conclusion, from the results it could be stated that chronic administration of 500 mg kg(-1) of propyl gallate offers significant protection against myocardial oxidative stress-induced injury.
Ingestion of a tea rich in catechins leads to a reduction in body fat and malondialdehyde-modified LDL in men.	Catechins, the major component of green tea extract, have various physiologic effects. There are few studies, however, on the effects of catechins on body fat reduction in humans. It has been reported that the body mass index (BMI) correlates with the amount of malondialdehyde and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the blood.
Temporary angiotensin II blockade at the prediabetic stage attenuates the development of renal injury in type 2 diabetic rats.	Whether temporary angiotensin II (AngII) blockade at the prediabetic stage attenuates renal injury in type 2 diabetic OLETF rats later in life was investigated. OLETF rats were treated with an AT(1) receptor antagonist (olmesartan, 0.01% in food), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (temocapril, 0.01% in food), a combination of the two, or hydralazine (25 mg/kg per d) at the prediabetic stage (4 to 11 wk of age) and then monitored without further treatment until 50 wk of age. At 11 wk of age, blood glucose levels and urinary protein excretion (U(protein)V) were similar between OLETF and control LETO rats. However, OLETF rats showed higher kidney AngII contents and type IV collagen mRNA expression than LETO rats at this age. These decreased with olmesartan, temocapril, and a combination of these but not with hydralazine. At 50 wk of age, diabetic OLETF rats showed higher BP, U(protein)V, and intrarenal AngII levels than LETO rats. Temporary AngII blockade did not affect glucose metabolism or the development of hypertension in OLETF rats but significantly suppressed proteinuria and ameliorated glomerular injury. However, no parameters were affected by temporary hydralazine treatment. The present study demonstrated that intrarenal AngII and type IV collagen expression are already augmented long before diabetes becomes apparent in OLETF rats. Furthermore, temporary AngII blockade at the prediabetic stage attenuates the progression of renal injury in these animals. These data suggest that early AngII blockade could be an effective strategy for preventing the development of type 2 diabetic renal injury later in life.
Chronic oral administration of Ocimum sanctum Linn. augments cardiac endogenous antioxidants and prevents isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrosis in rats.	Wistar rats (200-250 g) of either sex were fed with fresh leaf homogenate of Ocimum sanctum by oral gavage in two different doses, 50 mg kg-1(Os 50) and 100 mg kg-1 (Os 100), daily for 30 days. This was followed by isoproterenol administration (85 mg kg-1 s.c. two doses at 24h intervals) in both control and 0. sanctum-fed rats to induce myocardial necrosis. Hearts were isolated for estimation of endogenous myocardial antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, reduced glutathione (GSH) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and myocardial lipid peroxidation) and light microscopic study. Increased basal myocardial antioxidant SOD (9.3 +/- 1.2 vs 3.7 +/- 0.7 units mg-1 protein; P<0.05) and catalase activities (34.3 +/- 5.4 vs 17.9 +/- 5.1 units mg-1 protein; P< 0.05) were observed in the Os 50 group only without any evidence of cellular injury in both the groups. In control rats, isoproterenol administration caused significant depletion of myocardial SOD (1.7 +/- 0.2 units mg-1 protein) and GPx (104 +/- 2mU mg-1 protein) activities and increase in GSH (551.7 +/- 30.9, microg g-1 wet weight of tissue) level, with evidence of myocardial necrosis. Isoproterenol-induced changes in myocardial SOD, GPx and GSH were prevented by both the doses of 0. sanctum, however cellular injury was minimal only with 50mg kg-1. The results indicate that long-term feeding of 0. sanctum offered significant protection against isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrosis through a unique property of enhancement of endogenous antioxidants.
Monitoring thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARs) as an assay for oxidative damage in neuronal cultures and central nervous system.	Oxidative stress is a pivotal factor in neuronal degeneration. A simple method to quantify oxidative damage in culture and in situ is therefore important for studies of neurodegeneration. We present herein modifications of the standard assay for thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARs) for analyses of both cell cultures and brain tissue homogenates. Since the TBAR assay measures end-point oxidative damage, it is useful to assess the overall impact of oxidative stress-inducing and neuroprotective agents; interpretation is not potentially confounded by the presence or absence of transient products of oxidative damage.
Cyclosporine protects against ischemia/reperfusion injury in rat kidneys.	Renal ischemia followed by reperfusion leads to acute renal failure in both native kidneys and renal allografts. Cyclosporine A (CsA) has been used as an immunosuppressive agent in organ transplantation. In the present study, the effect of CsA on ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced injury in the kidney was investigated. Ischemia/reperfusion injury caused a significant deterioration in the renal function, morphology and gave rise to a severe oxidative stress in the kidney. At 3 mg/kg i.v., CsA significantly improved the functional and histological parameters and attenuated the oxidative stress induced by renal ischemia/reperfusion. From the results of our study, it can be concluded that low-dose CsA pretreatment preconditions the rat kidneys against subsequent ischemia/reperfusion injury.
Estradiol protects cultured articular chondrocytes from oxygen-radical-induced damage.	Osteoarthritis (OA) is aggravated in menopausal women possibly because of changed serum estrogen levels. Estradiol has been postulated to affect oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) in articular chondrocytes. We generated ROS in cultured bovine articular chondrocytes by incubating them with combined Fe2SO4, vitamin C, and hydrogen peroxide. The release of thiobarbituric-acid-reactive substances (TBARS, lipid peroxidation) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH, membrane damage) was measured photometrically. Various estradiol doses and vitamin E, serving as control with an established anti-oxidative capacity, were applied either upon each exchange of medium and during radical production (strategy 1) or only during radical production (strategy 2). In chondrocytes incubated according to strategy 1, the production of TBARS and LDH release were significantly suppressed by 10(-10)-10(-4) M estradiol or by vitamin E. Under strategy 2, the production of TBARS was significantly suppressed at estradiol concentrations higher than 10(-6) M, whereas LDH release was inhibited at concentrations of 10(-6)-10(-4) M. Vitamin E showed no significant effects. As repeated application of estradiol and vitamin E produced the best results, estradiol, like vitamin E, was speculated to accumulate in the plasma membrane and to decrease membrane fluidity resulting in protection against lipid peroxidation (non-genomic effect). Thus, in contrast to the neuroprotective effect of 17beta-estradiol in supraphysiological doses reported recently, the anti-oxidative potential of estradiol appears to protect articular chondrocytes from ROS-induced damage when the hormone is given repeatedly in a physiological range. Decreased estradiol levels may therefore contribute to menopausal OA in the long term.
Hesperidin, a citrus bioflavonoid, decreases the oxidative stress produced by carbon tetrachloride in rat liver and kidney.	CCl4 is a well-established hepatotoxin inducing liver injury by producing free radicals. Exposure to CCl4 also induces acute and chronic renal injuries. The present study was designed to establish the protective effect of hesperidin (HDN), a citrus bioflavonoid, on CCl4-induced oxidative stress and resultant dysfunction of rat liver and kidney.
Antithrombin III pretreatment reduces neutrophil recruitment into the lung in a rat model of abdominal sepsis.	Antithrombin III (AT III) is a serine protease inhibitor and the mechanism of its anti-inflammatory action is still not understood. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory action of AT III on lung injury in a rat model of sepsis.
Monoamine transporter inhibitors and norepinephrine reduce dopamine-dependent iron toxicity in cells derived from the substantia nigra.	The role of dopamine in iron uptake into catecholaminergic neurons, and dopamine oxidation to aminochrome and its one-electron reduction in iron-mediated neurotoxicity, was studied in RCSN-3 cells, which express both tyrosine hydroxylase and monoamine transporters. The mean +/- SD uptake of 100 microm 59FeCl3 in RCSN-3 cells was 25 +/- 4 pmol per min per mg, which increased to 28 +/- 8 pmol per min per mg when complexed with dopamine (Fe(III)-dopamine). This uptake was inhibited by 2 microm nomifensine (43%p < 0.05), 100 microm imipramine (62%p < 0.01), 30 microm reboxetine (71%p < 0.01) and 2 mm dopamine (84%p < 0.01). The uptake of 59Fe-dopamine complex was Na+, Cl- and temperature dependent. No toxic effects in RCSN-3 cells were observed when the cells were incubated with 100 microm FeCl3 alone or complexed with dopamine. However, 100 microm Fe(III)-dopamine in the presence of 100 microm dicoumarol, an inhibitor of DT-diaphorase, induced toxicity (44% cell death; p < 0.001), which was inhibited by 2 microm nomifensine, 30 microm reboxetine and 2 mm norepinephrine. The neuroprotective action of norepinephrine can be explained by (1) its ability to form complexes with Fe3+, (2) the uptake of Fe-norepinephrine complex via the norepinephrine transporter and (3) lack of toxicity of the Fe-norepinephrine complex even when DT-diaphorase is inhibited. These results support the proposed neuroprotective role of DT-diaphorase and norepinephrine.
Effects of angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade on the oxidative stress in spontaneously hypertensive rat tissues.	The aim of this work was to investigate the production of oxidative damage in homogenized kidney, liver and brain of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), as well as the involvement of angiotensin (Ang) II in this process. Groups of 12-week-old SHR and Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) were given 10 mg/kg/day losartan in the drinking water during 14 days. Other groups of WKY and SHR without treatment were used as controls. The production of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), reduced glutathione (GSH) and the activity of the antioxidant enzymes catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) were determined. No significant difference in TBARS was observed between untreated SHR or WKY rats; GSH content was lower in the liver but higher in the brain of SHR compared to WKY rats. In tissues from the SHR group, SOD and Gpx activities were reduced, whereas CAT activity was slightly increased in kidney. TBARS levels did not change in WKY rats after losartan administration, but were reduced in SHR liver and brain. Losartan treatment decreased GSH content in WKY kidney, but increased GSH in SHR liver. The activity of the antioxidant enzymes was not modified by losartan in WKY rats; however, their activities increased in tissues from treated SHR. The lower activity of antioxidant enzymes in tissues from hypertensive rats compared to those detected in normotensive controls, indicates oxidative stress production. Ang II seems to play no role in this process in normotensive animals, although AT1 receptor blockade in SHR enhances the enzymatic activity indicating that Ang II is implicated in oxidative stress generation in the hypertensive animals.
Evaluation of single intratesticular injection of calcium chloride for nonsurgical sterilization of male Black Bengal goats (Capra hircus): a dose-dependent study.	This study describes the induction of chemosterilization in three groups each of six adult male Black Bengal goats at 30 days after a single bilateral intratesticular injection of a calcium chloride (CaCl(2), 2H(2)O) solution at the doses of 10, 20 or 40 mg/kg body weight/testis, always in a 2 ml volume of normal saline. Another one group of animals received only 2 ml of normal saline per testis as a control. The induction of chemosterilization was measured using relative testicular weight as well as histomorphological parameters including seminiferous tubular architecture and germ cell association in seminiferous tubules along with morphology of the interstitial space. Biochemical markers included activities of testicular Delta(5), 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (Delta(5), 3beta-HSD), 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) as well as monitoring the level of testicular thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes and reduced glutathione (GSH) content along with plasma concentrations of testosterone, LH and FSH. Histomorphological measures of testes showed total necrosis of testicular tissue at 30 days after an injection of either 20 or 40 mg CaCl(2) along with fibrosis in seminiferous tubules and interstitial spaces. Infiltration of leucocytes was observed with the 40 mg dose. Disintegration of germ cell arrangement in seminiferous tubules and washing out of germ cells from the tubules were noted with the 10mg dose. Relative organ weights, plasma concentrations of testosterone, testicular activities of Delta(5), 3beta-HSD, 17beta-HSD, catalase, GPx, GST, and SOD and testicular contents of GSH all were declined. Increases occurred in testicular TBARS, conjugated dienes and plasma concentrations of LH and FSH with each of the treatments by comparison with the control group. Plasma concentrations of cortisol and fasting blood sugar level as well as packed cell volume (PCV) and total plasma protein were recorded to monitor the changes of chronic stress in the experimental animals. Changes in these parameters were not significant. An intratesticular injection of calcium chloride at specified doses could be a suitable method of sterilization in preference to surgical castration of goats.
Relationship between total superoxide dismutase activity with lipid peroxidation, dynamics and morphological parameters in canine semen.	There is a lack of information regarding biochemical studies on canine semen. The knowledge of canine sperm metabolism is important because this species has differences in fertility among males, but biochemical studies are not well developed in this species. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are active molecules produced during the oxygen reduction that have been implicated in several deleterious effects on the function and viability of spermatozoa when they are produced at high concentrations. Peroxidation of the plasma membrane phospholipids leads to a loss of motility, viability, and cytosolic elements, metabolic changes and structural alterations in spermatozoa. The most important antioxidant enzyme involved in ROS detoxification in mammalian spermatozoa is superoxide dismutase (SOD). The aims of the present study were to determine the presence of SOD-like activity in different fractions of canine semen, and to determine the relationship between SOD-like activity and different morphological, dynamical and biochemical parameters in canine spermatozoa. We demonstrated the presence of SOD-like activity in canine seminal plasma and spermatozoa; the negative correlation between SOD-like activity and lipid peroxidation concentrations in spermatozoa suggests a protective effect of this enzymatic activity against the potential oxidative stress in canine spermatozoa. A significant negative correlation between percentage of abnormal spermatozoa, and the percentage of progressive motility or vigor was found. Abnormal spermatozoa not only showed a deformed shape, moreover there was an energetic motility system failure. The presence of SOD-like activity in seminal plasma, spermatic, and postspermatic fractions of canine semen was demonstrated for the first time.
Suppressive effect of cocoa powder on atherosclerosis in Kurosawa and Kusanagi-hypercholesterolemic rabbits.	We investigated the suppressive effect of cocoa powder (cacao polyphenol content: 7.8%) on atherosclerosis in a spontaneous familial hypercholesterolemic model, Kurosawa and Kusanagi-hypercholesterolemic (KHC) rabbits. Six-month dietary administration of cocoa powder had no effects on body weight, hematology or blood chemistry parameters or a lipid profile in KHC rabbits. Antioxidative activity of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) was observed in the 2nd month and 3rd month of administration. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), the marker of lipid peroxidation, in plasma were decreased in the cocoa powder treated group from the 2nd month of administration during the study period compared to that in the control group. The area of atherosclerotic lesions in th aorta was significantly smaller in the cocoa powder group (30.87%) than in the control (52.39%). Tissue cholesterol content also tended to decrease. Distensibility of the aortic wall was improved significantly in the cocoa powder treated group due to decreases in fatty streaks and intimal thickening compared to that in the control group. These results suggest that cocoa powder has suppressive effect on development of atherosclerotic lesions. We consider that antioxidative activity of polyphenols rich in cocoa powder may be a key factor for the anti-atherosclerotic effect.
Effects of dietary baicalin supplementation on iron overload-induced mouse liver oxidative injury.	Iron overload is one of the most common metal related toxicity. Under this circumstance, excessive iron deposition in liver will lead to further injury such as hepatocellular necrosis, inflammation, fibrosis, and in some cases even to carcinoma. In this paper, the effect of a nature flavonoid, baicalin, on iron overload-induced mouse liver oxidative injury has been studied. It was found that when iron-dextran-induced iron overload, mice were fed baicalin-containing diet (0.25% and 1%) for 50 days, hepatic iron, liver-to-body weight ratio, and hepatic lipid peroxidation were dose-dependently decreased; while catalase activity, total antioxidant status, and serum iron content were dose dependently increased. The protective effect of baicalin on liver of iron overload mouse may due to both the antioxidant and iron chelation activities of baicalin. These data provide preliminary experimental support for baicalin as medicine for iron overload diseases.
Antioxidant enzyme activity and lipid peroxidation in liver and kidney of rats exposed to microcystin-LR administered intraperitoneally.	The effect of acute exposure of intraperitoneal injection of microcystin-LR (MCLR) on antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation has been studied in liver and kidney of rats. Rats were treated with two doses, i.e. 100 and 150 microg of pure MCLR/kg body weight or saline solution. The enzyme activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in the liver were significantly decreased in MCLR-treated rats. The decrease of GR activity in the liver was 60%, followed by GSH-Px, SOD and CAT. Similarly, a decrease in the antioxidant enzymes was found in the kidney of MCLR-treated rats, such as GSH-Px (27-31%), GR (22%), SOD (42%) and CAT (25-28%). Concomitantly, significant increases in lipid peroxidation levels were recorded in liver (121 and 196% for 100 and 150 microg/kg, respectively) and kidney (48 and 58% for 100 and 150 microg/kg, respectively) from MCLR-treated rats. In conclusion, acute exposure to MCLR results in a decrease in the antioxidant enzymes and an increase in lipid peroxidation in liver and kidney rats, suggesting the oxidative stress as an important role in the pathogenesis of MCLR-induced toxicity. Antioxidant enzymes were significantly consumed in the liver and a minor decrease was found in kidney, confirming the organ-specific effects of MCLR.
Attenuation of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine induced genotoxicity and oxidative stress by tomato and garlic combination.	The protective effect of pretreatment with tomato and garlic against N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced genotoxicity and oxidative stress was investigated in male Swiss mice. In vivo bone marrow micronucleus test was performed to assess the antigenotoxic effect of tomato and garlic. Oxidative stress was monitored by estimating the extent of lipid peroxidation and the status of the glutathione redox cycle antioxidants. Increased frequency of bone marrow micronuclei with enhanced lipid peroxidation was associated with compromised antioxidant defenses in MNNG treated animals. Although pretreatment with tomato and garlic significantly reduced the frequencies of MNNG-induced bone marrow micronuclei, the combination of tomato and garlic exerted a greater protective effect. This was associated with modulation of lipid peroxidation as well as reduced glutathione (GSH) and the GSH-dependent enzymes glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). These findings suggest that a diet containing even low levels of different naturally occurring compounds is effective in exerting antigenotoxic effects by modulating oxidative stress.
Folic acid supplementation can reduce the endothelial damage in rat brain microvasculature due to hyperhomocysteinemia.	To evaluate the effects of dietary folic acid supplementation on the cerebral vascular damage induced by hyperhomocysteinemia, rats were fed a diet containing 3.0 g/kg homocystine for 2 wk and then either 3.0 g/kg homocystine or 3.0 g/kg homocystine plus 0.008 g/kg folic acid for 8 wk. Control rats consumed the AIN-93 Maintenance diet throughout the experiment. The cerebral expression of glucose transporter-1 was measured by Western blot analysis and cerebrovascular structural alterations were evaluated by electron microscopy. The homocystine diet significantly increased the plasma levels of homocysteine and TBARS and decreased the cerebral expression of glucose transporter-1 (GLUT-1) with a concomitant increase in the percentage of damaged cerebral vessels. The inclusion of dietary folic acid for 8 wk caused plasma homocysteine levels to be the same as in control rats and it significantly upregulated the cerebral expression of GLUT-1 that was significantly reduced by hyperhomocysteinemia. Folic acid supplementation also significantly decreased the incidence of damaged vessels due to hyperhomocysteinemia. These results and the electron microscopy findings suggested that folic acid supplementation might reduce the detrimental effects on the endothelium caused by experimentally induced hyperhomocysteinemia.
One-year monitoring survey of organic compounds (PAHs, PCBs, TBT), heavy metals and biomarkers in blue mussels from the Arcachon Bay, France.	Marine mussels Mytilus sp. were transplanted on a monthly basis in cages over one year to oyster farms and harbours in the Arcachon Bay (France) in order to assess the water quality of the bay. Contaminant levels (organotin compounds, trace metals, PCBs and PAHs) were measured in tissues of transplanted mussels and mussels from a reference station, along with physiological parameters of the mussels (condition indexes, lipid content and dry weight). Four biomarkers (AChE: acetylcholinesterase activity, GST: gluthathione S-transferase activity, CAT: catalase activity and TBARS: thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance content) were also monitored. The remote stations monitored (oyster parks) exhibited no accumulation pattern of pollutants. Their respective concentrations therefore constitute a background level of the contamination in the bay ([TBT]= 30 ng Sn g(-1) dw, [SigmaHAPs]= 100 ng g(-1) dw, [SigmaPCBs]= 35 ng g(-1) dw). The elevated chemical contamination of the largest harbour of the bay, the Arcachon harbour, can be interpreted in terms of persistence of organotin compounds ([SigmaOTs]= 1500-2000 ng Sn g(-1) dw) and PAHs ([SigmaHAPs]= 4500-5000 ng g(-1) dw) in sediments and, to a lesser extent, of direct inputs of copper ([Cu]= 20 microg g(-1) dw in harbours versus 7 in oyster parks) and petrogenic PAHs ([methylphenanthrenes]= 1600 ng g(-1) dw in the dockyard versus 170 at the gas stations), related to the use of copper-based antifouling paints and to dockyard activity, respectively. However, the Arcachon Bay presents a low contamination level by PCBs and metals, including harbour stations. Furthermore, higher levels of other PAHs (particularly alkyl PAHs such as methylphenanthrenes/1600 ng g(-1) dw) not included in the 16 PAHs from the EPA priority list (usually studied in biomonitoring programmes/1500 ng g(-1) dw) in the Arcachon harbour underline the need to integrate these compounds in biomonitoring of highly PAH-polluted areas such as harbours in order to avoid misinterpretation of the biological responses observed. Biomarker responses were not able to discriminate the different chemical contamination levels recorded in the Arcachon Bay and rather reflected changes in environmental factors. Furthermore, the strong intraspecies variability of biological responses could be due to genetic differences of mussels from the Arcachon Bay. It is the first time that such an integrated monitoring is performed in the Arcachon Bay, also taking into account seasonal variations of chemical contents and biomarkers levels in mussel tissues.
Potential toxicity of nonregulated asbestiform minerals: balangeroite from the western Alps. Part 2: Oxidant activity of the fibers.	The asbestiform mineral balangeroite [(Mg,Fe2+,Fe3+,Mn2+)42Si16O54(OH)36], whose toxic potential is unknown, is associated with chrysotile asbestos in the western Alps (Balangero mine, Piedmont, Italy). In order to examine whether such fibers may contribute to the oxidative damage produced by local asbestos dusts when inhaled, balangeroite was studied by means of both cell-free and cellular tests, comparing the results with those concerning the most pathogenic asbestos form, crocidolite. Similarly to the crocidolite surface, iron was mobilized from balangeroite by chelators, to a different extent: deferoxamine > ascorbic acid > ferrozine. Poorly coordinated surface ions, as evaluated from the adsorption of NO as a probe molecule (by both calorimetry and infrared spectroscopy), are even more abundant on balangeroite than on crocidolite. The spin trapping technique shows that surface iron-derived Fenton activity (HO* from H2O2) is similar for the two fiber types, while a pretreatment in ascorbic acid, by reducing previously oxidized surface iron, activates the potential to cleave a C-H bond (yielding *CO2- from formate anion). Balangeroite, like crocidolite, produces nitrite accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and NO synthase activation in a human lung epithelial cell line (A549). All these findings, regarded as features related to the toxic potential of asbestos, suggest that balangeroite may be a potentially hazardous fiber per se and could be partly responsible for lung diseases reported in epidemiological studies in exposed miners.
Antioxidant effects of aqueous extracts from dried calyx of Hibiscus sabdariffa Linn. (Roselle) in vitro using rat low-density lipoprotein (LDL).	The present study quantitatively investigated the antioxidant effects of the aqueous extracts from dried calyx of Hibiscus sabdariffa LINN. (roselle) in vitro using rat low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Formations of the conjugated dienes and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs) were monitored as markers of the early and later stages of the oxidation of LDL, respectively. Thus, we demonstrated that the dried calyx extracts of roselle exhibits strong antioxidant activity in Cu(2+)-mediated oxidation of LDL (p<0.05) in vitro. The inhibitory effect of the extracts on LDL oxidation was dose-dependent at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 5 mg/ml. Moreover, 5 mg/ml of roselle inhibited TBARs-formation with greater potency than 100 microM of vitamin E. In conclusion, this study provides a quantitative insight into the potent antioxidant effect of roselle in vitro.
Lipopolysaccharide treatment downregulates the expression of the pregnane X receptor, cyp3a11 and mdr1a genes in mouse placenta.	The cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) is a member of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase superfamily. The multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) gene belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family. Pregnane X receptor (PXR) is a nuclear receptor that regulates its target gene transcription in a ligand-dependent manner. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced downregulation of PXR, CYP3A and MDR1 in liver has been demonstrated in a series of studies. However, it is not clear whether LPS represses the expression of PXR, CYP3A and MDR1 in placenta. In the present study, we investigated the effects of LPS on the expression of PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a in mouse placenta. Pregnant ICR mice were injected intraperitoneally with different doses of LPS (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) on gestational day (gd) 17. Placental PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a mRNA levels were determined at 12 h after LPS treatment using RT-PCR. Results showed that LPS significantly downregulated PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a mRNA levels in a dose-dependent manner. LPS-induced downregulation of PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a mRNA in placenta was significantly attenuated after pregnant mice were pre- and post-treated with alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone (PBN), a free radical spin trapping agent. Additional experiments revealed that LPS increased lipid peroxidation and proinflammatory cytokine expressions in mouse placenta, all of which were also attenuated by PBN. Furthermore, LPS-induced downregulation of PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a mRNA in mouse placenta was prevented by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). NAC also inhibited LPS-initiated lipid peroxidation, GSH depletion and proinflammatory cytokine expressions in mouse placenta. These results indicated that LPS downregulates placental PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a mRNA expressions. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) may be involved in LPS-induced downregulation of PXR, cyp3a11 and mdr1a in mouse placenta.
The influence of chokeberry juice supplementation on the reduction of oxidative stress resulting from an incremental rowing ergometer exercise.	The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of an increased intake of anthocyanins, contained in chokeberry juice, on the redox parameters in rowers performing a physical exercise during a 1-month training camp. The athletes were randomly assigned to receive 150 mL of chokeberry juice daily, containing 23 mg/100 mL of anthocyanins (supplemented group), or placebo (control group). Before and after the supplementation period, the subjects performed an incremental rowing exercise test. Blood samples were taken from the antecubital vein before each exercise test, 1 min after the test, and following a 24-h recovery period. After the supplementation period, TBARS concentrations in the samples collected 1 min after the exercise test and following a 24-h recovery period were significantly lower in the subjects receiving chokeberry juice than in the control group. In the supplemented group, glutathione peroxidase activity was lower in the samples collected 1 min after the exercise test, and superoxide dismutase activity was lower in the samples taken following a 24-h recovery, as compared to the subjects receiving placebo. These findings indicate that an increased intake of anthocyanins limits the exercise-induced oxidative damage to red blood cells, most probably by enhancing the endogenous antioxidant defense system.
Antioxidant enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation in the freshwater cladoceran Daphnia magna exposed to redox cycling compounds.	Contaminant-related changes in antioxidative processes in the freshwater crustacea Daphnia magna exposed to model redox cycling contaminant were assessed. Activities of key antioxidant enzymes including catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferases and levels of lipid peroxidation measured as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and lipofucsin pigment content were determined in D. magna juveniles after being exposed to sublethal levels of menadione, paraquat, endosulfan, cadmium and copper for 48 h. Results denoted different patterns of antioxidant enzyme responses, suggesting that different toxicants may induce different antioxidant/prooxidant responses depending on their ability to produce reactive oxygen species and antioxidant enzymes to detoxify them. Low responses of antioxidant enzyme activities for menadione and endosulfan, associated with increasing levels of lipid peroxidation and enhanced levels of antioxidant enzyme activities for paraquat, seemed to prevent lipid peroxidation, whereas high levels of both antioxidant enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation were found for copper. For cadmium, low antioxidant enzyme responses coupled with negligible increases in lipid peroxidation indicated low potential for cadmium to alter the antioxidant/prooxidant status in Daphnia. Among the studied enzymes, total glutathione peroxidase, catalase and glutathione S-transferase appeared to be the most responsive biomarkers of oxidative stress.
The effects of reactive oxygen species on amphibian aging.	To clarify the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the aging process of amphibians, antioxidant enzyme activity and indexes of ROS damage were investigated biochemically using the livers of 3- and 10-year-old Rana nigromaculata frog males and females. Findings revealed no significant difference in survival rate between males and females. Antioxidant enzyme activity displayed an age-related decline. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity in 10-year-old liver decreased 40-80% from 3-year-old liver levels. In contrast, urate oxidase activity in the 10-year-old liver increased more than 200% from 3-year-old liver levels. At the same time levels of ROS damage, including the concentration of inorganic peroxide and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), greatly increased with age. Liver catalase from 10-year-old frogs proved to be more susceptible to aminotriazole and urea, losing approximately 80% of its original activity after 30 min of treatment. It seems likely that liver catalase in older frogs has diverged from liver catalase in younger frogs through oxidative modification. These findings suggest that a decrease in the activity of antioxidant enzymes over time results in increased levels of ROS damage in the livers of older frogs.
Curcumin and turmeric delay streptozotocin-induced diabetic cataract in rats.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of curcumin and its source, turmeric, on streptozotocin-induced diabetic cataract in rats.
Oxidative damage in eelpout (Zoarces viviparus), measured as protein carbonyls and TBARS, as biomarkers.	During 2002-2003 a dredging campaign was undertaken in Gteborg harbor, Sweden, to widen and deepen shipping lanes. A bunker oil spill occurred in the harbor in July 2003, thereby further exasperating the situation for marine life. Eelpout, Zoarces viviparus, was used as a sentinel species to monitor the impact of these events. Here, we have investigated the effects on two liver parameters, lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation, which can serve as biomarkers for oxidative stress. Lipid peroxidation data, measured as TBARS, in eelpout from the field study showed no significant differences between reference and polluted sites, at any of the time points. These results are mirrored in a laboratory exposure to the bunker oil where no differences were seen between the control and the exposure groups. A trend towards a seasonal cycle in TBARS levels in eelpout liver was observed, with highest amounts measured during the warmer months, 97.08+/-14.45 nmol/g liver in the harbor in July compared to 41.20+/-2.66 nmol/g liver in November 2001. Protein carbonylation, measured using an ELISA method, did, however, show differences between the reference and polluted sites in the field, as well as differences between time periods (before and during dredging and following the oil spill). The laboratory exposure indicated that the formation and/or accumulation of protein carbonyls is greatly affected by exposure to this PAH rich oil. Levels in the control group were 1.76+/-0.13 nmol/mg protein while those fish exposed to the high dose had 6.23+/-0.17 nmol/mg protein. We concluded that TBARS is not an appropriate biomarker for pollutant mediated oxidative damage in eelpout while protein carbonyl formation does appear to be affected by xenobiotic exposure.
Effects of vitamin restriction and supplementation on rat intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis.	Diet influences intestinal growth and function and vitamins modulate intestinal cell turnover. We have assessed the effects of chronic, moderate (50% of control) vitamin restriction and supplementation on intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) apoptosis and the relevance of this to alterations in tissue oxidative stress and antioxidant status. Feeding a vitamin-restricted diet to male, weanling WNIN rats for 20 weeks significantly increased IEC apoptosis, but only in the villi region, as evident from increased annexin V staining, M30 positivity, histological observations, DNA ladder formation, and reduced expression of Bcl-2. This was associated with elevated levels of lipid peroxides and protein carbonyls in the intestinal mucosa despite the increased activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase. Consistent with the increased oxidative stress and apoptosis, structural and functional integrity of the villi were compromised as evident from the lowered ratio of villus height:crypt depth and the decreased activities of the membrane marker enzymes alkaline phosphatase and Lys-Ala dipeptidyl aminopeptidase. These changes were reversed by supplementation with a vitamin mixture or vitamin E alone, whereas riboflavin or folic acid supplementation reduced the apoptotic rates, but only partially. Further, oxidative stress was the least in vitamin E- or vitamin mixture-supplemented rats and correlated well with their IEC apoptotic rates. Increased tissue oxidative stress seems to mediate the vitamin-restriction-induced apoptosis of the IECs in rats.
Protective effects of thiazolo[3,2-b]-1 ,2,4-triazoles on ethanol-induced oxidative stress in mouse brain and liver.	A series of 3-[1-(4-(2-methylpropyl) phenyl) ethyl]-1 ,2,4-triazole-5-thione (I) and its bicyclic condensed derivatives 6-benzylidenethiazolo[3,2-b]-1,2,4-triazole-5(6H)-ones (IIa-IIf) were investigated for the prevention of ethanol-induced oxidative stress in liver and brain of mice. Administration of ethanol (0.1 mL/mice, p.o.) resulted in a drop of total thiol groups (T-SH) and non-protein thiol groups (NP-SH), and an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in both liver and brain tissue of mice (p < 0.001). Among the compounds investigated (at a dose of 200 mg/kg, p.o.), I and IId ameliorated the peroxidative injury in these tissues effectively. Compounds IIa, IIc and IIe improved the peroxidative tissue injury only in brain. These findings suggest that certain condensed thiazolo-triazole compounds may contribute to the control of ethanol-induced oxidative stress in an organ selective manner.
Meconium aspiration induces oxidative injury in the hippocampus of newborn piglets.	Meconium aspiration-induced hypertensive lung injury has been associated with neuronal damage in the newborn, but the mechanisms of the injury are poorly known.
Oral amino acid administration decreases oxidative stress and improves brachial reactivity in elderly individuals.	Atherosclerosis is a major cause of death in elderly individuals. Endothelial dysfunction is recognized as a key early event in atherogenesis. In the present study, we evaluated the possible beneficial effect of amino acid administration on endothelial regulation in elderly subjects.
Chronic administration of resveratrol prevents biochemical cardiovascular changes in fructose-fed rats.	There seems to be a link between the cluster of risk factors known as insulin resistance syndrome with endothelial dysfunction. Resveratrol (3,4,5-trihydroxyestilbene) (RV), an antioxidant found in many components of the human diet, has been proposed as an effective agent in the prevention of several pathologic processes. This study examined the effect of chronic administration of RV on endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity in cardiovascular tissues and on plasma lipid peroxidation in fructose-fed rats (FFR), an experimental model of this syndrome.
Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in the cerebrospinal fluid in schizophrenia.	Increased levels of lipid peroxidation products (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS]) are reported in plasma/serum from patients with schizophrenia. CSF TBARS levels were assessed in 10 neuroleptic-free patients with schizophrenia and in 9 normal controls. Controlling for duration of storage, CSF TBARS content was significantly lower in patients with schizophrenia vs. controls (p<0.002). No significant correlations were found between CSF TBARS and patients' age, gender, or duration of illness. The likely source of reported elevated plasma/serum TBARS in schizophrenia is therefore in the periphery. Degeneration of central neuronal membranes in schizophrenia is not supported by the present study.
Decreasing oxidative stress with choline and carnitine in women.	Fatty acid oxidation is predominantly a mitochondrial event, which is enhanced by dietary choline and carnitine supplementation resulting in extra reactive oxygen species (ROS) load. The objective was to assess oxidative stress level by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS] in choline and carnitine supplemented healthy women before and after mild exercise.
Recognition memory impairment and brain oxidative stress induced by postnatal iron administration.	Iron accumulation in the brain has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. It is known that iron catalyses the formation of highly reactive hydroxyl radicals. Recent studies have implicated oxidative damage in memory deficits in rats and humans. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the long-term effects of iron treatment in four different phases of the neonatal period on recognition memory in rats. Additionally, parameters of oxidative stress in cerebral regions related to memory formation were evaluated. Male Wistar rats received vehicle or 10.0 mg/kg of Fe2+ orally at postnatal days 5-7, 12-14, 19-21 or 30-32. Animals given iron at any phase of the neonatal period showed impairments in long-term retention of object recognition memory, although only the group given iron from postnatal days 12-14 showed a complete memory blockade. Iron treatment induced oxidative damage in the brain as assessed by the thiobarbituric acid reactive species assay. Moreover, iron administration increased superoxide production in submitochondrial particles, suggesting impaired mitochondrial function; and there was an increase in superoxide dismutase activity in brain regions susceptible to iron administration. The results show that iron load in the early stages of life induces cognitive impairment possibly by inducing oxidative damage in the brain. These findings are consistent with the view that oxidative stress may be related to the cognitive decline observed in normal ageing.
Effects of metabolic control and vascular complications on indices of oxidative stress in type 2 diabetic patients.	The direct effect and the interaction of diabetic angiopathy and metabolic control on free radical and antioxidant activity indices was investigated in 48 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Conjugated dienes (CD) and thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS) levels were 34 and 178% of control values, respectively. An approximate two-fold decrease in plasma thiols (PSH) and erythrocyte lysate thiols (LSH) concentrations, parameters reflecting protein oxidative damage, was found. Impairment of blood antioxidant potential in diabetic patients was reflected by an 81% increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, a 30% decrease in catalase (CT), 20% decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities as well as by lowered total antioxidant status (TAS). CD, TBARS and SOD values were positively correlated with plasma glucose concentration and glycated hemoglobin level. A negative correlation existed between levels of LSH, PSH, CT, GPx or TAS and both glucose and HbA(1c). Blood glucose control and vascular complications had strong independent effects on prooxidant-antioxidant status, apart from blood glucose and GR activity. In addition, glycemic control and diabetic vasculopathy interact in their influence on most of the free radical and antioxidant indices, except for CD, LSH levels and CT activity. Thus, we observed different mechanisms by which vascular complications and glucose control affect blood free radical indices and antioxidant status parameters in type 2 diabetic patients.
alpha-keto acids accumulating in maple syrup urine disease stimulate lipid peroxidation and reduce antioxidant defences in cerebral cortex from young rats.	Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is an inherited neurometabolic disorder caused by deficiency of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex activity which leads to tissue accumulation of the branched-chain alpha-keto acids (BCKAs) alpha-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC), alpha-ketoisovaleric acid (KIV) and alpha-keto-beta-methylvaleric acid (KMV) and their respective amino acids. Neuropathologic findings characteristic of the disease are cerebral edema and atrophy, whose pathophysiology is poorly known. In the present study, we investigated the in vitro effect of BCKAs on various parameters of oxidative stress, namely chemiluminescence (CL), thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS), total radical-trapping antioxidant potential (TRAP), total antioxidant reactivity (TAR), and the activities of the antioxidant enzymes catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in cerebral cortex of 30-day-old rats. The major effects observed were with KIC, which significantly increased CL and TBA-RS measurements, decreased TRAP and TAR values, and markedly inhibited GPx activity. KMV and KIV increased CL and decreased TRAP and TAR values. In contrast, these compounds did not affect CAT and SOD activities. Taken together, it was shown that: the BCKAs studied stimulated lipid peroxidation and reduced the brain antioxidant defences, suggesting an increased production of free radicals. In case the in vitro effects here detected also occur in vivo in MSUD, it can be presumed that oxidative stress might contribute, at least in part, to the brain damage found in the affected patients.
Antioxidants, oxidative stress, and pulmonary function in individuals diagnosed with asthma or COPD.	The objective of this study was to investigate the association between antioxidant nutrients and markers of oxidative stress with pulmonary function in persons with chronic airflow limitation.
Changes in biochemical parameters in rabbits blood after oral exposure to diphenyl diselenide for long periods.	The concept that selenium-containing molecules may be better antioxidants than classical antioxidants, has led to the design of synthetic organoselenium compounds. The present study was conducted to evaluate the potential toxicity of long time oral exposure to diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 in rabbits. Male adult New Zealand rabbits were divided into four groups, group I served as control; groups II, III and IV received 0.3, 3.0 and 30 ppm of (PhSe)2 pulverized in the chow for 8 months. A number of parameters were examined in blood as indicators of toxicity, including delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase (delta-ALA-D), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), urea, creatinine, TBARS, non-protein-SH, ascorbic acid and selenium. The results demonstrated that 6 and 8 months of 30 ppm (PhSe)2 intake caused a significant increase in blood delta-ALA-D activity. Erythrocyte non-protein thiol levels were significantly increased after 2 months of 30 ppm (PhSe)2 intake and then return to control levels after prolonged periods of intake. Ingestion of 3.0 ppm of (PhSe)2 for 8 months significantly increased catalase activity in erythrocytes. Conversely, no alterations in GPx, ALT, AST, TBARS and selenium levels were observed in rabbit serum, conversely, selenium levels in peri-renal adipose tissue were significantly increased after 8 months of 30 ppm (PhSe)2 intake, indicating its great lipophylicity. The present results suggest that diphenyl diselenide was not hepato- or renotoxic for rabbits, but caused some biochemical alterations that can be related to some pro-oxidant activity of the compound (particularly the reduction in Vitamin C).
Ameliorative effect of melatonin against gamma-irradiation-induced oxidative stress and tissue injury.	While radiation hazards, due to free radical generation, present an enormous challenge for biological and medical safety, melatonin is a potent scavenger of a variety of free radicals. The aim of this study was to investigate the radioprotective effect of melatonin against oxidative stress and tissue injury induced by gamma radiation. Rats were subjected to two doses of 2 and 4Gy from cesium-137 source. Four days prior to irradiation, animals received melatonin daily (10mg/kg body weight i.p.). In the irradiated animals, the oxidative stress markers malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl were significantly increased in the liver, while a marked decrease in hepatic contents of DNA, RNA, and glutathione (GSH) as well as activity of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was demonstrated. In addition, catalase (CAT) activity was increased in the liver 5 days after irradiation. The levels of total lipids, cholesterol, triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), urea, and creatinine, as well as activities of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), were significantly increased in sera of the irradiated rats. This is coupled with decreased serum levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), total protein and albumin, and total globulins by irradiation. The administration of melatonin alone daily for 4 days caused significant decreases in MDA and protein carbonyl content and produced significant elevations of GSH content and GST activity in the liver. Moreover, significant decreases in total lipids, cholesterol, and TG without change in LDL or HDL levels in serum were demonstrated. Treatment with melatonin for 4 days before acute irradiation significantly abolished radiation-induced elevations in MDA and protein carbonyl levels in the liver and significantly maintained hepatic GSH content, GST, and CAT activities close to the control values. Preirradiation treatment with melatonin showed significantly higher hepatic DNA and RNA contents than irradiated rats. The levels of total lipids, cholesterol, TG, HDL, LDL, total proteins, albumin, total globulins, creatinine, and urea, as well as the activities of AST, ALT, and GGT in serum were significantly ameliorated when melatonin was injected before irradiation. In conclusion, the increase in oxidative stress markers and the concomitant change in antioxidant levels indicate the role of oxidative stress in radiation-induced tissue damage. Moreover, melatonin shows a radioprotective impact against ionizing-radiation-induced oxidative stress and organ injury.
Effects of rutin and quercetin on monooxygenase activities in experimental influenza virus infection.	The aim of this work is to study the effect of the flavonoids rutin and quercetin on hepatic monooxygenase activities in experimental influenza virus infection (EIVI). EIVI causes oxidative stress in the whole organism. This is confirmed by the rapidly increased concentrations of thiobarbituric reactive substances in influenza-infected mice: lungs - 290%; blood plasma - more than 320%; liver - 230%; brain - 50%. Although known for their antioxidant activities, rutin and quercetin exhibit prooxidant effect in healthy and antioxidant activity in influenza-infected animals. The pretreatment with both flavonoids (20 mg/kg b.w.) restores oxidative damage mostly in the target organ of the infection as well as in the liver of all infected mice (lungs: rutin - 30%, quercetin - 40%, combination - 45%; liver: rutin - 12%; quercetin - 40%; combination - 50%). As far as EIVI causes oxidative stress, toxicosis and inhibition of the hepatic monooxygenase activity, it is important to study the effects of rutin and quercetin on these systems. Both flavonoids induce the level of cytochrome P-450 (rutin - 13%, quercetin - 30%, combination - 22%) but inactivate NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, aminopyrine N-demethylase and analgin N-demethylase on the 5th day of EIVI. Probably, these flavonoids affect different components of the monooxygenase system. These effects could be explained with oxidative hepatic intoxication on the 5th critical day of EIVI as well as higher dose treatment. More data are needed on the antioxidant/prooxidant effects of rutin and quercetin, probably due to specific metabolic and physiological activities, chemical structure, etc.
The effects of a mixture of brown and black rice on lipid profiles and antioxidant status in rats.	The present study was designed to investigate the influence of natural brown and black rice consumption on serum lipid parameters and hepatic enzyme activities in rats fed different combinations of grains.
Glycoprotein isolated from Ulmus davidiana NAKAI protects against carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury in the mouse.	Ulmus davidiana NAKAI (UDN) has traditionally been used for healing of inflammatory diseases. This study was carried out to investigate the hepatoprotective effect of the glycoprotein isolated from UDN in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver injury. We evaluated the activities of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), and antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx)] activities in CCl4-treated mice. When mice were treated with CCl4 in the absence of UDN glycoprotein, the activities of ALT, LDH, and TBARS were increased, while the antioxidant enzymes activities were decreased. However, when the mice were treated with CCl4 in the presence of UDN glycoprotein, the activities of ALT, LDH, and TBARS were significantly reduced and SOD, CAT, and GPx activities were remarkably increased. In addition, UDN glycoprotein increased the nitric oxide production and decreased the nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1 activation in CCl4-treated mice. We also investigated the protective effects of UDN glycoprotein in glucose/glucose oxidase (G/GO)-induced cytotoxicity in primary cultured mouse hepatocytes. UDN glycoprotein markedly inhibited the cell death induced by G/GO. These results suggest that UDN glycoprotein protects against CCl4-induced liver injury in the mouse.
Ginkgo biloba leaf extract (EGb 761) diminishes adriamycin-induced hyperlipidaemic nephrotoxicity in rats: association with nitric oxide production.	The aim of this experimental study was to investigate the effect of a standardized preparation of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) on the hyperlipidaemic nephrotoxicity and oxidative stress induced by a single intravenous injection (5 mg/kg) of adriamycin. EGb 761 was received daily thereafter by a gavage at the dose of 100 mg/kg for 35 consecutive days. EGb 761 administration significantly attenuated adriamycin-induced renal dysfunction, as assessed by measuring serum lipid profile, serum total protein, serum urea and Ccr (creatinine clearance). Furthermore, urinary excretions of protein and NAG (N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase; a marker of renal tubular injury) were significantly inhibited following EGb 761 administration. EGb 761 supplementation significantly prevented the generation of TBARS (thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances) with a marked improvement in terms of GSH content and activity of antioxidant enzymes in the kidney homogenate. Moreover, EGb 761 treatment significantly reduced both renal-tissue and urine total NO (nitric oxide) levels. The results suggest that the protective potential of EGb 761 in the prevention of adriamycin-induced hyperlipidaemic nephrotoxicity in rats was associated with the decrease in the oxidative stress and the total NO levels of renal tissues. Likewise, the present study demonstrates the ability of EGb 761 to reduce the hyperlipidaemia and proteinuria associated with this nephropathy, which might be beneficial to enhance the therapeutic index of adriamycin.
Increased oxidative stress and DNA damage in bipolar disorder: a twin-case report.	There is an emerging body of data suggesting that oxidative stress may be associated with the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD). In the present study we investigated the oxidative stress profile in two monozygotic twins during a manic episode.
Protective effects of fruit extracts of Hippophae rhamnoides L. against arsenic toxicity in Swiss albino mice.	Seabuckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.) berry has a long history of applications as a food and medicinal ingredient in eastern countries. The present study was carried out to investigate the effect of different fruit extracts of H. rhamnoides on altered biochemical parameters indicative of haematological alterations, tissue oxidative stress, and arsenic concentration in arsenic-exposed mice (2.5 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally). Two aqueous extracts (at room temperature and under reflux condition) and an ethanolic extract of H. rhamnoides at a dose of 500 mg/kg body weight were co-administered daily during arsenic exposure in mice for 3 weeks. Exposure to arsenic led to a significant inhibition of blood delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) activity, suggesting disturbed haem synthesis pathway. Arsenic also caused significant depletion of reduced hepatic glutathione (GSH) level, glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities, while it increased the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), suggesting liver oxidative stress. Most of the altered biochemical variables responded favorably to the co-supplementation of H. rhamnoides, particularly the aqueous fruit extract, extracted at room temperature (HF-WRT). However, arsenic concentration in blood and tissues remained unchanged, suggesting the lack of chelating property of fruit extract of H. rhamnoides. The present study, thus, led us to conclude that the fruit extract of H. rhamnoides has a significant protective role against arsenic-induced oxidative injury. However, it lacks the ability to remove arsenic from the binding sites, suggesting that the herbal extract could be co-administered with a chelating agent of known efficacy during treatment of arsenic to achieve the optimum effect of chelation treatment.
Protection by Ziziphora clinopoides of acetic acid-induced toxic bowel inflammation through reduction of cellular lipid peroxidation and myeloperoxidase activity.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic condition of the intestine with unknown etiology involving multiple immune, genetic and environmental factors. We were interested in examining the effect of a total extract from Ziziphora clinopoides, an Iranian folk herbal medicine, in the prevention and control of experimental mouse IBD. Z. clinopoides was administered (75, 150, 300 mg/kg) through drinking water to mice, which dispensed a toxic dose of acetic acid intrarectally. Prednisolone was used as the standard drug for comparison. Biochemical, macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the colon were performed. Biochemical evaluation of the inflamed colon was carried out using assays of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and thiobarbituric acid reacting substances (TBARS) as indicators of free radical activity and cellular lipid peroxidation. Results indicated that the activity of MPO and lipid peroxidation products (TBARS) increased in acetic acid-treated groups, while recovered by pretreatment of animals with Z. clinopoides (75-300 mg/kg) and prednisolone. All doses of Z. clinopoides and prednisolone-treated groups showed significant lower score values of macroscopic and microscopic characters when compared to the acetic acid-treated group. The beneficial effect of Z. clinopoides (300 mg/kg) was comparable to that of prednisolone. It is concluded that Z. clinopoides inhibits acetic acid toxic reactions in the mouse bowel through inhibition of cellular oxidative stress. Proper clinical investigation should be carried out to confirm the same activity in human.
Dose-response efficacy of caraway (Carum carvi L.) on tissue lipid peroxidation and antioxidant profile in rat colon carcinogenesis.	Colon cancer is a leading cause of cancer death and its prevention is of great interest throughout the world. This study was conducted to examine the efficacy of different doses of dietary caraway (Carum carvi L.) on tissue lipid peroxidation (LPO) and antioxidant profile in rat colon carcinogenesis. Wistar male rats were divided into 6 groups and were fed a modified pellet diet for the whole of 30 weeks. To induce colon cancer, rats were given a weekly subcutaneous injection of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) at a dose of 20 mg kg(-1) (based on body weight) for the first 15 weeks. Caraway was supplemented every day orally at doses of 30, 60 and 90 mg kg(-1) for different groups of rats for the total period of 30 weeks. All rats were sacrificed at the end of 30 weeks, the colons were examined visually for masses and were subsequently evaluated histologically. The results showed diminished levels of intestinal, colonic and caecal LPO products, such as conjugated dienes (CD), lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and also the antioxidants superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), reduced glutathione (GSH) and glutathione reductase (GR) in DMH treated rats, which were significantly reversed (P<0.05) on caraway supplementation. Moreover, enhanced activity of intestinal, colonic and caecal glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and colonic ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol levels were observed in carcinogen-treated rats, which were significantly (P<0.05) reduced on caraway supplementation. Thus, our study showed that caraway supplementation at a dose of 60 mg kg(-1) had a modulatory role on tissue LPO, antioxidant profile and prevented DMH-induced histopathological lesions in colon cancer rats.
The anti-inflammatory and antioxidants effects of micronized fenofibrate in patients with visceral obesity and dyslipidemia]	In recent studies it was observed the pleiotropic properties beyond hypolipemic effects of fenofibrate: anti-inflammatory, antioxidants effects, positive impact on glucose metabolism, thrombosis, fibrinolytic system endothelial dysfunction.
The role of docosahexaenoic acid on visual evoked potentials in one kidney-one clip hypertension.	To investigate the effects of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) on visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in a one kidney-one clip (1K-1C) hypertension model in rats.
Rhus verniciflua stokes extract: radical scavenging activities and protective effects on H2O2-induced cytotoxicity in macrophage RAW 264.7 cell lines.	The goal of this study was to determine the effects of Rhus verniciflua stokes (RVS) on the radical scavenging activities and H2O2-induced cytotoxicity in macrophage 264.7 cells. An 80% ethanol extract of RVS was purified by ion exchange chromatography (IEC). Purified RVS extract contained a high amount of phenolics (55.5 g/100 g of extract) and flavonoids (5.9 g/100 g of extract) and its antioxidant activities, such as DPPH, superoxide anion and hydroxyl radical scavenging activities, was higher than the unpurified RVS extract. Purified RVS extract significantly reduced intracellular ROS formation caused by H2O2. Purified RVS extract also prevented the cell death of macrophage RAW 264.7 cells induced by H2O2. Interestingly, co-treated purified RVS extract effectively reduced thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) formation, and attenuated catalase depletion at concentration of 100 microg/ml (p<0.05). Study using PDA-HPLC analyses have found that the purified RVS extract contains six major low molecular compounds as p-coumaric acid, fustin, kaempferol-3-O-glucoside, sulfuretin, butein and kaempferol. These results indicate that purified RVS extract, tested in this study, could contribute to the antioxidant activities and inhibition of intracellular ROS level.
Protective effect of sun ginseng against diabetic renal damage.	The effect of sun ginseng (SG, heat-processed Panax ginseng C. A. MEYER at 120 degrees C) on diabetic renal damage was investigated using streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The diabetic rats showed loss of body weight gain, and increases in food and water intake and urine volume, while the oral administration of SG at a dose of 50 or 100 mg/kg body weight/d for 15 d attenuated water intake and urine excretion induced by diabetes. In addition, the diabetic rats given SG at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight showed significant decreases in serum glucose, serum glycosylated protein and urinary protein levels, suggesting that SG improves the abnormal conditions that lead to oxidative stress. Furthermore, SG significantly reduced advanced glycation endproduct (AGE) formation and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels elevated in the kidneys of diabetic rats. This implies that SG would alleviate the oxidative stress under diabetes through the inhibition of lipid peroxidation. SG also reduced the overexpression of cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the kidney induced by hyperglycemia via deactivation the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B. Furthermore, treatment with SG decreased the levels of 3-nitrotyrosine, carboxymethyllysine and receptors for AGE which increase under diabetes. These findings indicate that oxidative stress is increased in the diabetic rat kidney and that SG can prevent renal damage associated with diabetes by attenuating the oxidative stress.
Prevention of cerebral oxidative injury by post-ischemic intravenous administration of Shengmai San.	Shengmai San (SMS) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) comprising three different herbal components, Panax ginseng, Ohiopogon japonicus and Fructus schisandrae and has been used for treating coronary heart diseases (Bensky and Barolet, 1990). It was shown that SMS effectively prevented cerebral oxidative injury in rats when it administered into the duodenum before cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. In the present study, we examined whether post-ischemic administration of SMS can ameliorate cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats as well. Results showed that SMS injected immediately after ischemia also prevented the ischemia-reperfusion injury, when the effect was evaluated by the formation of protein carbonyl and thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), and the loss of glutathione peroxidase (GPX). The preventative potential of SMS was decreased rapidly dependent on the time lag until SMS was injected after ischemia. However, it was noted that intravenously administered SMS protected the oxidative injury approximately 30% even after 60 min of reperfusion in terms of protein carbonyl formation. It is thus suggested that SMS injection might be useful for preventing the progression of injury in cerebral infarction after stroke.
Exercise-induced oxidative stress in G6PD-deficient individuals.	This study was designed to investigate whether individuals with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency can exercise without greater perturbations in their redox status compared with non-G6PD-deficient individuals.
The overexpression of NADPH-producing enzymes counters the oxidative stress evoked by gallium, an iron mimetic.	Gallium (Ga), an iron (Fe) mimetic promoted an oxidative environment and elicited an antioxidative response in Pseudomonas fluorescens. Ga-stressed P. fluorescens was characterized by higher amounts of oxidized lipids and proteins compared to control cells. The oxidative environment provoked by Ga was nullified by increased synthesis of NADPH. The activity and expression glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and isocitrate dehydrogenase-NADP (ICDH) were stimulated in Ga-cultures. The induction of isoenzymes of these dehydrogenases was also evident in the Ga-stressed cells. Although superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was significantly enhanced in Ga-stressed cultures, catalase activity experienced a marked diminution. Fe metabolism appeared to be severely impeded by Ga toxicity. This is the first demonstration of the oxidative stress evoked by Ga to be neutralized by a reductive environment generated via the overexpression of NADPH-producing enzymes.
Oxidative injury and antioxidants in coronary artery bypass graft surgery: off-pump CABG significantly reduces oxidative stress.	Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) can now be performed with or without cardiopulmonary bypass. The former entails global ischemia followed by reperfusion after declamping, whereas the latter does not. In view of growing evidence that reperfusion is associated with oxidative stress, we studied the extent of oxidative stress and antioxidant status in patients undergoing on-pump and off-pump CABG to determine whether the latter significantly reduces oxidative stress.
Antioxidant effect of Cytisus scoparius against carbon tetrachloride treated liver injury in rats.	The study was aimed to investigate the antioxidant activity of Cytisus scoparius L. (Family: Leguminosae) on CCl(4) (carbon tetrachloride) treated oxidative stress in Wistar albino rats. CCl(4) injection induced oxidative stress by a significant rise in serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminases (SGOT), serum glutamate pyruvate transaminases (SGPT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) along with reduction of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-s-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase (GRD). Pretreatment of rats with different doses of plant extract (250 and 500mg/kg) significantly lowered SGOT, SGPT, LDH and TBARS levels against CCl(4) treated rats. GSH and hepatic enzymes like SOD, CAT, GPx, GRD, and GST were significantly increased by treatment with the plant extract, against CCl(4) treated rats. The activity of extract at the dose of 500mg/kg was comparable to the standard drug, silymarin (25mg/kg). Based on these results, it was observed that Cytisus scoparius extract protects liver from oxidative stress induced by CCl(4) in rats and thus helps in evaluation of the traditional claim on this plant.
Wound healing activity of NOE-aspirin: a pre-clinical study.	Aspirin, one of the oldest non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, impedes tissue repair by virtue of retarding inflammation. The present study was undertaken to find out if linking of nitrooxyethyl ester to aspirin reverses its healing-depressant propensity. Nitrooxyethyl ester of aspirin (NOE-Asp) was synthesized in our laboratory through well-established synthetic pathway, starting from aspirin through esterification with ethylene glycol and nitration with a mixture of nitric and sulfuric acids at 0 degrees C. The effect of NOE-Asp on phases of healing such as collagenation, wound contraction and epithelialization and on scar size of healed wound was evaluated in three wound models-incision, dead space, and excision wounds. To assess its influence on the oxidative stress, the levels of glutathione (GSH) and thiobarbiturate reactive species (TBARS) were also determined in 10-day-old granulation tissue. NOE-Asp was further screened for its anti-inflammatory activity in rat paw edema model. NOE-Asp promoted collagenation (increase in breaking strength, granulation weight, and collagen content), wound contraction, and epithelialization phases of healing. NOE-Asp also showed a significant antioxidant effect in 10-day-old granulation tissue as compared to aspirin. The results vindicate our assumption that the esterification of aspirin with nirooxyethyl group reverses the healing-suppressant effect of aspirin. The compound also showed equipotent anti-inflammatory activity as aspirin.
Beneficial effects of docosahexaenoic acid on active avoidance performance in 1K-1C hypertensive rats.	The present study evaluated the role of chronic docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplementation on active avoidance learning task performance in experimental hypertension. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into five experimental groups as follows: control, sham, DHA treated, 1K-1C hypertensive, and 1K-1C hypertensive+DHA treated. Hypertension was induced in 1K-1C rats via placing a silver clip (0.20-mm ID) around the left renal artery following a right uninephrectomy. DHA (36 mg/kg/day) was given to the treatment groups for 60 days by gastric gavage. Arterial blood pressure was measured by using the tail-cuff method. Active avoidance responses were determined by an automated shuttle-box. In brain (cerebrum) and hippocampus tissues, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and nitrite levels were measured by fluorometric methods. DHA supplementation decreased blood pressure in hypertensive rats. Data from active avoidance training indicated that performance of active avoidance learning tasks were significantly impaired in 1K-1C hypertensive rats, but was completely restored by DHA supplementation. Increased cerebrum TBARS levels in 1K-1C rats were abolished by DHA administration. Cerebrum nitrite levels were lower in the DHA, 1K-1C and 1K-1C+DHA treated groups compared to controls. Hippocampus nitrite levels were lower in DHA treated and 1K-1C hypertensive rats compared to controls and higher in 1K-1C+DHA treated rats compared to the 1K-1C group. Our data indicates that DHA supplementation improves the performance of active avoidance learning tasks which is impaired in experimental hypertension. These affirmative changes might be due to a DHA-induced decrease in lipid peroxidation which may in turn limit the consumption of nitric oxide (NO) which promotes active avoidance learning.
Herb medicine Yin-Chen-Hao-Tang ameliorates hepatic fibrosis in bile duct ligation rats.	The accumulation of hydrophilic bile acids in the liver is considered to play a pivotal role in the induction of hepatic injury. Yin-Chen-Hao-Tang (YCHT) decoction is an aqueous extract from three different herbs: Artemisia capillaries Thunb (Compositae), Gardenia jasminoides Ellis (Rubiaceae), Rheum officinale Baill (Polygonaceae), which has been recognized as a hepatoprotective agent for various types of liver diseases. Therefore, we used an experimental of biliary atresia model to test that YCHT plays a regulatory role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis. Hepatic damage with fibrosis was produced by common bile duct ligation (BDL) for 27 days in experimental cholestasis animal model. After surgery, YCHT (250 and 500mg/kg BW) oral administration once a day continued for 27 days. BDL caused a prominent liver collagen deposition that was supported by the increased alpha-SMA protein and mRNA expression of procollagen I. YCHT significantly decreased hepatic alpha-SMA protein levels and decreased in hydroxyproline and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels of BDL rats. On the other hand, the normalizing effect of YCHT (250mg/kg) on the TGF-beta1mRNA expression was independent on the dose of YCHT, 500mg/kg was not effectively changed the quantitative composition of mRNA levels. The study shows that hepatic hydroxyproline accumulation caused by hydrophilic bile acids accompanied by elevated hepatic lipid peroxidation, and hepatic collagen levels can be decreased in the presence of YCHT. In conclusion, long-term administration of YCHT in rats ameliorated the hydropholic bile acids induced hepatic injury that probably related to a reduced oxidant stress and degree of hepatic fibrosis.
Effects of retinoic acid on the development of liver fibrosis produced by carbon tetrachloride in mice.	The role of retinoic acid (RA) in liver fibrogenesis was previously studied in cultured hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). RA suppresses the expression of alpha2(I) collagen by means of the activities of specific nuclear receptors RARalpha, RXRbeta and their coregulators. In this study, the effects of RA in fibrogenesis were examined in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) induced liver fibrosis in mice. Mice were treated with CCl4 or RA and CCl4, along side control groups, for 12weeks. RA reduced the amount of histologically detectable fibrosis produced by CCl4. This was accompanied by a attenuation of the CCl4 induced increase in alpha2(I) collagen mRNA and a lower (2-fold versus 3-fold) increase in liver hydroxyproline. Furthermore, RA reduced the levels of 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) protein adducts and thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactive substance (TBARS) in the liver, which are formed as results of oxidative stress induced by CCl4 treatment. These in vivo findings support our previous in vitro studies in cultured HSC of the inhibitory effect of RA on type I collagen expression. The data also provide evidence that RA reduces CCl4 induced oxidative stress in liver, suggesting that the anti-fibrotic role of RA is not limited to the inhibition of type I collagen expression.
Oxidative stress status and development of late organogenesis stage rat whole embryos cultured from gestational days 13.5 to 14.5.	A new method for culturing rodent whole embryos at the late organogenesis stage was developed using a roller-bottle system with intermittent gassing. Rat embryos were cultured for 24 h from gestational day (GD) 13.5 to 14.5. Growth and metabolic comparisons were made between in vivo embryos and embryos of the same GD cultured under various media and conditions. Crown-rump length, head length and protein content were used as growth indicators. Biologic markers such as embryonic tissue concentration of glutathione (GSH), glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and lipid peroxidation were used as assessments of metabolic activity in terms of oxidative stress. Embryos cultured with media consisting of either 15% or 20% male rat serum and balanced with Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) were found to most closely match in vivo embryos. 6 h gassing intervals and 5 mL medium volume/embryo provided optimal conditions for cultured embryos. By shortening the 24 h embryo culture period to 12 h, embryonic haemorrhaging was avoided. Moreover, the 12-h cultured embryos showed similar redox GSH/GSSG ratios and similar GSH content to the in vivo embryos, which was not observed in the embryos cultured under 24 h culture conditions. The present work demonstrates the utility of late organogenesis stage embryo culture as a model for the assessment of in vivo embryonic growth and oxidative stress indices.
Edaravone reduces ischemia-reperfusion injury mediators in rat liver.	In hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury, oxidative stress both directly injures the liver and promotes an inflammatory reaction by up-regulating various inflammatory mediators. We investigated whether edaravone, a new hydroxy radical scavenger, could reduce hepatic I/R injury including expression of inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and adhesion molecules.
Polyamines and heavy metal stress: the antioxidant behavior of spermine in cadmium- and copper-treated wheat leaves.	Polyamine metabolism, as well as spermine (Spm) antioxidant properties, were studied in wheat leaves under Cd2+ or Cu2+ stress. The oxidative damage produced by both metals was evidenced by an increased of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and a significant decrease in glutathione under both metal treatments. Ascorbate peroxidase (APOX) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities were reduced by both metals to values ranging from 30% to 64% of the control values. Conversely, copper produced a raise in superoxide dismutase activity. The high putrescine (Put) content detected under Cd2+ stress (282% over the control) was induced by the increased activity of both enzymes involved in Put biosynthesis, arginine decarboxylase (ADC) and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC). However, only ODC activity was increased in wheat leaves subjected to Cu2+ stress, leading to a lower Put rise (89% over the controls). Spermidine (Spd) content was not affected by metal treatments, while Spm was significantly reduced. Pretreatment with Spm completely reverted the metals-induced TBARS increase whereas metals-dependent H2O2 deposition on leaf segments (revealed using diaminobenzidine), was considerably reduced in Spm pretreated leaf segments. This polyamine failed to reverse the depletion in APOX activity and glutathione (GSH) content produced by Cd2+ and Cu2+, although it showed an efficient antioxidant behavior in the restoration of GR activity to control values. These results suggest that Spm could be exerting a certain antioxidant function by protecting the tissues from the metals-induced oxidative damage, though this effect was not enough to completely avoid Cd2+ and Cu2+ effect on certain antioxidant enzymes, though the precise mechanism of protection still needs to be elucidated.
Metabolic adaptations to mercury-induced oxidative stress in roots of Medicago sativa L.	Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) roots were treated with mercuric ions in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, and lipid peroxidation was studied biochemically as well as histochemically along with other physiological responses. Histochemical staining with Schiff's reagent and Evans blue revealed that the peroxidation of membrane lipids and loss of plasma membrane integrity in Hg-treated roots occurred in the meristem and the elongation zone. The histochemical observations were supported by the quantitative determinations of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). However, under the mercuric ions stress, the alfalfa plants showed no significant alteration of hydrogen peroxide in roots. Analysis of lipoxygenase activity by non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) showed that there were two isoforms in the root of alfalfa plants, but they showed quite different patterns under the Hg exposure. Also, using non-denaturing PAGE, activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) were determined in roots after treatment with Hg ions. The total activities of SOD and POD increased in roots after Hg treatment of roots. Activity of ascorbate peroxides (APX) was stimulated at relatively high concentration of Hg (40microM), and after prolonged Hg exposure (20microM, 24h). In contrast, glutathione reductase activity was depressed at higher concentrations of Hg (10-20microM). Treatments of seedlings with 10-40microM Hg decreased the ascorbate and glutathione amounts but increased total non-protein thiols. The above results indicated that Hg exerted its toxic effect on the root growth of alfalfa by induction of oxidative stress.
Cytotoxic effect of ciprofloxacin in primary culture of rat astrocytes and protection by Vitamin E.	The aim of this study was to investigate the possible cytotoxic and oxidative stress inducing effects of ciprofloxacin (CPFX) on primary cultures of rat astrocytes. The cultured cells were incubated with various concentrations of CPFX (0.5-300mg/l), and cytotoxicity was determined by neutral red (NR) and MTT assays. Survival profile of cells was biphasic in NR assay: CPFX did not cause any alteration at any concentration for 7h, whereas < or =50mg/l concentrations induced significant cell proliferation in incubation periods of 24, 48, 72, and 96h. However, cell proliferation gradually decreased at higher concentrations, and 200 and 300mg/l of CPFX exposure was found to be significantly (p<0.05) cytotoxic at all time periods. With MTT assay, no alteration was noted for incubation period of 7h, as observed with NR assay. But, cell viability decreased with approximately > or =50mg/l CPFX exposure in all other time periods. Cell proliferation was only seen in 24h of incubation with 0.5 and 5mg/l CPFX. Vitamin E pretreatment of cell cultures were found to be providing complete protection against cytotoxicity of 300mg/l CPFX in 96h incubation when measured with both NR and MTT assays. The SOD pretreatment was partially protective with NR assay, but no protection was noted when measured with MTT. A significant enhancement of lipid peroxidation was observed with the cytotoxic concentration of the drug, but total glutathione content and catalase activity of cells did not change. The data obtained in this study suggest that, in accordance with our previous results with fibroblast cells, CPFX-induced cytotoxicity is related to oxidative stress. And the biphasic effect of CPFX possibly resulted from the complex dose-dependent relationships between reactive oxygen species, cell proliferation, and cell viability.
Anti-inflammatory effect of melatonin on A beta vaccination in mice.	A beta vaccination as a therapeutic intervention of Alzheimer's has many challenges, key among them is the regulation of inflammatory processes concomitant with excessive generation of free radicals seen during such interventions. Here we report the beneficial effects of melatonin on inflammation associated with A beta vaccination in the central and peripheral nervous system of mice. Mice were divided into three groups (n=8 in each): control, inflammation (IA), and melatonin-treated (IAM). The brain, liver, and spleen samples were collected after 5 days for quantitative assessment of plasma lipid peroxides (LPO), an oxidative stress marker, and antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (Gpx). IA group mice have shown the elevated concentration of LPO significantly while there was a reduction at antioxidant enzyme levels. In addition, a significant (P<0.05) reduction in neurotransmitters like dopamine (DA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and norepinephrine (NE) was also observed in the IA group mice. Nevertheless, their metabolites, such as homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) increased significantly (P<0.05) as compared to control. Samples were further evaluated at microscopic level to examine the neuropathological changes by immunohistochemical methods. Melatonin treatment effectively reversed these above changes and normalized the LPO and antioxidant enzyme levels (P<0.05). Furthermore, melatonin salvaged the brain cells from inflammation. Our Immunohistochemical findings in the samples of melatonin-treated animals (IAM group) indicated diminished expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and nuclear factor kappa B (Nf kappa B) than those observed in the IA group samples. Our results suggest that administration of melatonin protects inflammation associated with A beta vaccination, through its direct and indirect actions and it can be an effective adjuvant in the development of vaccination in immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Prion protein does not redox-silence Cu2+, but is a sacrificial quencher of hydroxyl radicals.	Oxidative stress is believed to play a central role in the pathogenesis of prion diseases, a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders associated with a conformational change in the prion protein (PrP(C)). The precise physiological function of PrP(C) remains uncertain; however, Cu(2+) binds to PrP(C) in vivo, suggesting a role for PrP(C) in copper homeostasis. Here we examine the oxidative processes associated with PrP(C) and Cu(2+). (1)H NMR was used to monitor chemical modifications of PrP fragments. Incubation of PrP fragments with ascorbate and CuCl(2) showed specific metal-catalyzed oxidation of histidine residues, His(96/111), and the methionine residues, Met(109/112). The octarepeat region protects His(96/111) and Met(109/112) from oxidation, suggesting that PrP(90-231) might be more prone to chemical modification. We show that Cu(2+/+) redox cycling is not 'silenced' by Cu(2+) binding to PrP, as indicated by H(2)O(2) production for full-length PrP. Surprisingly, although detection of Cu(+) indicates that the octarepeat region of PrP is capable of reducing Cu(2+) even in the absence of ascorbate, H(2)O(2) is not generated unless ascorbate is present. Full-length PrP and fragments cause a dramatic reduction in detectable hydroxyl radicals in an ascorbate/Cu(2+)/O(2) system; however, levels of H(2)O(2) production are unaffected. This suggests that PrP does not affect levels of hydroxyl radical production via Fentons cycling, but the radicals cause highly localized chemical modification of PrP(C).
Vitamin E protects against lipid peroxidation due to cold-SO2 coexposure in mouse lung.	Exposure to sulfur dioxide (SO2) and cold increases especially in the winter. SO2 or cold exposure destroys the oxidant/antioxidant balance and increases lipid peroxidation. However, the effect of coexistence of both factors has not been studied yet. Therefore, we investigated the effect of SO2 and/or repeated short-term cold exposure on the oxidant-antioxidant status and the possible protective role of vitamin E in the cardiopulmonary tissues of mice. Swiss albino mice of both sexes were assigned to eight groups. Four groups were kept at room temperature, injected either with saline or vitamin E (100 mg/kg) in the presence or absence of SO2 exposure (10 ppm, 1 h/day, 30 days). The remaining four groups received the same protocol but were exposed to cold (4 +/- 1 degrees C, 1 h/days, 30 days) instead of room temperature. On day 30, the lung and heart tissues were removed for biochemical analysis. SO2 and cold coexposure increased lactate level in the lung, and elevated thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) and reduced glutathione levels in both tissues, while vitamin E treatment reversed TBARS increment predominantly in the lung. In conclusion, cold and SO2 coexposure exerts more deleterious effects in the cardiopulmonary tissues, while vitamin E treatment seems to be protective, particularly in the lung.
Amphiphilic NO-donor antioxidants.	Models of amphiphilic NO-donor antioxidants 24-26 were designed and synthesized. The products were obtained by linking a lipophilic tail (C(6), C(8), C(10)) with a polar head constituted by the 2,6-dimethoxyphenol antioxidant joined to the NO-donor 3-furoxancarboxamide substructure through a bridge containing a quaternary ammonium group. Compound 23, containing the shortest C(2)-alkyl chain, was also studied as a reference. The antioxidant properties (TBARS and LDL oxidation assays) and the vasodilator properties of the compounds were studied in vitro. The ability of these products to interact with phospholipid vesicles was also investigated by NMR techniques. The results indicate that both activities are modulated by the ability of the compounds to accumulate on phospholipid layers.
Effect of therapeutic pulsed ultrasound on parameters of oxidative stress in skeletal muscle after injury.	Contusion injuries are a very common form of both athletic and non-athletic injury, that effect muscle function. Treatments to augment the normal repair and regeneration processes are important for a wide variety of patients. Therapeutic ultrasound has been claimed to promote tissue repair, especially by enhancing cell proliferation and protein synthesis. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of therapeutic pulsed ultrasound (TPU) on parameters of oxidative stress, namely thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), protein carbonyl content and the activities of antioxidant enzymes, catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD), in skeletal muscle after injury. Wistar rats were submitted to an animal model of muscle (gastrocnemius) laceration. TPU was used once a day. One, three or five days after muscle laceration, the animals were killed by decapitation and oxidative stress parameters were evaluated. Serum CK levels were increased in muscle-injured animals, indicating that the laceration animal model was successful. TBARS were not altered after muscle injury, when compared to the sham group. Protein carbonyl content was increased after muscle laceration. Catalase and SOD activities were increased 1 day after muscle injury and not altered at days 3 and 5. TPU decreased TBARS levels after muscle laceration when compared to injured muscle animals without treatment. Protein carbonyl content evaluation presented similar results. It is tempting to speculate that TPU seems to protect the tissue from oxidative injury. TPU diminished catalase and SOD activities, especially on the first day following muscle laceration.
The effect of sulfur dioxide inhalation on active avoidance learning, antioxidant status and lipid peroxidation during aging.	The effect of SO2 was examined on active avoidance learning, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and the activities of Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and catalase (CAT) in young (3 months), middle-age (12 months ), and old (24 months) Swiss male albino rats. Ten ppm SO2 was administered to the animals of SO2 groups in an exposure chamber for 1 h/day x 7 days/week x 6 weeks while control groups were exposed to filtered air in the same condition. The most prominent effect of aging on active performance was also observed in the older group. SO2 exposure significantly decreased the active avoidance learning in the young group, but it had no effect on this parameter in the middle-aged and the older group compared with their corresponding control groups. SO2 exposure resulted in increased levels of Cu, Zn-SOD activity while decreased level of GSH-Px activity in all experimental groups compared with their corresponding control groups. CAT activities were unaltered. TBARS levels of all SO2 exposed groups were significantly increased compared with their respective control groups. In conclusion, results from the present research showed that SO2 exposure resulted in an increase in the lipid peroxidation and caused alterations in antioxidant enzyme activities. Additionally, SO2 exposure impaired cognitive function only in the young rats during the acquisition phase of active avoidance learning.
Impaired effect of salt loading on nitric oxide-mediated relaxation in aortas from stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.	1. The present study was designed to characterize the effects of salt on vasorelaxation via the nitric oxide (NO)/cGMP pathway in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP), which are highly salt sensitive. 2. Male 8-week-old SHRSP were given 1% NaCl solution as drinking water for 4 weeks, whereas control animals were given water only. 3. In aortic rings from salt-loaded SHRSP, relaxations in response to acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside were significantly impaired compared with those in the control. In the presence of zaprinast, a cGMP-specific cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE)-5 inhibitor, the cGMP levels induced by these drugs were significantly reduced by salt loading, but remained unchanged in the absence of zaprinast. The protein levels of endothelial NO synthase, soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) and cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) remained unchanged with salt loading, but those of PDE-5 decreased significantly and those of phosphorylated PKG tended to decrease, although the change was not statistically significant. Salt loading significantly impaired the relaxation in response to 8-bromo-cGMP. 4. These results indicate that, in aortas from SHRSP, salt loading causes impairment of relaxation in response to NO, which may be due to a decrease in cGMP production by sGC and impairment of the relaxation pathway downstream of cGMP, which, in turn, probably causes a decrease in PKG activity. Reduced PDE-5 protein expression may act, in part, as a compensatory response to impairment of cGMP-mediated relaxation.
Changes in Hsp60 level of the failing heart following acute myocardial infarction and the effect of long-term treatment with trandolapril.	Changes in heat shock protein (Hsp) 60 of the viable left ventricular muscle (viable LV) after myocardial infarction in rats and the effect of the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) trandolapril were examined. Myocardial infarction was induced in rats by ligation of the left coronary artery. The coronary artery-ligated (CAL) and sham-operated (Sham) rats were orally treated with 3 mg/kg/d trandolapril from the 2nd to 8th week after surgery. Hemodynamic parameters and tissue weights of the left and right ventricles of the animals at the 8th week after CAL (8w-CAL rats) showed signs indicating chronic heart failure. An increase in Hsp60 content, a decrease in mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate (OCR), and an increase in the mitochondrial thiobarbiturate-reacting substance (TRS) of the viable LV were detected. Eight weeks after CAL. Long-term treatment of the CAL rats with trandolapril improved the hemodynamic parameters, attenuated the CAL-induced increase in Hsp60 content, the decrease in mitochondrial OCR, and the increase in the mitochondrial TRS content of the viable LV at the 8th week after myocardial infarction. The increase in Hsp60 content was closely related to the decrease in the mitochondrial OCR and to a rise in the LVEDP of the CAL animal at the 8th week after myocardial infarction. These results suggest that a series of pathophysiological alterations, including a reduction in mitochondrial function, appearance of reactive oxygen stress, and production of Hsp60 is involved in the development of cardiac failure and that trandolapril is beneficial for preventing these alterations.
Fat-loaded HepG2 spheroids exhibit enhanced protection from Pro-oxidant and cytokine induced damage.	The mechanisms by which steatosis renders hepatocytes susceptible to damage in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are unclear although fat accumulation is believed to increase hepatocyte susceptibility to inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress. We therefore investigated the susceptibility of steatotic, hepatocyte-derived cells to TNFalpha and the pro-oxidant, t-butylhydroperoxide (TBH). HepG2 spheroids rendered steatotic by fat-loading with 0.15 mM oleic or palmitic acid for 48 h and treated with TNFalpha or TBH for 18 h exhibited surprisingly lower levels of cytotoxicity, and increased anti-oxidant activity (superoxide dismutase (SOD)) compared with non fat-loaded controls. The protective effect of steatosis was significantly reversed by the inhibition of AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) since spheroids transfected with a kinase-dead AMPKalpha2 subunit, exhibited a significant increase in TBH-induced cytotoxicity when fat-loaded. In conclusion, our findings suggest that fat-loaded hepatocyte-derived cells are surprisingly less susceptible to cytokine and pro-oxidant induced damage via an adaptive mechanism dependent, in part, on AMPK activity.
Effect of clomazone herbicide on biochemical and histological aspects of silver catfish (Rhamdia quelen) and recovery pattern.	The effects of the herbicide, clomazone, on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), catalase and TBARS formation in teleost fish (Rhamdia quelen) were studied. The fish were exposed to 0.5 or 1.0 mg L(-1) of clomazone for 12, 24, 48, 96 and 192 h. After 192 h of exposure period, fish were transferred to clean water and kept in the same for 192 h to study the recovery response. Same parameters as that of exposure period were assayed after 96 and 192 h of recovery period. Specific AChE activity was reduced in the brain and muscle after treatments, reaching a maximum inhibition of 47% in the brain and 45% in the muscle after 12h of exposure. Fish exposed to clomazone increased TBARS production in the liver for all exposure periods. The brain presented elevated TBARS levels after 12, 24 and 48 h, but after 96 and 192 h, these levels decreased. The decrease of TBARS levels persisted in brain tissue after 96 h of recovery and returned to the control value after 192 h in clean water. Catalase activity was reduced for all periods of exposure. Histological analysis showed vacuolation in the liver after herbicide exposure. Some of the alterations observed were completely restored after recovery period.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase plays a pivotal role in nitric oxide-involved defense against oxidative stress under salt stress in red kidney bean roots.	The pivotal role of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH)-mediated nitric oxide (NO) production in the tolerance to oxidative stress induced by 100 mM NaCl in red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) roots was investigated. The results show that the G-6-PDH activity was enhanced rapidly in the presence of NaCl and reached a maximum at 100 mM. Western blot analysis indicated that the increase of G-6-PDH activity in the red kidney bean roots under 100 mM NaCl was mainly due to the increased content of the G-6-PDH protein. NO production and nitrate reductase (NR) activity were also induced by 100 mM NaCl. The NO production was reduced by NaN(3) (an NR inhibitor), but not affected by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) (an NOS inhibitor). Application of 2.5 mM Na(3)PO(4), an inhibitor of G-6-PDH, blocked the increase of G-6-PDH and NR activity, as well as NO production in red kidney bean roots under 100 mM NaCl. The activities of antioxidant enzymes in red kidney bean roots increased in the presence of 100 mM NaCl or sodium nitroprusside (SNP), an NO donor. The increased activities of all antioxidant enzymes tested at 100 mM NaCl were completely inhibited by 2.5 mM Na(3)PO(4). Based on these results, we conclude that G-6-PDH plays a pivotal role in NR-dependent NO production, and in establishing tolerance of red kidney bean roots to salt stress.
Cyclic AMP signaling contributes to neural plasticity and hyperexcitability in AH sensory neurons following intestinal Trichinella spiralis-induced inflammation.	Trichinella spiralis infection causes hyperexcitability in enteric after-hyperpolarising (AH) sensory neurons that is mimicked by neural, immune or inflammatory mediators known to stimulate adenylyl cyclase (AC)/cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling. The hypothesis was tested that ongoing modulation and sustained amplification in the AC/cAMP/phosphorylated cAMP related element binding protrein (pCREB) signaling pathway contributes to hyperexcitability and neuronal plasticity in gut sensory neurons after nematode infection. Electrophysiological, immunological, molecular biological or immunochemical studies were done in T. spiralis-infected guinea-pigs (8000 larvae or saline) after acute-inflammation (7 days) or 35 days p.i., after intestinal clearance. Acute-inflammation caused AH-cell hyperexcitability and elevated mucosal and neural tissue levels of myeloperoxidase, mast cell tryptase, prostaglandin E2, leukotrine B4, lipid peroxidation, nitric oxide and gelatinase; lower level inflammation persisted 35 days p.i. Acute exposure to blockers of AC, histamine, cyclooxygenase or leukotriene pathways suppressed AH-cell hyperexcitability in a reversible manner. Basal cAMP responses or those evoked by forskolin (FSK), Ro-20-1724, histamine or substance P in isolated myenteric ganglia were augmented after T. spiralis infection; up-regulation also occurred in AC expression and AC-immunoreactivity in calbindin (AH) neurons. The cAMP-dependent slow excitatory synaptic transmission-like responses to histamine (mast cell mediator) or substance P (neurotransmitter) acting via G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) in AH neurons were augmented by up to 2.5-fold after T. spiralis infection. FSK, histamine, substance P or T. spiralis acute infection caused a 5- to 30-fold increase in cAMP-dependent nuclear CREB phosphorylation in isolated ganglia or calbindin (AH) neurons. AC and CREB phosphorylation remained elevated 35 days p.i.. Ongoing immune activation, AC up-regulation, enhanced phosphodiesterase IV activity and facilitation of the GPCR-AC/cAMP/pCREB signaling pathway contributes to T. spiralis-induced neuronal plasticity and AH-cell hyperexcitability. This may be relevant in gut nematode infections and inflammatory bowel diseases, and is a potential therapeutic target.
Neuroendocrine disruption and health effects in Elliptio complanata mussels exposed to aeration lagoons for wastewater treatment.	The purpose of this study was to examine neuroendocrine-disrupting effects of two domestic wastewater aeration lagoons on freshwater mussels. Mussels were caged and placed in two final aeration lagoons for treating domestic wastewaters for 60 days, at a site 1km downstream of the dispersion plume on the eastern shores of the Richelieu River; the western shore served as the reference site. The mussels were analysed for gonad activity, oxidative metabolism of xenobiotics, stress biomarkers and neuroendocrine status (monoamine and arachidonic acid metabolism). The domestic wastewaters produced many different effects at all levels examined. The gonado-somatic index and vitellogenin-like proteins were significantly induced in both aeration lagoons and gonad pyrimidine synthesis (aspartate transcarbamylase activity) was significantly reduced, indicating that vitellogenin-like proteins were produced while DNA synthesis in gametes remained constant. Biomarkers of oxidative metabolism revealed that global heme oxidase (HO), glutathione S-transferase and xanthine (caffeine) oxydoreductase (XOR) activities were significantly induced in at least one of the aeration lagoons, but not downstream of the dispersion plume. The activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin (cytochrome P4501A1), dibenzoylfluorescein (cytochrome P450 3A4 and 3A5) and benzoyloxyresorurufin (cytochrome P450 3A4 and 2B6) dealkylases were readily induced by substances sharing structural similarities with coplanar polyaromatic hydrocarbons and hydroxylated or aminated aromatic or cyclic hydrocarbon compounds such as pharmaceuticals or steroids in the domestic wastewaters. Biomarkers of toxic stress revealed that exposure to aeration lagoons led to increased production of metallothioneins, lipid peroxidation and DNA strand breaks, with decreased heme oxygenase activity. LPO was significantly correlated with XOR, HO and cytochrome P4501A1 activities. Neuroendocrine effects included significant increases in dopamine and serotonin levels and in monoamine oxidase (MAO). Dopamine transport in synaptosome was significantly increased while serotonin transport activity was significantly decreased, suggesting the mussels were in a state of serotonergicity. Moreover, arachidonic acid cyclooxygenase (COX) activity was also readily increased in one aeration lagoon. Aeration lagoons for the treatment of domestic wastewaters are toxic, estrogenic and disrupt the metabolism of monoamines and COX in freshwater mussels.
Zinc attenuates malathion-induced depressant-like behavior and confers neuroprotection in the rat brain.	Malathion is an organophosphate widely used as an insecticide in agriculture and in public health programs, causing risk to human health. As was recently reported, malathion induces depressant-like behavior and oxidative damage to the brain of rodents. Given the relevance of searching for neuroprotective agents against such damage, this study was therefore undertaken to investigate the neuroprotective potential of zinc in dealing with malathion-related toxicity. Female Wistar rats were exposed to malathion (50 and 100 mg/kg, ip) and/or zinc chloride (ZnCl2; 5 mg/kg, ip) for 3 days. Malathion produced a depressant-like effect, observed by the increased immobility time in the forced swimming test (FST), without affecting total locomotor activity and rearing in the open-field. However, malathion administered at 50 mg/kg reduced the central time in the arena and at the dose of 100 mg/kg reduced the central locomotion. These effects were completely reversed by ZnCl2. Exposure to malathion (50 mg/kg, ip) and/or ZnCl2 did not affect AChE activity in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and blood. Malathion (50 mg/kg, ip) alone caused some harmful effects, such as (1) an increase in lipid peroxidation and a reduction of glutathione peroxidase activity in the cerebral cortex, (2) reduction of glutathione reductase activity in the hippocampus, and (3) changes in the structure of chromatin in the dentate gyrus, all effects attenuated by ZnCl2. In conclusion, these results clearly show that zinc administration is able to attenuate some neurochemical, morphological, and behavioral effects induced by malathion, notably the malathion-induced depressant-like effect in the FST.
Increased oxidative stress indices in the blood of child swimmers.	The blood redox status of child athletes is compared with that of age-matched untrained individuals. In the present study, 17 swimmers (10.1 +/- 1.6 years) and 12 non-athletes (9.9 +/- 1.1 years) participated. Reduced glutathione (GSH) was lower by 37% in swimmers compared to non-athletes (P < 0.01), oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was not different and their ratio (GSH/GSSG) was lower by 43% in swimmers compared to non-athletes (P < 0.01). Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances concentration was higher by 25% in swimmers compared to controls. Catalase exhibited a strong trend toward lower levels in swimmers (P = 0.08). Finally, total antioxidant capacity was found lower by 28% in swimmers compared to controls (P < 0.05). In conclusion, we report that children participating in swimming training exhibit increased oxidative stress and less antioxidant capacity compared to untrained counterparts and suggest that children may be more susceptible to oxidative stress induced by chronic exercise.
Antidiabetic effect of long-term supplementation with Siraitia grosvenori on the spontaneously diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rat.	Siraitia grosvenori Swingle (SG) is a traditional Chinese fruit used as a folk medicine. Its extract (SG-ex) contains potent sweet elements with a sweetness several hundred times higher than table sugar. We investigated the antidiabetic effect of SG-ex in the type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat. Diabetic 7-week-old GK rats were fed a diet supplemented with 0.4 % of the SG-ex for 13 weeks, and its antidiabetic effects were evaluated. SG-ex had no effect on food intake or body weight. In oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT), SG-ex supplementation improved the insulin response at 15 min (control, 63 (sem 6) pm; SG-ex, 107 (sem 20) pm; P < 0.05) and reduced the plasma glucose level at 120 min after the glucose administration (control, 18.5 (sem 0.8) mm; SG-ex, 14.8 (sem 0.7) mm; P < 0.05). The total amount of insulin in whole pancreas taken from fasting rats was higher in the SG-ex-supplemented group, which may explain the greater capacity to secrete insulin during the OGTT. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in both the liver and the plasma were lower in the SG-ex-supplemented group, suggesting that an absorbable component in SG-ex has an antioxidative effect on lipid peroxidation, thereby counteracting the oxidative stress caused by a diabetic state. Excreted urine volume and urinary albumin level for 24 h were both reduced in the SG-ex-supplemented group, suggesting the attenuation of kidney damage that is caused by diabetes. These data indicate that SG-ex supplementation may prevent complications and attenuate pathological conditions for type 2 diabetes, along with its sweet characteristics.
Ethanol-mediated oxidative changes in blood lipids and proteins are reversed by aspirin-like drugs.	Previous work from our laboratory revealed that administration of selected nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)-aspirin, naproxen, nimesulide, and piroxicam-prevented some signs of oxidative stress produced in rat livers acutely intoxicated with ethanol. Our final aim was to pursue these advantageous effects of NSAIDs in humans in relation to opposing the oxidative action of ethanol. In preparation for these studies, we conducted a search for tissues that were more accessible than liver, such as plasma and blood cells.
Influence of glucose in the dialysate on the activity of erythrocyte-glutathione-peroxidase and blood selenium concentration in hemodialyzed patients.	The aim of the study was to show the influence of glucose in the dialysate on the intensity of oxidative stress, activity of glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) and concentration of selenium in patients undergoing regular hemodialysis.
Lipoprotein lipase activator ameliorates the severity of dietary steatohepatitis.	Dietary model of steatohepatitis was established by feeding mice a methionine choline deficient (MCD) diet. Mice on MCD or control diet for 3 weeks were treated with or without NO-1886, a newly synthetic lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activator. In a separate experiment, NO-1886 was given after pre-treatment with 3 weeks of MCD diet. NO-1886 significantly reduced MCD-induced inflammation by repressing levels of hepatic lipid peroxides and pro-inflammatory tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). In addition, NO-1886 dampened hepatic steatosis via accelerating fatty acid oxidation caused by enhanced expression of PPARalpha, cytochrome P450-10 (Cyp4a10), and Acyl-CoA oxidase (ACO). It failed to regulate genes of fatty acid uptake and synthesis pathways. In conclusion, NO-1886 ameliorated and induced regression of experimental steatohepatitis via increasing endogenous LPL activation resulting in suppression on pro-inflammatory factors and reduction of hepatic fatty acids. These findings indicate that NO-1886 is a potential therapeutic agent for steatohepatitis.
The effects of 1-year treatment with a herbst mandibular advancement splint on obstructive sleep apnea, oxidative stress, and endothelial function.	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with endothelial dysfunction. In the current study, we assessed the effect of long-term modified Herbst mandibular advancement splint (MAS) treatment on OSA, oxidative stress markers, and on endothelial function (EF).
Genetic deletion of p66(Shc) adaptor protein prevents hyperglycemia-induced endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress.	Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and loss of endothelial NO bioavailability are key features of vascular disease in diabetes mellitus. The p66(Shc) adaptor protein controls cellular responses to oxidative stress. Mice lacking p66(Shc) (p66(Shc-/-)) have increased resistance to ROS and prolonged life span. The present work was designed to investigate hyperglycemia-associated changes in endothelial function in a model of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus p66(Shc-/-) mouse. p66(Shc-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice were injected with citrate buffer (control) or made diabetic by an i.p. injection of 200 mg of streptozotocin per kg of body weight. Streptozotocin-treated p66(Shc-/-) and WT mice showed a similar increase in blood glucose. However, significant differences arose with respect to endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress. WT diabetic mice displayed marked impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxations, increased peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) generation, nitrotyrosine expression, and lipid peroxidation as measured in the aortic tissue. In contrast, p66(Shc-/-) diabetic mice did not develop these high-glucose-mediated abnormalities. Furthermore, protein expression of the antioxidant enzyme heme oxygenase 1 and endothelial NO synthase were up-regulated in p66(Shc-/-) but not in WT mice. We report that p66(Shc-/-) mice are resistant to hyperglycemia-induced, ROS-dependent endothelial dysfunction. These data suggest that p66(Shc) adaptor protein is part of a signal transduction pathway relevant to hyperglycemia vascular damage and, hence, may represent a novel therapeutic target against diabetic vascular complications.
Effects of haloperidol and its pyridinium metabolite on plasma membrane permeability and fluidity in the rat brain.	The use of antipsychotic drugs is limited by their tendency to produce extrapyramidal movement disorders such as tardive dyskinesia and parkinsonism. In previous reports it was speculated that extrapyramidal side effects associated with the butyrophenone neuroleptic agent haloperidol (HP) could be caused in part by the neurotoxic effect of its pyridinium metabolite (HPP(+)). Although both HPP(+) and HP have been shown to induce neurotoxic effects such as loss of cell membrane integrity, no information exists about the difference in the neurotoxic potency, especially in the potency to induce plasma membrane damage, between these two agents. In the present study, we compared the potency of the interaction of HPP(+) and HP with the plasma membrane integrity in the rat brain. Membrane permeabilization (assessed as [(18)F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate release from brain slices) and fluidization (assessed as the reduction in the plasma membrane anisotropy of 1,6-diphenyl 1,3,5-hexatriene) were induced by HPP(+) loading (at >or=100 microM and >or=10 microM, respectively), while comparable changes were induced only at a higher concentration of HP (=1 mM). These results suggest that HPP(+) has a higher potency to induce plasma membrane damage than HP, and these actions of HPP(+) may partly underlie the pathogenesis of HP-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
Effect of dietary supplementation of astaxanthin by Phaffia rhodozyma on lipid peroxidation, drug metabolism and some immunological variables in male broiler chicks fed on diets with or without oxidised fat.	1. Effects of dietary supplementation of astaxanthin (Ax) provided from Phaffia rhodozyma on lipid peroxidation, hepatic drug metabolism, antibody titres to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) and splenocyte proliferation to mitogens were determined in male broiler chicks. 2. Chicks, one week old, were given diets with or without oxidised fat (0 or 3.7 meq of peroxide value (POV)/kg diet) and/or Ax (0 or 100 mg/kg diet) for 14 d, ad libitum. 3. Lipid peroxidation, estimated by 2-thiobarbituric acid reactants values in liver, spleen, heart, plasma and hepatic microsomes, were increased by feeding a diet containing oxidised fat (P<0.05) but were not affected by Ax feeding. 4. Cytochrome P-450 contents in hepatic microsome tended to be increased by feeding Ax. 5. Anti-SRBC titre was not affected by oxidised fat or Ax feeding, while plasma immunogloblin (Ig) G concentration was increased by Ax feeding but was not affected by oxidised fat feeding. 6. When chicks were fed on the diet without oxidised fat, Ax enhanced splenocyte proliferation stimulated by both concanavalin A and pokeweed mitogen, while in chicks fed on a diet containing oxidised fat, Ax reduced the proliferation (P<0.01 for Ax and oxidised fat interaction). 7. The results indicated that dietary supplementation of Ax from Phaffia rhodozyma had an impact on T cell proliferation and Ig G production as a part of acquired immunity, but was not effective in preventing lipid peroxidation in male broiler chicks.
Effects of mobile phones on oxidant/antioxidant balance in cornea and lens of rats.	To investigate the effects of mobile-phone-emitted radiation on the oxidant/antioxidant balance in corneal and lens tissues and to observe any protective effects of vitamin C in this setting.
Lung permeability, antioxidant status, and NO2 inhalation: a selenium supplementation study in rats.	Little is known about antioxidant status, selenium status in particular, and lung response to NO2, which acts as a proinflammatory air pollutant. The effects of a low selenium diet (1.3 microg Se/d) with or without selenium supplementation were therefore studied in 128 Wistar rats, 2 mo old, male exposed to either acute (50 ppm, 30 min), intermittent subacute (5 ppm, 6 h/d, 5 d), intermittent long-term NO2 (1 ppm, 10 ppm, 6 h/d, 5 d/wk, 28 d), or normal atmospheric air (controls). Following sacrifice, measurements of lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, chemiluminescence), antioxidative protective enzymes (glutathione peroxidase [GPx], superoxide dismutase [SOD], glutathione S-transferase [GST], ceruloplasmin), lung damage (lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline and acid phosphatases), lung permeability (total protein, albumin), and inflammation (cell populations), along with the determination of new biomarkers such as CC16 (Clara-cell protein), were performed in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). While selenium-supplemented animals had increased GPx activity in serum prior to inhalation experiments, they also had decreased BALF CC16, blood SOD, and GST levels. Nevertheless, the protective role of normal selenium status with respect to NO2 lung toxicity was evident both for long-term and acute exposures, as the increase in BALF total proteins and corresponding decrease in serum (indicating increased lung permeability) was significantly more pronounced in selenium-deficient animals. During the various inhalation experiments, serum CC16 demonstrated its key role as an early marker of increased lung permeability. These findings corroborate the important role of selenium status in NO2 oxidative damage modulation, but also indicate, in view of its negative impact on CC16, a natural anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressor, that caution should be used prior to advocating selenium supplementation.
Oxidative stress induced in PCB 126-exposed northern leopard frogs, Rana pipiens.	Northern leopard frogs Rana pipiens exposed to PCB 126 (3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl) were examined for hepatic oxidative stress. In a dose-response study, northern leopard frogs were injected intraperitoneally with either PCB 126 in corn oil (0.2, 0.7, 2.3, or 7.8 mg/kg body weight) or corn oil alone. In a time-course study, frogs received 7.8 mg/kg or corn oil alone, and were examined at 1, 2, 3, and 4 wk after dosing. Hepatic concentrations of reduced glutathione (GSH), thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), and total sulfhydryls (total SH), as well as activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-P), GSSG reductase (GSSG-R), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH), and glutathione S-transferase (GSH-S-T) were measured. In the dose-response experiment, few effects were apparent 1 wk after dosing. In the time-course experiment, significant changes were observed in the 7.8-mg/kg group at 2 wk or more posttreatment. Hepatic concentrations of GSH and TBARS were higher than in corresponding controls at wk 3 and 4; the activities of GSSG-R and GSH-S-T were higher than in controls at wk 2 and 4; and the activity of G-6-PDH was increased at wk 2 and 4. These data collectively indicate that altered glutathione metabolism and oxidative stress occurred and were indicative of both toxicity and induction of protective mechanisms in frogs exposed to PCB. A similar delay in response was reported in fish and may relate to lower metabolic rate and physiological reactions in ectothermic vertebrates.
Galactosamine-induced hepatotoxic effect and hepatoprotective role of a protein isolated from the herb Cajanus indicus L in vivo.	dd(+)-Galactosamine is a well-known experimental hepatotoxin. The present study was conducted to determine the protective role of a 43-kD protein isolated from the leaves of the herb Cajanus indicus L against D(+)-galactosamine (GalN) induced liver damage in mice. Both preventive and curative effects of the protein have been investigated in the study. The protein was administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 2 mg/kg body weight for 4 days before and after GalN intoxication at a dose of 800 mg/kg body weight for 3 days. The increased activities of serum marker enzymes, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase because of GalN administration, were significantly reduced by the protein treatment. The protein also normalized the altered activities of antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione-S-transferase as well as the levels of cellular metabolites, reduced glutathione, glutathione disulfide, and total thiols. In addition, the enhanced hepatic lipid peroxidation because of GalN intoxication was also effectively inhibited by the protein treatment. Results suggest that GalN caused hepatic damages via oxidative insult and that the protein provided protection through its antioxidant mechanism.
Swimming reduces the severity of atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E deficient mice by antioxidant effects.	It was shown that aerobic exercise training may protect against the development of atherosclerosis. However, the precise mechanisms are still unknown. We assessed the hypothesis that exercise training reduced the severity of experimental atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein (apo) E-deficient mice by antioxidant effects.
Oxidative stress in prefrontal cortex of rat exposed to MK-801 and protective effects of CAPE.	MK-801 was shown to be one of the most neurotoxic non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists. It is known that repeated injection of MK-801 was proposed in an animal model in psychosis. The aims of this study are to investigate the contributing effect of oxidative stress in MK-801-induced experimental psychosis model, and to show that prevention of oxidative stress may improve prognosis. Furthermore, there is evidence that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In this study, Wistar Albino rats were divided into three groups: 1st group: Control, 2nd group: MK-801, 3rd group: MK-801+CAPE (Caffeic acid phenethyl ester) group. MK-801 was given intraperitoneally at the dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day for 5 days. CAPE was given to the treatment group while exposed to MK-801. In control group, saline was given intraperitoneally at the same time. After 7 days, rats were killed by decapitation. Prefrontal cortex (PFC) of rats was removed for biochemical and histological analyses. As a result, malondialdehyde (MDA), protein carbonyl (PC), nitric oxide (NO) levels and superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and xanthine oxidase (XO) and adenosine deaminase (AD) enzyme activities were found to be increased significantly in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of MK-801 group (p<0.0001) compared to control group. In CAPE treated rats, prefrontal tissue MDA, PC, NO levels and, GSH-Px, XO, AD enzyme activities were significantly decreased when compared to MK-801 groups (p<0.0001) whereas catalase (CAT) enzyme activity was not changed. Moreover, in the light of microscopic examination of MK-801 groups, a great number of apoptotic cells were observed. CAPE treatment decreased the apoptotic cell count in PFC. The results of this study showed that MK-801-induced neurotoxicity caused oxidative stress in PFC of rats. This experimental study may also provide some evidences for the new treatment strategies with antioxidants in schizophrenia.
Antioxidant responses and lipid peroxidation following intranasal 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration in rats: increased susceptibility of olfactory bulb.	We evaluated an alternative method to investigate a possible involvement of environmental toxins in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD). There is considerable evidence supporting the role of oxidative stress in the toxicity of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a neurotoxin largely used to modeling PD in primates and rodents. We have recently demonstrated that rats treated with intranasal (i.n.) infusion of MPTP suffer from progressive signs of PD that are correlated with time-dependent degeneration in dopaminergic neurons. In the present study, we investigated the time-dependent (2 h to 7 days) effect of a single i.n. administration of MPTP (0.1 mg/nostril) on the glutathione-related antioxidant status and lipid peroxidation (TBARS) in the adult Wistar rat brain. The effects were more pronounced in the olfactory bulb at 6 h after i.n. MPTP administration, as indicated by an increase in TBARS and total glutathione (GSH-t) levels, and also in the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) activity. Increased levels of TBARS, GSH-t and GGT activity were also observed at 6 h post-MPTP infusion in some structures (e.g. striatum, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex). No difference regarding glutathione reductase activity was observed in any of the brain structures analyzed, while a marked decrease in glutathione peroxidase activity was specifically observed in the substantia nigra 7 days after MPTP treatment. These results demonstrate that a single i.n. infusion of MPTP in rats induces significant alterations in the brain antioxidant status and lipid peroxidation, reinforcing the notion that the olfactory system represents a particularly sensitive route for the transport of neurotoxins into the central nervous system that may be related to the etiology of PD.
A biochemical and toxicological study with diethyl 2-phenyl-2-tellurophenyl vinylphosphonate in a sub-chronic intraperitoneal treatment in mice.	Diethyl-2-phenyl-2-tellurophenyl vinylphosphonate (DPTVP) is an organotellurium compound with low toxicity after subcutaneous administration in mice. This study evaluated possible in vivo and ex vivo toxicological effects of daily injections of DPTVP for 12 days in mice, using the intraperitoneal administration. This route potentially increases the pharmacokinetics of absorption, distribution, metabolism and toxicity of DPTVP. Treatment with DPTVP (0, 30, 50, 75, 100, 250, 350 or 500 micromol/kg) were not associated with mortality or body weight loss. Nevertheless, the liver and liver-to-body weight ratio increased in groups treated with 350 and 500 micromol/kg of DPTVP. However, plasmatic aspartate and alanine aminotransferase activities (classical markers of hepatotoxicity) were not increased after diethyl-2-phenyl-2-tellurophenyl vinylphosphonate administration. Hepatic, renal and cerebral thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), delta-ALA-D activity and Vitamin C levels were not modified after DPTVP treatment. Renal and hepatic superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) were unchanged after DPTVP treatment. Conversely, SOD activity significantly increased in brain in groups treated with 50, 75, 100 and 500 micromol/kg of DPTVP treated groups. Our findings corroborates that brain is a potential target for organochalcogen action. The absence of severe overt signs of toxicity after sub-chronic exposure to DPTVP reinforces the necessity for more detailed pharmacological studies concerning this new organotellurium compound.
The activity of aldose reductase is elevated in diabetic mouse heart.	The importance of aldose reductase (AR) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications, although the alterations in the expression and activity of AR during hyperglycemia in the heart have not been well characterized. We investigated the expression and enzyme activity of AR in a murine diabetic model. Three weeks after the induction of hyperglycemia with streptozotocin, the level of AR mRNA was significantly reduced in the cardiac ventricles of BDF-1 mice. In contrast, the activity of AR was significantly elevated in the heart without any significant change in the protein level. In these mice, the level of cardiac thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances was unaltered, whereas the level of reduced glutathione (GSH) was significantly increased. Daily administration of insulin for 3 weeks completely normalized the level of AR mRNA and the enzyme activity. On the other hand, daily administration of an antioxidant, N-acetylcysteine significantly reduced the level of AR mRNA in the heart with a concomitant elevation in the enzyme activity. These results suggest that the activity of AR in the heart is affected by GSH dynamics. Augmented AR activity at the early stage of hyperglycemia may perturb glycolysis and affect cardiac performance.
Iron and exercise induced alterations in antioxidant status. Protection by dietary milk proteins.	Lipid peroxidation stress induced by iron supplementation can contribute to the induction of gut lesions. Intensive sports lead to ischemia reperfusion, which increases free radical production. Athletes frequently use heavy iron supplementation, whose effects are unknown. On the other hand, milk proteins have in vitro antioxidant properties, which could counteract these potential side effects. The main aims of the study were: (1) to demonstrate the effects of combined exercise training (ET) and iron overload on antioxidant status; (2) to assess the protective properties of casein in vivo; (3) to study the mechanisms involved in an in vitro model. Antioxidant status was assessed by measuring the activity of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD); glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px)), and on the onset of aberrant crypts (AC) in colon, which can be induced by lipid peroxidation. At day 30, all ET animals showed an increase in the activity of antioxidant enzymes, in iron concentration in colon mucosa and liver and in the number of AC compared to untrained rats. It was found that Casein's milk protein supplementation significantly reduced these parameters. Additional information on protective effect of casein was provided by measuring the extent of TBARS formation during iron/ascorbate-induced oxidation of liposomes. Free casein and casein bound to iron were found to significantly reduce iron-induced lipid peroxidation. The results of the overall study suggest that Iron supplementation during intensive sport training would decrease anti-oxidant status. Dietary milk protein supplementation could at least partly prevent occurrence of deleterious effects to tissue induced by iron overload.
Antioxidant xanthones from Cratoxylum cochinchinense.	A new xanthone named cratoxylumxanthone A (1), together with five known compounds: dulcisxanthone B (2), alpha-mangostin (3), beta-mangostin (4), 2-geranyl-1,3,7-trihydroxy-4-(3-methylbut-2-enyl)xanthone (5) and tectochrystin (6), was isolated from Cratoxylum cochinchinense stems. The structure of new compound was characterized by 1D and 2D NMR techniques. The isolated compounds showed free radical scavenging against DPPH and lipid peroxidation inhibition.
Antioxidant effects of selegiline in oxidative stress induced by iron neonatal treatment in rats.	Increased levels of iron in specific brain regions have been reported in neurodegenerative disorders. It has been postulated that iron exerts its deleterious effects on the nervous system by inducing oxidative damage. In a previous study, we have shown that iron administered during a particular period of the neonatal life induces oxidative damage in brain regions in adult rats. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the possible protective effect of selegiline, a monoamino-oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor used in pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease, against iron-induced oxidative stress in the brain. Results have shown that selegiline (1.0 and 10.0 mg/kg), when administered early in life was able to protect the substantia nigra as well as the hippocampus against iron-induced oxidative stress, without affecting striatum. When selegiline (10.0 mg/kg) was administered in the adult life to iron-treated rats, oxidative stress was reduced only in the substantia nigra.
Lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in patients with carcinoma of prostate.	Prostate cancer is the most prevalent cancer found in men above the age of fifty years and is frequently diagnosed in men between 45 and 89 years of age with a median age of 72 years. This work was undertaken to assess oxidative stress and anti oxidant status in patients with carcinoma of prostate. Glutathione (GSH), Malondialdehyde (MDA), Super Oxide Dismutase (SOD) levels in Erythrocytes and plasma Glutathione-S-Transferase (GST) levels were estimated in patients with carcinoma of prostate and compared to controls. It was observed that Erythrocyte GSH levels were significantly lower and Erythrocyte MDA & SOD levels were significantly higher in patients with carcinoma of prostate compared to controls. No significant change was observed in case of GST compared to controls. Oxidative stress may be involved in prostate cancer as evidenced by the higher MDA levels and lower GSH levels. The increased activity of antioxidant enzyme may be a compensatory regulation in response to oxidative stress.
Antioxidant activity of hydroalcoholic leaf extract of ocimum sanctum in animal models of peptic ulcer.	In the present study, a hydroalcoholic extract of ocimum sanctum leaves has been investigated for its antioxidant activity in animal models of peptic ulcer with the aim of exploring a possible correlation between its antioxidant and antiulcer activities. Gastric ulcers were produced in rats by ethanol treatment and pyloric ligation whereas duodenal ulcers were produced in guinea pigs by histamine treatment. The animals were divided into six groups of six animals each in all these three models of peptic ulcer. Group I served as diseased control in which distilled water (10 ml/kg) orally was administered as placebo. Group II, III and IV received the test drug (ocimum sanctum leaf extract) in doses of 50 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg and 200 mg/ kg respectively orally once daily for 7 days. Group V was administered ranitidine (10 mg/kg orally) once daily for 7 days and served as standard for comparison. Group VI consisted of healthy control for baseline malondialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels. The antioxidant activity was by evaluated estimating plasma MDA in ethanol treated rats and histamine treated guinea pigs and estimating SOD in pyloric ligated rats and histamine treated guinea pigs. In ethanol treated rats, ocimum sanctum leaf extract (100 mg/kg & 200 mg/kg) significantly decreased the levels of MDA to 2.45 +/- 0.29 nmole/ml and 2.40 +/- 0.14 nmole/ml respectively in comparison to 4.87 +/- 0.06 in the diseased control. Similarly, in the histamine treated guinea pig group, the same doses of the extract significantly lowered the levels of MDA to 2.45 +/- 0.12 nmole/ml and 2.37 +/- 0.16 nmole/ml respectively when compared to 4.66 +/- 0.11 in the diseased control. The extract (100 mg/kg & 200 mg/ kg) also increased the levels of SOD in pyloric ligated rats to 1.78 +/- 0.12 U/ml and 1.89 +/- 0.08 U/ml respectively when compared to 1.29 +/- 0.06 U/ml in the diseased control. In the histamine treated guinea pig group also, the same doses of the extract produced a rise in the SOD levels to 2.10 +/- 0.11 U/ml and 2.20 +/- 0.14 U/ml respectively when compared to 1.32 +/- 0.07 in the diseased control. Since lowered levels of MDA and increased levels of SOD signify antioxidant activity, the antiulcer activity of ocimum sanctum might be due to this mechanism.
Heavy metals modulate glutamatergic system in human platelets.	Research strategies have been developed to characterize parameters in peripheral tissues that might easily be measured in humans as surrogate markers of damage, dysfunction or interactions involving neural targets of toxicants. The similarities between platelet and neuron may even be clinically important, as a number of biochemical markers show parallel changes in the central nervous system (CNS) and platelets. The purpose of our research was to investigate the effect of Hg(2+), Pb(2+) and Cd(2+) on the [(3)H]-glutamate binding and [(3)H]-glutamate uptake in human platelets. The involvement of oxidative stress in the modulation of glutamatergic system induced by heavy metals was also investigated. The present study clearly demonstrates that Hg(2+), Cd(2+), and Pb(2+) inhibited [(3)H]-glutamate uptake in human platelets. Hg(2+) inhibited [(3)H]-glutamate binding, while Cd(2+) and Pb(2+) stimulated [(3)H]-glutamate binding in human platelets. Hg(2+), Cd(2+) and Pb(2+) increased lipid peroxidation levels and reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement in platelets. The present limited results could suggest that glutamatergic system may be used as a potential biomarker for neurotoxic action of heavy metals in humans.
The oxidative damage of butenolide to isolated erythrocyte membranes.	Butenolide (CAS No. 16275-44-8), a mycotoxin produced by several Fusarium species, has been shown to be a potential risk factor for animal and human health. This study was undertaken to investigate the potential oxidative damage of butenolide to biomembranes in vitro using the erythrocyte membrane model. Following exposure of isolated rat erythrocyte membranes to butenolide, the extent of oxidative damage was assessed by measuring lipid peroxidation, -SH groups content, Ca2+/Mg2+-ATPase and Na+/K+-ATPase activities, and conformational changes in membrane proteins. It was observed that butenolide resulted in a significant lipid peroxidation, revealed by a concentration-dependent increase in the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Similarly, this toxin induced a concentration-dependent decrease in the content of membrane total -SH groups, as well as free -SH groups. Membrane-bound enzymes were also impaired by the toxin, demonstrated by the marked inhibition of the activities of Na+/K+-ATPase and Ca2+/Mg2+-ATPase. Conformational changes in membrane proteins were determined using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin labeling. Butenolide caused an increase in the ratio of weakly to strongly immobilized components (W/S ratio) in a manner of concentration-dependent, indicating conformational changes in membrane proteins occurred. In conclusion, these findings indicate that butenolide is capable of inducing significant oxidative damage to membrane lipids and proteins.
Combined effects of high-fat diet and ethanol induce oxidative stress in rat liver.	Individuals affected by liver steatosis seldom have symptoms of liver injury, but may be particularly vulnerable to oxidative insults. In this study, we evaluated liver redox alterations produced by acute ethanol administration to rats that were fed a high-fat diet (HFD). Adult male Wistar rats were fed HFD or standard diet (controls) for 1 month; a group of animals from each condition were gavaged with 35% (vol/vol) ethanol every 12h for the last 3 days of the experiment. Total lipid content determined in liver showed lipid accumulation after HFD or HFD combined with ethanol. HFD alone induced a significant rise of seric alanine aminotransferase levels and a marked reduction of antioxidant enzyme activities (catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione transferase). Ethanol alone caused a significant rise of seric cholesterol levels and enhanced mitochondrial H2O2 production, but without apparent oxidative stress as evaluated by thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) assay. The combination of HFD and acute ethanol caused an increase of TBARS, indicating lipid peroxidation, most likely as a consequence of a decrease in antioxidant defenses induced by HFD and of an increase in reactive oxygen species production induced by ethanol. Principal component analysis, based on all the measured parameters, that is, serum liver function tests, antioxidant enzyme activities, mitochondrial H2O2 release, and TBARS, indicated that HFD and ethanol act as two independent factors. In conclusion, our results show that HFD or acute ethanol alone produce, at the most, mild liver injury, whereas their combination triggers oxidative stress, possibly inducing a progression toward liver disease. Hence, our data indicate that a diet too rich in fat is a serious risk factor for the occurrence of liver injury deriving from acute ethanol consumption.
Protective action of 9-hydroxypinoresinol against oxidative damage in brain of mice challenged with kainic acid.	The neuroprotective effect of 9-hydroxypinoresinol was examined in mice challenged with kainic acid (KA), a potent central nervous system excitotoxin. For this purpose, mice were administered intraperitoneally with 9-hydroxypinoresinol before KA injection. A remarkable neuroprotective effect was observed with a single dose of 9-hydroxypinoresinol (30 mg kg(-1)) 24 h before KA challenge. Furthermore, 9-hydroxypinoresinol (20 mg kg(-1)) administered for 3 days before KA challenge reduced the mortality (60%) induced by KA to zero, and alleviated behavioural signs of KA neurotoxicity. Additionally, pretreatment with 9-hydroxypinoresinol (20 mg kg(-1)) prevented the decrease in the levels of total glutathione (GSH) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (P < 0.05). GSH peroxidase activity in brain tissue was restored to control levels, although GSH reductase activity and GSH S-transferase activity were not affected. Such a protective action was also observed even with a lower dose (10 mg kg(-1)) of 9-hydroxypinoresinol administered for 3 days, albeit to a lesser extent. From the results, it is proposed that 9-hydroxypinoresinol exerts a potent neuroprotective effect mainly by preventing oxidative stress in brain tissue of mice challenged with KA.
Combined cupric- and cuprous-binding peptides are effective in preventing IL-8 release from endothelial cells and redox reactions.	Copper mobilization and subsequent redox reactions have been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous inflammation-based diseases. Reduction of the cupric ion (Cu(2+)) to the cuprous ion (Cu(+)) is necessary for the production of copper-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS). Peptides, designed to bind both Cu(2+) and Cu(+) and have the ability to prevent copper redox reactions, were studied. The peptides DAHGMTCANC and DAHKGMTCANC were effective at preventing the formation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) in a copper/ascorbate solution at a 1:1 peptide/Cu ratio. This was observed in the reducing potential of the copper/ascorbate solutions containing these peptides at a 1:1 ratio based on oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) measurements. The peptide DAHGMTCARC was effective at a 2:1 ratio, but not at a 1:1 ratio in which an increase in the oxidation potential was observed. This suggests that a positively charged amino acid such as arginine (R) in the Cu(+)-binding motif interferes with metal chelation. All peptides tested were effective at preventing IL-8 release from phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)/copper-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). The use of Cu(+)/Cu(2+)-binding peptides might be beneficial in the treatment of ROS-related diseases associated with copper.
Seasonal variations in the biochemical composition and lipoperoxidation of Hyalella curvispina (Crustacea, Amphipoda).	We assessed the effect of seasonal variations on the biochemical composition and lipoperoxidation of an amphipod crustacean, Hyalella curvispina, which inhabits the coastal plain of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, and correlated this with information on the biology of the species. The animals were collected monthly from September 2003 to August 2005, in Gentil Lagoon, Tramanda, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Glycogen levels, total proteins, total lipids, triglycerides, and lipoperoxidation were measured for each sex separately. The results suggest that these animals have seasonal storage and degradation of the energy substrates investigated. During summer, glycogen, total lipids, and triglycerides were stored, and were utilized especially during autumn and winter. Proteins were utilized differently in males and females. Females stored proteins especially in spring and used them in summer; whereas males stored proteins especially in spring and used them in winter. The levels of lipoperoxidation during the year differed between females and males. These variations may be related to biotic factors (e.g., reproduction period and others) and to abiotic factors (e.g., water temperature, salinity and others).
Thymoquinone supplementation prevents the development of gentamicin-induced acute renal toxicity in rats.	1. The present study investigated the possible protective effects of thymoquinone (TQ), a compound derived from Nigella sativa with strong anti-oxidant properties, against gentamicin (GM)-induced nephrotoxicity. 2. A total of 40 adult male Wistar albino rats was divided into four groups. Rats in the first group were injected daily with normal saline (2.5 mL/kg, i.p.) for 8 consecutive days, whereas rats in the second group received TQ (50 mg/L in drinking water) for 8 consecutive days. Animals in the third group were injected daily with GM (80 mg/kg, i.p.) for 8 consecutive days, whereas animals in the fourth group received a combination of GM (80 mg/kg, i.p.) and TQ (50 mg/L in drinking water) for 8 consecutive days. 3. Gentamicin resulted in a significant increase in serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and total nitrate/nitrite (NOx) and a significant decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase (CAT) and ATP levels in kidney tissues. 4. Interestingly, TQ supplementation resulted in a complete reversal of the GM-induced increase in BUN, creatinine, TBARS and NOx and decrease in GSH, GPx, CAT and ATP to control values. Moreover, histopathological examination of kidney tissues confirmed the biochemical data, wherein TQ supplementation prevents GM-induced degenerative changes in kidney tissues. 5. Data from the present study suggest that TQ supplementation prevents the development of GM-induced acute renal failure by a mechanism related, at least in part, to its ability to decrease oxidative stress and to preserve the activity of the anti-oxidant enzymes, as well as it ability to prevent the energy decline in kidney tissues.
Stress-dependent induction of protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and anti-oxidants in peripheral tissues of rats: comparison of three stress models (immobilization, cold and immobilization-cold).	1. It is known that stress causes disruption of homeostasis and an imbalanced anti-oxidant status in several organs. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of three stress models on protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and anti-oxidant enzyme activities in the liver, kidney and heart, and to investigate the relationship between corticosterone and some oxidative stress parameters. In addition, we investigated the most effective stress model for each parameter in each tissue. 2. Thirty-six male Wistar rats (aged 3 months old, weighing 220 +/- 20 g) were divided randomly into four groups of nine rats each: control (C), immobilization stress (IS), cold stress (CS), and immobilization-cold stress (ICS). 3. Results showed that corticosterone levels were increased in all stress groups. Levels of protein carbonyl (PC), conjugated dienes (CD) and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) were increased, whereas reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were decreased in all tissues of all stress groups. Copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) activities were increased in the liver and kidney of all stress groups, but were decreased in heart of the IS and CS groups. Catalase (CAT) activities were increased in liver of the CS group and in kidney and heart of all stress groups, but were decreased in liver of the IS and ICS groups. Selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSH-Px) activities were increased in liver of the CS and ICS groups and in heart of all stress groups, but were decreased in kidney of the IS group. Also, Se-GSH-Px activity levels remained unchanged in liver of the IS group and in kidney of the CS and ICS groups. The increased CAT activity and unchanged Se-GSH-Px activity observed in kidney suggest that H2O2 may be primarily scavenged by CAT. 4. The strong correlations between corticosterone and oxidative damage markers (e.g. protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and GSH levels) suggest a relationship between these parameters. Liver was affected most by the CS model, whereas kidney and heart were affected most by ICS model. Stress-induced changes in the activities of anti-oxidant enzymes and GSH levels were found to be tissue- and enzyme-specific. In conclusion, results of the present study suggest that each stress model affects the different organ tissues in different ways.
NO-donor melatonin derivatives: synthesis and in vitro pharmacological characterization.	Numerous studies document that melatonin possesses a broad-spectrum antioxidant activity. It traps a number of reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as hydroxyl and peroxyl radicals, singlet oxygen and hypochlorous acid. It also inhibits peroxynitrite-induced reactions. It is known that atherosclerosis progression involves ROS-induced oxidation of low-density lipoproteins in sub-endothelial space and the depletion of nitric oxide (NO) in blood vessels, as well as a decreased sensitivity of the vessels to the actions of NO. Considering this, a series of new NO-donor antioxidants were designed and synthesized by joining melatonin with NO-donor nitrooxy and furoxan moieties as polyvalent agents potentially useful for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases involving atherosclerotic vascular changes. The in vitro antioxidant properties of the resulting products were assessed in the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances assay (TBARS), the ABTS(+.) as well as in the alkaline phosphatase (ALP) assay. The antioxidant capacities of NO-donor melatonins to inhibit lipoperoxidation (TBARS-IC(50)) was predominantly dependent on their lipophilicity, and therefore on their partitioning process into membranes. On the other hand, their comparable capacity to inhibit protein oxidation (ALP-IC(50)) was independent of their lipophilicity and was consistent with their similar ability to participate in electron transfer reactions. All the NO-donor melatonins were also evaluated for their ability to relax rat aorta strips precontracted with 1 microM phenylephrine. Finally, binding affinities and intrinsic activity studies, carried out at MT(1) and MT(2) receptor subtypes, showed a rather complex picture in need of further investigation.
Effect of fluoride intoxication on the levels of intestinal antioxidants studied in rats.	High concentration of fluorine is noxious to the health of humans and animals. Analysis of fluoride in water samples meant for human consumption in the Vellore District of Tamil Nadu, India, revealed its presence above the permissible limit (4.56 ppm). The present study was aimed to investigate the toxic effects of oral administration of the water sample that contains the highest fluoride content on the status of pathophysiological parameters and lipid peroxidation in experimental rats. A positive control group orally treated with 4.5 ppm of fluoride was also included in the study. The assay of pathophysiological enzymes and histological observations made on the stomach and intestinal tissue have revealed the toxic effects of fluoride intoxication. The observed increase in the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) both in plasma and in intestinal epithelium, with a concomitant decrease in both enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants in the plasma of experimental rats, revealed that the altered antioxidant status during fluoride intoxication may be due to increased free radical generation.
Novel neuroprotective neurotrophic NAP analogs targeting metal toxicity and oxidative stress: potential candidates for the control of neurodegenerative diseases.	A large body of data indicates that a cascade of events contributes to the neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Metal (Fe, Cu, Zn) dyshomeostasis and oxidative stress are believed to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of these diseases. Accordingly, multifunctional compounds combining metal chelating and antioxidative activity hold a great promise as potential drugs for treating AD and PD. In this study, two novel NAPVSIPQ (NAP) analogs (M98 and M99) with potential antioxidant-metal chelating ability were designed and investigated, aiming to improve the poor metal chelating and antioxidative activity of NAP. Our studies showed that both M98 and M99 formed stable metal (Fe, Cu, Zn) complexes in water and demonstrated good metal (Fe, Cu, Zn) chelating properties as opposed to the poor metal (Fe, Cu, Zn) chelating properties of their parent peptide NAP. M98 and M99 exhibited significant inhibition of iron-induced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenates at concentrations of > or = 30 microM, while NAP failed to show any inhibition even at 100 microM. In human neuroblastoma cell (SH-SY5Y) culture, M98 and M99 at 1 microM completely protected against 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) toxicity with potency similar to NAP and desferal (DFO), a strong iron chelator and a highly potent radical scavenger. In PC12 cell culture, M98 at the range of 0.001-1 microM displayed potent protection against 6-OHDA toxicity, comparable to NAP and DFO. These results suggest that M98 and M99 deserve further investigation as potential drug candidates for neuroprotection.
Vascular risk factors and oxidative stress as independent predictors of asymptomatic atherosclerosis in adult patients with epilepsy.	This study aimed to evaluate the carotid artery intima-media thickness (CA-IMT) in adult patients with epilepsy and its contribution to oxidative stress and vascular risk biomarkers.
Effect of the carotenoid-producing alga, Dunaliella bardawil, on CCl4-induced toxicity in rats.	Dunaliella bardawil is a carotenoid-producing alga that is being considered for use in nutraceuticals. To evaluate potential protective effects of consumption of this alga, rats were treated with two different doses of D. bardawil (2.5 and 5.0 g kg(-1) body weight [bw]) as a biomass suspension daily for 14 days. Animals were tested against Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4; 2 ml kg(-1))-induced liver toxicity as measured by various biochemical marker enzymes in liver and blood. All measurements were taken 6 h following the single dose of CCl4. The results of this study show that there was a slight, but statistically significant mean serum enzyme values, with D. bardawil treatment, compared to higher mean values in animals receiving CCl4 alone. Lipid peroxidation is measured by thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) activity was likewise slightly less elevated with algae treatment. The results also demonstrated protection against DNA strand breaks in hepatocytes, as measured by single cell gel electrophoresis. Liver histopathology was less severe with D. bardawil treatment, supporting the apparent protective action of 14-day treatment on hepatic oxidative injury.
In vitro study of lovastatin interactions with amiodarone and with carbon tetrachloride in isolated rat hepatocytes.	To investigate the interactions at a metabolic level between lovastatin, amiodarone and carbon tetrachloride in isolated rat hepatocytes.
Statins alter oxidant-antioxidant status and lower exercise-induced oxidative stress.	Data on effects of statins on resting oxidant-antioxidant status are contradictory and no study has been published on the effects of statins on exercise-induced oxidative stress. We carried out a 6-month longitudinal study in 10 dyslipidemic patients receiving 10 mg/day atorvastatin and 13 healthy sedentary subjects. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and reduced ascorbic acid (RAA) were measured in plasma at rest and every 5 minutes after submaximal isometric thumb adduction and handgrip sustained until exhaustion. At inclusion, resting TBARS and RAA levels in controls and patients did not differ and exercise increased TBARS and decreased RAA. Atorvastatin reduced resting TBARS and RAA levels in a time-dependent but lipid-independent manner. The main effect was a post-exercise increase in TBARS, without affecting the post-exercise RAA levels. The reduction in oxidative stress occurred earlier in oxidative muscles involved in thumb adduction. In conclusion, atorvastatin lowers resting oxidant-antioxidant activity: exercise-induced oxidative stress occurs mainly in muscles having a high oxidative capacity.
Onion flesh and onion peel enhance antioxidant status in aged rats.	This study was designed to investigate the effects of dietary onion flesh or onion peel on lipid peroxides and DNA damage in aged rats. Sprague Dawley male rats (n=40, 16 mo old) were blocked into five groups and raised for 3 mo with either an onion-free control diet or onion diets (Allium cepa L., intermediate-day variety) containing either 5% (w/w) powdered dried onion flesh, 5% (w/w) powdered dried onion peel or ethanol extracts of the two powdered forms of onion. Total antioxidant status (TAS) and levels of total polyphenols and quercetin were greatest in onion peel ethanol extract, followed by onion peel powder, onion flesh ethanol extract, and onion flesh powder. Plasma quercetin and isorhamnetin levels were markedly increased by onion peel powder and onion peel ethanol extract. Rats fed onion flesh powder or onion peel powder had a higher plasma TAS than rats fed the control diet. Onion peel powder reduced liver thiobarbituric reactive substances relative to those of the control diet in aged rats (p<0.05). Brain 8-isoprostane levels were markedly decreased by all four onion diets and the decrease was significant for the onion flesh powder and onion peel powder diets (p<0.05). There was no significant decrease in cellular DNA damage in the kidney or brain tissue among rats fed the four onion diets. Onion flesh or onion peel enhanced antioxidant status in aged rats and may be beneficial for the elderly as a means of lowering lipid peroxide levels.
Eccentric muscle contractions induce greater oxidative stress than concentric contractions in skeletal muscle.	The purpose of this study was to examine oxidative stress in skeletal muscle after eccentric and concentric muscle contractions. Eight-week-old Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice (n = 90) were divided into 3 groups: eccentric muscle contraction group (ECC, n = 42), concentric muscle contraction group (CON, n = 42), and control group (pre, n = 6). The tibialis anterior muscle was stimulated via the peroneal nerve to contract either eccentrically or concentrically. The tibialis anterior muscle was isolated before and 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, 72, and 168 h after muscle contraction. Immediately after muscle contractions, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in skeletal muscle significantly increased (p < 0.05) in both ECC and CON conditions. However, in the ECC group alone, the TBARS level peaked at 12 and 72 h after the contractions. There was greater migration of mononuclear cells in ECC than in CON muscle. In addition, there was a correlation between TBARS in skeletal muscle and migration of mononuclear cells in ECC muscle (r = 0.773, p < 0.01), but this correlation was not apparent in CON muscle (r = 0.324, p = 0.12). The increased mononuclear cells may reflect inflammatory cells. These data suggest that eccentric muscle contraction induces greater oxidative stress in skeletal muscle, which may in turn be due to enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by migrating inflammatory cells.
Oxidative stress parameters in hemodialysis patients with or without diabetes.	Oxidative stress (imbalance of antioxidant and prooxidants in favour of the later) is considered to be a feature of diabetes and chronic renal failure. Carbonyl stress defined as accumulation of reactive carbonyl compounds due to excess production or disturbed clearance from the body is thought to amplify oxidative stress in these conditions. The accumulation of carbonyl compounds can be also a consequence of oxidative stress. A vicious cycle can thus be formed. We have studied the association between carbonyl stress markers (dicarbonyl compounds, Amadori products) and oxidative stress markers (total plasmatic thiols and malondialdehyde level) in hemodialysed patients with or without diabetes taking into account the levels of possible excess substrates (glucose and triglycerides). We have concluded that hemodialysed diabetes patients are more susceptible to oxidative stress than hemodialysed patients without diabetes.
Effect of curcumin analog on gamma-radiation-induced cellular changes in primary culture of isolated rat hepatocytes in vitro.	The present study was aimed to evaluate the radioprotective effect of curcumin analog, on gamma-radiation-induced toxicity in primary cultures of isolated rat hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were isolated from the liver of rats by collagenase perfusion. The DNA damage was analysed by single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay). An increase in the severity of DNA damage was observed with the increase in gamma-radiation dose at 1-4 Gy in cultured rat hepatocytes. The levels of lipid peroxidative indices like thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARSs) were increased significantly, whereas the levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) and antioxidant enzymes were significantly decreased in gamma-irradiated groups. The maximum damage to hepatocytes was observed at 4Gy gamma-irradiation. Pretreatment with different concentrations of curcumin analog (1.38, 6.91 and 13.82 microM) shows a significant decrease in the levels of TBARS and DNA damage. Pretreatment with curcumin analog prevents the loss of enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants like GSH upon gamma-irradiation. The maximum protection of hepatocytes was observed at 6.91 microM of curcumin analog pretreatment. Thus, our result shows that pretreatment with curcumin analog protects the hepatocytes against gamma-radiation-induced cellular damage.
Oxidative stress and antioxidant status in cardiovascular diseases in population of western Nepal.	To observe if there is any connectivity between oxidative stress and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs).
Mitochondrial respiratory chain and creatine kinase activities in rat brain after sepsis induced by cecal ligation and perforation.	The mechanisms responsible to the development of brain dysfunction during sepsis are not well understood. The objective of this study is to evaluate mitochondrial respiratory chain and creatine kinase activities in the brain after cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) in rats. We performed a prospective, controlled experiment in male Wistar rats. Rats were subjected to CLP (sepsis group) with saline resuscitation (at 50mL/kg immediately and 12h after cecal ligation and perforation) or sham operation (control group). Several times (0, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 96h) after CLP six rats were killed by decapitation, and brain structures (cerebellum, hippocampus, striatum and cortex) were isolated. Mitochondrial respiratory chain and creatine kinase activity were then measured. It was observed that animals submitted to CLP presented decreased mitochondrial respiratory chain activity in complex I, but not in complex II, III and IV, 24, 48 and 96h in all analyzed structures. Activity of succinate dehydrogenase was decreased in 48 and 96h in all analyzed structures. Creatine kinase activity increased after CLP in cerebellum, hippocampus and cortex (after 0h) and striatum (after 6h). Sepsis associated brain injury may include dysfunction in the mitochondrial respiratory chain activity.
Gender related differences in paraoxonase 1 response to high-fat diet-induced oxidative stress.	To evaluate the influence of the pro-oxidant and proinflammatory state related to dietary obesity on serum paraoxonase 1 (PON1) activity in male and female rats.
Pyrazole induced oxidative liver injury independent of CYP2E1/2A5 induction due to Nrf2 deficiency.	Pyrazole can induce CYP2E1 and 2A5, which produce reactive oxygen species (ROS). Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) regulates important antioxidant enzymes to remove ROS. In this study, we applied Nrf2 knockout mice to test the hypothesis that pyrazole will cause hepatotoxicity and elevate oxidative stress to a greater extent in Nrf2 knockout mice compared to wild type mice. Pyrazole induced severe oxidative liver damage in Nrf2 knockout mice but not in wild type mice. Activities and levels of CYP2E1 and 2A5 were elevated by pyrazole in the wild type mice but not in the Nrf2 knockout mice. However, expression or activity of Nrf2-regulated antioxidant enzymes, such as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), were upregulated in the pyrazole-treated wild type mice, but to a lesser extent or not at all in the pyrazole-treated Nrf2 knockout mice. Treatment with antioxidants such as vitamin C or S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) or an inhibitor of iNOS prevented the pyrazole-induced oxidative liver damage, thus validating the role of oxidative/nitrosative stress in the pyrazole induced liver injury to the Nrf2 knockout mice. In summary, even though ROS-producing CYP2E1/2A5 were not elevated by pyrazole, impaired antioxidant capacity resulting from Nrf2 deficiency appear to be sufficient to promote pyrazole-induced oxidative liver injury.
Oxidative stress in mouse plasma and lungs induced by cigarette smoke and lipopolysaccharide.	Short-term exposure to cigarette smoke (CS) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) leads to acute lung inflammation through oxidant-antioxidant imbalance. We studied the response in mice exposed to smoke or LPS during five consecutive days, as measured by superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities, as well as lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), lung homogenates, and plasma. Control mice were exposed to ambient air. Exposure to CS or LPS led to a similar influx of alveolar macrophages and neutrophils into the BALF; however, hydroxyproline levels were increased only in the CS group (p<0.001); SOD activity was increased in the BALF (p<0.001) and lung homogenates (p<0.05) of the CS group but was decreased in the BALF (p<0.05), lung homogenates (p<0.05) and plasma (p<0.01) of the LPS group. CAT activity was increased in the BALF (p<0.01), lung homogenates (p<0.001) and plasma (p<0.05) of the CS group but decreased in the BALF (p<0.001) and plasma (p<0.05) of the LPS group. GPx activity was reduced in the BALF (p<0.01) and plasma (p<0.01) of both the CS and LPS groups. Lipid peroxidation was increased in the BALF (p<0.001) and lung homogenates (p<0.001) of the CS group. Finally, the levels of nitrite were reduced in the CS (p<0.01) and LPS (p<0.001) groups. Our data show that the activity profiles of enzymes contributing to oxidant-antioxidant imbalance in the lungs differ depending on the inflammatory stimulus, and that SOD, CAT and GPx may be useful markers of oxidative stress in acute lung inflammation induced by exposure to CS.
Xanthine oxidase activity in patients with sepsis.	Determine the relation of xanthine oxidase (XO) activity and the outcome of septic patients and its relation to oxidative damage and clinical parameters of sepsis severity.
Oxidative stress disturbs energy metabolism of mitochondria in ethanol-induced gastric mucosa injury.	To study the role of mitochondrial energy disorder in the pathogenesis of ethanol-induced gastric mucosa injury.
Preconditioning with ozone/oxygen mixture induces reversion of some indicators of oxidative stress and prevents organic damage in rats with fecal peritonitis.	Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species are involved in the pathogenesis of sepsis syndrome with peritonitis and the septic shock. The aim of this study was to determine whether ozone oxidative preconditioning (OOP) may exert beneficial effects in the prevention and treatment of sepsis syndrome in rats inoculated by the intraperitoneal route (i.p.) with fecal material and also to determine if antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) may exert protective effects against this systemic inflammatory disorder.
Effects of Pycnogenol and vitamin E on cognitive deficits and oxidative damage induced by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin in rats.	Oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the progression of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Considerable attention has been focused on increasing the internal antioxidant defenses in response to AD. This study was designed to examine and compare the pretreatment effects of Pycnogenol (PYC) and vitamin E (Vit E) on cognitive deficits and oxidative damage in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of intracerebroventricular streptozotocin (ICV-STZ)-infused rats. Rats pretreated with PYC (10mg/kg), Vit E (100mg/kg), and vehicle (intraperitoneal; once daily for 3 weeks) were bilaterally injected with ICV-STZ (3mg/kg), whereas sham rats received the same volume of vehicle. After 2 weeks of ICV-STZ infusion, rats were tested for cognitive performance using passive avoidance and water maze tasks, and then killed for biochemical assays. ICV-STZ induced significant declines in cognitive performance and choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus, which were significantly attenuated with PYC and Vit E. Pretreatment with PYC and Vit E produced a significantly enhanced glutathione level and Na+/K+-ATPase activity and decreased thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and protein carbonyl. These findings suggest that PYC and Vit E may provide a promising approach for the treatment of oxidative stress-related neurodegeneration in conditions such as AD.
Rhodiola rosea ability to enrich cellular antioxidant defences of cultured human keratinocytes.	Keratinocytes are cells strongly exposed to oxidative stress, but normally good equipped for antioxidant responses. However, it has long been suggested that exogenous antioxidants could play a useful role in minimizing the adverse skin responses associated with such oxidant species. In this work it was paid attention to the extract of Rhodiola rosea L. roots by using the phytocomplex as a whole because of the important activity of its composition and mutual distribution of its components. We have measured the protection afforded by the extract to reduced glutathione levels, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances levels in cultured human keratinocytes (NCTC 2544) exposed to different oxidative insults: Fe(II)/ascorbate, Fe(II)/H(2)O(2), and tert-butyl-hydroperoxide. We also have investigated the influence of the R. rosea extract on the production of intracellular reactive oxygen species and on the activity of antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase). Furthermore, we have demonstrated that R. rosea extract was able to increase in a time- and dose-dependent manner the activity of the trans plasma membrane oxido reductase activity as an indirect evaluation of the intracellular redox status and this effect was already evident with small concentration of the extract and in a long time. As a result, NCTC 2544 are able to better counteract to several oxidative insults if incubated with R. rosea extract demonstrating a very good antioxidant activity of this phytocomplex.
Antioxidant activity of Desmodium gangeticum and its phenolics in arthritic rats.	Total alcoholic extract of Desmodium gangeticum, which exhibited significant anti-inflammatory activity, was evaluated for the possible mode of action by studying its antioxidant potential in adjuvant-induced arthritic rats. Activity guided fractionation and isolation were carried out. The phenolics fraction showed maximum potency. Solid phase extraction followed by preparative HPLC of the active phenolic fraction yielded for the first time two potent antioxidant compounds, caffeic acid and chlorogenic acid, from this plant. The biological antioxidant defense system, involving superoxide dismutase, glutathione and catalase, showed a significant increase with their levels close to the normal control with a decrease in the lipid peroxide content upon administration of D. gangeticum extract (100 mg kg(-1)) and its phenolics (50 mg kg(-1)) in arthritic rats, thereby indicating the extracts antioxidant property under arthritic conditions.
Antioxidant enzyme activity and lipid peroxidation in liver and gill tissues of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) following in vivo exposure to domoic acid.	Domoic acid (DA) is a neurotoxicant produced by Pseudo-nitzschia from diatomeae. Although the neurotoxic and genotoxic effects of DA have been well documented, the number of in vivo studies regarding the oxidative stress inducing effects of DA is quite limited. In this study, in vivo toxic effects of DA were investigated on fish Oreochromis niloticus (Fam: Cichlidae), using oxidative stress biomarkers. Fish were exposed to three different concentrations (1, 5 and 10 microg/g body weight) of DA via intraperitoneal injections and the tissues were sampled at 24, 48 and 72 h post-treatment. Changes in the level of lipid peroxidation, and activities of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GRd) were evaluated in liver and gill tissues. Our results revealed dose and time dependent increases in the oxidative stress parameters. It was also observed that the toxic effects were more pronounced in liver than in gill tissue.
Evaluation of chronic omega-3 fatty acids supplementation on behavioral and neurochemical alterations in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesion model of Parkinson's disease.	Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 PUFAs) have been widely associated to beneficial effects over different neuropathologies, but only a few studies associate them to Parkinson's disease (PD). Rats were submitted to chronic supplementation (21-90 days of life) with fish oil, rich in omega-3 PUFAs, and were uni- or bilaterally lesioned with 4microg of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the medial forebrain bundle. Although lipid incorporation was evidenced in neuronal membranes, it was not sufficient to compensate motor deficits induced by 6-OHDA. In contrast, omega-3 PUFAs were capable of reducing rotational behavior induced by apomorphine, suggesting neuroprotection over dyskinesia. The beneficial effects of omega-3 PUFAs were also evident in the maintenance of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances index from animals lesioned with 6-OHDA similar to levels from SHAM and intact animals. Although omega-3 PUFAs did not modify the tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra pars compacta and in the ventral tegmental area, nor the depletion of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites in the striatum, DA turnover was increased after omega-3 PUFAs chronic supplementation. Therefore, it is proposed that omega-3 PUFAs action characterizes the adaptation of remaining neurons activity, altering striatal DA turnover without modifying the estimated neuronal population.
Toxic effects of diazinon and its photodegradation products.	The toxic effects of diazinon and its irradiated solutions were investigated using cultivated human blood cells (lymphocytes and erythrocytes) and skin fibroblasts. Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC)-UV/VIS system was used to monitor the disappearance of starting diazinon during 115-min photodegradation and formation of its by-products (diazoxon and 2-isopropyl-6-methyl-4-pyrimidinol (IMP)) as a function of time. Dose-dependent AChE and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibition by diazinon was obtained for all investigated cells. Calculated IC(50) (72 h) values, in M, were: 7.5x10(-6)/3.4x10(-5), 8.7x10(-5)/6.6x10(-5), and 3.0x10(-5)/4.6x10(-5) for fibroblast, erythrocyte and lymphocyte AChE/Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, respectively. Results obtained for reference commercially purified target enzymes indicate similar sensitivity of AChE towards diazinon (IC(50) (20 min)-7.8x10(-5)M), while diazinon concentrations below 10mM did not noticeably affect Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity. Besides, diazinon and IMP induced increasing incidence of micronuclei (via clastogenic mode of action) in a dose-dependent manner up to 2x10(-6)M and significant inhibition of cell proliferation and increased level of malondialdehyde at all investigated concentrations. Although after 15-min diazinon irradiation formed products do not affect purified commercial enzymes activities, inhibitory effect of irradiated solutions on cell enzymes increased as a function of time exposure to UV light and resulted in significant reduction of AChE (up to 28-45%) and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (up to 35-40%) at the end of irradiation period. Moreover, photodegradation treatment strengthened prooxidative properties of diazinon as well as its potency to induce cytogenetic damage.
Anti-ulcer role of herbomineral Siddha drug - Thamira parpam on experimentally induced gastric mucosal damage in rats.	Anti-ulcerogenic activity of Thamira parpam (TP) was investigated in two ulcer models (aspirin + pylorus ligation and HCl-ethanol). Aspirin-pylorus ligation (Asp 200 mg/kg-7 days + PL-4 hours) and HCl-ethanol (150 mM HCl in 70% ethanol) induction in rat resulted in elevation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and depletion of antioxidants (superoxide dismutase [SOD], glutathione [GSH], glutathione peroxidase [GPx]) with high ulcer scores (p < .01). In Asp + PL model, TP treatment showed mild inhibition on ulcer scores, changes in pH, gastric volume, total and free acidity, and elevation of TBARS and depletion of antioxidants. Compared to the ulcer-untreated rats (HCl-ethanol), the herbomineral drug TP treatment (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg, per oral [p.o.]) attenuated the elevation of TBARS, decrease of antioxidants and nitrite (p < .05). Histopathological examinations were correlated with the antioxidant profile. In conclusion, the prophylactic cytoprotective nature of the herbomineral drug in experimentally induced ulcers could be mediated by its free radical quenching property.
The effect of oral administration of Allium sativum extracts on lead nitrate induced toxicity in male mice.	Lead is a common environmental occupational toxic metal, known to have indirect oxidative effects. Considering the antioxidant properties of garlic, this study was undertaken to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of garlic extracts in terms of normalization of altered hematological, biochemical and immunological parameters, and depletion of inorganic lead burden in blood, kidney and brain tissues. Chronic lead nitrate ingestion showed a significant decline in total erythrocyte count, total leukocyte count, hemoglobin concentration, lymphocyte and monocyte content, while neutrophil content increased in lead nitrate treated group. Pb(NO(3))(2) exposure elicited a significant escalation in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances level and depletion in reduced glutathione content and antioxidant enzymes namely, superoxide dismutase and catalase in kidney and brain. Activities of aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, acid phosphatase and alkaline phosphatase augmented significantly in kidney and brain of lead exposed mice. Lead nitrate treatment decreased protein content while cholesterol and lead burden increased significantly. A decrease in viability of macrophage, phagocytic index, immunoglobulin level and plaque count were the salient features observed in lead exposed animals. However, oral administration of garlic extracts to Pb(NO(3))(2) treated groups attenuated the deranged parameters to some extent. This indicates that garlic can be a protective regimen for lead toxicity.
Effect of dietary melanoidins on lipid peroxidation during simulated gastric digestion: their possible role in the prevention of oxidative damage.	The ability of high molecular weight melanoidins extracted from coffee, barley coffee, and dark beer to inhibit lipid peroxidation during simulated gastric digestion of turkey meat has been investigated. Results showed that melanoidins decrease the synthesis of lipid hydroperoxides and secondary lipoxidation products. Coffee melanoidins at 3 mg/mL reversed the reaction and broke down hydroperoxides to concentrations lower than the initial value. Barley coffee and dark beer melanoidins were less effective, and even at 12 mg/mL did not reverse the reaction. The proposed mechanism of action involved Fe(2+) chelating capacity, heme-binding ability, and radical-scavenging activity. Melanoidins were characterized for their content in total proteins, carbohydrates, and phenolics, and the relationship between the chemical composition and the antioxidant activity of dietary melanoidins was investigated. Coffee melanoidins, which contain more phenolics and proteins with respect to the other melanoidins, showed greater antioxidant activity with respect to the other melanoidins tested.
Oxidative stress, l-arginine-nitric oxide and arginase pathways in platelets from adolescents with anorexia nervosa.	Anorexia nervosa (AN) is associated with high cardiovascular mortality. Nitric oxide (NO) inhibits platelet function and regulates the cardiovascular homeostasis. The aim of this study was to investigate the l-arginine-NO-GMPc and arginase pathways and oxidative stress in platelets from patients with AN. Intraplatelet l-arginine transport, NOS expression and activity, cGMP levels, platelet aggregation, arginase expression and oxidative stress were measured in adolescent patients with AN (n=11) and healthy controls (n=12). Plasma l-arginine levels were significantly reduced in AN. l-arginine transport, NOS activity and cGMP basal levels were reduced in platelets associated with unchanged platelet aggregability. The expression of NOS isoforms was not affected. TBARS production was diminished, while the activity of superoxide dismutase was elevated in AN patients. There was an overexpression of arginase II in AN. Alterations of l-arginine-NO-GMPc and arginase pathways in platelets can be early predictors of the incidence of cardiovascular disease into adult life in AN.
Are cefuroxime and vancomycin really safe on the corneal endothelial cells?	To investigate the biochemical changes of the oxidant/antioxidant balance in corneal tissue, and determine the relative corneal endothelial toxicities of the following intracameral antibiotic agents: cefuroxime and vancomycin.
Vitamin E-supplementation protect chromium (VI)-induced spermatogenic and steroidogenic disorders in testicular tissues of rats.	Excess chromium (Cr) exposure is associated with various pathological conditions including reproductive dysfunction. Generation of oxidative stress is one of the plausible mechanisms behind Cr induced cellular deteriorations. The efficacy of vitamin E to combat Cr induced oxidative damage in adult rat testis has investigated in the current study. Adult male rats exposed to hexavalent Cr (intraperitoneal injection with 0.4 mg K(2)Cr(2)O(7)/ kg bw/day) for 26 days resulted in decreased accessory sex organs weight compared to controls. Development of oxidative stress in testis was evidenced by increased lipid peroxidation along with decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities than control animals. Marked reduction in the activities of testicular steroidogenic enzymes; Delta(5)3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), 17beta-HSD, serum testosterone and Leutinizing Hormone (LH) levels were observed. However significant increase in serum Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) level was observed with Cr treated group. Histological evaluation of testis revealed degeneration of stage VII spermatogenic cycle along with decrease in epithelial cell height in epididymis and seminiferous tubules; number of different germ cells per seminiferous tubule and seminiferous tubular diameter reduced after Cr exposure. Simultaneous oral supplementation of vitamin E (50mg/kg bw/day) in Cr exposed rats showed less oxidative damage and restored the otherwise altered testicular activities. Epididymal sperm number was also restored in vitamin E-supplemented group than Cr induced rats. This study implicates vitamin E as a possible protective agent against Cr induced spermatogenic and steroidogenic alteration.
Fasting status and thermally oxidized sunflower oil ingestion affect the intestinal antioxidant enzyme activity and gene expression of male Wistar rats.	The effect of thermally oxidized sunflower oil ingestion on antioxidant levels, enzyme activities and expressions in the small intestine of fed and fasted rats was studied. For three consecutive days, 12 male Wistar rats received 0.5 g of unused sunflower oil/100 g of body weight (controls, C) while another 12 were given 0.5 g of thermally oxidized sunflower oil/100 g of body weight (test group, T). On the night of day 3, 6 rats from each group were fasted (FC and FT, respectively) while the other 6 animals from each group were given free access to food (NFC and NFT, respectively). On day 4, FC and NFC rats received 1 g of unused oil/100 g of body weight, while FT and NFT rats were given 1 g of altered oil/100 g of body weight. Small intestines were extracted after 4 h exposure to the oils. Fasting and oil alteration significantly interacted modifying total, Se-GPx (both, P < 0.001) and non-Se-GPx (P < 0.05) activity, and GPx and Cu,Zn-SOD expressions (both P < 0.001). FT rats showed a significant increase in TBARS (P < 0.05) and catalase activity (P < 0.001) and a decrease in SOD, Se- and non-Se-dependent GPx activities (at least, P < 0.05) with respect to FC and NFT animals. SOD and GPx expressions decreased (p<0.001) but that of TNFalpha increased significantly (P < 0.001) in FT rats with respect to FC and NFT animals. Lengthy fasting and consumption of food containing oxidized fat should both be avoided to prevent intestinal oxidative stress.
Cardiopulmonary response to inhalation of biogenic secondary organic aerosol.	An irradiation chamber designed for reproducible generation of inhalation test atmospheres of secondary organic aerosol (SOA) was used to evaluate cardiopulmonary responses in rodents exposed to SOA derived from the oxidation of alpha-pinene. SOA atmospheres were produced with 10:1 ratios of alpha-pinene:nitrogen oxides (NO(x)) and 10:1:1 ratios of alpha-pinene:nitrogen oxides:sulfur dioxide (SO(2)). SOA atmospheres were produced to yield 200 microg m(-3) of particulate matter (PM). Exposures were conducted downstream of honeycomb denuders employed to remove the gas-phase precursors and reaction products. Nose-only exposures were conducted with both rats (pulmonary effects) and mice (pulmonary and cardiovascular effects). Composition of the atmospheres was optimized to ensure that the SOA generated resembled SOA observed in previous irradiation studies, and contained specific SOA compounds of interest (e.g., organosulfates) identified in ambient air. Pulmonary and cardiovascular toxicity were measured in two different rodent species. In situ chemiluminescence and thiobarbituric acid- reactive substances (TBARS) were used to evaluate oxidative reactions in the F344 rats. ApoE(-/-) mice were exposed for 7 days and measurements of TBARS and gene expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), endothelin-1 (ET-1), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) were made in aorta. Pulmonary inflammatory responses in both species were measured by bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cell counts. No pulmonary inflammation was observed in either species. A mild response was observed in mouse aorta for the upregulation of HO-1 and MMP-9, but was not seen for ET-1. Overall, alpha-pinene-derived SOA, including SOA that included organosulfate compounds, revealed limited biological response after short-term inhalation exposures.
A comparative study of the effects of erabu sea snake (Laticauda semifasciata) lipids, green tea extract and conjugated linoleic acid on the swimming endurance of mice.	The aim of this study was to assess the interaction between physical and biochemical parameters in mice fed 1 % sea snake lipids (SSL) and compare these with animals fed diets containing 0.2 % green tea extract (GTE) or 0.5 % conjugated linoleic acid (CLA). The swimming times of the SSL group were significantly increased at Weeks 12 and 16 (p<0.001), and those of the GTE group, at Week 12 (p<0.005), but not those of the control or CLA group, compared with those at Week 0. The increase tended to be significant in the SSL group compared with the control group at Week 12 (p=0.09). Both the SSL and GTE groups had significantly longer swimming times than the CLA group at Weeks 12 and 16 (p<0.001). After 5 minutes of swimming exercise, the SSL group exhibited significantly lower levels of plasma and muscle lactates (p<0.01), and plasma non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) (p<0.001) than the control group. There were no significant differences in any of plasma glucose, muscle and liver glycogens, muscle lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT), or monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1) between SSL and control groups. The results suggest that the intake of 1 % SSL improved endurance more than the intake of 0.2 % GTE or 0.5 % CLA in mice. This action may involve the promotion of lactate oxidation for utilization.
Protection of swimming-induced oxidative stress in some vital organs by the treatment of composite extract of Withania somnifera, Ocimum sanctum and Zingiber officinalis in male rat.	Composite methanolic extract of roots of Withania somnifera, leaves of Ocimum sanctum, and rhizomes of Zingiber officinalis was administered by gavage at the dose of 40 mg 100 g(-1) body weight day(-1) to rat orally for 15 days prior to experimentation followed by co-administration of above extract at the same dose for 28 days of swimming to find out the remedial effect of this extract on exhaustive physical exercise-induced oxidative damage. Swimming resulted significant diminution (p<0.05) in the activities of catalase and superoxide dismutase along with elevation (p<0.05) in the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and conjugated dienes in cardiac, skeletal, hepatic tissues, cerebrum and cerebellum in respect to control. The levels of all these parameters were resettled significantly (p<0.05) towards the extract pretreated cum co-treated swimming group. The antioxidative potency of this composite extract was compared with standard non-enzymatic antioxidant (vitamin-E) in forced swimming state. The above extract has no general toxic effect as reflected here from the study of transaminase activities in liver and kidney. Results lead to conclude that the composite extract of above three plant parts has a therapeutic protective effect on forced swimming-induced oxidative stress in vital organs.
Moderately oxidized oils and dietary zinc and -tocopheryl acetate supplementation: effects on the oxidative stability of rabbit plasma, liver, and meat.	The aim of this study was to assess the alterations in plasma, liver, and meat oxidative stability and -tocopherol content when moderately oxidized sunflower oils were added to feeds and when feeds were supplemented with -tocopheryl acetate (100 mg/kg) and Zn (200 mg/kg). The effects of cooking the meat and its subsequent refrigeration were also studied. When the content of primary oxidation compounds of the oil was high, rabbit plasma, liver, and meat -tocopherol content was reduced and meat susceptibility to oxidation increased. The addition of oil with a high content of secondary oxidation compounds (oil heated at 140 C, 31 h) to feed also led to an increase in meat susceptibility to oxidation, although it presented an -tocopherol content similar to that of nonheated oil. Feed supplementation with -tocopheryl acetate increased tissue -tocopherol content and improved the oxidative stability of liver and meat. However, in the latter, it was less effective when oil heated at 55 C was added.
Free radicals and antioxidant status in acute myocardial infarction patients with and without diabetes mellitus.	In this study we investigated the oxidative stress, antioxidants and inflammatory molecules in patients of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with diabetes (n = 50) and non-diabetes (n = 50). Fifty healthy subjects were taken as control. The levels of plasma TBARS and ceruloplasmin levels were significantly high in diabetic and non-diabetic AMI patients as compared with control. On the other hand, the activities of both enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants were significantly decreased in diabetic and non-diabetic AMI patients as compared with control. Inflammatory markers showed significant rise in diabetic patients as compared with controls. Our results show increased inflammation and oxidative stress in patients with AMI, and magnitude of imbalance is greater in diabetic AMI patients, possibly because of greater inflammation in diabetic patients.
Development of nutritional iron deficiency in growing male rats: haematological parameters, iron bioavailability and oxidative defence.	Despite Fe deficiency having been widely studied, the sequence of events in its development still remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the effects of nutritional Fe-deficiency development on haematological parameters, Fe bioavailability and the enzymes involved in oxidative defence in recently weaned male Wistar albino rats. Control (C) and Fe-deficient (ID) groups were fed the AIN-93 G diet with a normal Fe level (45mg/kg diet) or with a low Fe level (5mg/kg diet), respectively, for 20, 30 or 40d. At day 20 serum Fe, serum ferritin and the saturation of transferrin decreased drastically, decreasing further in the course of Fe-deficiency development for the saturation of transferrin. The development of Fe deficiency did not affect plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance production, or catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities in erythrocyte cytosol. Fe deficiency diminished hepatic Fe content and CAT and GPx activities in hepatic cytosol only at day the 20. However, in spite of the minor Fe deposits in the brain of ID rats, the CAT and GPx activities in the brain cytosolic fraction did not differ in any of the studied periods v. control rats. These results show that brain is a tissue that does not seem to depend on Fe levels for the maintenance of antioxidant defence mechanisms in the course of nutritional Fe deficiency.
Assessment of the genotoxic potential of contaminated estuarine sediments in fish peripheral blood: laboratory versus in situ studies.	Juvenile Senegalese soles (Solea senegalensis) were exposed to estuarine sediments through 28-day laboratory and in situ (field) bioassays. The sediments, collected from three distinct sites (a reference plus two contaminated) of the Sado Estuary (W Portugal) were characterized for total organic matter, redox potential, fine fraction and for the levels of metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and organochlorines, namely polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and dichloro diphenyl tricholoethane plus its main metabolites (DDTs). Genotoxicity was determined in whole peripheral blood by the single-cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE or "comet") assay and by scoring erythrocytic nuclear abnormalities (ENA). Analysis was complemented with the determination of lipid peroxidation in blood plasma by the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) protocol and cell type sorting. The results showed that exposure to contaminated sediments induced DNA fragmentation and clastogenesis. Still, laboratory exposure to the most contaminated sediment revealed a possible antagonistic effect between metallic and organic contaminants that might have been enhanced by increased bioavailability. The laboratory assay caused a more pronounced increase in ENA whereas a very significant increase in DNA fragmentation was observed in field-tested fish exposed to the reference sediment, which is likely linked to increased lipid peroxidation that probably occurred due to impaired access to food. Influence of natural pathogens was ruled out by unaltered leukocyte counts. The statistical integration of data correlated lipid peroxidation with biological variables such as fish length and weight, whereas the genotoxicity biomarkers were more correlated to sediment contamination. It was demonstrated that laboratory and field bioassays for the risk assessment of sediment contamination may yield different genotoxicity profiles although both provided results that are in overall accordance with sediment contamination levels. While field assays may provide more ecologically relevant data, the multiple environmental variables may produce sufficient background noise to mask the true effects of contamination.
Protective effect of curcumin and its combination with piperine (bioavailability enhancer) against haloperidol-associated neurotoxicity: cellular and neurochemical evidence.	Long-term treatment with haloperidol is associated with a number of extrapyramidal side effects, particularly the irregular movements of chorionic type. This limitation presents a marked therapeutic challenge. The present study investigates the molecular etiology of haloperidol neurotoxicity and the role of curcumin, a well-known anti-oxidant, in ameliorating these adverse effects. The redox status of haloperidol-treated brains along with NO, TNF-, NF-kappaB p65 subunit, caspase-3, and monoamine neurotransmitters were measured in the striatum of rat brain. Chronic treatment with haloperidol (5mg/kg, i.p., 21days) produced orofacial dyskinetic movements which were coupled with marked increase in oxidative stress parameters, TNF-, caspase-3 activity in cytoplasmic lysate and active p65 sub unit of NF-kappaB in nuclear lysates of the striatum. Neurochemically, chronic administration of haloperidol resulted in a significant decrease in the levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. The prototype atypical anti-psychotic, clozapine (10mg/kg, i.p., 21days) produced mild oxidative stress but did not alter any other parameters. Interestingly, co-administration of curcumin (25 and 50mg/kg, i.p., 21days) dose-dependently prevented all the behavioral, cellular, and neurochemical changes associated with the chronic administration of haloperidol. Curcumin per se (50mg/kg) did not show any side effects. Co-administration of piperine significantly enhanced the effect of curcumin (25mg/kg) but not of curcumin (50mg/kg). Collectively, the data indicated the potential of curcumin as an adjunct to haloperidol treatment and provided initial clues to the underlying molecular mechanisms in haloperidol neurotoxicity. This study also provides a rationale for the combination of piperine and curcumin.
Lack of muscle recovery after immobilization in old rats does not result from a defect in normalization of the ubiquitin-proteasome and the caspase-dependent apoptotic pathways.	Immobilization periods increase with age because of decreased mobility and/or because of increased pathological episodes that require bed-rest. Then, sarcopaenia might be partially explained by an impaired recovery of skeletal muscle mass after a catabolic state due to an imbalance of muscle protein metabolism, apoptosis and cellular regeneration. Mechanisms involved during muscle recovery have been little studied and in elderly they remain almost unknown. We show, in rats, that a short immobilization period during ageing initiated muscle atrophy that was indeed not recovered after 40 days. Immobilization was associated with an activation of both the ubiquitin-proteasome and the mitochondria-associated apoptotic pathways and the inflammatory and redox processes, and a decrease of cellular regeneration. We show that the lack of muscle recovery during ageing is not due to a defect in proteolysis or apoptosis down-regulation. These observations lead us to hypothesize that muscle protein synthesis activation after immobilization was altered during ageing.
Effects of dietary antioxidants on the quality, fatty acid profile, and lipid oxidation of longissimus muscle in Kacang goat with aging time.	Thirty-two male goats were randomly assigned to four dietary treatments namely, basal diet 70% concentrate and 30% oil palm fronds (control, CN), CN + 400 mg/kg vitamin E (VE), 0.5% turmeric (TU) or 0.5% Anderographis paniculata (AP). After 100 days of feeding, the goats were slaughtered and longissimus dorsi (LD) muscle was sampled. The muscle was vacuum-packaged and conditioned for 0, 7 and 14 days in a chiller (4 C). The drip loss of the LD muscle increased (P < 0.05) with aging time. Meat tenderness was improved (p < 0.05) at 14 days aging. All antioxidant supplements improved (P < 0.05) colour of the meat. The TBARS value increased (P < 0.05) at 7 days of aging while the fatty acid composition was not affected by the dietary supplements. It is concluded that TU and AP are potential dietary antioxidant supplements, for the purpose of improving the quality of chevon.
Irradiation induces bone injury by damaging bone marrow microenvironment for stem cells.	Radiation therapy can result in bone injury with the development of fractures and often can lead to delayed and nonunion of bone. There is no prevention or treatment for irradiation-induced bone injury. We irradiated the distal half of the mouse left femur to study the mechanism of irradiation-induced bone injury and found that no mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were detected in irradiated distal femora or nonirradiated proximal femora. The MSCs in the circulation doubled at 1 week and increased fourfold after 4 wk of irradiation. The number of MSCs in the proximal femur quickly recovered, but no recovery was observed in the distal femur. The levels of free radicals were increased threefold at 1 wk and remained at this high level for 4 wk in distal femora, whereas the levels were increased at 1 wk and returned to the basal level at 4 wk in nonirradiated proximal femur. Free radicals diffuse ipsilaterally to the proximal femur through bone medullary canal. The blood vessels in the distal femora were destroyed in angiographic images, but not in the proximal femora. The osteoclasts and osteoblasts were decreased in the distal femora after irradiation, but no changes were observed in the proximal femora. The total bone volumes were not affected in proximal and distal femora. Our data indicate that irradiation produces free radicals that adversely affect the survival of MSCs in both distal and proximal femora. Irradiation injury to the vasculatures and the microenvironment affect the niches for stem cells during the recovery period.
Amelioration of selenite toxicity and cataractogenesis in cultured rat lenses by Vitex negundo.	Recent evidence suggests that oxidative stress plays a significant role in the development of cataract. The present study sought to evaluate the efficacy of flavonoid fraction of Vitex negundo (FVN) in preventing the toxicity induced by sodium selenite in vitro culture condition.
Increased oxidative stress and iron overload in Jordanian -thalassemic children.	-Thalassemia (-thal) is associated with abnormal synthesis of hemoglobin (Hb). Repeated blood transfusions in patients with -thal major (-TM) leads to an enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and subjects patients to peroxidative injury. We studied the antioxidant status and oxidative damage to children with -thal in Jordan. Samples from 40 children with -thal and 40 healthy controls were used. All children were under 13 years of age. Our results showed that plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were elevated in -thalassemic children compared to controls together with compensatory increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and decrease in catalase (CAT) activity. Elevated serum ferritin showed positive correlation with elevated liver enzyme levels except gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), confirming liver involvement due to iron overload. Serum ferritin also showed a positive correlation with elevated TBARS and SOD, suggesting that iron overload is involved in the oxidative stress shown in cells.
Mitochondrial dependent apoptosis: ameliorative effect of flunarizine on ischemia-reperfusion of celiac artery-induced gastric lesions in the rat.	Ischemia-reperfusion is a major event for induction of cellular apoptosis. Apoptosis is due to the activation of death receptor and/or mitochondrial pathways. Mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening is the cause of apoptosis. In our present study, we tried to evaluate the role of flunarizine in ischemia and reperfusion of celiac artery-induced gastric lesion in the rat.
Serum heat shock protein 70 levels, oxidant status, and mortality in sepsis.	Animal studies as well as prospective randomized clinical trials associated sepsis with redox imbalance and oxidative stress, but other studies failed to establish a correlation between antioxidant-based therapies and improvement of sepsis condition. This is also true for studies on the role of the chaperone heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), which is increased in serum during sepsis. Heat shock protein 70 is affected at several levels by oxidative stress, but this relationship has never been studied in sepsis. Here, we evaluated the relationship between serum HSP70 immunocontent and oxidant status in sepsis. Patients with severe sepsis were followed up for 28 days after diagnosis, or until death. Up to a maximum of 12 h after sepsis diagnosis, serum was collected for determination of HSP70 immunocontent by Western blot and evaluation of oxidative parameters (TRAP [total radical-trapping antioxidant parameter], TBARSs [thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances], and carbonyl levels). Serum of sepsis patients presented enhanced HSP70 levels. Analysis of oxidative parameters revealed that septic patients with pronounced oxidative damage in serum had also increased HSP70 serum levels. Sepsis patients in whom serum oxidative stress markers were not different from control presented normal serum HSP70. Analysis of septic patients according to survival outcome also indicated that patients with increased HSP70 serum levels presented increased mortality. We concluded that serum HSP70 levels are modulated according to the patient oxidant status, and increased serum HSP70 is associated to mortality in sepsis.
Lipid peroxidation-induced VEGF expression in the skin of KKAy obese mice.	Obesity is known to be associated with a number of effects on skin physiology. KKA(y) obese mouse is a model of type 2 diabetes characterized by systemic oxidative stress because of severe obesity, hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperglycaemia and hyperinsulinaemia. We investigated lipid peroxidation and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in the skin of KKA(y) obese mice. We also investigated the effect of lipid peroxidation derivatives on VEGF production and proliferation in human epidermal keratinocyte cell line (HaCaT). The lipid peroxidation level in the mouse skin tissue was determined by measuring the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances. The levels of VEGF expression, p44/p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and CD36 expression were analysed by Western blot. Their localization was examined by immunofluorescence. For the in vitro experiments, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was utilized to measure VEGF secretion in the medium. In vitro experiments demonstrated that lipid peroxidation derivatives increased VEGF production in HaCaT cells, which was blocked by a p44/p42 MAPK inhibitor and anti-CD36 antibody. We observed increased levels of lipid peroxidation derivatives, p44/p42 MAPK activation and VEGF expression in the skin of KKA(y) obese mice. Notably, pitavastatin, an inhibitor of competitive 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, suppressed all of these processes. Our results suggest that lipid peroxidation induces VEGF expression via CD36 and p44/p42 MAPK pathway in the skin of obese mice.
Susceptibility of Atlantic salmon lenses to hydrogen peroxide oxidation ex vivo after being fed diets with vegetable oil and methylmercury.	The development of cataract in farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) has been related to changes in feed composition resulting in sub-optimal lens nutrition. The present study was performed to investigate the ability of Atlantic salmon lenses to withstand oxidative stress ex vivo, with focus on the nutritional lipid history and exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) as a relevant dietary contaminant. Since dietary histidine has been shown to have a mitigating effect on the prevalence of cataract in farmed salmon, the antioxidative abilities of histidine and NAH, a major imidazole in the salmon lens, was also investigated ex vivo. Lenses from Atlantic salmon prefed diets based on either fish oil (FO) or vegetable oil (VO) as lipid source, with or without addition of 5 mg MeHgkg(-1) feed, were cultured for 96 h in normal medium (control), medium added 5 mM H(2)O(2) or in histidine enriched medium. Lipid class composition of the lenses was not affected by the dietary lipids; while VO fed fish had a decrease in lens n-3/n-6 fatty acid ratio due to minor but significant increase in the concentration of 18:2 n-6 and 20:4 n-6, and decrease in 20:5 n-3 fatty acids compared to FO fed fish. The lenses accumulated mercury in response to dietary levels, but neither the oxidative status nor any physiological responses were affected. The cultured lenses responded to H(2)O(2) exposure with loss of transparency, accumulation of auto-fluorescent compounds, volume increase and reduced glutathione concentration similarly and irrespective of the dietary history. Lenses extracted histidine from the media, and synthesised NAH during the culture period. The innate antioxidative defence system appeared to be influenced both by the dietary lipid history and histidine enrichment on a transcriptional level. Catalase and SPARC were expressed higher in lenses from FO fed fish, and glutaredoxin showed elevated expression levels in FO lenses cultured in histidine enriched medium, suggesting that histidine is related to the innate antioxidant defence in salmon lenses. Further, the concentration of NAH was significantly reduced in oxidatively stressed lenses. Based on the results from this study it is suggested that NAH has a novel role as antioxidant in the Atlantic salmon lens.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)-induced cytotoxicity accompanied by oxidative stress in rat Sertoli cells: Possible role of mitochondrial fractions of Sertoli cells.	TCDD, as an endocrine disruptor, is known to impair testicular functions and fertility. To elucidate the mechanism(s) underlying the testicular effects of TCDD, the potential toxicity of TCDD on Sertoli cells was investigated. Furthermore, the study aims to delineate whether mitochondrial fractions of Sertoli cells are involved in mediating the testicular effects of TCDD. Adult rat Sertoli cells were incubated with (5, 10 or 15nM) of TCDD for 6, 12 or 24h. Cell viability, lactate and LDH leakage into media along with lipid peroxidation, ROS generation, SOD, CAT, GPx, GR, -GT and -glucuronidase activities, GSH content and (m) were measured. Superoxide anion production, COX and cardiolipin content were measured in mitochondrial fractions. Cell viability was significantly decreased while lactate and LDH leakage into media were increased. ROS generation along with lipid peroxidation was also increased. SOD, CAT, GPx, GR activities and GSH content were significantly decreased. -GT and -glucuronidase activities were also decreased. Superoxide anion production was increased while COX activity and cardiolipin content were decreased in mitochondrial fractions. Moreover, the (m) was significantly decreased as measured in Sertoli cells. In conclusion, TCDD impairs Sertoli cell functions and this effect is, at least in part, attributed to oxidative stress. We have also found that TCDD increases mitochondrial superoxide anion production and decreases (m), COX activity and mitochondrial cardiolipin content. Our findings suggest that mitochondria may play an important role in ROS production, leading to the TCDD-induced oxidative stress response and resulting toxicological consequences in rat Sertoli cells.
Indole-3-carbinol enhances oxidative stress responses resulting in the induction of preneoplastic liver cell lesions in partially hepatectomized rats initiated with diethylnitrosamine.	The liver tumor-promoting effects of indole-3-carbinol (I3C), a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A inducer found in cruciferous vegetables, were investigated using a medium-term hepatocarcinogenesis model in rats. Six-week-old male F344 rats received an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and were fed a diet containing 0 (DEN-alone), 0.25, 0.50 or 1.0% of I3C for 8 weeks from 2 weeks after DEN-initiation. The number and area of liver cell foci positive for glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) significantly increased in the livers of rats given 0.5% I3C or more, compared to those in the DEN-alone group. The number of GST-P positive foci also increased in the 0.25% I3C group. The number of liver cells positive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) significantly increased in all I3C groups compared to that in the DEN-alone group. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that I3C increased transcript levels of not only Cyp1a1 but also aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and/or nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) gene batteries, such as Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1, Ugt1a6, Nrf2, Nqo1, Gsta5, Gstm2, Ggt1and Gpx2. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the microsomal fraction significantly increased in all I3C-treated groups compared to the DEN-alone group, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) content significantly increased in all of the I3C-treated groups and 1.0% I3C group, respectively. These results suggest that I3C is an AhR activator and enhances microsomal ROS production resulting in the upregulation of Nrf2 gene batteries, but the oxidative stress generated overcomes the antioxidant effect of Nrf2-related genes. Such 'a redox imbalance' subsequently induces liver tumor-promoting effects by enhancing cellular proliferation in rats.
Melatonin decreases apoptosis in gastric mucosa during aging.	The aging process of tissues is usually accompanied by an increased rate of apoptosis. Although melatonin has been reported to delay aging by scavenging free radicals, its role in the aging of gastric mucosa is not known. In this study, we examined the effects of exogenous melatonin (MLT) on the caspase-dependent apoptosis of gastric mucosa during aging.
Serum levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances are associated with risk of coronary heart disease.	Evidence of relationships between lipid peroxidation and the incidence of coronary heart disease is limited. We therefore investigated this association in a Japanese general population.
Effect of N-acetyl-cysteine on liposomal and muscle model oxidation induced by reactive oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur.	N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC), a naturally occurring thiol, is found in some fruits and vegetables, sometimes in concentrations higher than glutathione. The objective of this research was to determine the antioxidative effect of NAC in liposomal and muscle models challenged by different oxidizing systems, three that produce reactive oxygen species, two that produce reactive nitrogen species, and two that produce reactive sulfur. The antioxidative effect of cysteine and NAC was compared in the liposomes and NAC and BHT were compared in the muscle homogenates. Lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH), TBARS, and sulfydryls (protein and non-protein) were analyzed. Results indicated that NAC is a more effective inhibitor of lipid oxidation in systems induced by free radicals and reactive nitrogen than those that are induced by peroxides. NAC appears to be at least mildly antioxidative in both liposomal and muscle models, although it did not completely inhibit oxidation in liposomes and generally was not as effective as BHT in the muscle models.
Effects of cigarette smoking on lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in cancer patients from Western Nepal.	There is growing evidence that oxidative stress (OS) has a causal relationship with cancer and a weak antioxidant defense can aggravate it further. We therefore, undertook this study to examine lipid peroxidation (TBARS), total antioxidant activity (TAA), ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and - tocopherol levels in cancer patients, with special attention to the influence of smoking.
Heme oxygenase-1 is associated with wheat salinity acclimation by modulating reactive oxygen species homeostasis.	Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has been recently identified as an endogenous signaling system in animals. In this study, HO-1 upregulation and its role in acquired salt tolerance (salinity acclimation) were investigated in wheat plants. We discovered that pretreatment with a low concentration of NaCl (25 mmol/L) not only led to the induction of HO-1 protein and gene expression, as well as enhanced HO activity, but also to a salinity acclimatory response thereafter. The effect is specific for HO-1, since the potent HO-1 inhibitor zinc protoporphyrin IX blocks the above cytoprotective actions, and the cytotoxic responses conferred by 200 mmol/L NaCl are reversed partially when HO-1 inducer hemin is added. Heme oxygenase catalytic product, carbon monoxide (CO) aqueous solution pretreatment, mimicked the salinity acclimatory responses. Meanwhile, the CO-triggered re-establishment of reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis was mainly guaranteed by the induction of total and isozymatic activities, or corresponding transcripts of superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, and cytosolic peroxidase (POD), as well as the downregulation of NADPH oxidase expression and cell-wall POD activity. A requirement of hydrogen peroxide homeostasis for HO-1-mediated salinity acclimation was also discovered. Taken together, the above results suggest that the upregulation of HO-1 expression was responsible for the observed salinity acclimation through the regulation of ROS homeostasis.
Rapeseed oil fortified with micronutrients reduces atherosclerosis risk factors in rats fed a high-fat diet.	Micronutrients polyphenols, tocopherols and phytosterols in rapeseed exert potential benefit to cardiovascular system, but most of these micronutrients are removed by the refining process. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of rapeseed oil fortified with these micronutrients on the atherosclerosis risk factors in rats fed a high-fat diet.
Consumption of different sources of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids by growing female rats affects long bone mass and microarchitecture.	Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (-3 PUFAs) consumption has been reported to improve bone health. However, sources of -3 PUFAs differ in the type of fatty acids and structural form. The study objective was to determine the effect of various -3 PUFAs sources on bone during growth. Young (age 28d) female Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned (n=10/group) to a high fat 12% (wt) diet consisting of either corn oil (CO) or -3 PUFA rich, flaxseed (FO), krill (KO), menhaden (MO), salmon (SO) or tuna (TO) for 8 weeks. Bone mass was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and bone microarchitecture by micro-computed tomography (CT). Bone turnover markers were measured by enzyme immunoassay. Lipid peroxidation was measured by calorimetric assays. Results showed that rats fed TO, rich in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6-3) had higher (P<0.009) tibial bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mineral content (BMC) and lower (P=0.05) lipid peroxidation compared to the CO-fed rats. Reduced lipid peroxidation was associated with increased tibial BMD (r2=0.08, P=0.02) and BMC (r2=0.71, P=0.01). On the other hand, rats fed FO or MO, rich in alpha-linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3-3), improved bone microarchitecture compared to rats fed CO or SO. Serum osteocalcin was higher (P=0.03) in rats fed FO compared to rats fed SO. Serum osteocalcin was associated with improved trabecular bone microarchitecture. The animal study results suggest consuming a variety of -3 PUFA sources to promote bone health during the growth stage.
Effect of medium/-6 long chain triglyceride-based emulsion on leucocyte death and inflammatory gene expression.	Lipid emulsion (LE) containing medium/-6 long chain triglyceride-based emulsion (MCT/-6 LCT LE) has been recommended in the place of -6 LCT-based emulsion to prevent impairment of immune function. The impact of MCT/-6 LCT LE on lymphocyte and neutrophil death and expression of genes related to inflammation was investigated. Seven volunteers were recruited and infusion of MCT/-6 LCT LE was performed for 6 h. Four volunteers received saline and no change was found. Blood samples were collected before, immediately afterwards and 18 h after LE infusion. Lymphocytes and neutrophils were studied immediately after isolation and after 24 and 48 h in culture. The following determinations were carried out: plasma-free fatty acids, triacylglycerol and cholesterol concentrations, plasma fatty acid composition, neutral lipid accumulation in lymphocytes and neutrophils, signs of lymphocyte and neutrophil death and lymphocyte expression of genes related to inflammation. MCT/-6 LCT LE induced lymphocyte and neutrophil death. The mechanism for MCT/-6 LCT LE-dependent induction of leucocyte death may involve changes in neutral lipid content and modulation of expression of genes related to cell death, proteolysis, cell signalling, inflammatory response, oxidative stress and transcription.
Apolipoprotein D mediates autocrine protection of astrocytes and controls their reactivity level, contributing to the functional maintenance of paraquat-challenged dopaminergic systems.	The study of glial derived factors induced by injury and degeneration is important to understand the nervous system response to deteriorating conditions. We focus on Apolipoprotein D (ApoD), a Lipocalin expressed by glia and strongly induced upon aging, injury or neurodegeneration. Here we study ApoD function in the brain of wild type and ApoD-KO mice by combining in vivo experiments with astrocyte cultures. Locomotor performance, dopamine concentration, and gene expression levels in the substantia nigra were assayed in mice treated with paraquat (PQ). The regulation of ApoD transcription, a molecular screening of oxidative stress (OS)-related genes, cell viability and oxidation status, and the effects of adding human ApoD were tested in astrocyte cultures. We demonstrate that (1) ApoD is required for an adequate locomotor performance, modifies the gene expression profile of PQ-challenged nigrostriatal system, and contributes to its functional maintenance; (2) ApoD expression in astrocytes is controlled by the OS-responsive JNK pathway; (3) ApoD contributes to an autocrine protecting mechanism in astrocytes, avoiding peroxidated lipids accumulation and altering the PQ transcriptional response of genes involved in ROS managing and the inflammatory response to OS; (4) Addition of human ApoD to ApoD-KO astrocytes promotes survival through a mechanism accompanied by protein internalization and modulation of astroglial reactivity. Our data support that ApoD contributes to the endurance of astrocytes and decreases their reactivity level in vitro and in vivo. ApoD function as a maintenance factor for astrocytes would suffice to explain the observed protection by ApoD of OS-vulnerable dopaminergic circuits in vivo.
Isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy in rats: influence of Acorus calamus Linn.: A. calamus attenuates cardiomyopathy.	Acorus calamus has been used as a traditional remedy since ancient days but its cardioprotective effect is not yet well characterized. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of A. calamus rhizome extract in isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. Male Wistar rats were treated with normal saline (0.5ml/kg, i.p.), isoproterenol (5mg/kg, i.p.), A. calamus (100 and 200mg/kg, respectively, by gavage) alone, amlodipine (9.0mg/kg, by gavage) alone, A. calamus (100 and 200mg/kg, respectively)+isoproterenol and amlodipine (9.0mg/kg)+isoproterenol, single dose/day for 30days, respectively. Isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy was characterized by a significant (P<0.001) increase in heart weigh/body weight ratio, calcineurin, nitric oxide, lactate dehydrogenase, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels as well as a significant (P<0.001) decrease in reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione-S-transferase levels. Treatment with A. calamus significantly (P<0.05 and P<0.01) attenuated isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy. No significant alteration was found in A. calamus-alone groups compared with the vehicle. Amlodipine is used as standard drug in this study. Thus, the result shows that A. calamus attenuates isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy. This could be due to attenuating calcineurin activity and oxidative stress.
Hepatoprotective effects of methanol extract of Carissa opaca leaves on CCl4-induced damage in rat.	Carissa opaca (Apocynaceae) leaves possess antioxidant activity and hepatoprotective effects, and so may provide a possible therapeutic alternative in hepatic disorders. The effect produced by methanolic extract of Carissa opaca leaves (MCL) was investigated on CCl4-induced liver damages in rat.
Oral bioavailability, therapeutic efficacy and reactive oxygen species scavenging properties of coenzyme Q10-loaded polymeric nanoparticles.	The present investigation consists in the development and characterization of CoQ10 loaded PLGA nanoparticles (CoQ10-NPs, size<100nm) by a scalable emulsion-diffusion-evaporation method. Thermal and crystallinity analysis collectively corroborated that CoQ10 was entrapped into the NPs in amorphous form. The lyophilized CoQ10-NPs were found to be stable for a period of 6 months (at room temperature). In vitro cell culture studies indicated that CoQ10-NPs significantly quenched ROS with nearly 10 fold higher efficacy than free CoQ10. Further, positively charged CoQ10-NPs were localized in two major sources of ROS generation: mitochondria and lysosomes. CoQ10-NPs showed improved oral bioavailability (4.28 times) as compared to free CoQ10. Finally remarkably higher hepatoprotective and anti-inflammatory activity of CoQ10-NPs as compared to free CoQ10 was observed due to mitigation of deleterious effects associated with the generation of free radicals. As elucidated by live noninvasive animal imaging, the higher anti-inflammatory activity of CoQ10-NPs can be attributed to significant accumulation of these NPs in the inflamed tissues.
Brassinolide alleviates salt stress and increases antioxidant activity of cowpea plants (Vigna sinensis).	Soil salinity is one of the most severe factors limiting growth and physiological response in Vigna sinensis plants. Plant salt stress tolerance requires the activation of complex metabolic activities including antioxidative pathways, especially reactive oxygen species and scavenging systems within the cells which can contribute to continued growth under water stress. The present investigation was carried out to study the role of brassinolide in enhancing tolerance of cowpea plants to salt stress (NaCl). Treatment with 0.05ppm brassinolide as foliar spray mitigated salt stress by inducing enzyme activities responsible for antioxidation, e.g., superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase, and detoxification as well as by elevating contents of ascorbic acid, tocopherol, and glutathione. On the other hand, total soluble proteins decreased with increasing NaCl concentrations in comparison with control plants. However, lipid peroxidation increased with increasing concentrations of NaCl. In addition to, the high concentrations of NaCl (100 and 150mM) decreased total phenol of cowpea plants as being compared with control plants. SDS-PAGE of protein revealed that NaCl treatments alone or in combination with 0.05ppm brassinolide were associated with the disappearance of some bands or appearance of unique ones in cowpea plants. Electrophoretic studies of -esterase, -esterase, polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase, acid phosphatase, and superoxide dismutase isoenzymes showed wide variations in their intensities and densities among all treatments.
Emblica officinalis exerts antihypertensive effect in a rat model of DOCA-salt-induced hypertension: role of (p) eNOS, NO and oxidative stress.	Emblica officinalis (EO) has antioxidant properties that could improve redox-sensitive vascular, cardiac and renal changes associated with deoxycorticosterone acetate/1% NaCl high salt (DOCA/HS)-induced hypertension. We determined whether hydroalcoholic lyophilized extract of EO may influence DOCA/HS-induced hypertension by modulating activity of (p) eNOS and endogenous antioxidants. Hypertension was induced in rats by DOCA-salt (20 mg/kg, s.c.) twice weekly for 5 weeks and replacing drinking water with 1% NaCl solution. These rats received cotreatment of different doses of EO (75, 150 and 300 mg/kg/day) for 5 weeks. EO significantly decreased arterial blood pressure and heart rate along with cardiac and renal hypertrophy in a dose-dependent fashion as compared to DOCA control rats. Increased TBARS and decreased endogenous antioxidants including GSH, SOD and GSHPx activity in serum, heart and kidney tissues of hypertensive rats were also normalized. Furthermore, this antihypertensive activity of EO was also linked with increased serum NO, K(+) levels and decreased Na(+) levels. Moreover, EO robustly increased activated eNOS expression in heart. Our results demonstrate that EO reduces oxidative stress, prevents development and progression of hypertension as well as cardiac and renal hypertrophy in DOCA/HS-induced hypertension via modulation of activated eNOS, endogenous antioxidants, serum NO and electrolyte levels.
Hypolipidemic and antioxidant effects of hydroxycinnamic acids, quercetin, and cyanidin 3-glucoside in hypercholesterolemic erythrocytes (in vitro study).	Four polyphenols: ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid (hydroxycinnamic acids), quercetin (flavonol) and cyanidin 3-glucoside (anthocyanin) were selected, and their antioxidant properties and their influence on cholesterol concentration in hypercholesterolemic and normal erythrocytes were investigated.
Extract of the plant Cotinus coggygria Scop. attenuates pyrogallol-induced hepatic oxidative stress in Wistar rats.	To examine the protective potential of the Cotinus coggygria Scop. methanol extract, Wistar rats were treated with the hepatotoxic compound pyrogallol, which possesses a potent ability to generate free radicals and induce oxidative stress. The ability of the extract to counteract the oxidative stress was examined in rats that were injected with the extract intraperitoneally (500mg(kg body weight)(-1)) either 2or 12h before the pyrogallol treatment. The extract possesses a reducing activity in vitro and an ability to chelate the ferrous ion both in vivo and in vitro. Application of the extract prior to pyrogallol treatment led to a decrease in the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase, increased activities of antioxidant enzymes and attenuation of DNA damage, as well as increased Akt activity and inhibition of NF-B protein expression. Treatment with the extract 12h prior to pyrogallol administration was more effective in suppressing pyrogallol-induced oxidative damage than the 2h pretreatment. Extract administration promoted an increase in acute phase reactants haptoglobin and (2)-macroglobulin that was short of a full-fledged acute phase response. Administration of the extract considerably improved the markers of oxidative stress, thus revealing a potential hepatoprotective activity. Our results suggest that Akt activation, NF-B inhibition, and induction of the acute phase play important roles in mediating hepatic protection by the extract. The greater effectiveness of the 12h pretreatment with extract points to the important role that preconditioning assumes in improving resistance to subsequent exposure to oxidative stress.
Comparative healing property of kombucha tea and black tea against indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration in mice: possible mechanism of action.	The healing activity of black tea (BT) and BT fermented with Candida parapsilosis and kombucha culture, designated as CT and KT respectively against the indomethacin-induced stomach ulceration has been studied in a mouse model. The KT sample (KT4) produced by fermenting BT for four days, showed the best DPPH radical scavenging capacity and phenolics contents. Hence the ulcer-healing activity of KT4 was compared with those of CT4 and BT. All the tea extracts (15 mg kg(-1)) could effectively heal the gastric ulceration as revealed from the histopathological and biochemical studies, with relative efficacy as KT4 > CT4  BT. The healing capacities of the tea extracts could be attributed to their antioxidant activity as well as the ability to protect the mucin content of the gastric tissues. In addition, the ability of KT4 to reduce gastric acid secretion might also contribute to its ulcer-healing activity. The tea preparation KT4 (15 mg kg(-1)) was as effective as the positive control, omeprazole (3 mg kg(-1)) in ulcer healing.
Chemopreventive efficacy of Wedelia calendulaceae against 20-methylcholanthrene-induced carcinogenesis in mice.	Present study reports the chemopreventive effect of methanol extract of Wedelia calendulaceae (MEWC) against 20-methylcholanthrene (20-MC) induced carcinogenesis in Swiss albino mice. MEWC was administered orally at 250 and 500 mg/kg body weight for 90 consecutive days after 24h of single subcutaneous administration of 20-MC (200 g) in mice and observed for 15 weeks to record tumor incidence (fibrosarcoma) and survival. After 15 weeks the mice were sacrificed for the estimation of hematological profiles and liver biochemical parameters viz. lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT). MEWC treatment markedly reduced tumor incidence and prolonged life span of sarcoma bearing mice as compared to 20-MC control. Hematological profiles were significantly (p<0.001) restored to normal levels in MEWC treated mice. MEWC treatment significantly (p<0.001) modulated the aforesaid liver biochemical parameters as compared to 20-MC control. Therefore, W. calendulaceae possess remarkable chemopreventive efficacy in Swiss mice.
Oxidative stress induced by thyroid dysfunction in rat erythrocytes and heart.	The aim of this study was to determine whether the effects of thyroid dysfunction induce oxidative stress in the blood and heart of male Wistar rats. Rats were randomly divided into three groups: group I served as control rats. Group II was treated daily with 0.05% benzythiouracile (BTU) administered in drinking water. Rats of group III have received l-thyroxine sodium salt (0.0012%), in drinking water. The results showed that thyroid dysfunction rats had poor growth performance. On the other hand, in hyperthyroid rats, a marked decrease compared with control occurred of some hematological parameters such red blood cell number (RBC), haemoglobin (Hb) concentration and haematocrit (Ht). There was also a significant increase in erythrocyte numbers and heart TBARS concentrations in hypothyroid rats compared with control. These results were associated with a fall in the total antioxidant status (TAS) in the serum of the hyperthyroid rats. Alteration of the antioxidant system in the hypo-/hyperthyroidism-induced rats was confirmed by the significant increase of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities and a decline in glutathione (GSH) content in both tissues were detected in hyperthyroid group compared to controls. On the other hand, serum transaminase activities (aspartate transaminase (AST); alanine transaminase (ALT)) were elevated indicating hepatic cellular damage after treatment with exogenous L-thyroxine. Moreover, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) activities were increased in the hyperthyroidism rats. These results indicated that excessive thyroxin (long term) ingestion had an adverse effect on animal health and performance. We conclude that thyroid dysfunction induces oxidative stress and modifies some biochemical parameters of erythrocytes, heart and liver disease; our results show the occurrence of a state of oxidizing stress in relation to hyperthyroidism.
Multi-endpoint toxicities on Chinese rare minnow (Gobiocypris rarus) fed with different diets.	To compare the effects of three diets, rare minnow was fed with three diets from 30 dph to mature period. The activities of EROD, PROD, SOD and GST were measured in the WBHs as well as Vtg and TBARS concentrations at 60 dph. The rest fish were fed until adulthood for breeding studies. The group A served as the control group. It was found that Vtg, GST and EROD were significantly increased in the groups B and C, but SOD, TBARS and PROD levels were significantly increased only in the group C. In the adulthood, Vtg was significantly induced in the males in the group C. In generation F1, inhibition of CAT D activities and decrease of reproductive success were only found in pellet A group, but not in pellet B group. These findings indicate that the selection of diet is extremely important to assure veracity of the experiment results.
Myocardial oxidative stress following sub-chronic and chronic oral cadmium exposure in rats.	We investigated the effect of oral cadmium intoxication on the antioxidant/prooxidant status in serum and heart. Wistar rats, separated into four groups, that received: (1) tap water for 60 days (control); (2), (3) and (4) Cd(2+) (15 ppm)-containing water, during 15, 30 and 60 days, respectively. Lipoperoxidation increased in serum and heart of group 4. Circulating paraoxonase-1 activity was higher in groups 2 and 3. Protein carbonyl-groups increased while total and reduced glutathione levels decreased in the heart after 15 days of cadmium intoxication. Cardiac catalase activity was higher in groups 3 and 4 but glutathione peroxidase activity diminished in the heart of all poisoned groups. Superoxide dismutase transcript levels as well as Nrf2 expression also increased in the heart of groups 2 and 3, while gp91phox and p47phox mRNA levels rose only in group 3. We suggest cadmium intoxication modifies antioxidant/prooxidant ratio in serum and heart in a time-of-exposure-dependent way.
Asoxime (HI-6) impact on dogs after one and tenfold therapeutic doses: assessment of adverse effects, distribution, and oxidative stress.	Asoxime (HI-6) is a well known oxime reactivator used for counteracting intoxication by nerve agents. It is able to reactivate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibited even by sarin or soman. The present experiment was aimed to determine markers of oxidative stress represented by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and antioxidants represented by ferric reducing antioxidant power, reduced and oxidized glutathione in a Beagle dog model. Two groups of dogs were intramuscularly exposed to single (11.4 mg/kg.b.wt.) or tenfold (114 mg/kg.b.wt.) human therapeutically doses of HI-6. HI-6 affinity for AChE in vitro was evaluated in a separate experiment. Complete serum biochemistry and pharmacokinetics were also performed with significant alteration in blood urea nitrogen, creatine phosphokinase, glucose and triglycerides. Blood samples were collected before HI-6 application and after 30, 60, and 120 min. The overall HI-6 impact on organism is discussed.
Interactions of zinc and cadmium toxicity in their effects on growth and in antioxidative systems in tomato plants (Solanum lycopersicum).	The interaction between zinc and cadmium was investigated in tomato plants (Solanum lycopersicum). Ten-day-old seedlings were treated with 10 micromol/L CdCl2 associated to different concentrations of ZnCl2 (10, 50, 100, and 150 micromol/L). Zn supply clearly reduced Cd accumulation in leaves and simultaneously increased Zn concentration. Cd induced oxidative stress in leaves as indicated by an increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) level and chlorophyll breakdown. Furthermore, compared with control, Cd-treated plants had significantly higher activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1), whereas, catalase (CAT, EC 1.111.1.6), ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11), and glutathione reductase (GR, EC 1.6.4.2) activities were significantly suppressed by Cd addition. Zn supplementation, at low level, restored and enhanced the functional activity of these enzymes (SOD, CAT, APX and GR) as compared to Cd-alone-treated plants. The beneficial effect of adequate Zn level on Cd toxicity was confirmed by a significant decrease in TBARS level and restoration of chlorophyll content. However, when Zn was added at high level in combination with Cd there was an accumulation of oxidative stress, which was higher than that for Cd or excess Zn alone treatments. These results suggested that higher Zn concentrations and Cd are synergistic in their effect on plant growth parameters and oxidative stress.
Grape skin extract reduced pulmonary oxidative response in mice exposed to cigarette smoke.	Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis and progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cigarette smoke (CS) is known to be one of the major sources of oxidants in the lungs. We postulated that acute administration of GSE (grape skin extract) would either reduce or protect the ALI (acute lung inflammation) produced by CS via NO release.
Baicalein inhibits oxidative stress-induced cellular damage via antioxidant effects.	Baicalein (5,6,7-trihydroxyflavone) is a phenolic flavonoid compound derived mainly from the root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, a medicinal plant traditionally used in oriental medicine. In our previous study, baicalein attenuated mitochondrial oxidative stress by scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) and by induction of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 transcription factor-mediated manganese superoxide dismutase. In the present study, the protective effects of baicalein against oxidative stress-induced damage, especially cellular components including DNA, lipid, and protein, were studied. The results of this study showed that baicalein scavenged intracellular ROS. Baicalein inhibited the HO-induced DNA damage that was demonstrated by decreased phospho-H2A.X expression and DNA tail formation. In addition, it prevented the lipid peroxidation shown by the fluorescence intensity of diphenyl-1-pyrenylphosphine and the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. Moreover, baicalein inhibited protein oxidation demonstrated by protein carbonyl formation. Furthermore, baicalein protected cells via the inhibition of apoptosis induced by HO. The findings of this study suggest that baicalein provides protection for cellular components against oxidative damage via scavenging ROS and inhibiting apoptosis.
Cardioprotective efficacy of a novel antioxidant mix VitaePro against ex vivo myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.	Circumstantial evidence frequently implicates oxygen-derived free radicals and oxidative stress as mediators of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Therefore, external supplementation of natural antioxidants plays a main role as cardioprotective compounds. This study was designed to evaluate the cardioprotective effect of VitaePro (70mg/kg body weight, 21days), a novel antioxidant mix of astaxanthin, lutein and zeaxanthin in a rat ex vivo model of ischemia/reperfusion injury. The cardioprotective effect of VitaePro was also compared with vitamin E (70mg/kg body weight, 21days) treatment. Rats were randomized into control I/R (CIR), VitaePro I/R (VPIR) and Vitamin E I/R (VEIR). After 21days of oral treatment, isolated hearts from each group were subjected to 30min of ischemia followed by 2h of reperfusion. In the VPIR group compared to CIR and VEIR groups at 2h of reperfusion, increased left ventricular functional recovery, such as left ventricular developed pressure (92.70.7 vs. 85.30.3 and 89.41.2mm Hg), dp/dt max (2518.777.9 vs. 1962.524 and 2255.7126.6mm Hg/s), and aortic flow (21.51.36 vs. 4.40.6 and 13.21.02ml/min) were observed. The infarct size (27.681.7 vs. 45.41.8 and 35.40.6%), apoptotic cardiomyocytes (61.710.6 vs. 194.114.8 and 118.715.4 counts/100 HPF) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances levels (803 vs. 1275 and 103 2nM/mg tissue) also were decreased in VPIR group when compared to CIR and VEIR. As evidenced by the data, administration of vitamin E offered substantial cardioprotection to I/R injury, but VitaePro enhanced cardioprotection significantly more than vitamin E treatment. Taken in concert, the results of this study suggests that the oral ingestion of VitaePro protects myocardium from ischemia/reperfusion injury by decreasing oxidative stress and apoptosis, which may be of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of cardiovascular complications. However, further in vivo animal and human intervention studies are warranted before establishing any recommendations about usage of VitaePro for human cardiovascular complications. 
Piperine as an adjuvant increases the efficacy of curcumin in mitigating benzo(a)pyrene toxicity.	In the present study, the antioxidative and anticlastogenic effects of curcumin and piperine separately and in combination have been investigated against benzo(a)pyrene (BaP)-mediated toxicity in mice. Male Swiss albino mice were pretreated with curcumin (100 mg kg(-1) body weight) and piperine (20 mg kg(-1) body weight) separately as well as in combination orally in corn oil for 7 days; and subsequently, after 2 h of pretreatment, BaP was administered orally in corn oil (125 mg kg(-1) body weight). A single dose of BaP in normal mice increased the levels of lipid peroxidation (LPO), protein carbonyl content (PCC), and frequency of bone marrow micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MNPCEs) but decreased significantly the levels of endogenous antioxidants such as superoxide dismutases (SODs), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), catalase (CAT) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the liver. Pretreatments with curcumin and curcumin plus piperine before administration of single dose of BaP significantly decreased the levels of LPO, PCC, and incidence of MNPCEs but elevated the level of GSH and enzyme activities of GPx, GR, SOD, CAT, and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) when compared to the BaP-treated group. The effect of curcumin plus piperine is more pronounced as compared to curcumin in attenuating BaP-induced oxidative insult and clastogenicity.
The prooxidant action of dietary antioxidants leading to cellular DNA breakage and anticancer effects: implications for chemotherapeutic action against cancer.	Plant-derived dietary antioxidants have attracted considerable interest in recent past for their ability to induce apoptosis and regression of tumors in animal models. While it is believed that the antioxidant properties of these agents may contribute to lowering the risk of cancer induction by impeding oxidative injury to DNA, it could not account for apoptosis induction and chemotherapeutic observations. In this article, we show that dietary antioxidants can alternatively switch to a prooxidant action in the presence of transition metals such as copper. Such a prooxidant action leads to strand breaks in cellular DNA and growth inhibition in cancer cells. Further, the cellular DNA breakage and anticancer effects were found to be significantly enhanced in the presence of copper ions. Moreover, inhibition of antioxidant-induced DNA strand breaks and oxidative stress by Cu(I)-specific chelators bathocuproine and neocuproine demonstrated the role of endogenous copper in the induction of the prooxidant mechanism. Since it is well established that tissue, cellular, and serum copper levels are considerably elevated in various malignancies, such a prooxidant cytotoxic mechanism better explains the anticancer activity of dietary antioxidants against cancer cells. 
Does oxidative stress affect the activity of the sodium-proton exchanger?	Accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) takes place in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF). Oxidative stress causes disorders in the activity of the sodium-proton exchanger (NHE). Studies on NHE in CRF produced results that are discrepant and difficult to interpret. The aim of this study was to demonstrate that oxidative stress had an effect on the activity of NHE.
Proline alters antioxidant enzyme defenses and lipoperoxidation in the erythrocytes and plasma of rats: in vitro and in vivo studies.	In the present study, we investigated, in vivo (acute and chronic) and in vitro, the effects of proline on the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in erythrocytes and also investigated the effect on thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in the plasma of rats. For the experiments, the number of animals per group ranged from eight to ten. For acute administration, 29-day-old rats received one subcutaneous injection of proline (18.2 mol/g body weight) or an equivalent volume of 0.9% saline solution (control) and were killed 1 h later. For chronic treatment, buffered proline was injected subcutaneously into rats twice a day at 10 h intervals from the 6th to the 28th day of age. Rats were killed 12 h after the last injection. For in vitro studies, proline (30.0 M to 1.0 mM) was added to the incubation medium. Results showed that acute administration of proline reduced CAT and increased SOD activities, while chronic treatment increased the activities of CAT and SOD in erythrocytes and TBARS in the plasma of rats. Furthermore, in vitro studies showed that proline increased TBARS in the plasma (0.5 and 1.0 mM) and CAT activity (1.0 mM) in the erythrocytes of rats. The influence of the antioxidants (-tocopherol plus ascorbic acid) on the effects elicited by proline was also studied. Treatment with antioxidants for 1 week or from the 6th to the 28th day of age prevented the alterations caused by acute and chronic, respectively, proline administration on the oxidative parameters evaluated. Data indicate that proline alters antioxidant defenses and induces lipid peroxidation in the blood of rats.
MK-801 alters Na+, K+-ATPase activity and oxidative status in zebrafish brain: reversal by antipsychotic drugs.	Schizophrenia is a debilitating mental disorder with a global prevalence of 1% and its etiology remains poorly understood. In the current study we investigated the influence of antipsychotic drugs on the effects of MK-801 administration, which is a drug that mimics biochemical changes observed in schizophrenia, on Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity and some parameters of oxidative stress in zebrafish brain. Our results showed that MK-801 treatment significantly decreased Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity, and all antipsychotics tested prevented such effects. Acute MK-801 treatment did not alter reactive oxygen/nitrogen species by 2'7'-dichlorofluorscein (H2DCF) oxidation assay, but increased the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), when compared with controls. Some antipsychotics such as sulpiride, olanzapine, and haloperidol prevented the increase of TBARS caused by MK-801. These findings indicate oxidative damage might be a mechanism involved in the decrease of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity induced by MK-801. The parameters evaluated in this study had not yet been tested in this animal model using the MK-801, suggesting that zebrafish is an animal model that can contribute for providing information on potential treatments and disease characteristics.
Ethanol-induced oxidative stress: the role of binaphthyl diselenide as a potent antioxidant.	It is widely accepted that oxidative stress plays a central role in alcohol-induced pathogenesis. The protective effect of binaphthyl diselenide (NapSe)2 was investigated in ethanol (Etoh)-induced brain injury. Thirty male adult Wistar rats were divided randomly into five groups of six animals each and treated as follows: (1) The control group received the vehicle (soy bean oil, 1 mL/kg, p.o.). (2) Ethanol group of animals was administered with ethanol (70% v/v, 2 mL/kg, p.o.). (3) (NapSe)2 1 mg/kg, 1 mL/kg plus ethanol 70% (v/v, 2 mL/kg, p.o. (5) (NapSe)2 10 mg/kg, 1 mL/kg) plus ethanol 70% (v/v, 2 mL/kg, p.o). After acute treatment, all rats were sacrificed by decapitation. Evidence for oxidative stress in rat brain was obtained from the observed levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive species, of non-protein thiol (NPSH) groups, and of ascorbic acid, as well as from the activities of catalase (CAT) and of superoxide dismutase (SOD). (NapSe)2 compensated the deficits in the antioxidant defense mechanisms (CAT, SOD, NPSH, and ascorbic acid), and suppressed lipid peroxidation in rat brain resulting from Etoh administration. It was concluded that ethanol exposure causes alterations in the antioxidant defense system and induces oxidative stress in rat brain. (NaPSe)2 at 5 mg/kg restored the antioxidant defenses in rat brain and mitigated the toxic effects of alcohol, suggesting that could be used as a potential therapeutic agent for alcohol-induced oxidative damage in rat brain.
Oxidant damage in Kashin-Beck disease and a rat Kashin-Beck disease model by employing T-2 toxin treatment under selenium deficient conditions.	Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an endemic degenerative osteoarthropathy, but the mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis remains unclear. This study compares antioxidant capacity and lipid peroxidation using a novel model, in which rats were administered a selenium-deficient diet for 4 weeks prior to their exposure to T-2 toxin for 4 weeks. Changes in cell morphology and empty chondrocyte lacunae indicative of cell death, as well as cartilage proteoglycan loss in the deep zone of articular cartilage of knee joints were observed in rats with selenium-deficient diet plus T-2 toxin treatment. These changes were similar to those observed previously in KBD. The levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), indicative of lipid peroxidation in serum and cartilage, were significantly increased in all experimental groups compared to the normal diet group, while the levels of antioxidants, measured as total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC), catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidases (GPX), in serum and cartilage were significantly lower than that in the normal diet group. The mRNA expression of those antioxidants in cartilage tissue was significantly reduced by T-2 toxin alone or by selenium-deficient diet plus T-2 toxin treatment. These results indicate that increasing TBARS and decreasing antioxidants in serum and cartilage by T-2 toxin treatment with a selenium-deficient nutritional status may alter oxidative stress in joint tissues and contribute to the pathological process of cartilage damage in KBD.
Daily variation in antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation in lungs of a tropical bird Perdicula asiatica: role of melatonin and nuclear receptor ROR.	The wild animals are exposed in nature to more oxidative stress than any laboratory animals. Studies on oxidative stress of brain, liver and kidney are quite common while very less reports are available on respiratory system when it is the most susceptible organ to various stressors. We checked the oxidative stress of lung tissue of a wild seasonally breeding bird Perdicula asiatica by noting down the daily variation in antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase) levels, lipid peroxidation in terms of malondialdehyde level and total antioxidant status during reproductively active (RAP) and inactive phase (RIP). On the other hand melatonin has been accepted as free radical scavenger acting via receptor (nuclear receptor) or non receptor pathway. To pin point the role of melatonin in regulation of antioxidant enzymes via non receptor mediated pathway in lungs of bird, we checked variation in the nuclear melatonin receptor ROR. Antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase) exhibited a marked 24h rhythm in lungs being high during night time and coincided almost with the peak of melatonin and total antioxidant status where as malondialdehyde level and nuclear receptor ROR showed inverse relationship with all the above mentioned parameters. These findings suggest that melatonin might be acting as an antioxidant for the free radical load of lung tissue of a tropical bird P. asiatica and its action might be via nuclear receptor ROR.
Antioxidant activity and low toxicity of (E)-1-(1-(methylthio)-1-(selenopheny) hept-1-en-2-yl) pyrrolidin-2-one.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the potential pharmacological and toxicological properties of (E)-1-(1-(methylthio)-1-(selenopheny) hept-1-en-2-yl) pyrrolidin-2-one (compound 1), an organoselenium compound. In vitro experiments showed that compound 1 presented a reduction in the lipid peroxidation induced by Fe in thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) production, and in the generation of reactive species caused by Fe/malonate in DCFH-DA oxidation. The high dose (500 mg/kg) induced an increase on ALT but not on AST activity. Hepatic, but not cerebral, -ALA-D activity from mice treated with 500 mg/kg presented a significant inhibition. Brain catalase activity was significantly inhibited by 100 mg/kg whereas hepatic catalase activity showed a significant increase at all doses. Hepatic lipid peroxidation was diminished only at lowest dose (100 mg/kg) whereas for brain tissue, all doses induced a significant reduction in TBARS levels. Brain and liver ascorbic acid contents were increased only at highest dose of compound 1. Urea and creatinine levels were not significantly altered by treatments. This is a promising compound with antioxidant activity and low toxicity, suggesting the potential beneficial activity of compound 1 against oxidative damage in many parameters studied in rats and mice.
Antihyperglycemic and antioxidant activities of medicinal plant Stereospermum suaveolens in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	The ethanol extract of Stereospermum suaveolens (EESS) bark was evaluated for its antihyperglycemic in addition to antioxidant effects in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats by acute and subacute models at dose levels of 200 and 400 mg/kg body weight, given orally. The ethanol extract showed a significant reduction in fasting blood glucose levels when compared to the standard drug, oral Glibenclamide (0.5 mg/kg body weight). The serum of rats treated with ethanol extract showed decreased levels of serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase, serum alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, creatinine, urea, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and increased level of total proteins. EESS showed reduction in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances level and significantly increased the body weight (P < .001), glycogen, reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and catalase activities, compared with STZ diabetic control in a dose-dependent manner. This finding shows that the ethanol extract of Stereospermum suaveolens exhibits potent antihyperglycemic and antioxidant properties.
Cytotoxic effects of copper overload on human-derived lung and liver cells in culture.	Copper (Cu) is an essential trace metal used as a catalytic cofactor for many enzymes. However, it can have nocive effects when it participates in the Fenton reaction, producing reactive oxygen species (ROS). Excess Cu is present in the plasma of patients with diseases in which cell survival is crucial. In order to investigate the effect of Cu overload on the induction of cellular damage we chose two human cell lines derived from liver (HepG2) and lung (A-549) as representative cells exposed to exogenous (polluted air) and/or endogenous (systemic) Cu overload.
Type 2 diabetic patients and their offspring show altered parameters of iron status, oxidative stress and genes related to mitochondrial activity.	Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is directly related to alterations in iron status, oxidative stress and decreased mitochondrial activity, but the possible interaction of these parameters among T2D patients and their offspring is unclear. The whole study included 301 subjects: 77 T2D patients and one of their offspring and 51 control subjects with one of their offspring. The offspring were older than 20years old. We measured parameters of iron status (serum iron, ferritin and transferrin receptor), diabetes (pre and post-prandial glucose, insulin, lipids), oxidative stress (Heme oxygenase activity, TBARS, SOD, GSH, Vitamin E), as well as the expression of genes in blood leukocytes related to mitochondrial apopotosis (mitofusin and Bcl/Bax ratios). The offspring of T2D patients had increased levels of serum ferritin (P<0.01) and lower transferrin receptor (P<0.008); higher insulin (P<0.03) and total and LDL cholesterol; higher heme oxygenase and SOD activities increased TBARS and lower GSH; decreased mitofusin and Bcl/Bax expression ratios compared to offspring of normal subjects. These results suggest that the offspring of T2D patients could have an increased metabolic risk of develop a cardiovascular disease mediated by oxidative stress and iron status.
Disruption of redox homeostasis in cerebral cortex of developing rats by acylcarnitines accumulating in medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.	Medium-chain fatty acids and acylcarnitines accumulate in medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD), the most frequent fatty acid oxidation defect clinically characterized by episodic crises with vomiting, seizures and coma. Considering that the pathophysiology of the neurological symptoms observed in MCADD is poorly known and, to our knowledge, there is no report on the involvement of acylcarnitines in the brain damage presented by the affected patients, the objective of the present study was to investigate the in vitro effects of hexanoylcarnitine (HC), octanoylcarnitine, decanoylcarnitine (DC) and cis-4-decenoylcarnitine (cDC) at concentrations varying from 0.01 to 1.0mM on important oxidative stress parameters in cerebral cortex of young rats. HC, DC and cDC significantly induced lipid peroxidation, as determined by increased thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS) values. In addition, carbonyl formation was significantly augmented and sulfhydryl content diminished by DC, reflecting induction of protein oxidative damage. HC, DC and cDC also decreased glutathione (GSH) levels, the most important brain antioxidant defense. Furthermore, DC-induced elevation of TBA-RS values and decrease of GSH levels were prevented by the free radical scavengers melatonin and -tocopherol, indicating the involvement of reactive oxygen species in these effects. We also found that l-carnitine itself did not induce lipid and protein oxidative damage, neither reduced the antioxidant defenses. Our present data show that the major medium-chain acylcarnitines accumulating in MCADD elicit oxidative stress in rat brain. It is therefore presumed that these compounds may be involved to a certain extent in the pathogenesis of the neurologic dysfunction of MCADD.
Electron paramagnetic resonance study of lipid and protein membrane components of erythrocytes oxidized with hydrogen peroxide.	Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy of spin labels was used to monitor membrane dynamic changes in erythrocytes subjected to oxidative stress with hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). The lipid spin label, 5-doxyl stearic acid, responded to dramatic reductions in membrane fluidity, which was correlated with increases in the protein content of the membrane. Membrane rigidity, associated with the binding of hemoglobin (Hb) to the erythrocyte membrane, was also indicated by a spin-labeled maleimide, 5-MSL, covalently bound to the sulfhydryl groups of membrane proteins. At 2% hematocrit, these alterations in membrane occurred at very low concentrations of H(2)O(2) (50 M) after only 5 min of incubation at 37C in azide phosphate buffer, pH 7.4. Lipid peroxidation, suggested by oxidative hemolysis and malondialdehyde formation, started at 300 M H(2)O(2) (for incubation of 3 h), which is a concentration about six times higher than those detected with the probes. Ascorbic acid and -tocopherol protected the membrane against lipoperoxidation, but did not prevent the binding of proteins to the erythrocyte membrane. Moreover, the antioxidant (+)-catechin, which also failed to prevent the cross-linking of cytoskeletal proteins with Hb, was very effective in protecting erythrocyte ghosts from lipid peroxidation induced by the Fenton reaction. This study also showed that EPR spectroscopy can be useful to assess the molecular dynamics of red blood cell membranes in both the lipid and protein domains and examine oxidation processes in a system that is so vulnerable to oxidation.
Exogenous arachidonate restores the dimethoate-induced inhibition of steroidogenesis in rat interstitial cells.	The present work studies the potential restorative effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA, 5 M/24 h) on the dimethoate (DMT)-induced inhibition of testosterone biosynthesis in Leydig cells isolated from rat testes. Various fatty acids (FA) from the n-6 (18:2, 20:3, 20:4, 22:4 and 22:5) and n-3 (18.3, 20:5, 22:5, 22:6) series were assayed in Leydig cells, alone (as delipidated BSA complexes) and in combination with DMT (1 ppm). The n-6 FA stimulated lipid peroxidation (LPO) and inhibited the activities of steroidogenic enzymes (3- and 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases). The n-3 FA exerted an anti-oxidant effect, decreasing the production of thiobarbituric-acid reactive substances (TBARS) and inhibiting phospholipase A(2) activity. The biosynthesis of testosterone in DMT-treated cultures was completely normalized by ARA (20:4n-6) and partially restored by the addition of 20:3n-6, increasing ARA content inside the mitochondria. The other FA assayed failed to restore androgenesis. COX-2 protein and prostaglandin F2 and E2 production were stimulated by 20:3n-6, ARA, 18:3n-3 and 20:5 n-3. COX-2 protein decreased upon addition of 22:5n-3 and 22:6n-3. StAR protein was increased by ARA and partially increased by 20:3n-6, likely due to its metabolic conversion into ARA. Both FA increased the mitochondrial cholesterol pool available for testosterone biosynthesis. The rate of androgenesis is likely the result of various regulatory factors acting concomitantly on the physiology of Leydig cells.
Modulation of oxidative stress by -glutamylcysteine (GGC) and conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) isomer mixture in human umbilical vein endothelial cells.	Individually, -glutamylcysteine (GGC), a dipeptide and precursor of glutathione (GSH), and conjugated linoleic acid (CLA), a trans-fatty acid, exhibit antioxidant properties. The objective of this study was to compare effects of co-administration of GGC and CLA to treatment with GGC alone on oxidative stress and GSH synthesis in human endothelial cells. Changes in levels of 8-epi-PGF2, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), GSH, total antioxidants, GSH synthetase (GSS) expression, and transcription factor DNA binding were assessed in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) treated with GGC alone (100 mol/L) or combined with CLA isomer mixture (10, 50, 100 mol/L) for 24h. Significantly higher levels of TBARS, 8-epi-PGF2, GSH, and GSS protein were found in cells treated with GGC and 10 mol/L CLA, compared to cells treated with GGC alone, indicative of prooxidant effects of CLA. Approximately 40% cell death was microscopically observed in cells incubated with GGC and 100 mol/L CLA. Despite lower levels of GSH, treatment with GGC and 50 mol/L CLA appeared to be protective from oxidative stress similar to treatment with GGC alone, as indicated by lower levels of TBARS, compared to control cells not treated with GGC and CLA.
Hepatoprotective effects of dieckol-rich phlorotannins from Ecklonia cava, a brown seaweed, against ethanol induced liver damage in BALB/c mice.	Alcoholic liver disease, which is one of the most serious liver disorders, has been known to cause by ethanol intake. In the present study, in vivo hepatoprotective effects of dieckol-rich phlorotannins (DRP) from Ecklonia cava, a brown seaweed, on ethanol induced hepatic damage in BALB/c mice liver were investigated. After administration of 5 and 25mg/kg mouse of DRP and 4 g/kg mice ethanol, the body weights and survival rates were increased as compared to the control, which is ethanol-treated group without DRP. The glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and glutamic pyruvic transaminase levels in the serum were lower than those of the control. DRP exhibited a reduction of the total cholesterol. The lower levels of SOD enzyme and a reduction of the formation of malondialdehyde were occurred in mice fed with 5 and 25mg/kg mouse of DRP. Finally the effect on improvement of fatty liver induced by ethanol was observed by taking out the liver immediately after dissecting the mouse. However, no significant difference was observed on hepatic histopathological changes. In conclusion, this study indicated that DRP could protect liver injury induced by ethanol in vivo. It suggested that DRP possesses the beneficial effect to human against ethanol-induced liver injury.
Effects of parboiled rice diet on oxidative stress parameters in kidney of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	The effect of parboiled rice (PR) and white rice (WR) diets on oxidative stress (OS) parameters was investigated in the kidneys of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes (40 mg kg(-1), iv). The experimental groups (n=8) were control fed with PR (CPR), control fed with WR, diabetic fed with PR, and diabetic fed with WR. After 30 days of treatment, all animals were anesthetized and exsanguinated before removal of kidneys, which were used to determine thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides, carbonyl protein, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase activities, and levels of glutathione (GSH). Total phenolic compounds were determined in WR and PR grains. Our data indicated that diabetes induced increase in TBARS and lipid hydroperoxides levels. Although PR has not prevented the rise in the levels of these measurements, its consumption by our animals resulted in higher GPx activity and GSH content than that of the CPR. Moreover, PR also presented concentration of total phenolic compounds 127% higher than WR grains. Thus, its consumption in this diabetic condition is suggested because this seems to confer greater protection against OS in the renal tissue of diabetic animals.
Similarities in serum oxidative stress markers and inflammatory cytokines in patients with overt schizophrenia at early and late stages of chronicity.	Schizophrenia (SZ) is a debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder that strikes at a critical period of a young person's life. Its pathophysiology could be the result of deregulation of synaptic plasticity, with downstream alterations of inflammatory immune processes regulate by cytokines, impaired antioxidant defense and increased lipid peroxidation. The aim of this study was to examine serum oxidative stress markers and inflammatory cytokines in early and late phases of chronic SZ. Twenty-two patients at early stage (within first 10 years of a psychotic episode), 39 at late stage (minimum 10 years after diagnosis of SZ) and their respective matched controls were included. Each subject had 5 ml blood samples collected by venipuncture to examined thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), total reactive antioxidant potential (TRAP), protein carbonyl content (PCC), Interleukins 6 and 10 (IL-6, IL-10) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). TBARS, IL-6 and PCC levels were significantly higher in patients with SZ at early and late stages than in controls. There were no differences for TRAP and TNF-alpha levels in patients with SZ at early and late stages than in controls. IL-10 levels were decreased in patients at late stage and a decrease trend in early stage was found. Results provided evidence consistent with comparable biological markers across chronic SZ. The concept of biochemical staging proposed by others for bipolar disorder is not seen in this cohort of patients with SZ, at least for cytokines and oxidative stress markers. Our findings reinforce the need of assessment of individuals in ultra high risk to develop psychosis and first-episode population.
Evidence of increased oxidative stress in aged mesenteric lymphatic vessels.	We have previously shown that aging is associated with weakened rat mesenteric lymphatic vessel (MLV) contractility. However, the specific mechanisms contributing to this aging-associated contractile degeneration remain unknown. Aging is often associated with elevations in oxidative stress, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been shown to reduce the contractility of MLV. Thus in the present study, we sought to assess whether aging is associated with increased levels of oxidative stress and oxidative damage in MLV.
2,2'-dipyridyl diselenide is a better antioxidant than other disubstituted diaryl diselenides.	The aim of this study was to investigate the in vitro antioxidant activity of 2,2'-dipyridyl diselenide (e) by comparing this effect with m-trifluoromethyl-diphenyl diselenide (a), p-fluor-diphenyl diselenide (b), p-chloro-diphenyl diselenide (c), and p-methoxyl-diphenyl diselenide (d) in rat liver homogenate. We also investigated if the mechanisms involved in the antioxidant property of 2,2'-dipyridyl diselenide are the same that of other diselenides. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and protein carbonyl (PC) levels were determined in rat liver homogenate, as indicators of antioxidant activity. Dehydroascorbate (DHA) reductase- and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-like activities, 2,2'-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) radical-scavenging activities and the protection against the oxidation of Fe(2+) were determined to better understand the antioxidant property of compounds. -Aminolevulinic dehydratase (-ALA-D) activity was also carried out in rat liver homogenates, as a toxicological parameter. Compound e showed the highest potency in reducing TBARS (order of IC(50) values: e < b  a < d  c) and PC (order of IC(50) values: e < c  b  a < d) levels and lower potency in inhibiting -ALA-D activity than other diselenides. Compound e at all concentrations tested had no enzyme-mimetic property, but had radical-scavenging activity (5 M) and protected against the oxidation of Fe(2+) (50 M); while compounds a-d showed GST and DHA-mimetic activities and protected against the oxidation of Fe(2+), but had not radical-scavenging activities. This study indicates that (i) 2,2'-dipyridyl diselenide (e) had better in vitro antioxidant effect than other diselenides and lower inhibitory effect on -ALA-D activity, (ii) the presence of pyridine ring is responsible for the best antioxidant effect of this compound, and (iii) 2,2'-dipyridyl diselenide acts by different mechanisms of other diselenides.
Radioresistant Sf9 insect cells display moderate resistance against cumene hydroperoxide.	Lepidopteran insect cells serve as excellent model to study stress responses and are known to display resistance against DNA damaging agents including ionizing radiation; however, limited information is available on the effects of membrane damaging agents in these cells. In this study, we investigated the response of Sf9 cells (derived from ovaries of Spodoptera frugiperda; order Lepidoptera) to cumene hydroperoxide (CHPx), compared to human BMG-1 cells. CHPx treatment at doses lethal for human cells also caused typical necrosis in Sf9. Severe necrosis in human BMG-1 cells was observed at 125 M, whereas similar effect in Sf9 cells was observed at 250 M. In Sf9 cells, CHPx (250 M) induced negligible changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and intracellular reactive oxygen species, while moderate effect was observed on intracellular calcium distribution. Reduced DNA damage and lipid (including cardiolipin) oxidation was observed in Sf9 cells that could be due to moderate total antioxidant status and constitutive/induced glutathione S-transferase activity. This study importantly demonstrates that Lepidopteran insect cells having extensive resistance towards DNA damaging agents show only moderately higher resistance to membrane damaging agents. A stronger reducing environment involving efficient antioxidant system seems to contribute significantly in this response.
Changes in oxidative stress parameters in relation to age, growth and reproduction in the short-lived catarina scallop Argopecten ventricosus reared in its natural environment.	Increase in oxidative damage and decrease in cellular maintenance is often associated with aging, but, in marine ectotherms, both processes are also strongly influenced by somatic growth, maturation and reproduction. In this study, we used a single cohort of the short-lived catarina scallop Argopecten ventricosus, to investigate the effects of somatic growth, reproduction and aging on oxidative damage parameters (protein carbonyls, TBARS and lipofuscin) and cellular maintenance mechanisms (antioxidant activity and apoptosis) in scallops, caged in their natural environment. The concentrations of protein carbonyls and TBARS increased steeply during the early period of fast growth and during reproduction in one-year-old scallops. However, oxidative damage was transient, and apoptotic cell death played a pivotal role in eliminating damage in gill, mantle and muscle tissues of young scallops. Animals were able to reproduce again in the second year, but the reduced intensity of apoptosis impaired subsequent removal of damaged cells. In late survivors low antioxidant capacity and apoptotic activity together with a fast accumulation of the age pigment lipofuscin was observed. Rates of oxygen consumption and oxidative stress markers were strongly dependent on somatic growth and reproductive state but not on temperature. Compared to longer-lived bivalves, A. ventricosus seems more susceptible to oxidative stress with higher tissue-specific protein carbonyl levels and fast accumulation of lipofuscin in animals surviving the second spawning. Superoxide dismutase activity and apoptotic cell death intensity were however higher in this short-lived scallop than in longer-lived bivalves. The life strategy of this short-lived and intensely predated scallop supports rapid somatic growth and fitness as well as early maturation at young age at the cost of fast cellular degradation in second year scallops.
Neuroprotective effects of propofol, thiopental, etomidate, and midazolam in fetal rat brain in ischemia-reperfusion model.	The aim of this study was to investigate the neuroprotective effects of propofol, thiopental, etomidate, and midazolam as anesthetic drugs in fetal rat brain in the ischemia-reperfusion (IR) model.
Effects of aqueous extract of Portulaca oleracea L. on oxidative stress and liver, spleen leptin, PAR and FAS mRNA expression in high-fat diet induced mice.	We reported that an aqueous extract of Portulaca oleracea L. inhibited high-fat-diet-induced oxidative injury in a dose-dependent manner. Male kunming mice (5-weeks-old, 24 g) were used in this experiment. After a 4-day adaptation period, animals were randomly divided into four groups (n = 10 in each group); Group 1: animals received normal powdered rodent diet; Group 2: animals received high fat diet; Groups 3 and 4: animals received high fat diet and were fed by gavage to mice once a day with aqueous extract at the doses of 100 and 200 mg/kg body weight, respectively. In mice fed with high-fat diet, blood and liver lipid peroxidation level was significantly increased, whereas antioxidant enzymes activities were markedly decreased compared to normal control mice. Administration of an aqueous extract of P. oleracea L. significantly dose-dependently reduced levels of blood and liver lipid peroxidation and increased the activities of blood and liver antioxidant enzymes activities in high fat mice. Moreover, administration of an aqueous extract of P. oleracea L. significantly dose-dependently increase liver Leptin/-actin (B), and Liver PPAR/-actin, decrease liver, spleen FAS mRNA, p-PERK and p-PERK/PERK protein expression levels. Taken together, these data demonstrate that aqueous extract of P. oleracea L. can markedly alleviate high fat diet-induced oxidative injury by enhancing blood and liver antioxidant enzyme activities, modulating Leptin/-actin (B), and Liver PPAR/-actin, decrease liver, spleen FAS mRNA, p-PERK and p-PERK/PERK protein expression levels in mice.
Prevention of -radiation induced cellular genotoxicity by tempol: protection of hematopoietic system.	Tempol (TPL) under in vitro conditions reduced the extent of gamma radiation induced membrane lipid peroxidation and disappearance of covalently closed circular form of plasmid pBR322. TPL protected cellular DNA from radiation-induced damage in various tissues under ex vivo and in vivo conditions as evidenced by comet assay. TPL also prevented radiation induced micronuclei formation (in peripheral blood leucocytes) and chromosomal aberrations (in bone marrow cells) in whole body irradiated mice. TPL enhanced the rate of repair of cellular DNA (blood leucocytes and bone marrow cells) damage when administered immediately after radiation exposure as revealed from the increased Cellular DNA Repair Index (CRI). The studies thus provided compelling evidence to reveal the effectiveness of TPL to protect hematopoietic system from radiation injury.
Increased oxidative damages of erythrocytes caused by declined blood oxygen saturation]	This paper was to explore the effect of blood oxygen saturation (SO2) on oxidative damages of erythrocytes under the condition of oxidative stress. Keeping SO2 of cultured erythrocytes in vitro at the states of 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9 and 0.98, respectively, we induced oxidative stress by tert-buthylhydroperoxide (BHP, 0.15 mmol/L of final concentration). After incubation, antioxidant capacity was assessed by measuring content of reduced glutathin hormone (GSH) in erythrocytes. Methemoglobin (MetHb) content, lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, TBARS) and denatured globin-chains on the plasma membrane were measured to assess the extent of oxidative damages. The results showed that in the presence of BHP, GSH contents increased from 0.3 to 0.98 groups; MetHb, TBARS and globin-chains levels all dropped with the rise of SO2. In conclusion, antioxidant capacity and oxidative damages of erythrocytes are closely related to SO2, declined SO2 could promote oxidative damages of erythrocytes.
Increased oxidative stress and imbalance in antioxidant enzymes in the brains of alloxan-induced diabetic rats.	Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is associated with pathological changes in the central nervous system (SNC) as well as alterations in oxidative stress. Thus, the main objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of the animal model of diabetes induced by alloxan on memory and oxidative stress. Diabetes was induced in Wistar rats by using a single injection of alloxan (150 mg/kg), and fifteen days after induction, the rats memory was evaluated through the use of the object recognition task. The oxidative stress parameters and the activity of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase (CAT) were measured in the rat brain. The results showed that diabetic rats did not have alterations in their recognition memory. However, the results did show that diabetic rats had increases in the levels of superoxide in the prefrontal cortex, and in thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) production in the prefrontal cortex and in the amygdala in submitochondrial particles. Also, there was an increase in protein oxidation in the hippocampus and striatum, and in TBARS oxidation in the striatum and amygdala. The SOD activity was decreased in diabetic rats in the striatum and amygdala. However, the CAT activity was increased in the hippocampus taken from diabetic rats. In conclusion, our findings illustrate that the animal model of diabetes induced by alloxan did not cause alterations in the animals' recognition memory, but it produced oxidants and an imbalance between SOD and CAT activities, which could contribute to the pathophysiology of diabetes.
Acrylonitrile-induced gastric toxicity in rats: the role of xanthine oxidase.	Acrylonitrile (ACN) is an extensively produced aliphatic nitrile. The gastrointestinal tract is an important target organ for ACN toxicity. The objective of the present study was to investigate the role of xanthine oxidase (XO) in ACN-induced gastric toxicity in rats.
Edaravone ameliorates oxidative stress associated cholinergic dysfunction and limits apoptotic response following focal cerebral ischemia in rat.	Stroke is a life-threatening disease with major cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. The neuronal damage following cerebral ischemia is a serious risk to stroke patients. Oxidative stress and apoptotic damage play an important role in cerebral ischemic pathogenesis and may represent a target for treatment. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that administration of edaravone (Edv) maintains antioxidant status in brain, improves the cholinergic dysfunction and suppresses the progression of apoptosis response in rat. To test this hypothesis, male Wistar rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) of 2 h followed by reperfusion for 22 h. Edv was administered (10 mg/kg bwt) intraperitoneally 30 min before the onset of ischemia and 1 h after reperfusion. After reperfusion, rats were tested for neurobehavioral activities and were sacrificed for the infarct volume, estimation of oxidative damage markers. Edv treatment significantly reduced ischemic lesion volume, improved neurological deficits, contended oxidative loads, and suppressed apoptotic damage. In conclusion, treatment with Edv ameliorated the neurological and histological outcomes with elevated endogenous anti-oxidants status as well as reduced induction of apoptotic responses in MCA occluded rat. We theorized that Edv is among the pharmacological agents that reduce free radicals and its associated cholinergic dysfunction and apoptotic damage and have been found to limit the extent of brain damage following stroke.
Nitroxide pirolin reduces oxidative stress generated by doxorubicin and docetaxel in blood plasma of rats bearing mammary tumor.	Combination of doxorubicin (DOX) and docetaxel (DTX) is clinically effective against many drug-refractory cancers, nevertheless, enhanced side effects, e.g. cardiotoxicity related to oxidative damage of tissue macromolecules is observed. Nitroxides represent an attractive class of synthetic compounds to ameliorate DOX-DTX toxicity in non-targeted tissues due to their antioxidant and iron-oxidizing properties. The aim of the study was to define the ability of 3-carbamoylpyrroline nitroxyl derivative pirolin (PL) to mitigate oxidative damage to blood plasma proteins and lipids induced by DOX-DTX chemotherapy in Sprague-Dawley rats bearing DMBA-induced mammary tumor. Additionally we also evaluated: i) pro-oxidant and antioxidant activity of pirolin administered as a single agent according to different regimens and ii) differences in biomarkers of the oxidative stress between healthy rats and rats with DMBA-induced mammary tumors. The extent of oxidative stress was evaluated on the basis of its foremost biomarkers: thiol and carbonyl groups, lipid peroxidation products (hydroperoxides, TBARS), activity of antioxidant defense enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) and non-enzymatic antioxidant capacity (NEAC). We have found that pirolin alone displayed dual, antioxidant and pro-oxidant activity depending on the regimen of treatment. Daily treatment for 2 weeks increased the amount of thiols, and decreased the protein carbonyl groups. Three administrations of pirolin at 3-week intervals did not influence thiol content but increased hydroperoxides, TBARS and carbonyl groups. Chemotherapy employing DOX-DTX combination caused considerable oxidative stress in the plasma. Significant and dose-dependent oxidative damage to lipids and proteins with concomitant thiol depletion were evident in treated animals. Drugs also increased SOD activity and NEAC. Association of pirolin with DOX-DTX chemotherapy resulted in a partial amelioration of oxidative stress generated by anticancer drugs. This study indicates that a nitroxyl compound pirolin applied as a single agent in vivo can display both antioxidant and pro-oxidant properties but in conjunction with DOX-DTX it is able to protect partially blood plasma against oxidative stress generated by chemotherapy. The outcome, however, seems to be highly dependent on the ratio between the doses of employed anticancer drugs and the nitroxide.
Dimethyl sulfoxide in a 10% concentration has no effect on oxidation stress induced by ovalbumin-sensitization in a guinea-pig model of allergic asthma.	In allergic asthma, activated cells produce various substances including reactive oxygen species (ROS). As heterogenic pathophysiology of asthma results to different response to the therapy, testing novel interventions continues. Because of water-insolubility of some potentially beneficial drugs, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is often used as a solvent. Based on its antioxidant properties, this study evaluated effects of DMSO on mobilization of leukocytes into the lungs, and oxidation processes induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitization in a guinea-pig model of allergic asthma. Guinea-pigs were divided into OVA-sensitized and naive animals. One group of OVA-sensitized animals and one group of naive animals were pretreated with 10% DMSO, the other two groups were given saline. After sacrificing animals, blood samples were taken and total antioxidant status (TAS) in the plasma was determined. Left lungs were saline-lavaged and differential leukocyte count in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) was made. Right lung tissue was homogenized, TAS and products of lipid and protein oxidation were determined in the lung homogenate and in isolated mitochondria. OVA-sensitization increased total number of cells and percentages of eosinophils and neutrophils in BAL fluid; increased lipid and protein oxidation in the lung homogenate and mitochondria, and decreased TAS in the lungs and plasma compared with naive animals. However, no differences were observed in DMSO-instilled animals compared to controls. In conclusion, OVA-sensitization increased mobilization of leukocytes into the lungs and elevated production of ROS, accompanied by decrease in TAS. 10% DMSO had no effect on lipid and protein oxidation in a guinea-pig model of allergic asthma.
Some biochemical parameters of the synovial liquid for estimation of effectiveness of the treatment of the knee joint osteoarthrosis]	The knee joint osteoarthrosis is accompanied by activation of the oxidative stress in the synovial liquid. Specific treatment decreased or even normalized such biochemical parameters of the synovial liquid as the carbonyl groups, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and total protein content. The most demonstrative changes were found for early and late markers of the oxidative modification of proteins. These parameters may be used in laboratory diagnostics of the depth of the degenerative-dystrophic process in the knee joint and for the estimation of the effectiveness of the treatment.
Antioxidant properties of -seleno amines against lipid peroxidation in rat brain and liver.	-Seleno amines were screened for in vitro antioxidant activity. The compounds (C1-C4) were tested against lipid peroxidation induced by iron and sodium nitroprusside in rat brain and liver homogenates. The compounds showed inhibition against thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) induced by different pro-oxidants (10M FeSO(4) and 5M sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in rat brain and liver homogenates. The compounds exhibited strong antioxidant activity in 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical and phosphomolybdenum assays. The IC(50) values revealed that the -seleno amines in which the amino group was protected with protecting groups tert-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc) and Tosyl (Ts) groups showed better antioxidant profiles compared to the free monoselenides. The total antioxidant activity of C1, C2, C3 and C4 were found to be 85.211.5, 1147.9, 1388.5, 125.815.2M/ml of ascorbic acid respectively. Therefore, these compounds may be used as synthetic antioxidants.
Effects of 4,4'-dichloro-diphenyl diselenide (ClPhSe)2 on toxicity induced by mercuric chloride in mice: a comparative study with diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2.	The effects of 4,4'-dichloro-diphenyl diselenide (ClPhSe)(2) on the toxicity induced by mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) were investigated and compared with diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)(2). Mice received HgCl(2) for three days and, on the third day, received (PhSe)(2) or (ClPhSe)(2). The results verified that the administration of (ClPhSe)(2) in mice exposed to HgCl(2) increased renal -aminolevulinate dehydratase (-ALA-D), Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activities and non-protein thiol (NPSH) levels and also decreased thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and ascorbic acid levels, when compared to mice exposed to HgCl(2)+(PhSe)(2). Plasma and urinary protein, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels and histological parameters were also ameliorated in mice exposed to HgCl(2)+(ClPhSe)(2). In addition, the hepatic damage in mice exposed to HgCl(2)+(PhSe)(2) was reduced in animals exposed to (ClPhSe)(2). To sum up, the introduction of a functional group (chloro) in the aromatic ring of diaryl diselenide reduced the toxicity of this compound in liver and kidney of mice exposed to HgCl(2).
Cadmium-induced oxidative stress and histological damage in the myocardium. Effects of a soy-based diet.	Cd exposure has been associated to an augmented risk for cardiovascular disease. We investigated the effects of 15 and 100 ppm of Cd on redox status as well as histological changes in the rat heart and the putative protective effect of a soy-based diet. Male Wistar rats were separated into 6 groups and treated during 60 days as follows: groups (1), (2) and (3) were fed a casein-based diet; groups (4), (5) and (6), a soy-based diet; (1) and (4) were given tap water; (2) and (5) tap water containing 15 ppm of Cd; and (3) and (6) tap water containing 100 ppm of Cd. Serum lipid peroxides increased and PON-1 activity decreased in group (3). Lipoperoxidation also increased in the heart of all intoxicated groups; however protein oxidation only augmented in (3) and reduced glutathione levels diminished in (2) and (3). Catalase activity increased in groups (3) and (6) while superoxide dismutase activity increased only in (6). Glutathione peroxidase activity decreased in groups (3) and (6). Nrf2 expression was higher in groups (3) and (6), and MTI expression augmented in (3). Histological examination of the heart tissue showed the development of hypertrophic and fusion of cardiomyocytes along with foci of myocardial fiber necrosis. The transmission electron microscopy analysis showed profound ultra-structural damages. No protection against tissue degeneration was observed in animals fed the soy-based diet. Our findings indicate that even though the intake of a soy-based diet is capable of ameliorating Cd induced oxidative stress, it failed in preventing cardiac damage.
Oxidative stress and nitrosative stress are involved in different stages of proteolytic pulmonary emphysema.	Our aim was to investigate the role of oxidative stress in elastase-induced pulmonary emphysema. C57BL/6 mice were subjected to pancreatic porcine elastase (PPE) instillation (0.05 or 0.5 U per mouse, i.t.) to induce pulmonary emphysema. Lungs were collected on days 7, 14, and 21 after PPE instillation. The control group was sham injected. Also, mice treated with 1% aminoguanidine (AMG) and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) knockout mice received 0.5 U PPE (i.t.), and lungs were analyzed 21 days after. We performed bronchoalveolar lavage, biochemical analyses of oxidative stress, and lung stereology and morphometry assays. Emphysema was observed histologically at 21 days after 0.5 U PPE treatment; tissues from these mice exhibited increased alveolar linear intercept and air-space volume density in comparison with the control group. TNF- was elevated at 7 and 14 days after 0.5 U PPE treatment, concomitant with a reduction in the IL-10 levels at the same time points. Myeloperoxidase was elevated in all groups treated with 0.5 U PPE. Oxidative stress was observed during early stages of emphysema, with increased nitrite levels and malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase activity at 7 days after 0.5 U PPE treatment. Glutathione peroxidase activity was increased in all groups treated with 0.5 U PPE. The emphysema was attenuated when iNOS was inhibited using 1% AMG and in iNOS knockout mice. Furthermore, proteolytic stimulation by PPE enhanced the expression of nitrotyrosine and iNOS, whereas the PPE+AMG group showed low expression of iNOS and nitrotyrosine. PPE stimulus also induced endothelial (e) NOS expression, whereas AMG reduced eNOS. Our results suggest that the oxidative and nitrosative stress pathways are triggered by nitric oxide production via iNOS expression in pulmonary emphysema.
Contribution of reactive oxygen species to UV-B-induced damage in bacteria.	The present work aimed to identify the reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced during UV-B exposure and their biochemical targets, in a set of bacterial isolates displaying different UV susceptibilities. For that, specific exogenous ROS scavengers (catalase/CAT, superoxide dismutase/SOD, sodium azide and mannitol) were used. Biological effects were assessed from total bacterial number, colony counts and heterotrophic activity (glucose uptake and respiration). DNA strand breakage, ROS generation, oxidative damage to proteins and lipids were used as markers of oxidative stress. Sodium azide conferred a statistically significant protection in terms of lipid oxidation and cell survival, suggesting that singlet oxygen might play an important role in UV-B induced cell inactivation. Mannitol exerted a significant protection against DNA strand breakage and protein carbonylation, assigning hydroxyl radicals to DNA and protein damage. The addition of exogenous CAT and SOD significantly protected the capacity for glucose uptake and respiration, suggesting that superoxide and H(2)O(2) are involved in the impairment of activity during UV-B exposure. The observation that amendment with ROS scavengers can sometimes also exert a pro-oxidant effect suggests that the intracellular oxidant status of the cell ultimately determines the efficiency of antioxidant defenses.
Age-related changes in the reliability of antioxidant enzyme defense in monkeys with different types of adaptive behavior.	We have investigated age-related changes in the reliability of glutathione-related antioxidant enzyme defense in monkeys that differ in adaptive behavior. Activities of gluthatione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and gluthatione-S-transferase (GST) and also lipid peroxidation products (TBARS) under basal conditions and under acute psycho-emotional stress were evaluated in erythrocytes of young (6-8 years) and old (20-27 years) female rhesus monkeys with depression-like and standard (control) behavior. We have found that young animals with depression-like behavior, in comparison with young monkeys of standard behavior, demonstrated higher activity of GR in basal conditions and no significant changes in response to acute immobilization stress. With aging the activity of GR increased in monkeys with standard behavior in basal conditions but retained the ability to increase under acute stress. At the same time during aging in monkeys with depression-like behavior GR activity did not undergo significant changes in basal conditions and did not change in response to acute stress. Moreover, old animals with depression-like behavior demonstrated reduced activity of GSH-Px. More pronounced disturbances in GR and GSH-Px activities in animals with depression-like behavior evidence a more marked decrease in the reliability of antioxidant enzyme defense of cells and lead to activation of lipid peroxidation that may be considered as an important factor of aging. Thus, age-related dysfunctions of the antioxidant enzyme system correlate with the type of adaptive behavior characteristic of animals. 
Chemopreventive efficacy of Phyllanthus emblica L. (amla) fruit extract on 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene induced oral carcinogenesis--a dose-response study.	Phyllanthus emblica L. (Euphorbiaceae), a novel natural fruit has long been used as a home remedy by the medical practitioners. In this report, we investigated the chemopreventive effect of P. emblica fruit methanolic extract (PFMet) on oxidant-antioxidant status in hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis. Buccal pouch carcinoma was induced in hamsters by painting with DMBA (0.5% in mineral oil) on the left buccal pouch three times a week for 14 weeks. By means of HPLC analysis, ascorbic acid (24.13%), gallic acid (10.45%), ellagic acid (1.74%) and quercetin (0.009%) were identified and quantified in the PFMet. The results showed that depleted activities of SOD, CAT and TBARS level and significant elevation were observed in the levels of GSH, vitamin E and activity of GPx in DMBA group of buccal pouch. The level of TBARS was significantly enhanced and the activities of enzymatic (SOD, CAT and GPx) and non-enzymatic (vitamin E, vitamin C and GSH) antioxidants were diminished significantly in plasma of tumor bearing animals. The effects were dose dependent and the above noted parameters were renovated to near normal after supplementation with different doses of PFMet (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg BW). The data obtained in this study clearly indicate that PFMet at a dose of 200mg/kg BW possesses optimum chemopreventive effect against DMBA-induced buccal pouch carcinogenesis.
Apocynin improves erectile function in diabetic rats through regulation of NADPH oxidase expression.	Diabetes is a risk factor for erectile dysfunction (ED). The proposed mechanisms responsible for diabetic ED are associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, overactivity of RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, as seen in experimental models of diabetic rats.
Biological activities of Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf extracts and isolation of the active compounds.	Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf (Parmeliaceae) is a common epiphytic lichen in the conifer-hardwood forest of Anatolia. This species is used in traditional medicine in Turkey as a treatment for wounds, eczema and hemorrhoids.
Protective effect of dendrodoine analog, an aminothiazole derivative against X-radiation induced hepatocellular damage in mice.	This study evaluated the radioprotective effect of dendrodoine analog (DA) against radiation-induced damage in the liver of mice. The study was divided into two phases; in the first phase, the effective concentration of DA was fixed by performing a survival study. In the second phase, the fixed effective concentration of DA was orally administered to mice to evaluate its radioprotective efficacy by performing various assays. The results indicated that the radiation-induced decrease in the activities of antioxidant enzymes, increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and comet parameters were altered by pre-administration with the effective concentration of DA which restored the antioxidant status to near normal and decreased the level of the TBARS and comet parameters. The histopathological examinations further confirmed the hepatoprotective effect of DA in mice. Thus, the current study showed DA to be an effective radioprotector against radiation induced damage in the liver of mice.
Potential antitumour and pro-oxidative effects of (E)-methyl 2-(7-chloroquinolin-4-ylthio)-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl) acrylate (QNACR).	Characterization of the pro-oxidant activity of QNACR.
Pollution-induced oxidative stress and biochemical parameter alterations in the blood of white stork nestlings Ciconia ciconia from regions with different degrees of contamination in Poland.	This paper aimed to illustrate the most reliable biomarkers to detect pollution-related oxidative stress in white stork nestlings in polluted (from copper manufacture), suburban and Odra meadows (as a control area) areas . Lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances content, TBARS) and oxidative modified protein levels (stable 2,4-dinitrophenyl hydrazine derivates of the carbonyl groups) were used as indicators of the oxidative stress, as well as other selected biochemical parameters, which are used as diagnostic tools in avian medicine (alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, lactate dehydrogenase activities, lactate and pyruvate concentrations). It was found that the blood of chicks from the polluted area was more susceptible to oxidative stress due to lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation, manifested as protein carbonyls, the elevation of alanine and aspartate aminotransferases activities, and lactate and pyruvate concentrations than those of chicks from suburban and Odra meadows areas. Direct connections between lactate and pyruvate concentrations and lipid peroxidation (TBARS level), as well as between derivates of carbonyl oxidation levels in the blood of chicks from the polluted area were detected. Lactate dehydrogenase activity was slightly inhibited in the blood of chicks from the polluted environment, perhaps because of increased lactate concentration in the blood of chicks from polluted areas. It can be suggested that alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, lactate dehydrogenase activities, lactate and pyruvate concentrations can be used as indicators of oxidative stress. The activities of these enzymes were perhaps not directly related to environmental pollution, but more likely to some secondary pollution-related changes in the nestlings' conditions.
Early loss of innervation of cornea epithelium in streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats: improvement with ilepatril treatment.	Cornea confocal microscopy is emerging as a clinical tool to evaluate the development and progression of diabetic neuropathy. The purpose of these studies was to characterize the early changes in corneal sensitivity and innervation in a rat model of type 1 diabetes in relation to standard peripheral neuropathy endpoints and to assess the effect of Ilepatril, a vasopeptidase inhibitor which blocks angiotensin converting enzyme and neutral endopeptidase, on these endpoints.
Relationship between intensity of night shift work and antioxidant status in blood of nurses.	Light-at-night exposure can disrupt the human circadian rhythm via clock gene expressions. The circadian rhythm influences antioxidant enzymes' activity and cellular mRNA levels of these enzymes. The employees working based on a shift system adjust to the changes occurring both on the cell level and on the level of the whole organism. Therefore, a question should be answered whether shift work disturbs oxidant-antioxidant balance and/or generates oxidative stress.
Palm tocotrienol-rich fraction reduced plasma homocysteine and heart oxidative stress in rats fed with a high-methionine diet.	Oxidative stress contributes to cardiovascular diseases. We aimed to study the effects of palm tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) on plasma homocysteine and cardiac oxidative stress in rats fed with a high-methionine diet. Forty-two male Wistar rats were divided into six groups. The first group was the control. Groups 2-6 were fed 1% methionine diet for 10 weeks. From week 6 onward, folate (8 mg/kg diet) or palm TRF (30, 60 and 150 mg/kg diet) was added into the diet of groups 3, 4, 5 and 6. The rats were then killed. Palm TRF at 150 mg/kg and folate supplementation prevented the increase in plasma total homocysteine (4.14  0.33 and 4.30  0.26 vs 5.49  0.25 mmol/L, p < 0.05) induced by a high-methionine diet. The increased heart thiobarbituric acid reactive substance in rats fed with high-methionine diet was also prevented by the supplementations of palm TRF (60 and 150 mg/kg) and folate. The high-methionine group had a lower glutathione peroxidase activity (49  3 vs 69  4 pmol/mg protein/min) than the control group. This reduction was reversed by palm TRF at 60 and 150 mg/kg diet (p < 0.05), but not by folate. Catalase and superoxide dismutase activities were unaffected by both methionine and vitamin supplementations. In conclusion, palm TRF was comparable to folate in reducing high-methionine diet-induced hyperhomocysteinemia and oxidative stress in the rats' hearts. However, palm TRF was more effective than folate in preserving the heart glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity.
Glutamine treatment attenuates endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis in TNBS-induced colitis.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and apoptotic cell death play an important role in the pathogenesis and perpetuation of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We aimed to explore the potential of glutamine to reduce ER stress and apoptosis in a rat model of experimental IBD. Colitis was induced in male Wistar rats by intracolonic administration of 30 mg of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS). Glutamine (25 mg/dL) was given by rectal route daily for 2 d or 7 d. Both oxidative stress (TBARS concentration and oxidised/reduced glutathione ratio) and ER stress markers (CHOP, BiP, calpain-1 and caspase-12 expression) increased significantly within 48 h of TNBS instillation, and glutamine attenuated the extent of the changes. Glutamine also inhibited the significant increases of ATF6, ATF4 and spliced XBP-1 mRNA levels induced by TNBS instillation. TNBS-colitis resulted in a significant increase in p53 and cytochrome c expression, and a reduced Bcl-xL expression and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. These effects were significantly inhibited by glutamine. Treatment with the amino acid also resulted in significant decreases of caspase-9, caspase-8 and caspase-3 activities. Double immunofluorescence staining showed co-localization of CHOP and cleaved caspase-3 in colon sections. Phospho-JNK and PARP-1 expression was also significantly higher in TNBS-treated rats, and treatment with glutamine significantly decreased JNK phosphorylation and PARP-1 proteolysis. To directly address the effect of glutamine on ER stress and apoptosis in epithelial cells, the ER stress inducers brefeldin A and tunicamycin were added to Caco-2 cells that were treated with glutamine (5 mM and 10 mM). The significant enhancement in PERK, ATF6 phosphorylated IRE1, BiP and cleaved caspase-3 expression induced by brefeldin A and tunicamycin was partly prevented by glutamine. Data obtained indicated that modulation of ER stress signalling and anti-apoptotic effects contribute to protection by glutamine against damage in TNBS-induced colitis.
Blueberry extracts protect testis from hypobaric hypoxia induced oxidative stress in rats.	Exposure to hypobaric hypoxia causes oxidative damage to male rat reproductive function. The aim of this study was to evaluate the protective effect of a blueberry extract (BB-4) in testis of rats exposed to hypobaric hypoxia. Morphometric analysis, cellular DNA fragmentation, glutathione reductase (GR), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities were evaluated. Our results showed that supplementation of BB-4 reduced lipid peroxidation, decreased apoptosis, and increased GR and SOD activities in rat testis under hypobaric hypoxia conditions (P < 0.05). Therefore, this study demonstrates that blueberry extract significantly reduced the harmful effects of oxidative stress caused by hypobaric hypoxia in rat testis by affecting glutathione reductase and superoxide dismutase activities.
Thyroidal effects of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in rats of different selenium status.	This study was designed to investigate the effects of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) on thyroid hormone levels and oxidant/antioxidant parameters in the rat and to evaluate the effects of selenium status. Selenium deficiency was produced by feeding 3-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats with <0.05 mg selenium/kg body weight for 5 weeks, and the supplementation group received a diet of 1 mg selenium/kg body weight. DEHP-treated groups received the compound at a dose of 1000 mg/kg by gavage during the last 10 days of the feeding period. Levels of thyroid hormone levels as well as selenoenzyme (glutathione peroxidase 1, thioredoxin reductase), catalase, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) were measured. Total thyroxine (TT4) levels decreased significantly with DEHP exposure (~25%), whereas TT3 level was not altered. The TT4 lowering effect of DEHP exposure was not affected by selenium deficiency but was observed when animals exposed to DEHP received a selenium supplement. DEHP was found to alter the antioxidant status and induce oxidative stress in rat thyroid by increasing SOD activity (~30%) and TBARS levels (~35%). The effects of DEHP were much more pronounced in selenium-deficient rats, as evidenced by significant increases in SOD activity (~65%) and TBARS levels (~55%) compared with the control levels. Thus, these results show the thyroid-disrupting effect of DEHP in rats and protection by selenium.
Ischemic brain imaging using fluorescent gold nanoprobes sensitive to reactive oxygen species.	Fluorescein-labeled hyaluronic acids (HA) were immobilized on gold nanoparticles for reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection. The efficacy of HA immobilized gold nanoparticles (HHAuNPs) was evaluated in a stroke animal model. The stroke rat model was produced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), which induced transient ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) in the brain. The increase of ROS in the I/R brain was confirmed by TBARS assay with the brain extracts. For brain imaging, HHAuNPs were injected into the rat brain 1 h before transient MCAO. Five hours after the injection, the rats were sacrificed and the brains were subjected to imaging analysis. The results showed that stronger signals were detected in the I/R brains than in the normal brains. To identify the time window for effective detection of ROS, HHAuNPs were injected into the post-ischemic rat brains at various time points. The results showed that ROS level reached a maximum at 24 h after the transient MCAO. Also, a live imaging study was performed with HHAuNPs in the normal and I/R animals. The results confirmed that ROS level increased in the I/R animal group with time, while the signal was decreased in the normal animal group. Together, our results suggest that HHAuNPs may be useful to monitor ROS level in the ischemic brain and to identify the infarct areas in ischemic brains for the treatment of stroke.
Impact through time of different sized titanium dioxide particles on biochemical and histopathological parameters.	Due to corrosion, a titanium implant surface can be a potential source for the release of micro (MPs) and nano-sized particles (NPs) into the biological environment. This work sought to evaluate the biokinetics of different sized titanium dioxide particles (TiO2 ) and their potential to cause cell damage. Wistar rats were intraperitoneally injected with 150 nm, 10 nm, or 5nm TiO2 particles. The presence of TiO2 particles was evaluated in histologic sections of the liver, lung, and kidney and in blood cells at 3 and 12 months. Ultrastructural analysis of liver and lung tissue was performed by TEM, deposit concentration in tissues was determined spectroscopically, and oxidative metabolism was assessed by determining oxidative membrane damage, generation of superoxide anion (O2(-)), and enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants. TiO2 particles were observed inside mononuclear blood cells and in organ parenchyma at 3 and 12 months. TiO2 deposits were consistently larger in liver than in lung tissue. Alveolar macrophage O2(-) generation and average particle size correlated negatively (p < 0.05). NPs were more reactive and biopersistent in lung tissue than MPs. Antioxidant activity, particularly in the case of 5 nm particles, failed to compensate for membrane damage in liver cells; the damage was consistent with histological evidence of necrosis.
PPAR activation as a regulator of lipid metabolism, nitric oxide production and lipid peroxidation in the placenta from type 2 diabetic patients.	Peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand activated transcription factors with crucial functions in lipid homeostasis, anti-inflammatory processes and placental development. Maternal diabetes induces a pro-inflammatory environment and alters placental development. We investigated whether PPARs regulate lipid metabolism and nitric oxide (NO) production in placental explants from healthy and type 2 diabetic (DM2) patients. We found decreased PPAR and PPAR concentrations, no changes in PPAR concentrations, and increased lipids, lipoperoxides and NO production in placentas from DM2 patients. PPAR agonists reduced placental concentrations of triglycerides and both PPAR and PPAR agonists reduced concentrations of phospholipids, cholesteryl esters and cholesterol. PPAR agonists increased lipid concentrations in placentas from DM2 patients and more markedly in placentas from healthy patients. Endogenous ligands for the three PPAR isotypes reduced NO production and lipoperoxidation in placentas from DM2 patients. We conclude that PPARs play a role in placental NO and lipid homeostasis and can regulate NO production, lipid concentrations and lipoperoxidation in placentas from DM2 patients.
Oral administration of hesperidin, a citrus flavonone, in rats counteracts the oxidative stress, the inflammatory cytokine production, and the hepatotoxicity induced by the ingestion of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).	The objective of the current study was to investigate the protective effects of hesperidin against oxidative stress, altered cytokines levels and histological changes in rats induced by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Rats were divided randomly into four equal groups (Control, TCDD, hesperidin and TCDD+hesperidin). TCDD and hesperidin were given by gavage, dissolved in corn oil at doses of 2/kg/week and 50 mg/kg/day respectively. The blood and tissue samples were taken from all rats on the 60(th) day, to be analyzed for the determination of oxidative stress, histological changes and cytokine levels. The results indicated that hesperidin prevented oxidative damage caused by TCDD via decrease lipid peroxidation and increased antioxidant defense systems. It also reversed the histological damage induced by TCDD. Although, TCDD led to a significant increase in TNF- and IL-1 levels, hesperidin treatment was able to normalize these values in rats. In conclusion, it was shown that TCDD caused adverse effects as regards cytokine levels, histological alterations and oxidative stress in rats. However, hesperidin treatment mitigated these toxic effects. These results suggest that hesperidin could play a protective role against TCDD toxicity. 
Inhibitory effect of -lipoic acid on thioacetamide-induced tumor promotion through suppression of inflammatory cell responses in a two-stage hepatocarcinogenesis model in rats.	To investigate the protective effect of -lipoic acid (a-LA) on the hepatocarcinogenic process promoted by thioacetamide (TAA), we used a two-stage liver carcinogenesis model in N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated and TAA-promoted rats. We examined the modifying effect of co-administered a-LA on the liver tissue environment surrounding preneoplastic hepatocellular lesions, with particular focus on hepatic macrophages and the mechanism behind the decrease in apoptosis of cells surrounding preneoplastic hepatocellular lesions during the early stages of hepatocellular tumor promotion. TAA increased the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)(+) liver cell foci and the numbers of proliferating and apoptotic cells in the liver. Co-administration with a-LA suppressed these effects. TAA also increased the numbers of ED2(+), cyclooxygenase-2(+), and heme oxygenase-1(+) hepatic macrophages as well as the number of CD3(+) lymphocytes. These effects were also suppressed by a-LA. Transcript levels of some inflammation-related genes were upregulated by TAA and downregulated by a-LA in real-time RT-PCR analysis. Outside the GST-P(+) foci, a-LA reduced the numbers of apoptotic cells, active caspase-8(+) cells and death receptor (DR)-5(+) cells. These results suggest that hepatic macrophages producing proinflammatory factors may be activated in TAA-induced tumor promotion. a-LA may suppress tumor-promoting activity by suppressing the activation of these macrophages and the subsequent inflammatory responses. Furthermore, a-LA may suppress tumor-promoting activity by suppressing the DR5-mediated extrinsic pathway of apoptosis and the subsequent regeneration of liver cells outside GST-P(+) foci. 
Expectorant and antioxidant activities of purified fumarprotocetraric acid from Cladonia verticillaris lichen in mice.	The lichen Cladonia verticillaris produces bioactive secondary metabolites, such as fumarprotocetraric (FUM) and protocetraric acids. Species of the genus Cladonia demonstrate anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic activities and have been used in folk medicine to treat respiratory diseases (throat irritation, cough, asthma and tuberculosis). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the expectorant and mucolytic activities of fumarprotocetraric acid in albino Swiss mice. FUM was extracted and purified from an acetone extract of C.verticillaris. The phenol red quantification method was used on the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid following the administration of FUM (25, 50 or 100mg/kg orally or intraduodenally and 12.5, 25 or 50mg/kg, intraperitoneally) for the evaluation of expectorant activity. Control groups received either saline solution (7.5mL/kg) or ambroxol (1mg/kg) through the same administration routes. Antioxidant activity was evaluated using the thiobarbituric acid reactive species assay in mouse lung tissue treated with the FUM at 25, 50 or 100mg/kg orally, followed by a lipopolysaccharide solution at 1mg/kg intrapleurally. The same protocol was used for the control groups using either saline solution (7.5mL/kg, orally) or N-acetylcysteine (20mg/kg, orally).
Biochanin-A ameliorates behavioural and neurochemical derangements in cognitive-deficit mice for the betterment of Alzheimer's disease.	Biochanin-A (BCA), a potent phytoconstituent, has been previously used as an antitumour, a dopaminergic neuron protective agent, an antioxidant, an anticholinergic and on other pharmacological activities including neuroprotection. The present study was aimed to evaluate the behavioural and neurochemical evidence of BCA in cognitive-deficit mice in scopolamine challenged and natural aged-induced amnesia models in young and aged mice, respectively. BCA has exhibited decrease in the transfer latency and increase in step through latency significantly (p < 0.001) in scopolamine-treated and natural aged mice of exteroceptive behavioural models such as elevated plus maze and passive shock avoidance paradigm, respectively. A decrease in acetylcholinesterase activity of whole brain was seen in scopolamine and aged mice with standard piracetam (Pira; p < 0.001) and BCA in dose-dependent manner. The antioxidant property of BCA was proven by increase in GSH (p < 0.01) and decrease in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances level significantly in a scopolamine-challenged and aged mice. The scopolamine-treated mice exhibited significant (p < 0.01) increase in the content of noradrenalin and dopamine, which is a sign of dementia, and these excess increased neurotransmitters were reversed by BCA 40 mg kg(-1) (p < 0.05), BCA 20 mg kg(-1) (p > 0.05), BCA 10 mg kg(-1) (p < 0.05) and standard Pira (p < 0.05) when compared with scopolamine group. Furthermore, in histopathology of hippocampus, the Pira and BCA-treated mice were protected from the formation of pyknotic neurons, increases in the viable cells count and decreases in the number of degenerative cells compared with the scopolamine group. Hence, BCA could be potential enough for the betterment of Alzheimer's disease. 
(13)--D-Glucan reduces the damages caused by reactive oxygen species induced in human platelets by lipopolysaccharides.	LPS (lipopolysaccharide) induces platelet activation and is a well-known fundamental agent of septic shock and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Biological activity of (13)--D-glucan is related due to its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antitumor properties. We focus our attention on the (13)--D-glucan (antiplatelet) properties. The main purpose of our study was to evaluate the influence of (13)--D-glucan from Saccharomyces cerevisiae on destructive activity of LPS (from Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) on human blood platelets. We assess biochemically in vitro if (13)--D-glucan might combat the oxidative stress caused by LPS stroke associated with nitrative and oxidative damages of human platelet biomolecules. We also make an attempt by in silico molecular docking to determine the interactions between the molecules of (13)--D-glucan and LPS. Our conclusion is that protective mechanism of (13)--D-glucan against LPS action on blood platelets is due to as well: its antioxidant properties, as to its interaction with LPS-binding region of TLR4-MD-2 complex.
Protection of radiation-induced damage to the hematopoietic system, small intestine and salivary glands in rats by JNJ7777120 compound, a histamine H4 ligand.	Based on previous data on the histamine radioprotective effect on highly radiosensitive tissues, in the present work we aimed at investigating the radioprotective potential of the H4R ligand, JNJ7777120, on ionizing radiation-induced injury and genotoxic damage in small intestine, salivary glands and hematopoietic tissue. For that purpose, rats were divided into 4 groups. JNJ7777120 and JNJ7777120-irradiated groups received a daily subcutaneous JNJ7777120 injection (10 mg/kg) starting 24 h before irradiation. Irradiated groups received a single dose of 5 Gy on whole-body using Cesium-137 source and were sacrificed 3 or 30 days after irradiation. Tissues were removed, fixed, stained with hematoxylin and eosin or PAS staining and histological characteristics were evaluated. Proliferative and apoptotic markers were studied by immunohistochemistry, while micronucleus assay was performed to evaluate DNA damage. Submandibular gland (SMG) function was evaluated by methacholine-induced salivation. Results indicate that JNJ7777120 treatment diminished mucosal atrophy and preserved villi and the number of crypts after radiation exposure (2408 vs. 16510, P<0.01). This effect was associated to a reduced apoptosis and DNA damage in intestinal crypts. JNJ7777120 reduced radiation-induced aplasia, preserving medullar components and reducing formation of micronucleus and also it accelerated bone marrow repopulation. Furthermore, it reduced micronucleus frequency in peripheral blood (278 vs. 14922, in 1,000 erythrocytes, P<0.01). JNJ7777120 completely reversed radiation-induced reduced salivation, conserving glandular mass with normal histological appearance and reducing apoptosis and atrophy of SMG. JNJ7777120 exhibits radioprotective effects against radiation-induced cytotoxic and genotoxic damages in small intestine, SMG and hematopoietic tissues and, thus, could be of clinical value for patients undergoing radiotherapy. 
Effect of Aegle marmelos (L.) Correa on alloxan induced early stage diabetic nephropathy in rats.	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) has a complex pathogenesis and poor prognosis due to the lack of therapeutic interventions. The present study investigates the effect of A. marmelos leaf extract (AME) on early alloxan induced DN. The treatment with AME was found to significantly decrease the fasting blood sugar, total cholesterol, blood urea, creatinine and renal TBARS and increased the levels of renal reduced glutathione and catalase significantly as compared to the diabetic control group. The maximum dose-dependent protection was observed at a dose of 200 mg kg(-1). Histological examination revealed marked reversal of the morphological derangements with AME treatment as indicated by a decrease in glomerular expansion, tubular dilatation and inflammatory cells. The present results conclude that AME treatment has a significant ameliorative effect on early changes induced in the kidneys by alloxan and improves the outcome of DN.
Defensive effect of lansoprazole in dementia of AD type in mice exposed to streptozotocin and cholesterol enriched diet.	The present study investigates the potential of lansoprazole (a proton pump inhibitor and agonist of liver x receptors) in experimental dementia of AD type. Streptozotocin [STZ, 3 mg/kg, injected intracerebroventricular (i.c.v), and high fat diet (HFD, administered for 90 days)] were used to induce dementia in separate groups of Swiss mice. Morris water maze (MWM) test was performed to assess learning and memory of the animals. A battery of biochemical and histopathological studies were also performed. Extent of oxidative stress was measured by estimating the levels of brain reduced glutathione (GSH) and thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS). Brain acetylcholinestrase (AChE) activity and serum cholesterol levels were also estimated. The brain level of myeloperoxidase (MPO) was measured as a marker of inflammation. STZ and HFD produced a marked decline in MWM performance of the animals, reflecting impairment of learning and memory. STZ/HFD treated mice exhibited a marked accentuation of AChE activity, TBARS and MPO levels along with a fall in GSH levels. Further, the stained micrographs of STZ/HFD treated mice indicated pathological changes, severe neutrophilic infiltration and amyloid deposition. Lansoprazole treatment significantly attenuated STZ and HFD -induced memory deficits, biochemical and histopathological alterations. It also prevented HFD-induced rise in the cholesterol level. Therefore, the findings demonstrate potential of lansoprazole in memory dysfunctions which may probably be attributed to its anti-cholinesterase, anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. Moreover, both cholesterol-dependent as well as cholesterol-independent effects of lansoprazole appear to play a role. In addition study indicates the role of liver x receptors in dementia. 
Effect of Tai Chi versus walking on oxidative stress in Mexican older adults.	It has recently been reported that the practice of Tai Chi reduces oxidative stress (OxS), but it is not clear whether walking or Tai Chi produces a greater antioxidant effect. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the practice of Tai Chi and walking on markers for OxS. We carried out a quasi-experimental study with 106 older adults between 60 and 74 years of age who were clinically healthy and divided into the following groups: (i) control group (n = 23), (ii) walking group (n = 43), and (iii) Tai Chi group (n = 31). We measured the levels of lipoperoxides (LPO), antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and total antioxidant status (TAS) pre- and post-intervention in all subjects. The data were subjected to a covariant analysis. We found lower levels of LPO in the Tai Chi group compared with the walking group (Tai Chi, 0.261  0.02; walking, 0.331  0.02; control, 0.304  0.023mol/L; P = 0.05). Likewise, we observed significantly higher SOD activity and lower OxS-score in the Tai Chi group (P < 0.05). Our findings suggest that the practice of Tai Chi produces a more effective antioxidant effect than walking.
Effects of diphenyl diselenide and diphenyl ditellurite on chicken embryo development.	Studies of our group has demonstrated that (PhSe)2 plays some pharmacologic activities. In addition, it is possible that this compound would be an alternative source of organic selenium in animal foods. However, previous works showed that diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 and diphenyl ditelluride (PhTe)2 are toxic for mammals, but their undesirable effects were never tested in avian models. Then, the present study was carried to examine the possible teratogenic effects of (PhSe)2 and (PhTe)2 on chicken embryo development. The eggs were injected with (PhSe)2 at 0, 1 and 10 nmol or with (PhTe)2 at 4 nmol. The control was injected with 10 l of soya bean oil (vehicle). In order to determine the possible toxic effect of these chemicals, we measure the embryo dimensions, the encephalon, heart and liver weight, thiobarturic acid reactive species (TBARS) level and the -aminonevulinate dehydratase (ALA-D) activity. (PhSe)2 and (PhTe)2 did not affect the embryo dimensions. Treatment with (PhSe)2 at 10 nmol per egg caused a increase on TBARS level and on ALA-D activity of the liver tissue, whereas (PhTe)2 decreased encephalon weight, had a tendency to increase to increase TBARS level but did not affect ALA-D activity. Taken together, these results indicate that (PhSe)2 and (PhTe)2 are slightly toxic for chicken embryos. Furthermore, (PhTe)2 caused a decrease in encephalon, which indicates its neurotoxicity. Finally, these results indicate that (PhTe)2 seems not be promissory for therapeutic applications, whereas (PhSe)2 could be of clinical and/or nutritional concern, which will be target for further researches.
Methionine and methionine sulfoxide alter parameters of oxidative stress in the liver of young rats: in vitro and in vivo studies.	It has been shown that elevation of plasma methionine (Met) and its metabolites may occur in several genetic abnormalities. In this study we investigated the in vitro and in vivo effects of the Met and methionine sulfoxide (MetO) on oxidative stress parameters in the liver of rats. For in vitro studies, liver homogenates were incubated with Met, MetO, and Mix (Met+MetO). For in vivo studies, the animals were divided into groups: saline, Met 0.4g/kg, MetO 0.1g/kg, and Met 0.4g/kg+MetO 0.1g/kg. The animals were euthanized 1 and 3h after injection. In vitro results showed that Met 1 and 2mM and Mix increased catalase (CAT) activity. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) was enhanced by Met 1 and 2mM, MetO 0.5mM, and Mix. Dichlorofluorescein oxidation was increased by Met 1mM and Mix. In vivo results showed that Met, MetO, and Mix decreased TBARS levels at 1h. Total thiol content decreased 1h after and increased 3h after MetO and Met plus MetO administrations. Carbonyl content was enhanced by Met and was reduced by MetO 1h after administration. Met, MetO and Met plus MetO decreased CAT activity 1 and 3h after administration. Furthermore, only MetO increased SOD activity. In addition, Met, MetO, and Mix decreased dichlorofluorescein oxidation at 1 and 3h. Our data indicate that Met/MetO in vivo and in vitro modify liver homeostasis by altering the redox cellular state. However, the hepatic changes caused by these compounds suggest a short-time adaptation of this tissue. 
Cortical spreading depression induces oxidative stress in the trigeminal nociceptive system.	Indirect evidence suggests the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in migraine pathophysiology. In the current study we measured lipid peroxidation product in the rat cortex, trigeminal ganglia and meninges after the induction of cortical spreading depression (CSD), a phenomenon known to be associated with migraine aura, and tested nociceptive firing triggered by ROS in trigeminal nerves ex vivo. Application of KCl to dura mater in anesthetized rats induced several waves of CSD recorded by an extracellular electrode in the cortex. Following CSD, samples of cortex (affected regions were identified with blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)), meninges from left and right hemispheres and trigeminal ganglia were taken for biochemical analysis. We found that CSD increased the level of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex and meninges, but also in both ipsi- and contralateral trigeminal ganglia. In order to test the pro-nociceptive action of ROS, we applied the mild oxidant hydrogen peroxide to isolated rat hemiskull preparations including preserved trigeminal innervations. Application of hydrogen peroxide to meninges transiently enhanced electrical spiking activity of trigeminal nerves showing a pro-nociceptive action of ROS. In the presence of hydrogen peroxide trigeminal nerves still responded to capsaicin by burst of spiking activity indicating integrity of neuronal structures. The action of hydrogen peroxide was mediated by TRPA1 receptors as it was abolished by the specific TRPA1 antagonist TCS-5861528. Using dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons as test system we found that hydrogen peroxide promoted the release of the migraine mediator calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which we previously identified as a trigger of delayed sensitization of trigeminal neurons. Our data suggest that, after CSD, oxidative stress spreads downstream within the trigeminal nociceptive system and could be involved in the coupling of CSD with the activation of trigeminovascular system in migraine pathology. 
Association between erythrocyte n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress in patients with and without depression.	Associations between n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), inflammation, oxidative stress and the risk of depression have been suggested. We hypothesize that erythrocyte n-3 PUFAs are inversely associated with biomarkers for inflammation and oxidative stress in Koreans with and without depression. Study participants comprised 80 cases diagnosed with depression based on the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale Korea version (CES-D-K) scores 25 and psychiatrist confirmation and 80 age- and sex-matched healthy controls without histories of depression. Depressed patients had lower levels of n-3 PUFAs and higher circulating levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), superoxide dismutase, interferon-, and nitrotyrosine compared to the controls. CES-D-K scores and levels of iNOS and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- were negatively associated with Omega-3 Index (erythrocyte levels of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid) after adjusting for confounding factors. Concentrations of iNOS, TNF-, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and nitrotyrosine were negatively correlated with erythrocyte levels of n-3 PUFAs, but positively with erythrocyte levels of n-6 PUFAs. Erythrocyte levels of n-3 PUFAs were inversely associated with circulating markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in Koreans with and without depression in this case control study. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to determine whether dietary or supplemental n-3 PUFAs can reduce inflammation and oxidative stress, and reduce depressive symptoms in humans. 
Islet transplantation and insulin administration relieve long-term complications and rescue the residual endogenous pancreatic  cells.	Islet transplantation is a poorly investigated long-term strategy for insulin replacement and for treatment of complications in patients with diabetes. We investigated whether islet transplantation and insulin treatment can relieve diabetic neuropathy and rescue the residual endogenous pancreatic  cells. We used a multimodal approach, with five groups of Sprague-Dawley rats studied for 8 months: control rats, diabetic rats, insulin-treated diabetic rats with moderate or mild hyperglycemia, and diabetic rats transplanted with microencapsulated islets. Islet transplantation normalized glycemia and increased body and muscle weight; it was also effective in reducing proteinuria and altered liver function. Transplantation significantly improved tail nerve conduction velocity, Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity, and morphological alterations in the sciatic nerve as evidenced by decrease in g-ratio; it also restored thermal and ameliorated mechanical nociceptive thresholds. Morphometric analysis of pancreas indicated a significant -cell volume increase in transplanted rats, compared with mildly and moderately hyperglycemic rats. Thus, allogeneic islet transplantation had a positive systemic effect in diabetic rats and induced regression of the established neuropathy and restitution of the typical characteristics of the islets. These findings strongly reinforce the need for improving glycemic control, not only to reverse established diabetic complications but also to improve -cell status in diabetic pancreas. 
Hypercholesterolemia induces short-term spatial memory impairments in mice: up-regulation of acetylcholinesterase activity as an early and causal event?	Epidemiological studies have indicated hypercholesterolemia in midlife as a risk factor for dementia in later life, bringing cholesterol to the forefront of Alzheimer's disease research. Herein, we modeled mild hypercholesterolemia in mice to evaluate biochemical and behavioral alterations linked to hypercholesterolemia. Swiss mice were fed a high fat/cholesterol diet (20% fat and 1.25% cholesterol) for an 8-week period (from 12 to 18weeks old) and were tested on the object location, forced swimming and elevated plus-maze tasks. We also investigated hypercholesterolemia-induced changes on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, oxidative damage, amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and blood brain barrier (BBB) integrity within the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. It was found that increased AChE activity within the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus is an early event associated with hypercholesterolemia-induced short-term memory impairments. We observed no signs of antioxidant imbalance and/or oxidative damage or changes in cortical and hippocampal densities of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 and aquaporin-4, biomarkers of APP processing and BBB integrity, respectively. In addition, we treated SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in an attempt to manipulate cell cholesterol content. Notably, LDL cholesterol increased in a dose-dependent manner the activity of AChE in SH-SY5Y cells. The present findings provide new evidence that increased AChE activity within the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus is an early event associated with hypercholesterolemia-induced cognitive impairments. 
Antioxidant effect of Arabic gum against mercuric chloride-induced nephrotoxicity.	The effects of Arabic gum (AG) against nephrotoxicity of mercury (Hg), an oxidative-stress inducing substance, in rats were investigated. A single dose of mercuric chloride (5 mg/kg intraperitoneal injection) induced renal toxicity, manifested biochemically by a significant increase in serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and total nitrate/nitrite production in kidney tissues. In addition, reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase enzymes in renal tissues were significantly decreased. Pretreatment of rats with AG (7.5 g/kg/day per oral administration), starting 5 days before mercuric chloride injection and continuing through the experimental period, resulted in a complete reversal of Hg-induced increase in creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and total nitrate/nitrite to control values. Histopathologic examination of kidney tissues confirmed the biochemical data; pretreatment of AG prevented Hg-induced degenerative changes of kidney tissues. These results indicate that AG is an efficient cytoprotective agent against Hg-induced nephrotoxicity by a mechanism related at least in part to its ability to decrease oxidative and nitrosative stress and preserve the activity of antioxidant enzymes in kidney tissues. 
The effect of a single Finnish sauna bath after aerobic exercise on the oxidative status in healthy men.	The aim of this study was to determine the effect of Finnish sauna as a regeneration method post-exercise on the oxidant-antioxidant balance in healthy men.
Cytochrome P450 1B1 contributes to increased blood pressure and cardiovascular and renal dysfunction in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	We investigated the contribution of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1B1 to hypertension and its pathogenesis by examining the effect of its selective inhibitor, 2,4,3',5'-tetramethoxystilbene (TMS), in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).
Progressive Parkinsonism by acute dysfunction of excitatory amino acid transporters in the rat substantia nigra.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive degeneration of substantia nigra (SN) dopamine neurons, involving a multifactorial cascade of pathogenic events. Here we explored the hypothesis that dysfunction of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) might be involved. Acutely-induced dysfunction of EAATs in the rat SN, by single unilateral injection of their substrate inhibitor l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), triggers a neurodegenerative process mimicking several PD features. Dopamine neurons are selectively affected, consistent with their sustained excitation by PDC measured by slice electrophysiology. The anti-oxidant N-acetylcysteine and the NMDA receptor antagonists ifenprodil and memantine provide neuroprotection. Besides oxidative stress and NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, glutathione depletion and neuroinflammation characterize the primary insult. Most interestingly, the degeneration progresses overtime with unilateral to bilateral and caudo-rostral evolution. Transient adaptive changes in dopamine function markers in SN and striatum accompany cell loss and axonal dystrophy, respectively. Motor deficits appear when neuron loss exceeds 50% in the most affected SN and striatal dopamine tone is dramatically reduced. These findings outline a functional link between EAAT dysfunction and several PD pathogenic mechanisms/pathological hallmarks, and provide a novel acutely-triggered model of progressive Parkinsonism. 
Resveratrol reverses cadmium chloride-induced testicular damage and subfertility by downregulating p53 and Bax and upregulating gonadotropins and Bcl-2 gene expression.	This study was performed to investigate the protective and therapeutic effects of resveratrol (RES) against CdCl2-induced toxicity in rat testes. Seven experimental groups of adult male rats were formulated as follows: A) controls+NS, B) control+vehicle (saline solution of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin), C) RES treated, D) CdCl2+NS, E) CdCl2+vehicle, F) RES followed by CdCl2 and M) CdCl2 followed by RES. At the end of the protocol, serum levels of FSH, LH and testosterone were measured in all groups, and testicular levels of TBARS and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were measured. Epididymal semen analysis was performed, and testicular expression of Bcl-2, p53 and Bax was assessed by RT-PCR. Also, histopathological changes of the testes were examined microscopically. Administration of RES before or after cadmium chloride in rats improved semen parameters including count, motility, daily sperm production and morphology, increased serum concentrations of gonadotropins and testosterone, decreased testicular lipid peroxidation and increased SOD activity. RES not only attenuated cadmium chloride-induced testicular histopathology but was also able to protect against the onset of cadmium chloride testicular toxicity. Cadmium chloride downregulated the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl2 and upregulated the expression of pro-apoptotic genes p53 and Bax. Resveratrol protected against and partially reversed cadmium chloride testicular toxicity via upregulation of Bcl2 and downregulation of p53 and Bax gene expression. The antioxidant activity of RES protects against cadmium chloride testicular toxicity and partially reverses its effect via upregulation of BCl2 and downregulation of p53 and Bax expression. 
Ethanol extract of lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) root exhibits an anti-adipogenic effect in human pre-adipocytes and anti-obesity and anti-oxidant effects in rats fed a high-fat diet.	Lotus (Nelumbo Nucifera) root, a well-known medicinal plant in Asia, is reported to have various therapeutic benefits, including anti-diabetes, anti-hypertension, and anti-hyperlipidaemia. We hypothesized that the ethanol extract of lotus root (ELR) would exhibit an anti-adipogenic effect in human pre-adipocytes as well as anti-obesity and anti-oxidant effects in rats fed a high-fat diet. Treatment with ELR in human pre-adipocytes resulted in inhibition of lipid accumulation and attenuated expression of adipogenic transcription factors such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma and adipocyte marker genes, such as glucose transporter 4 and leptin. Administration of ELR resulted in a significant decrease in relative weights of adipose tissues in rats fed a high-fat diet. Consumption of a high-fat diet resulted in an increase in serum total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) levels; however, administration of ELR resulted in a decrease in the levels of TC and TG. Administration of ELR resulted in a decrease in the level of serum leptin and insulin. Administration of ELR in rats fed a high-fat diet resulted in a decrease in hepatic thiobarbituric acid reactive substance content, elevated by a high-fat diet and an increase in superoxide dismutase activity and hepatic glutathione content. These results suggest that lotus root exerts anti-oxidant and anti-obesity effects and could be used as a functional and nutraceutical ingredient in combatting obesity-related diseases. 
Antioxidant intervention attenuates oxidative stress in children and teenagers with Down syndrome.	We previously demonstrated that systemic oxidative stress is present in Down syndrome (DS) patients. In the present study we investigated the antioxidant status in the peripheral blood of DS children and teenagers comparing such status before and after an antioxidant supplementation. Oxidative stress biomarkers were evaluated in the blood of DS patients (n=21) before and after a daily antioxidant intervention (vitamin E 400mg, C 500 mg) during 6 months. Healthy children (n=18) without DS were recruited as control group. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione S-transferase (GST), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), as well as the contents of reduced glutathione (GSH), uric acid, vitamin E, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and protein carbonyls (PC) were measured. Before the antioxidant therapy, DS patients presented decreased GST activity and GSH depletion; elevated SOD, CAT, GR, GGT and MPO activities; increased uric acid levels; while GPx and G6PD activities as well as vitamin E and TBARS levels were unaltered. After the antioxidant supplementation, SOD, CAT, GPx, GR, GGT and MPO activities were downregulated, while TBARS contents were strongly decreased in DS. Also, the antioxidant therapy did not change G6PD and GST activities as well as uric acid and PC levels, while it significantly increased GSH and vitamin E levels in DS patients. Our results clearly demonstrate that the antioxidant intervention with vitamins E and C attenuated the systemic oxidative damage present in DS patients.
Antioxidant effect of N-acetylcysteine on prehepatic portal hypertensive gastropathy in rats.	Portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome associated with the development of a hyperdynamic circulation and gastroesophageal varices. Aim. To evaluate the antioxidant effect of N-acetylcysteine on portal hypertensive rats.
Methylprednisolone and membrane properties of primary cultures of mouse spinal cord.	The present study attempts to define the capacity of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MP) to protect neuronal membranes against a free radical challenge in primary cultures of fetal mouse spinal cord. Incubation of these cultures with MP significantly increased the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity, an effect that was blocked by the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomysin D and the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, suggesting an induction of protein synthesis by MP. In contrast, incubation with FeCl2 for 1 or 2 h significantly inhibited Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and elevated the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Pretreatment with MP prevented the rise in TBARS and partially prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity for the first hour of FeCl2 incubation, an effect that was lost during the second hour. A second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2 partially restored Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and reduced TBARS levels after the second hour of exposure to FeCl2. Co-incubation of MP with cycloheximide completely prevented the decrease in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity seen after a 2-h incubation with FeCl2 and eliminated the need for a second dose of MP after the first hour of incubation with FeCl2. These findings suggest a capacity for rapid protein induction and antioxidant activity for MP in vitro.
Immunoreactivity of apolipoprotein B-100 in oxidatively modified low density lipoprotein.	Thirteen monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against apolipoprotein B-100 (apo B) were used to analyze changes in immunoreactivity of human LDL resulting from oxidation mediated by cupric ions and oxygen. Decrease in immunoreactivity of oxidized LDL was demonstrated by competitive ELISA with MAbs 5F8, BL3, Mb43, 2G8, B3, B5, and BL7 for which the epitopes are located within residues 1-1297, 4235-4355, 4027-4081, 3728-4306, 2239-2331, 1854-1878, and in the vicinity of residue 2331, respectively. Immunoreactivity of the epitope B6 (2239-2331) increased during first 4 hours of oxidation and then diminished gradually. Epitope B1 (405-539) had slightly reduced immunoreactivity during first 8 h of LDL oxidation and then its minor increase was observed. MAb 12G10, specific to the epitope within apo B thrombin-digest fragment T4 (1-1297), displayed either weak or strong binding to LDL. LDL with weak binding pattern demonstrated significant increase in immunoreactivity upon oxidation. In contrast, LDL with strong binding pattern showed little to no change. Epitopes Mb47 (3441-3569) and 8G4 (1-1297) remained unchanged in oxidized LDL. Immunoreactivity of apo B-100 epitope recognized by MAb 4C11 (residues 2377-2658) was shown to be a function of oxidation time: it increased progressively up to 16 h and was stabilized for another 24 h of LDL oxidation. This epitope may be unmasked by LDL oxidation and may provide a useful immunochemical marker to monitor the extent of LDL oxidation.
Effect of tea (Camellia sinensis L.) on lipid peroxidation in rat liver and kidney: a comparison of green and black tea feeding.	The antioxidant effects in the liver and kidney obtained from rat fed diets containing 3% green or black tea leaf powder, which were prepared from the same lot tea leaves, were studied using the tissue slice-antioxidant evaluation method with two lipid peroxidation inducers. After 50 d on the diets, liver slices prepared from green and black tea-supplemented rats showed significant inhibitory effects against tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced lipid peroxidation. These effects, however, were not proportional to the amounts of (-)-epicatechins and antioxidant vitamins in the tea leaves. In the kidney, the antioxidant effect was observed only in the green tea-fed group. A similar antioxidant effect on the kidney was observed after oral administration of a major tea polyphenol, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (50 mg/kg body weight for 7 d). Liver slices from black tea-fed rats also inhibited bromotrichloromethane-induced lipid peroxidation. These results demonstrated that dietary green and black tea had antioxidant effects on tissue lipid peroxidation ex vivo.
Catechol estrogens are more potent antioxidants than estrogens for the Cu(2+)-catalyzed oxidation of low or high density lipoprotein: antioxidative effects of steroids on lipoproteins.	In order to clarify the mechanism of antiatherogenic action of several steroids such as estrogens, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and dexamethasone, we investigated the effects of various steroids on the copper (Cu2+)-catalyzed oxidation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) or high density lipoprotein (HDL) in 0.15 M NaCl by measuring thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). At a concentration of 10(-5) M, estrogens strongly protected against LDL oxidation by 0.5 microM Cu2+ in the following order of inhibition: estradiol (E2) (75%), estrone (E1) (35%) and estriol (E3) (30%). However, the corresponding metabolites of these estrogens, the catechol estrogens, had an even more protective effect on LDL oxidation by 0.5 microM Cu2+ in the following order of inhibition: 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE2) (98%), 2-OHE1 (97%) and 2-OHE3 (96%). E2 and 2-OHE2 from 10(-7) M to 10(-5) M inhibited LDL oxidation in a dose-dependent manner, with a more marked effect for oxidation by 0.1 microM Cu2+ than by 0.5 microM Cu2+. 10(-5) M dexamethasone produced a slight (10%) but significant inhibition of LDL oxidation by 0.5 microM Cu2+. In addition, the estrogens and catechol estrogens were also effective in protecting against HDL oxidation by 0.5 microM Cu2+. Other steroids including DHEA and DHEA-sulfate had no antioxidative effects on either LDL or HDL in this system. These results indicate that estrogens and their metabolites, the catechol estrogens, exert antioxidative effects on both LDL and HDL. The catechol estrogens may be more important antioxidants than estrogens for both LDL and HDL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Protection of bradykinin on neonatal rat myocytes subjected to anoxia/reoxygenation injury.	This study was to investigate the effects of bradykinin (BK) on myocyte cultures. The effects of BK against lipid peroxidation and oxygen free radicals were estimated on an anoxia/reoxygenation injured model. A salicylate hydroxylation product dihydroxybenzoic acids (DHBA) was detected using HPLC with electrochemical detection, a sensitive device for assaying the hydroxyl free radical. BK (10 nmol.L-1) reduced thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS, from 1.94 +/- s 0.28 to 0.25 +/- 0.03 nmol/10(6) cells, n = 5, P < 0.01), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release (1.28 +/- 0.23 to 0.63 +/- 0.12 u.ml-1, n = 8, P < 0.01) and DHBA (60 +/- 5 to 44 +/- 12 nmol.L-1, n = 6, P < 0.01). These improvements were nullified by pretreatment with K86/4321 (1 mumol.L-1), a kind of BK receptor antagonist. Indometacin (Ind, 1 mumol.L-1) had a synergic action with BK to decrease the LDH release, but Ind (30 mumol.L-1) attenuated the protection of BK, while both LDH and TBARS were increased. The mechanism for protection of BK was ascribable to the activation of BK receptor, the inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and the decreased hydroxyl free radical formation.
Lipid peroxidation and chemiluminescence during naproxen metabolism in rat liver microsomes.	1. Rat liver microsomal suspension containing NADPH and MgCl2 was incubated at 37 degrees C with naproxen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBA-RS), high molecular weight protein aggregates and fluorescent substances were formed in the microsomal suspension. 2. Chemiluminescence was produced from the microsomal suspension. This chemiluminescence production was well correlated to the TBA-RS formation, indicating that the chemiluminescence production was closely associated with the lipid peroxidation. 3. The addition of SKF-525A to the microsomal suspension inhibited the production of TBA-RS, chemiluminescence and 6-demethylnaproxen (6-DMN), the oxidative product of naproxen. Further, the antioxidant, alpha-tocopherol and singlet oxygen quenchers like histidine, dimethylfuran and 1,4-diazabicyclo[2,2,2]octane strikingly inhibited the productions of chemiluminescence and TBA-RS. 4. Neither naproxen nor 6-DMN caused lipid peroxidation in the absence of NADPH. Thus, lipid peroxidation and chemiluminescence during the oxidation of naproxen in liver microsomes was suggested to be provoked by reactive oxygen species and an origin of chemiluminescence was shown to be singlet oxygen.
Variations in the level of urinary thiobarbituric acid reactant in healthy humans under different physiological conditions.	The level of urinary thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactants in healthy human subjects due to malonaldehyde derivatives was measured to assess the lipid peroxidation status of the whole body. For each subject the TBA reactant level over a day varied over a 2-3 fold range while the daily level varied over a 1.5-3 fold range under normal life-style conditions. One of the factors causing an increase in the reactant level within a single day may be the subjects's physical activity, because the reactant level of each subject was higher in the afternoon or in the evening than in the morning. Remaining awake all night or hard exercise caused a dramatic increase in the reactant level over a day and in the daily reactant level. The reactant level within a single day for a subject was increased 5.5 fold and the daily level 3 fold by remaining awake all night, and the level within a day was increased 22 fold by hard exercise while the corresponding daily level was increased 7 fold. It is unlikely that food, alcohol and smoking greatly affect the reactant level. The results suggest that increased physical activity enhances lipid peroxidation in the whole body and thus the increased urinary excretion of malonaldehyde derivatives.
Lipid peroxidation and platelet membrane fluidity--implications for Alzheimer's disease?	In humans, the fluidity of cell membranes generally decreases with age. Unexpectedly, several laboratories have found increased fluidity of platelet membranes (mainly endoplasmic reticulum) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared with controls. In the present study, free radical induced lipid peroxidation was found to increase the fluidity of platelet membranes. Hydroxyl radicals were generated in the presence of Fe2+ and EDTA at low concentrations of ascorbate. It is hypothesised that platelet membranes are unable to restore their microviscosity by incorporating cholesterol. There may be a link between the result obtained in this study, the recently discovered decreased cholesterol content of affected AD neuronal membranes, and the increased frequency of epsilon 4 apolipoprotein E (a cholesterol carrier) found in AD patients.
Antioxidative effect of dietary coenzyme Q10 in human blood plasma.	The effect of an oral dose of 90 mg/day coenzyme Q10 on the antioxidative status in 22 healthy young subjects (9 men and 13 women) was investigated before and after induction of an oxidative stress by fish oil supplementation. The levels of oxidised and reduced coenzyme Q10, alpha-tocopherol, ascorbate, TBARS and the fatty acid composition of phospholipids were determined in plasma. The total amount of plasma coenzyme Q10 increased significantly from 0.7 +/- 0.1 mumol/l before supplementation to 1.7 +/- 0.3 mumol/l after one week of supplementation while the redox status (reduced CoQ10/total CoQ10) remained constant, even during a following fish oil supplementation. The level of TBARS decreased during the first 2 weeks of CoQ10 ingestion while the content of alpha-tocopherol increased in the second week and ascorbate did not change. The decrease of TBARS and the presence of the majority of the orally supplemented CoQ10 in the reduced form in plasma seem to indicate an antioxidative role of CoQ10 in blood plasma.
Chelation of copper reduces inhibition by oxidized lipoproteins of endothelium-dependent relaxation in porcine coronary arteries.	We examined the effect of dialyzing oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oLDL) against Krebs-Ringer solution, in the absence (yielding d-oLDL) or presence (yielding EDTA-oLDL) of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), to investigate the mechanism that underlies the inhibition of endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) by o-LDL. Oxidation of LDL by exposure to Cu2+ resulted in the formation of a thiobarbituric acid-reacting substance (TBARS) and lipid hydroperoxide (LPO). At a concentration of 5 mg/dl, d-oLDL markedly attenuated EDR in the porcine coronary artery. Analysis of d-oLDL by gel filtration revealed that TBARS was ditributed in both the lipoprotein and the aqueous phases, whereas LPO was present only in the lipoprotein particles. Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), which has been suggested to be responsible for the impairment of EDR by oLDL, was present not only in the lipoprotein but also in the aqueous phase. However, EDR inhibitory activity was observed only in the oLDL particles, not in the aqueous phase. Almost all Cu2+ associated with the oLDL particles was removed by dialysis of oLDL against Krebs-Ringer solution containing EDTA. EDTA-oLDL or native LDL, at concentrations as high as 75 mg/dl, exerted only a moderate inhibitory action on EDR, Both TBARS and LPO in EDTA-oLDL were distributed only in the lipoprotein particles, not in the aqueous phase. These results demonstrate that the impairment of EDR by oLDL is related both to LPO and to transition metal ions such as Cu2+ associated with the lipoprotein particles, not to the amount of the TBARS or negative charge, and that factors other than LPC may affect EDR.
Antioxidative effects of a processed grain food.	Antioxidant biofactor: AOB is a unique processed grain food. It is a yellow-green powder. It contains the following extracts: germ extracts, soybean, rice bran, tear grass, sesame, wheat, citron, green tea, green leaf extract, and malted rice. These materials were slowly roasted under a powdered oure at less than 60 degrees C and fermented with Aspergillus oryzae over 3 days to transform each ingredient into low molecular weight substances. These conditions were different by each material, environmental humidity and temperature. It probably contains a variety of substances having antioxidant activity including flavonoids, alpha-tocopherol, vitamin C, and tannins. We investigated its antioxidative properties using electron spin resonance (ESR) and autoxidation of rat brain homogenates. The superoxide, hydroxyl radical, and the stable free radical, diphenyl-p-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity of AOB was investigated using ESR spectrometry. In an in vitro study, a suspension of AOB was added directly to a superoxide generating system (hypoxanthine-xanthine oxidase; HX/XO) and investigated using 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO) as a spin trapping agent. At final concentrations of 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 mg/ml, AOB dose-dependent scavenging activity was observed as 0.103, 0.619, and 1.369 U/ml, respectively. A concentration of 1.0 mg/ml completely scavenged DMPO-OOH signals; 1.0 mg/ml of AOB inhibited the DMPO-OH signal generated by Fenton's reaction, but its inhibitory effect was not competitive, and was inhibition of the Fenton's reaction. 1.0, 3.0, and 5.0 mg/ml of AOB were significantly inhibited the DPPH radical. In an in vivo study, rats were fed AOB orally at doses of 1 or 5 g/day for 24 h or for 3 days and the superoxide scavenging activity was measured in plasma. With the administration of 1 g/day for 3 days, the superoxide scavenging activity was about 1.8 times that of the control group fed a basal diet; 1.5 times the control with 5 g/day for 1 day, and 2.6 times the control with 5 g/day for 3 days, all of which represented significant increases in superoxide scavenging activity. AOB strongly inhibited the autoxidation of rat brain homogenates in vitro in a dose-dependent manner. However, each ingredient before roast and fermentation little inhibited lipid peroxidation. Roasting and fermentation with A. oryzae way be important to transform each ingredient into low molecular weight substances. Therefore, it was suggested that AOB possesses strong antioxidant and free radical scavenging activities.
In vivo and in vitro sevoflurane-induced lipid peroxidation in guinea-pig liver microsomes.	Sevoflurane is a recently introduced volatile inhalation anaesthetic and is already used commonly in Japan. We investigated the potential of sevoflurane to cause lipid peroxidation in vivo and in vitro. For the in vitro study, pentane formation in a mixture of guinea pig liver microsomes and sevoflurane in the presence of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) was analyzed by gas chromatography. Under anaerobic conditions, pentane formed without sevoflurane, but sevoflurane potentiated this anaerobic pentane formation. Two antioxidant agents, vitamine E and glutathione, reduced the pentane formation induced by sevoflurane. In the in vivo study, 18 guinea pigs were exposed to air (control), 0.5% halothane, or 1.2% sevoflurane. The extent of lipid peroxidation and liver damage was investigated by measuring the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive products and serum transaminase (alanine-aminotransferase: ALAT and aspartate-aminotransferase: ASAT) activity 12 hr after exposure. Both halothane and sevoflurane significantly increased thiobarbituric acid-reactive products. The increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive products seen with sevoflurane administration was half that seen with halothane. Sevoflurane increased the ALAT activity to the same extent as did halothane but did not increase the ASAT activity. We conclude that sevoflurane potentiates lipid peroxidation in guinea pig liver microsomes in vivo and in vitro. However, because the degree of liver damage as measured by transaminase activity was minimal and the mechanism of sevoflurane-induced lipid peroxidation is still unknown, we must be cautious in applying these results to humans.
Is there a relationship between indomethacin-induced reduction in neonatal cerebral blood flow velocity and prostaglandin production?	Indomethacin lowers neonatal cerebral perfusion immediately after intravenous administration. It is important to elucidate whether this reduction is mediated by inhibition of production of prostaglandins, especially prostacyclin, which plays an important role in the autoregulation of the neonatal cerebral vascular bed. We studied changes in cerebral blood flow by serial measurements of temporal mean flow velocity in the anterior cerebral artery (TMFV-ACA), relative cerebral vascular resistance (R-cer), and prostaglandins (measured as changes in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances concentration; TBARS) after a therapeutic dose of 0.1 mg/kg indomethacin administered intravenously for noninvasive closure of patent ductus arteriosus. TMFV-ACA decreased and R-cer increased immediately after the indomethacin administration with a sustained recovery to pre-indomethacin values. The TBARS concentrations, however, did not change during the study period. We conclude that the present study suggests that a therapeutic dose of 0.1 mg/kg of indomethacin has no impact on prostaglandin metabolism.
Inhibition of rat liver microsomal lipid peroxidation elicited by 2,2-dimethylchromenes and chromans containing fluorinated moieties resistant to cytochrome P-450 metabolism.	2,2-Dimethylchromenes and chromans containing cytochrome P-450 resistant 2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy aryl substituents were synthesized and their activity as lipid peroxidation inhibitors evaluated and compared with that exhibited by the corresponding non-fluorinated derivatives. Lipid peroxidation was stimulated in rat liver microsomes by addition of Fe-ascorbate or NADPH, and determined with the TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances) test. In assays using Fe-ascorbate stimulation, only those derivatives with a OH group at C6 (i.e. 6 and 12) elicited good inhibitory activities (IC50 = 6.0 and 5.3 microM, respectively). In respect to the NADPH dependent incubations, inhibitory activity of compound 11 (IC50 = 6.0 microM) was the highest found within the 6,7-dialkoxy derivatives tested. Results on metabolism assays with this compound showed the generation of phenol 12 (i.e. the putative active antioxidant species); on the other hand, no metabolite resulting from dealkylation at C7 was detected, thus confirming the resistance conferred by the CF3CH2O group to the cytochrome P-450 promoted cleavage. Finally, in assays where incubations in the presence of NADPH were prolonged up to three hours, inhibitory activity of the non-fluorinated 6,7-dialkoxychroman 8 remained constant, thus suggesting that a continued release of the species responsible for the inhibitory activity was produced. However, inhibition elicited by the fluorinated analog 11 showed a small decrease during the third hour of incubation. This decrease could be attributed to the slight inhibition of the cytochrome P-450 metabolism exerted by substrates bearing the CF3CH2O substituent, which would decelerate the generation of the active phenol species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Resistance of rat kidney mitochondrial membranes to oxidation induced by acute iron overload.	The effect of iron-overload on rat kidney was studied after a single injection of iron-dextran. Total iron content in kidney and isolated kidney mitochondria was markedly elevated over control values. To assess mitochondrial damage by iron overload, succinate-cytochrome c reductase and NADH-cytochrome c reductase activities as well as the rate of succinate-dependent hydrogen peroxide generation were measured. None of these activities were significantly affected by acute iron overload. The net content and the rate of TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive species) formation in kidney homogenates from iron-treated rats was significantly higher than that of control animals. Total superoxide dismutase activity in the homogenates from iron overloaded kidney was decreased by 26%, as compared to controls. Catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and Mn-superoxide dismutase activities were not affected by the treatment. The content of alpha-tocopherol was consistently decreased in whole kidney homogenates (-31%), mitochondria from kidney medulla (-31%) and cortex (-34%), from iron-overloaded rats. Our data suggest that iron dextran treatment does not affect kidney integrity, even though increases in lipid peroxidation occur. Vitamin E appears to be effective in controlling iron-dextran dependent radical generation in kidney.
Inhibition of diphosphatidylglycerol synthesis by u.v. A radiations in N.C.T.C. 2544 human keratinocytes.	The effects of u.v. A radiations on phospholipid synthesis were studied in the N.C.T.C. 2544 human keratinocyte cell line, by using [14C]arachidonic acid, [14C]oleic acid or sodium [32P]orthophosphate as precursors. Cells were irradiated in Hanks' medium with 365 nm light at doses up to 19 J/cm2, and then phospholipid synthesis from the three precursors was studied. Under these conditions, only small alterations in the incorporation pattern of [14C]arachidonic into phospholipids [phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylinositol (PI)] were observed, for u.v. A irradiation doses up to 19 J/cm2. In contrast, with [14C]oleic acid as precursor, two additional spots were observed, which co-migrate with pure phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG) standards. The incorporation of [14C]oleic acid into PG and DPG was decreased in a dose-dependent manner after u.v. A exposure, with about 50% and 75% decreases at 9.5 J/cm2 and 19 J/cm2 respectively. As for arachidonic acid incorporation, no significant differences in the synthesis of the major phospholipids (PC, PE, PI) were noted upon u.v. A exposure. The dramatic and selective decrease in PG and DPG syntheses was confirmed with [32P]orthophosphate as precursor. As DPG is a specific component of the mitochondrial inner membrane, it appears that one of the early kinds of damage induced by u.v. A irradiation could be the impairment of mitochondrial functions.
Humic-like substances in cigarette smoke condensate and lung tissue of smokers.	Deposition of pigmented matter in the lower respiratory tract correlates with the extent of emphysema in smokers as well as with free radical generation and iron accumulation. Pulmonary emphysema is postulated to be mediated by free radical generation which is either directly or indirectly associated with cigarette smoke exposure. The hypothesis was tested that 1) incomplete combustion of tobacco yields humic-like substances (HLS) which 2) deposit in the lung as pigmented particulates, 3) complex iron cations in vitro and in vivo, and 4) have a capacity to catalyze oxidant formation. HLS, isolated by alkali extraction of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) (Tobacco Health Research Institute, University of Kentucky), demonstrated a high carbon and low carboxylate content on elemental and functional group analyses, respectively, compared with values for HLS sequestered from soils. The HLS isolated from CSC had a capacity to complex iron in vitro and accumulated the metal in vivo after intratracheal instillation in an animal model. Both HLS and its iron complex generated free radicals, and some portion of this oxidant generation was metal dependent. Lung tissue collected at autopsy from smokers contained HLS with an infrared spectrum almost identical to that of the material isolated from CSC. Associations between particulate deposition, metal accumulation, and free radical generation suggest a possible role of HLS in the induction of lung disease following cigarette exposure.
DNA strand breaks following in vitro exposure to asbestos increase with surface-complexed [Fe3+].	Surface functional groups on silicate dusts complex iron cations which can cycle through reduction and oxidation states to generate free radicals. These oxidants have a capacity to produce DNA strand breaks and mutations which are primary events in cancer induction. A differential in the capacity of fibrous silicates to produce carcinoma is recognized with the amphiboles demonstrating a greater biologic effect than the serpentine fiber chrysotile. We tested the hypothesis that the differences in genotoxicity of these fibrous silicates correspond to varying concentrations of iron complexed to the surface. Relative to chrysotile, the amphibole fibers complexed greater amounts of iron cations from both inorganic and in vivo sources. Increased concentrations of surface-complexed iron were associated with greater oxidant generation, measured as thiobarbituric acid-reactive products of deoxyribose, and more covalently closed, circular DNA strand scission. These results indicate that genotoxic effects of these fibers may correspond to their capacity to complex iron at the surface.
Influence of dietary vitamin E on the 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine levels in rat liver DNA.	Rats were fed either a low vitamin E (VE) diet (-VE), a basal VE diet (+VE, 4.5 mg%), or a high VE diet (+VE, 45 mg%) for 7 weeks. VE content, oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxide levels in their livers were measured. When purified lard was used as a dietary fat, VE content decreased in the low VE group to one-thirtieth of that in the basal VE group; in the high VE group it increased to 4.5-fold that in the basal VE group. Corresponding to the VE levels, lipid peroxide levels increased to 2.7-fold in the low VE group and decreased to two-thirds in the high VE group. The level of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in DNA, a marker of oxidative DNA damage, was about 0.6 per 10(5) deoxyguanosine in the basal VE group and comparable values were found in the low VE and the high VE groups. When either soybean oil or safflower oil was used as a dietary fat, VE content and lipid peroxide levels in the liver were also markedly changed in both the low VE group and the high VE group. 8-OHdG levels in DNA of the low VE with safflower oil group tended to be higher than that of the basal and high VE groups. However, no significant difference was observed among them. These results suggest that the change in VE has little influence on the level of oxidative DNA damage in the liver.
Analysis of lipoprotein diene formation in human serum exposed to copper.	The susceptibility of low density lipoprotein (LDL) to oxidative modification can be determined by analyzing the lag phase for initiation of diene formation in isolated LDL exposed to Cu2+. However, the applicability of this assay for clinical studies is limited by the requirement of a preparative ultracentrifugation of LDL and that the influence of water soluble antioxidants and other lipoproteins is not accounted for. The present paper describes a modification of this assay allowing determination of lag phase for lipoprotein diene formation in serum. The formation of dienes in serum exposed to Cu2+ begins following the consumption of serum alpha-tocopherol, correlates to the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (r = 0.987, n = 8), is inhibited by the addition of ascorbic acid and is absent in lipoprotein-deficient serum. It is also accompanied by an increased mobility of serum lipoproteins on agarose gel electrophoresis and with an ability of serum to displace isolated copper-oxidized LDL from binding sites mediating degradation in mouse peritoneal macrophages. The coefficient of variance of the analysis is below 3%. It is concluded that this technique allows analysis of lipoprotein oxidation susceptibility in serum samples and may prove to be useful in clinical analysis of the lipoprotein oxidation susceptibility.
Dietary supplementation with vitamins C and E inhibits in vitro oxidation of lipoproteins.	The oxidative modification of lipoproteins has been implicated in atherogenesis, suggesting a protective role of circulating antioxidants. Vitamin C (ascorbic acid, 1 g/day) and vitamin E (dl alpha-tocopheryl acetate, 800 IU/day) were administered to healthy female and male volunteers. Lipoproteins with density < 1.063 g/mL were isolated from serum before and after vitamin supplementation and incubated with copper (Cu) or mononuclear cells (MC) plus Cu. Administration of vitamins C and E together to 4 subjects for 10 days resulted in a 57% (range 40-72%) decrease in Cu-catalyzed production of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) under the following conditions of assay: incubation times of 0-8 hours, Cu concentrations of 0-10 microM lipoprotein protein concentrations of 0.1-0.5 mg/mL. Decreases in other parameters of lipoprotein oxidation, i.e,, electrophoretic mobility, production of conjugated dienes and modification of amino groups, were also observed. Vitamin E administration alone produced a 52% inhibition and vitamin C alone a 15% inhibition of TBARS formation. Vitamins C and E supplementation resulted in a 78% decrease in the susceptibility of lipoproteins to MC-mediated oxidation. There was a strong inverse correlation (r = -0.64, p < 0.0007) between vitamin E levels in the lipoproteins and TBARS production in samples from 12 subjects administered vitamins C and E. In 3 individuals vitamin E levels remained low and in 2 of these subjects there was no effect of vitamins C and E administration on TBARS production. These results suggest a protective role of antioxidant vitamins and significant individual variability in response.
Effect of dimethyl sulfoxide pretreatment on activities of lipid peroxide formation, superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase in the mouse liver after whole-body irradiation.	We investigated the effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) on radiation damage in the mouse. DMSO (i.p. 0.11 g/mouse) administered 30 min before exposure protected the mice from the gamma-whole body irradiation: the 30 days lethality was significantly decreased from 44% to 16% (P < 0.05). The contents of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances(TBA-RS) in the mouse liver increased linearly between days 2 and 10 after 9 Gy gamma ray irradiation. The TBA-RS contents in the liver on days 2 to 10 after irradiation were reduced by DMSO pretreatment. The irradiation decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the liver on day 10. Decrease in SOD activity was prevented by DMSO pretreatment. In the electron microscopic study, the mitochondria in the irradiated mouse liver were swollen, but we could observe no change after DMSO pretreatment. The results suggest that DMSO has radioprotective effects, probably due to inhibition of lipid peroxidation.
Effect of a combination of pentoxifylline and nimodipine on lipid peroxidation in postischemic rat brain.	The authors studied the effects of a combination of pentoxifylline and nimodipine on cerebral lipid peroxidation in postischemic rat brain. Pentoxifylline (40 mg/kg) and nimodipine (3 mg/kg) were administered per os 30 min before 5 min of ischemia (four-vessel occlusion model of transient ischemia). The extent of peroxidation in brain tissue (cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum) was then estimated by assay of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). The concentration of TBARS was significantly lower in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of the group treated with the combination of drugs than in untreated ischemic rats. However, this concentration was not significantly different from that found in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of other groups premedicated with nimodipine or pentoxifylline alone. The tested drugs had no effect on TBARS in the striatum. The hypothesis that the combination of drugs would have a synergistic effect on postischemic lipid peroxidation was therefore not confirmed.
Plasma lipid peroxidation and hyperglycaemia: a connection through hyperinsulinaemia?	Increased lipid peroxidation has been commonly observed in diabetic patients as compared to control subjects. However, studies on the relationship to metabolic control have yielded conflicting results and no data are available on the relationship of hyperinsulinaemia to lipid peroxidation. We investigated, in well-characterized groups of 93 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, 22 subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and 96 subjects with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), the determinants of plasma lipid peroxidation measured by plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). These were significantly higher in subjects with IGT (1.04 +/- 0.48 mumol I-1) and in NIDDM patients (1.00 +/- 0.48 mumol I-1) than in those with NGT (0.75 +/- 0.46 mumol I-1; p < 0.05). The glucose tolerance status was the major determinant of increased lipid peroxidation even after controlling for the effects of age, sex, body mass index, physical activity, use of alcohol, smoking, and the use of diuretics. In regression analyses the major determinants of plasma TBARS were fasting plasma glucose, insulin, and apolipoprotein A1 (inversely) levels. To conclude, plasma TBARS were increased in impaired glucose tolerance and in diabetes and they were related to prevailing plasma glucose and insulin levels, suggesting a role for insulin resistance in increased lipid peroxidation process. On the contrary, apolipoprotein A1 may have protective effects in this respect.
Human obesity: from lipid abnormalities to lipid oxidation.	The obese state has been recognized to accentuate the known risk factors for atherosclerotic disease as dyslipidemia, hypertension, glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. Among other risk factors, obesity is characterized by a series of lipid disturbances, such as hypercholesterolemia, high fasting (and postprandial) triglyceride levels, low HDL cholesterol, high apolipoprotein B, high small dense lipoprotein particles and alterations of serum and tissue LPL-activity. Although obesity is associated with such cluster of lipid abnormalities, these factors do not explain the complete process of atherogenesis in the obese subject. Other risk factors belonging to the polymetabolic syndrome-cluster, insulin resistance, hypertension, fibrinogen, add substantial but not full explanation to the atherothrombotic process. Over the last decade, a series of excellent studies have provided the background for a more indepth mechanism of atherosclerosis; the role of lipid peroxidation in particular has been one of the focuses of this current research. There exists a lot of evidence suggesting a major role for oxidized LDL and VLDL particles in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Although obesity is characterized by dyslipidemia, less is known about the oxidation capacity of lipoproteins in obese subjects. We measured the oxidizability in vitro in 21 premenopausal women and compared them to 18 age-matched controls. The oxidizability of the non-HDL fraction is evaluated by measuring the fluorescence and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS: MDA nM/mg non-HDL) at different time intervals of incubation. TBARS formation increased linearly with the increase of lipids both in non-obese and obese subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Scavenging of free-radicals and inhibition of lipid peroxidation by 3-phenylsydnone.	The antioxidant properties of 3-phenylsydnone were studied in various models in-vitro. 3-Phenylsydnone scavenged the stable free radical, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl, and inhibited the degradation of deoxyribose mediated by hydroxyl radicals, although, to a lesser extent than trolox, a water soluble analogue of vitamin E. Many antioxidants possess pro-oxidant properties due to their ability to reduce ferric ions; however, 3-phenylsydnone was free from pro-oxidant properties, and also inhibited the lipid peroxidation induced by iron, in rat brain homogenates.
Protection by multiple antioxidants against lipid peroxidation in rat liver homogenate.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that multiple antioxygenic nutrients provide increased protection against lipid peroxidative damage to rat liver. Rats were fed diets (i) deficient in vitamin E and selenium (Diet 1), (ii) supplemented with vitamin E and selenium (Diet 2), (iii) supplemented with (ii) and in addition trolox C, N-acetylcysteine, coenzyme Q0, and (+)-catechin (Diet 3), or (iv) supplemented with (iii) and in addition beta-carotene, ascorbic acid palmitate, canthaxanthin, and coenzyme Q10 (Diet 4). Liver homogenates were obtained from three rats fed each of the diets for six weeks and were incubated at 37 degrees C up to two hours with and without exogenous tertiary-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP) or Cu2+. Lipid peroxidation was determined by measurement of thiobarbituric acid substances. Diets 2 and 3 significantly protected against in vivo hepatic lipid peroxidation, and this protection was augmented by Diet 4. Diets 2, 3, and 4 were protective against mild oxidation induced by TBHP or Cu2+. During incubations with exogenous TBHP and Cu2+, there were only small differences between diets supplemented with antioxidants in inhibition of lipid peroxidation, indicating that diets supplemented with vitamin E and selenium (Diet 2) may have provided the maximal protection for liver. The possible mechanisms of protection provided by multiple antioxidants in diets were discussed. Protection by multiple antioxidants against lipid peroxidation may translate to prevention of peroxidative damage to human tissue, a factor in human disease.
Iron-ascorbate-phospholipid mediated modification of low density lipoprotein.	LDL can be oxidized by a variety of agents to form a modified lipoprotein which is capable of being avidly metabolized by macrophages. While previous in vitro studies have focused exclusively on the oxidation of LDL, other lipids found in the atheroma are also subject to oxidation and its lipoperoxide byproducts may contribute to the process of LDL modification. To examine the relationship between the oxidation of phospholipids and the subsequent modification of LDL, we incubated 250 microM phosphatidylcholine with 10 microM ferrous sulfate and 50 microM ascorbic acid in 10 mM Tris (pH 7.0). After 18 h at 37 degrees C, significant amounts of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were formed. The inclusion of LDL (100 micrograms protein/ml) elevated the TBARS and increased the electrophoretic mobility of the lipoprotein. LDL treated with iron and ascorbate in the absence of phosphatidylcholine did not result in the modification of this lipoprotein. LDL that was incubated with phosphatidylcholine, iron and ascorbate was found to be metabolized by macrophages to a far greater extent than native LDL or LDL treated with phosphatidylcholine alone. Probucol (10 microM) inhibited the LDL modification process. These results demonstrate that while iron and ascorbate cannot oxidize LDL directly, the addition of phosphatidylcholine to these initiators of lipid peroxidation can mediate and lead to the modification of LDL.
Serum indicators of free radical activity in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	Serum levels of free radical activity were measured in 37 patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and 16 control subjects. Three assays used were (1) simultaneously measured levels of the 9,11-diene conjugate of linoleic acid and 9,12-linoleic acid expressed as a percent molar ratio (%MR), a measure of free-radical-mediated lipid peroxidation; (2) thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), one of which is malondialdehyde; (3) desferrioxamine-chelatable iron assay, a measure of the potential iron available to catalyze free radical generation. Mean %MR, TBARS and desferrioxamine-chelatable iron were all elevated initially in patients with IPF compared with control subjects (%MR, p < 0.0001; TBARS, p = 0.0013; desferrioxamine-chelatable iron, p = 0.0029). Furthermore, the serum %MR was higher in a subset of patients with clinically worsening IPF than in those patients with clinically stable disease (p = 0.002). Treatment did not appear to affect the three different serum indicators of free radical activity. Thus, lipid peroxidation appears to be increased in patients with IPF and is associated with an increase in desferrioxamine-chelatable iron levels. Serum % MR levels appeared to correlate with clinical disease activity, and they may have a role in monitoring disease activity.
Caffeine as an antioxidant: inhibition of lipid peroxidation induced by reactive oxygen species.	Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethyl xanthine), an ingredient of coffee, has been investigated for its potential antioxidant activity against oxidative damage to rat liver microsomes. Such damage was induced by three reactive oxygen species of cardinal importance in causing membrane damage in vivo namely hydroxyl radical (.OH), peroxyl radical (ROO.) and singlet oxygen (1O2). The results obtained showed that caffeine was an effective inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, at millimolar concentrations, against all the three reactive species. The extent of inhibition was high against peroxidation induced by .OH, medium against 1O2 and low against ROO. In general, the antioxidant ability of caffeine was similar to that of the established biological antioxidant glutathione and significantly higher than ascorbic acid. Investigations into the possible mechanisms involved in the observed antioxidant effect reveal that the quenching of these reactive species by caffeine may be one of the possible factor responsible. The rate constant of caffeine with .OH was 7.3 x 10(9) M-1 s-1 and with 1O2 it was 2.9 x 10(7) M-1 s-1. Considering their potential for damage, half-life estimates and generation in biological systems, the ability of caffeine to inhibit oxidative damage induced by these reactive species in membranes suggest one more positive attribute of caffeine, whose daily intake as coffee may be considerable in most populations.
Protective effects of chlorogenic acid on paraquat-induced oxidative stress in rats.	The protective effects of chlorogenic acid on paraquat-induced oxidative stress were examined in rats. The activities of erythrocytes and liver glutathione peroxidase, and of both liver catalase and glutathione reductase, which were increased by feeding paraquat, declined to the levels in the control rats by supplementing chlorogenic acid to the paraquat diet. The activity of superoxide dismutase was not changed by dietary paraquat or by supplementing chlorogenic acid to the paraquat diet. Paraquat in the diet markedly decreased the liver triacylglycerol and phospholipid concentrations, as well as the food intake and body weight gain, while chlorogenic acid protected against these decreases. These in vivo results and the in vitro superoxide anion scavenging activity of chlorogenic acid suggest that chlorogenic acid acted preventively against paraquat-induced oxidative stress.
Lipid peroxidation during acute stress.	Lipid peroxidation (LPO) is one of the main events induced by oxidative stress. The aim of our study was to investigate the influence of 30 min cold-immobilization (model of acute stress used in this experiment) on LPO in the brain, heart, liver and stomach homogenates of the rats. LPO was determined by measuring of the contents of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and sulfhydryl groups (SH). Experimental stress induced enhancement of TBARS formation in the liver and increased level of the CD in the heart, stomach and liver, while in the brain both parameters were found to be decreased. The levels of TBARS were not changed in the heart and in the stomach, too. The concentrations of SH-groups were decreased in the heart, brain and stomach, while in the liver the parameter was found to be not changed. The results of this study showed the increase of LPO in the heart, stomach and liver under stress conditions. It could be supposed that LPO may be involved in mechanisms of stress injury in different tissues.
Age and exercise-related changes in lipid peroxidation and superoxide dismutase activity in liver and soleus muscle tissues of rats.	Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) level, as marker of lipid peroxidation, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, as endogenous antioxidant enzyme, were examined in liver and soleus muscle tissue of young and old male Wistar rats. We established different types of exercise running on a treadmill both for young and old rats, investigated the effect of aging, exhaustion and training on these groups. The hepatic TBARS levels were raised in the short-training young group and in the long-training old group. On the other hand, the TBARS content decreased in soleus muscle in the short-training young group, and long-training exercise enhanced lipid peroxidation in old rats. SOD activity increased in liver in short-training group. while this activity showed the lowest values in long-training old rats. With respect to soleus muscle tissue, SOD activity was elevated after exhaustive exercise in young rats and old rats had the highest activity in the long-training old group. These findings suggest that free radicals play a role in aging and that the different type, intensity and duration of exercise modify the lipid peroxidation level and antioxidant enzyme activity.
Anti-ulcer effects of antioxidants: effect of probucol.	We investigated the effect of probucol, a lipid-lowering agent with antioxidant properties, on HCl plus ethanol-induced gastric mucosal injury and on the healing of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. When the free radical-scavenging activity of probucol was measured by an electron spin resonance technique, the agent (10(-5)-10(-3) M) scavenged both superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals. Oral administration of probucol (250-1000 mg/kg) dose dependently prevented the HCl plus ethanol-induced gastric mucosal injury and the increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, an index of lipid peroxidation, in the injured mucosa. Repeated oral administration of probucol (250-1000 mg/kg twice daily) dose dependently accelerated the healing of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers. In addition, probucol already inhibited the increase in the content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the ulcerated region before the ulcer-healing effect of this agent was recognized. These results suggest that probucol may partly protect gastric mucosa from acute gastric mucosal injury and promote the healing of chronic gastric ulcers by its antioxidant activity.
Scavestrogens protect IMR 32 cells from oxidative stress-induced cell death.	Oxidative stress is considered an important pathophysiological mechanism contributing to promote cell death in a broad variety of diseases including cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disorders. The so-called scavestrogens J811 and J861, structurally derived from 17alpha-estradiol, are potent radical scavengers and inhibitors of iron-induced cell damage in vitro. In this study the potential cytoprotective effects of the scavestrogens J811 and J861 against Fenton reagent-induced cell damage (50 microM FeSO4 plus 200 microM H2O2) were compared with those of 17alpha- and 17beta-estradiol. Cell viability studies using Trypan blue staining showed that estradiols and scavestrogens at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 10 microM are able to protect IMR 32 neuroblastoma cells from Fenton-mediated death. In addition, these compounds decreased lipid peroxidation measured as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and renormalize oxidative stress-increased intracellular glutathione levels. When given 6 h after the toxic stimulus, J811 and J861 rescued 60% of cells, whereas 17alpha- and 17beta-estradiol were ineffective. These results suggest that the scavestrogens J811 and J861 are powerful antioxidants capable of interfering with radical-mediated cell death in diseases known to be aggravated by reactive oxygen species. Such compounds may be useful in the development of novel treatments for stroke or neurodegenerative disorders.
Photolysis and membrane lipid peroxidation of human erythrocytes by m-chloroperbenzoic acid.	The aim of the present work was to investigate the biological hazard of photooxidation products of m-chloroperbenzoic acid (mCPBA), as a novel photo-sensitizer, on lysis and membrane lipid peroxidation of human red blood cells (RBC). The photohemolysis activity of mCPBA oxidative products was concentration- and exposure time-dependent. Ten minutes photoexposure time and 100 micromol/L of mCPBA concentration were optimum to study the effect of generated superoxide (O2.-) and hydroxyl (.OH) radicals on RBC. The hemolytic effect of mCPBA was highly significantly inhibited by formate (as an .OH radical scavenger) compared with the partial inhibition effect of SOD-like Cu(II) complex (as O2.- radical Scavenger). The MDA value (an end product of membrane lipid peroxidation of RBC) induced by mCPBA was highly significantly decreased by formate. The generation of O2.- radicals by mCPBA was also confirmed by the partial hemolytic effect of phenazine methosulfate (PMS., O2.- radical generation). The data suggest the molecular mechanism of the oxygen radical species (O2.- and .OH through the photosensitization reaction of mCPBA and explain that hydroxyl radicals (.OH) play an active role in the photohemolysis process and peroxidation of membrane lipids of human erythrocytes.
Effect of nicotine and cotinine on the susceptibility to in vitro oxidation of LDL in healthy non smokers and smokers.	Cigarette smoke of which the major component is nicotine plays an important role in the development of cardiovascular diseases. To study the effect of in vitro incubation of LDL with nicotine and its metabolite, cotinine on a copper-induced peroxidation, we monitored the formation of conjugated dienes, hydroperoxides and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances production. The LDL studied were taken from six non-smokers (aged 41.5 years) and six smokers who consumed at least ten cigarettes per day (40.7 years). LDL oxidation with CuSO4 showed that cigarette smoking promotes LDL susceptibility to peroxidative modification. During the peroxidation of LDL with nicotine (O to 5 mmol/1) and CuSO4 (5 micromol/l), the formation of hydroperoxides decreased when nicotine concentrations increased and the production of TBARS increased in a concomitant manner. The results showed that the presence of nicotine destabilized the production of hydroperoxides in LDL and increased the formation of secondary oxidation products. On the other hand, cotinine had no effect on LDL oxidative susceptibility in smokers and non-smokers.
Amiodarone-induced disruption of hamster lung and liver mitochondrial function: lack of association with thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance production.	Amiodarone (AM) is an efficacious antidysrhythmic agent that is limited clinically by numerous adverse effects. Of greatest concern is AM-induced pulmonary toxicity (AIPT) due to the potential for mortality. Mitochondrial alterations and free radicals have been implicated in the etiology of AM-induced toxicities, including AIPT. Isolated hamster lung and liver mitochondria were assessed for AM-induced effects on respiration, membrane potential, and lipid peroxidation. AM (50-400 microM) stimulated state 4 (resting) respiration at complexes I and II of tightly coupled lung mitochondria, with higher concentrations (200 and 400 microM) resulting in a subsequent inhibition. This biphasic effect of AM (200 microM) was also observed with isolated liver mitochondria. Only inhibition of respiration was observed with AM (50-400 microM) in less tightly coupled lung mitochondria. Based on safranine fluorescence, 200 microM AM decreased lung mitochondrial membrane potential (p < 0.05), while a concentration-dependent (50-200 microM) decrease of membrane potential was observed with liver mitochondria exposed to AM (p < 0.05). Formation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) was not altered by AM (50-400 microM) in incubations lasting up to 1 h. These results indicate that lipid peroxidation, as indicated by levels of TBARS, does not play a role in AM-induced alterations in mitochondrial respiration and membrane potential.
Oxysterols and TBARS are among the LDL oxidation products which enhance thromboxane A2 synthesis by platelets.	In this study, we compared the effects of normal LDL (nLDL) and oxidized LDL (oxLDL) on thromboxane (TXA2) release by platelets triggered by low concentration of thrombin, and we determined which component of oxLDL is responsible for that activation. After oxidation of LDL with copper sulfate, the small molecular weight fraction (< 10 kDa) which was high in TBARS was removed; using Amicon Centriprep-10 concentrator membrane. More than 67% of TBARS in the oxLDL preparation was found in solution while the remaining was covalently attached to the oxLDL particles. OxLDL contained significantly higher levels of oxysterols and TBARS than the nLDL. Platelets preincubated with low concentrations of oxLDL (33-132 micrograms protein/mL) produced significantly higher TXA2 than platelets preincubated with equivalent concentrations of nLDL when triggered with thrombin. Platelets treated with oxLDL also contained significantly higher levels of oxysterols than platelets treated with nLDL. Platelets preincubated with pure cholestanetriol (10 micrograms/mL) contained a high level of cholestanetriol in the membrane, and TXA2 release was significantly increased in these platelets compared to the control platelets. The TBARS in solution also was very potent in enhancing TXA2 release by thrombin-treated platelets. These results indicate that oxysterols and the free TBARS either in solution or covalently attached to the oxLDL particles are partly responsible for the stimulatory effect of oxLDL on TXA2 release by platelets. The present study also showed that this enhancement of TXA2 release was due to activation of phospholipase A2 and to the increase of arachidonic acid liberation from the platelet phospholipids.
Vitamin B6 deficiency affects antioxidant defences in rat liver and heart.	We have evaluated the effects of a diet containing normal amounts of lipids and a marginal content of vitamin B6 on lipid peroxidation. Pyridoxal phosphate concentrations of plasma and liver indicated that an initial deficiency state was reached. Vitamin B6 deficiency led to peroxidative stress: TBARS production was higher in the liver (+18.6%) and even more in the heart (+61%) of deficient rats as compared with controls. Furthermore, significant stimulation of glutathione-dependent enzymes occurred in both heart and liver of deficient rats: glutathione peroxidase activity increased in heart (+144%) and liver (+505%); glutathione reductase increased in heart (+54.9%) and liver (+15.5%). No difference in the total glutathione content of the organs of the two groups was observed. The reduced glutathione/oxidized glutathione ratio was significantly lower in deficient rats. Although the activity of glutathione-dependent enzymes was significantly greater in deficient rats than in controls, this stimulation was only partially able to counteract the peroxidative damage due to vitamin B6 deficiency.
Antioxidant activity of aminoethylcysteine ketimine decarboxylated dimer on copper-induced LDL oxidation.	Aminoethylcysteine ketimine decarboxylated dimer (AECK-DD), a member of a family of natural cyclic sulfur-containing aminoacids, recently detected in biological samples, protects low density lipoprotein (LDL) against copper-mediated oxidation, as assessed by monitoring the kinetics of conjugated diene formation, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances production and LDL-tryptophan fluorescence quenching. Moreover, AECK-DD exerts a protective effect also against metal-independent, peroxyl radical-induced lipoprotein oxidation. It is of note that the concentrations exerting a protective effect against LDL oxidation are similar to those found in biological samples.
Increased oxidative stress in rat liver and pancreas during progression of streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	1. Oxygen free radicals have been suggested to be a contributory factor in complications of diabetes mellitus. There are many reports indicating the changes in parameters of oxidative stress in diabetes mellitus. In this study we aimed to identify whether oxidative stress occurs in the liver and pancreas in the initial stages of development of diabetes. 2. We therefore investigated the lipid peroxide level (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, TBARS) and activities of antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase] in liver and pancreas of control and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats at various stages of development of diabetes. 3. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two groups: group I, control (n = 42) and group II, diabetic (n = 42). Each group was further subdivided into seven groups consisting of six rats each. Rats in these subgroups were studied at weekly intervals (0 to 6 weeks). Plasma glucose levels, TBARS levels and activities of antioxidant enzymes were measured in liver and pancreas at various time intervals. 4. There was a significant (P < 0.05) and progressive increase in TBARS levels of liver and pancreas in the diabetic group. Total SOD and Cu-Zn-SOD activity increased (P < 0.05) with progression of diabetes while Mn-SOD activity showed no significant change in either tissue. Catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities increased significantly (P < 0.05) in liver and pancreas. 5. Immunohistochemical study of pancreatic islet revealed a decrease in the expression of insulin with progression of diabetes. However, glucagon and somatostatin showed an increase in immunoreactivity and a difference in their distribution pattern. 6. The findings of the present study suggest that oxidative stress starts at early onset of diabetes mellitus and increases progressively. In conclusion, the structural damage to these tissues or complications of diabetes mellitus may be due to oxidative stress.
Inhibitory effects of ascorbic acid on dopamine uptake by rat striatal synaptosomes: relationship to lipid peroxidation and oxidation of protein sulfhydryl groups.	Ascorbic acid is frequently added in the incubation medium to prevent oxidation of dopamine (DA) during uptake assays. However, a preliminary study showed that the presence of ascorbic acid induced a decrease of DA uptake after prolonged incubation. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanism underlying ascorbic acid-induced alterations of DA uptake in rat striatal synaptosomes. In this context, the effects of physiological concentrations of ascorbic acid (100-500 microM) on DA uptake and Na+/K+ ATPase activity (which is essential for DA transporter function) were assessed in synaptosomes before and after incubation at 37 degrees C. The capacity of synaptosomes to take up DA was significantly decreased after incubation owing to a reduction in DA transporters (but with no modification of their affinity for DA). This partial inhibition was associated with a decrease of Na+/K+ ATPase activity, a production of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and malonaldehyde (MDA), and a loss of sulfhydryl group content. Addition of Trolox C to the medium prevented the reduction of DA uptake, the inhibition of Na+/K+ ATPase activity, the decrease in sulfhydryl group content and the production of TBARS and MDA. These results suggest that ascorbic acid in the presence of contaminant ferrous ions induced a decrease in functional DA transporters, probably through a lipid peroxidation process involving oxidation of sulfhydryl groups and at least in part through a decrease of Na+/K+ ATPase activity.
Comparison of protein oxidation and aldehyde formation during oxidative stress in isolated mitochondria.	Oxidative stress is known to cause oxidative protein modification and the generation of reactive aldehydes derived from lipid peroxidation. Extent and kinetics of both processes were investigated during oxidative damage of isolated rat liver mitochondria treated with iron/ascorbate. The monofunctional aldehydes 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), n-hexanal, n-pentanal, n-nonanal, n-heptanal, 2-octenal, 4-hydroxydecenal as well as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were detected. The kinetics of aldehyde generation showed a lag-phase preceding an exponential increase. In contrast, oxidative protein modification, assessed as 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) reactive protein-bound carbonyls, continuously increased without detectable lag-phase. Western blot analysis confirmed these findings but did not allow the identification of individual proteins preferentially oxidized. Protein modification by 4-HNE, determined by immunoblotting, was in parallel to the formation of this aldehyde determined by HPLC. These results suggest that protein oxidation occurs during the time of functional decline of mitochondria, i.e. in the lag-phase of lipid peroxidation. This protein modification seems not to be caused by 4-HNE.
A labile sulfur in trisulfide affects cytochrome P-450 dependent lipid peroxidation in rat liver microsomes.	The effects of trisulfide derivatives were studied on cytochrome P-450-dependent lipid peroxidation using rat liver microsomal systems. Cytochrome P-450-dependent lipid peroxidation was induced by carbon tetrachloride or tert-butylhydroperoxide and was evident by an increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS) and oxygen consumption. In these cytochrome P-450-dependent lipid peroxidation systems, pretreatment of microsome with trisulfide derivatives (cystine trisulfide and thiocyclam) significantly inhibited TBA-RS formation and oxygen consumption compared with disulfide or thiol analogs (cystine, nereistoxin, or cysteine). The labile sulfur contained in trisulfide disappeared during incubation with liver microsomes. In the CCl4-induced lipid peroxidation system, the cytochrome P-450 level and NAD(P)H-cytochrome P-450 reductase activity were significantly decreased by the addition of trisulfide derivatives. Therefore, in cytochrome P-450-dependent lipid peroxidation system, the potential effects of trisulfide appear to be mediated via enzyme inhibition. These results suggest that pretreatment of the trisulfide derivatives may affect the toxic function of exogenous xenobiotics or drugs, which are reduced by the liver enzyme cytochrome P-450 to radical species.
