Inhibition of Azotobacter vinelandii rhodanese by NO-donors.	Nitric oxide (NO) is a versatile regulatory molecule that affects enzymatic activity through chemical modification of reactive amino acid residues (e.g., Cys and Tyr) and by binding to metal centers. In the present study, the inhibitory effect of the NO-donors S-nitroso-glutathione (GSNO), (+/-)E-4-ethyl-2-[E-hydroxyimino]-5-nitro-3-hexenamide (NOR-3), and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP) on the catalytic activity of Azotobacter vinelandii rhodanese (RhdA) has been investigated. GSNO, NOR-3, and SNAP inhibit RhdA sulfurtransferase activity in a concentration- and time-dependent fashion. The absorption spectrum of the NOR-3-treated RhdA displays a maximum at 335 nm, indicating NO-mediated S-nitrosylation. RhdA inhibition by NO-donors correlates with S-nitrosothiol formation. The reducing agent dithiothreitol prevents RhdA inhibition by NO-donors, fully restores the catalytic activity, and reverts the NOR-3-induced RhdA absorption spectrum to that of the active enzyme. These results indicate that RhdA inhibition occurs via NO-mediated S-nitrosylation of the unique Cys230 catalytic residue.
The inactivation of rhodanese by nitrite and inhibition by other anions in vitro.	Cyanide detoxification in mammals occurs, in part, by sulfur transfer by rhodanese to form the less toxic thiocyanate. Thiosulfate and nitrite are often used in combination for the treatment of cyanide intoxication. This report shows that nitrite can inhibit the rate of sulfur transfer by rhodanese in vitro. Nitrate, chloride, sulfate, and acetate were also examined as inhibitors. Inhibition by nitrite appeared to be more complex than for the other anions tested. Closer examination showed that nitrite can inactivate the sulfur-free rhodanese. Our observation leads to the suggestion that, in vivo, either rhodanese is maintained in its more stable sulfur-substituted form or cellular compartmentalization prevents inactivation by nitrite.
The specificity of active-site alkylation by iodoacetic acid in the enzyme thiosulfate sulfurtransferase.	The active-site sulfhydryl group in the enzyme thiosulfate sulfurtransferase (rhodanese; thiosulfate:cyanide sulfurtransferase; EC 2.8.1.1) is alkylated rapidly by iodoacetic acid in the free enzyme form, E, with complete loss of sulfurtransferase activity. Iodoacetic acid is completely ineffective with the sulfur-substituted form of the enzyme, ES. Iodoacetamide, on the other hand, has no effect on either enzyme form. The competitive enzyme inhibitor, toluenesulfonic acid, protects against inactivation in a strictly competitive way and analysis gives an apparent binding constant for toluenesulfonic acid of 12.5 mM, which is in agreement with studies of its effect on the catalyzed reaction. These results are taken to indicate that iodoacetic acid is an affinity analog for the substrate, thiosulfate, and inactivates because it can use the specific thiosulfate binding interactions, correctly orient its reactive center and displace intraprotein interactions which appear to protect the active-site sulfhydryl group in the E form.
Cysteine 254 can cooperate with active site cysteine 247 in reactivation of 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid)-inactivated rhodanese as determined by site-directed mutagenesis.	Sulfhydryl substitution mutants of rhodanese (thiosulfate:cyanide sulfurtransferase; EC 2.8.1.1) were used to determine whether the 4 cysteine residues in the native structure could cooperate in reactions. The sulfhydryl reactivity of persulfide-containing (ES) rhodanese was not significantly changed when cysteine residues at positions 63, 254, and 263 were replaced by serine, either individually or in combination. However, the sulfhydryl reactivity of persulfide-free (E) rhodanese was enhanced when Cys-254 was mutated. One sulfhydryl group, presumably the active site Cys-247, reacted rapidly in the E forms of these proteins with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) or 4,4'-dipyridyl disulfide (4-PDS). After reaction with DTNB or 4-PDS, proteins with Cys-254 retained > 95% of their original activities as compared with Ser-254-containing proteins, which retained < 6% of their activities. Cyanide treatment could release thionitrobenzoate from rhodanese-thionitrobenzoate complexes with an approximate 1:1 stoichiometry. After this treatment, only the wild-type and C263S enzymes were fully active. Cyanide-treated rhodanese-thionitrobenzoate complexes of the C254S and C254S/C263S mutants could be fully reactivated using an exogenously added thiol, beta-mercaptoethanol. These results are consistent with the formation of a Cys-247-thiocyano derivative that is inactive but capable of being reactivated by intramolecular transfer of cyanide to Cys-254. In the absence of Cys-254, beta-mercaptoethanol can serve as the transferring sulfhydryl group.
