Heterogeneity in intratumor correlations of 18F-FDG, 18F-FLT, and 61Cu-ATSM PET in canine sinonasal tumors.	Intratumor heterogeneity in biologic properties and in relationships between various phenotypes may present a challenge for biologically targeted therapies. Understanding the relationships between different phenotypes in individual tumor types could help inform treatment selection. The goal of this study was to characterize spatial correlations of glucose metabolism, proliferation, and hypoxia in 2 histologic types of tumors.
Cellular uptake of the antitumor agent Dp44mT occurs via a carrier/receptor-mediated mechanism.	The chelator di-2-pyridylketone 4,4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazone (Dp44mT) shows potent and selective anticancer and antimetastatic activity. However, the mechanism by which it is initially transported into cells to induce cytotoxicity is unknown. Hence, the current investigation examined the cellular uptake of ¹⁴C-Dp44mT relative to two structurally related ligands, namely the aroylhydrazone ¹⁴C-pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone (¹⁴C-PIH) and the thiosemicarbazone (¹⁴C-2-benzoylpyridine 4-ethyl-3-thiosemicarbazone (¹⁴C-Bp4eT). In marked contrast to the cellular uptake of ¹⁴C-PIH and ¹⁴C-Bp4eT, which were linear as a function of concentration, ¹⁴C-Dp44mT uptake was saturable using SK-N-MC neuroepithelioma cells (Bmax, 4.28 × 10⁷ molecules of chelator/cell; and Kd, 2.45 μM). Together with the fact that ¹⁴C-Dp44mT uptake was temperature-dependent and significantly (P < 0.01) decreased by competing unlabeled Dp44mT, these observations indicated a saturable transport mechanism consistent with carrier/receptor-mediated transport. Other unlabeled ligands that shared the saturated N4 structural moiety with Dp44mT significantly (P < 0.01) inhibited ¹⁴C-Dp44mT uptake, illustrating its importance for carrier/receptor recognition. Nevertheless, unlabeled Dp44mT most markedly decreased (¹⁴C-Dp44mT uptake, demonstrating that the putative carrier/receptor shows high selectivity for Dp44mT. Interestingly, in contrast to ¹⁴C-Dp44mT, uptake of its Fe complex [Fe(¹⁴C-Dp44mT)₂] was not saturable as a function of concentration and was much greater than the ligand alone, indicating an alternate mode of transport. Studies examining the tissue distribution of ¹⁴C-Dp44mT injected intravenously into a mouse tumor model demonstrated the ¹⁴C label was primarily identified in the excretory system. Collectively, these findings examining the mechanism of Dp44mT uptake and its distribution and excretion have clinical implications for its bioavailability and uptake in vivo.
Search for 99mTc labeled DTS bifunctional radiopharmaceutical: role of functional groups in myocardial accumulation.	Development of 99mTc-bifunctional radiopharmaceutical (BR) is attracting the interest of various research groups. In the present paper, various molecules containing a neutral 99mTc-dithiosemicarbazone (DTS) structure as the technetium chelating site, along with various functional groups (amino, carboxyl or isobutyl group with diverse charge) are tested for their chemical or biological functions. The study on the effect of those functional groups is carried out in vitro and in vivo. The validity of introducing an amino group along with the technetium chelating site DTS for myocardial accumulation is discussed.
Cu-pyruvaldehyde-bis(N4-methylthiosemicarbazone) (Cu-PTSM), a metal complex with selective NADH-dependent reduction by complex I in brain mitochondria: a potential radiopharmaceutical for mitochondria-functional imaging with positron emission tomography (PET).	The reductive retention mechanism of copper(II)-pyruvaldehyde-bis (N4-methylthiosemicarbazone) (Cu-PTSM), a generator-produced positron-emitting 62Cu-labeled radiopharmaceutical, was studied with non-radioactive and radioactive copper. Changes in the chemical form of Cu-PTSM were detected by electron spin resonance spectrometry (ESR) with cold copper. The effects of electron transport chain inhibitors on the reduction of Cu-PTSM were also examined. Rotenone and antimycin A activated the reduction of Cu-PTSM in the brain mitochondria by 1.6- and 1.4-fold, respectively, compared with untreated controls, while thenoyltrifluoroacetone (TTFA) had no effect on the reduction. These results were confirmed with radioactive copper. Furthermore, this reduction of Cu-PTSM was dependent on the protein concentration of mouse brain submitochondrial particle (SMP) with 1 mM NADH (0 mg-protein/ml: 1.8 +/- 2.5%, 8 mg-protein/ml: 69.0 +/- 5.5%, each value was % of reduced Cu). Similarly, this reduction depended on NADH concentration at a fixed concentration of SMP (8 mg-protein/ml). These results indicated that the electron transport chain, especially complex I, participated in the reduction of Cu-PTSM in brain mitochondria, and this suggested that Cu-PTSM has the potential to act as a functional imaging agent for diagnosis of the electron transport chain.
An early stage mechanism of the age-associated mitochondrial dysfunction in the brain of SAMP8 mice; an age-associated neurodegeneration animal model.	In order to characterize the early stage of mitochondrial dysfunction, we investigated the redox state and oxidative phosphorylation of the brain mitochondria from 2-month-old Senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM)P8 and SAMR1 mice; SAMP8 mice exhibit various signs of age-associated neurodegeneration and rapid mitochondrial dysfunction, although SAMR1 mice do not. The redox state was estimated as the reduction rate of Cu-pyruvaldehyde-bis (N4-methylthiosemicarbazone) (Cu-PTSM), the reduction of which is closely related to the electron leakage from the mitochondrial electron transport system in the brain, using electron spin resonance spectrometry (ESRS). The oxidative phosphorylation was measured polarographically. The SAMP8 mouse brain mitochondria demonstrated higher redox state and a higher activity of mitochondrial respiration with lower respiration control ratio than the mitochondria of SAMR1 mouse brains. This indicates that an inefficient hyperactive state can exist in the mitochondrial electron transport system before the age-associated mitochondrial dysfunction develops.
