Genetics of Parkinson's disease.	Over the past few years, several genes for monogenically inherited forms of Parkinson's disease (PD) have been mapped and/or cloned. In a small number of families with autosomal dominant inheritance and typical Lewy-body pathology, mutations have been identified in the gene for alpha-synuclein. Aggregation of this protein in Lewy-bodies may be a crucial step in the molecular pathogenesis of familial and sporadic PD. On the other hand, mutations in the parkin gene cause autosomal recessive parkinsonism of early onset. In this form of PD, nigral degeneration is not accompanied by Lewy-body formation. Parkin-mutations appear to be a common cause of PD in patients with very early onset. Parkin has been implicated in the cellular protein degradation pathways, as it has been shown that it functions as a ubiquitin ligase. The potential importance of this pathway is also highlighted by the finding of a mutation in the gene for ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 in another small family with PD. Other loci have been mapped to chromosome 2p and 4p, respectively, in a small number of families with dominantly inherited PD, but those genes have not yet been identified. These findings prove that there are several genetically distinct forms of PD that can be caused by mutations in single genes. On the other hand, there is at present no direct evidence that any of these genes have a direct role in the aetiology of the common sporadic form of PD. Epidemiological, case control, and twin studies, although supporting a genetic contribution to the development of PD, all suggest a clear familial clustering only in a minority of cases. It is therefore widely believed that a combination of interacting genetic and environmental causes may be responsible in this majority of PD-cases. However, studies of gene-environment interactions have not yet produced any convincing results. Nevertheless, the elucidation of the molecular sequence of events leading to nigral degeneration in clearly inherited cases is likely to shed light also on the molecular pathogenesis of the common sporadic form of this disorder.
Differential expression of fatty acid synthase genes, Acl, Fat and Kas, in Capsicum fruit.	The biosynthesis of capsaicinoids in the placenta of chilli fruit is modelled to require components of the fatty acid synthase (FAS) complex. Three candidate genes for subunits in this complex, Kas, Acl, and Fat, isolated based on differential expression, were characterized. Transcription of these three genes was placental-specific and RNA abundance was positively correlated with degree of pungency. Kas and Acl were mapped to linkage group 1 and Fat to linkage group 6. None of the genes is linked to the pungency locus, C, on linkage group 2. KAS accumulation was positively correlated with pungency. Western blots of placental extracts and histological sections both demonstrated that the accumulation of this enzyme was correlated with fruit pungency and KAS was immunolocalized to the expected cell layer, the placental epidermis. Enzyme activity of the recombinant form of the placental-specific KAS was confirmed using crude cell extracts. These FAS components are fruit-specific members of their respective gene families. These genes are predicted to be associated with Capsicum fruit traits, for example, capsaicinoid biosynthesis or fatty acid biosynthesis necessary for placental development.
The cast of molecular characters in Parkinson's disease: felons, conspirators, and suspects.	Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopamine neurons and the accumulation of Lewy bodies and neurites. Recent advances indicate that PD is due in some individuals to genetic mutations in alpha-synuclein, parkin, and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1). All three PD-linked gene products are related directly or indirectly to the functioning of the cellular ubiquitin proteasomal system (UPS), suggesting that UPS dysfunction may be important in PD pathogenesis. Indeed, emerging evidence indicates that derangements of the UPS may be one of the underlying mechanisms of PD pathogenesis. The function of parkin as an ubiquitin protein ligase positions it as an important player in both familial and idiopathic PD. We recently demonstrated that parkin mediates a nondegradative form of ubiquitination on synphilin-1 that could contribute to synphilin-1's aggregation in PD. Our results implicate parkin involvement in the formation of Lewy bodies associated with sporadic PD. This review discusses the role of the UPS, as well as the modus operandi of the three PD candidate felons (alpha-synuclein, parkin, and UCHL1) along with their conspirators in bringing about dopaminergic cell death in PD.
pdf1, a palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 Ortholog in Schizosaccharomyces pombe: a yeast model of infantile Batten disease.	Infantile Batten disease is a severe neurodegenerative storage disorder caused by mutations in the human PPT1 (palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1) gene, which encodes a lysosomal hydrolase that removes fatty acids from lipid-modified proteins. PPT1 has orthologs in many species, including lower organisms and plants, but not in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe contains a previously uncharacterized open reading frame (SPBC530.12c) that encodes the S. pombe Ppt1p ortholog fused in frame to a second enzyme that is highly similar to a previously cloned mouse dolichol pyrophosphatase (Dolpp1p). In the present study, we characterized this interesting gene (designated here as pdf1, for palmitoyl protein thioesterase-dolichol pyrophosphate phosphatase fusion 1) through deletion of the open reading frame and complementation by plasmids bearing mutations in various regions of the pdf1 sequence. Strains bearing a deletion of the entire pdf1 open reading frame are nonviable and are rescued by a pdf1 expression plasmid. Inactivating mutations in the Dolpp1p domain do not rescue the lethality, whereas mutations in the Ppt1p domain result in cells that are viable but abnormally sensitive to sodium orthovanadate and elevated extracellular pH. The latter phenotypes have been previously associated with class C and class D vacuolar protein sorting (vps) mutants and vacuolar membrane H(+)-ATPase (vma) mutants in S. cerevisiae. Importantly, the Ppt1p-deficient phenotype is complemented by the human PPT1 gene. These results indicate that the function of PPT1 has been widely conserved throughout evolution and that S. pombe may serve as a genetically tractable model for the study of human infantile Batten disease.
Mice with Ppt1Deltaex4 mutation replicate the INCL phenotype and show an inflammation-associated loss of interneurons.	Infantile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis (INCL) results from mutations in the palmitoyl protein thioesterase (PPT1, CLN1) gene and is characterized by dramatic death of cortical neurons. We generated Ppt1Deltaex4 mice by a targeted deletion of exon 4 of the mouse Ppt1 gene. Similar to the clinical phenotype, the homozygous mutants show loss of vision from the age of 8 weeks, seizures after 4 months and paralysis of hind limbs at the age of 5 months. Autopsy revealed a dramatic loss of brain mass and histopathology demonstrated accumulation of autofluorescent granular osmiophilic deposits (GRODS), both characteristic of INCL. At 6 months, the homozygous Ppt1Deltaex4 mice showed a prominent loss of GABAergic interneurons in several brain areas. The transcript profiles of wild-type and mutant mouse brains revealed that most prominent alterations involved parts of the immune response, implicating alterations similar to those of the aging brain and neurodegeneration. These findings make the Ppt1Deltaex4 mouse an interesting model for the inflammation-associated death of interneurons.
Cloning, sequencing, and characterization of Escherichia coli thioesterase II.	The gene (tesB) encoding Escherichia coli thioesterase II, a low-abundance enzyme of unknown physiological function which can hydrolyze a broad range of acyl-CoA thioesters, has been localized by transposon mutagenesis, cloned and sequenced. A two-cistron construct containing both the lac and tesB promoters was used successfully to overexpress the 286-residue polypeptide. The recombinant enzyme constituted up to 25% of the soluble proteins of E. coli and was readily purified to homogeneity as a tetramer of approximately 120,000 Da. Amino-terminal sequence analysis and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry confirmed the identity of the thioesterase and revealed that the amino-terminal formyl-methionine had been removed yielding a subunit species of average molecular mass 31,842 Da. The protein does not contain the GXSXG motif found characteristically in animal thioesterases which function as chain-terminating enzymes in fatty acid synthesis and exhibits no sequence similarity with these or any other known proteins. Activity of the recombinant enzyme was inhibited by iodoacetamide and diethylpyrocarbonate. The carboxamidomethylated residue was identified as histidine 58, and a role for this amino acid in catalysis is suggested. E. coli strains having a large deletion within the genomic tesB gene grew normally but retained a low level of thioesterase activity toward decanoyl-CoA. This residual activity indicates the presence of an additional decanoyl-CoA hydrolase in E. coli. Over-expression of the recombinant enzyme, under control of the lac promoter, did not alter the fatty acids synthesized by E. coli at any stage of cell growth and the physiological role of this enzyme remains an enigma.
Expression in Escherichia coli, purification and characterization of two mammalian thioesterases involved in fatty acid synthesis.	Thioesterase I, a constituent domain of the multifunctional fatty acid synthase, and thioesterase II, an independent monofunctional protein, catalyse the chain-terminating reaction in fatty acid synthesis de novo at long and medium chain lengths respectively. The enzymes have been cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli under the control of the temperature-sensitive lambda repressor. The recombinant proteins are full-length catalytically competent thioesterases with specificities indistinguishable from those of the natural enzymes.
Successive neuron loss in the thalamus and cortex in a mouse model of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis.	Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is caused by deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme, palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1). We have investigated the onset and progression of pathological changes in Ppt1 deficient mice (Ppt1-/-) and the development of their seizure phenotype. Surprisingly, cortical atrophy and neuron loss occurred only late in disease progression but were preceded by localized astrocytosis within individual thalamic nuclei and the progressive loss of thalamic neurons that relay different sensory modalities to the cortex. This thalamic neuron loss occurred first within the visual system and only subsequently in auditory and somatosensory relay nuclei or the inhibitory reticular thalamic nucleus. The loss of granule neurons and GABAergic interneurons followed in each corresponding cortical region, before the onset of seizure activity. These findings provide novel evidence for successive neuron loss within the thalamus and cortex in Ppt1-/- mice, revealing the thalamus as an important early focus of INCL pathogenesis.
Characterization of the Cephalosporium acremonium pcbAB gene encoding alpha-aminoadipyl-cysteinyl-valine synthetase, a large multidomain peptide synthetase: linkage to the pcbC gene as a cluster of early cephalosporin biosynthetic genes and evidence of multiple functional domains.	A 24-kb region of Cephalosporium acremonium C10 DNA was cloned by hybridization with the pcbAB and pcbC genes of Penicillium chrysogenum. A 3.2-kb BamHI fragment of this region complemented the mutation in the structural pcbC gene of the C. acremonium N2 mutant, resulting in cephalosporin production. A functional alpha-aminoadipyl-cysteinyl-valine (ACV) synthetase was encoded by a 15.6-kb EcoRI-BamHI DNA fragment, as shown by complementation of an ACV synthetase-deficient mutant of P. chrysogenum. Two transcripts of 1.15 and 11.4 kb were found by Northern (RNA blot) hybridization with probes internal to the pcbC and pcbAB genes, respectively. An open reading frame of 11,136 bp was located upstream of the pcbC gene that matched the 11.4-kb transcript initiation and termination regions. It encoded a protein of 3,712 amino acids with a deduced Mr of 414,791. The nucleotide sequence of the gene showed 62.9% similarity to the pcbAB gene encoding the ACV synthetase of P. chrysogenum; 54.9% of the amino acids were identical in both ACV synthetases. Three highly repetitive regions occur in the deduced amino acid sequence of C. acremonium ACV synthetase. Each is similar to the three repetitive domains in the deduced sequence of P. chrysogenum ACV synthetase and also to the amino acid sequence of gramicidin synthetase I and tyrocidine synthetase I of Bacillus brevis. These regions probably correspond to amino acid activating domains in the ACV synthetase protein. In addition, a thioesterase domain was present in the ACV synthetases of both fungi. A similarity has been found between the domains existing in multienzyme nonribosomal peptide synthetases and polyketide and fatty acid synthetases. The pcbAB gene is linked to the pcbC gene, forming a cluster of early cephalosporin-biosynthetic genes.
Mutations in the gene encoding 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase results in progressive infantile neurodegeneration.	Only a single patient with 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency has been described in the literature, and the molecular basis of this inborn error of valine catabolism has remained unknown until now. Here, we present a second patient with 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency, who was identified through blood spot acylcarnitine analysis showing persistently increased levels of hydroxy-C(4)-carnitine. Both patients manifested hypotonia, poor feeding, motor delay, and subsequent neurological regression in infancy. Additional features in the newly identified patient included episodes of ketoacidosis and Leigh-like changes in the basal ganglia on a magnetic resonance imaging scan. In cultured skin fibroblasts from both patients, the 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase activity was deficient, and virtually no 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase protein could be detected by western blotting. Molecular analysis in both patients uncovered mutations in the HIBCH gene, including one missense mutation in a conserved part of the protein and two mutations affecting splicing. A carefully interpreted acylcarnitine profile will allow more patients with 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency to be diagnosed.
Production of lysophosphatidylcholine by cPLA2 in the brain of mice lacking PPT1 is a signal for phagocyte infiltration.	In the majority of neurodegenerative storage disorders, neuronal death in the brain is followed by infiltration of phagocytic cells (e.g. activated microglia, astroglia and macrophages) for the efficient removal of cell corpses. However, it is increasingly evident that these phagocytes may also cause death of adjoining viable neurons contributing to rapid progression of neurodegeneration. Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is a devastating, neurodegenerative, lysosomal storage disorder caused by inactivating mutations in the palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1) gene. PPT1 catalyzes the cleavage of thioester linkages in S-acylated (palmitoylated) proteins and its deficiency leads to abnormal accumulation of thioesterified polypeptides (ceroid) in lysosomes causing INCL pathogenesis. PPT1-knockout (PPT1-KO) mice mimic the clinical and pathological features of human INCL including rapid neuronal death by apoptosis and phagocyte infiltration. We previously reported that in PPT1-KO mice, the neurons undergo endoplasmic reticulum stress activating unfolded protein response, which mediates caspase-12 activation and apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanism(s) by which the phagocytic cells are recruited in the PPT1-KO mouse brain remains poorly understood. We report here that increased production of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), catalyzed by the activation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) in the PPT1-KO mouse brain, is a 'lipid signal' for phagocyte recruitment. We also report that an age-dependent increase in LPC levels in the PPT1-KO mouse brain positively correlates with elevated expression of the genes characteristically associated with phagocytes. We propose that increased cPLA(2)-catalyzed LPC production in the brain is at least one of the mechanisms that mediate phagocyte infiltration contributing to INCL neuropathology.
The apparent malate synthase activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is due to two paralogous enzymes, (3S)-Malyl-coenzyme A (CoA)/{beta}-methylmalyl-CoA lyase and (3S)- Malyl-CoA thioesterase.	Assimilation of acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) is an essential process in many bacteria that proceeds via the glyoxylate cycle or the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. In both assimilation strategies, one of the final products is malate that is formed by the condensation of acetyl-CoA with glyoxylate. In the glyoxylate cycle this reaction is catalyzed by malate synthase, whereas in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway the reaction is separated into two proteins: malyl-CoA lyase, a well-known enzyme catalyzing the Claisen condensation of acetyl-CoA with glyoxylate and yielding malyl-CoA, and an unidentified malyl-CoA thioesterase that hydrolyzes malyl-CoA into malate and CoA. In this study the roles of Mcl1 and Mcl2, two malyl-CoA lyase homologs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, were investigated by gene inactivation and biochemical studies. Mcl1 is a true (3S)-malyl-CoA lyase operating in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. Notably, Mcl1 is a promiscuous enzyme and catalyzes not only the condensation of acetyl-CoA and glyoxylate but also the cleavage of beta-methylmalyl-CoA into glyoxylate and propionyl-CoA during acetyl-CoA assimilation. In contrast, Mcl2 was shown to be the sought (3S)-malyl-CoA thioesterase in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, which specifically hydrolyzes (3S)-malyl-CoA but does not use beta-methylmalyl-CoA or catalyze a lyase or condensation reaction. The identification of Mcl2 as thioesterase extends the enzyme functions of malyl-CoA lyase homologs that have been known only as "Claisen condensation" enzymes so far. Mcl1 and Mcl2 are both related to malate synthase, an enzyme which catalyzes both a Claisen condensation and thioester hydrolysis reaction.
USP22 is a positive regulator of NFATc2 on promoting IL2 expression.	Nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) is an important regulator of T cell activation. However, the molecular mechanism whereby NFATc2 regulates IL2 transcription is not fully understood. In this study, we showed that ubiquitin-specific protease 22 (USP22), known as a cancer stem cell marker, specifically interacted with and deubiquitinated NFATc2. USP22 stabilized NFATc2 protein levels, which required its deubiquitinase activity. Consistent with these observations, depletion of USP22 in T cells reduced the expression of IL2, which is a cytokine that signifies T effector cell activation. Our findings thus unveil a previously uncharacterized positive regulator of NFATc2, suggesting that targeting the deubiquitinase activity of USP22 could have therapeutic benefit to control IL2 expression and T cell function. 
Activity, regulation, copy number and function in the glyoxalase system.	Molecular, catalytic and structural properties of glyoxalase pathway enzymes of many species are now known. Current research has focused on the regulation of activity and expression of Glo1 (glyoxalase I) and Glo2 (glyoxalase II) and their role in health and disease. Human GLO1 has MRE (metal-response element), IRE (insulin-response element), E2F4 (early gene 2 factor isoform 4), AP-2α (activating enhancer-binding protein 2α) and ARE (antioxidant response-element) regulatory elements and is a hotspot for copy number variation. The human Glo2 gene, HAGH (hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase), has a regulatory p53-response element. Glo1 is linked to healthy aging, obesity, diabetes and diabetic complications, chronic renal disease, cardiovascular disease, other disorders and multidrug resistance in cancer chemotherapy. Mathematical modelling of the glyoxalase pathway predicts that pharmacological levels of increased Glo1 activity markedly decrease cellular methylglyoxal and related glycation, and pharmacological Glo1 inhibition markedly increases cellular methylglyoxal and related glycation. Glo1 inducers are in development to sustain healthy aging and for treatment of vascular complications of diabetes and other disorders, and cell-permeant Glo1 inhibitors are in development for treatment of multidrug-resistant tumours, malaria and potentially pathogenic bacteria and fungi. 
Arabidopsis thaliana glyoxalase 2-1 is required during abiotic stress but is not essential under normal plant growth.	The glyoxalase pathway, which consists of the two enzymes, GLYOXALASE 1 (GLX 1) (E.C.: 4.4.1.5) and 2 (E.C.3.1.2.6), has a vital role in chemical detoxification. In Arabidopsis thaliana there are at least four different isoforms of glyoxalase 2, two of which, GLX2-1 and GLX2-4 have not been characterized in detail. Here, the functional role of Arabidopsis thaliana GLX2-1 is investigated. Glx2-1 loss-of-function mutants and plants that constitutively over-express GLX2-1 resemble wild-type plants under normal growth conditions. Insilico analysis of publicly available microarray datasets with ATTEDII, Mapman and Genevestigator indicate potential role(s) in stress response and acclimation. Results presented here demonstrate that GLX2-1 gene expression is up-regulated in wild type Arabidopsis thaliana by salt and anoxia stress, and by excess L-Threonine. Additionally, a mutation in GLX2-1 inhibits growth and survival during abiotic stresses. Metabolic profiling studies show alterations in the levels of sugars and amino acids during threonine stress in the plants. Elevated levels of polyamines, which are known stress markers, are also observed. Overall our results suggest that Arabidopsis thaliana GLX2-1 is not essential during normal plant life, but is required during specific stress conditions. 
Modification of the substrate specificity of an acyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase by protein engineering.	The plant acyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) thioesterases (TEs) are of biochemical interest because of their roles in fatty acid synthesis and their utilities in the bioengineering of plant seed oils. When the FatB1 cDNA encoding a 12:0-ACP TE (Uc FatB1) from California bay, Umbellularia californica (Uc) was expressed in Escherichia coli and in developing oilseeds of the plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus, large amounts of laurate (12:0) and small amounts of myristate (14:0) were accumulated. We have isolated a TE cDNA from camphor (Cinnamomum camphorum) (Cc) seeds that shares 92% amino acid identity with Uc FatB1. This TE, Cc FatB1, mainly hydrolyzes 14:0-ACP as shown by E. coli expression. We have investigated the roles of the N- and C-terminal regions in determining substrate specificity by constructing two chimeric enzymes, in which the N-terminal portion of one protein is fused to the C-terminal portion of the other. Our results show that the C-terminal two-thirds of the protein is critical for the specificity. By site-directed mutagenesis, we have replaced several amino acids in Uc FatB1 by using the Cc FatB1 sequence as a guide. A double mutant, which changes Met-197 to an Arg and Arg-199 to a His (M197R/R199H), turns Uc FatB1 into a 12:0/14:0 TE with equal preference for both substrates. Another mutation, T231K, by itself does not effect the specificity. However, when it is combined with the double mutant to generate a triple mutant (M197R/R199H/T231K), Uc FatB1 is converted to a 14:0-ACP TE. Expression of the double-mutant cDNA in E. coli K27, a strain deficient in fatty acid degradation, results in accumulation of similar amounts of 12:0 and 14:0. Meanwhile the E. coli expressing the triple-mutant cDNA produces predominantly 14:0 with very small amounts of 12:0. Kinetic studies indicate that both wild-type Uc FatB1 and the triple mutant have similar values of Km,app with respect to 14:0-ACP. Inhibitory studies also show that 12:0-ACP is a good competitive inhibitor with respect to 14:0-ACP in both the wild type and the triple mutant. These results imply that both 12:0- and 14:0-ACP can bind to the two proteins equally well, but in the case of the triple mutant, the hydrolysis of 12:0-ACP is severely impaired. The ability to modify TE specificity should allow the production of additional "designer oils" in genetically engineered plants.
A ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase gene on the proximal short arm of the X chromosome: implications for X-linked retinal disorders.	We report the cloning of a novel human cDNA which encodes a 690 amino acid protein with high homology to ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases. Northern blot analysis shows expression of a 3.3 kb transcript in all tissues examined, with 5- to 10-fold higher levels in retina than elsewhere. We mapped the structural gene to Xp21.2-p11.2. This gene's relatively high levels of retinal expression and recent work showing that perturbations in protein turnover and processing can lead to retinal disease make it an excellent candidate for several X-linked retinal disorders mapping within this interval. Additionally, there is evidence that members of the ubiquitin hydrolase family may play a role in oncogenesis and a locus implicated in ovarian cancer is also located within this region.
Purification and cloning of glyoxalase II from rat liver.	Glyoxalase (GLO) II, which is a component of GLO system and catalyze the conversion of S-lactoyl-glutathione to D-lactate, was purified 1488 fold from rat liver by two steps of Affigel blue and carbobenzoxyglutathione-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 29 kDa which is similar to those from other species. The sequence of N-terminal 9 amino acid residues was determined to be MGIRLLPAT. This was then used to synthesize degenerative primers. cDNA clone was isolated by first synthesizing cDNA from RNA and then PCR amplification. The sequence of cDNA clone was determined by serial sequencing analysis.
