Synthetic, spectral, thermal and antimicrobial studies on some mixed 1,3-dithia-2-stannacyclopentane derivatives with dialkyldithiocarbamates.	1,3-dithia-2-stannacyclopentane derivatives with dialkyldithiocarbamates of the types SCH(2)CH(2)SSn[S(2)CNR(2)]Cl (I) and SCH(2)CH(2)SSn[S(2)CNR(2)](2) (II) (where R = CH(3), C(2)H(5) and -CH(2)-CH(2)-) have been synthesized by the reaction of 2,2-dichloro-1,3-dithia-2-stannacyclopentane and sodium/ammonium salts of dialkyldithiocarbamates in 1:1 and 1:2 molar ratios, respectively, in anhydrous benzene. These newly synthesized derivatives have been characterized by elemental analyses (C, H, N, S and Sn), thermal [thermogravimetry (TG) and differential thermal analyses (DTA)] as well as spectral [UV, IR and multinuclear NMR ((1)H, (13)C and (119)Sn)] studies. The monodentate behaviour of the dialkyldithiocarbamate ligands was confirmed by IR and (119)Sn NMR spectral data and distorted tetrahedral structures have been suggested for both type (I) and (II) compounds. The free ligands and their tin complexes have also been screened for their antibacterial and antifungal activities. These results made it desirable to delineate a comparison between free ligands and their tin complexes. These exhibit higher antibacterial effect than some of the previously investigated antibiotics.
Synthesis, characterization, and comparative in vitro cytotoxicity studies of platinum(II), palladium(II), and gold(III) methylsarcosinedithiocarbamate complexes.	This work reports on the synthesis, characterization, and in vitro cytotoxic activity of some new platinum(II), palladium(II), and gold(III) derivatives of methylsarcosinedithiocarbamate and its S-methyl ester, to study their behavior as potential antitumor agents. The biological activity of these compounds, as determined by growth inhibition and apoptosis induction, has been investigated in both human leukemic promyelocites HL60 and human squamous cervical adenocarcinoma HeLa cell lines, and their activity has been compared to the well-known platinum-based anticancer agent cisplatin. On the basis of these experimental results, [Pd(MSDT)X]n (MSDT = methylsarcosinedithiocarbamate; X = Cl, Br) complexes show a strong dose-dependent growth inhibition of both HL60 and HeLa cells, with IC(50) values slightly higher than those recorded for cisplatin; moreover, [Au(MSDT)X(2)] activity appears significantly higher or, at least, comparable to that of the reference drug. Exposure of both cell lines to [Pd(MSDT)X]n and [Au(MSDT)X(2)] complexes induces apoptosis, as determined by an Apo2.7 assay.
Structure-based design, parallel synthesis, structure-activity relationship, and molecular modeling studies of thiocarbamates, new potent non-nucleoside HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibitor isosteres of phenethylthiazolylthiourea derivatives.	In this paper we describe our structure-based ligand design, synthetic strategy, and structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies that led to the identification of thiocarbamates (TCs), a novel class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), isosteres of phenethylthiazolylthiourea (PETT) derivatives. Assuming as a lead compound O-[2-(phthalimido)ethyl]phenylthiocarbamate 12, one of the precursors of the previously described acylthiocarbamates (Ranise, A.; et al. J. Med. Chem. 2003, 46, 768-781), two targeted solution-phase TC libraries were prepared by parallel synthesis. The lead optimization strategy led to para-substituted TCs 31, 33, 34, 39, 40, 41, 44, 45, and 50, which were active against wild-type HIV-1 in MT-4-based assays at nanomolar concentrations (EC50 range: 0.04-0.01 microM). The most potent congener 50 (EC50 = 0.01 microM) bears a methyl group at position 4 of the phthalimide moiety and a nitro group at the para position of the N-phenyl ring. Most of the TCs showed good selectivity indices, since no cytotoxic effect was detected at concentrations as high as 100 microM. TCs 31, 37, 39, 40, and 44 significantly reduced the multiplication of the Y181C mutant, but they were inactive against K103R and K103N + Y181C mutants. Nevertheless, the fold increase in resistance of 41 was not greater than that of efavirenz against the K103R mutant in enzyme assays. The docking model predictions were consistent with in vitro biological assays of the anti-HIV-1 activity of the TCs and related compounds synthesized.
1-N-Substituted thiocarbamoyl-3-phenyl-5-thienyl-2-pyrazolines: a novel cholinesterase and selective monoamine oxidase B inhibitors for the treatment of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.	Twelve 1-N-substituted thiocarbamoyl-3-phenyl-5-thienyl-2-pyrazoline derivatives were synthesized and their biological interactions with human plasma and erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butrylcholinesterase (BuChE) enzymes were assessed. Compounds 3i-3l of newly synthesized N-substituted pyrazolines, which were presented as selective and irreversible MAO-B inhibitors in our previous report, were found to inhibit human erythrocyte and plasma AChE activities selectively and non-competitively suggesting that these compounds may interact with a region close to the peripheral site of the enzyme molecule which could shift the proper positioning of the catalytic center. Compounds 3e-3h inhibited both AChE and BuChE activities of human erythrocytes, but the inhibitory potencies of these compounds towards BuChE were found to be higher than that of towards AChE. Inhibition was found to be non-competitive and reversible. These data suggested that newly synthesized N-substituted pyrazoline derivatives can be evaluated as both MAO-B and cholinesterase inhibitors which may have promising features in the treatment of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
The synthesis and antimicrobial activity of some new methyl N-arylthiocarbamates, dimethyl N-aryldithiocarbonimidates and 2-arylamino-2-imidazolines.	Methyl N-arylthiocarbamates (2a-d) and dimethyl N-aryldithiocarbonimidates (2e-i) were synthesized from the reaction of aromatic amines with carbon disulfide and methyl iodide and NaOH in various quantitative amounts. 2-Arylamino-2-imidazolines (3a-i) were prepared by heating both methyl N-arylthiocarbamates (2a-d) and dimethyl N-aryldithiocarbonimidates (2e-i) with 1,2-diaminoethane under reflux. o-chlorobenzyl derivatives of [1,3,4]-thiadiazole-2-yl substituted aminoimidazoline compounds were synthesized by treatment of [1,3,4]-thiadiazole-2-yl substituted aminoimidazolines (3h-i) with 2-benzyl chloride in basic medium and DMSO. Some of the synthesized compounds were tested in vitro for their antimicrobial activity. All of the selected compounds showed some antimicrobial activity against test microorganisms. Compounds 2f and 3f which have 1,3-benzothiazol ring exhibited a weak activity against Candida globrata.
Isothiocyanates from tosyl chloride mediated decomposition of in situ generated dithiocarbamic acid salts.	A facile and general protocol for the preparation of isothiocyanates from alkyl and aryl amines is reported. This method relies on a tosyl chloride mediated decomposition of a dithiocarbamate salt that is generated in situ by treatment of an amine with carbon disulfide and triethylamine. Utilizing this protocol, we have prepared 19-alkyl- and arylisothiocyanates in moderate to excellent yield.
Novel and efficient one-pot five- and six-component reactions for the stereoselective synthesis of highly functionalized enaminones and dithiocarbamates.	Efficient methods for stereoselective synthesis of polyfunctional (E)-enaminones and (Z)-dithiocarbamates via one-pot five- and six-component sequential Ugi/Nucleophilic addition reactions are described. High yields and high bond forming efficiency, and simple operations are the advantages of this method.
Technetium(I) carbonyl dithiocarbamates and xanthates.	Technetium(I) tetracarbonyl complexes with diethyldithiocarbamate and methylxanthate ligands [TcL(CO)(4)] (L = S(2)CNEt(2) and S(2)COMe) were prepared. Conditions required for the formation of these complexes were found. The crystal and molecular structure of the xanthate complex was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. [Tc(S(2)CNEt(2))(CO)(4)] undergoes decarbonylation both in solution and in the course of vacuum sublimation with the formation of a dimer [Tc(S(2)CNEt(2))(CO)(3)](2) whose structure was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. In donor solvents, [Tc(S(2)CNEt(2))(CO)(4)] and [Tc(S(2)COMe)(CO)(4)] undergo decarbonylation with the formation of tricarbonyl solvates [TcL(CO)(3)(Sol)]. The crystal structure of the pyridine solvate [Tc(S(2)CNEt(2))(CO)(3)(py)], chosen as an example, was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The possibility of using bidentate S-donor acidic ligands for tethering the tetracarbonyltechnetium fragment to biomolecules was examined.
Synthesis and evaluation of anti-tubercular activity of new dithiocarbamate sugar derivatives.	The present study was undertaken to optimize the anti-tubercular activity of 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-β-D-glucopyranosyl N,N-dimethyldithiocarbamate (OCT313, Glc-NAc-DMDC), a lead compound previously reported by us. Structural modifications of OCT313 included the replacements of the DMDC group at C-1 by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) and the acetyl group at C-2 by either propyl, butyl, benzyl or oleic acid groups. The antimycobacterial activities of these derivatives were evaluated against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB). Glc-NAc-pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (OCT313HK, Glc-NAc-PDTC) exhibited the most potent anti-tubercular activity with the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 6.25-12.5 μg/ml. The antibacterial activity of OCT313HK was highly specific to MTB and Mycobacterium bovis BCG, but not against Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium smegmatis, Staphylococcus aureus or Escherichia coli. Importantly, OCT313HK was also effective against MTB clinical isolates, including multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) strains. Interestingly, OCT313HK was exerted the primary bactericidal activity, and it was also exhibited the bacteriolytic activity at high concentrations. We next investigated whether the mycobacterial monooxygenase EthA, a common activator of thiocarbamide-containing anti-tubercular drugs, also activated OCT313HK. Contrary to our expectations, the anti-tubercular activity of dithiocarbamate sugar derivatives and dithiocarbamates were not dependent on ethA expression, in contrast to thiocarbamide-containing drugs. Overall, this study presents OCT313HK as a novel and potent compound against MTB, particularly promising to overcome drug resistance.
Synthesis and in vitro antitumor activity of new butenolide-containing dithiocarbamates.	Three series of butenolide-containing dithiocarbamates were designed and synthesized. Their anti-tumor activity in vitro was evaluated. Among them compound I-14 exhibited broad spectrum anti-cancer activity against five human cancer cell lines with IC(50) <30 μM. Structure-activity relationship analysis showed that the introduction of dithiocarbamate side chains on the C-3 position of butenolide was crucial for anti-tumor activity.
Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of a novel class of dithiocarbamic acid esters as anticancer agent.	Based on a novel lead compound 4-methylpiperazine-1-carbodithioic acid 3-cyano-3,3-diphenylpropyl ester 1, the systematic structural modification was carried out. All the synthesized compounds were evaluated for their in-vitro anticancer activities on four to six different cell lines at three different concentrations. Most of the tested compounds could selectively inhibit the growth of HL-60 and Bel-7402 cell lines at a medium concentration. Four compounds (3f, 3g, 3n, and 5) were selected for the IC(50) test, and the results revealed that three compounds (3g, 3n, and 5) showed almost the same or a slightly weaker activity than compound 1 against HL-60, and three compounds (3f, 3g, and 3n) showed >2-fold higher potency than compound 1 against Bel-7402. The in-vivo efficacy of 3n · HCl was evaluated with transplanted hepatocyte carcinoma 22 as an in-vivo test model. It was found that 3n · HCl could inhibit significantly the growth of tumor, and that this effect was dose-dependent. Meanwhile, the compound 3n · HCl showed low toxicity compared with compound 1 · HCl as evidenced by the little body-weight loss. These results confirmed that compound 3n · HCl is more potent than the lead compound 1 · HCl. Preliminary structure-activity relationships indicated that: a) Both nitrile group and the cyclic amine containing at least two nitrogens were indispensable moieties to keep the activity; b) substitution of the piperazine ring is unfavorable for the improvement of activity; c) the suitable linker joining the piperazinyl dithiocarboxyl and diphenylacetonitril group should be ethylene; d) a non-coplanar arrangement of the two benzene rings appears to be essential for activity.
A mechanism-based potent sirtuin inhibitor containing Nε-thiocarbamoyl-lysine (TuAcK).	In the current study, we have identified N(ε)-thiocarbamoyl-lysine (TuAcK) as a general sirtuin inhibitory warhead which was shown to be able to confer potent sirtuin inhibition. This inhibition was also shown to be mechanism-based in that the TuAck residue was able to be processed by a sirtuin enzyme with the formation of a stalled S-alkylamidate intermediate.
Synthesis of both ionic species of ammonium dithiocarbamate derived cholic acid moieties.	The reaction of 3-aminopropylamide of cholic acid with CS₂ produced a bile acid derivative of dithiocarbamic acid which further formed an ammonium salt with another molecule of 3-aminopropylamide of cholic acid. The cationic 3-ammonium propylamide of cholic acid did not react further with CS₂ and the formed salt was stable in the reaction mixture, even when excess CS₂ was used. When the reaction was carried out in the presence of aqueous sodium hydroxide, only the bile acid derivative of sodium dithiocarbamate was formed. The dithiocarbamate derivatives were characterized by ¹H- and ¹³C-NMR spectroscopy and ESI-TOF mass spectrometry.
Structure-based drug discovery of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors.	Inhibition of the metalloenzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA; EC 4.2.1.1) has pharmacologic applications in the field of anti-glaucoma, anti-convulsant and anti-cancer agents. But recently, it has also emerged that these enzymes have the potential for designing anti-infective drugs (anti-fungal and anti-bacterial agents) with a novel mechanism of action. Sulphonamides and their isosteres (sulphamates/sulphamides) constitute the main class of CA inhibitors (CAIs), which bind to the metal ion from the enzyme active site. Recently, the dithiocarbamates (DTCs), possessing a similar mechanism of action, were reported as a new class of inhibitors. These types of CAIs will be discussed in detail in this review. Novel drug design strategies have been reported ultimately based on the tail approach for obtaining sulphonamides/DTCs, which exploit more external binding regions within the enzyme active site (in addition to coordination to the metal ion), leading thus to isoform-selective compounds. Most of the promising data have been obtained by combining x-ray crystallography of enzyme-inhibitor adducts with novel synthetic approaches for generating chemical diversity. Whereas sulphonamide - NO donating hybrid drugs were reported as effective anti-glaucoma agents, most of the interesting new inhibitors were designed for inhibiting specifically the tumour-associated isoforms CA IX and XII, validated targets for imaging and treatment of hypoxic tumours. Promising compounds that inhibit CAs from bacterial and fungal pathogens, of the DTC and carboxylate types, will be also reviewed.
Unprecedented "In Water" imidazole carbonylation: paradigm shift for preparation of urea and carbamate.	The first "In Water" imidazolecarbonylation of amine is described. A one pot reaction of carbonylimidazolide in water with a nucleophile provides an efficient and general method for the preparation of urea, carbamates and thiocarbamates. Use of an anhydrous solvent and an inert atmosphere could be avoided. Product precipitate out from the reaction mixture and can be obtained in high purity by filtration, resulting in a simple and scalable method.
Design, structural and spectroscopic elucidation, and the in vitro biological activities of new diorganotin dithiocarbamates.	The reaction of 2,2-dimethoxy-N-methylethyllamine or 2-methyl-1,3-dioxolane with CS(2) in alkaline media produced two novel dithiocarbamate salts. Subsequent reactions with organotin halides yielded six new complexes: [SnMe(2){S(2)CNR(R(1))(2)}(2)] (1), [Sn(n-Bu)(2){S(2)CNR(R(1))(2)}(2)] (2), [SnPh(2){S(2)CNR(R(1))(2)}(2)] (3), [SnMe(2){S(2)CNR(R(2))(2)}(2)] (4), [Sn(n-Bu)(2){S(2)CNR(R(2))(2)}(2)] (5), [SnPh(2){S(2)CNR(R(2))(2)}(2)] (6), where R = methyl, R(1) = CH(2)CH(OMe)(2), and R(2) = 2-methyl-1,3-dioxolane. All compounds were identified in terms of infrared, (1)H and (13)C NMR, and the complexes were also characterized using (119)Sn NMR, (119)Sn Mössbauer and X-ray crystallography. The biological activity of all derivatives has been screened in terms of IC(90) and IC(50) against Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus parasiticus, Penicillium citrinum, Curvularia senegalensis, Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria monocytogenes, Bacillus cereus, Streptococcus sanguinis, Escherichia coli, Citrobacter freundii, Salmonella typhimurium, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the results correlated well with a performed study of structure-activity relationship (SAR). Complexes (3), (5) and (6) displayed the best IC(90) and IC(50) in the presence of the fungi, greater than that of miconazole, used as control drug.
One-pot synthesis of S-alkyl dithiocarbamates via the reaction of N-tosylhydrazones, carbon disulfide and amines.	A new, convenient and efficient transition metal-free synthesis of S-alkyl dithiocarbamates through one-pot reaction of N-tosylhydrazones, carbon disulfide and amines is reported. Tosylhydrazones derived from various aromatic and aliphatic ketones or aldehydes were tested and gave dithiocarbamates in good to excellent yields. The tosylhydrazones can be generated in situ without isolation, which provides a simpler one-pot method to synthesize dithiocarbamates via the reaction of carbonyl compounds, carbon disulfide and amines in the presence of 4-methylbenzenesulfonohydrazide. 
Synthesis and biological evaluation of a series of dithiocarbamates as new cholinesterase inhibitors.	In the present paper, a novel series of dithiocarbamates was synthesized via the treatment of 4-(trifluoromethyl)benzyl chloride with appropriate sodium salts of N,N-disubstituted dithiocarbamic acids. The chemical structures of the compounds were elucidated by (1) H NMR, mass spectral data, and elemental analyses. Each derivative was evaluated for its ability to inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) using a modification of Ellman's spectrophotometric method. The most potent AChE inhibitor was found as compound 2g (IC50  = 0.53 ± 0.001 µM) followed by compounds 2f (IC50  = 0.74 ± 0.001 µM) and 2j (IC50  = 0.89 ± 0.002 µM) when compared with donepezil (IC50  = 0.048 ± 0.001 µM). Compounds 2f and 2g were more effective than donepezil (IC50  = 7.88 ± 0.52 µM) on BuChE inhibition. Compounds 2f and 2g exhibited the inhibitory effect on BuChE with IC50 values of 1.39 ± 0.041 and 3.64 ± 0.072 µM, respectively. 
Synthesis and antimicrobial activity of ethyl N-aryl-S-(triphenylstannyl)isothiocarbamates.	Five ethyl N-aryl-S-(triphenylstannyl)isothiocarbamates were synthesized by the reaction of triphenyltin iodide with the appropriate ethyl N-arylthiocarbamate in the presence of triethylamine. The IR spectrum of each compound was obtained over the 4000--200-cm--1 range, and some bands were assigned. These new compounds were found to be generally better antifungal agents than the previously tested N-substituted N'-cyano-S-(triphenylstannyl)isothioureas. The new compounds were also investigated for antibacterial activity and were especially inhibitory toward Gram-positive species. Except for their lower activity toward Bacillus subtilis, their antibacterial activity was identical to the previously tested N-phenyl-N'-cyano-S-(triphenylstannyl)isothiourea.
Synthesis and structure--activity relationship of nonyl 3-acyldithiocarbazates and related compounds for uncoupling activities.	Various nonyl 3-substituted-dithiocarbazates, methyl and dimethyl derivatives of nonyl 3-benzoyldithiocarbazate, nonyl 2-substituted-dithiocarbamates, and benzaldehyde nonyldithiocarbohydrazone were synthesized and their uncoupling activities of oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria were examined. The results indicate that the presence of the thiocarbamoyl structure with the potential SH group is a requisite for uncoupling activity. The presence of a C=O group and a hydrophobic aromatic ring significantly increases the uncoupling activity.
Synthesis, transformations and tuberculostatic activity of 1-(N-aroylthiocarbamoyl)imidiazolidine-2-thiones.	Series of 1(N-aroylthiocarbamoyl)imidiazolidine-2-thiones and 3-aroylimino-5,6-dihydro-3H-imidazo[2,1-c](1,2,4) dithiazoles were prepared for antituberculostatic screening. Dithiobiuret was transformed into N1-disubstituted thiocarbamoyl 1-N-aroylthiocarbamoyl ethylenediamines by reacting with secondary amines or hydrazine derivatives.
