Legal representatives of the child with respect to the Act on Consent to Medical Treatment (WGBO): more representatives possible the under the new family law]	The possibilities to exercise family authority over minors have been extended drastically since 1998. This has its consequences for the doctor with respect to medical treatment. According to the Dutch act on agreement concerning medical treatment the minor up to the age of fifteen needs his tutor in deciding about medical treatment. From the age of sixteen the child decides for himself. New family law offers the doctor many more representatives of the child. Representatives may be parents, tutors of special curators. Main changes in the family law are that since 1998 the partner of a parent or of a tutor may be given family authority. Furthermore this is now also possible for a parent or tutor living together with a partner of the same sex. The central issue is that the best interests of the child always prevail and that the physician has the legal obligation to act as a good assistant. This may entail the physician's ascertaining who represents the child and who is allowed to decide and to be informed. This is not necessarily the person accompanying the child.
Ethical issues in psychological assessment in school settings.	It is especially important for psychologists providing assessment and testing services in schools to be able to recognize and negotiate the ethical challenges specific to academic settings. In this article I address ethical issues in the areas of informed consent, nondiscriminatory assessment, projective personality assessment, and computerized psychological testing. One of the most frequent ethical issues that confronts psychologists in the schools is the process of parental consent and involvement. Psychologists are also obligated to select nonbiased test instruments and use them in a way that is not racially or culturally biased. There are several factors to consider when using projective testing in a school setting, and the use of computerized psychological assessment measures raises significant ethical issues. Although concrete solutions are not always available for these complex situations, a basis for ethical decision making is presented.
No more kidding around: restructuring non-medical childhood immunization exemptions to ensure public health protection.	Professor Silverman's article examines the complex challenges faced by U.S. policymakers attempting to balance the public health protections of mandatory childhood immunization programs with the legal, religious, philosophical, and practical concerns raised by permitting non-medical exemptions under the programs. The article begins with a discussion of the history of childhood immunization programs, and continues by describing the inconsistency of enforcement of state immunization laws and exemptions. The author analyzes recent cases from New York, Wyoming, and Arkansas, and discusses how these decisions both pose threats to these programs' public health protections, while also offering insight into potential problems for other state vaccination programs. Professor Silverman concludes by advocating that states adopt an "informed refusal" approach to vaccination exemption as a way of improving immunity protections, while respecting the autonomy rights of those who wish to opt out of the program.
Patient incompetence and substitute decision-making: an analysis of the role of the health care professional in Dutch law.	In any jurisdiction that takes patient autonomy and patient rights seriously, patient competence is a pivotal concept. Competence, which should be distinguished from criminal responsibility and legal capacity, can be defined as the ability to exercise rights, more in particular the ability to exercise one's right to give or refuse informed consent. It depends upon a patient's competence whether or not this patient has the final say in a health care decision and whether or not the patient can legitimately be subjected to compulsory interventions in that context. These possibly far reaching consequences explain why competence is the topic of a growing amount of legal regulation and why policy attempts are made at operationalising the concept in workable criteria. Although agreed upon criteria for competence do not exist, there is consensus about some preconditions of competence assessment. Two kinds of models of substitute decision-making for incompetent patients are available, i.e. best interests models and representational models. The Dutch Contract of medical treatment Act is treated as an example of the latter. It is shown that in the Dutch model, health care professionals are not at the mercy of patient representatives. On the contrary, health care professionals are supposed to judge their patients' subjective interests and may eventually overrule the representatives. A public debate ought to take place about the basis for this authority.
Defining, aligning, or declining do not resuscitate during surgery.	A Professor A. Droit, 93 years of age, formerly your college ethics teacher, developed a painful ischemic foot from distal aortic blockage. A daughter, who is a nurse, brought him to the hospital. He has multiple comorbidities, including leukemia for which he is getting chemotherapy. He agrees to surgery but hands you a completed do not resuscitate (DNR) form and insists it be honored throughout his care. As the operative wound is being closed, he has a slow ventricular tachycardia, which does not respond to intravenous therapy. You should: 
