Central cardiovascular responses induced by interleukin 1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha infused into nucleus tractus solitarii, nucleus parabrachialis medialis and third cerebral ventricle of normotensive rats.	The effect of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha infused into nucleus tractus solitari (NTS), nucleus parabrachialis medialis (NPBmed) and third cerebral ventricle of normotensive rats on blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) was investigated. Microinfusion of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha into the third cerebral ventricle and NPBmed of normotensive rats produced a dose-dependent hypotensive and bradycardic response. A similar cardiovascular response was produced by infusion of IL1 beta into NTS but not by TNF alpha. When rats were pre-treated with Escherichia coli lipopolisaccharide (LPS), an enhancement of cardiovascular response elicited by IL-1 beta and TNF alpha was found. Thus, IL-1 beta and TNF alpha produce cardiovascular responses when infused into specific areas of the CNS. This effect is potentiated by LPS and this may explain the alteration in cardiovascular regulation which can be observed in diseases in which an excess of circulating endotoxins and cytokines may occur.
Effect of age on the duration and extent of amyloid plaque reduction and microglial activation after injection of anti-Abeta antibody into the third ventricle of TgCRND8 mice.	We have previously shown that anti beta-amyloid (Abeta) antibody injected into the third ventricle of mice is distributed throughout the brain within 24 hr and is completely washed out of brain within 36 hr after injection and that, in Tg2576 animals, a single injection of antibody reduces cerebral Abeta and restores presynaptic deficits 1 month after injection without producing hemorrhage or inflammation at an early plaque stage. Here we report the effects of a single ICV injection of anti-Abeta antibody on cerebral levels of immunoreactive Abeta and of microglial activation measured by immunoreactive interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) at 1, 4, and 8 weeks after injections in TgCRND8 mice at two ages, 2 months (sparse plaques) and 8 months (abundant plaques). The data show that parenchymal amyloid accumulates before cerebral microvascular amyloid and that a single ICV injection reduces only parenchymal amyloid by about 70%, without affecting vascular amyloid, and reduces microglial activation by 46-60% at 1 week after injection. The reappearance of plaques after antibody injection takes 4-8 weeks, whereas plaque-associated focal microglial activation begins increasing between 1 and 4 weeks, suggesting that accumulation of nonfibrillar oligomeric Abeta may account for the earlier onset of microglial activation. No perivascular hemorrhage or inflammation was observed. These results suggest that periodic intraventricular administration of anti-Abeta is a potentially useful method for rapid reduction of both preexisting amyloid load and associated inflammation, providing a window of 4 weeks' duration for possible pharmacological cotreatment(s) to prevent de novo Abeta formation. This ICV method of passive immunization may be safer than active immunization, which has been known to produce encephalitis, or systemic passive immunization, which exposes amyloid-laden cerebral microvasculature to high levels of antibody in the blood and the potential of perivascular hemorrhages.
Anteroventral third ventricular N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but not metabotropic glutamate receptors are involved in hemorrhagic AVP secretion.	This study aimed to investigate the roles of glutamate (Glu) receptors in the anteroventral third ventricular region (AV3V), a pivotal area for water, cardiovascular and neuroendocrine regulations, in causing vasopressin (AVP) secretion and other phenomena in response to bleeding. The effects of intracerebral infusions of MK-801 [a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist] or a metabotropic Glu receptor antagonist (MCPG) on plasma levels of AVP, electrolytes, osmolality and glucose, heart rate and arterial pressure following AV3V administration with NMDA or bleeding stimuli were analyzed in conscious rats. NMDA provoked prominent rises of plasma AVP, osmolality, glucose and arterial pressure, without changing plasma electrolytes or heart rate significantly. All the effects of NMDA were blocked by pre-administration of MK-801 into the same loci. Removal through a femoral arterial line of 10 ml blood per kg body weight did not affect arterial pressure or other variables significantly, although plasma AVP and angiotensin II (ANG II) tended to increase. When bleeding was repeated after 10 min (B2), arterial pressure dropped promptly, and plasma AVP, ANG II, osmolality and glucose augmented remarkably. MK-801 applied 35 min preceding B2, to loci such as the median preoptic nucleus, periventricular nucleus and medial preoptic area inhibited the response of plasma AVP significantly, without exerting any effects on other variables. When MK-801 was administered intracerebroventricularly, or when MCPG was infused into the AV3V, significant alterations did not occur in B2-evoked responses of plasma AVP nor in those of the other variables. In rats given sham bleeding after AV3V infusions of MK-801 or MCPG or intracerebroventricular applications of MK-801, all monitored variables roughly remained at stable levels throughout the experiments. We conclude that NMDA receptors in AV3V, but not metabotropic Glu receptors, may facilitate AVP secretion in hypotensive hypovolemia.
