Repeatability of FDG quantification in tumor imaging: averaged SUVs are superior to SUVmax.	Reliable 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake quantification is crucial for cancer treatment monitoring. While interobserver variability has been found to be lower for a maximum standard uptake value (SUV)max than for an averaged SUV (SUVmean), the repeatability has not been investigated yet. In this study, we determined the repeatability of SUV values in two sequential measurements 5 min apart.
REG1A expression status suggests chemosensitivity among advanced thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients treated with esophagectomy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy.	Regenerating gene 1A (REG1A) plays an important role in tissue regeneration and in cell proliferation in the mucous membrane of the gastrointestinal tract. We previously reported that the positive expression status of REG1A was predictive of chemoradiosensitivity in patients treated with preoperative chemoradiotherapy before esophagectomy or with definitive chemoradiotherapy. To further confirm the utility of REG1A as a chemosensitivity marker, we carried out an additional retrospective clinical study aimed at determining whether REG1A is a reliable chemosensitivity marker in patients treated with esophagectomy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy.
Immunohistochemical and affinity electrophoretic studies of alpha-fetoprotein of a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma in the intrathoracic space.	Immunohistochemical and affinity electrophoretic studies were carried out on alpha-fetoprotein components produced by a tumor of hepatocellular origin located on the chest wall and originating from the intrathoracic and extrapleural space tissue. The major components of alpha-fetoprotein were consistent with those produced by the hepatocellular carcinoma. Accordingly, this seems to be the first reported case of hepatocellular carcinoma that may have developed from accessory liver tissue seemingly isolated from the liver and located in the intrathoracic space.
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma: further evidence for a distinct neoplasm originating from large granular lymphocytes of T/NK phenotype.	We report the case of a 20 year-old caucasian woman who presented a primary subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma (SPTCL) as an invasive tumor of the chest wall. Herein, the neoplastic cells were found to express a CD3+CD8+ phenotype but also displayed variably the natural killer (NK)-associated antigens CD56 and CD57 as well as granzyme B. On cytological examination, these cells showed a large granular lymphocyte (LGL)-like morphology with presence of azurophilic granules in their cytoplasm. Electron dense and membrane bound granules like those found in cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) were also demonstrated by electron microscopy. Neither rearrangement of the T-cell receptor subunits nor Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome was observed at the molecular level. The LGL-like features of the neoplastic cells found in this case and the presence of NK-associated antigens provide additional support to the cytotoxic derivation of most SPTCL.
Atypical and malignant solitary fibrous tumors in extrathoracic locations: evidence of their comparability to intra-thoracic tumors.	Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT), first described as a pleural lesion, has been reported at numerous extrathoracic sites over the past 10 years. About 10% to 15% of intrathoracic SFTs are histologically or clinically malignant, but such cases have very rarely been described at other locations. Among 92 cases of extrathoracic SFT in our files, we identified 10 that either had recurred (2 cases) or had a least one atypical histologic feature (8 cases). The ten tumors occurred in five men and five women, 32 to 81 years old (median 56), measured 1.9 cm to 20 cm (median 11.5 cm), and were located in the abdomen/pelvis (4 cases), retroperitoneum (3 cases), groin, trunk, and upper arm. Nuclear atypia (8 cases), markedly increased cellularity (6 cases), areas of necrosis (4 cases), and greater than 4 mitoses/10 HPFs (3 cases) were seen in addition to the typical histologic features of SFT. Six tumors had at least two of these atypical histologic features. Nine cases were positive for CD34, six were positive for O-13, and one was focally positive for smooth muscle actin. Eight were excised completely. Subsequent follow-up revealed tumor relapse in eight cases (follow up 6-180 months, median 24). Four patients had local recurrence at 12 to 168 months. Distant metastasis developed at 1 to 6 years in five cases with spread to lung (2 cases), liver (4 cases), and bone. Metastasis or local recurrence developed within 2 years in five patients. To date, no patient has died of their tumor. These findings demonstrate that nuclear atypia, hypercellularity, greater than 4 mitoses/10 HPFs, and necrosis may be seen in up to 10% of extrathoracic SFTs, and are associated with, but are not by themselves predictive of, aggressive clinical behavior. In addition, our findings confirm that the behavior of extrathoracic SFTs is unpredictable, entirely comparable to that of their better known pleural counterparts, and confirm that patients with SFTs in all locations require careful, long-term follow up. It is probably unwise to regard any such lesion as definitely benign.
