Application of extraction chromatography to the separation of thorium and uranium dissolved in a solution of high salt concentration.	Extraction chromatography with commercially available UTEVA resin (for uranium and tetravalent actinide) was applied for the separation of Th and U from control solutions prepared from a multi-element control solution and from sample solutions of solidified simulated waste. Thorium and U in control solutions with 1-5mol/dm(3) HNO(3) were extracted with UTEVA resin and recovered with a solution containing 0.1mol/dm(3) HNO(3) and 0.05mol/dm(3) oxalic acid to be separated from the other metallic elements. Extraction behavior of U in the sample solutions was similar to that in the control solutions, but extraction of Th was dependent on the concentration of HNO(3). Thorium was extracted from 5mol/dm(3) HNO(3) sample solutions but not from 1mol/dm(3) HNO(3) sample solutions. We conjecture that thorium fluoride formation interferes with extraction of Th. Addition of Al(NO(3))(3) and Fe(NO(3))(3), which have higher stability constant with fluoride ion than Th, does improve extractability of Th from 1mol/dm(3) HNO(3) sample solution.
Ethyl thiosemicarbazide intercalated organophilic calcined hydrotalcite as a potential sorbent for the removal of uranium(VI) and thorium(IV) ions from aqueous solutions.	This work was conducted to determine the practicability of using a new adsorbent 4-ethyl thiosemicarbazide intercalated, organophilic calcined hydrotalcite (ETSC-OHTC) for the removal of uranium (U(VI)), and thorium (Th(IV)) from water and wastewater. The FTIR analysis helped in realizing the involvement of nitrogen and sulphur atoms of ETSC in binding the metal ions through complex formation. Parameters like adsorbent dosage, solution pH, initial metal ions concentration, contact time and ionic strength, that influence adsorption phenomenon, were studied. The optimum pH for maximum adsorption of U(VI) and Th(IV) was found to be in the range 4.0-6.0. The contact time required for reaching equilibrium was 4 hr. The pseudo second-order kinetic model was the best fit to represent the kinetic data. Analysis of the equilibrium adsorption data using Langmuir, Freundlich and Sips models showed that the Freundlich model was well suited to describe the metal ions adsorption. The K(F) values were 25.43 and 29.11 mg/g for U(VI) and Th(IV), respectively, at 30 degrees C. The adsorbent can be regenerated effectively from U(VI) and Th(IV) loaded ones using 0.01 mol/L HCl. The new adsorbent was quite stable for many cycles, without much reduction in its adsorption capacity towards the metals.
