Tc-99m depreotide SPECT demonstrates photon-deficiency in the thoracic vertebrae after adjunct radiation therapy of lung cancer: correlation with MRI and bone scintigraphy.	Fifteen months after right lobe lobectomy with adjunctive radiation therapy for squamous cell carcinoma, a patient 53-yr-old man underwent Tc-99m depreotide chest single photon emission tomography (SPECT). In addition to two focal areas of abnormally increased uptake in the right lung, the Tc-99m depreotide SPECT showed cold areas in the middle thoracic vertebrae. Photopenic areas in the 6th and 7th thoracic vertebrae were shown on a bone scintigraphy. T1 weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine showed fatty replacement of the marrow and Schmorl's nodes involving the 5th to 11th thoracic vertebrae. The vertebrae are normally visualized in Tc-99m depreotide SPECT imaging study, and lung tumor is usually somatostatin receptor positive with demonstrable activity in the lung. Absent uptake in the vertebrae in the fatty replacement of the marrow and multiple and giant vertebral Schmorl's nodes in the correspondent vertebrae in MRI may reflect visualization of vertebrae due to Tc-99m depreotide localizing in the bone marrow. Of the three imaging modalities, MRI showed the widest areas of thoracic vertebral involvement. One should be aware that a cold lesion in the vertebrae on Tc-99m depreotide imaging study may result from irradiation and may indicate the presence of a benign lesion in the bone marrow.
Bone scintigraphy predicts the risk of spinal cord compression in hormone-refractory prostate cancer.	In prostate cancer, confirmation of metastatic involvement of the skeleton has traditionally been achieved by bone scintigraphy, although the widespread availability of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) measurements has tended to eliminate the need for this investigation. The potential of bone scintigraphy to predict skeletal-related events, particularly spinal cord compression, after the onset of hormone refractoriness has never been investigated. The aim of this study was to establish whether a new method of evaluating bone scintigraphy would offer a better predictive value for this complication of the metastatic process than is achieved with currently available grading methods. We studied 84 patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer who had undergone bone scintigraphy at the time of hormone escape. Tumour grading and parameters of tumour load (PSA and alkaline phosphatase activity) were available in all patients. The incidence of spinal cord compression was documented and all patients were followed up until death. Bone scintigraphy was evaluated by the conventional Soloway grading and by an additional analysis determining total or partial involvement of individual vertebrae. In contrast to the Soloway method, the new method was able to predict spinal cord compression at various spinal levels. Our data suggest that there is still a place for bone scintigraphy in the management of hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Recognition of the superscan in prostatic bone scintigraphy.	Widespread bone metastases can occasionally give rise to a uniform distribution of 99Tcm methylene diphosphonate resulting in a superficially normal appearance on the bone scan. The scans are recognizable by the high ratio of bone to soft tissue activity, the absence of focal lesions in the axial skeleton, and there are usually no renal images. These "superscans" can occasionally be misinterpreted as normal. An index of image quantitation related to the ratio of bone to soft tissue uptake is shown to be capable of clearly distinguishing these patients from patients in other categories. The condition is thought to be more frequently associated with prostatic carcinoma than with other aetiologies.
