Effects of pulse lung inflation on chest wall expiratory motor activity.	The effects of pulse lung inflation (LI) on expiratory muscle activity and phase duration (Te) were determined in anesthetized, spontaneously breathing dogs (n = 20). A volume syringe was used to inflate the lungs at various times during the expiratory phase. The magnitude of lung volume was assessed by the corresponding change in airway pressure (Paw; range 2-20 cmH(2)O). Electromyographic (EMG) activities were recorded from both thoracic and abdominal muscles. Parasternal muscle EMG was used to record inspiratory activity. Expiratory activity was assessed from the triangularis sterni (TS), internal intercostal (IIC), and transversus abdominis (TA) muscles. Lung inflations <7 cmH(2)O consistently inhibited TS activity but had variable effects on TA and IIC activity and expiratory duration. Lung inflations resulting in Paw values >7 cmH(2)O, however, inhibited expiratory EMG activity of each of the expiratory muscles and lengthened Te in all animals. The responses of expiratory EMG and Te were directly related to the magnitude of the lung inflation. The inhibition of expiratory motor activity was independent of the timing of pulse lung inflation during the expiratory phase. The inhibitory effects of lung inflation were eliminated by bilateral vagotomy and could be reproduced by electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. We conclude that pulse lung inflation resulting in Paw between 7 and 20 cmH(2)O produces a vagally mediated inhibition of expiratory muscle activity that is directly related to the magnitude of the inflation. Lower inflation pressures produce variable effects that are muscle specific.
Modulation of chest wall intermuscular coherence: effects of lung volume excursion and transcranial direct current stimulation.	Chest wall muscle recruitment varies as a function of the breathing task performed. However, the cortical control of the chest wall muscles during different breathing tasks is not known. We studied chest wall intermuscular coherence during various task-related lung volume excursions in 10 healthy adults (34 ± 15 yr; 2 men, 8 women) and determined if transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) could modulate chest wall intermuscular coherence during these tasks. Simultaneous assessment of regional intercostal and oblique electromyographic activity was measured while participants performed standardized tidal breathing, speech, maximum phonation, and vital capacity tasks. Lung volume and chest wall kinematics were determined using variable inductance plethysmography. We found that chest wall area of intermuscular coherence was greater during tidal and speech breathing compared with phonation and vital capacity (all P < 0.05) and between tidal breathing compared with speech breathing (P < 0.05). Anodal tDCS increased chest wall area of intermuscular coherence from 0.04 ± 0.09 prestimulation to 0.18 ± 0.19 poststimulation for vital capacity (P < 0.05). Sham tDCS and cathodal tDCS had no effect on coherence during lung volume excursions. Chest wall kinematics were not affected by tDCS. Our findings indicate that lung volume excursions about the midrange of vital capacity elicit a greater area of chest wall intermuscular coherence compared with lung volume excursions spanning the entire range of vital capacity in healthy adults. Our findings also demonstrate that brief tDCS may modulate the cortical control of the chest wall muscles in a stimulation- and lung volume excursion task-dependent manner but does not affect chest wall kinematics in healthy adults. 
