Leftsided thoracotomy for coronary artery reoperation.	3 cases of coronary reoperations are described in which a leftsided thoracotomy offered considerable advantages. This approach is recommended for certain types of reoperations on the left coronary system.
The omentum: an account of its use in the reconstruction of the chest wall.	Ten patients with lesions of the chest wall amenable to surgical therapy were reconstructed by a transposition flap of the greater omentum. Eight of these patients had been previously treated for cancer of the female breast by mastectomy and irradiation or by irradiation alone (in one instance). Of these 8, 6 had progressive ulceration of the chest wall consistent with radiation necrosis and three had residual carcinoma within the ulcer. One patient had melanoma of the chest wall still persistent after surgical resection and irradiation. Another had epidermoid carcinoma, whereas two sought breast reconstruction after successful mastectomy for cancer. In five patients the omentum was transposed directly on the pleura and lung or chest wall. In three patients prolene mesh was interposed to stabilize the chest wall. In two patients the defect attendant upon a Halsted mastectomy was ameliorated by a one-stage reconstruction using transposed omentum to cover a silastic gel prosthesis and to support an overlying skin graft. In three patients there were mild transient symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction postoperatively. In one patient delayed healing occurred because of partial separation of the omentum from the underlying irradiated pleura and in another there was partial loss of skin graft and omentum due to hematoma. A closed wound was achieved in all cases without infection.
Anaesthetic management of thoracotomy in the presence of chronic carbon dioxide retention.	A patient suffering from chronic carbon dioxide retention with persistent pneumothorax, following spontaneous rupture of an emphysematous bulla, underwent thoracotomy. The surgical and anaesthetic management are reported.
Comparative studies of various suture techniques in transthoracic esophagogastric anastomoses in dogs (author's transl)]	In 27 dogs esophagogastric anastomoses were performed in a single-layered end-on, a three-layered end-on and a double-layered inverting technique. The anastomoses were reinvestigated on the 2., 4., 7., 15. and 30. postoperative day. Suture line leakages were not observed. The inverted suture resulted in considerable anastomotic stenosis, ulceration of the mucosa, disordered and initially incomplete revascularisation, and widespread granulomatous inflammatory reaction. In contrast, the end-on technique led to almost no stenosis, ordered revascularisation, and narrow and delicate scar tissue formation while maintaining a normally layered structure. The single-layered methode was superior to the three-layered one. The best results were obtained by the extramucous technique.
The great potential of the intercostal flap for torso reconstruction.	The intercostal flap has many uses for torso reconstruction, whether employed as an island flap or a free flap. With modifications, it can be used as a sensory skin flap, or as a compound osteocutaneous flap to restore stability in a chest wall construction, or as a skin flap with a permanent blood supply to provide stable cover after excision of radiation ulcers.
Microsurgical composite tissue transplantation.	Since 1974, 69 patients with extensive defects have undergone reconstruction by microsurgical composite tissue transplantation. Using this method, donor composite tissue is isolated on its blood supply, removed to a distant recipient site, and the continuity of blood flow re-established by microvascular anastomoses. In this series, 56 patients (81%) were completely successful. There have been eight (12%) failures, primarily in the extremities. There have been five (7%) partial successes, (i.e., a microvascular flap in which a portion was lost requiring a secondary procedure such as a split thickness graft). In those patients with a severely injured lower extremity, the failure rate was the greatest. Most of these were arterial (six of seven). These failures occurred early in the series and were thought to be related to a severely damaged recipient vasculature. This problem has been circumvented by an autogenous interpositional vein graft, permitting more mobility of flap placement. In the upper extremity, all but one case were successful. Early motion was permitted, preventing joint capsular contractures and loss of function. Twenty-three cases in the head and neck region were successful (one partial success). This included two composite rib grafts to the mandible. Prolonged delays in reconstruction following extirpation of a malignancy were avoided. A rapid return to society following complete reconstruction was ensured. Nine patients presented for reconstruction of the breast and thorax following radical mastectomy. All were successfully reconstructed with this new technique except one patient. Its many advantages include immediate reconstruction without delayed procedures and no secondary deformity of the donor site. Healthy, well vascularized tissue can now be transferred to a previously irradiated area with no tissue loss. This new method offers many advantages to older methods of reconstruction. Length of hospital stay and immobilization are reduced. The total number of operative procedures required in achieving the desired result is also less, thus decreasing the cost of hospital care.
Baroreceptor control of regional haemodynamics during halothane anaesthesia in the dog.	Regional haemodynamic control by the cardiovascular baroreceptors was examined in dogs anaesthetized with 1 + MAC halothane in oxygen (1%). The open-loop relationships between carotid sinus pressure (CSP) and regional haemodynamics in the iliac, renal, mesenteric, aortic and coeliac beds were examined before vagotomy, following vagotomy and following thoracotomy. Around the carotid sinus reflex set point, the ratio of the reflex decrease in systemic arterial pressure to an increase in CSP (reflex gain) was -0.744+/-0.089 (mean+/-SEM): the latter increased to -1.275+/-0.093 following vagotomy. Reflex resistance changes were greatest in the renal bed and least in the coeliac bed, reflecting blood flow homeostasis which was well preserved in the renal bed but minimal in the coeliac bed. Thoracotomy in the dogs in which vagotomy had been performed resulted in no significant changes in the dependent variables studied. It is concluded that, in these dogs anaesthetized with 1 + MAC of halothane, baroreceptor control of regional pressure flow relationships is well preserved.
Dysphagia lusoria: anterior approach for definitive treatment.	An aberrant right subclavian artery causing symptoms is rare in adults. Several surgical approaches have been advocated. On the basis of results obtained in two patients, the authors recommended an anterior approach, either a transternal bilateral thoracotomy or a median sternotomy, that affords excellent exposure for flush ligation and division of the right subclavian artery at the aorta, and reconstruction on the ascending aorta.
Surgical correction of pectus excavatum.	It has been observed that some patients who had correction of funnel chest deformity by methods which failed to provide fixed elevation of the involved sternal segment developed progressive sagging in later years in spite of looking good at the operating table. This has led to the adoption of a new technique of double sternal support. This procedure has resulted in 35 of 37 children (94%) being classified as excellent or satisfactory. This double support was initially established in 1959 by overlapping the upper transsected sternum while maintaining elevation of the lower end with a soft tissue sling of perichondrium and intercostal muscle. Beginning in 1961, a rigid bridge of rib or stainless steel bar was substituted at the lower end of the sternum. This has provided better support and the current preference of using the steel bar has been validated in this group of patients. The few disappointments were related to removal of the bar earlier than desired, failure to excise all the protruding sternal cartilage stumps or rib graft tips and inability to cover the lateral sternal edges with pectoral muscles. If possible, the steel bar should not be removed before 12 mo. When these pitfalls were avoided, the results were almost uniformly excellent. The wisdom of excising all depressed cartilaginous segments, as advocated by Ravitch in 1949, has been substantiated. A submammary transverse incision has provided an excellent cosmetic appearance. The morbidity has been low and the mortality zero. In spite of the absence of objective evidence of cardiopulmonary dysfunction, there seems to be an almost uniform improvement in appearance and in patient activity following successful correction of the funnel chest. The latter may be as much a psychological response as a physiologic one. The low morbidity, satisfactory long term results, and general improvement in the patient's body image and outlook on life indicate the need to offer correction of the severe pectus excavatum deformity to low risk children.
Indications for thoracotomy following penetrating thoracic injury.	The treatment of penetrating thoracic injuries has been reviewed in both civilian and military series. Although most surgeons agree that closed that closed thoracostomy drainage is the initial treatment of choice, the timing of early thoracotomy and perhaps cardiorrhaphy upon patients with penetrating thoracic injuries remains controversial. The purpose of this study was to determine which patients will require immediate thoractomy or cardiorrhaphy following penetrating chest injury. Over a two-year period 190 patients with penetrating thoracic injuries were treated. Of 53 patients who required immediate thoracotomy, 31 suffered cardiac wounds. Seventy-nine patients required laparotomy for associated intra-abdominal injuries. The mortality rate was related to exsanguinating hemorrhage or postoperative intra-abdominal sepsis. Cardiopulmonary complications were rare in the absence of intra-abdominal sepsis and could not be attributed to the thoracic injury or thoracotomy. Indications for immediate cardiorrhaphy or thoracotomy are: 1) location of the entrance wound (70% in upper mediastinum); 2) blood pressure on admission less than 90; 3) initial thoracostomy blood loss greater than 800 cc; 4) radiographic evidence of retained hemothorax; and/or 5) clinical evidence of pericardial tamponade.
