En-bloc chest wall and lung resection for non-small cell lung cancer. Predictors of 60-day non-cancer related mortality.	Predictors for early mortality after isolated pulmonary resection have been identified and clear guidelines regarding fitness for surgery have been produced. However, the additional risk of en-bloc chest wall resection has not been extensively studied.
Advanced thoracoscopic procedures are facilitated by computer-aided robotic technology.	Computer (robotic) enhancement has been used to facilitate simple thoracoscopic procedures such as internal mammary artery (IMA) mobilization. This report describes the use of robotic technology in advanced thoracoscopic procedures.
Plastic reconstruction of chest wall defects and residual pleural cavities]	To compare the results of plastic reconstructions of the infected chest wall defects using either muscular, or omental flaps.
Full-thickness chest wall reconstruction using autologous tissue grafts after resection of recurrent desmoid tumor.	We report the case of a 62-year-old woman with a recurrent desmoid tumor of the chest wall who successfully underwent a full-thickness chest wall resection as well as skeletal and soft tissue reconstruction. In chest wall reconstruction, we used various kinds of autologous tissue grafts, i.e. rib, fascia lata and the transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap. Judging from the reconstructed wall's strength, shape and flexibility, as well as wound healing, it is possible to conclude that this combined procedure is feasible because benefits of the procedure outweigh the disadvantage of additional operations for harvests.
Surgery of recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities and the trunk wall: a comparison to primary sarcoma]	To evaluate the place of conservative surgery in locally recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities and the trunk wall.
Multiple synchronous intrathoracic neurilemmomas who had a past history of neurilemmoma on the abdominal wall; report of a case]	A 66-year-old female, who had received a surgery of the neurilemmoma on the abdominal wall 6 years ago, was referred to our hospital because of a chest X-ray abnormality. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed 3 tumors in the left chest wall. One tumor arised from the 7th intercostal nerve and 2 tumors from 8th nerve. These tumors were surgically removed by video-assisted thoracic surgery. These tumors are histopathologically diagnosed as neurilemmoma and have the same characteristics with previously resected abdominal wall tumor.
Surgical treatment of tuberculous abscess in the chest wall.	We reviewed surgical cases of tuberculous abscess in the chest wall and analyzed the indications and methods of surgery, results, perioperative complications, and postoperative treatment.
Extended cutaneous 'thoracoabdominal' flap for large chest wall reconstruction.	Major chest wall reconstructions are usually required after radical excision of advanced cancer stages and large radionecrosis in patients with poor general conditions. Fasciocutaneous, muscular, and musculocutaneous flaps have all been described, with the last ones being commonly considered a first choice. The authors introduce an extended pure cutaneous flap from the omolateral thoracoabdominal area that is able to cover extensive defects. The vascular supply is provided by the lateral cutaneous branches from intercostal, subcostal, and lumbar arteries. Between February 2002 and 2005, 18 female patients underwent major chest wall reconstruction with this technique. Flap dimensions ranged between 15 x 15 and 25 x 30 cm. No major complications were registered. Four flaps sustained a partial loss at the distal margin but 1 case only required further surgical debridement. The extended cutaneous "thoracoabdominal" flap proved to be a quick, single-stage procedure with a low morbidity rate, specifically indicated in patients with a poor prognosis.
Use of the extended V-Y latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flap for chest wall reconstruction in locally advanced breast cancer.	The extended V-Y latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flap described by Micali and Carramaschi provides an innovative method of closing large anterior chest defects after resection of breast cancer. The technique provides robust chest wall coverage that is able to withstand immediate postoperative radiotherapy. The aim of this article is to confirm the usefulness of the flap's design and describe modifications to the technique. The modifications to technique include: a curvilinear design that recruited more skin for closure in patients with wounds extending laterally or superiorly, routine transposition of latissimus dorsi insertion inferio-medially onto the chest wall to maximize pedicle reach, and the use of small split skin grafts or delayed primary closure if there was tension in closing. Twelve patients who underwent resection of locally advanced breast cancer had immediate chest wall reconstruction with the extended V-Y latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flap. The V to Y design of the flap's cutaneous island allowed primary closure of chest wound and donor defect. There were no instances of chest wound dehiscence. The chest wounds healed, allowing patients to undergo adjuvant radiotherapy in a mean time interval of 6 weeks after surgery.
The novel use of small intestinal submucosal matrix for chest wall reconstruction following Ewing's tumour resection.	Chest wall reconstruction following major tumour resection remains a challenging problem in the paediatric population due to the need for growth and development following the repair. Synthetic non-biodegradable grafts and materials have led to asymmetrical growth and significant functional and cosmetic compromise. The ideal graft material should be biological non-immunogenic which enables natural healing and facilitates further growth. Ewing's sarcoma is an uncommon primitive neuroectodermal tumour which rarely occurs in the ribs. However, recent improvements in management have produced a significantly improved survival; increasing the importance of chest wall reconstruction. We prospectively assessed the utilisation of Surgisis (an acellular collagen matrix) as a replacement graft in two children undergoing primary chest wall reconstruction following tumour resection. Surgisis is derived from porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS) that serves as a template for tissue reconstruction and remodeling. The graft was well tolerated; there was no herniation and it allowed normal symmetrical chest movement and growth to occur. The properties of SIS allows natural collagen growth and compares favourably with marlex mesh and other forms of chest wall reconstruction. We believe its unique properties allow it to act as a suitable framework for chest wall reconstruction allowing chest wall growth and development.
Treatment of a large defect of the chest wall in a child using a negative pressure wound dressing.	Vacuum-assisted closure(VAC) is a simple wound healing tool in plastic surgery. We report a large thoracic defect in a child, in which the VAC was used to cover an exposed polytetrafluoroethylene prosthesis. The VAC saved the prosthesis and induced complete granulation of the wound, which healed completely in five weeks.
Chest wall resection and reconstruction: analysis of 11 cases after methylmethacrylate reconstruction.	Patients with extensive resection of the chest wall, followed by reconstruction with methylmethacrylate and double prolene mesh in the form of "sandwich" prosthesis. Substitutes were assessed prospectively as chest wall defects continue to present a complicated treatment scenario for thoracic and reconstructive surgeons.
Chest wall reconstruction with two types of biodegradable polymer prostheses in dogs.	Currently, the choice of chest wall prosthesis remains a challenging problem for thoracic and reconstructive surgeons. The purpose of this study is to investigate the feasibility of newly developed biodegradable prostheses.
Autologous rib transplantation and terylene patch for repair of chest wall defect in a girl with Poland syndrome: a case report.	Poland syndrome is a constellation of anomalies including absent pectoralis muscle and rib defects, even with malformations of the upper extremity that more often affects boys than girls. This case describes a 5-year-old and 4-month-old girl diagnosed with Poland syndrome that required chest wall reconstruction. An autologous rib transplantation and terylene patch were used for repair of the chest wall defect. The girl had a satisfactory postoperative recovery. This technique was an effective method of treatment of this condition.
Biological materials in chest wall reconstruction: initial experience with the Peri-Guard Repair Patch.	This study analyses the efficacy of the bovine Peri-Guard Repair Patch for chest wall reconstruction.
Porcine dermal collagen (Permacol) for chest and abdominal wall reconstruction in thoraco-omphalopagus conjoined twin separation.	Each set of conjoined twins presents a unique challenge, which centers on the ability to separate and if necessary reconstruct shared organs and to achieve subsequent skin cover of the often very large residual defect after completion of the separation. This report describes the use of a bioprosthetic Permacol derived from porcine dermal collagen to reconstruct the chest and abdominal wall.
Materials for reconstruction and reinforcement]	The recent development of thoracic surgery has depended on the progressive advances of surgical materials. For the reconstruction of the pleura, the chest wall, the diaphragm, the pericardium and other cardiac structures, materials of high quality are indispensable, and their appropriate use is also important.
Central venous port placement: a comparison of axillary versus anterior chest wall placement.	To compare morbidity in patients with surgically implanted central venous ports that were placed in the subcutaneous tissues of the mid axillary line at the anterior border of the latissimus muscle (group A) versus the anterior chest wall (group C).
An intrathoracic scapular prolapse with hemorrhagic shock after a thoracotomy.	We herein present a case in which an emergency operation was performed for an intrathoracic hemorrhage resulting from a scapular prolapse after a thoracotomy, a rare complication of this procedure. A 59-year-old man had undergone a right upper lobectomy with an extended resection of the posterior chest wall including the second to fourth ribs due to a direct invasion by a lung cancer. On postoperative day 80, we performed an emergency operation as the patient had gone into shock due to an intrathoracic hemorrhage with a right scapular prolapse. The scapula protruded through the enlarged fourth intercostal space. The prolapsed scapula was reduced and the defect in the chest wall was covered with Marlex mesh.
Bilateral superior epigastric pedicle perforator flaps for total chest wall coverage.	The superior epigastric artery (SEA), a terminal branch of the internal mammary artery, is analogous to the deep inferior epigastric artery (DIEA) in that it supplies a large number of perforators that are clustered together. This allows tissue from the superior abdomen to be used as a pedicled flap for reconstruction. A reliable and well-perfused pedicled flap can be based on this cluster of perforators, hence the term 'pedicle cluster perforator flap'. We present a case of a patient with recurrent angiosarcoma, who required total anterior chest wall reconstruction. This was achieved using bilateral pedicled SEA perforator flaps for complete coverage. To our knowledge, this is the first documented case of bilateral pedicled perforator flap reconstruction for complete chest wall reconstruction.
Use of the titanium vertical ribs osteosynthesis system for reconstruction of large posterolateral chest wall defect in lung cancer.	We report a case of reconstruction of a large full-thickness posterolateral defect of the chest wall after resection of a stage III non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) using the combination of a vertical expandable prosthetic titanium device and a polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) mesh. A 40-year-old female presented with a NSCLC classified as type IIIA and required both neoadjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy. An en bloc resection including the left upper lobe, posterolateral segments of five ribs (K3-K7) and vertebral bodies (T3-T6) was performed through a posterior J-shaped approach. A vertical rib osteosynthesis system was used to ensure thoracic wall stability and mechanical organ protection, prevent ventilatory impairment, avoid incarceration of the tip of the scapula, and maintain an acceptable cosmetic aspect. The device was locked onto the middle arch of the second and eighth ribs. We hung the PTFE mesh from the titanium bars with multiple non-absorbable sutures under maximal tension. Final pathological classification was T4N0M0 with an R0 final resection status. After an uneventful course, the patient was discharged on postoperative day 10. This first experience indicates that vertical rib osteosynthesis combined with a PTFE mesh can be used safely and easily in a one-stage procedure for major posterior chest wall defects.
Robotic latissimus dorsi muscle harvest:  a case series.	The latissimus dorsi muscle is a workhorse of reconstructive surgery. Traditional harvest technique requires a long, posterior donor-site incision. Endoscopic harvest is limited by technical challenges. Robotic technology permits a simpler, minimally invasive harvest technique.
Complex repair of pectus excavatum recurrence and massive chest wall defect and lung herniation after prior open repair.	For more than 50 years, surgeons used traditional open surgical methods to correct pectus excavatum deformities. These techniques have undergone multiple modifications but involve resection of costal cartilages and mobilization of the sternum to an anterior position. Long-term postoperative complications are rarely published. Recurrence with lung herniation presents unique challenges. We report a technique to repair this condition in a patient with massive chest wall defect and residual excavatum deformity after open repair of his excavatum deformity. 
Medium to long-term outcome of thoracoscapular arthrodesis with screw fixation for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy.	Shoulder girdle muscle weakness is the most constant feature of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy and leads to scapular winging. Mechanical fixation of the scapula to the thoracic wall provides a stable fulcrum on which the deltoid muscle can exert its action on the humerus. The aim of this study was to evaluate the medium to long-term outcome of thoracoscapular arthrodesis with screw fixation (the modified Howard-Copeland technique).
A safer way of suturing in Foker's technique.	Foker's technique allows esophageal lengthening facilitating end to end anastomosis in long gap esophageal atresia. The problem faced with this technique is that the traction sutures cut through the tissues leading to re-operations. Our aim was to find a technique of suturing that will prevent the sutures from cutting through the esophagus.
Results of non-rigid prosthetic reconstruction with expanded polytetrafluoro-ethylene( ePTFE) soft tissue patch following chest wall resection for malignant tumors]	Twenty patients underwent chest wall reconstruction using expanded polytetrafluoroethylene(ePTFE) soft tissue patch following resection between June 1996 and December 2012. The patients included 15 men and 5 women, aged 18 to 80 years. The indications for resection included 4 primary tumors, 8 metastatic tumors, and 8 infiltrating tumors. The lesions were located anteriorly in 10 patients, laterally in 5 patients and posteriorly in 5 patients. Skeletal resection involved an average of 2 ribs in 19 patients, and a partial sternectomy in 1 patient. The size of chest wall defects ranged from 20 to 210 cm2( mean, 69.8 cm2). Lung resection was performed in 7 patients included a wedge resection, 5 lobectomy, and a bilobectomy. Chest wall defects were closed primarily with ePTFE soft tissue patch. There were no critical complications or postoperative mortalities. The mean follow-up in all patients is 72.7 months. Recurrence of malignancy occurred in 10 patients included a local recurrence in 1 patient, and metastases in 9 patients. The overall postoperative 5-year survival rate is 61.0%. Non-rigid prosthetic reconstruction with ePTFE soft tissue patch provides satisfactory outcome. New prosthetic materials have to be examined whether they are superior to ePTFE soft tissue patch. 
