Evaluation of 572 cases of blunt and penetrating thoracic trauma]	We retrospectively evaluated 572 patients with thoracic trauma from total of 2163 trauma patients who admitted to 2nd General Surgery Emergency Service of Kartal Education and Research Hospital from January 1997 to February 2000. 501 of the patients (87.5%) were male and 71 (12.5%) were female. The range of ages 2-84 and mean age was 32.2. 337 (59%) patients had blunt and 235 (41%) had penetrating thoracic trauma. While traffic accidents (72%) were determined as the most common ethiological factor for blunt thoracic trauma, penetrating and cutting instruments injuries (82%) were the most common factor for penetrating thoracic trauma. Accompanying trauma were observed in 37.5% of cases. 332 (58%) tube thoracostomy, 185 (32.5%) conservative treatment, 41 (7.1%) thoracotomy 14 (2.4%) mechanical ventilation were carried out. The rates of mortality were 6.8% and of morbidity 3.3%. Early diagnosis and immediate appropriate treatment in thoracic trauma increases the survival.
Thoracic trauma: analysis of 987 cases]	In Izmir Chest Diseases and Thoracic Surgery Training Hospital, Department of 1st Thoracic Surgery, between 1988 and 1998, 987 patients who were treated for their chest trauma were retrospectively reviewed in regard to their age, sex, cause of trauma, associated organ injuries, treatment modality, complication rate and mortality. In 710 (72%) cases of chest injuries were related to blunt trauma and 277 (28%) patients sustained penetrating trauma. 402 (41%) patients underwent tube thoracostomy only. While majority of patients (553 pts, 56%) were managed conservatively, only 32 (3%) underwent thoracotomy. Complication rate in our series was 4.6% and the most frequently atelectasis was seen. 13 patients died due to trauma related causes (mortality: 1.3%). There was no difference between blunt and penetrating trauma patients in view of morbidity and mortality rates (p = 0.29 and p = 0.10, respectively). Mean hospital stay among all patients was 9.6 +/- 8.6 days. This period was 10.0 +/- 8.5 days in blunt trauma group, and 8.4 +/- 8.6 days in penetrating trauma group. However this difference has reached statistical significance at a p value of 0.0068.
Major trauma transfer in Western Australia.	The transfer of critically injured patients in a rural Australian setting presents a unique challenge to medical services due to the constraints of distance and time. The purpose of this study is to analyse which injuries are being transferred, how they occur, pretransfer intervention, transfer methods and transfer times.
Homicide-suicide by stabbing study over 10 years in the toulouse region.	The authors conducted a retrospective study of 70 cases of homicide and suicide in the Toulouse region to identify the variables that enable us to determine whether a death is a homicide or a suicide. This work showed that the following characteristics-a female victim, numerous wounds, and the presence of 1 or more vertical chest wounds-suggest homicide. It also highlights the importance of inspecting clothing, in particular the position of clothing and the presence or absence of slashes.
Skeletal chest injuries secondary to cardiopulmonary resuscitation.	To review the evidence on the incidence of rib and sternal fractures after conventional closed-chest compression in the treatment of cardiac arrest in adults and children, and after active compression-decompression cardiopulmonary resuscitation (ACD-CPR).
Chest wall injuries following cardiopulmonary resuscitation.	The forensic records were reviewed of 1823 deaths referred to Edinburgh City Mortuary for autopsy over a 15-month period, 2000-2001; 499 cases (343 males, 156 females) that received CPR prior to death were studied. Rib fractures were found in 29%, sternal fracture in 14%, and 11% of cases showed external chest wall bruising or abrasion. More females sustained rib fractures than males (37% versus 26%; P <0.05). There was no significant gender difference for sternal fracture (females 17%, males 12%; P=0.051). The incidence of rib fractures increased with age (P <0.001). There was no significant difference in the number of left or right ribs fractured (P=0.631). This study incorporates all cases of in and out-of-hospital CPR and does not discriminate for the CPR provider or technique employed, therefore, providing a current and representative overview of the incidence of rib and sternal fractures in non-survivors of CPR.
Steering wheel deformity and serious thoracic or abdominal injury among drivers and passengers involved in motor vehicle crashes.	We assess the relationship between steering wheel deformity and serious thoracic or abdominal injury among drivers and front seat passengers involved in motor vehicle crashes, while adjusting for important crash factors.
Penetrating chest trauma in Nigeria.	Penetrating chest trauma occurs worldwide, and various accounts of it have been reported in the literature.(1)(-)(5) Blunt trauma is not usually associated with military or civilian violence, while penetrating chest trauma often is. Penetrating chest trauma is frequently caused by gunshots and non gunshot-related incidents such as stabs, traffic accidents, and impalements. This prospective study was conducted to determine a pattern of penetrating thoracic injuries, including their causes, the role of surgery, and intervention outcomes. In this study, we treated 168 patients (142 males and 26 females, giving a male-to-female ratio of 5.5:1). Gunshots caused 60.1% of the injuries while traffic accidents caused 27.3% of the injuries. Chest tube insertion alone was the main treatment initiated. This technique was used on 73.8% of the patients. To reduce the occurrence of penetrating chest trauma in Lagos, Nigeria, study results suggest that the Nigerian people and their property need greater security, and that pre-hospital level of care for trauma victims must improve.
Lateral impact injuries with side airbag deployments--a descriptive study.	The present study was designed to provide descriptive data on side impact injuries in vehicles equipped with side airbags using the United States National Automotive Sampling System (NASS). The database was queried with the constraint that all vehicles must adhere to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards FMVSS 214, injured occupants be in the front outboard seats with no rollovers or ejections, and side impacts airbags be deployed in lateral crashes. Out of the 7812 crashes in the 1997-2004 weighted NASS files, AIS > or = 2 level injuries occurred to 5071 occupants. There were 3828 cases of torso-only airbags, 955 cases of torso-head bag combination, and 288 inflatable tubular structure/curtain systems. Side airbags were not attributed to be the cause of head or chest injury to any occupant at this level of severity. The predominance of torso-only airbags followed by torso-head airbag combination reflected vehicle model years and changing technology. Head and chest injuries were coupled for the vast majority of occupants with injuries to more than one body region. Comparing literature data for side impacts without side airbag deployments, the presence of a side airbag decreased AIS=2 head, chest, and extremity injuries when examining raw data incidence rates. Although this is the first study to adopt strict inclusion-exclusion criteria for side crashes with side airbag deployments, future studies are needed to assess side airbag efficacy using datasets such as matched-pair occupants in side impacts.
Evaluation of chest barriers for protection against sudden death due to commotio cordis.	Blunt precordial blows triggering ventricular fibrillation (commotio cordis) represent a leading cause of sudden death in young athletes. Attention has focused on the primary prevention of these tragedies with chest barriers. The U.S. Commotio Cordis Registry was accessed to determine the likelihood of sudden death in athletes exposed to precordial blows while wearing chest protectors. Of 182 cases of commotio cordis, 85 (47%) occurred during practice or competition in organized sports. In 32 of these 85 competitive athletes (38%), fatal chest blows occurred despite the presence of potentially protective equipment. Athletes wore standard, commercially available chest barriers made of polymer foam covered by fabric or hard shells, generally perceived as protective from arrhythmic consequences of the blows. These events occurred in 4 sports: hockey (n = 13; 1 goalie), football (n = 10), lacrosse (n = 6; 3 goalies), and baseball (n = 3; all catchers). Scenarios included the failure of the padding to cover the precordium so that blows circumvented the protective barrier (n = 25) or projectiles that struck the chest barrier directly (n = 7). In conclusion, a significant proportion (about 40%) of sudden deaths reported in young competitive athletes due to blunt chest blows (commotio cordis) occur despite the presence of commercially available sports equipment generally perceived as protective.
An appraisal of trauma in the elderly.	To review the trends of trauma in the elderly experienced at our trauma center compared with other Level I trauma centers. This was a retrospective trauma registry analysis (1996-2003) of 2783 blunt trauma in elderly (BTE) and 4568 adult (BTA) patients in a Level 1 trauma center. Falls and motor vehicular crashes were the most common mechanisms noted in 47 per cent and 31 per cent (84% and 13% in BTE, 25% and 42% in BTA). BTE were sicker, with higher Injury Severity Scores (ISS), lengths of stay, and mortality (5% vs 2%, P value < 0.05). ISS was 5.2-fold higher in nonsurvivors to survivors in BTA and 2.4-fold in BTE. Elevation in ISS resulted in higher linear increase in mortality in BTE (vs BTA) at any ISS level. Mortality in patients with ISS > or = 25 was 43.5 per cent vs 23.8 per cent. ISS > or = 50 had 31 per cent adult survivors but no elderly survivors. Among isolated injuries, head trauma in the elderly carried the highest mortality, at 12 per cent (19% in patients with an Abbreviated Injury Score > or = 3). Abdominal injuries were the most lethal (18.3% and 41.2% in patients with an Abbreviated Injury Score > or = 3) in multiple trauma victims (41% vs 18% in isolated trauma). There was 4.4-fold increased mortality in the presence of thoracic trauma. Combined head, chest, and abdominal trauma carried the worst prognosis. Thirty-four per cent of BTE and 88 per cent of BTA patients were discharged home. Elderly patients need more aggressive therapy, as they are sicker with higher mortality.
Staff injuries after patient-staff incidences in psychiatric acute wards.	The aim of the study was to describe the pattern of injuries to various body parts in patient-staff incidents; 507 patient-staff incidents in a psychiatric acute ward during the period 1990-1997 were included. Staff members registered 193 injuries in the head, 112 in the trunk, 265 in the upper extremities and 69 in the lower extremities. No differences between the two sexes or between different levels of education among the nurses were found in the pattern of injuries. Doctors were more often injured in the head and less often injured in the upper extremity than the nurses. The head was more often injured when there was no understandable provocation before the incident and seldom injured when the patients were denied something. Injuries to the trunk were more frequently followed by use of parenteral medication. Parenteral medication and holding the patient with force were more frequently used in incidents where more than one body part was injured. The knowledge of injures after patient-staff incidences may contribute to the education and protective training of the staff of psychiatric acute wards.
Emergency thoracotomy in trauma: rationale, risks, and realities.	Emergency department thoracotomy (EDT) may serve as a life-saving tool when performed for the right indications, in selected patients, and in the hands of a trained surgeon. Critically injured patients 'in extremis' arrive at an increasing rate in the trauma bay, as an effect of improved pre-hospital trauma systems and rapid transport. Any patient in near, or full cardiovascular shock prompts the trauma surgeon to rapidly perform a thoracotomy. The EDT procedure is managed best by surgeons familiar with, and experienced in, penetrating cardiothoracic injuries. However, the geographical differences in trauma epidemiology lends no, or only scarce, experience with this procedure in most European trauma centres. Consequently, mandatory training is imperative for success. The rationale for performing an EDT is to: (I) resuscitate the agonal patient with penetrating cardiothoracic injuries; (II) release cardiac tamponade by evacuation of pericardial blood; (III) immediately control hemorrhage and repair cardiac or pulmonary injury; (IV) perform open cardiac massage; and (V) place a thoracic aortic cross-clamp to redistribute the remaining blood volume, and perfuse the carotids and coronary arteries. The prevalence rates of blood-borne viruses reported in critically injured patients in the USA (10-20%) exceed the prevalence in the Nordic countries (HIV prevalence < 1% in general population). However, risk is not negligible and mandated universal precautions are needed. The literature is rich in series describing the use of EDT, however, the best evidence is derived from a few prospective trials. EDT saves about one in every five patients with isolated penetrating cardiac injury, while > 98% die after blunt injury. Based on an updated review of the current available literature, this paper presents the current evidence regarding the rationale, risk, and outcomes for employing EDT in the field of trauma surgery.
Pattern of chest injuries in road traffic incident victims: a six-year retrospective study.	The young are the most common victims of trauma and trauma is the leading cause of death in the first four decades of life. Injury accounts for more than 50% of deaths in children and is the third leading cause of death after cancer and atherosclerosis in all age groups. Thoracic trauma is one of the leading causes of death in all age groups and accounts for 25-50% of all traumatic injuries in the world.
Analysis of epidemiology, lesions, treatment and outcome of 354 consecutive cases of blunt and penetrating trauma to the chest in an African setting.	The proportion of death and disability related to trauma is increasing in Third-World countries. Thoracic trauma is significantly involved, but few data are available on this issue in African countries with specific local conditions.
Thoracic injuries in US combat casualties: a 10-year review of Operation Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.	Mortality from thoracic injuries has declined significantly from 63% in the Civil War to 3% in Vietnam. We reviewed the injury patterns, procedures, blood products, and mortality of US soldiers sustaining a thoracic injury during Operation Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF).
A prospective study on dinghy sailors' training habits and injury incidence with a comparison between elite sailor and club sailor during a 12-month period.	Sailing is an Olympic sport practiced by both men and women of all ages. Despite being a popular sport, we have found no prospective studies investigating the injury incidence and training quantity such as found for other sports. The purpose of this study was to do an inventory over dinghy sailors' training habits, injury incidence and type of injury.
Traumatic diaphragmatic rupture in children.	The purpose of this study was to describe our experience with traumatic diaphragmatic rupture (TDR). Very little has been written about this condition in the pediatric age group.
Penetrating chest trauma: a 20-year experience.	From 1965 to 1985, 76 patients were admitted to Sacré-Coeur Hospital, Montreal, with a diagnosis of penetrating chest trauma (PCT). The majority were under the age of 30 years and almost two thirds suffered gunshot wounds. Sixty-seven (88.1%) sustained a lateral or thoracic (T) injury and in nine (11.8%) the lesion was central or mediastinal (M). In the first group (T), 53.7% were treated surgically with thoracotomy, laparotomy, and chest tube (CT) insertion or both; 46.2% were managed conservatively. In the second group (M) the pericardium or the heart was involved, eight patients (88.8%) were managed surgically without the use of extracorporeal circulation and one patient was observed only. Eight (11.9%) died in the thoracic group; all survived in the mediastinal group, for an overall mortality of 10.5%. Shock was associated with increased morbidity and mortality in the thoracic group (T) and infection was the most frequent complication for the entire group of patients under study. There has been a steady increase in the total number of PCT at our hospital during the last two decades suggesting an increase in crime and violence in our urban surroundings.
Stab injury--the experience of an East London Hospital 1978-1983.	A retrospective review of 201 patients with stab wounds admitted to an East London Hospital over a period of six years was performed. There was no striking increase in the annual incidence of these injuries over the period reviewed. The majority of patients were young males who arrived at the Accident and Emergency Department after 1800 h on a Friday, Saturday, or Sunday and had consumed alcohol prior to admission. There were 47 abdominal injuries (23%), 69 thoracic (34%), 51 limb injuries (25%) and 34 injuries involving the head and neck (17%). Forty patients (20%) had injuries involving more than one site. Abdominal stabbings were managed by a selective approach resulting in 28 laparotomies of which only 2 (7%) were negative. Evisceration of small bowel or omentum was always associated with significant intraperitoneal injury.
The incidence of severe trauma in small rural hospitals.	Trauma is the third leading cause of death in the United States, and yet relatively little is known about its epidemiology, especially in rural areas. A retrospective study was done in five Washington and Idaho communities to determine the incidence of severe trauma seen in small rural hospitals. Records were reviewed for the year 1983 on all trauma patients (565 cases) who were either admitted to or transferred from these hospitals. The study area included five hospitals and 30 physicians, serving a population of 57,600 people over 7,396 square miles. Each patient's injuries were rated according to the Injury Severity Score (ISS), a standardized trauma index. Of the cases reviewed, 3.4 percent of the cases had an ISS greater than or equal to 20, reflecting severe multisystem trauma, 14.7 percent had an ISS of 10 to 19, ie, severe trauma limited to one body system or multisystem trauma of a less-critical nature. There were 30 patients (5.3 percent) with critical head injuries, 24 patients (4.2 percent) with major chest injuries, and 21 patients (3.7 percent) with serious abdominal injuries. The results showed that each individual physician or hospital did not see the severe cases often, but that when they occurred, these types of injuries necessitated an experienced, rapid response on the part of the hospital staff. This finding has significant implications for trauma management in rural communities.
Respiratory function following application of MAST trousers.	To determine whether counterpressure suits such as the medical anti-shock trousers (MAST) reduce functional ventilation, 25 consecutive patients who received MAST support were reviewed retrospectively. The indications for use of MAST were systolic pressure below 80 mm Hg or clinical signs and pressure below 100 mm Hg. In the five patients with head injuries severe acidosis developed, with a mean pH of 7.19. The other groups had only mild acidosis. Although counterpressure suits have been shown to affect mechanical pulmonary function, alveolar ventilation is not significantly impaired.
Blunt force lesions related to the heights of a fall.	Patterns of traumatic injuries due to fall from height certainly have an association with the amount of impact involved. A study of 63 medicolegal autopsies with the history of falls has been carried out during the period January 1974-July 1980. The injuries found were caused either by the direct impact, i.e., at the site of impact, or in a region distant from the site of impact of force as a result of transmitted force or indirect force. An attempt has been made to evaluate, generalize and correlate the characteristic pattern of the injuries to the various parts of the body with respect to various heights of fall. Stress has also been laid on the mechanism of production of these injuries in order to create a composite picture to help determine the most likely traumatic force in falls from height.
Chest trauma in the elderly.	The number of injured elderly is expected to increase over the next 20 years. The mortality for injured persons age 50 years and older is higher than expected at all levels of injury severity. No good explanation for this phenomenon exists, although chronic disease is frequently cited. Presently, treatment guidelines are derived from gerontology and a limited geriatric trauma base.
Associated injuries in facial fractures: review of 839 patients.	Patients with facial trauma may have associated injuries requiring immediate or specialised attention. This paper reports the incidence and nature of significant associated neurosurgical, ocular, spinal, torso and extremity injuries in facial fracture patients treated by the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery from June 1989 to June 1992. Of 839 patients treated during the period, 95 patients (11.3%) sustained significant concomitant injuries outside the facial skeleton. There were 45 (5.4%) patients with associated neurosurgical injuries, 33 (3.9%) with ocular injuries, 8 (0.9%) with spinal injuries, 16 (1.9%) with injuries of the torso, and 62 (7.4%) with injuries of the extremities. The spectrum of the injuries is presented. Most neurosurgical injuries are a result of focal impact and the intervention required is related mainly to local fracture management and the repair of dural tears. The risk of significant ocular injury is highest when the fracture involves the orbit. Injuries of the spine, torso (chest, abdomen, pelvis), and limbs were seen mainly in road trauma patients.
Thoracic stab wounds]	Stab wounds are the most common cause of open chest wounds in our setting, with an incidence far higher than either wounds caused by firearms or bull horns. We describe a series of 49 patients, 44 (89.8%) men and 5 (10.2%) women. Mean age was 31 years. The 49 patients had suffered 72 stab wounds to the chest, of which 30 (41.6%) were penetrating and 42 (58.3%) were non penetrating. The lesions observed were 11 (22.4%) cases of pneumothorax, 10 (20.4%) of hemopneumothorax, 6 pulmonary lesions, 2 heart wounds and 1 extensively damaged diaphragm. Twenty-four patients with non penetrating wounds and 8 with penetrating wounds were treated conservatively. It was subsequently necessary to drain the chest of only one. Of the remaining penetrating wounds, drains were inserted in six immediately and 11 underwent surgery. Complications developed in only 9 cases. One patient died as a result of abdominal lesions resulting from stab wounds directly to the abdomen. We are in favor of conservative management. Indications for more aggressive intervention are hypovolemic shock, cardiac tamponade or significant loss of fluid through the thoracic drain.
