Thoracic duct cyst presenting as an hour-glass shaped mass in the left supraclavicular area: case report.	Thoracic duct cyst presenting as an hour-glass shaped mass in the left supraclavicular area: case report. Thoracic duct cysts are a very rare entity in the head and neck pathology. We present a case of a 52 year-old man, who was referred to our service, complaining by a 30 days left cervical mass, with no other symptoms. A 6 cm cystic mass was revealed after ultrasonography and CT. Needle aspiration confirmed the presence of lymph in the cyst. The treatment was simple excision. Special care was taken to ligate the connected lymphatic vessels.
Popliteal and mesenteric lymph node injection with methylene blue for coloration of the thoracic duct in dogs.	To describe and compare the time of onset and intensity of thoracic duct coloration after injection of methylene blue into a mesenteric or popliteal lymph node.
Case report. Restrictive cardiomyopathy with chylothorax in a cat: the pathogenesis]	A 8.5 year old castrated female domestic short-haired cat was presented because of progressive dyspnea, inappetence and weight loss. Special examinations revealed a chylothorax. In addition a restrictive cardiomyopathy was suspected. The cat was euthanized. The histopathologic examination of the heart confirmed the diagnosis of restrictive cardiomyopathy. The examination of the ductus thoracicus showed a intramural fibrosis with additional edema and a interstitial partly perivascular inflammation. The coherence between feline cardiopathy and chylothorax was discussed speculatively in previous reports. In this report we show a possible aetiopathology.
Chylous ascites: apropos of a case of endometrial adenocarcinoma associated with homologous carcinosarcoma of a fallopian tube]	A patient who was 61 years of age had obstruction of the thoracic duct by metastases from an adenocarcinoma of the endometrium together with a carcinosarcoma of the tube. She developed chylous ascite. The diagnostic approach and the treatment has been reviewed by the authors.
Thoracic duct cyst: diagnosis with needle aspiration.	A case of an asymptomatic posterior mediastinal thoracic duct cyst diagnosed with fluoroscopically guided needle aspiration is reported. Previously, the diagnosis of thoracic duct cyst was established surgically and more recently was established by lymphangiography. To the authors' knowledge, diagnosis using needle aspiration has not been reported.
Thoracic duct changes in schistosomal hepatic fibrosis.	The changes in the thoracic duct were studied in schistosomatic hepatic fibrosis, particularly in cases with ascites. The postmortem findings, lymphangiography, and clinical thoracic duct cannulation showed that, particularly in cases with ascites, the thoracic duct is dilated, pressure within is raised, and the lymph flow is increased. The significance of these findings is discussed in relation to the site and the treatment of ascites.
Thoracic duct obstruction associated with the thoracic outlet syndrome.	A case is presented in which intermittent swelling of the face, left upper limb and both lower limbs was associated with steatorrhea. The thoracic duct was found to be obstructed at the thoracic outlet. After surgery the symptoms disappeared promptly. The value of lymphography is discussed and compared to the other diagnostic methods.
Pseudochylous effusion in a cat with cardiomyopathy.	A case of pseudochylous thoracic effusion associated with feline cardiomyopathy is described. At necropsy there was no evidence of structural damage to the thoracic duct or other major lymphatic vessels. The literature covering this syndrome was reviewed and it was concluded that the thoracic effusion may have been associated with congestive heart failure and interference with drainage of the thoracic duct into the anterior vena cava.
Treatment of chronic thoracic duct fistula with the sternocleidomastoid muscle flap.	Thoracic duct fistula is a rare but potentially serious complication of head and neck surgery. The fistulae can be difficult to treat, and several techniques, both operative and nonoperative, are advocated. We present a simple technique for the treatment of chronic thoracic duct fistula where other procedures have failed. After identification and ligation of the duct, the area is covered with the clavicular head of the sternocleidomastoid muscle.
