Estimation of left internal thoracic artery flow reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting using Doppler flow wire]	The usefulness of the left internal thoracic artery (LITA) for aortocoronary bypass grafting is now established. Reports of variation in LITA graft function are rare. Graft flow was measured using a Doppler flow wire to estimate graft function in 27 patients (24 males, 3 females) who underwent LITA grafting to the left anterior descending artery. Patients were classified into the following 3 groups: Group A consisted of 9 patients with normal left ventricular function and no native flow; Group B consisted of 11 patients with normal ventricular function and good native flow; Group C consisted of 7 patients with abnormal left ventricular function and no native flow. LITA graft function was also estimated 1 year after operation in 12 of these 27 patients (4 in each group). Diastolic/systolic velocity ratio (DSVR) and flow reserve were determined in the proximal, middle, and distal portions of the LITA graft and native left anterior descending artery before and after papaverine administration (8-10 mg). DSVR was significantly higher in the distal portion than in the proximal portion (p < 0.01), but this value did not change after papaverine administration. After 1 year, DSVR in the proximal portion was significantly higher in Group C than in Groups A or B (p < 0.05 for both). Four weeks after operation, the flow reserve of the distal portion was significantly higher in Group A than in Group C (p < 0.001). After 1 year, this value was significantly higher in Group A than in either Groups B or C (p < 0.01, p < 0.001, respectively). The rate of increase in flow reserve in the distal portion was significantly greater in Group A (23.4%) than in groups B (2.53%) or C (1.94%; p < 0.05 for both). The distal portion of the LITA was the best measurement site, since the flow pattern in the LITA graft varied throughout all portions. Diastolic flow velocity in the LITA graft was dominant in patients with myocardial damage. The results indicate that flow reserve of the LITA graft depends on antegrade native coronary flow and distal myocardial damage.
Should the supplemental vein graft be anastomosed upstream or downstream of the internal thoracic artery (ITA) for ITA hypoperfusion?	This study was designed to compare internal thoracic artery (ITA) flow in different settings of supplemental vein grafting for ITA hypoperfusion.
Novel strategy for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery using Doppler ultrasonography]	Paraplegia remains one of the most serious complications after thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. Spinal cord ischemia during the operation is thought to be the most important contributor to the development of this neurological deficit. So, it is important to preserve or reconstruct the critical segmental arteries for spinal cord protection. In order to identify the critical segmental arteries, we evaluate the segmental arteries by measuring the flow velocities using Doppler ultrasonography. The flow velocities are different among segmental arteries and some segmental arteries have no flow even though they are patent. Because we think that the segmental arteries with high flow velocities have much contribution to the spinal cord perfusion, we reconstruct or preserve such segmental arteries during the operation. We hope that this method would be clinically useful for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery.
Pectoralis major muscle free flap in rat model.	The rat pectoralis muscle can serve as a vascularized, innervated muscle flap model. The muscle, consisting of superficialis and profundus portions, is supplied by separate neurovascular systems. The vessels to pectoralis profundus (averaging 0.3 mm in diameter) can be taken in continuity with the axillary vessels (averaging 11 mm in diameter), which are used for transplantation. The profundus portion of muscle weighed an average of 1.8 g, and the average pedicle length was 0.9 cm. Nine of 11 transplanted muscles were viable, with intact circulation at 72 hours. An example of muscle transplantation for tissue defect coverage was attempted. The pectoralis profundus transplant was technically reliable, and the muscle bulk and contour could allow biochemical and functional studies.
Effect of nifedipine and verapamil on the interaction of arterial and venous systemic hemodynamics]	Electromagnetic flowmetry and analogue computers were used to evaluate changes in great venous and arterial blood flow and resistance alterations in the vessels after nifedipine and verapamil in experiments with 12 anesthesized cats. The agents were demonstrated to increase cardiac output due to lower afterload and venous return, to redistribute cardiac output towards greater brain blood supply. The latter was caused by a more marked decrease in vascular resistance in the brachiocephalic arterial tree than in the descending thoracic artery. Blood flow changes in the great arteries determined those in the vena cava superior and inferior.
