A D-amino acid editing module coupled to the translational apparatus in archaea.	We report the crystal structure of an archaea-specific editing domain of threonyl-tRNA synthetase that reveals a marked structural similarity to D-amino acid deacylases found in eubacteria and eukaryotes. The domain can bind D-amino acids despite a low sequence identity to other D-amino acid deacylases. These results together indicate the presence of these deacylases in all three kingdoms of life. This underlines an important role they may have played in enforcing homochirality during translation.
Intraphylum diversity and complex evolution of cyanobacterial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases.	A comparative genomic analysis of 35 cyanobacterial strains has revealed that the gene complement of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (AARSs) and routes for aminoacyl-tRNA synthesis may differ among the species of this phylum. Several genes encoding AARS paralogues were identified in some genomes. In-depth phylogenetic analysis was done for each of these proteins to gain insight into their evolutionary history. GluRS, HisRS, ArgRS, ThrRS, CysRS, and Glu-Q-RS showed evidence of a complex evolutionary course as indicated by a number of inconsistencies with our reference tree for cyanobacterial phylogeny. In addition to sequence data, support for evolutionary hypotheses involving horizontal gene transfer or gene duplication events was obtained from other observations including biased sequence conservation, the presence of indels (insertions or deletions), or vestigial traces of ancestral redundant genes. We present evidences for a novel protein domain with two putative transmembrane helices recruited independently by distinct AARS in particular cyanobacteria.
Identification of protective antigens by RNA interference for control of the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum.	The lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum, vectors pathogens of emerging diseases of humans and animals in the United States. Currently, measures are not available for effective control of A. americanum infestations. Development of vaccines directed against tick proteins may reduce tick infestations and the transmission of tick-borne pathogens. However, the limiting step in tick vaccine development has been the identification of tick protective antigens. Herein, we report the application of RNA interference (RNAi) for screening an A. americanum cDNA library for discovery of tick protective antigens that reduce tick survival and weights after feeding. Four cDNA clones, encoding for putative threonyl-tRNA synthetase (2C9), 60S ribosomal proteins L13a (2D10) and L13e (2B7), and interphase cytoplasm foci protein 45 (2G7), were selected for vaccine studies in cattle, along with subolesin, a tick protective protein identified previously. In vaccinated cattle, an overall efficacy (E)>30% was obtained when considering the vaccine effect on both nymphs and adults, but only 2D10, 2G7 and subolesin affected both tick stages. The highest efficacy of control for adult ticks (E>55%) was obtained in cattle vaccinated with recombinant 2G7 or subolesin. These collective results demonstrated the feasibility of developing vaccines for the control of lone star tick infestations. The use of RNAi for identification of tick protective antigens proved to be a rapid and cost-effective tool for discovery of candidate vaccine antigens, and this approach could likely be applied to other parasites of veterinary and medical importance.
Nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence of human threonyl-tRNA synthetase reveals extensive homology to the Escherichia coli and yeast enzymes.	The nucleotide sequence of a cDNA coding human threonyl-tRNA synthetase has been determined. The predicted protein sequence is highly homologous to that of the yeast cytoplasmic, yeast mitochondria and Escherichia coli threonyl-tRNA synthetases. In particular, the three structural motifs recently shown to be common to class II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are present in the threonyl-tRNA synthetases from all sources. Primer extension and S1 nuclease analyses indicate that transcription initiates approximately 220-230 nucleotides upstream of the putative initiator methionine codon. This region contains a 10-nucleotide interrupted inverted repeat flanked by a 13-nucleotide interrupted direct repeat.
Transcriptional patterns for the thrS-infC-rplT operon of Escherichia coli.	The genes coding for threonyl-tRNA synthetase (thrS), translation initiation factor 3 (infC) and ribosomal protein L20 (rplT) are clustered in the Escherichia coli genome. Previous studies had suggested the possibility that the expression of these genes is coupled. The transcriptional events in this operon have now been examined by S1 nuclease mapping and promoter fusion studies. The results indicate that infC-containing mRNAs are initiated from three separate promoters. Two of these are located in the protein-coding region of thrS and one, P12, is the major promoter at all growth rates tested. In addition, there is co-transcription of thrS and infC from the thrS promoter (PT). A single promoter for thrS has been mapped approx. 170 nucleotides upstream from its translation initiation site. Another promoter has been located within the infC-coding region. It is separated from the next downstream gene, rplT, by a transcription end point. However, termination at this region is only 50-70% efficient and transcripts starting at this promoter can read through into rplT. These findings demonstrate that the pattern of transcription in this operon is highly complex and the mRNA levels for each of the genes is determined by a variety of factors, including multiple promoters, co-transcription and readthrough of transcription termination signals.
