Protein structural similarities predicted by a sequence-structure compatibility method.	A method for protein structure prediction has been developed, which evaluates the compatibility of an amino acid sequence with known 3-dimensional structures and identifies the most likely structure. The method was applied to a large number of sequences in a database, and the structures of the following proteins were predicted: (1) shikimate kinase (SKase), (2) the hydrophilic subunit of mannose permease (IIABMan), (3) rat tyrosine aminotransferase (Tyr AT), and (4) threonine dehydratase (TDH). The functional and evolutionary implications of the predictions are discussed. (1) The structural similarity between SKase and adenylate kinase was predicted. Alignment of their sequences reveals that the ATP-binding type A sequence motif and 2 ATP-binding arginine residues are conserved. The prediction suggests a similarity in their functional mechanisms as well as an evolutionary relationship. (2) The structural similarity between IIABMan and galactose/glucose-binding protein (GGBP) was predicted. The IIA and IIB domains are aligned with the N- and C-terminal domains of GGBP, respectively. The 2 phosphorylated residues, His 10 and His 175, of IIABMan are threaded onto loops located in the substrate-binding cleft of GGBP. The prediction accounts for the phosphoryl transfer from His 10 to His 175, and to the sugar substrate. (3) The structural similarity between rat Tyr AT and Escherichia coli aspartate AT was predicted, as well as (4) the structural similarity between TDH and the tryptophan synthase beta subunit. Predictions (3) and (4) support the previous predictions based on observations of the functional similarities between the proteins.
Construction of L-lysine-, L-threonine-, and L-isoleucine-overproducing strains of Corynebacterium glutamicum.	The gram-negative bacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum is used for the industrial production of amino acids, for example, of L-glutamate and L-lysine. By cloning and expressing the various genes of the L-lysine pathway in C. glutamicum, we would demonstrate that an increase of the flux of L-aspartate semialdehyde to L-lysine could be obtained in strains with increased dihydrodipicolinate synthase activity. Recently we detected that in C. glutamicum two pathways exist for synthesis of D,L-diaminopimelate and L-lysine. Mutants defective in one pathway are still able to synthesize enough L-lysine for growth, but the L-lysine secretion is reduced to 50 to 70%. Using NMR spectroscopy, we could calculate how much of the L-lysine secreted into the medium is synthesized via either one or the other pathway. Amplification of the feedback inhibition insensitive homoserine dehydrogenase and homoserine kinase in a high L-lysine-overproducing strain enabled channeling of the carbon flow from the intermediate aspartate semialdehyde towards homoserine, resulting in a high accumulation of L-threonine. For a further flux from L-threonine to L-isoleucine, the allosteric control of threonine dehydratase was eliminated.
Polymorphous crystallization and diffraction of threonine deaminase from Escherichia coli.	The biosynthetic threonine deaminase from Escherichia coli, an allosteric tetramer with key regulatory functions, has been crystallized in several crystal forms. Two distinct forms, both belonging to either space group P3121 or P3221, with different sized asymmetric units that both contain a tetramer, grow under identical conditions. Diffraction data sets to 2.8 A resolution (native) and 2. 9 A resolution (isomorphous uranyl derivative) have been collected from a third crystal form in space group I222.
Nucleosome structure of the yeast CHA1 promoter: analysis of activation-dependent chromatin remodeling of an RNA-polymerase-II-transcribed gene in TBP and RNA pol II mutants defective in vivo in response to acidic activators.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae CHA1 gene encodes the catabolic L-serine (L-threonine) dehydratase. We have previously shown that the transcriptional activator protein Cha4p mediates serine/threonine induction of CHA1 expression. We used accessibility to micrococcal nuclease and DNase I to determine the in vivo chromatin structure of the CHA1 chromosomal locus, both in the non-induced state and upon induction. Upon activation, a precisely positioned nucleosome (nuc-1) occluding the TATA box and the transcription start site is removed. A strain devoid of Cha4p showed no chromatin alteration under inducing conditions. Five yeast TBP mutants defective in different steps in activated transcription abolished CHA1 expression, but failed to affect induction-dependent chromatin rearrangement of the promoter region. Progressive truncations of the RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain caused a progressive reduction in CHA1 transcription, but no difference in chromatin remodeling. Analysis of swi1, swi3, snf5 and snf6, as well as gcn5, ada2 and ada3 mutants, suggested that neither the SWI/SNF complex nor the ADA/GCN5 complex is involved in efficient activation and/or remodeling of the CHA1 promoter. Interestingly, in a sir4 deletion strain, repression of CHA1 is partly lost and activator-independent remodeling of nuc-1 is observed. We propose a model for CHA1 activation based on promoter remodeling through interactions of Cha4p with chromatin components other than basal factors and associated proteins.
