Translocation t(4; 6)(q21; q27) in a case of primary thrombocythaemia in transformation.	We report a case of primary thrombocythaemia showing a translocation t(4; 6)(q21; q27) five years after diagnosis. The patient had been treated with hydroxyurea. The clinical picture at the time was consistent with transformation. Karyotypic abnormalities are rare in this disease and are reviewed.
Development of hairy cell leukemia in a patient treated with cytoreductive agents for essential thrombocythemia.	The association of second malignancies in hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is well recognized. Most of these malignancies are either solid tumors or lymphoproliferative disorders rather than myeloproliferative disorders. But these malignancies are usually related to a complication of the drug treatment for HCL. The chronological sequence of HCL occurring after a hematological disorder is very rarely described. This report describes the first case, to our knowledge, of a patient who developed HCL five years after essential thrombocythemia that was treated with oral cytoreductive agents. Pathogenesis of the coexistence of both diseases is discussed.
Current management of the myeloproliferative disorders: a case-based review.	Properly managed, the myeloproliferative disorders are generally compatible with prolonged survival. Challenges to the hematologist include knowing when and how best to intervene to prevent and manage complications. The cytoreductive agent of choice for these disorders is currently hydroxyurea, emerging from randomized trials beginning with those of the Polycythemia Vera Study Group.
Investigations on the subclinical and clinical nephrotoxicity of interferon alpha-2B in patients with myeloproliferative syndromes.	Since the introduction of interferon alpha-2b (IFN alpha-2b) into clinical oncology there have been several reports dealing with acute renal failure during therapy with this new type of anticancer drug. We investigated 58 patients (pts) with myeloproliferative syndromes (56 pts with chronic myelogenous leukemia, 2 pts with essential thrombocythemia) who were treated with 4 x 10(6) IU IFN alpha-2b each day subcutaneously. In order to assess the nephrotoxic potential we used the following noninvasive methods: 1. Analysis of the excretion of 4 urinary enzymes (LDH, LAP, GGT, NAG), 2. Determination of the excretion of protein, albumin, alpha-1-microglobulin immunoglobulin G (Ig G), 3. serum creatinine. The investigations were done every 2 weeks and took 70 weeks. We found an increase in the excretion of all 4 enzymes which remained stable during the whole observation period, protein excretion was pathological in about 20% of all pts and reached values of up to 9.07 g/L alpha-1-microglobulin was excreted in pathological amounts in about 20% of all pts during the whole observation period, albumin was found in pathological quantities in about 15% of all pts and Ig G was pathologically increased in the urine in about 10% of the pts. Serum creatinine rose in 5-10% of the pts up to 1.5 mg/dL. In conclusion, IFN alpha-2b is capable of inducing combined glomerular and tubular damage. Therefore, avoiding additional nephrotoxic insults is desirable.
Chemotherapy of chronic haematological malignancies.	After years of stagnation in the treatment of chronic haematological malignancies, some interesting agents have emerged which might improve the prognosis of these diseases. For chronic leukaemias of lymphoid lineage, three new chemical agents, all purine analogues, seem to be of particular interest. Pentostatin is a specific inhibitor of ADA and has been shown to be highly efficient in producing CR in patients with HCL. Its relative merit compared with IFN-alpha for the treatment of HCL is being studied in ongoing randomized trials. Pentostatin is also active in B-CLL and promising activities have been demonstrated in T- or B-PLL and ATCL. Fludarabine is an analogue of adenine which is resistant to the deamination of ADA. It has been reported to be highly active for patients with both pretreated or non-treated B-CLL. CR rates of 13% with overall response rates of 57% can be achieved, even in heavily pretreated patients. Its activity in the other lymphoid malignancies is not yet known. CdA, a substrate analogue of ADA, has also produced encouraging results in B-CLL, HCL and T cell malignancies, and in some patients with just one single course. Thus far, experience with this drug comes from one institution and requires further confirmation. For chronic myeloproliferative diseases, little progress has yet been made. Although IFN-alpha seems to be active in CML and to result in cytogenetic remissions in bone marrow, a definite advantage of this biological agent over conventional chemotherapy as regards survival and life quality has not yet been proven. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is beneficial for those patients who are eligible. No remarkable advances have been made in the treatment of myeloproliferative disorders except for the development of an antiplatelet drug, anagrelide. This agent seems to be highly effective in controlling thrombocytosis. The relative merit of this agent as compared with IFN-alpha, as well as the impact of this agent on the survival and on life-quality of patients with myeloproliferative disorders, have yet to be defined.
Low-dose aclarubicin in blastic transformation of essential thrombocythemia.	We attempted treatment with low-dose aclarubicin (ACR), a new anthracycline, in a 66-year-old man with blastic transformation of essential thrombocythemia (ET). Two courses of ACR (20 mg/day x 7 days) were given intravenously. He showed a good response to this therapy without severe side effects. He has since maintained a state of prolonged remission. These observations indicate that low-dose ACR may be beneficial for management of the blastic transformation of ET.
Future therapies for the myeloproliferative neoplasms.	Ever since their description as "myeloproliferative syndromes" by William Dameshek in 1951, the myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) have been managed by the selective use of rather mundane, nonspecific therapies that rely on either antiplatelet effects or myelosuppression. The year 2005 ushered in a new era of drug development and discovery for the MPNs after the description of the JAK2 V617F mutation and the role this constitutively active tyrosine kinase has in MPN pathogenesis. Subsequently, multiple pharmacologic agents have begun (or are about to begin) testing for the inhibition of JAK2 in an attempt to improve the treatment of MPNs. Both primary myelofibrosis and myelofibrosis following essential thrombocythemia or polycythemia vera have been the targets of the most extensive testing of these agents to date. Responses to these oral JAK2 inhibitors have been primarily intended to reduce splenomegaly and meaningfully improve symptoms; effects on the JAK2 V617F allele burden or marrow histology are limited. Toxicities have ranged from myelosuppression to significant diarrhea. Additional agents with other mechanisms of action are also targeting JAK2, including histone deacetylase inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors. The results of preliminary trials of JAK2 inhibitors in polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia have been mixed but are premature. Many questions remain as to the optimal JAK2 inhibitory strategy and the full extent of the benefit of single-agent JAK2 inhibition.
Treatment options for essential thrombocythemia and polycythemia vera.	Polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia are the most common chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms; their molecular basis has been appreciated only recently and is briefly discussed in this article. Major causes of morbidity and mortality are represented by arterial and venous thrombosis, as well as by evolution to myelofibrosis or transformation to acute leukemia. Therapy is currently aimed at reducing the rate of thrombosis without increasing the risk of hematologic transformation that might be caused by exposure to cytotoxic drugs. A risk-oriented approach is employed for stratifying patients to the most appropriate therapeutic options. However, results of clinical trials with interferon, and the expected effects of novel drugs selectively targeting the abnormal pathways that are involved in the clonal myeloproliferation, are pushing therapeutic goals from disease control only to cure. These different issues, and current recommendations for treatment, will be discussed in the review.
Modulation of JAK2 V617F allele burden dynamics by hydroxycarbamide in polycythaemia vera and essential thrombocythaemia patients.	The modulation of JAK2 V617F allele burden dynamics was prospectively analysed in 47 patients (26 polycythaemia vera [PV] and 21 essential thrombocythaemia [ET]) treated with first-line hydroxyurea (HU) and compared with the JAK2 V617F dynamics of a control group of 45 PV and ET patients. A partial molecular response (PMR), according to European Leukaemia Net criteria, was observed in 27/47 (57%) patients. Median time to PMR was 14 months (3-66) with a probability of PMR at 3 years of 57%. A significant decrease in JAK2 V617F allele load was observed at 36 months both in PV and ET patients, being the reduction in PV higher than in ET patients (P = 0·01). A haematocrit ≥0·45 L/L was associated with a higher probability of attaining a PMR (HR:3·4; 95%CI:1·02-11·6, P = 0·04). Control group showed a slight increase of JAK2 V617F allele burden over time. The reduction in the mutated allele load comparing treated patients versus controls was highly significant both in PV and ET, demonstrating a clear effect of HU on the JAK2 V617F allele burden. In conclusion, first-line HU can attain PMR in more than 50% of newly diagnosed PV and ET patients, with a continuous decrease of the JAK2 V617F allele burden in PV patients during treatment.
Myeloproliferative neoplasia: a review of clinical criteria and treatment.	Essential thrombocythemia (ET), polycythemia vera (PV) and primary myelofibrosis (PMF) belong to the group of Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasia (Ph- MPN). MPNs are clonal bone marrow stem cell disorders characterised by a proliferation of one or more of the myeloid, erythroid or megakaryocytic cell lines. Due to the different affected cell lines, MPNs show typical clinical and histological features. In 2005, a mutation in the JAK2 gene was discovered which generated more insight into the pathogenetic working mechanism of MPNs. However, the treatment of MPN patients is still mainly only palliative, although progress in reducing the symptoms of MPN patients has been made. This review will give a general overview of MPN patients for internal medicine physicians.
Long term molecular responses in a cohort of Danish patients with essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera and myelofibrosis treated with recombinant interferon alpha.	Within recent years data has accumulated demonstrating the efficacy of recombinant interferon alpha2 (rIFN-alpha2) in the treatment of chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). We report on clinical and molecular data in the largest cohort of JAK2 V617F mutant MPN Danish patients (n=102) being treated long-term with rIFN-alpha2 (rIFN-alpha2a and rIFN-alpha2b in a non-clinical trial setting. The median follow-up was 42 months. We substantiate the capacity of rIFN-alpha2 to induce complete hematologic remissions (ET 95%, PV 68%) and molecular response. In total 76 patients (74.5%) had a decline in JAK2 V617F allele burden with a median reduction from baseline of 59% (95% c.i. 50-73%, range 3-99%). A decline in JAK2 V617F allele burden was recorded in both ET (median 24-10% (95% c.i.: 8-16%), and PV (median 59-35% (95% c.i.: 17-33%). Patients with the lowest pre-treatment JAK2 V617F allele burdens tend to achieve the most favourable responses on long term treatment with rIFN-alpha2. Eleven patients (10%) had deep molecular remissions with ≤ 2% JAK2 V617F mutant DNA. Finally, long term treatment with rIFN-alpha2 was associated with a very low thrombosis rate. Our observations are supportive of the concept of early up-front treatment with rIFN-alpha2.
Interferon apha 2b for treating patients with JAK2V617F positive polycythemia vera and essential thrombocytosis.	To investigate interferon (IFN) alpha 2 b for treating patients with JAK2V617F positive polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocytosis (ET).
Clinical trial of SM-108 in myeloproliferative disorders]	SM-108 (4-carbamoylimidazolium-5-olate) is a new purine antagonist which blocks IMP dehydrogenase, the key enzyme of de novo GMP biosynthesis. Eleven patients were entered into a clinical study of SM-108 for the treatment of myeloproliferative disorders. These included 10 cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and one case of essential thrombocythemia (ET). Two cases of CML had received prior chemotherapy. SM-108 was given orally at a dose of 400-600mg/m2 daily. Of nine evaluable cases, four cases of CML achieved complete responses and two cases of CML achieved partial responses (response rate = 66.7%). The duration of drug action was short, and the daily dosage required adjustment at frequent intervals. Long-term response without therapy has not been seen with SM-108 in CML. There was no response in the case of ET. The side effects included constipation (1/11), diarrhea (1/11) and mild hepatic toxicity (1/11). No cardiac or renal toxicity was observed.
Essential thrombocythemia: response during first year of therapy with melphalan and radioactive phosphorus: a polycythemia Vera Study Group report.	Thirty-one patients with essential thrombocythemia were randomized to receive either melphalan or radioactive phosphorus as myelosuppressive therapy. Twenty-seven patients were evaluable for response. Of 13 patients treated with melphalan, 11 had a complete response (platelet count less than 450,000/mm3) at 3 and 6 months. This response rate was significantly better than the response to radioactive phosphorus. The response rates were similar at 12 months. No significant toxicity was observed with either regimen.
Essential thrombocythemia in transformation to smouldering megakaryoblastic leukemia with myelofibrosis]	Leukemic transformation in essential thrombocythemia (ET) is rare. We describe a patient with ET which transformed to megakaryoblastic leukemia with myelofibrosis after treatment with melphalan for 8 years. His course after transformation smouldered for 20 months without antileukemic chemotherapy. A 61-year-old man was referred by a local doctor to Niigata University Hospital due to nasal bleeding in June 1984. Complete blood count (CBC) was as follows; hemoglobin 12.4 g/dl, platelets 268.8 x 10(4)/microliters, and white blood cells 11,900/microliters, with differentials of 39% PMN, 1% basophils, 2% eosinophils, 4% monocytes, and 13% lymphocytes. Bone marrow examination revealed hyperplasia of megakaryocytes without increase of reticulin fibers. Neutrophil alkaline phosphatase activity and karyotype of marrow cells were normal. ET was diagnosed. He was followed up by local doctor. The platelet count was controlled at a level of approximately 40 x 10(4)/microliters with melphalan for eight years. In January 1992 he developed pain in his lower extremities. He was admitted to our hospital on May 29, 1992. CBC was as follows; hemoglobin 8.9 g/dl, platelets 14.3 x 10(4)/microliters, and white blood cells 3,500/microliters, with differentials of 25% PMN, 5% monocytes, 28% lymphocytes, and 24% blasts. Bone marrow aspiration was unsuccessful and bone marrow biopsy revealed increases in fibroblasts and collagen fibers. Circulating blasts were positive for CD4, CD7, CD25, CD13, CD33, CD34, and HLA-DR and partly positive for CD41 and CD36. In ultrastructural cytochemistry blasts were positive for platelet peroxidase but negative for myeloperoxidase. Cytogenetic study revealed 46, XY, +der (1) t(1:7) (p11;q11) in all of five metaphases. He was diagnosed with megakaryoblastic leukemia accompanied by myelofibrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
