Thrombospondin-1, vascular endothelial growth factor expression and microvessel density in renal cell carcinoma and their relationship with multifocality.	To evaluate the relevance of microvessel density (MVD) and the angiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, an important angiogenic factor in solid tumors) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1, a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis), to multifocality of renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
Vitamin A up-regulates the expression of thrombospondin-1 and pigment epithelium-derived factor in retinal pigment epithelial cells.	Vitamin A is essential for the visual system. It is metabolized in the retina and the resulting product, retinoic acid (RA), greatly affects the structure and functions of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. RPE cells produce a variety of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and angiogenic factors, both of which are expressed at varying levels in the normal RPE layer. In this study, we investigated the effect of all-trans-retinoic acid on the production of an ECM protein, thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), and two angiogenic factors, pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by RPE cells. RA increased the release of TSP-1 and PEDF, but not that of VEGF, from human RPE cells in vitro. In vitamin A-deficient mice, the expression of TSP-1 and PEDF in the RPE layer considerably decreased compared with that of normal control mice. The vitamin A deficiency hardly affected the accumulation of VEGF in the RPE layer. These findings suggest that vitamin A modulates the structure and anti-angiogenic functions of the RPE layer partly by up-regulating the expression of the angiogenesis-related ECM protein, TSP-1, and the anti-angiogenic factor, PEDF.
Critical role of endogenous thrombospondin-1 in preventing expansion of healing myocardial infarcts.	Matricellular proteins are extracellular matrix proteins that do not contribute directly to tissue integrity but are capable of modulating cell function. We hypothesized that the matricellular protein thrombospondin (TSP)-1, a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and activator of transforming growth factor (TGF-beta), is induced in healing myocardial infarcts and plays a role in suppressing the postinfarction inflammatory response, inhibiting local angiogenesis, and limiting expansion of granulation tissue into the noninfarcted area.
Receptor for advanced glycation end products is involved in impaired angiogenic response in diabetes.	Angiogenic response is impaired in diabetes. Here, we examined the involvement of receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) in diabetes-related impairment of angiogenesis in vivo. Angiogenesis was determined in reconstituted basement membrane protein (matrigel) plugs containing vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) implanted into nondiabetic or insulin-deficient diabetic wild-type or RAGE(-/-) mice. The total, endothelial, and smooth muscle (or pericytes) cells in the matrigel were significantly decreased in diabetes, with the regulation dependent on RAGE. In the matrigel, proangiogenic VEGF expression was decreased, while antiangiogenic thrombospondin-1 was upregulated in diabetic mice, regardless of the presence of RAGE. In wild-type mice, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells in the matrigel were significantly less in diabetic than in nondiabetic mice, while the numbers of transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were significantly higher. This alteration in PCNA- and TUNEL-positive cells in diabetes was not observed in RAGE(-/-) mice. Similarly, the percentage of nuclear factor kappaB-activated cells is enhanced in diabetes, with the regulation dependent on the presence of RAGE. Importantly, adenovirus-mediated overexpression of endogenous secretory RAGE, a decoy receptor for RAGE, restores diabetes-associated impairment of angiogenic response in vivo. Thus, RAGE appears to be involved in impairment of angiogenesis in diabetes, and blockade of RAGE might be a potential therapeutic target.
An autologous platelet-rich plasma stimulates periodontal ligament regeneration.	Regeneration of periodontal tissues is one of the most important goals for the treatment of periodontal disease. The technology of plasma rich in growth factors provides a biologic approach for the stimulation and acceleration of tissue healing. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the biologic effects of this technology on primary human periodontal ligament fibroblasts.
The 1998 Moyer Award. Characteristics of thrombospondin-1 and its cysteine-serine-valine-threonine-cysteine-glycine receptor in burn wounds.	Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), an adhesive glycoprotein, plays an important role in platelet adhesion, inflammation, cell-to-cell interaction, and angiogenesis. TSP-1 is expressed by endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and macrophages. TSP-1's unique cysteine-serine-valine-threonine-cysteine-glycine (CSVTCG) specific receptor plays an important role in the binding and modulation of cellular adhesion and invasion. This article histologically and quantitatively evaluates TSP-1 and its CSVTCG receptor in adult burn wounds over time. Tissue was obtained from burn wounds on several days and samples that were 5 microns thick were placed on slides. Expression of TSP-1 and its CSVTCG receptor were evaluated immunohistochemically and quantitated by computer image analysis in units of absorbance. Immunoglobin G (IgG) (negative) controls were performed and subtracted from the TSP-1 sample to eliminate background absorbance readings. Serum (negative) control was used for the CSVTCG receptor. Platelet concentrates were used as the positive control. A quantitative examination of the results yielded the following information, expressed as absorbance +/- standard error of the mean: TSP-1: day 1, 62.0 +/- 10.13; day 3, 76.2 +/- 6.90; day 5, 36.0 +/- 3.96; day 7, 60.4 +/- 5.67; and day 9, 29.5 +/- 2.91. TSP-1 displays an early peak, followed by a steep decrease over the time period studied. The readings for the CSVTCG receptor are as follows: day 1, 33.8 +/- 1.87; day 3, 34.5 +/- 5.39; day 7, 39.1 +/- 1.93; day 21, 39.1 +/- 1.93; day 28, 34.8 +/- 3.67. In contrast, the CVSTCG receptor continues to be present in the wound over time. Histologic findings are reported, and photographs and a histopathologic analysis are included. The information presented in this article leads to the conclusion that temporal and histologic differences exist in the localization and expression of TSP-1 and its CSVTCG receptor. TSP-1 is up-regulated in injured tissues immediately after the injury; it is rapidly down-regulated as the tissue heals. In contrast, the levels of the CSVTCG receptor remain relatively constant during the healing process. These data are consistent with TSP-1's known role in cell-to-cell interaction, including the modulation of the growth factor and protease activity.
