Thrombospondins: multifunctional regulators of cell interactions.	Thrombospondins are secreted, multidomain macromolecules that act as regulators of cell interactions in vertebrates. Gene knockout mice constructed for two members of this family demonstrate roles in the organization and homeostasis of multiple tissues, with particularly significant activities in the regulation of angiogenesis. This review discusses the functions of thrombospondins with regard to their cellular mechanisms of action and highlights recent advances in understanding how multifactorial molecular interactions, at the cell surface and within extracellular matrix, produce cell-type-specific effects on cell behavior and the organization of matrix and tissues.
Single-chain antibody fragments derived from a human synthetic phage-display library bind thrombospondin and inhibit sickle cell adhesion.	The enhanced adhesion of sickle red blood cells (RBCs) to the vascular endothelium and subendothelial matrix likely plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of vaso-occlusion in sickle cell disease. Sickle RBCs have enhanced adhesion to the plasma and extracellular matrix protein thrombospondin-1 (TSP) under conditions of flow in vitro. In this study, we sought to develop antibodies that bind TSP from a highly diverse library of human single-chain Fv fragments (scFvs) displayed on filamentous phage. Following 3 rounds of phage selection of increasing stringency 6 unique scFvs that bound purified TSP by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were isolated. Using an in vitro flow adhesion assay, 3 of the 6 isolated scFvs inhibited the adhesion of sickle RBCs to immobilized TSP by more than 40% compared with control scFvs (P <.001). Furthermore, scFv TSP-A10 partially inhibited sickle RBC adhesion to activated endothelial cells (P <.005). Using TSP proteolytic fragments to map the binding site, we showed that 2 of the inhibitory scFvs bound an epitope in the calcium-binding domain or proximal cell-binding domain of TSP, providing evidence for the role of these domains in the adhesion of sickle RBCs to TSP. In summary, we have isolated a panel of scFvs that specifically bind to TSP and differentially inhibit sickle RBC adhesion to surface-bound TSP under flow conditions. These scFvs will be useful reagents for investigating the role of the calcium and cell-binding domains of TSP in sickle RBC adhesion.
PfSPATR, a Plasmodium falciparum protein containing an altered thrombospondin type I repeat domain is expressed at several stages of the parasite life cycle and is the target of inhibitory antibodies.	The annotated sequence of chromosome 2 of Plasmodium falciparum was examined for genes encoding proteins that may be of interest for vaccine development. We describe here the characterization of a protein with an altered thrombospondin Type I repeat domain (PfSPATR) that is expressed in the sporozoite, asexual, and sexual erythrocytic stages of the parasite life cycle. Immunoelectron microscopy indicated that this protein was expressed on the surface of the sporozoites and around the rhoptries in the asexual erythrocytic stage. An Escherichia coli-produced recombinant form of the protein bound to HepG2 cells in a dose-dependent manner and antibodies raised against this protein blocked the invasion of sporozoites into a transformed hepatoma cell line. Sera from Ghanaian adults and from a volunteer who had been immunized with radiation-attenuated P. falciparum sporozoites specifically recognized the expression of this protein on transfected COS-7 cells. These data support the evaluation of this protein as a vaccine candidate.
Thrombospondin-bound integrin-associated protein (CD47) physically and functionally modifies integrin alphaIIbbeta3 by its extracellular domain.	Integrin-associated protein (IAP/CD47) is a receptor for the C-terminal cell binding domain of thrombospondin (TS). A peptide from the C-terminal cell binding domain, KRFYVVMWKK (4N1K) binds to IAP and stimulates the integrin-dependent cell functions, including platelet aggregation. We investigated the mechanism by which TS-bound IAP modulates the affinity of platelet integrin, alphaIIbbeta3. Platelet aggregation induced by 4N1K was not completely inhibited by energy depletion with sodium azide and 2-deoxy-d-glucose, although ADP or collagen-induced platelet response was completely inhibited. The binding of ligand-mimetic antibody PAC1 to alphaIIbbeta3 was also induced in the energy-depleted platelets. In the transfected Namalwa cells, 4N1K induced activation of the alphaIIbbeta3 with mutated beta3 (Ser-752 to Pro), which is a non-responsive form to inside-out signaling, as well as wild type alphaIIbbeta3. The truncated form of IAP with only the extracellular immunoglobulin-like (Ig) domain was sufficient for the activation of alphaIIbbeta3 in Chinese hamster ovary cells, although the IAP-mediated intracellular signaling was abolished, which was monitored by the absence of down-regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation. Furthermore, the soluble recombinant Ig domain of IAP induced PAC1 binding to alphaIIbbeta3 on Chinese hamster ovary cells when added with 4N1K. Physical association between the soluble recombinant Ig domain of IAP and purified alphaIIbbeta3 was detected in the presence of 4N1K. These data indicate that the extracellular Ig domain of IAP, when bound to TS, interacts with alphaIIbbeta3 and can change alphaIIbbeta3 in a high affinity state without the requirement of intracellular signaling. This extracellular event would be a novel mechanism of affinity modulation of integrin.
Cleavage of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (thrombospondin-5) by matrix metalloproteinases and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs.	Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) is a pentameric glycoprotein present in cartilage, tendon and ligament. Fragments of the molecule are present in the diseased cartilage, synovial fluid and serum of patients with knee injuries, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Although COMP is a substrate for several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), the enzymes responsible for COMP degradation in vivo have yet to be identified. In this study we utilised well-established bovine cartilage culture models to examine IL-1alpha-stimulated COMP proteolysis in the presence and absence of MMP inhibitors. COMP was released from bovine nasal cartilage, in response to IL-1alpha, at an intermediate time between proteoglycans and type II collagen, when soluble MMP levels in the culture medium were undetectable. The major fragment of COMP released following IL-1alpha-stimulation migrated with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 110 kDa (Fragment-110) and co-migrated with both the major fragment present in human arthritic synovial fluid samples and the product of COMP cleavage by purified MMP-9. However, the broad-spectrum MMP and ADAM inhibitor BB94 only partially inhibited the formation of Fragment-110 and failed to inhibit COMP release significantly. Therefore the results of these studies indicate a role for proteinases other than MMPs in the degradation of COMP in bovine cartilage. It was further demonstrated that purified COMP was cleaved by ADAMTS-4, but not ADAMTS-1 or -5, to yield a fragment which co-migrated with Fragment-110. Therefore this is the first demonstration of COMP as a substrate for ADAMTS-4, although it remains to be determined whether this enzyme plays a role in COMP degradation in vivo.
Histidine-rich glycoprotein binds to cell-surface heparan sulfate via its N-terminal domain following Zn2+ chelation.	Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is an alpha2-glycoprotein found in mammalian plasma at high concentrations (approximately 150 microg/ml) and is distinguished by its high content of histidine and proline. Structurally, HRG is a modular protein consisting of an N-terminal cystatin-like domain (N1N2), a central histidine-rich region (HRR) flanked by proline-rich sequences, and a C-terminal domain. HRG binds to cell surfaces and numerous ligands such as plasminogen, fibrinogen, thrombospondin, C1q, heparin, and IgG, suggesting that it may act as an adaptor protein either by targeting ligands to cell surfaces or by cross-linking soluble ligands. Despite the suggested functional importance of HRG, the cell-binding characteristics of the molecule are poorly defined. In this study, HRG was shown to bind to most cell lines in a Zn(2+)-dependent manner, but failed to interact with the Chinese hamster ovary cell line pgsA-745, which lacks cell-surface glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Subsequent treatment of GAG-positive Chinese hamster ovary cells with mammalian heparanase or bacterial heparinase III, but not chondroitinase ABC, abolished HRG binding. Furthermore, blocking studies with various GAG species indicated that only heparin was a potent inhibitor of HRG binding. These data suggest that heparan sulfate is the predominate cell-surface ligand for HRG and that mammalian heparanase is a potential regulator of HRG binding. Using recombinant forms of full-length HRG and the N-terminal N1N2 domain, it was shown that the N1N2 domain bound specifically to immobilized heparin and cell-surface heparan sulfate. In contrast, synthetic peptides corresponding to the Zn(2+)-binding HRR of HRG did not interact with cells. Furthermore, the binding of full-length HRG, but not the N1N2 domain, was greatly potentiated by physiological concentrations of Zn2+. Based on these data, we propose that the N1N2 domain binds to cell-surface heparan sulfate and that the interaction of Zn2+ with the HRR can indirectly enhance cell-surface binding.
Discovery and characterization of a novel, widely expressed metalloprotease, ADAMTS10, and its proteolytic activation.	We describe the discovery and characterization of ADAMTS10, a novel metalloprotease encoded by a locus on human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 17. ADAMTS10 has the typical modular organization of the ADAMTS family, with five thrombospondin type 1 repeats and a cysteine-rich PLAC (protease and lacunin) domain at the carboxyl terminus. Its domain organization and primary structure is similar to a novel long form of ADAMTS6. In contrast to many ADAMTS proteases, ADAMTS10 is widely expressed in adult tissues and throughout mouse embryo development. In situ hybridization analysis showed widespread expression of Adamts10 in the mouse embryo until 12.5 days of gestation, after which it is then expressed in a more restricted fashion, with especially strong expression in developing lung, bone, and craniofacial region. Mesenchymal, not epithelial, expression in the developing lung, kidney, gonad, salivary gland, and gastrointestinal tract is a consistent feature of Adamts10 regulation. N-terminal sequencing and treatment with decanoyl-Arg-Val-Lys-Arg-chloromethylketone indicate that the ADAMTS10 zymogen is processed by a subtilisin-like proprotein convertase at two sites (Arg64/Gly and Arg233/Ser). The widespread expression of ADAMTS10 suggests that furin, a ubiquitously expressed proprotein convertase, is the likely processing enzyme. ADAMTS10 expressed in HEK293F and COS-1 cells is N-glycosylated and is secreted into the medium, as well as sequestered at the cell surface and extracellular matrix, as demonstrated by cell surface biotinylation and immunolocalization in nonpermeabilized cells. ADAMTS10 is a functional metalloprotease as demonstrated by cleavage of alpha2-macroglobulin, although physiological substrates are presently unknown.
The antiangiogenic effect of thrombospondin-2 is mediated by CD36 and modulated by histidine-rich glycoprotein.	Thrombospondins-1 and -2 (TSP-1, TSP-2) are matricellular glycoproteins with potent antiangiogenic activity. We have previously shown that the antiangiogenic activity of TSP-1 is mediated by the interaction of the type I repeats (TSR) with the receptor CD36, although other domains of TSP-1 have also been implicated. We now show that the antiangiogenic activity of TSP-2, which contains three TSRs but, unlike TSP-1, lacks the capacity to activate TGF-beta, is similarly dependent on CD36. Using the corneal pocket assay we found that TSP-2 did not inhibit bFGF-induced angiogenesis in CD36 null mice. We then demonstrated that (125)[I]-TSP-2 bound to murine macrophages and that binding was diminished by 70% by anti-CD36 antibody or by using cells from CD36 null animals. Solid-phase binding studies revealed that (125)[I]-TSP-2 bound to CD36/glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins encoding the region spanning amino acids 93-120, but not amino acids 298-439. This 93-120 amino acid region, previously identified as the TSP-1 binding site, is homologous to domains on other TSP binding proteins, such as LIMP-2 and histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRGP). Finally, we showed with an immunoabsorbent binding assay that TSP-2 bound HRGP with high affinity and that HRGP blocked the antiangiogenic activity of TSP-2, acting like a "decoy" receptor. These data suggest that modulation of the TSR/CD36 system may play an important role in the regulation of the angiogenic "switch," and may provide a target for therapeutic interventions.
Binding of ADAMTS13 to von Willebrand factor.	ADAMTS13, a metalloprotease, cleaves von Willebrand factor (VWF) in plasma to generate smaller, less thrombogenic fragments. The interaction of von Willebrand factor with specific ADAMTS13 domains was characterized with a binding assay employing von Willebrand factor immobilized on a plastic surface. ADAMTS13 binding was saturable and reversible. Equilibrium binding occurred within 2 h and the half-time for dissociation was approximately 4 h. Binding to von Willebrand factor was similar with either recombinant ADAMTS13 or normal plasma ADAMTS13; plasma from a patient who lacked ADAMTS13 activity showed no binding. The stoichiometry of binding was one ADAMTS13 per two von Willebrand factor monomers, and the K(d) was 14 nm. The ADAMTS13 metalloprotease and disintegrin domains did not bind VWF detectably. ADAMTS13 truncated after the first thrombospondin type 1 repeat bound VWF with a K(d) of 206 nm, whereas ADAMTS13 truncated after the spacer domain had a K(d) of 23 nm, which is comparable with that of full-length ADAMTS13. Truncation after the eighth thrombospondin type 1 repeat reduced the binding affinity by approximately 3-fold and truncation after the seventh thrombospondin type 1 repeat in addition to the CUB domains increased the affinity for von Willebrand factor by approximately 2-fold. Therefore, the spacer domain is required for ADAMTS13 binding to von Willebrand factor. The first thrombospondin repeat also affects binding, and the C-terminal thrombospondin type 1 and CUB domains of ADAMTS13 may modulate this interaction.
Inhibitory autoantibodies against ADAMTS-13 in patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura bind ADAMTS-13 protease and may accelerate its clearance in vivo.	Many patients with acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) harbor autoantibodies that may bind and/or inhibit ADAMTS-13 proteolytic activity and accelerate its clearance in vivo.
ABT-510, a modified type 1 repeat peptide of thrombospondin, inhibits malignant glioma growth in vivo by inhibiting angiogenesis.	Anti-angiogenic therapies would be particularly beneficial in the treatment of malignant gliomas. Peptides derived from the second type 1 repeat (TSR) of thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) have been shown to inhibit angiogenesis in non-glioma tumor models and a modified TSR peptide, ABT-510, has now entered into Phase II clinical trials of its efficacy in non-glioma tumors. As microvascular endothelial cells (MvEC) exhibit heterogeneity, we evaluated the ability of the modified TSR peptide (NAcSarGlyValDallolleThrNvalleArgProNHE, ABT-510) to inhibit malignant glioma growth in vivo and to induce apoptosis of brain microvessel endothelial cells (MvEC) propagated in vitro. We found that daily administration of ABT-510 until euthanasia (days 7 to 19), significantly inhibited the growth of human malignant astrocytoma tumors established in the brain of athymic nude mice. The microvessel density was significantly lower and the number of apoptotic MvEC was significantly higher (3-fold) in the tumors of the ABT-510-treated animals. Similar results were found using a model in which the established tumor is an intracerebral malignant glioma propagated in a syngeneic mouse model. ABT-510 treatment of primary human brain MvEC propagated as a monolayer resulted in induction of apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner through a caspase-8-dependent mechanism. It also inhibited tubular morphogenesis of MvEC propagated in collagen gels in a dose- and caspase-8 dependent manner through a mechanism that requires the TSP-1 receptor (CD36) on the MvEC. These findings indicate that ABT-510 should be evaluated as a therapeutic option for patients with malignant glioma.
Depletion of the Plasmodium berghei thrombospondin-related sporozoite protein reveals a role in host cell entry by sporozoites.	The malaria parasite sporozoite stage develops in the mosquito vector and is transmitted to the mammalian host by bite. Sporozoites engage in multiple interactions with vector and host tissue on the journey from their oocyst origin to their final destination inside hepatocytes. Several malaria proteins have been identified that mediate sporozoite interactions with target tissues such as secreted and surface-associated ligands CSP and TRAP, which contain a thrombospondin type 1 repeat (TSR). Recently, we identified thrombospondin-related sporozoite protein (TRSP) in Plasmodium sporozoites, which exhibits a single TSR in its putative extracellular N-terminal region and is highly conserved among Plasmodium species. Here, we show using targeted gene disruption in the rodent malaria model Plasmodium berghei, that lack of TRSP has no effect on the asexual blood stage cycle, parasite transmission to the mosquito, sporozoite development and infection of mosquito salivary glands. However, analysis of TRSP knockout sporozoites in vitro and in vivo indicates that this protein has a significant role in hepatocyte entry and therefore liver infection. Thus, TRSP is an additional TSR-containing malaria parasite protein that is mainly involved in initial infection of the mammalian host.
