Secondary myeloid/natural killer cell precursor acute leukemia following essential thrombocythemia.	The de novo leukemic transformation of essential thrombocythemia is a rare event, and usually associated with previous treatments. We describe a patient who received treatments with nitrosourea for long-standing essential thrombocythemia and subsequently developed extramedullary tumors, tentatively diagnosed as lymphoblastic lymphoma. Combination chemotherapy was initially successful, but relapsed with marked bone marrow involvement. Surface marker analysis revealed that the tumor cells had CD5, CD7, CD33, CD34, and CD56 antigens but lacked other T-cell, and B-cell markers. Immunogenotypical studies revealed germline configurations for both T-cell receptors and immunoglobulin genes. These clinical and phenotypical features are consistent with a myeloid/natural killer cell precursor leukemia, a recently proposed distinct clinical entity. To our knowledge, this is the first report of secondary leukemia of myeloid/ natural killer cell precursor origin, and suggest that myeloid/natural killer cell precursor might be a potent target of therapy-related leukemia.
Infrainguinal bypass surgery for chronic arterial occlusive disease associated with essential thrombocythemia: report of a case.	A 63-year-old man was referred to our hospital with a 3-year history of intermittent claudication, and his angiogram showed a total occlusion of the bilateral infrainguinal arteries. In addition, based on a platelet count of 172 x 10(4)/mm(3) as well as the characteristic bone marrow findings, he was diagnosed to have essential thrombocythemia. After the platelet count and aggregation response improved on administration of ranimustine and antiplatelet agents, infrainguinal bypass surgery was performed using the saphenous vein and prosthetic grafts. The bilateral grafts had been patent for 10 months postoperatively, but his discontinuance of medication caused an acute occlusion of the prosthetic graft. The graft was salvaged with a prompt thrombectomy and, now under strict medication control, he is leading an active life.
Thrombosis and haemorrhage in polycythaemia vera and essential thrombocythaemia.	Despite decades of clinical and laboratory research, relatively little has been accomplished concerning the pathogenesis as well as the identification of risk factors for thrombosis and bleeding in myeloproliferative disorders. In polycythaemia vera, the pro-thrombotic effect of an elevated haematocrit is well established. In contrast, thrombocytosis per se has not been similarly incriminated in essential thrombocythaemia. In both conditions, advanced age and the presence of a prior event identify thrombosis-prone patients. There is increasing evidence to suggest an additional role by leucocytes that might partly explain the antithrombotic effects of myelosuppressive therapy. A substantial minority of affected patients display reduced levels of high molecular weight von Willebrand protein in the plasma during extreme thrombocytosis and it is believed that this might explain the bleeding diathesis of such patients. Recent controlled studies support the therapeutic value of hydroxyurea and aspirin in essential thrombocythaemia and polycythaemia vera, respectively. The current communication will address the incidence, phenotype, pathogenesis, risk factors, prevention, and treatment of both thrombosis and haemorrhage in these disorders.
Mutation of the prothrombin gene and thrombotic events in patients with polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia: a cohort study.	The association between a prothrombin mutation and the risk of thrombosis was analyzed in 214 patients with polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia. The rate for venous thrombotic events was 14.7/100 patient-years in patients with the prothrombin mutation compared to 0.8 in patients without the mutation (rate ratio 17.5).
When should a myeloproliferative syndrome be suggested in vascular medicine?]	Thrombotic events are frequent in polycythemia vera (PV) and in essential thrombocythemia (ET). The frequency of thrombotic complications at presentation of PV and ET is nearly 50%. The spectrum of thrombotic complications is broad: thrombosis of arteries, veins and microvessels have been reported. Venous thrombosis can involve all territories but PV and TE are the commonest underlying etiology for Budd-Chiari Syndrome and splanchnic veins thrombosis. Endogenous erythroid-colony formation may be seen in up to 78% of patients thought to have Budd Chiari Syndrome and in 48% of splanchnic veins thrombosis. Major arterial thrombotic complications occur in 20%, especially in the extremities and in cerebral circulation. Microcirculatory disturbances are common in ET, occurring in 29% at presentation and 27% during follow up. In the extremities, erythromelalgia, a characteristic syndrome of red and congested extremities with raised temperature and painful burning sensations, is noticed in 30 to 50% of TE. Other microcirculatory manifestations like acrocyanosis, blue toes, digital gangrene can occur. All of these manifestations are highly sensitive to aspirin. Cerebral microcirculatory symptoms occur in about one-third of patients: migraine, transient visual symptoms like scotomata, blurred vision are characterized by a sudden onset, a short duration and a sequential course. Three kinds of leg ulcers have been described: leg ulceration as a consequence of microcirculatory thrombosis, exceptionally, pyoderma gangrenosum, and leg ulcers attributed to side effects of hydroxyurea. Microcirculatory leg ulcers are the most common: they are painful, inflammatory and sometimes, necrotic. They heal with treatment of SMP. Hydroxyurea-induced leg ulcers are painful, fibrous and multiple in 60%. Cessation of hydroxyurea typically leads to wound healing. The Polycythemia Vera Study Group (PVSG) established diagnostic criteria for PV and TE. Because SMP can have incompletely expressed disease, other authors have proposed determination of serum erythropoietin, examination of bone marrow histology, and spontaneous endogenous colony assays for diagnosis of PV or TE. The individual thrombotic risk depends on elevated hematocrit for PV, age (> 60) and prior thrombosis for PV and TE. Congenital and acquired (antiphospholipid syndrome) thrombotic states probably increase the risk of thrombosis.
An acquired translocation in JAK2 Val617Phe-negative essential thrombocythemia associated with autosomal spread of X-inactivation.	The acquired mutation Val617Phe in the tyrosine kinase JAK2 was recently identified in most but not all patients with classical myeloproliferative disorders. We describe a cytogenetic and molecular study of a JAK2Val617Phe-negative case of essential thrombocythemia harboring the acquired translocation t(X;5)(q13;q33). We show that this involves the inactive X-chromosome and is associated with silencing of autosomal genes within the adjacent 5q minus syndrome common deleted region. This is the first documented example of autosomal gene silencing adjacent to an X-autosome breakpoint in human malignancy and such a mechanism may underlie the pathogenesis of related disorders with translocations involving Xq13.
Arterial stenosis and atherothrombotic events in polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.	Patients with polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET) are at risk of developing arterial and venous thromboembolic complications. Given the complex interaction between blood cells and the vessel wall, it is possible that atherogenesis may also be accelerated in these patients. We used Doppler arterial ultrasound to assess the presence of arterial stenosis in a cohort of PV and ET patients.
Thrombocytosis and leukocytosis interaction in vascular complications of essential thrombocythemia.	To elucidate the role of thrombocytosis, alone or in combination with standard (age, previous cardiovascular events) and novel (leukocytosis, JAK2(V617F) mutational status) risk factors, in the cardiovascular events of essential thrombocythemia (ET), we analyzed a cohort of 1063 patients. We found that a platelet count at diagnosis greater than 1000 x 10(9)/L was associated with significantly lower rate of thrombosis in multivariable analysis and, if combined with leukocytes less than 11 x 10(9)/L, pointed to a "low-risk" category with a rate of thrombosis of 1.59% of patients/year. On the contrary, the highest risk category (thrombosis rate, 2.95% of patients/year) was constituted of patients with leukocytosis, lower platelet count, and a JAK2(V617F) mutated genotype in most cases (77% vs 26% in the low-risk group), independently from standard risk factors. These data challenge the theory that elevated platelet count increases thrombosis risk in ET and suggest prospective clinical trials to support this hypothesis.
Recombinant alpha-interferons, thyroid irradiation and thyroid disease.	Recombinant alpha-interferons are used as therapeutic agents in an increasing number of benign and malignant disorders. Long-term administration of recombinant alpha-interferon as a maintenance agent is associated with a small number of adverse side-effects which are responsible for patient intolerance of this drug. These include weight loss, alopecia and chronic fatigue, anorexia and depression syndrome. This latter syndrome needs to be distinguished from thyroid disease, which is documented in this report in a number of patients on recombinant alpha-interferon therapy.
Cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia.	In a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia, related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 (22%). In 27 cases (10%) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. Hematomas, ecchymoses, petechiae, or purpura occurred in 24 (41%) of the 58 patients. Fifteen patients (26%) had erythromelalgia, in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint. Livedo reticularis, recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis, ischemic complications with gangrene, leg ulcers, or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations. Urticaria occurred in two patients, and Raynaud's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient. Platelet function may be abnormal, and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied, 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation. Knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection. Prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events.
Phase 2 study of CEP-701, an orally available JAK2 inhibitor, in patients with primary or post-polycythemia vera/essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis.	Few treatment options exist for patients with myelofibrosis (MF), and their survival is significantly shortened. Activating mutation of the JAK2 tyrosine kinase (JAK2(V617F)) is found in approximately 50% of MF patients. CEP-701 is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits JAK2 in in vitro and in vivo experiments. We conducted a phase 2 clinical study of CEP-701 in 22 JAK2(V617F)-positive MF patients (80 mg orally twice daily), and 6 (27%) responded by International Working Group criteria (clinical improvement in all cases): reduction in spleen size only (n = 3), transfusion independency (n = 2), and reduction in spleen size with improvement in cytopenias (n = 1). Median time to response was 3 months, and duration of response was more than or equal to 14 months. No improvement was seen in bone marrow fibrosis or JAK2(V617F) allele burden. Phosphorylated STAT3 levels decreased from baseline in responders while on therapy. Eight patients (36%) experienced grade 3 or 4 toxicity, and 6 (27%) required dose reduction. Main side effects were myelosuppression (grade 3 or 4 anemia, 14%; and thrombocytopenia, 23%) and gastrointestinal disturbances (diarrhea, any grade, 72%; grade 3 or 4, 9%; nausea, grade 1 or 2 only, 50%; vomiting, grade 1 or 2 only, 27%). In conclusion, CEP-701 resulted in modest efficacy and mild but frequent gastrointestinal toxicity in MF patients. The study was registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00494585.
Hydroxyurea: The drug of choice for polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.	Hydroxyurea is an old drug that is often used to control essential thrombocythemia and polycythemia vera in patients with high-risk disease. It is usually well tolerated and cheap and has been proven effective in many studies for the prevention of thrombohemorrhagic complications associated with these disorders. However, many clinicians are reluctant to use it because of the perceived risk of progression to acute leukemia. Several recent, large studies have given this drug a new lease on life. Relevant results from these studies are discussed, and the risk of leukemia is placed in perspective to demonstrate that hydroxyurea remains the drug of choice in patients with either of these disorders.
Essential thrombocythemia in a young man treated for myocardial infarction.	Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm which can cause thrombohaemorrhagic complications usually involving microvasculature. Medium-sized arterial thrombosis has been reported, but coronary occlusion usually occurs with additional risk factors, for example, smoking, hyperlipidaemia and so on. We present a case of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in a young man (29 years) with ET but without any coronary artery associated risk factors. He was successfully treated for his AMI and ET with cytoreductive treatment and has recovered well. Due to automated platelet counting, ET is being increasingly identified; early detection can prevent long-term complications, and patients can have normal life span.
Personalized management of essential thrombocythemia-application of recent evidence to clinical practice.	The World Health Organization (WHO) classification system has recently strengthened the diagnostic criteria for essential thrombocythemia (ET) by lowering the threshold platelet count, underscoring its morphological distinction from early/prefibrotic myelofibrosis (MF) and incorporating molecular markers of clonality. The International Working Group for Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) examined the clinical relevance of this process in 1104 cases of locally diagnosed 'ET' and showed worse overall, leukemia-free and fibrosis-free survival, and a higher risk of bleeding in early/prefibrotic MF (n=180) vs WHO-defined ET (n=891). The risk of thrombosis was similar between the two entities and, in WHO-defined ET, was predicted by thrombosis history, older age, cardiovascular risk factors and JAK2V617F. A prognostic model based on these risk factors identified patient groups in ET with residual risk of thrombosis, despite treatment with conventional therapy. The main objectives of the current perspective are to underscore the prognostic importance of morphological confirmation in the diagnosis of ET and provide management recommendations, in both WHO-defined ET and early/prefibrotic MF, based on observations from the aforementioned IWG-MRT and other studies. In so doing, we are fully cognizant and sympathetic of the fact that some of our recommendations need to be tested in prospective controlled studies. 
Multiple myeloma following essential thrombocythemia.	The association of essential thrombocythemia and multiple myeloma is extremely rare, with only three patients previously treated with hydroxyurea reported in the literature until now. In this paper, we report the case of a 66 year old male who developed IgG-kappa M six years after the diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia, for which he had received hydroyurea. The possible etiological and pathogenic link between both these entities is here discussed. 
Slowly progressive ischemic stroke as first manifestation of essential thrombocythemia.	We report a case of essential thrombocythemia, the only clinical manifestation of which consisted of neurologic symptoms, including anomic aphasia, tactile and painful hypesthesia in the right hand, headache, and Gerstmann syndrome, with a relatively benign and slowly progressive clinical course. Neuroradiologic examination disclosed a large ischemic area in the left temporoparietal region. Cerebral angiography revealed an occlusion of the cortical branches of the left middle cerebral artery with total sparing of the carotid vessel. These findings are discussed in relation to the possible pathogenetic mechanisms of the vascular occlusion due to abnormal platelet function in essential thrombocythemia.
Acute leukemia of megakaryocyte lineage with tumor formation. An autopsy case of patient with Down's syndrome.	In this report we present the autopsy findings of acute megakaryoblastic leukemia with tumor formation in a 2-year-old female infant with Down's syndrome. Chromosomal analysis of blast cells revealed constitutional anomaly of trisomy 21 and two other related types of abnormal clones. Flow cytometric examination revealed blast cells expressing Ia-like or HLA-DR antigens. Postmortem examination showed extensive infiltration of leukemic cells in most of the examined organs, including the bone marrow with myelofibrosis. Tumor masses in the maxillary, frontal and femoral bones and the atria of the heart had undergone massive infiltration of atypical blast cells with an increase in the reticulin network. The final diagnosis was confirmed by ultrastructural cytochemistry of the platelet peroxidase reaction as well as by immunological staining utilizing anti-platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa, antiplatelet factor 4 and anti-beta-thromboglobulin antibodies for the blast cells. It seems likely that platelet-derived growth factor, secondary to an increase in the reticulin network, plays a major role in myelofibrosis of acute megakaryoblastic leukemia with tumor formation.
Primary thrombocythemia in pregnancy: a report of two cases.	We report two cases of primary thrombocythemia diagnosed during pregnancy. One patient developed transient visual field defects. She was treated with plateletpheresis at term and delivered of a normal child by cesarean section. The second patient was not treated. Intrauterine fetal death occurred at 36 weeks' gestation from multiple placental infarcts. In cases of primary thrombocythemia, we suggest close monitoring of both mother and fetus throughout pregnancy.
Essential thrombocythaemia and peripheral gangrene.	Six patients are described in whom gangrene of one or more toes occurred as the presenting feature of essential thrombocythaemia. Spontaneous platelet aggregation was observed in platelet-rich plasma from four patients and platelet aggregation after the addition of adenosine diphosphate and collagen was highly abnormal in samples from all six. All of the patients described dramatic relief of pain within six hours of ingestion of aspirin and this coincided with disappearance of the spontaneous platelet aggregation and collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Treatment with phosphorus-32 corrected the platelet count and there were no further recurrences of peripheral vascular disease. Platelet function tests performed at the time all gave normal results. It is concluded that essential thrombocythaemia is an important and treatable cause of peripheral vascular disease.
Liver transplantation for Budd-Chiari syndrome--palliation or cure?	This report documents two cases of Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) with essential thrombocytosis and antithrombin (AT) III deficiency as underlying etiological factors. Orthotopic liver transplantation was successfully performed in both patients but with different therapeutic intention. In the patient with essential thrombocytosis, hepatic transplantation only relieved the symptoms of the predisposing thrombogenic condition; it did not cure the underlying disorder. Prophylactic long-term anticoagulation, as well as adjuvant therapy for the causative disease, remained necessary. On the other hand, in the patient with AT III deficiency, liver transplantation was curative, resulting in complete reconstitution of serum AT III activity with resolution of the hypercoagulable state postoperatively. Thus, depending on the underlying etiology, liver transplantation for BCS can be considered as palliative, necessitating long-term adjuvant therapy, or as curative, with correction of a metabolic defect.
Hemorrhage of upper digestive and respiratory tracts in children. A clinical, biological and therapeutic approach]	Haemorrhages in the upper aero-digestive tract, whether spontaneous or provoked by surgery, lead to the discovery of abnormal coagulation. A retrospective series of 43 children hospitalized for haemorrhage of the upper aero-digestive tract enabled us to evaluate the most frequent causes. Willebrand's disease, haemophilia and Glanzmann's thromboasthenia, primary haemostasis disease, made up 27.9% of the cases; acquired impaired haemostasis by thrombopathies secondary to aspirin intake accounted for 25.6%; finally the haemostasis tests were normal in 46.5% of the children. Based on clinical features and biological data, we proposed an adapted diagnostic approach and discussed therapy in light of the current literature. This study confirmed the importance of an adapted routine battery of laboratory tests and the persistent search for impaired haemostasis in children hospitalized for haemorrhage of the upper aero-digestive tract.
Familial essential thrombocythemia: clinical characteristics of 11 cases in one family.	Reports on familial occurrence of essential thrombocythemia (ET) are scanty. Many clinical and hematological aspects of familial ET have not been clarified yet. We studied 16 family members in four successive generations. By laboratory tests and bone marrow examination they were divided into a non-thrombocythemia group (n = 5) and into ET patients (n = 11). Five ET patients were asymptomatic, three patients had both vaso-occlusive and hemorrhagic symptoms, and three patients only vaso-occlusive symptoms. The platelet count ranged from 500 to 1700 x 10(9)/l. Symptoms correlated with age but not with platelet count. ADP-induced platelet aggregation distinguished best between patients and non-ET subjects. Four patients and four non-ET subjects had factor VIII:C or von Willebrand factor antigen abnormalities; all but one had blood group O. These abnormalities were not due to inherited von Willebrand's disease according to haplotype analysis. Two patients and three non-ET subjects had a bleeding diathesis. One of these two patients and all three non-ET subjects had a decreased factor VIII:C or vWF:Ag. No chromosome abnormalities were found. In conclusion, familial ET has a relatively benign course with clinical manifestations similar to nonfamilial cases, and it is probably transmitted by an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance.
Essential thrombocythemia in pregnancy]	A 30-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of thrombocythemia during pregnancy. Her leukocyte count was 10,000/microliters, Hb was 11.7 g/dl, and platelet count 181.9 x 10(4)/microliter. Bone marrow aspirate showed an increase in megakaryocytes (255/microliters). Both Ph1 chromosome and bcr rearrangement were negative. She was diagnosed as having essential thrombocythemia (ET) with pregnancy, and was treated with aspirin (150 mg/day). Her pregnancy was uneventful, but she was readmitted because of overterm pregnancy. A caesarean section was performed, and a healthy male infant weighing 3,672 g was delivered, with a platelet count of 25.5 x 10(4)/microliter. However, the uterine was atonic, and atonic hemorrhage occurred. Supravaginal hysterectomy was performed. Subsequently, intrabdominal gross hemorrhage occurred, but the bleeding was halved by platelet transfusion. Microscopic examination showed uterine infarction. We suggest that platelet count should be reduced by means of plateletpheresis or interferon-alpha throughout pregnancy with ET.
Essential thrombocythemia and central retinal vein occlusion with neovascular glaucoma.	We report a case of unilateral central retinal vein occlusion resulting from essential thrombocythemia, a rare myeloproliferative disorder with abnormally increased platelet count.
Primary biliary cirrhosis associated with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.	A case of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) associated with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is reported. The patient is a 59-year-old man. When he was 49 years old, he was diagnosed with ITP and received steroid therapy that successfully increased platelet numbers. However, the steroid therapy failed to normalize the elevated gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase. Ten years after this episode, he suffered from general itching and malaise and exhibited a gradual increase of serum biliary enzyme levels. Immunologically, IgM was increased and anti-mitochondrial antibody was positive. Histological findings of liver needle biopsy showed chronic non-suppurative destructive cholangitis, confirming the diagnosis of PBC. To date, very few PBC cases associated with ITP have been reported. Our case is the second one in Japan. PBC and ITP in our patient seemed to develop simultaneously, but the effect of steroid therapy on the two conditions was different. This result suggests that the autoimmune process may have been different in PBC and ITP in the present patient.
Prognostic and diagnostic value of endogenous erythroid colony formation in essential thrombocythemia.	Endogenous erythroid colonies (EECs), a typical characteristic of polycythemia vera (PV), could be observed in essential thrombocythemia (ET). Erythroid progenitors culture carried out in 34 previously untreated patients with unequivocal ET showed EECs in 35% of the cases. During a mean follow up of 4 years after the culture, the 12 EECs(+) and the 22 EECs(-) patients did not show any difference for a thrombotic or haemorrhagic complication, and the only one patient who showed an involvement of erythropoiesis was in the EECs(-) group.
Acute coronary occlusion and in-stent thrombosis in a patient with essential thrombocythemia.	We describe a case of essential thrombocythemia in a 34-year-old male who presented with acute anterior wall myocardial infarction and a platelet count of 2,100,000/mm3. Primary percutaneous coronary angioplasty and stenting were performed. Postangioplasty course was complicated by stent thrombosis requiring repeat coronary angioplasty and persistent femoral arterial bleeding that was treated with surgical exploration and repair. The patient was subsequently treated with platelet pheresis, acetylsalicylic acid, ticlopidine, hydroxyurea, and anagrelide without further complications.
