Thrombocytosis after prophylactic administration of enoxaparin: unexpected findings in a Polish prospective multicenter trial on the efficacy and safety of enoxaparin in the prevention of postoperative thromboembolism.	Heparin-related thrombocytopenia is a common complication of heparin administration and therefore platelet count was monitored in our study.
Idiopathic osteonecrosis in an adult with familial protein S deficiency and hyperhomocysteinemia.	We describe a 36-year-old man with familial protein S deficiency and homozygosity to the methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) thermolabile variant who had a stroke followed by an episode of idiopathic osteonecrosis that was successfully managed by surgical core decompression. The patient's symptomatic thrombophilia, as well as that of several of his first-degree relatives who also had thrombotic events, raises the possibility that the thrombophilia was a contributing factor to the development of his osteonecrosis.
Thromboembolic prophylaxis after major abdominal surgery]	To investigate the efficacy of prophylaxis modalities after major abdominal surgery.
Hormone replacement therapy: to use or not to use?	The main indication for hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is to control menopausal symptoms and improve quality of life. Ideally, withdrawal of HRT should be attempted after 4-5 years of therapy. HRT reduces fracture risk and remains appropriate therapy for osteoporosis, particularly in women with symptoms. HRT is not appropriate for primary or secondary cardioprotection. HRT leads to a small increase in breast cancer incidence, which increases with duration of therapy and age. HRT increases the risk of thromboembolism. Patient management and therapy should be reviewed annually with risk-benefit counselling.
Anticoagulation--control of heart rate--cardioversion. Therpeutic algorithm in ventricular tachycardia]	The first therapeutic step in the emergency situation absolute tachyarrhythmia in underlying atrial fibrillation is the immediate initiation of anticoagulation treatment with heparin, followed by control of the ventricular frequency. Cardioversion promises success when: atrial fibrillation < 48 hours, transesophageal echocardiography excludes a thrombus, > 3 weeks effective anticoagulation, left ventricle < 50 mm, and atrial fibrillation not longer than one year. In the emergency situation electric cardioversion is to be preferred to drug-induced cardioversion. If the pumping function is reduced, amiodarone is a safe agent for rhythm stabilization. Care must be exercised with verapamil, digitalis and adenosine in irregular broad QRS complex tachycardia and suspected WPW syndrome.
Thrombophilia and the prevention of thromboembolic complications during pregnancy and the puerperium]	Deep vein thrombosis is one of the main causes of maternal death in the Western world, pulmonary embolism, as a complication, being the immediate cause of death in most cases. Deep vein thrombosis is the end result of several, partly interrelated, inherited and acquired risk factors. Thrombophilia is the overall name for a number of specific abnormalities resulting in an increased tendency towards haemocoagulation. In order to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by thromboembolic complications in pregnant women, all women who want to become pregnant should be screened for risk factors in order to assess the a priori risk of venous thrombosis. Based on the individual thrombosis history and the presence of thrombophilia, a prophylactic policy can be determined for every pregnant woman. Currently, there are no data available from prospective and randomised trials assessing the effects of anticoagulants in pregnant women with thrombophilia.
Does anticoagulation do more harm than good?: A comparison of patients treated without prophylaxis and patients treated with low-dose warfarin after total knee arthroplasty.	A cohort of 785 patients treated without any form of thromboprophylaxis was compared with an identical group of 957 patients treated with 6 weeks of low-dose warfarin. All complications seen within 90 days of surgery were recorded. The control group had a total complication rate of 2.2%, with a death rate from thromboembolic disease of 0.0% and a total death rate of 0.2%. The warfarin group had a total complication rate of 4.7%, with a death rate from thromboembolic disease of 0.0% and a total death rate of 0.1%. Both deaths in the control group were from cardiac disease, while the death in the warfarin group was due to a massive gastrointestinal bleeding. The warfarin group had twice the infection rate of the control group.
The safety of low-molecular weight heparins for the prevention of thromboembolic events after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation.	Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) guided early cardioversion (CV) in conjunction with short-term anticoagulation has been shown to be safe, and an alternative to prolonged conventional anticoagulation therapy. Recently, low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) have been used successfully as an alternative to standard heparin therapy obviating the need for hospitalization and APTT monitoring. The aim of this study was to determine the feasibility and safety of TEE guided early cardioversion in conjunction with short-term LMWH use in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). The study group consisted of 172 consecutive patients with NVAF. Before TEE, 90 patients received LMWH (Dalteparin 2 x 5,000U) and 82 patients received standard heparin (UFH) (5,000U bolus followed by infusion to raise APTT to 1.5 times control). TEE was performed and the left atrium and left atrial appendage were examined thoroughly for the presence of thrombus. One patient from each group was excluded due to detection of a left atrial thrombus by TEE. Immediately after TEE, CV was attempted and warfarin was initiated. All patients received warfarin for one month after CV. In the LMWH group, 89 of 90 patients (98.9%) were successfully cardioverted. CV was successful in 97.5% of the patients in the UFH group. None of the patients experienced thromboembolic events during the four weeks after CV. TEE guided early CV in conjunction with short-term LMWH treatment is as safe as UFH for the prevention of thromboembolic events after CV.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage in a patient with corrected cyanotic congenital cardiopathy]	A 19-year-old man with congenital cyanotic heart disease experienced subarachnoid bleeding from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Immediate rebleeding with disordered hemostasis caused by prophylactic anticoagulation treatment was the cause of death. Medical progress in repairing congenital heart disease or attenuating its effects has increased the life expectancy of such patients. Anesthesiologists who are not specialized in this area may find themselves assuming responsibility for these patients during non-cardiac surgery of greater or lesser extension.
Pharmacokinetics of melagatran and the effect on ex vivo coagulation time in orthopaedic surgery patients receiving subcutaneous melagatran and oral ximelagatran: a population model analysis.	Ximelagatran, an oral direct thrombin inhibitor, is rapidly bioconverted to melagatran, its active form. The objective of this population analysis was to characterise the pharmacokinetics of melagatran and its effect on activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), an ex vivo measure of coagulation time, in orthopaedic surgery patients sequentially receiving subcutaneous melagatran and oral ximelagatran as prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism. To support the design of a pivotal dose-finding study, the impact of individualised dosage based on bodyweight and calculated creatinine clearance was examined.
Venous thromboembolic risk and prevention in acute medical illness.	We describe a case in which an elderly woman is hospitalised for acute medical illness and ask how this patient's risk of venous thromboembolism should be assessed and managed. Venous thromboembolism was previously regarded as a surgical problem, but occurs at least as frequently among medical patients. The risk of venous thromboembolism varies, but recent studies have provided detailed data on the risk in patients with acute medical illness, in particular those patients with acute heart failure, respiratory failure and acute infectious disease. As the evidence has accumulated, specific guidelines recommend provision of thromboprophylaxis to patients at risk. An approach to venous thromboembolic risk assessment and prevention in acutely ill medical patients is presented.
Reversal of the International Normalized Ratio with recombinant activated factor VII in central nervous system bleeding during warfarin thromboprophylaxis: clinical and biochemical aspects.	Major bleeding is a frequent and hazardous complication associated with thromboprophylaxis using vitamin-K antagonists (VKA). Suggested regimens for control of highly elevated International Normalized Ratio (INR) and hemorrhagic events during VKA treatment include administration of vitamin K, infusion of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or a prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC). In contrast, this communication present the first report on the efficacious use of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) as additional therapy in seven patients presenting with central nervous system (CNS) bleeding emergencies. Pre-treatment INRs ranged from 1.7 to 6.6, and 10 min after a single dose of rFVIIa (10-40 microg/kg) all INRs were </= 1.5. Six patients underwent drainage of the CNS hematoma and all patients survived. No untoward biochemical signs of coagulation activation were detected and no incidence of thromboembolism was observed. In ex-vivo experimental studies, profiles of continuous whole blood clot formation were evaluated by thrombelastography in 25 patients on VKA treatment (INR 1.7-4.3), demonstrating a significantly prolonged initiation phase and diminished propagation of clot formation. Ex-vivo supplementation with rFVIIa to blood of six patients returned a distinct reduction of the prolonged initiation but variable changes in the maximum velocity of clot formation. The ex-vivo experiments and our clinical data support recent suggestions that rFVIIa might substitute for infusion of FFP or PCC in acute reversal of VKA treatment.
Low-molecular-weight heparin versus a coumarin for the prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer.	Patients with cancer have a substantial risk of recurrent thrombosis despite the use of oral anticoagulant therapy. We compared the efficacy of a low-molecular-weight heparin with that of an oral anticoagulant agent in preventing recurrent thrombosis in patients with cancer.
Thromboprophylaxis can be omitted in selected patients undergoing varicose vein surgery and hernia repair.	There is no current agreement on the routine use of thromboprophylaxis in patients undergoing varicose vein surgery and hernia repair. In the authors' hospital, prophylaxis is given only to those considered to be at an increased risk. A retrospective review was conducted to determine whether it was safe to omit prophylaxis in low-risk patients.
Safety syringes can reduce the risk of needlestick injury in venous thromboembolism prophylaxis.	Patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery of the lower extremities are at high risk of developing venous thromboembolism (VTE). Pharmacologic thromboprophylaxis has greatly reduced the likelihood of VTE. The most effective medications are administered once or twice daily by subcutaneous injection, a drug delivery route associated with an increased risk of needlestick injury. Awareness of the potential lethality of needlestick injuries has increased during the past decade, resulting in the development of national safety guidelines from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration on the handling and management of needles and other sharps. This article reviews the potential risks and costs associated with needlestick injury during the administration of VTE prophylaxis in patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery. The development of novel anticoagulants and accompanying devices to prevent needlestick injury is also discussed.
Randomized clinical trial of low molecular weight heparin with thigh-length or knee-length antiembolism stockings for patients undergoing surgery.	This was a randomized clinical trial to determine the efficacy and safety of a 'blanket' protocol of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and the best length of antiembolism stocking, for every patient requiring surgery under general anaesthesia.
Should aspirin be continued in patients started on warfarin?	Clinicians frequently face the decision of whether to continue aspirin when starting patients on warfarin. We performed a meta-analysis to characterize the tradeoffs involved in this common clinical dilemma.
Two mechanical devices for prophylaxis of thromboembolism after total knee arthroplasty. A prospective, randomised study.	The optimal characteristics of pneumatic compression for mechanical prophylaxis of thromboembolism after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are not known. Our study compared two methods of calf compression, with the hypothesis that the device which provided a larger increase in peak venous velocity would produce a lower rate of thromboembolism. We performed a prospective, randomised study on 423 patients (472 knees). Duplex ultrasonography was carried out by experienced technicians who were blinded to the device used. Overall, 206 patients (232 knees) used a rapid inflation, asymmetrical compression (RIAC) device and 217 (240 knees) a sequential circumferential compression device (SCD). The rate of venous thromboembolism was 6.9% with the RIAC device compared with 15% for the SCD device (p = 0.007). The incidence of thrombi with unilateral primary TKA was 8.4% for the RIAC compared with 16.8% for the SCD device (p = 0.03). In 47 patients with a bilateral TKA, the incidence of thrombi was 4% for the RIAC compared with 22.7% for the SCD device (p = 0.05 per knee). There was a low rate of mortality and pulmonary embolism when using mechanical prophylaxis for thromboembolism after TKA. Our findings show that the use of rapid inflation, asymmetrical calf compression gave a significantly lower rate of thromboembolism.
New perspectives for anticoagulation in non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation: oral antithrombins]	Non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation (NRAF) is one among the major public health problems, because it is associated with a high incidence of stroke or systemic thromboembolism. Warfarin significantly reduces cerebral/systemic events mainly in high-risk patients; unfortunately such drug is often as well under-used in eligible patients as under-dosed in treated patients. Traditional therapy with oral anticoagulants has several disadvatages: narrow therapeutic window, and often unpredictable dose-response so that frequent monitoring of the INR is required. It is therefore crucial that patients preferences and education be integrated into the decision-making process. Physicians often underprescribe oral anticoagulants since they perceive the risk of major bleeding as unacceptable because of some well known risk factors (e.g. previous bleedings, severe hypertension), and of qualms about drug interactions or alleged poor compliance. Therefore, the development of easy-to-use antithrombotic agents is still a challenge. New agents such as oral direct thrombin inhibitors are going to hold the promise for the next future. Ximelagatran is an orally active small molecule; being the first new oral anticoagulant used in large clinical trials. This molecule has many advantages in comparison to warfarin, such as the rapid onset/offset of action, the fixed oral dose, the no need of dose adjustment or of anticoagulation monitoring, as well the lack of food/alcohol intake interference as of drug interactions. The SPORTIF III and V trials have shown that ximelagatran is not inferior to warfarin in the prevention of strokes in patients with NRAF (both persistent and paroxysmal), but a side effect--consisting in the significant elevation of liver enzymes (> 3 times the upper limit of normal) in 6% of patients--was found. Further randomized trials are clearly needed, while current data suggest that ximelagatran will be able to represent a future viable therapeutic option for prevention of thromboembolism in patients with NRAF, offering huge advantages with respect to classic oral anticoagulants.
Preventing venous thromboembolism in acute medical patients.	While extensive data support the clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of routine thromboprophylaxis in surgical patients, the use of this approach in medical patients has been controversial. However, recent data, mainly from the MEDENOX trial, support routine thromboprophylaxis in acutely ill medical patients.
Low molecular weight heparin-induced skin necrosis-a systematic review.	Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) are currently used as a standard for anti-thrombotic therapy. Skin necrosis caused by LMWH is a rare and probably under-reported complication. The aim of our systematic review is to analyse the present literature for cases of LMWH-induced skin necrosis, emphasising the pathogenesis, clinical pattern, and management of this rare side effect.
In vitro comparison of the effect of fondaparinux and enoxaparin on whole blood tissue factor-triggered thromboelastography profile.	Fondaparinux and enoxaparin are both effective and safe in preventing post-operative venous thromboembolism. However, neither of them significantly influence the conventional clotting tests. We compared the influence of clinically relevant concentrations of fondaparinux and enoxaparin on normal whole blood (WB) thromboelastographic profiles after triggering TF-pathway with minimal amount of thromboplastin. Diluted thromboplastin was added to WB samples supplemented with buffer (control), fondaparinux (0.25; 0.5; 1 microg/ml), or enoxaparin (0.1; 0.5; 1 anti-Xa IU/ml). Four parameters were analyzed, R: clotting time, K: time required to reach an amplitude of 20 mm, alpha angle: measurement reflecting clot development kinetics and MA: maximal amplitude. At concentrations used in prophylaxis, both enoxaparin (0.1 anti-Xa IU/ml) and fondaparinux (0.25 microg/ml which correspond to 0.27 anti-Xa IU/ml) significantly prolonged the R and K times, but did not significantly modify the alpha angle as compared to the control. At concentrations observed after administration of curative doses for the treatment of DVT (> or = 0.5 anti-Xa IU/ml for enoxaparin and > or = 0.5 microg/ml for fondaparinux) both drugs induced a significant increase of R and K times, and a significant decrease of the alpha angle (p < 0.05). In contrast to fondaparinux, enoxaparin at concentrations equal to or higher than 0.5 anti-Xa IU/ml significantly reduced MA. The present study provides evidence that the whole blood TF-triggered TEG assay is sensitive to the presence of clinically relevant concentrations of enoxaparin or fondaparinux. Moreover, the angle may be used in order to distinguish the effect of prophylactic and therapeutic concentrations, since it was significantly reduced by the later ones. Further studies are needed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of whole blood TF-triggered TEG assay for the monitoring of treatment with enoxaparin or fondaparinux.
Effect of low molecular weight heparin (dalteparin) and fondaparinux (Arixtra) on human osteoblasts in vitro.	The prolonged administration of heparin for prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolism has been associated with a risk of heparin-induced osteoporosis. Fondaparinux is a new antithrombotic drug that specifically inhibits factor Xa. Because of the known interactions of other antithrombotic agents with bone remodelling, the effects of fondaparinux on human osteoblasts were analysed in vitro.
Update on the prevention of venous thromboembolism.	The risk factors for venous thromboembolism (VTE), recommendations for risk stratification and prophylaxis of VTE based on risk, nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic interventions used for prophylaxis, and clinical controversies surrounding VTE prophylaxis are discussed.
Management of left atrial endocardium after extensive thrombectomy.	Thrombosis at the left atrium is a common phenomenon in patients with chronic mitral valve disease and atrial fibrillation. When thrombus organizes and evolves into chronic phase, clean thrombectomy can become a challenge during heart surgery because of dense adhesions and the lack of clean cleavage plane. Leaving residual thrombotic material or roughened endocardial surface after thrombectomy could be a potential source for further thrombosis and a nidus for thromboembolism. We recently managed such a patient successfully using extensive thrombectomy and endocardial coverage with a fresh autologous pericardial patch.
Comparing self-management of oral anticoagulant therapy with clinic management: a randomized trial.	Control of oral anticoagulant treatment has been reported to be suboptimal, but previous studies suggest that patient self-management improves control.
A new oral direct thrombin inhibitor, dabigatran etexilate, compared with enoxaparin for prevention of thromboembolic events following total hip or knee replacement: the BISTRO II randomized trial.	Dabigatran etexilate is an oral direct thrombin inhibitor undergoing evaluation for the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) following orthopedic surgery.
Systematic review of thromboprophylaxis in colorectal surgery -- an update.	The incidence of thromboembolism after colorectal surgery is higher than after general surgery. The aim of this paper is to update a systematic review addressing thrombosis prophylaxis in connection with colorectal surgery.
Ximelagatran--a promising new drug in thromboembolic disorders.	Ximelagatran is an oral direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI), the active form of which is melagatran. Approximately 20% of an oral ximelagatran dose becomes bioavailable as melagatran, which binds noncovalently and reversibly to both fibrin-bound and freely circulating thrombin. Oral ximelagatran dosing not only inhibits thrombin activity rapidly, competitively, and potently, but also delays and suppresses thrombin generation. In humans, oral ximelagatran exhibits anticoagulant, antiplatelet, and profibrinolytic effects, with only minor prolongation of the capillary bleeding time. Oral ximelagatran exhibits a stable and predictable pharmacokinetic profile during repeated dosing, with low intra- and inter-individual variation, and a low potential for interaction with other medications. It is excreted primarily as melagatran via the kidney, without unexpected bioaccumulation. Dosing requirements do not vary with age, gender, ethnicity, obesity, or food or alcohol intake. Clinical trials (total n>30,000) have evaluated oral ximelagatran in four indications: the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE, comprising deep venous thrombosis with or without and pulmonary embolism) after elective hip- or knee-replacement surgery (with approval granted by France, as the Reference Member State for the European Union); treatment and long-term secondary prevention of VTE; the prevention of stroke and other systemic embolic events associated with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; and the prevention of cardiovascular events after an acute myocardial infarction. The results of these trials suggest that the benefit-risk profile of oral ximelagatran therapy, administered at a fixed-dose without coagulation monitoring, compares favorably with that of currently approved standard therapy.
Determination of warfarin enantiomers and hydroxylated metabolites in human blood plasma by liquid chromatography with achiral and chiral separation.	An assay comprising two simple, selective and isocratic HPLC methods with UV detection was developed and validated for measuring warfarin enantiomers and all five warfarin monohydroxylated metabolites in patient blood plasma. Following liquid/liquid extraction from 1 ml of blood plasma a baseline separation of analytes was achieved on chiral (alpha(1) acid glycoprotein - AGP) and achiral (C(18)) column. Both methods were consistent (R.S.D.<6.9% for warfarin enantiomers and<8.9% for monohydroxylated metabolites) and linear (r>0.998). The limits of detection were 25 ng/ml for warfarin enantiomers, 25 ng/ml for 4'-, 10-, 6- and 7-hydroxywarfarin, 35 ng/ml for 8-hydroxywarfarin and 50 ng/ml for racemic warfarin. In a clinical study in 204 patients, it was confirmed that the assay is appropriate for evaluation of influences of genetic polymorphisms, demographic factors and concomitant drug treatment on warfarin metabolism.
Disposal of injection material used for the treatment of hepatitis C: comparison with insulin-dependent diabetes and thromboembolism.	The survey conducted in the Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur region in France in 1999 showed that 38% of patients infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) receiving interferon injections in their home were aware of the recommendations concerning the disposal of injection material and that 41% of the needles were discarded with household waste after use. The purpose of our study conducted in the Centre region of France was to ascertain how injection material used by HCV-positive patients for interferon treatment are disposed of in comparison with material used by patients injecting insulin for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) for thromboembolism.
Patient compliance with outpatient prophylaxis: an observational study.	The need for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolic disease following lower-extremity joint replacement is well documented and accepted. Although low molecular weight heparin is approved for inpatient and extended prophylaxis beyond the hospital environment, orthopedic surgeons must determine the duration of injectable low molecular weight heparin based on the period of venous thromboembolic disease risk and on patient compliance with self-administration of medication at home. Lack of confidence in patients' ability to self-administer injections may contribute to hesitancy in prescribing injectable prophylaxis. This observational study evaluated the effectiveness of a self-injection education program. Findings demonstrate that when properly instructed, patients safely and efficaciously self-administer low molecular weight heparin at home. With shorter hospital stays, self-administration of low molecular weight heparin may optimize the clinical outcomes of orthopedic patients.
Prevention of thromboembolic complications in surgery]	It is known that during the postoperative period about 25-50% operated patients develop postoperative venous thrombosis. The mechanism of development of postoperative thrombosis is promoted in surgical patients by the so-called "wound healing process" with an enhanced synthesis of fibrinogen, inhibitors of fibrinolysis and other proteins of the acute phase for release of various cytokins (IL-1, IL-6, TNF, TGF and others). The development of thrombosis is promoted also by other risk factors: advanced age, extensive surgical trauma, infection, immobility, obesity etc. Preventive administration of so-called small doses a of heparin or rather so-called low molecular heparin (LMWH) substantially reduces the risk. The authors submit also a list of drug with an antithrombotic action and rheologics.
Seeding of human endothelial cells on valve containing aortic mini-roots: development of a seeding device and procedure.	Complete covering of an artificial valvular scaffold with endothelial cells may prevent thromboembolic complications and lead to an excellent biocompatibility. For this purpose, we developed a seeding device for reproducible cell seeding on valve containing aortic roots.
Implementing guidelines for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in a large Italian teaching hospital: lights and shadows.	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains a serious complication in hospitalized patients, in spite of several published guidelines (GL) on its prevention. The objective of this study (part of the TRiPSS-2 project) was to evaluate the impact of a locally adapted GL, supported by a multifaceted implementation strategy, in improving VTE prophylaxis in a large teaching hospital.
Interventional approach to reduce thromboembolic risk in patients with atrial fibrillation ineligible for oral anticoagulation.	The annual incidence of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation averages 5% per year and increases with age, left ventricular dysfunction, hypertension, diabetes or prior stroke. Since in nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation 91% of left atrial thrombi are located in the left atrial appendage, in patients ineligible for oral anticoagulation it was suggested the percutaneous closure of left atrial appendage as a therapeutic option to reduce embolic risk. In this article we report our initial experience with this procedure, which was uneventful and efficacious at short-term follow-up. In conclusion, the interventional approach in patients with atrial fibrillation ineligible for oral anticoagulation seems feasible and promising, and deserves further investigation.
Direct thrombin inhibitors: novel antithrombotics on the horizon in the thromboprophylactic management of atrial fibrillation.	Antithrombotic agents have verified efficacy in reducing the thromboembolic risk associated with atrial fibrillation. This article focuses on the emergence of a new oral direct thrombin inhibitor, ximelagatran, into the arena of atrial fibrillation thromboprophylaxis. This review does not cover atrial fibrillation in the context of valvular heart disease. The efficacy of aspirin and warfarin will be discussed briefly.
A randomised trial of subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (CY 216) compared with intravenous unfractionated heparin in the treatment of deep vein thrombosis. A collaborative European multicentre study.	The standard treatment of deep vein thrombosis is given by continuous intravenous infusion of unfractionated heparin. This entails hospitalisation, nursing care, immobility and repeated laboratory tests (e.g. activated partial thromboplastin time [APTT], platelet count). In addition approximately 10% of patients suffer major haemorrhages. The potential advantages of a low molecular weight heparin (CY 216) given subcutaneously were explored in a randomised trial with blind quantitative evaluation of venograms. The study included 166 patients and both "therapeutic efficacy" and "intention to-treat" analyses showed that subcutaneous CY 216 in fixed doses based only on body weight was more effective on the Arnesen and Marder phlebographic scores than continuous i.v. standard heparin with daily dose adjustment according to results of coagulation tests. There was no increase in the risks of pulmonary embolism, haemorrhage or clot extension.
Multicenter evaluation of the use of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in acutely ill medical patients in Canada.	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis in acutely ill medical patients has been shown to be safe and effective. Underutilization of this patient safety practice may result in avoidable mortality and morbidity.
Anti Xa activity and prothrombinase inhibition in patients treated with two different doses of enoxaparin in gynecologic surgery.	A prospective open study was performed in a series of 547 patients undergoing gynecologic surgery. A dose of 20 mg of enoxaparin was administered to all patients 2 hours before surgery. Then patients at high risk of thrombosis (mostly oncologic surgery) received 40 mg of enoxaparin daily whereas those at moderate risk received 20 mg of enoxaparin daily. The principal aim of this prospective open study was to monitor amidolytic anti Xa activity and to study the inhibition of intrinsic prothrombinase using prothrombin consumption measurement as a simple and global test. A second aim was to investigate efficacy and tolerance of these regimens. Treatment tolerance was satisfactory with both regimens since the total incidence of bleeding was 1.8%. A single patient developed a clinically significant thrombosis during hospital stay. The results confirm and extend previous reports regarding a dose effect relationship between the dose of Enoxaparin and plasma Anti Xa activity 3 hours after s.c. injection. A significant relationship was found between Anti Xa activity and patients body weight. Interestingly a dose dependent inhibition of intrinsic prothrombinase was observed when using a one stage prothrombin consumption assay in whole blood. This test in whole blood can be considered as closer to physiological conditions than assays performed in citrated platelet rich or platelet poor plasma samples. The mechanism of intrinsic prothrombinase inhibition during prophylactic treatment with enoxaparin requires further investigation.
Anticoagulation in women with non-valvular atrial fibrillation in the stroke prevention using an oral thrombin inhibitor (SPORTIF) trials.	The risk of stroke is greater among women with atrial fibrillation (AF) than men. Warfarin protects against stroke, but treatment-related bleeding occurs more often in women than in men.
Stroke prophylaxis in atrial fibrillation: who gets it and who does not? Report from the Stockholm Cohort-study on Atrial Fibrillation (SCAF-study).	Underuse of warfarin for stroke prophylaxis in atrial fibrillation (AF) is extensive and represents a major problem in clinical practice. To identify factors associated with warfarin treatment in eligible AF patients.
A fatal case of enoxaparin induced skin necrosis and thrombophilia.	Skin necrosis caused by heparins is a rare complication. We report a case of a 71-yr-old white woman who developed painful diffuse skin lesions, most probably related to enoxaparin treatment. Other causes of skin necrosis, including heparin induced thrombocytopenia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, protein C/protein S deficiencies, anti-phospholipid antibodies, and vitamin K deficiency were less likely in this case. The concomitant combined thrombophilia possibly aggravated the patient's clinical presentation.
Retrievable vena cava filters: a review.	To examine the current literature regarding retrievable inferior vena cava filters and to discuss the appropriate indications for their clinical use.
Cardiomyopathy in pregnancy and caesarean section: four case reports.	We present the clinical details of four women with cardiomyopathy who required caesarean section. Two women had peripartum cardiomyopathy and two had hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, one of whom has had two caesarean sections. Those with peripartum cardiomyopathy were more compromised than those with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. Co-operation between obstetric and cardiac anaesthetists ensured optimum experience was available. An incremental combined spinal-epidural technique with invasive monitoring was used for three women and one received general anaesthesia. The risks and benefits of different anaesthetic techniques are discussed.
Successful percutaneous extraction of a chronic left ventricular pacing lead.	This report describes a patient with a chronic endocardial left ventricular pacing lead. To avoid the risk of future embolization, it was felt that the lead should be removed and right ventricular pacing established. The lead was carefully evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography to exclude adherent thrombus. Successful percutaneous lead extraction was accomplished without sequelae, thus avoiding the morbidity of a thoracotomy.
Antithrombotic therapy following bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement.	The life expectancy of the general population is increasing. This has meant that more elderly patients are requiring aortic valve replacement (AVR). The choice of valve replacement and its durability are important. Bioprosthetic (tissue) heart valves were introduced into clinical use in the 1960s and were developed primarily to reduce the complications associated with thromboembolism (TE) and the need for lifelong oral anticoagulation, due to their low thrombogenicity compared to mechanical prostheses. This makes them suitable for use in elderly patients (aged>65 years) and in others where the risks of anticoagulation are higher or anticoagulation is contraindicated. There is thought to be a higher risk of TE for up to 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR. Guidelines for the management of patients with valvular heart disease published by the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA), the American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) all recommend the use of an anticoagulation regimen for the first 3 months following bioprosthetic AVR. However, there is division of opinion and practice, despite these recommendations, and more recent studies have not supported the evidence for these guidelines. In this article, we review the literature on the use of anticoagulation in the first 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR.
Anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy of bioprosthetic heart valves recipients: an unresolved issue.	Improvements in the performance and longevity of biological valve prostheses have steadily increased their rates of implantation in recent years. Aortic bioprostheses, which are commonly used in the elderly or when the risks of anticoagulating are high, have generally been associated with low rates of long-term complications. Freedom from anticoagulation, therefore, represents the main theoretical advantage of biological, compared with mechanical, aortic prostheses. While a variety of anticoagulant and antiplatelet drug regimens have been described, a precise antithrombotic protocol for the early postoperative period after bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement has not been developed. There are also important differences between the international guidelines published. This review examines the clinical evidence concerning the use of vitamin K antagonist and antiplatelet therapy in the early management of the antithrombotic complications after bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement.
Standard operating procedures for the clinical management of patients enrolled in a prospective study of Inflammation and the Host Response to Thermal Injury.	As part of the National Institutes of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS)-funded Inflammation and the Host Response to Injury study, participating investigators created a database, a clinical data collection protocol, and web-based case report form. To obtain high-quality clinical endpoints for correlation with genomic data, a uniform approach to patient management between centers was required. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) were generated to minimize variability and promote a uniform standard of patient care. The SOPs are necessary to enable validation of the clinical endpoints to be used for comparison with genomic and proteomic information derived from samples of blood and tissue obtained from thermally injured patients. Participating investigators identified areas of potential practice variation and developed a set of SOPs based on available data and sound clinical principles. In the absence of sufficient clinical data to identify a single management strategy, SOPs were designed to apply the best approach to management without interfering with local standards of care. The data- collection instrument, or case report form, was constructed concurrently with the SOPs. Wherever possible, the case report form was modified to collect data that might resolve controversial management issues. Modifications in management strategies that were necessary for children are delineated as needed. Data queries and site visits were conducted to audit compliance. SOPs for 10 areas of clinical care were developed. The institution of the SOPs required minor changes in clinical practice patterns and personnel training but did not require participating centers to procure new technology or alter the utilization of clinical resources significantly. The SOPs represent current management strategies applied to the study population to reduce variation in patient management. The SOPs are easily adaptable to other burn-related clinical protocols as well as to the routine daily management burn patients.
Management of heterotopic ossification and venous thromboembolism following acquired brain injury.	To evaluate the effectiveness of interventional strategies for the common complications of heterotopic ossification (HO) and venous thromboembolism (VTE) following acquired brain injury (ABI).
Expanded surgical time out: a key to real-time data collection and quality improvement.	Some of the concepts contained here have been discussed and incorporated in another publication, but the data are entirely unique to this manuscript. (See: Transforming the Surgical "Time-Out" Into a Comprehensive "Preparatory Pause." Backster A, Teo A, Swift M, MD, Polk HC Jr, MD, FACS, Harken AH, MD, FACS. J Cardiac Surg, in press.)
Rationale for use of lower estrogen doses for postmenopausal hormone therapy.	In placebo-controlled clinical trials low dose estrogens have been shown to reduce hot flashes an average of 65%. Low dosage is effective in preventing bone loss in early menopause and both low and ultralow estrogen dosages can prevent bone loss among women many years beyond menopause. Epidemiological studies indicate less risk of cardiovascular disease and venous thromboembolism in women who use low dose estrogens compared to standard dose. Low dosages of estrogens are less likely to produce unacceptable side effects, such as vaginal bleeding or breast tenderness. When prescribing low dosage estrogen, one can safely use less progestogen, either less daily dosage or less frequent cycles. Older women on ultralow estrogen may not require regular progestogen because the endometrium is not stimulated. In conclusion, there is a strong rationale for use of lower estrogen dosage in HT. Low dosage estrogen can relieve vasomotor symptoms and can prevent postmenopausal bone loss. Women taking low dosages of estrogens are less likely to have unacceptable side effects, such as vaginal bleeding or breast tenderness. Moreover, the potential harm caused by standard dosages of estrogen with progestin, including coronary heart disease, venous thromboembolism, stroke, and breast cancer may be mitigated by use of lower estrogen doses that do not require daily or monthly progestin opposition.
Venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in emergency department admissions.	Guidelines for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis exist, yet prophylaxis is underutilized and inadequately studied in the context of emergency department admissions.
Treatment for superficial thrombophlebitis of the leg.	The optimal treatment of superficial thrombophlebitis (ST) of the legs remains poorly defined. While improving or relieving the local painful symptoms, treatment should aim at preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE), which might complicate the natural history of ST.
Oral anticoagulation for prolonging survival in patients with cancer.	A number of basic research and clinical studies have led to the hypothesis that oral anticoagulants may improve the survival of patients with cancer through an antitumour effect in addition to their antithrombotic effect.
Low-molecular-weight heparins: before or after surgery? New concepts and evidence: Congress report from the Sigma Tau/ROVI Satellite Symposium (Rome, Italy, 13 November 2006).	Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are potentially life-threatening complications associated with orthopaedic surgery. The choice of an optimal thromboprophylaxis regimen requires full understanding of the efficacy and safety profiles associated with distinct treatments. Low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) are the drugs of choice for thromboprophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery. However, there is concern regarding the timing of LMWH prophylaxis initiation. Among the LMWH molecules, bemiparin has interesting pharmacological properties: the lowest molecular weight, the longest half-life and the highest anti-FXa/anti-FIIa activity ratio. The safety and efficacy of bemiparin administered 6 hours after surgery has been demonstrated in several orthopaedic settings (including major orthopaedic surgery, knee arthroscopy, lower limb trauma and spinal surgery) and during prolonged prophylaxis after major orthopaedic surgery. Another factor to consider in relation to thromboprophylaxis during orthopaedic surgery is the cost effectiveness of bemiparin. The 91st meeting of the Italian Society of Orthopaedics and Traumatology (SIOT), held in Rome, Italy, on 12-16 November 2006, provided an exciting opportunity to present new and interesting evidence, including the latest advances in thromboprophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery. Of particular interest were the issues debated during the Sigma Tau/ROVI Satellite Symposium, which focused on the optimal timing strategy for initiating thromboprophylaxis in patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery. This article highlights presentations given during that symposium.
Dose finding study of a low molecular weight heparin, Innohep, in haemodialysis.	A pilot investigation was performed with Innohep, a low molecular weight (LMWH) preparation (peak maximum molecular mass 3,000-6,000), to determine possible dose regimens for patients undergoing regular maintenance haemodialysis for chronic renal failure. Results from this study suggested that suppression of macroscopic clot formation and fibrinopeptide A (FPA), a marker of fibrin formation, could be achieved following bolus injections rather than bolus injections and an infusion. On the basis of these preliminary findings, a randomised crossover study was performed in eight patients undergoing regular maintenance haemodialysis for 5-7 h to determine the effective antithrombotic dose of this LMWH. Single i.v. bolus doses of 1,250 AFXa u, 2,500 AFXa u and 5,000 AFXa u (n = 7-8) were compared to an UFH regime of 5,000 iu + 1,500 iu/h. Excessive clot formation in the dialyser bubble trap, necessitating additional UFH to enable completion of a prolonged (up to 7 h) dialysis, was observed in all patients on the 1,250 AFXa u dose (mean duration of dialysis prior to UFH, 3 h) but in a single patient only receiving the other LMWH doses. A dose-related response in the AFXa activity, measured by chromogenic substrate (CS) assay was seen in the three LMWH groups, with levels declining significantly (p less than 0.05) from 1-7 h. This contrasted with the constant levels maintained during dialysis with UFH. FPA levels were significantly elevated after 2 h following the 1,250 AFXa u bolus and after 4 h following the 2,500 AFXa u bolus. There was no significant difference in FPA levels between the 5,000 AFXa u bolus and UFH.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thromboembolic therapies in dogs and cats: an evidence-based approach.	In veterinary medicine, we are forced to make use of less than ideal "evidence," such as extrapolation from experimental studies in dogs and cats without naturally occurring diseases and from clinical trials in other species (particularly human clinical trials), as well as limited information gained from veterinary clinical experience, small clinical trials, case studies, and anecdotal reports. In this article, specific treatment recommendations are made for each of the common thromboembolic conditions seen in dogs and cats. These recommendations are made with the important caveat that, to date, such suggested therapeutic approaches are based on limited evidence.
Long-term management of an implantable left ventricular assist device using low molecular weight heparin and antiplatelet therapy: a possible alternative to oral anticoagulants.	Between January 2004 and December 2005, out of 14 patients with decompensated heart failure who were treated with an INCOR left ventricular assist device (Berlin Heart AG, Berlin, Germany), 10 patients were kept on a long-term regime of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and antiplatelet therapy. The treatment objective was bridge-to-transplantation. All patients received LMWH in therapeutic doses according to body weight, in combination with daily aspirin 160 mg, clopidogrel 75 mg, and three times dipyridamole 75 mg. Effectiveness of the low molecular weight regime was monitored through measurement of antifactor Xa activity (base and peak levels). Antiplatelet therapy was monitored through weekly platelet function tests. Within this group of 10 patients, six patients successfully received transplants and four patients died, the latest death after 405 days of INCOR support. Causes of death were sepsis, intestinal hemorrhage, acute right ventricular failure, and one major stroke. Long-term management of INCOR assist devices using a combination of LMWH and antiplatelet therapy is feasible. This treatment strategy can serve as an alternative to oral anticoagulants.
Thromboembolic prophylaxis in hospitalized medical patients]	The risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) ranges between 15 and 40% for patients hospitalized for certain medical conditions. Clinical studies have shown that prophylactic treatment with low molecular weight heparins (LMWH) reduces the risk of VTE from 15 to 6%. The aim of this study was to evaluate the use of thromboprophylaxis among hospitalized medical patients after the introduction of clinical guidelines.
Challenges in managing anticoagulant therapy in patients with heart valve prostheses.	There is a wide array of recommendations for the management of anticoagulant therapy in patients with mechanical heart valves. The optimal intensity of vitamin K antagonists, management of patients during noncardiac surgery and use of anticoagulants during pregnancy are all ongoing matters of debate. In this review, we discuss the various studies on these topics and the different guidelines. Based on these, literature recommendations for daily clinical practice are formulated.
Warfarin prevalence, indications for use and haemorrhagic events.	Warfarin, the standard oral anticoagulant drug used in Ireland, is a widely prescribed medication, particularly in the elderly. A HSE Mid-Western Area wide audit was undertaken over a 12-month period to examine the prevalence and indications for warfarin use and haemorrhagic complications associated with the drug. Every patient receiving warfarin therapy over a 13-week period was included (2564). The age standardised rate varied from 0.09% of 35-39 year olds to 6.1% of 80-84 year olds. Atrial fibrillation was the most common indication (54%) in patients attending the Mid-Western Regional Hospital anticoagulation clinic. The annual cumulative incidence of adverse haemorrhagic events in patients with a recorded INR > or = 5.0 episode was 16.6%. The incidence of major and minor haemorrhagic events per INR > or = 5.0 episode was 1.3% and 15.3% respectively. The most common sites of haemorrhage were genitourinary (39%) and gastrointestinal (27%). No fatal or intracranial haemorrhage relating to episodes of over-anticoagulation were reported during the audit period. The most frequent reason for over-anticoagulation was drug interaction (43%). In 74% of patients, the elevated INR was reversed by omitting or reducing warfarin dose. In 17% of cases, vitamin K was administered. Only 3% of incidents were treated with fresh frozen plasma or prothrombin complex concentrates.
Prevention of thromboembolism in 190 hip arthroplasties. Comparison of LMW heparin and placebo.	Prophylactic efficacy and safety of a low molecular weight (LMW) heparin against postoperative thromboembolic complications were investigated in a double-blind, randomized study. Totally, 210 consecutive patients undergoing total hip replacement were allocated to two groups. Patients in the heparin group received 50 IU anti-Xa per kilo body weight of Logiparin once daily, and patients in the placebo group received one daily injection of saline. Additional prophylaxis in all the patients was thigh-length compression stockings beginning on the day of the operation. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by bilateral ascending phlebography between Days 8 and 10 after the operation. Twenty patients were excluded from the evaluation. Thirty of 93 patients in the heparin group compared with 45 of 97 patients in the placebo group suffered a thromboembolic complication during the study (P = 0.02). The postoperative blood loss and total number of blood transfusions in the heparin group were higher than in the placebo group. However, the observed differences were of no clinical importance. Adverse effects, including bleeding complications and wound hematomas, were observed in 13 heparin patients and 7 placebo patients (NS). One patient in each group died. Thrombo-prophylaxis with LMW heparin once daily was safe and more effective than the placebo in patients undergoing total hip replacement.
Laboratory and clinical outcomes of pharmacogenetic vs. clinical protocols for warfarin initiation in orthopedic patients.	Warfarin is commonly prescribed for prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolism after orthopedic surgery. During warfarin initiation, out-of-range International Normalized Ratio (INR) values and adverse events are common.
Factors influencing hospice thromboprophylaxis policy: a qualitative study.	Despite level 1 evidence supporting the use of low-molecular weight heparin thromboprophylaxis in hospitalised cancer patients, only 7% of specialist palliative care units (SCPU) have thromboprophylaxis guidelines. The reasons for this are unclear. To explore specialist palliative care units (SPCU) directors' views on thromboprophylaxis in the inpatient unit, audiotaped semi-structured interviews were conducted with SCPU medical directors to explore factors influencing thromboprophylaxis practice. Purposive sampling of units known not to have thromboprophylaxis guidelines was conducted (as identified from previous research). The hospice directory was used to sample from units in each region of Great Britain and Ireland to ensure representation across the specialty. Interviews were transcribed and analysed using interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA). Four major and four sub themes were identified. Participants were progressive in their attitudes to palliative care and comfortable with instigating active interventions for patient benefit. Symptomatic venous thromboembolism (VTE) was rarely seen and therefore not considered important enough to warrant guidelines. There was concern that evidence informing thromboprophylaxis guidelines in the general population was not transferable to the advanced cancer population and that the outcome measures from these studies were less meaningful to a palliative care patient. Thromboprophylaxis was considered a life prolonging intervention which may result in a poorer death than one because of VTE. Nevertheless, participants were receptive to change if presented with convincing evidence derived from a representative population. Until the true prevalence and symptomatic burden of VTE is known, the role of thromboprophylaxis in the SPCU setting will remain controversial. There is a need for a well-designed study to explore the utility of thromboprophylaxis in the palliative care inpatient setting. However, this will require meaningful outcome measures to be used within a clinically applicable population.
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe?	Trauma patients who require therapeutic anticoagulation pose a difficult treatment problem. The purpose of this study was to determine: (1) the incidence of complications using therapeutic anticoagulation in trauma patients, and (2) if any patient factors are associated with these complications.
Low-intensity anticoagulation in mechanical cardiac prosthetic valves.	Retrospectively, we reviewed the charts of 101 patients at the University of Kansas Medical Center who received low-intensity anticoagulation for mechanical prosthetic valves implanted over a 17-yr period. The mean duration of follow-up was 4.6 yr, and the total duration of follow-up was 466.5 patient-yr. The patients' records were evaluated for evidence of hemorrhagic or thromboembolic complications. A prothrombin time ratio of 1.3 to 1.5 times control was considered to be low-intensity anticoagulation. There were three thromboembolic events or 2.9/100 patient-yr of follow-up at a prothrombin time ratio of less than 1.3, four thromboembolic events or 2.5/100 patient-yr of follow-up at 1.3 to 1.5 times control, four thromboembolic events or 2.2/100 patient-yr of follow-up at 1.6 to 2.0 times control, and no thromboembolic events at prothrombin time ratios greater than 2.0 times control. Hemorrhagic events occurred in three patients at a prothrombin time ratio of less than 1.3 times control or 2.8/100 patient-yr of follow-up, in six patients at 1.3 to 1.5 times control or 3.8/100 patient-yr of follow-up, in ten patients at 1.6 to 2.0 times control or 5.5/100 patient-yr of followup, and in two patients at 2.1 to 2.5 times control or 12.2/100 patient-yr of follow-up. The rate of hemorrhagic events at 2.5 times control was 470/100 patient-yr follow-up. While not providing definitive proof, we believe that our retrospective study provides supportive evidence for the use of low-intensity anticoagulation in patients with mechanical cardiac prostheses.
Changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill: implications for major surgery.	To investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill.
Comparison of two levels of anticoagulant therapy in patients with substitute heart valves.	After cardiac valve replacement patients were blindly randomized into two groups, both receiving aspirin (330 mg) and dipyridamole (75 mg) twice daily and the oral anticoagulant acenocoumarol (Sintrom). An international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 2.99 was assigned to group A and 3.0 to 4.5 to group B; both groups were subsequently analyzed for thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications. Final evaluation included 51 and 48 patients, respectively. The follow-up was 626 months for group A (12.3 months/patient) and 486 months for group B (10.1 months/patient). The frequency of thromboembolism was equal in both groups: one transient ischemic attack in group A (a rate of 1.92/100 patient-years) and two transient ischemic attacks in group B (a rate of 4.94/100 patient-years). There was, however, a statistical difference in bleeding complications between the two groups (p less than 0.02). Two patients bled in group A, a rate of 3.9% (3.8/100 patient-years), which represents an incidence of one episode each 25.6 years of treatment; 10 patients bled in group B, a rate of 20.8% (24.7/100 patient-years) representing an incidence of one episode each 4 years of treatment. We conclude that an international normalized ratio of 2 to 3 is safer than a ratio of 3 to 4.5 and confers good protection from thromboembolism when oral anticoagulant therapy is used conjointly with platelet function-inhibiting drugs in patients with mechanical substitute heart valves.
Prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism in surgical patients.	Venous thromboembolic disease is a common, potentially life-threatening, but preventable complication of surgery. Venographic studies have shown a high incidence of deep vein thrombosis in patients who do not receive prophylaxis. The long-term sequelae of deep vein thrombosis in these patients can be disabling, but the exact prevalence of post-thrombotic complications has not been well documented. Fatal pulmonary embolism has been reported in 0.5% to 1% of patients after major abdominal surgery and in 2% to 6% after total hip replacement. Several methods of prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism have demonstrated efficacy, but a surprising number of patients still do not receive prophylaxis. A medical record review in 16 hospitals recently disclosed that only 32% of high-risk patients received prophylaxis, with a range from 9% in a community hospital to 56% in a major teaching hospital. The possible reasons for this comparatively low rate of utilization are discussed. Current issues and future trends in the prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism are briefly summarized.
An overview of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis.	This symposium reviewed the risk factors and problems associated with venous thromboembolism in surgical patients, especially those patients having total hip replacement. The importance of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis was emphasized by a theoretical analysis indicating that venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement not only saves lives but is also effective. A discussion of the pharmacology of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) included a review of its role, clinically and experimentally, in venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. Three of the discussants presented their favorable experiences with LMWH in reducing the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement. It can be concluded that LMWH does reduce the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement without causing an increase in blood loss. If its effectiveness and safety remain substantiated, LMWH may soon become the preferred agent for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis.
Physicians' perceptions of the definition of major bleeding in major orthopedic surgery: results of an international survey.	Decisions regarding choice of thromboprophylaxis in patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery are based on assessment of individual patient risk for thrombosis versus risk for bleeding. An international survey sought physician views on definitions and relative importance of different types of major bleeding. A random sample of physicians from five countries (100 physicians per country, mainly surgeons) completed an internet-based 13-question survey on perceptions, concerns, and relevance of bleeding associated with thromboprophylaxis in major orthopedic surgery. Over 80% of responders were concerned or very concerned about bleeding with >70% considering surgical-site bleeding as the most concerning, and relevant type and site for bleeding. Nearly 80% of responders considered surgical-site bleeding to increase patient length of hospital stay, and >70% noted that it complicates patient rehabilitation. After fatal bleeding, bleeding leading to re-operation was ranked as the most concerning type of major bleed. Less than half of responders reported closely reading the major-bleeding definitions in clinical study publications. Most responders favored anticoagulants that could offer a reduced bleeding risk and similar venous thromboembolism (VTE) prevention compared to current anticoagulants rather than a decrease in VTE and similar bleeding risk. There is a disconnect between the definitions of major bleeding that surgeons would apply to describe bleeding associated with VTE thromboprophylaxis, and those used in clinical studies reporting the safety profiles of newer anticoagulant agents. Misperceptions about the benefit-to-harm profiles of thromboprophylactic therapies may incorrectly inform treatment choices in patients at high risk for post-operative VTE.
Bioavailability of fondaparinux to critically ill patients.	Venous thromboembolism is a common problem in the intensive care unit (ICU). To decrease its incidence, prophylactic pharmacologic interventions are part of the ICU routine. However, common ICU conditions may impair the bioavailability of subcutaneously administered agents. The present study evaluates the bioavailability of prophylactic subcutaneous fondaparinux to critically ill patients.
Feasibility of closed-chest ligation of the left atrial appendage in humans.	Atrial fibrillation is associated with an increased risk of embolic events. The left atrial appendage (LAA) is believed to be an incubator for thrombus formation. LAA exclusion has been advocated to potentially reduce embolic events arising from the LAA.
Evidence-based practice: caring for a patient undergoing total knee arthroplasty.	More than 500,000 total knee arthroplasty (TKA) surgeries were performed in 2006 and the number is expected to continue to increase (S. ). A background in evidence-based nursing care will assist any nurse assigned in caring for a postoperative TKA patient. Strong pain assessment and reassessment skills with an understanding of multimodal pain management benefits pain control and patient recovery from TKA surgery. Safe mobilization and therapy techniques that reflect evidence-based practice will keep patients safe. Providing nursing interventions that prevent complications from infections or thromboembolism will reduce never events from occurring. This article will present evidence for the care of a postoperative TKA patient.
Minor bleeds alert for subsequent major bleeding in patients using vitamin K antagonists.	Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) are effective in primary and secondary prevention of thromboembolism, but the associated risk of bleeding is an important limitation. The majority of bleeds are clinically mild. In this study, we assessed whether these minor bleeds are associated with major bleeding, when controlling for other important risk indicators, including the achieved quality of anticoagulation. For this, 5898 patients attending a specialized anticoagulation clinic were retrospectively studied for 1 year after initiation of VKA therapy. The risk of major bleeding was estimated using a multivariate piecewise exponential model with time-varying exposure for occurring minor bleeds. In patients with a minor bleed (N=1015) subsequent major bleeding occurred more frequently than in patients without a minor bleed (N=4883), with an incidence rate of 23 [95% confidence interval (CI) 14-37] vs. 12 per 100 person-years (95% CI 09-17). The adjusted relative risk of subsequent major bleeding after a minor bleed was 29 (95% CI 11-72, P=0024). The percentage of time that a patient had an International Normalized Ratio (INR) above 5 was also independently associated with major bleeding, with a 22-fold increased risk in patients with at least 9% of time above INR 5 (95% CI 13-40, P=0006). Minor bleeds alert for subsequent major bleeding, independent of the quality of anticoagulation.
Individualizing hormone therapy to minimize risk: accurate assessment of risks and benefits.	Contrary to the exaggerated risks associated with HRT that developed after the initial press reports held by the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) writing group, the recent approach to hormone therapy is more balanced and evidence based. A review of over 40 years of scientific studies demonstrates that estrogen is a medication that can decrease mortality, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis fracture, urogenital atrophy and dementia. When timing of administration, dose of therapy and route of administration are considered, estrogen is associated with low risks and substantial benefits. The decision of whether or not to take HRT for either short symptom relief or for long-term therapy, should be based on an accurate risk-benefit analysis. Adjusting the dose of therapy and considering a transdermal approach, particularly in high-risk patients, are important considerations.
Management of a dentigerous cyst in a medically compromised geriatric patient: a case report.	Because of the increasing number of older persons seeking dental care, the growing trend towards a longer dental appointment and increased administration of drugs in dentistry, the possibility of occurrence of medical emergencies in dental offices has shown an upward trend.
Risk of bleeding associated with use of systemic thromboembolic prophylaxis during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.	The extent to which systemic perioperative thromboembolic prophylaxis affects peroperative and postoperative bleeding during cholecystectomy is not known. This article reports on risk of bleeding in a national cohort of cholecystectomies.
Thromboembolism and antithrombotic therapy for heart failure in sinus rhythm: an executive summary of a joint consensus document from the ESC Heart Failure Association and the ESC Working Group on Thrombosis.	Chronic heart failure (HF) with either reduced or preserved left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction is common and remains an extremely serious disorder with a high mortality and morbidity. Many complications related to heart failure can be related to thrombosis. Epidemiological and pathophysiological data also link HF to an increased risk of thrombosis, leading to the clinical consequences of sudden death, stroke, systemic thromboembolism and/or venous thromboembolism. This executive summary of a joint consensus document of the Heart Failure Association (EHFA) of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and the ESC Working Group on Thrombosis reviews the published evidence, summarises 'best practice', and puts forward consensus statements that may help to define evidence gaps and assist management decisions in everyday clinical practice. In HF patients with atrial fibrillation, oral anticoagulation is clearly recommended, and the CHA2DS2-VASc and HAS-BLED scores should be used to determine the likely risk-benefit ratio (thromboembolism prevention versus risk of bleeding) of oral anticoagulation. In HF patients with reduced LV ejection fraction who are in sinus rhythm there is no evidence of an overall benefit of vitamin K antagonists (e.g. warfarin) on mortality, with risk of major bleeding. Whilst there is the potential for a reduction in ischaemic stroke, there is currently no compelling reason to routinely use warfarin for these patients. Risk factors associated with increased risk of thromboembolic events should be identified and decisions regarding use of anticoagulation individualised. Patient values and preferences are important determinants when balancing the risk of thromboembolism against bleeding risk. Novel oral anticoagulants that offer a different risk-benefit profile compared with warfarin may appear as an attractive therapeutic option, but this would need to be confirmed in clinical trials.
Role of the new target specific oral anticoagulants in the management of anticoagulation for cardioversion and atrial fibrillation ablation.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most prevalent arrhythmia in United States. Patients with AF are at increased risk of thromboembolic events. This risk is even higher with cardioversion and ablation, especially during periprocedural period. Conventional approaches using heparin and warfarin have been successfully studied to mitigate thromboembolic risk. However, these approaches are with certain inherent limitations. The advent of new target specific oral anticoagulants (TSOAs) may overcome some of the impediments of conventional therapies and provide an alternative for anticoagulation for cardioversion and AF ablation. We will review the role of the new TSOAs in the current anticoagulation strategies to reduce the risk of thromboembolic events associated with cardioversion and AF ablation. 
Antiplatelet and anticoagulation for patients with prosthetic heart valves.	Patients with prosthetic heart valves are at increased risk for valve thrombosis and arterial thromboembolism. Oral anticoagulation alone, or the addition of antiplatelet drugs, has been used to minimise this risk. An important issue is the effectiveness and safety of the latter strategy.
Enhancing the informed consent process for critical care research: strategies from a thromboprophylaxis trial.	Critically ill patients lack capacity for decisions about research participation. Consent to enrol these patients in studies is typically obtained from substitute decision-makers.
Efficacy and safety of erythropoietin and intravenous iron in perioperative blood management: a systematic review.	The use of erythropoietin (EPO) and intravenous (IV) iron as bloodless therapeutic modalities is being explored in the current era of restrictive transfusion strategies and perioperative blood management. It is unclear, however, whether the evidence in the literature supports their safety and efficacy in reducing perioperative red cell transfusions. Adhering to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines, we conducted a systematic review to evaluate their use in a variety of perioperative settings. We performed a literature search of English articles published between July 1997 and July 2012 in MEDLINE via PubMed, The Cochrane Library, and CINAHL. Only studies with a comparator group were eligible for inclusion. Twenty-four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and 15 nonrandomized studies were included in the final review. Using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, 8 RCTs were assessed to be at low risk for methodological bias. Of these, however, only 4 RCTs were adequately powered to detect a reduction in transfusion rates. Patients with preoperative iron deficiency anemia may have an earlier and more robust hemoglobin recovery with preoperative IV iron therapy than with oral iron supplementation. A short preoperative regimen of EPO, or a single dose of EPO plus IV iron in the preoperative or intraoperative period, may significantly reduce transfusion rates (number needed to treat to avoid any transfusion ranged from 3 to 6). With regard to the safety of erythropoietin-stimulating agent therapy, IV iron appears to be as well tolerated as oral iron; however, the incidence of severe anaphylactic-type reactions attributable to IV iron is difficult to estimate in prospective trials because of its relatively infrequent occurrence. Furthermore, EPO may increase the risk of thromboembolism in spinal surgery patients who receive mechanical antithrombotic prophylaxis in the perioperative period so pharmacological thromboprophylaxis is advised. Future low risk of bias, adequately powered prospective efficacy, and safety trials in various surgical settings that traditionally require red cell transfusions would be required to make evidenced-based conclusions about the clinical significance of erythropoietin-stimulating agent as a transfusion avoidance strategy in perioperative blood management. 
Novel oral anticoagulants for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolism.	Over the last 5 years, new oral anticoagulant options, including dabigatran, rivaroxaban and apixaban, have become available. Prior to this, vitamin K antagonists were the sole oral anticoagulants, which have been in use for more than 60 years. These novel agents have been studied in a variety of patient populations, including atrial fibrillation, acute coronary syndrome, treatment of venous thromboembolism and thromboprophylaxis. Compared with standard care, these agents have largely been found to be noninferior or superior for efficacy end points, with similar or improved rates of bleeding. As a result, these agents have become attractive alternatives to vitamin K antagonists for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disease. This article provides a summary of clinical trial data to help clinicians determine which agent is most appropriate for a given patient. 
Organizing patient-centred anticoagulant therapy.	The advent of new oral anticoagulants (NOACs) is transforming the care of patients in need of anticoagulant therapy. NOACs offer the opportunity to provide patients with more effective, safer and more convenient anticoagulant therapy but there are still pitfalls and hurdles.
Efficacy and safety of apixaban in patients after cardioversion for atrial fibrillation: insights from the ARISTOTLE Trial (Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation).	The aim of this study was to determine the risk of major clinical and thromboembolic events after cardioversion foratrial fibrillation in subjects treated with apixaban, an oral factor Xa inhibitor, compared with warfarin.
Comparative evaluation of methods of preventing postoperative thromboembolic complications in patients with prostatic adenoma]	An analysis of treatment of 148 patients has shown that a combination of reopolyglucin and small doses of heparin when used against the background of the hemodilutional infusion-transfusion means reduced incidence of thrombosis from 48.4% to 3.6%.
Combined use of warfarin and oral P2Y12 inhibitors in patients with atrial fibrillation and acute coronary syndrome.	Although atrial fibrillation (AF) occurs frequently in patients hospitalized with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), strategies for prevention of thromboembolic complications are poorly characterized.
Significance of drug prevention of thromboembolism in urologic risk patients]	The phlebothrombosis and pulmonary embolism are severe postoperative complications. Urological patients are particularly at risk with thrombosis. Therefore it becomes necessary for urology to perform a consequent prophylaxis of thromboembolism which, when an increased risk is present, must contain medicamentous measures. As it is confirmed by evident studies, the low-dose heparin prophylaxis proved as optimum method. A still more effective thrombosis protection can be achieved by the combination of small heparin doses with dihydroergotamine. Retrospectively, 2 comparable groups of urological risk patients with and without heparin prophylaxis were examined. In the adenomectomies under heparin prophylaxis a trend to the reduction of the events of postoperative thromboembolism is revealed. The heparin prophylaxis does not lead to an increase of complications of haemorrhages which need therapy. The prophylaxis of thromboembolism with heparin and a heparin-DHE-combination, respectively, is recommended for the application in urological risk patients.
Pregnancies complicated by previous thromboembolic disease.	The correct management of pregnancies complicated by previous thromboembolism is still very unclear. This review attempts to clarify the available information.
Feasibility and safety of uninterrupted rivaroxaban for periprocedural anticoagulation in patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation: results from a multicenter prospective registry.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of uninterrupted rivaroxaban therapy during atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation.
Bleeding rate during oral surgery of oral anticoagulant therapy patients with associated systemic pathologic entities: a prospective study of more than 500 extractions.	Oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) patients have international normalized ratio (INR) safety windows for oral surgery, the lower limit of which is determined by the thromboembolic risk, with the upper limit typically 3.0. We sought to assess whether these limits will also be true with comorbidities that favor bleeding, such as diabetes, liver disease, and chronic renal failure.
Low-dose heparin in the prevention of thrombotic complications following acute myocardial infarction.	103 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), disqualified for thrombolytic treatment, were randomized into two groups. Group I received 5000 IU of heparin (subcutaneously, twice daily) for 14 to 21 days. Group II was without anticoagulant prophylaxis. Patients were evaluated for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) using radiofibrinogen uptake test and for the presence of intracardiac mural thrombus (ICT) by two-dimensional echocardiography (50 patients). The incidence of DVT was 4% in group I and 19% in group II. ICT was diagnosed in three patients (13%) of group I and in 10 patients (45%) of group II. Five patients under heparin prophylaxis and 6 non-anticoagulant patients died in the hospital of cardiac causes. There were no bleeding complications. Low-dose heparin seems to be an effective prophylaxis of thrombotic complications in patients with AMI.
Complications following preventive treatment of thromboembolism with Dihydergot-heparin]	The observation of two cases of ergotism after administration of dihydroergotamine (Dihydergot-heparin (DHEH], led to review of the literature concerning documentation of the use of this drug in postoperative thromboembolism prophylaxis and the incidence of complications to this treatment. DHE is supposed to exert a selective constrictive effect on veins. There are now, however, numerous reports of ergotism because of arterial spasm. Some authors find better thromboembolic prophylactic effect, when DHE is used in combination with low-dose heparin (LDH) while others cannot show any advantages of using this drug. Several trials show that the best method for thromboembolic prophylaxis consists of graduated supportive stockings (TED) combined with LDH. The use of DHE in postoperative thromboembolism prophylaxis cannot be recommended. TED combined with LDH should be preferred.
Surgical consideration of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms]	During the recent 18 and a half years, 30 cases of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (including four cases of A-V fistula) were operated at Saiseikai Utsunomiya Hospital. In 26 cases, a conventional graft replacement was performed. In other four cases, axillo-bifemoral bypass (in the cases ruptured into the colon) or other methods were used. Overall operative mortality rate was 26.7%. However, during the last 9 years, operative results were improved (21.7%, 5 deaths out of 23 cases). Amount of intraoperative blood loss influenced the operative results greatly. Other operative risk factors included preoperative shock, preoperative severe cerebrovascular or cardiovascular complications, and postoperative thromboembolism. Factors of recent improvement in mortality included; establishment of emergency system which resulted in earlier operation after the patient's arrival at the hospital, use of occlusive balloon for bleeding control, heparin administration before the aortic clamp for preventing peripheral thromboembolism and introduction of autotransfusion system for reducing the amount of blood transfusion.
Effects of DN-9693, a new metastasis inhibitor, on murine hematogenous metastasis.	1,5-Dihydro-7-(1-piperidinyl)-imidazo[2,1-b]quinazolin-2(3H)-one dihydrochloride hydrate (DN-9693), a new c-AMP: phosphodiesterase inhibitor was examined for its inhibitory effects on platelet aggregation induced by metastasizing tumor cells and on blood-borne metastases of these tumors. 1-3 microM of DN-9693 completely inhibited platelet aggregation induced by B16 melanoma subline BL6 and Lewis lung carcinoma (3LL) cells. Platelets prepared from mice intravenously or orally administered with DN-9693 failed to aggregate after the addition of BL6 cells. Intravenous injection of DN-9693 was effective in protecting the mice inoculated with 1 X 10(6) BL6 cells against acute pulmonary embolic death. Either intravenous or oral administration of DN-9693 (1-10 mg/kg) sufficiently suppressed thrombus formation and subsequent pulmonary metastasis caused by intravenously inoculated BL6 or 3LL cells. Spontaneous pulmonary metastasis of 3LL was also inhibited by DN-9693. Continuous administration of DN-9693 during and after surgical excision of the primary tumors was the most effective treatment against the development of pulmonary metastases of 3LL.
Ambulatory long-term prevention of thromboembolism with low-molecular weight heparin]	Patients with severe bleeding complications and other side effects on conventional anticoagulants and strong indication for further anticoagulation were treated with a low molecular weight heparin fragment (Tedelparin). In this paper we report the experiences in 30 patients, who were anticoagulated 1-11 months with this compound. All patients injected themselves a dose ranging from 1 X 2,500 to 1 X 20,000 anti factor Xa units per day. Within 132 months of treatment one patient with good compliance developed thromboembolism. Four patients had bad compliance. Two of them experienced rethrombosis 1 and 8 weeks after starting therapy. Severe haemorrhages did not occur. Two patients had one minor bleeding complication each. Both patients developed several times per year severe haemorrhages with conventional anticoagulants. All excessive subcutaneous haematomas and indurations of the adipose tissue at the injection site of conventional heparin disappeared completely. Low molecular weight heparin can be regarded as an alternative anticoagulant in patients with severe bleeding and other complications on oral anticoagulants and conventional heparin.
Management of pregnancy in women with antithrombin III congenital defect: report of four cases.	Four pregnant women with antithrombin III congenital deficiency underwent thrombosis prophylaxis including oral anticoagulants administered from the 16-18th week to the 36-37th week of pregnancy, subcutaneous heparin before the 16-18th week and after the 36-37th week, and a single infusion of AT III concentrate in the peripartum period in order to obtain a minimal level of 0.8 U/ml of AT III functional activity. The level of circulating AT III after the concentrate infusion needs to be evaluated by functional methods, because of a consistent amount in the concentrates of inactive AT III immunoreactive material. No thrombotic or haemorrhagic complication occurred after starting prophylaxis in any woman either in any newborn.
Prevention of arterial thromboembolism with acetylsalicylic acid. A controlled clinical study in patients with aortic ball valves.	Prevention of arterial thromboembolism with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) was studied in 148 patients with single Starr-Edwards aortic ball-valve prostheses. These patients are suitable for such a study because they have a high incidence of arterial emboli derived mainly from thrombi formed on the valves. They were given either 1 Gm. of ASA daily or placebo in combination with anticoagulants, and were observed for 2 years. Only two emboli occurred in patients receiving ASA, none of them severe. In the placebo group 12 thromboembolic episodes were diagnosed in 10 patients, and three with cerebral emboli died; in one a subdural hematoma unrelated to the embolus was found. In addition, one fatal and the one nonfatal intracranial bleeding occurred in each group, whereas gastrointestinal complications were seen more frequently in patients taking ASA. It is concluded that ASA combined with anticoagulants offered a significantly better protection against arterial thromboembolism than did anticoagulant therapy alone.
Management of recurrent venous thromboembolism.	We have described our current criteria for selecting those patients with acute V T-E who merit long-term protection, for accomplishing the acute to long-term transition efficiently and for deciding when such protection can be interrupted. Naturally, in individual patients, special circumstances may exist which alter these decisions. Also, it is evident that additional studies are needed so that this sequence of decision-making can be improved. Our current approach contains a number of rather arbitrary components. Furthermore, if effective thrombolytic therapy does become available, we will need to reevaluate current criteria for long-term protection from recurrence.
Hypogastric vein ligation during oncologic surgery as thromboembolic disease prevention.	Pulmonary embolism and vein thrombosis are frequent and dangerous complications in pelvic surgery. They can be the cause of death in 0.01%-0.87%. The Authors have used, since 1973, as vein thrombosis prophilaxis (VTP): early mobilization, physiotherapy, elastic compressive stocking plus pharmacologic therapy. Since 1975, according to Heidrich and Thomas researches, they have also adopted hypogastric vein ligation (HVL) in high risk patients, because those Authors underlined a primitive responsibility of the hypogastric district (mainly the left one). The Authors mortality rate after the introduction of HVL seemed very low. However, since Jan. '86, they have divided the high risk patients in 3 group (R), in order to collect statistically significant data in the usefulness of the proposed technique.
Heparin-neutralizing activity in the plasma of women with gynecologic malignancy: the effect of tumor stage on heparin concentration and fibrin generation after low-dose heparin.	The relationship between tumor stage and the concentration of circulating heparin achieved after subcutaneous administration and its effect on fibrin generation were studied in 24 women with gynecologic malignancy. A single subcutaneous injection of 5000, 7500, and 10,000/U of sodium heparin was given in random order on different days. Plasma specimens for antithrombin III, fibrinopeptide A, and heparin were obtained serially over an 11-hour interval. Women with a Stage III or IV malignancy had significantly lower circulating heparin after the 5000 and 10,000/U doses. There was a significant decline in fibrinopeptide A as the concentration of circulating heparin increased. Thirty-three percent of women with a Stage III or IV malignancy had no detectable circulating heparin at any point examined over the 11 hours after 5000/U of heparin. Likewise, 16.7% and 8.4% had no detectable circulating heparin after 7500 and 10,000/U, respectively. A similar percentage was noted in a smaller group of women with Stage II malignancy. Next, a known quantity of heparin was added to the plasma from these patients and the concentration of heparin was determined. A significant amount of heparin-neutralizing activity was documented. We conclude that a large percentage of women with an advanced gynecologic malignancy are able to neutralize heparin administered for the prevention of thromboembolic disease. This heparin-neutralizing activity may account for the failure of low-dose heparin to prevent thromboembolic complications in this patient population.
Complications associated with warfarin prophylaxis in total knee arthroplasty.	Systemic and local complications associated with the use of warfarin for deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are significant. Forty-seven patients with primary TKAs considered at high risk for developing thromboembolic disease were treated with a regimen of preoperative and postoperative warfarin. The incidence (n = 2) of systemic complications was 4%. The incidence (n = 6) of wound complications requiring specific treatment or discontinuing physiotherapy was 12%. In this series, wound complications did not jeopardize the end results of TKA. However, such wound complications as may have delayed recovery occurred with a frequency similar to that reported in other series of TKA using different antithromboembolic modalities.
Atrial fibrillation and stroke: the view from neurology.	In summary NVAF is an important risk factor for stroke identifying a population at a six fold increased stroke risk. When stroke occurs it tends to be large and without a preceding TIA. These patients commonly have other cardiovascular disorders that must be considered as a potential cause of brain ischemia. The appropriate management of these patients to prevent cardioembolic stroke is unknown and must be individualized pending appropriate clinical trials. Following a cardioembolic stroke anticoagulation should be considered only in patients with small or moderate sized infarcts who have no evidence of hemorrhagic infarction on a CT scan and delayed until 36-48 hours post stroke onset.
The use of preserved photomodified autoblood for the prevention of thromboembolic complications in surgical interventions on the small pelvis]	The method of UV irradiation of autoblood followed by infusion in the early postoperative period was used in 109 patients subjected to various operative interventions on the small pelvis organs. It was established that the infusion of autologous photomodified blood allowed to avoid postoperative thromboembolic complications.
Suppression of hemostatic system activation by oral anticoagulants in the blood of patients with thrombotic diatheses.	RIAs for hemostatic system activation were employed to study patients who were anticoagulated with warfarin. The mean prothrombin fragment F1 + 2 concentration in stably anticoagulated individuals without an inherited thrombotic diathesis (mean prothrombin time [PT] ratio [PT of patient/PT of normal plasma pool] = 1.74) was 0.231 nM as compared with a mean plasma F1 + 2 level of 1.68 nM for a nonanticoagulated control group (P less than 0.0001). The initiation of oral anticoagulants in two subjects who did not exhibit protein C deficiency led to a paradoxical increase in F1 + 2 levels during the first day of therapy. We have also shown that a relatively low intensity regimen of warfarin (PT ratio less than 1.2) may reduce elevated concentrations of F1 + 2 into the normal range in patients with a history of recurrent thromboembolism. The mean F1 + 2 level in antithrombin-deficient individuals on warfarin was significantly elevated (mean = 0.714 nM) as compared with that in anticoagulated subjects with protein C deficiency (mean = 0.205 nM) or in those without an inherited thrombotic disorder (P less than 0.01) at equivalent levels of intensity of oral anticoagulation. We therefore conclude that the effect of warfarin on hemostatic system activation is modulated by the endogenous heparan sulfate-antithrombin mechanism.
Activity, air boots, and aspirin as thromboembolism prophylaxis in knee arthroplasty. A multiple regimen approach.	In this prospective study 90 patients underwent 100 total knee replacements. Each patient walked and practiced rehabilitation exercises one day preoperatively and the morning of surgery. The contralateral calf was intermittently pumped during surgery followed by bilateral pulsatile calf compression postoperatively. Aspirin was administered in the recovery room and continued 600 mg twice a day until discharge. Early activity and ambulation postoperatively were expected. Routine deep venous thrombosis screening tests were not performed. No physiologically significant postoperative venous thrombosis on any of these patients were observed. A Doppler test was performed on eight patients, venogram on two patients, and V/Q lung scan on two patients in whom a thromboembolic disease problem was clinically suspected. All of these tests were negative except for one V/Q scan.
Prevention of the risk of infection and thromboembolism following cesarean section. 2. Results of a multicenter study]	The amount of infection following caesarean operations changes according to the indication for the caesarean and the length of time the membranes have been ruptured. Antibiotics should be prescribed according to these parameters. It does not seem that the numbers of thrombo-embolic complications in this series were reduced by using heparin prophylactically in the usual doses. It does seem to us that women with real factors for this risk should receive heparin in high doses to lower blood coagulation.
Comparison between sequelae of surgical and medical treatment of venous thromboembolism.	Thirty-six patients have been studied clinically and phlebographically three years after a major deep vein thrombosis. Twenty were treated surgically and 16 medically. The incidence of post-thrombotic symptoms was similar in the two groups. The use of superficial femoral vein ligation to prevent embolism will not worsen the prognosis of a leg which is already the site of deep vein thrombosis.
Thrombocyte aggregation after abdominal hysterectomy with combined prevention of thromboembolism using 6% macrodex and sintrom]	Thrombocyte aggregation was investigated, according to Born, in 14 patients who underwent abdominal hysterectomy due to benign illness. The patients received dextran 60 and 4-hydroxycoumarin as prophylactic therapy for early and late thromboembolism. The following results were obtained: 1. The ability of the thrombocytes to aggregate was reduced by half, 2 hours postoperatively, after administration of dextran 60, and remained at this level during the first postoperative day. This action was independent of the concentration and type of agent used in the aggregation test. The original values were attained again on the 4th postoperative day. The speed and force of desaggregation showed reverse behaviour. 2. Results bore no relationships to the age of the patient. 3. This combined prophylactic therapy with macrodex (500 ml intraoperatively) and sintrom (from the 1st postoperative day) seems to give adequate protection in both the intra- and postoperative risk phases.
Prevention of postoperative thromboembolism by dextran 70 or low-dose heparin.	The efficacy of intravenous infusion of dextran 70 or subcutaneous administration of low-dose heparin in preventing postoperative thromboembolic complications has been investigated in a prospective randomized trial. During part 1 of the study, 232 patients over the age of 40 years who were undergoing major gynecologic surgery underwent a complete test protocol. The 125I fibrinogen uptake test (FUT) was used for the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in 117 patients in the dextran and 115 patients in the heparin group. Heparin was significantly more effective than dextran for reducing DVT (P less than .001). During part 2 of the study no FUT was done but the incidence of clinical and fatal pulmonary embolism (PE) and the number of complications were studied. Of 444 patients (parts 1 and 2) 1 fatal and 2 nonfatal pulmonary emboli were diagnosed. All the emboli occurred in the dextran group. The benefit: hazard ratio appeared to favor heparin for the prophylaxis of DVT.
1st direct comparison of allergic side effects of dextran with and without hapten]	In a Swiss multicentre study for evaluation of heparindihydroergotamine in the prevention of postoperative thromboembolic complications, 3887 patients received dextran 70 for comparison. During this trial monovalent hapten-dextran was introduced in two of the participating centres for clinical evaluation. 701 patients in the trial therefore received either 10 or 20 ml hapten before the first dextran infusion was started. Thus, direct evaluation of the incidence of dextran-induced anaphylactoid reactions in two groups of patients, on receiving hapten prevention and the other not, was possible for the first time. 32 dextran-induced anaphylactoid reactions occurred in the 3186 patients not receiving hapten. The incidence of these reactions is therefore 1%. Four of the reactions were severe and 1 was fatal. In the group of patients receiving hapten there was no reaction either to the dextran infusion or to the hapten injection. According to the zero hypothesis, 7 dextran-induced anaphylactoid reactions were expected.
Preliminary experience with aspirin for anticoagulation in children with prosthetic cardiac valves.	Twenty-four children (ages 1 to 18 years, mean 12.2 years) underwent 27 operations for aortic, mitral, or combined aortic and mitral valve replacement. There was 1 operative death. Of the 23 operative survivors (12 aortic, 8 mitral, 3 combined valve replacement), only 5 were given warfarin for long-term anticoagulation. The remaining 18 (10 aortic, 8 mitral valve replacement) were given aspirin (plus dipyridamole in 5). Twelve of the 18 had at least one mechanical valve (11 Bjrk-Shiley and Beall valves; 1 Bjrk-Shiley valve was replaced with a Beall disc valve as the child grew). These 18 patients were followed for 1 to 59 months (mean, 20.4 months). There was no thrombotic, embolic, or bleeding complications. There were 2 late deaths (one cardiac). Review of the available literature indicates that in children with prosthetic cardiac valves, aspirin (with or without dipyridamole) provides adequate protection against thromboemboli and avoids the hemorrhagic complications associated with warfarin.
Prevention of the thromboembolic risk during the operative period in a patient with a congenital antithrombin III deficiency]	The case of a woman with congenital antithrombin III (AT III) deficiency undergoing elective hysterectomy is reported. AT III deficient patients have high risks of thromboembolic disease, especially developing during and after surgery. It is usual practice to discontinue oral anticoagulants with antivitamin K activity and to obtain effective AT III activity by the transfusion of freeze-dried concentrates of AT III and/or fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Heparin is prescribed as soon as AT III activity reaches 70%. The oral anticoagulant regimen is reinstituted in the late postoperative period. In our case, transfusion of FFP, in the pre- and postoperative periods, results in an AT III activity of 63%. Heparin was not used because oral anticoagulants were readministered early, 12 h after operation. No clinical thrombo-embolic complication was observed.
Plasma and urinary antithrombin III in the nephrotic syndrome in adults]	The occurrence of thromboembolism in nephrotic syndrome has been recently correlated with acquired antithrombin III (AT III) deficiency (and this raised the question of the prevention and treatment of thromboembolism with heparin). We studied AT III levels in plasma and urine in 39 adults with nephrotic syndrome. Three patients have had thromboembolic manifestations (before treatment with heparin). Their albuminemia was less than 18 g/l, their plasmatic AT III levels were normal and one had an elevated urine AT III level. Plasmatic AT III levels and albuminemia were positively correlated (r = 0.34; p less than 0.05) but AT III levels remained in the normal range being moderately diminished in only 3 patients never less than 70 p. 100. There was no correlation between plasmatic AT III level and proteinuria or urinary AT III levels. We conclude that the risk of thromboembolism in adults with nephrotic syndrome is not correlated with plasmatic AT III levels. This suggests that heparin therapy would be effective in preventing thromboembolism in this disorder. Indeed, no such episodes were seen in our patients under heparin.
Aspirin and systemic heparinization in diagnostic and interventional neuroradiology.	To decrease the risk of iatrogenic thromboembolic complications during interventional procedures with coaxial catheter systems, aspirin and systemic heparinization were used in 57 consecutive cases. No thromboembolic complications occurred. This group was compared with a second group of 25 patients who also had interventional procedures with coaxial systems but who had only a continuous heparinized drip infusion flushing the inside of the coaxial system. Two patients had an embolic complication and two others had thrombus formation inside or outside the catheters without neurologic symptoms. The use of systemic heparinization has been extended to all prolonged angiographic procedures except in cases of acute or recent subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Leg scanning with radioisotope-labeled fibrinogen in patients undergoing hip surgery. Comparison with contrast phlebography and lung scans.	To establish whether radioisotope-labeled fibrinogen leg scanning is of value in the context of hip surgery, we prospectively studied 21 consecutive patients undergoing either total hip replacement (14) or open repair of a hip fracture (seven) with leg scans, contrast phlebography, and ventilation and perfusion lung scans. We found that in eight patients (38%), venous thromboembolism developed postoperatively. Agreement between phlebographic and leg scanning results was excellent. In no patient was venous thrombosis limited to the thigh on the operated-on side, a vital consideration in application of fibrinogen leg scanning to this patient population. Two patients had lung scan changes indicative of embolism; both had thrombi extending into thigh veins. Leg scanning with radioisotope-labeled fibrinogen appears to be a useful method for monitoring patients undergoing hip surgery, if the upper three counting points on the operated-on side are excluded.
Lymphocele after pelvic lymphadenectomy for urologic cancer.	Pelvic lymphadenectomy is used widely for staging prostatic or bladder carcinoma. In 9 of 187 patients (4.7 per cent) who underwent bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy for urologic cancer pelvic lymphocele diveloped. The management of these patients is presented along with review of causes, clinical features, diagnosis, and treatment. Pelvic CT scan is a noninvasive modality which aids in the diagnosis of this complication. Minidose heparin used for prophylaxis of thromboembolic complications may increase lymphocele formation.
Current UK opinion on thromboprophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery: its use in routine total hip and knee arthroplasty.	We surveyed all surgically qualified members of the British Orthopaedic Association as to their views on thromboprophylaxis in routine total hip and knee replacement. The response rate was 92%. In total hip replacement, 13-15% of surgeons used no method of prophylaxis at all, 18-22% did not use a mechanical method of prophylaxis, while 26% did not use a pharamacological agent; 36% believed low-dose anticoagulant thromboprophylaxis to be a medicolegal necessity while 47% disagreed with this. In total knee replacement, 18-33% of surgeons used no method of prophylaxis at all, 20-26% did not use a mechanical method of prophylaxis, while 54-58% did not use a pharmacological agent; 12 believed low-dose anticoagulant thromboprophylaxis to be a medicolegal necessity, while 64% disagreed with this. We conclude that mechanical methods remain a popular method of thromboprophylaxis and pharmacological methods, while commonly used, are not seen as a medicolegal requirement in lower limb arthroplasty and are used less often in total knee replacement.
Prevention of postsurgical thromboembolism with small doses of heparin]	The study includes 390 patients of different age, operated for various conditions during the last quarter of 1975, and systematically treated post operatively with heparin (the cases in which heparin was contraindicated were not included). None of the patients developed signs of thromboembolism after the operation. The drawbacks of the method are virtually inexistent as compared to the gravity of postoperative thrombolic complications. A further study included 1708 operated patients of whom 223 (13.0%) received the heparin treatment and 1485 (87.0%) did not. There was no thrombolic-embolic complication in the former lot and 12 cases (0.8%) in the latter. Three of 15 patients (20%) in whom the postoperative heparin treatment was interrupted immediately or very soon, developed thromboembolism. The method is efficient provided it is applied after the operation up to complete mobilization of the patient. The method is readily applicable, there is no risk and haemostasis is insured.
Use of non-medicamentous methods of treatment with the aim to improve the immune status of patients with suppurative diseases and malignant neoformations of the lungs]	A test group of 40 patients and a control group of 20 matched controls with pulmonary cancer and suppuration were exposed to preoperative and postoperative electromyostimulation (EMS) with adjuvant intravascular laser radiation of the blood (ILRB) to prevent thromboembolism versus conventional chemotherapy, respectively. At the preoperative examination all the patients exhibited secondary immunodeficiency. It was found that introduction of EMS and ILRB corrects immunity and activates fibrinolysis. A positive trend in coagulation is also attributed to immunomodulating effects of EMS and ILRB.
Prevention of thromboembolic disease using mini doses of heparin in surgery patients]	In our study, the effect of the prophylaxis with the low doses of heparin on the occurrence of the deep venous thrombosis or the thromboembolic disease (TED) in the selected groups of the patients was investigated. From our work arises that the patients suffering from malignant diseases are actually at the high risk according to the shortened values of APTT in the preoperative period, which shows evidence of hypercoagulability and further according to the major occurrence of the deep venous thrombosis and the thromboembolic disease during the insufficient prevention by heparin (II. gr. 12%). Low doses of heparin evidently affected the values of APTT and elevated them to the more desirable levels in most of the patients. During the therapy by heparin is necessary to control regularly the values of APTT and to correct the dosage conditionally. Failure and complications of the therapy by heparin is mostly due to incorrectly dosed heparin or its delayed administration or further its improper and inadequate application in the group of the patients being contraindicated (mainly the patients suffering from the bleeding disorders or hepatic damage). The dosage of heparin must be consistent, then the therapy is safe and effective. At any postoperative complication it is necessary to applicate heparin again in the case of its previous abortion. It is also necessary to monitor the mobility of the patients after the operation, which is individual and according to correct the length of the administration of heparin. The period of the administration of heparin is individual, not overall. It is needless to afraid of the application of heparin in the surgical patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lack of anti-factor Xa activity in umbilical cord vein samples after subcutaneous administration of heparin or low molecular mass heparin in pregnant women.	Prophylaxis of thromboembolism with low molecular mass (LMM) heparin may offer several advantages over conventional heparin during pregnancy. Heparin-related side effects as osteoporosis, local allergy, thrombocytopenia and increase in liver enzymes may occur less frequently with LMM heparin. However, LMM heparins of different origins have to be considered as individual pharmaceutical compounds. This is of special clinical importance regarding a possible placental passage. We performed a randomized controlled study comparing the anti-factor Xa activities in plasma samples of 60 pregnant women undergoing delivery at term and in the umbilical cord vein of the newborn after subcutaneous administration of 5,000 IU unfractionated (UF) heparin or 1,500 activated partial thromboplastin time units LMM heparin or placebo. Injections were performed about 2 h prior to the delivery. Maternal and fetal blood samples were taken at the same time to assay heparin activity by the heptest coagulation assay and the S2222 chromogenic substrate method. LMM heparin was detected in all maternal plasma samples whereas UF heparin was measurable only in about one third of them. UF heparin as well as LMM heparin were not detectable in samples taken from the umbilical cord vein. The data demonstrate that neither UF nor the LMM heparin used in this study cross the placenta in relevant inhibitory activity towards factor Xa. This finding is in accordance with the previous experiences regarding the safe administration of other LMM heparins for prophylaxis of thromboembolism during pregnancy.
New protocols for perioperative management of podiatric patients taking oral anticoagulants.	This article introduces new protocols for surgical intervention on patients who are taking oral anticoagulants. The authors review various drug interactions that can suppress the action of oral anticoagulants. Complications of oral anticoagulation therapy are presented, including "purple toe syndrome."
Prophylactic oral anticoagulation in nephrotic patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy.	Whether the high incidence of thromboembolic events in nephrotic patients with membranous nephropathy justifies prophylactic administration of oral anticoagulants remains controversial. We used a Markov-based decision analysis model, explicitly considering the consequences of recurrent embolic and bleeding events to quantify the risk-benefit trade-offs of: (1) prophylactic therapy, in which oral anticoagulation was started at the time of diagnosis of nephrotic syndrome (before any thromboembolic event); and (2) anticoagulant therapy, in which treatment was started after the first clinical thromboembolic event. We assumed that anticoagulant therapy was discontinued if there was remission of the nephrotic syndrome. The overall number of fatal emboli prevented by prophylactic anticoagulants exceeded the one of fatal bleeding events for all clinically meaningful ranges of the following parameters: nephrotic syndrome duration, incidence of thromboembolic events, likelihood of embolization, and mortality rates of embolic and bleeding events. For a hypothetical 50-year-old patient who remained nephrotic for 2 years, prophylactic anticoagulation yielded a gain representing 2.5 months of quality-adjusted life expectancy. We conclude that for nephrotic patients with membranous nephropathy, the benefits of prophylactic administration or oral anticoagulants outweigh the risks.
Low-molecular-weight heparin.	Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) are mixtures of heparin molecules in the range of 3000 to 10,000 daltons. As LMWHs of various manufacturers are all produced differently, they are not comparable to each other and are therefore considered to be individual products with different pharmacologic and clinical properties. All these agents have some common characteristics, however, such as a higher availability after subcutaneous administration and a longer biologic half-life. Numerous clinical trials have demonstrated that LMWHs are highly effective and safe for postsurgical prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT); therefore, the LMWHs that are commercially available so far, are mainly approved in this indication. LMWHs are also effective in the prophylaxis of DVT in medical indications, as well as for the treatment of established DVT.
Hypercoagulable state induced by thrombocytapheresis.	The influence of the continuous-flow automated blood cell separator. Fenwal CS-3000, on blood coagulation and the fibrinolytic system in blood donors was studied. Blood samples were taken from the collection line of donors undergoing extracorporeal circulation, before and after platelet pheresis. Of the molecular markers, prothrombin fragment-F1 + 2 (PF1 + 2) markedly increased from 0.8 +/- 0.3 to 2.9 +/- 2.0 nM/ml (P < .004), thrombin antithrombin III complex (TAT) also markedly increased from 2.6 +/- 1.3 to 56.0 +/- 24.0 micrograms/L (P < .001), fibrinopeptide A (FPA) increased slightly from 0.8 +/- 0.9 to 3.8 +/- 4.2 micrograms/L (P < .05), and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor (alpha 2-PI) decreased slightly from 95 +/- 8 to 91 +/- 9% (P < .05). In one donor with the highest level of PF1 + 2, TAT, FPA, and plasmin inhibitor complex after platelet pheresis, protein C, protein S, C4b-binding protein, ATIII, plasminogen, alpha 2-PI, and coagulation factors were decreased. In blood donors undergoing platelet pheresis using the continuous-flow automated blood cell separator, Fenwal CS-3000, a hypercoagulable state was observed. Changing the materials of the plastic disposables to a more thromboresistant material may prevent the hypercoagulable state in donors induced by platelet pheresis using the blood cell separator.
Prosthetic knee arthroplasty: current status and future perspectives]	Prosthetic replacement of the knee-joint has become an accepted method of treatment for osteo-arthritis and various inflammatory, metabolic or hematologic conditions of the knee-joint. It usually makes use of semi-constrained resurfacing prostheses which belong to several types differing by their degree of constraint and their intrinsic stability which are related to implant geometry and implantation technique. Ancillary instruments have been developed which make it possible, provided the rationale of the operation is well understood, to reproducibly attain the goals of the operation, i.e. limb realignment, ligament balance in flexion and extension, adjustment of joint-line level and correct patellar tracking. Improvement in the clinical outcome of the operation has also resulted from better rehabilitation and postoperative treatment, particularly to prevent local and systemic complications.
Surgery on patients receiving anticoagulants.	Patients on anticoagulants may undergo surgery if the anticoagulants are carefully controlled and if contraindications are respected. Patients being treated for thromboembolism should have their clotting times maintained at close to two times normal levels if they are on heparin, or their prothrombin times similarly maintained if they are an oral anticoagulants.
Low-molecular-weight heparin versus warfarin for prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism: a randomized trial.	A group of 105 consecutive patients with venographically proved major acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT) were randomized in an open prospective study to evaluate the comparative efficacy and safety of a fixed dose of subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and warfarin for the prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism. Four patients developed venographically proved recurrent DVT during the 3 months of treatment: three in the LMWH group and one in the warfarin group. Nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in two patients in the LMWH group and in one in the warfarin group. Five of the 55 patients (10%) in the warfarin group and none of the 50 patients in the LMWH developed bleeding complications (two-tailed Fisher exact test, p = 0.06). A preliminary assessment of the costs indicated that treatment with LMWH was less expensive by Pounds 900 per patient than warfarin. In conclusion, the fixed daily dose of LMWH and the adjusted dose of warfarin therapy were of similar efficacy in preventing recurrence of DVT. However, warfarin therapy, despite strict laboratory control, is associated with more frequent side effects and is expensive. Another study with a higher dose of LMWH is recommended.
Wide variability in the sensitivity of APTT reagents for monitoring of heparin dosage.	To assess the sensitivity of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) reagents for monitoring heparin dosage using data from the UK National External Quality Assessment Scheme (NEQAS) for blood coagulation.
Markers of hemostatic system activation during thromboprophylaxis with recombinant hirudin in total hip replacement.	Coagulation activation markers were studied in 148 patients undergoing total hip replacement under recombinant-hirudin (Desirudin, Revasc) prophylaxis with the aim of investigating the efficacy and safety of this anticoagulant compared with heparin in terms of biological effects on coagulation variables and bleeding. Hirudin (10, 15 or 20 mg s.c. b.i.d.) or unfractionated heparin (5000 IU s.c. t.i.d.) was administered immediately before surgery and continued for 8-12 days. Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin activation fragment F1 + 2 (F1 + 2), thrombin-antithrombin III complexes (TAT) and D-dimer were measured at baseline and on postoperative days 1,3 and 6, immediately before the morning injection. In comparison with baseline values, heparin had little effect on aPTT whereas the three hirudin doses prolonged aPTT significantly with no differences among the three doses. Moreover, there were no group differences in perioperative or cumulative blood loss or transfusion requirements. F1 + 2 fragment, TAT and D-dimer plasma levels were higher than at baseline during the entire postoperative period, with different trends (F1 + 2 increasing, TAT decreasing, D-dimer increasing, decreasing and then increasing again), but without significant differences among the four treatment groups. Our findings suggest that specific inhibition of thrombin seems a safe and efficacious mode of blocking thrombin activity after hip surgery although it does not prevent thrombin generation.
Prevention of venous thromboembolic risk in non-surgical patients.	The risk of deep-vein thrombosis in hospitalized medical patients varies considerably among diseases and should be systematically assessed as a function of the presence of different risk factors. The need for drug prophylaxis of thromboembolic risk in patients at moderate or high risk of thrombosis is now recommended. In such cases, only standard or low-molecular-weight heparins have been evaluated in controlled trials. The efficacy of heparin prophylaxis has been demonstrated in hospitalized cardiac patients following myocardial infarction, in neurological patients with paralysis of one or both lower limbs, and in intensive-care patients or in those with a serious medical condition, particularly if they have a history of deep-vein thrombosis. The choice between the different heparins, their dosages and treatment durations, and the possible indication for prophylaxis in patients at low thrombotic risk should be evaluated in controlled trials.
Orthopedic treatment of hip fracture.	There are those who advocate nonoperative treatment of impacted femoral neck fractures, but in general there is consensus that surgery is the treatment of choice for both trochanteric hip fracture and femoral neck fracture. As for trochanteric fractures, modern results after internal fixation are characterized by only a low percentage of secondary operations, even for unstable fractures and when full weight bearing is permitted immediately after operation. The high rates of complication after internal fixation of femoral neck fractures and the insignificant improvement of these results over the decades have made prosthetic replacement an alternative method of treatment, at least for dislocated femoral neck fractures. Until a quantifiable prognostic method to judge whether a given femoral neck fracture will heal is available, and until sufficiently large, prospective techniques have been undertaken, diverging opinions about the operative treatment of choice will persist.
Oral anticoagulation in paediatric patients: dose requirements and complications.	The lack of oral anticoagulant guidelines specific to paediatric practice has led to the adoption of adult regimens, often without scientific evidence of efficacy or safety. A two year prospective study of anticoagulant control was carried out in 45 children aged 9 months to 18 years, the majority of whom were receiving primary prophylactic anticoagulation. The main indication was congenital heart disease, either with (n = 8) or without (n = 34) mechanical valve prosthesis. During a follow up period of 602 patient months the average interval between visits was three weeks. Target international normalised ratios (INRs) were achieved on 62% and 39% of visits for children with low target INR (2.0-3.0) and high target INR (3.0-4.0) respectively. However warfarin dose was altered on only 22% of visits. Warfarin doses required to achieve a stable INR of 2.0-3.0 in 33 children were strongly correlated with weight [dose (mg/d) = 0.07 x weight (kg) + 0.54] but independently influenced by age. No thrombotic complications were recorded, and haemorrhagic events were infrequent (2.1% of visits) and, with one exception, minor. Safe outpatient oral anticoagulation is feasible in children, whose warfarin requirements appear moderately predictable and whose control is no more erratic than that of adults.
Isolated prolapse of the posterior leaflet of the mitral valve. Results of reconstructive surgery]	Out of 522 patients undergoing mitral valve reconstruction for mitral regurgitation between 1988 and June 1994, the authors studied 159 cases of isolated mitral regurgitation by prolapse of the posterior mitral leaflet. There were 98 men (62%) and 61 women (38%), with an average age of 58.4 +/- 10.4 years. The functional class and ejection fraction were 2.8 +/- 0.11 and 0.66 +/- 0.2 respectively. In 155 patients, surgery consisted in quadrangular resection of the prolapsed tissue, followed in 83 cases by sliding posterior valvuloplasty and in 72 cases by plicature of the annulus. In 4 cases, the prolapse was treated by implantation of artificial chordae tendinae. A Carpentier-Edwards ring was inserted in all cases. There were no hospital deaths. Echocardiography was performed before discharge from hospital and showed satisfactory mitral valve function in 98% of cases: slight systolic anterior motion (SAM) was observed in one case. All patients were followed up for an average of 3.67 +/- 0.10 years. At six years, survival was 93 +/- 7%; moreover, 93 +/- 7% and 97 +/- 3% of patients had no thromboembolic or haemorrhagic complications. Six patients were reoperated, three of them in the first year of follow-up. At six years, 95 +/- 5% of patients were free of reoperation and 81 +/- 11% were free of all complications. The authors conclude that the excellent medium term survival and the low rate of complications are evidence in favour of conservative surgery for treatment of mitral regurgitation due to prolapse of the posterior mitral leaflet.
Inter-institute variations in International Normalized Ratio and thrombotest]	Oral anticoagulant therapy is effective for reducing the risk of thromboembolic events in patients with atrial fibrillation or other heart diseases. However, the intensity of oral anticoagulation therapy required in high risk patients, especially in Japanese patients, to achieve the best balance between the prevention of thromboembolic events and bleeding complications remains unclear. The multicenter study of Toyama Warfarin Rational Dosage (TOWARD) was started in 1996 to determine the optimal level of anticoagulant therapy. This study investigated the relationship between values of thrombotest (TT) and International Normalized Ratio (INR) measured from the same samples to clarify inter-institute variations. The relationship between TT and INR was not linear but hyperbolic. Changes of INR to TT are relatively small in the TT range of more than 20% as compared with the range of 20% or less. There were considerable inter-institute variations of TT, and the coefficient of variation (CV) was 0.16 and 0.24 in the low level and high level anticoagulation samples, respectively. However, the variations became significantly small when the same reference was used. The CV of INR was 0.12 and 0.08 in the high level and low level anticoagulation samples, respectively, and very similar with the control samples without anticoagulation (0.11). The variation was small when INR was obtained from the international sensitivity index (ISI) of thromboplastin less than 1.5. TT is widely used for monitoring oral anticoagulant therapy in Japan, and is an excellent system with little inter-institute variation when a standard reference is offered. Since INR has been established as an international monitoring system, the use of INR measured with thromboplastin of small ISI is recommended for monitoring.
Prevention of thromboembolism with ticlopidine shortly after valve repair or replacement with a bioprosthesis.	This study investigated the efficacy of postoperative ticlopidine as antiplatelet therapy in patients shortly after heart valve repair or replacement.
