Prophylactic and therapeutic recombinant factor VIIa administration to patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia: results of an international survey.	Antibodies to glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa and/or HLA may render platelet transfusions ineffective to stop bleeding or to cover surgery in patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia (GT). Anecdotal reports suggest recombinant factor (rF)VIIa might be a therapeutic alternative in these situations.
Life threatening menorrhagia in thrombasthenia. (Glanzmann-Naegeli) thrombasthenia]	Glanzmann's Thrombasthenia is a rare inherited disorder of platelet aggregation with normal platelet count and humoral coagulation. It is caused by the deficiency or functional disorder of platelet membrane glycoproteins IIb und IIIa. This complex is considered to be a receptor for fibrinogen. Menorrhagia often occurs as a clinical manifestation of affected females. We report a case of severe menorrhagia in a 13-year-old girl during her third menstrual cycle. She needed several red blood cell transfusions. The bleeding could only be stopped by administration of Lynestrenol.
Glanzmann thrombasthenia with acute myeloid leukemia successfully treated by bone marrow transplantation.	We report successful treatment by bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patient with Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT). Genetic analysis revealed that a novel point mutation in exon 3 of the GPIIb gene led to abnormal splicing resulting in an amino acid substitution and an in-frame deletion of 3 amino acid residues. Expression studies suggested a rapid degradation of the uncomplexed protein within the cells. Induction therapy for AML was performed with frequent platelet transfusions because of the patient's severe hemorrhagic manifestations. In the second remission, the patient was successfully treated by BMT from an HLA-matched unrelated donor. Platelet function returned to normal, and the GT phenotype completely disappeared. Our experience suggests that BMT is a curative therapeutic strategy for GT. Furthermore, we believe this study is the first to demonstrate that engraftment after BMT for AML can be determined by monitoring the congenital genetic defect of GT.
Concomitant occurrence of mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB and Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. Further evidence of a hyperactive alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase-producing allele.	A daughter of first cousins had two extremely rare, recessive disorders: thrombasthenia (Glanzmann's disease, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa deficiency) and mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB, (Sanfilippo B syndrome, alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAG) deficiency). Normal alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity was observed in two obligate heterozygotes (the proband's father and her maternal grandmother), suggesting that in addition to the normal and defective alleles, a third, hyperactive allele is also present in this family. Such a hyperactive allele seems to be quite prevalent in our area, and makes the biochemical identification of heterozygotes impossible if no extensive family surveys provide additional clues. There was no linkage between the two diseases, nor between any of them and several blood-groups and HLA-antigens tested for.
Glanzmann thrombasthenia with endomyocardial fibrosis: a thrombotic paradox.	We report a paradoxical occurrence of left ventricular thrombus due to endomyocardial fibrosis in a six years male child diagnosed as Glanzmann thrombasthenia. Such an association has not been reported in literature.
Perioperative management of a heterozygous carrier of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia submitted to coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass.	Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is a congenital hemorrhagic disorder transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and characterized by altered production and/or assembly of the platelet membrane glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor. We describe the perioperative management of a heterozygous carrier of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia submitted to cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass and the case was complicated by early excessive postoperative bleeding.
Control of severe bleeding episode in case of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia refractory to platelet transfusion therapy by administering recombinant factor VIIa.	Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is an autosomal recessive inherited platelet function defect. Though, quantitatively normal, the aggregation ability of platelets is reduced leading to bleeding episodes requiring transfusion of platelet concentrates. We describe a case of 13-year-old girl who had recurrent episodes of epistaxis since birth and was managed with multiple platelet concentrate transfusions and recently admitted with severe epistaxis refractory to platelet transfusion. At this stage administration of recombinant activated factor VII (fVIIa) was considered, which was initially given at 90 microg/kg dose with little control of bleeding but subsequent second dose of 120 microg/kg was administered with excellent response and immediate control of bleeding.
Multiple dental extractions in a child with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia: report of case.	Patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia have a tendency to hemorrhage. This report shows evidence, however, that extractions in children with the disease can be accomplished without supplemental therapy.
Hemorrhage of upper digestive and respiratory tracts in children. A clinical, biological and therapeutic approach]	Haemorrhages in the upper aero-digestive tract, whether spontaneous or provoked by surgery, lead to the discovery of abnormal coagulation. A retrospective series of 43 children hospitalized for haemorrhage of the upper aero-digestive tract enabled us to evaluate the most frequent causes. Willebrand's disease, haemophilia and Glanzmann's thromboasthenia, primary haemostasis disease, made up 27.9% of the cases; acquired impaired haemostasis by thrombopathies secondary to aspirin intake accounted for 25.6%; finally the haemostasis tests were normal in 46.5% of the children. Based on clinical features and biological data, we proposed an adapted diagnostic approach and discussed therapy in light of the current literature. This study confirmed the importance of an adapted routine battery of laboratory tests and the persistent search for impaired haemostasis in children hospitalized for haemorrhage of the upper aero-digestive tract.
Association of xeroderma pigmentosum with thrombasthenia.	Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe sun-sensitivity, early skin cancers and abnormal DNA repair. XP has a worldwide distribution with an approximate frequency of 1/250,000. It is classified into nine complementation groups, and distribution of patients among the various groups is related to ethnic origin. To our knowledge, the association of XP with thrombasthenia has not been reported previously; here a 12-year-old girl with this combination is reported. She was first noted to have skin erythema on exposure to sunlight at the age of six months and was diagnosed with XP. At the age of one she had the complaints of easy bruising and epistaxis. A diagnosis of thrombasthenia was made based on the absence of platelet aggregation response to ADP, collagen and adrenaline and reduced clot retraction. In clinical management, oral isotretinoin was given in order to suppress tumor formation.
