Selective venous thrombolysis with the nipple-balloon catheter: comparative evaluation in vivo.	To compare in an animal model of deep vein thrombosis, an intramural drug delivery catheter, the nipple-balloon catheter, with an occlusion balloon-infusion guide wire system.
Can a commercial diagnostic ultrasound device accelerate thrombolysis? An in vitro skull model.	Recently, 3 clinical trials revealed encouraging results in recanalization and clinical outcome in acute stroke patients when 2-MHz transcranial Doppler monitoring was applied. This study investigated whether a 1.8-MHz commercial diagnostic ultrasound device has the potential to facilitate thrombolysis using an in vitro stroke model.
Endoluminal recanalization in a patient with phlegmasia cerulea dolens using a multimodality approach-a case report.	Phlegmasia cerulea dolens is a limb-threatening form of deep venous thrombosis and should be treated aggressively. The authors report a patient who presented with iliocaval and femoral deep venous thrombosis and posed an additional therapeutic challenge based on a recent history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis and balloon venoplasty were applied in treatment. The direct thrombin inhibitor argatroban was used in place of heparin for concurrent anticoagulation. This multimodality endovascular approach (chemical and mechanical interventions) was successful in relieving the venous occlusion and salvaging the limb, while maintaining appropriate treatment for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
Ultrasound-enhanced Thrombolysis.	To report a single-center clinical experience with ultrasound-enhanced thrombolysis in the treatment of both arterial and venous thromboses.
Rheolytic catheter-assisted thrombectomy in a gigantic floating thrombus]	Thrombosis of deep veins of the lower extremities is a serious and frequently occurring disease (with the incidence rate of 160 newly onset cases per 100,000 people annually). A great number of complications are known to develop in case of the ileofemoral thrombosis and a floating pattern of the proximal portion of the thrombus, especially if extending to the vena cava inferior. Appropriate treatment of thromboses of the vena cava inferior should consist in averting dissemination of thrombosis in the proximal direction, preventing pulmonary-artery thromboembolism (PATE), and restoring the patency of the vena cava inferior in order to eliminate the risk of post-thrombotic disease. We present herein our first experience in rheolytic catheter-aided thrombectomy for a floating thrombus of the vena cava inferior in a female patient with an extremely elevated operative risk and pronounced concomitant somatic pathology.
Microbubbles improve sonothrombolysis in vitro and decrease hemorrhage in vivo in a rabbit stroke model.	Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is the thrombolytic standard of care for acute ischemic stroke, but intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) remains a common and devastating complication. We investigated using ultrasound (US) and microbubble (MB) techniques to reduce required tPA doses and to decrease ICH.
Stroke during pregnancy: therapeutic options and role of percutaneous device closure.	Percutaneous device closure of patent foramen ovale has developed into a therapeutic option for patients with presumed cryptogenic stroke. The appropriate use of these therapies relies on appropriate clinical assessment, as well as an understanding of the potential advantages of certain closure devices. Pregnancy is an uncommon scenario for stroke, but nonetheless represents a hypercoaguable state which may predispose to thromboembolism. We describe a case of stroke during pregnancy treated with percutaneous device closure; the role of, and alternatives to, device closure are discussed, as are specific issues related to device selection and the interventional procedure.
Mechanical thrombectomy for acute ischemic stroke]	The therapy of acute ischemic stroke aims at fast recanalization of the occluded brain vessel. In contrast to intravenous thrombolysis (IVT), endovascular approaches yield higher recanalization rates especially in large vessel occlusions. Mechanical thrombectomy with the Merci Retriever received FDA approval in 2004 as an adjunct to IVT or in the case of failed recanalization after IVT. The time window for treatment is 8 h from stroke onset. However, the recanalization rate was 55 %, still leaving space for further improvement. In addition to the Merci Retriever, the Penumbra System received FDA approval in 2008. The newest endovascular approach comprising retrievable intracranial stents results in an increased recanalization rate exceeding 90 % and has markedly reduced the time to recanalization. On the other hand, the complication rate has not increased yet. These promising results suggest a combined therapy for acute ischemic stroke. In a first step IVT can be started independently of the size of the treating hospital and in a next step the patient is transferred to a neuroradiological center. If vessel occlusion persists, additional endovascular recanalization is performed (bridging concept). Patients who don't qualify for IVT are candidates for mechanical thrombectomy up to 8 h after stroke onset.
Innovations in neuro-monitoring using transcranial ultrasound]	This review describes transcranial ultrasound-based neuromonitoring by assessing changes of brain structures or cerebral blood flow over time. Some of the presented ultrasound techniques are still experimental. They are advantageous as they provide non-invasive and bed-side imaging. Thus, time, costs and potentially hazardous side effects due to transportation of acutely ill patients to CT or MRI scanners can be avoided. An assessment of increased cerebral pressure can be achieved by repeated determination of individual pulsatility index, cerebral venous blood flow, midline shift and transorbital optic sheath measurements. Moreover, transcranial duplex sonography offers the possibility to detect intracranial haemorrhage and to guide neurosurgical interventions. Finally, the value of measuring cerebral autoregulation and the current state of the art regarding sonothrombolysis in acute intracranial arterial thrombosis is presented.
Use of a Trellis device for endovascular treatment of venous thrombosis involving a duplicated inferior vena cava.	Congenital anomalies of the inferior vena cava (IVC) are increasingly recognized with CT and venography techniques. Although many patients with IVC anomalies are asymptomatic, recent studies have suggested an association with venous thromboembolism. We report the case of a 62-year-old woman with extensive venous clot involving the infrarenal segment of a duplicated left IVC who underwent pharmacomechanical thrombectomy and tissue plasminogen activator catheter-directed thrombolysis with complete deep venous thrombosis resolution. To our knowledge this is the first reported case in the English literature of the use of a Trellis thrombectomy catheter in the setting of duplicated IVC.
Localized drug delivery in atherosclerotic arteries via a new balloon angioplasty catheter with intramural channels for simultaneous local drug delivery.	A dual-purpose angioplasty catheter with intramural channels and exterior pores for local drug delivery ("channeled balloon") was studied in eight atherosclerotic human necropsy arteries and in 22 rabbits with atherosclerotic peripheral arteries, in which markers (0.005 microns to 15 microns) were infused locally at 2 atmospheres during simultaneous angioplasty at 6 atmospheres. Thirteen of the rabbits were sacrificed at 4 or 24 h after procedure to determine the intramural retention over time. Histology confirmed effective angioplasty and revealed presence of markers in the arterial wall in 29 of 43 treated arteries (67%), whereas all control segments without local delivery had no marker staining. majority of the ineffective local delivery (12/14) occurred when 15 micron particles were infused (12/13 arteries without intramural markers), especially when examined 4 or 24 h later. Thus, in atherosclerotic arteries, the channeled balloon enabled simultaneous local drug delivery at low pressure during effective angioplasty, although particle size may play a role in successful intramural impregnation and retention.
In vitro evaluation of the relative thrombolytic efficiency of forced intrathrombic injections: saline versus urokinase.	To compare the rates of thrombolysis produced by forced intrathrombic injections of saline versus urokinase, as well as automated versus manual injections of urokinase, with use of an in vitro model of a vascular occlusion.
New thrombolytic brush catheter in thrombosed polytetrafluoroethylene dialysis grafts: preclinical animal study.	To assess the safety, efficacy, endothelial changes, and risks of pulmonary embolic events after the use of a new thrombolytic brush catheter in mature thrombosed polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) dialysis grafts in an animal model.
Low-frequency ultrasound penetrates the cranium and enhances thrombolysis in vitro.	Refinements of treatment methods are sought to rapidly reduce the volume of intracranial clots and to decrease patient exposure to possible complications of thrombolytic therapy for intracranial hematomas. We assessed the possibility of adding ultrasonication using model systems including human blood clots and temporal bone in vitro.
