Generation of a complete, soluble, and catalytically active sterol 14 alpha-demethylase-reductase complex.	Sterol 14 alpha-demethylation is one of the key steps of sterol biosynthesis in eukaryotes and is catalyzed by cytochrome P450 sterol 14 alpha-demethylase (other names being CYP51 and P45014DM) encoded by ERG11. This enzyme activity is supported by an associated NAPDH-dependent reductase encoded by NCPR1 (NCP1), which is also associated with the endoplasmic reticulum. A diglycine linker recognition site (Gly-Gly-Ile-Glu-Gly-Arg-Gly-Gly) for the protease factor Xa, also containing a thrombin recognition site, was inserted just beyond the N-terminal hydrophobic segment of Candida albicans Erg11p. This modified enzyme was heterologously expressed at a level of 2.5 nmol of Erg11p/mg of protein as an integral endoplasmic reticulum protein. Following purification, treatment of the modified protein with factor Xa or thrombin resulted in sequence-specific cleavage and production of a soluble N-terminal truncated Erg11p which exhibited spectral characteristics identical to those of the purified full-length, wild-type form. Furthermore, reconstitution of the soluble enzyme with soluble yeast Ncpr1p, expressed and purified as an N-terminal deletion of 33 amino acids encompassing its membrane anchor, resulted in a fully functional and soluble eukaryotic Erg11p system. The complex was disrupted by high-salt concentration, reflecting the importance of electrostatic forces in the protein-protein interaction. The results demonstrate the membrane anchor serves to localize Erg11p to the ER where the substrate is located, but is not essential in either Ncpr1p or Erg11p activity. The possibility of cocrystallization of an active soluble eukaryotic 14 alpha-demethylase can be envisaged.
cDNA cloning and high-level expression of a thrombin-like enzyme from Agkistrodon acutus venom.	Agkistrodon acutus (Guenther), a poisonous snake species of the family of Crotalidae, is mainly found south of the Yellow River in China. The main symptom of this poison is massive hemorrhage, in which thrombin-like enzymes (TLEs) in the venom play an important role. TLEs are abundant, especially in the venom of A. acutus. We isolated the total RNA from the venom gland tissue of A. acutus and amplified the cDNAs of the TLEs using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cDNAs were cloned into vector pThioHis B and were expressed as fusion proteins in the form of inclusion bodies, which accounted for nearly 50% of the total cell proteins. The inclusion bodies were washed, dissolved, refolded and purified by affinity chromatography. The purity was higher than 97%, as indicated by capillary zone electrophoresis. The renatured recombinant enzyme exhibited arginine esterase activity, as tested by the BAEE method, and also showed a fibrinogen cleavage effect, as detected by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). This method provides a fast and convenient system for studying the structure-function relationships in TLE isoenzymes, and also a practical way for mass production of TLEs in the pharmaceutical industry.
A recombinant murine meizothrombin precursor, prothrombin R157A/R268A, inhibits thrombosis in a model of acute carotid artery injury.	Mutations in human prothrombin that generate a stable form of meizothrombin or meizothrombin(desF1) cause dysprothrombinemia in both the homozygous and heterozygous state, suggesting that meizothrombin has dominant anticoagulant effects in vivo. The enzymatic characterization of recombinant mouse meizothrombin, meizothrombin(desF1), and thrombin indicates that all 3 enzymes have similar activity toward the chromogenic substrate S-2238, that meizothrombin and meizothrombin(desF1) have less than 10% of the fibrinogen-clotting activity of thrombin, and that meizothrombin is more active than thrombin or meizothrombin(desF1) for thrombomodulin-dependent protein C activation. Thus, activated mouse prothrombin R157A/R268A is similar to human meizothrombin in activity toward S-2238, fibrinogen, and protein C. The time to occlusion after FeCl(3)-induced carotid artery injury was delayed (11.8 +/- 3.6 minutes, n = 5) in Cf2(+/-) mice infused with prothrombin R157A/R268A compared with control mice infused with wild-type prothrombin (5.3 +/- 1.5 minutes, n = 3; P =.006). In this model, prothrombin R157A/R268A has anticoagulant activity that reflects its decreased fibrinogen-clotting activity and preserved protein C-activating activity and is consistent with dominant inhibition of fibrinogen clotting.
The microglia-activating potential of thrombin: the protease is not involved in the induction of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines.	The serine protease thrombin is known as a blood coagulation factor. Through limited cleavage of proteinase-activated receptors it can also control growth and functions in various cell types, including neurons, astrocytes, and microglia (brain macrophages). A number of previous studies indicated that thrombin induces the release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines from microglial cells, suggesting another important role for the protease beyond hemostasis. In the present report, we provide evidence that this effect is not mediated by any proteolytic or non-proteolytic mechanism involving thrombin proper. Inhibition of the enzymatic thrombin activity did not affect the microglial release response. Instead the cyto-/chemokine-inducing activity solely resided in a high molecular weight protein fraction that could be isolated in trace amounts even from apparently homogenous alpha- and gamma-thrombin preparations. High molecular weight material contained thrombin-derived peptides as revealed by mass spectrometry but was devoid of thrombin-like enzymatic activity. Separated from the high molecular weight fraction by fast protein liquid chromatography, enzymatically intact alpha- and gamma-thrombin failed to trigger any release. Our findings may force a revision of the notion that thrombin itself is a direct proinflammatory release signal for microglia. In addition, they could be relevant for the study of other cellular activities and their assignment to this protease.
Possible involvement of thrombin/protease-activated receptor 1 system in the pathogenesis of endometriosis.	Endometriosis is known to be associated with local inflammatory reactions. Given the emerging concept of thrombin and its specific receptor, protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1), as important players in inflammation and cell proliferation, we investigated whether thrombin and PAR1 might be involved in the pathophysiology of the disease, using a primary cell culture system of endometriotic tissues. PAR1 mRNA was expressed in primary endometriotic stromal cells (ESCs). Thrombin and SFLLRN (Ser-Phe-Leu-Leu-Arg-Asp), a PAR1 agonist peptide, increased the mRNA expression of IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and the protein secretion of IL-8 nd MCP-1 in ESCs. The addition of thrombin inhibitor d-phenylalanyl-l-prolyl-l arginine chloromethyl ketone (PPACK) together with thrombin inhibited the thrombin-induced secretion of IL-8 and MCP-1. Thrombin, but not SFLLRN, activated matrix metalloproteinase-2 in ESCs, and the effect was inhibited by PPACK. Thrombin and SFLLRN increased proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive ratio of ESCs, indicating their cell proliferation-stimulating effects. The thrombin-induced increase in proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive ratio was diminished by PPACK. These findings imply that the thrombin system might be involved in the pathophysiology of endometriosis, stimulating inflammatory responses of endometriotic cells and their mitogenic activity.
Relative antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects of protein C activator versus low-molecular-weight heparin in primates.	The anticoagulant and anti-inflammatory enzyme, activated protein C (APC), naturally controls thrombosis without affecting hemostasis. We therefore evaluated whether the integrity of primary hemostasis was preserved during limited pharmacological antithrombotic protein C activator (PCA) treatment in baboons. The double-mutant thrombin (Trp215Ala/Glu217Ala) with less than 1% procoagulant activity was used as a relatively selective PCA and compared with systemic anticoagulation by APC and low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) at doses that inhibited fibrin deposition on thrombogenic segments of arteriovenous shunts. As expected, both systemic anticoagulants, APC (0.028 or 0.222 mg/kg for 70 minutes) and LMWH (0.325 to 2.6 mg/kg for 70 minutes), were antithrombotic and prolonged the template bleeding time. In contrast, PCA at doses (0.0021 to 0.0083 mg/kg for 70 minutes) that had antithrombotic effects comparable with LMWH did not demonstrably impair primary hemostasis. PCA bound to platelets and leukocytes, and accumulated in thrombi. APC infusion at higher circulating APC levels was less antithrombotic than PCA infusion at lower circulating APC levels. The observed dissociation of antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects during PCA infusion thus appeared to emulate the physiological regulation of intravascular blood coagulation (thrombosis) by the endogenous protein C system. Our data suggest that limited pharmacological protein C activation might exhibit considerable thrombosis specificity.
Ca2+ influx via TRPC channels induces NF-kappaB-dependent A20 expression to prevent thrombin-induced apoptosis in endothelial cells.	NF-kappaB signaling is known to induce the expression of antiapoptotic and proinflammatory genes in endothelial cells (ECs). We have shown recently that Ca(2+) influx through canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) channels activates NF-kappaB in ECs. Here we show that Ca(2+) influx signal prevents thrombin-induced apoptosis by inducing NF-kappaB-dependent A20 expression in ECs. Knockdown of TRPC1 expressed in human umbilical vein ECs with small interfering RNA (siRNA) suppressed thrombin-induced Ca(2+) influx and NF-kappaB activation in ECs. Interestingly, we observed that thrombin induced >25% of cell death (apoptosis) in TRPC1-knockdown ECs whereas thrombin had no effect on control or control siRNA-transfected ECs. To understand the basis of EC survival, we performed gene microarray analysis using ECs. Thrombin stimulation increased only a set of NF-kappaB-regulated genes 3- to 14-fold over basal levels in ECs. Expression of the antiapoptotic gene A20 was the highest among these upregulated genes. Like TRPC1 knockdown, thrombin induced apoptosis in A20-knockdown ECs. To address the importance of Ca(2+) influx signal, we measured thrombin-induced A20 expression in control and TRPC1-knockdown ECs. Thrombin-induced p65/RelA binding to A20 promoter-specific NF-kappaB sequence and A20 protein expression were suppressed in TRPC1-knockdown ECs compared with control ECs. Furthermore, in TRPC1-knockdown ECs, thrombin induced the expression of proapoptotic proteins caspase-3 and BAX. Importantly, thrombin-induced apoptosis in TRPC1-knockdown ECs was prevented by adenovirus-mediated expression of A20. These results suggest that Ca(2+) influx via TRPC channels plays a critical role in the mechanism of cell survival signaling through A20 expression in ECs.
Tissue factor over-expression by human pancreatic cancer cells BXPC3 is related to higher prothrombotic potential as compared to breast cancer cells MCF7.	Cancer histology influences the risk of venous thromboembolism and tissue factor (TF) is the key molecule in cancer-induced hypercoagulability. We investigated the relation between TF expression by pancreatic and breast cancer cells (BXPC3 and MCF7 respectively) and their capacity to trigger in vitro thrombin generation in normal human plasma. Flow cytometry and Western blot analysis for TF expression were performed using murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody against human TF. Real-time PCR for TFmRNA was also performed. Activity of TF expressed by cancer cells was measured with a specific chromogenic assay. Thrombin generation in PPP was assessed using calibrated automated thrombogram. Cancer cells were added to platelet poor plasma from healthy volunteers. In separate experiments cells were incubated with the anti-TF antibody at concentration that completely neutralized the activity of recombinant human TF on thrombin generation. BXPC3 cells expressed significantly higher amounts of functional TF as compared to MCF7 cells. Incubation of BXPC3 and MCF7 cells with PPP resulted in acceleration of the initiation phase of thrombin generation. BXPC3 cells manifested higher procoagulant potential than MCF7 cells. The incubation of BXPC3 or MCF7 cells with the anti-TF monoclonal antibody which resulted in reversal of their effect on thrombin generation. The present study establishes a link between the amount of TF expressed by cancer cells with their procoagulant activity. Both studied types of cancer cells trigger thrombin generation but they have different procoagulant potential. The procoagulant activity of BXPC3 and MCF7 cells is related to the amount of TF expressed. Kinetic parameters of thrombogram are the most relevant for the detection of the TF-dependent procoagulant activity of cancer cells. TF expression is one of the mechanisms by which cancer cells manifest their procoagulant potential but it is not the unique one. The present experimental model will allow the characterization the procoagulant fingerprint of cell lines from the same or different histological types of cancer.
Pathologies at the nexus of blood coagulation and inflammation: thrombin in hemostasis, cancer, and beyond.	Thrombin is the protease involved in blood coagulation. Its deregulation can lead to hemostatic abnormalities, which range from subtle subclinical to serious life-threatening coagulopathies, i.e., during septicemia. Additionally, thrombin plays important roles in many (patho)physiological conditions that reach far beyond its well-established role in stemming blood loss and thrombosis, including embryonic development and angiogenesis but also extending to inflammatory processes, complement activation, and even tumor biology. In this review, we will address thrombin's broad roles in diverse (patho)physiological processes in an integrative way. We will also discuss thrombin as an emerging major target for novel therapies. 
Novel role for p21-activated kinase 2 in thrombin-induced monocyte migration.	To understand the role of thrombin in inflammation, we tested its effects on migration of THP-1 cells, a human monocytic cell line. Thrombin induced THP-1 cell migration in a dose-dependent manner. Thrombin induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Pyk2, Gab1, and p115 RhoGEF, leading to Rac1- and RhoA-dependent Pak2 activation. Downstream to Pyk2, Gab1 formed a complex with p115 RhoGEF involving their pleckstrin homology domains. Furthermore, inhibition or depletion of Pyk2, Gab1, p115 RhoGEF, Rac1, RhoA, or Pak2 levels substantially attenuated thrombin-induced THP-1 cell F-actin cytoskeletal remodeling and migration. Inhibition or depletion of PAR1 also blocked thrombin-induced activation of Pyk2, Gab1, p115 RhoGEF, Rac1, RhoA, and Pak2, resulting in diminished THP-1 cell F-actin cytoskeletal remodeling and migration. Similarly, depletion of Gα12 negated thrombin-induced Pyk2, Gab1, p115 RhoGEF, Rac1, RhoA, and Pak2 activation, leading to attenuation of THP-1 cell F-actin cytoskeletal remodeling and migration. These novel observations reveal that thrombin induces monocyte/macrophage migration via PAR1-Gα12-dependent Pyk2-mediated Gab1 and p115 RhoGEF interactions, leading to Rac1- and RhoA-targeted Pak2 activation. Thus, these findings provide mechanistic evidence for the role of thrombin and its receptor PAR1 in inflammation. 
Mast cell-restricted tetramer-forming tryptases and their beneficial roles in hemostasis and blood coagulation.	Tetramer-forming tryptase (hTryptase-β) was recently discovered to have a prominent role in preventing the internal accumulation of life-threatening fibrin deposits and fibrin-platelet clots. The anticoagulant activity of hTryptase-β is an explanation for the presence of hemorrhagic disorders in some patients with anaphylaxis or mastocytosis. The fragments of hFibrinogen formed by the proteolysis of this prominent protein by hTryptase-β could be used as biomarkers in the blood and/or urine for the identification and monitoring of patients with mast cell-dependent disorders. Recombinant hTryptase-β has potential to be used in clinical settings where it is desirable to inhibit blood coagulation. 
Binding of hirudin to meizothrombin.	Prothrombin (coagulation factor II) is the inactive precursor molecule of thrombin (coagulation factor IIa). Proteolytic cleavage of the peptide bond Arg320-Ile321 converts prothrombin into the two-chain thrombin precursor meizothrombin. Meizothrombin hydrolyses peptidyl substrates, but cleavage of fibrinogen is poor. Unfortunately, meizothrombin exhibits a significant autocatalytic activity and thus is not structurally stable in solution. Hirudin, the 65-residue peptide anticoagulant from the salivary gland of the European leech Hirudo medicinalis, is a highly specific and effective thrombin inhibitor. To study the interactions of meizothrombin and hirudin, recombinant prothrombin with active site Asp419 replaced by Asn (D419N-prothrombin) was produced in CHO cells and transformed into D419N-meizothrombin in vitro. D419N-meizothrombin exhibited no proteolytic and autocatalytic activity. D419N-meizothrombin was affinity purified at an immobilized C-terminal hirudin-derived peptide demonstrating the presence and activity of the anion binding exosite. D419N-meizothrombin exhibited binding activity to hirudin immobilized at the solid phase in an ELISA. Incubation of D419N-meizothrombin with hirudin resulted in a significant increase of intrinsic fluorescence. Fluorescence titration of D419N-meizothrombin with hirudin produced a sharp break in the titration curve at the molar equivalence point and a total fluorescence enhancement of 24%. However, the titration curve did not reflect a simple binding mechanism. Incubation of D419N-meizothrombin with fibrinopeptide A and C-terminal hirudin peptide 54-65 did not change fluorescence emission. Trp468 located in the gamma-loop of thrombin was replaced by Phe in the double-mutant D419N/W468F-thrombin. Similar to D419N-thrombin and D419N-meizothrombin, formation of the D419N/W468F-thrombin/hirudin complex resulted a significant increase in intrinsic fluorescence. Apparently, the binding of hirudin induces similar structural changes in both meizothrombin and thrombin. The structural change does not involve the flexible gamma-loop. The results suggest that meizothrombin binds hirudin similar to thrombin.
