Combined treatment with nafamostat mesilate and aspirin prevents heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in a hemodialysis patient.	We report on the management of a 36-year-old hemodialysis patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT, type II) and clot formation in extracorporeal circulation. Platelet aggregation test and measurement of anti-platelet factor 4/heparin complex antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed to us that our patient had developed HIT. Instead of heparin, we used nafamostat mesilate (NM) as an anticoagulant during hemodialysis, but could not completely prevent HIT-induced thrombocytopenia or clot formation in the extracorporeal circuit. Combined use of NM and aspirin completely inhibited platelet aggregation, decrease in platelet count and clot formation in the extracorporeal circuit.
Recombinant human interleukin-11 in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia]	To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of domestic recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11) in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.
The efficiency of transfusing high doses of platelets in hematologic patients with thrombocytopenia: results of a prospective, randomized, open, blinded end point (PROBE) study.	We performed a prospective, randomized, open, blinded end point (PROBE) study to assess the efficiency of transfusing high doses of platelets in patients with thrombocytopenia, either acute leukemia (AL) or those undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AT). Patients were randomly assigned to receive transfusions with a target dose of 0.5 x 10(11)/10 kg (arm A) or 1 x 10(11)/10 kg (arm B). A total of 101 patients were included, of whom 96 were given at least one transfusion. The median time between the first transfusion and when the platelet count reached at least 20 x 10(9)/L increased from 63 hours to 95 hours in the arm B group (P = .001), and the median number of transfusions was lower in this group (2; P = .037). The total number of transfused platelets did not differ between groups (14.9 x 10(11) for arm A versus 18.5 x 10(11) for arm B; P = .156). In such patients, a prophylactic strategy of high doses of platelets could improve platelet transfusion efficiency.
Antiplatelet and antithrombotic effects of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) inhibition by arginine-glycine-aspartic acid-serine (RGDS) and arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) (O-me)Y (SC-46749).	Arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) is the minimal sequence in fibrinogen that leads to recognition and binding to the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa platelet receptor during aggregation. Analogs of tetrapeptides containing the RGD sequence have been previously shown to block fibrinogen binding to activated platelets in vitro. SC-46749 is an analog of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid-phenylalanine in which the phenylalanine is replaced by O-methyltyrosine. In this study the biological activities of SC-46749 were examined and its actions compared with the tetrapeptide arginine-glycine-aspartic acid-serine (RGDS), one of the natural sequences on the fibrinogen alpha chain that binds to platelets. In vitro, SC-46749 was more potent than RGDS in inhibiting fibrinogen binding (IC50: SC-46749, 27 microM; RGDS, 47 microM), in preventing ADP-induced aggregation in human platelet-rich plasma (IC50: SC-46749, 32 microM; RGDS, 95 microM) and in inhibiting thrombin-induced aggregation in washed human platelets (IC50: SC-46749, 23 microM; RGDS, 64 microM). In rats, SC-46749 prevented collagen-induced thrombocytopenia with an ED50 of 0.87 mg/kg whereas RGDS did not inhibit the response by 50% at doses up to 10 mg/kg. SC-46749 inhibited thrombus formation in an electrically damaged rat carotid artery in a dose-dependent fashion whereas the effects of RGDS were biphasic. RGDS appeared to delay thrombus formation at lower doses but had no effect at higher doses. When infused in dogs for 15 min, SC-46749 prevented ex vivo collagen-induced aggregation at 4 mg/kg/min. These data demonstrate that SC-46749 is a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation and platelet-dependent thrombus formation.
Effect of SC 38249, a novel substituted imidazole, on platelet aggregation in vitro and in vivo.	SC 38249 [RS)-1-(2,3-bis-[(4-methoxyphenyl)methoxy]propyl)-1H-imidazole) caused dose-related inhibition of collagen-induced thromboxane A2 formation in human platelet rich plasma (IC50: 9.9 +/- 1.0 microM) accompanied by a dose-dependent increase in plasma PGE2. Broad inhibitory activity was evident against human platelet aggregatory and secretory responses in vitro. IC50 values of 11.9 +/- 1.9 microM (0.64 mM arachidonic acid), 18.3 +/- 3.8 microM (0.5 microgram ml-1 collagen) and 37.6 +/- 6.1 microM (25 nM Paf-acether) were obtained against maximum increase in PRP light transmission achieved by each agonist. Although less potent, SC 38249 retained significant inhibitory activity against PRP responses induced by a higher (3.0 micrograms ml-1) concentration of collagen (IC50: 272.5 +/- 24.6 microM), and against Paf-acether-induced responses in PRP pre-treated with 10 microM indomethacin (I.C.50: 192.0 +/- 16.1 microM). Experimental animal studies confirmed the in vitro anti-aggregatory efficacy of SC 38249, since significant inhibitory activity was observed against Paf-acether and ADP-induced responses in dog PRP ex vivo, anti-Forssman antibody-induced thrombocytopenia in anaesthetized guinea pigs, and collagen-induced intravascular aggregation in anaesthetized rabbits. Thus, SC 38249 is a novel thromboxane synthase inhibitor which possesses interesting anti-aggregatory properties which cannot wholly be attributed to prevention of platelet thromboxane A2 formation.
Effect of the thrombolytic agent, streptokinase, on the responses to endotoxemia in conscious rats.	The potential role of coagulation defects as a pathologic mediator in septic shock is well documented, especially as it relates to increased thromboxane formation, thrombocytopenia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. The present study was designed to determine the effect of the thrombolytic agent streptokinase on the sequelae of endotoxemia in the rat. Conscious male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a bolus intravenous dose of Salmonella enteritidis endotoxin (20 mg/kg; LD90 dose) 5 min after the intravenous administration of streptokinase (10,000 U/kg bolus + 1,000 U/kg/hr infusion), or heparin (100 U/kg bolus + 30 U/kg/hr infusion). The effects of streptokinase or heparin on blood clotting were determined by measuring ex vivo clot formation 1 hr after the administration of endotoxin. In naive and endotoxemic animals, both agents significantly reduced clot formation (P less than 0.05). In endotoxemic animals, streptokinase or heparin improved survival to 70%, compared to 8% survival in the endotoxin + vehicle group (P less than 0.05). The improvement in survival with streptokinase was dose-dependent. Neither streptokinase nor heparin prevented the thrombocytopenia or hemoconcentration which developed in endotoxemic animals. These results demonstrate the potential utility of streptokinase for improving survival in endotoxemia and further confirm the deleterious contribution of coagulation disorders in endotoxic mortality.
The effect of ketanserin on blood pressure and platelets during cardiopulmonary bypass.	Ketanserin, a serotonin antagonist, was used to control blood pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass in 12 patients having cardiac surgery. The drug was administered as a 10 mg bolus followed by a continuous infusion of either 40, 80, or 120 mg/hr to maintain mean arterial blood pressure below 70 mm Hg. There were 16 hypertensive episodes of which 15 (93.7%) were successfully controlled with ketanserin. Mean arterial pressure decreased significantly from an average of 72 +/- 3 to 52 +/- 9 mm Hg after 1 min. The effect that ketanserin had on platelets was also evaluated. Neither adverse nor salutary effects were seen in the platelet count, though a significant inhibition of serotonin-induced platelet aggregation was observed. Ketanserin proved effective for controlling hypertension during cardiopulmonary bypass but, despite inhibition of serotonin-induced platelet aggregation, it did not prevent thrombocytopenia.
Splenic platelet-sequestration following routine blood transfusion is reduced by filtered/washed blood products.	The mean fall in the platelet count following 23 routine transfusions of 3-5 units packed cells for anaemia was 32.5%. This was significantly reduced to 12.5% in 15 similar transfusions through a 40 microns microaggregate filter (P less than 0.01) and to 4.6% following five transfusions through a polyester fibre filter (P less than 0.005). In 10 transfusions with frozen or polyester fibre filtered, washed red cells, the decrease in platelet count was 4.2% (P less than 0.001). A study of 111In-oxine labelled autologous platelets in nine patients indicated that the fall in platelet count was due to increased splenic sequestration. Since thrombocytopenia following routine transfusion is reduced by procedures which filter the packed cells, the decrease in platelets is probably caused by their adherence to infused microaggregate debris causing their premature removal from the circulation. Patients with preexisting thrombocytopenia who receive red cell transfusions for anaemia, should therefore receive blood products depleted of microaggregate debris in order to avoid exacerbation of thrombocytopenia and haemorrhagic complications.
Ex vivo expansion of megakaryocyte precursors by preincubation of marrow allografts with interleukin-3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in vitro.	Protracted thrombocytopenia and bleeding remain serious complications in bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Major progress has been made in facilitating myeloid and erythroid engraftment, but little has been made in accelerating thrombopoiesis post-BMT. We report that in vitro preincubation of T cell-depleted BM allografts with a combination of interleukin-3 (IL-3) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (0.1 microgram/mL each) (n = 8), for 3 days prior to infusion, expands megakaryocyte (MK) precursors. MK-progenitor proliferation was assessed in plasma clot colony assays and liquid cultures following pre-exposure to IL-3/GM-CSF. We observed a 2.8-fold increase in the number of colony-forming units-megakaryocyte (CFU-MK) (17.3 +/- 5.2 vs. 6.1 +/- 3.4) (p = 0.001) and a two-fold increase in burst-forming units-megakaryocyte (BFU-MK) (0.2 vs. 0.1) (p = 0.01) per 2 x 10(5) cells/mL compared to control BM samples cultured for 3 days in medium alone. In secondary cultures, the continued presence of IL-3 and GM-CSF increased the number of CFU-MK by 200-fold (p < 0.0001) over controls and by 9.7-fold over fresh BM. A 33-fold increase (p < 0.0001) in the number of BFU-MK was elicited compared to controls. In addition, IL-3 plus GM-CSF supported increased cellularity within the colonies. The presence of IL-3 or GM-CSF alone resulted in fewer MK colonies and fewer cells per colony than both cytokines combined. In liquid cultures, the percentage of cells expressing platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa in the continued presence of IL-3 and GM-CSF increased following preincubation, yielding a total of 16.0 +/- 2.3 x 10(4) MK/2 x 10(6) cells at day 10 of culture. We propose that ex vivo preincubation with IL-3 and GM-CSF can expand the number of MK precursors and may facilitate platelet recovery post-BMT.
The efficacy of heparin and antithrombin III in fluid-resuscitated cecal ligation and puncture.	Sepsis/septic shock and multiple organ failure are important causes of morbidity and mortality. Our objective was to study sepsis and organ failure in a fluid-resuscitated septic model. Males S-D rats were anesthetized with halothane, the jugular vein catheterized, and CLP performed. Each rat was maintained in a metabolism cage on continuous intravenous fluid (3 mL/rat). Urine rate and [creatinine]urine were measured daily. At day 5, serum creatinine with chemistry profile, complete blood count, clotting times, and wet lung/body weight ratios were also measured. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was measured according to the principle of endogenous creatinine clearance. GFR was correlated with the product of urine rate x [creatinine]urine (R = .79), so that product was used as a daily indicator of GFR. Urine output remained > or = normal during sepsis. Heparin and antithrombin III were tested in this model. The model was associated with 40% mortality, a 60% reduction in platelet count, liver damage, a 75% reduction in renal function, muscle damage, and a normal wet lung/body weight ratio. Treatment with heparin/antithrombin III ameliorated the decrease in GFR (p < .05) observed in the nontreated animals, prevented the septic-induced thrombocytopenia (p < .05), and improved survival (p = .05).
Routine maternal platelet count: an assessment of a technologically driven screening practice.	Because automated blood cell counters are now widely used in many clinical settings, an assessment of hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit is invariably accompanied by a platelet count. Thus many asymptomatic pregnant women are being screened for thrombocytopenia. The objective of a good screening program is to reduce morbidity and mortality and thereby improve the quality of life; criteria for the evaluation of proposed or ongoing screening programs are well established. However, the screening of pregnant women for thrombocytopenia seems to have been both technologically mandated and passively accepted. Therefore we systematically evaluated the current de facto screening of asymptomatic pregnant patients for thrombocytopenia in the context of well-explained, desirable characteristics for a successful screening program. We conclude that screening for thrombocytopenia in pregnancy fails to meet established criteria, may actually be harmful (by placing unaffected fetuses of thrombocytopenic women, and the women themselves, at risk from invasive procedures), and should therefore be discontinued.
Effect of glycoprotein IIb-IIIa receptor antagonism on platelet membrane glycoproteins after coronary stent placement.	Platelet membrane glycoproteins play a crucial role in ischemic complications after coronary stenting. Glycoprotein IIb-IIIa blockade reduces adverse clinical events after angioplasty but is associated with rare but profound thrombocytopenia that might increase hemorrhagic complications. Changes in platelet membrane glycoproteins of patients with angina who underwent coronary stenting and were treated with the GPIIb-IIIa antagonist abciximab (n=20) or with heparin (n=23) were studied. GPIb-IIIa receptor blockade and membrane glycoproteins were evaluated with immunological markers in venous blood samples taken before. 10, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h after initial treatment with either abciximab or heparin. Patients receiving abciximab therapy showed a rapid inhibition of binding of fluorochrome-conjugated mAb CD41 and c7E3 concomitant with a reduction in platelet aggregation which was restored in part in the days after termination of abciximab infusion. Induction of ligand-induced binding sites on GPIIb-IIIa was increased in patients receiving abciximab. The expression of ligand-induced binding sites correlated inversely with platelet count. No significant change in platelet membrane markers were found in the heparin group. In vitro studies showed that abciximab induces ligand-induced binding sites on isolated platelets and on nuclear cells bearing recombinant GPIIb-IIIa. Abciximab rapidly achieves GPIIb-IIIa receptor blockade after coronary stent placement that might be beneficial in high-risk settings to bridge the delayed action of ticlopidine. Significant alterations of platelet membrane glycoproteins during GPIIb-IIIa antagonism might contribute to development of acute profound thrombocytopenia.
