Report of 8 cases of bcr-abl gene positive thrombocytosis and review of the literature]	To analyse the features of 8 cases of Bcr(+) thrombocytosis.
Three new cases of chromosome 3 rearrangement in bands q21 and q26 with abnormal thrombopoiesis bring further evidence to the existence of a 3q21q26 syndrome.	Defects of 3q in bands q21 and q26 have been reported in more than 70 cases of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) in blast crisis. In this paper three additional patients are described: patient 1 with refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation (RAEB-T) and inv(3)(q21q26), patient 2 with RAEB-T and t(3;3)(q21;q26), and patient 3 with myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM) in blast crisis and inv(3)(q21q26). In addition to 3q rearrangements, monosomy 7 and del(7)(q22q36) were observed in patients 1 and 2, respectively. In the three patients, the most characteristic clinical features were elevated platelet counts, marked hyperplasia with dysplasia of the megakaryocytes, and poor prognosis. Although disturbance of thrombopoiesis was not systematically observed in all patients with t(3;3)(q21;q26), inv(3)(q21q26), and ins or dup(3)(q21----q26), study of the 77 cases reported and of the three cases presented here brings further evidence to the existence of a cytogenetic syndrome involving bands q21 and q26 simultaneously, which represents a subtype of ANLL, MDS, and MPD, characterized by normal or elevated platelet counts, hyperplasia with dysplasia of megakaryocytes, multilineage involvement, young median age of patients with MDS, preferential involvement of women in t(3;3), high incidence of chromosome 7 defects in MDS and ANLL, short duration of the MDS phase, no response to chemotherapy, short survival, and por prognosis.
Cytogenetic and molecular studies of the Philadelphia translocation in myelodysplastic syndromes. Report of two cases and review of the literature.	We report two patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome and the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. The first patient was a 73-year-old man who was diagnosed as having a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia in combination with features suggestive of a myeloproliferative syndrome. Chromosomal analysis showed a normal karyotype in the majority of cells, mixed with metaphases containing a standard Ph translocation, t(9;22)(q34;q11), as well as a translocation between chromosome 4 and 6: t(4;6)(p15;p12). Southern blot analysis showed breakpoint cluster region rearrangement as observed in classic chronic myeloid leukemia. The second patient was a 63-year-old man with a myelodysplastic syndrome, type refractory anemia. Cytogenetic study of bone marrow cells at the time of diagnosis revealed a normal karyotype: 46,XY. The initial myelodysplastic syndrome evolved to a myeloproliferative phase with progressive leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. During the terminal phase the Ph chromosome was discovered in 100% of the examined cells. We discuss the correlation between MDS and myeloproliferative diseases, the de novo acquisition of the Ph chromosome during the course of a myelodysplastic syndrome, and review the literature.
Trisomy 9 in hematologic disorders: possible association with primary thrombocytosis.	Ten patients with a hematologic disorder and a clone of cells with trisomy 9 in the bone marrow were studied in order to investigate the clinical significance of this chromosome anomaly. In five of the patients, trisomy 9 was the only anomaly; in four, there was also trisomy 8; and in one, a Y chromosome was also lacking. Four patients had a myelodysplastic syndrome, and six had a myeloproliferative disorder. Interestingly, four patients had primary thrombocytosis.
