Thrombin and albumin adsorption to PVA and heparin-PVA hydrogels. I. Single protein isotherms.	More radiolabeled thrombin was adsorbed to heparin-polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) than to PVA, consistent with a specific interaction with the immobilized heparin. The maximum surface concentration on heparin-PVA was estimated to be approximately 450 nmol/m2 with an apparent affinity constant (Ka) of 2.5 microM-1; on PVA, the plateau concentration was 10 nmol/m2 with a Ka less than 1 nM-1. There was little difference in bovine serum albumin (BSA) adsorption between PVA and heparin-PVA. Interestingly, thrombin adsorption to polyethylene was indistinguishable from that to PVA despite the large difference in surface chemistry. BSA adsorbed to polyethylene with higher affinity than to the hydrogels, although the plateau concentrations were comparable. The adsorbed thrombin was biologically inactive at least towards chromogenic substrate, with the residual activity on PVA unaffected by subsequent incubations with antithrombin III. PVA and heparin-PVA presented a heterogeneous and complex substrate for interaction with proteins. The adsorbed protein was likely present in multiple states depending on the groups with which it interacted.
High incorporation of [3H]inositol into phosphoinositides of human platelets during reversible electropermeabilisation.	A new method for high incorporation of [3H]inositol into human platelets is described. The method involves incorporation of [3H]inositol during reversible electropermeabilisation by high voltage discharge, followed by resealing the cells during incubation at 37 degrees C. Between 10- and 20-fold increase of isotope uptake is achieved compared to control intact cells. Permeabilised resealed platelets maintain good responses to thrombin and collagen. Analysis of the incorporation of the label amongst the phosphoinositides shows 70% to be in PI, 20% in PIP, and 10% in PIP2. Stimulation with thrombin and analysis of the formation of IP1, IP2 and IP3 shows the labelling to occur in a hormone-sensitive pool. These studies indicate that reversible electropermeabilisation can be used to achieve good uptake of non-membrane penetrating substances such as inositol.
The effect of thrombomodulin on the cleavage of fibrinogen and fibrinogen fragments by thrombin.	Thrombomodulin acts as a linear competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to the substrate fibrinogen. In the present study the effect of thrombomodulin on the activity of thrombin with fragments of the A alpha and B beta chain of fibrinogen has been examined. The cleavage of fibrinopeptide A from the N-terminal disulphide knot, fragment 1-44 and fragment 1-51 of the A alpha chain was inhibited by thrombomodulin. The average value for the inhibition constant obtained with these substrates was 0.83 +/- 0.09 nM, which was in good agreement with the values obtained previously for the inhibition of thrombin by thrombomodulin with native fibrinogen as the substrate [Hofsteenge, J., Taguchi, H. & Stone, S. R. (1986) Biochem. J. 237, 243-251]. In contrast, the cleavage of fibrinopeptide A from fragment 1-23 and fragment 1-29 of the A alpha chain was not affected by thrombomodulin. Although the cleavage of the B beta chain in the intact fibrinogen molecule was inhibited by thrombomodulin [Hofsteenge, J., Taguchi, H. & Stone, S. R. (1986) Biochem. J. 237, 243-251], the release of fibrinopeptide B from the N-terminal disulphide knot and the N-terminal 118-residue fragment of the B beta chain was not inhibited by thrombomodulin. In addition, we determined the second-order rate constants of cleavage of these substrates using human thrombin. Fragments of the A alpha chain whose cleavage was inhibited by thrombomodulin were found to have values for kcat/Km that were within one order of magnitude of that for the native fibrinogen, whereas those for A alpha chain fragments whose cleavage was not inhibited by thrombomodulin were found to be more than two orders of magnitudes lower. From these results we conclude that only a relatively small portion of the A alpha chain of the fibrinogen molecule is responsible for the specific binding to thrombin that is affected by thrombomodulin. Moreover, residues 30-44 of the A alpha chain play an important role in this thrombin-fibrinogen interaction.
