Blast injury from explosive munitions.	To evaluate the effect of blast in common war injuries.
Mechanisms involved in the antiplatelet activity of rutin, a glycoside of the flavonol quercetin, in human platelets.	The aim of this study was to systematically examine the inhibitory mechanisms of rutin, a well-known flavonoid in platelet aggregation. In this study, rutin concentration-dependently (250 and 290 microM) inhibited platelet aggregation in human platelets stimulated by agonists (i.e., collagen). Rutin (250 and 290 microM) did not significantly interfere with the binding of FITC-triflavin to the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex in human platelets. Rutin (250 and 290 microM) markedly inhibited intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization and thromboxane A(2) formation in human platelets stimulated by collagen. Rapid phosphorylation of a platelet protein of M(r) 47000 (P47), a marker of protein kinase C activation, was triggered by collagen (1 microg/mL). This phosphorylation was markedly inhibited by rutin (250 and 290 microM). On the other hand, rutin (250 and 290 microM) did not significantly increase the formations of cyclic AMP and nitric oxide/cyclic GMP in platelets. In conclusion, these results indicate that the antiplatelet activity of rutin may involve the following pathways: rutin inhibited the activation of phospholipase C, followed by inhibition of protein kinase C activity and thromboxane A(2) formation, thereby leading to inhibition of the phosphorylation of P47 and intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization, finally resulting in inhibition of platelet aggregation.
Putative mechanism of hypotensive action of platelet-activating factor in dogs.	We examined the mechanism(s) of hypotensive action of platelet-activating factor (PAF) in anesthetized dogs. PAF (0.5 micrograms/kg i.v.) caused a biphasic hypotension; the first phase was transient and was accompanied by a decrease in systemic vascular resistance and an increase in cardiac output. Aspirin-DL-lysine, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, had no effect on this phase. The second phase was characterized by a sustained hypotension caused by a reduction in cardiac output and was accompanied by an increase in systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance. The plasma concentrations of 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha and thromboxane B2 also increased. These changes were markedly attenuated by aspirin. Both atrial pressures decreased during the second phase, thereby indicating that the PAF-induced reduction in cardiac output was related to a hindrance in venous return. The hematocrit increased, and aspirin did not affect this change. The extravasation of plasma probably plays a minor role, whereas venodilation would be the primary mechanism of the second-phase hypotension. S-1452, a prostaglandin H2/thromboxane A2 antagonist, abolished the PAF-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction but did not block the hypotensive action of PAF. OKY-046, a thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitor, almost completely abolished the PAF-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction and the increase in plasma thromboxane B2 level, whereas it potentiated the hypotension and the increase in the plasma concentrations of prostaglandins; aspirin abolished this potentiation. These results suggest that PAF causes hypotension by two different mechanisms: 1) dilatation of resistance vessels independent of prostaglandins and 2) reduction of venous return due to venodilation, as mediated by prostaglandin(s).
Thromboxane/prostacyclin balance in type II diabetes: gliclazide effects.	We studied serum thromboxane (TXB2), the prostacyclin metabolite, 6-keto-PGF1 (6KPGF1) glucose, insulin, and lipid/lipoprotein profiles in 27 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) who were switched from therapy with glibenclamide (GLB) (with [GLBH] or without phenformin) to gliclazide for 3 months. We found that therapy with gliclazide was followed by a decrease in serum TXB2 (281.8 +/- 128.3 to 149.1 +/- 77.0 mg/L, P less than .001) and an increase in serum 6KPGF1 (60.5 +/- 19.1 to 96.0 +/- 40.3 mg/L, P less than .001). This was accompanied by a decrease in total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and an increase in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, within the HDL3 cholesterol fraction. These changes were seen despite the fact that neither fasting plasma glucose nor insulin changed with therapy. These findings suggest that gliclazide may have beneficial actions on cardiovascular risk factors in these NIDDM patients.
Hydrogen peroxide triggers activation of human platelets selectively exposed to nonaggregating concentrations of arachidonic acid and collagen.	The effects of H2O2 on platelet function were investigated in vitro and ex vivo. H2O2 (0.5 to 5 mumol/L) alone did not influence platelet function, but when it was combined with subthreshold concentrations of arachidonic acid or collagen, it induced platelet aggregation and serotonin release in a dose-dependent fashion. The increase in platelet aggregation was associated with thromboxane A2 production and was prevented by 100 mumol/L aspirin. The amplification of platelet response by H2O2 was also inhibited 2 hours after 300 mg aspirin was given to healthy subjects. H2O2 alone did not affect intraplatelet Ca++ influx or mobilization but, combined with subthreshold concentrations of arachidonic acid, it increased Ca++ mobilization. In platelets prelabeled with tritiated arachidonic acid, H2O2 induced tritium release in a dose-dependent fashion; this effect was prevented by mepacrine, an inhibitor of the phospholipase A2 enzyme. Platelet function was not affected by using H2O2 in combination with other agonists such as thrombin, calcium ionophore, or adenosine diphosphate. This study suggests that H2O2 triggers activation of platelets preexposed to agonists at subthreshold levels by stimulating arachidonic acid metabolism, likely by stimulating the phospholipase A2 enzyme. The stimulation of platelets by concentrations of H2O2 similar to those released by activated leukocytes may give new insights into the functional cooperation between leukocytes and platelets.
Platelet function in acute experimental pancreatitis induced by ischaemia-reperfusion.	Ischaemia-reperfusion (IR)-associated microcirculatory changes play a major role in acute post-transplantation pancreatitis. The pathophysiological role of platelets in these events is unknown. The aim of this study was to examine platelet adhesion and function during early reperfusion after pancreatic ischaemia.
Thromboxane and prostacyclin production in ponies with colonic volvulus.	Effects of 1 hour of colonic volvulus and 3 hours of reperfusion on concentrations of thromboxane (TXB2) and prostacyclin (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) in portal, pulmonary arterial, and jugular blood were determined by radioimmunoassay to assess the site of production and clearance of these eicosanoids from the circulation in 5 anesthetized ponies. Colonic volvulus had no significant effect on mean arterial pressure or TXB2 concentrations, but significantly (P less than 0.05) increased 6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentrations in all blood samples. Immediately after colonic reperfusion, all eicosanoid concentrations were significantly (P less than 0.05) increased. Then, TXB2 returned to baseline values, whereas 6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentrations remained significantly (P less than 0.05) high for the remainder of the study. Eicosanoid concentrations were significantly (P less than 0.05) greater in portal blood than in pulmonary arterial and jugular blood samples at all periods. This suggests that the splanchnic circulation is the primary site of eicosanoid production during and after colonic volvulus and the liver appears to provide most of the circulatory clearance of thromboxane and prostacyclin.
Role of PPAR-gamma on the pathogenesis and vascular changes in glycerol-induced acute renal failure.	Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a nuclear transcription factor, modulates angiotensin II (AII) or thromboxane A(2) (TxA(2)) response in the vasculature via transcriptional regulation of their gene or receptor expression. Increased AII or TxA(2) vasoconstriction and deteriorating renal function observed in glycerol-induced acute renal failure (ARF) may be attributed to a down-regulated PPAR-gamma expression/activity probably via an increased free radical generation. In this study, we investigated the effect of PPAR-gamma induction in glycerol-induced ARF by examining renal vascular reactivity to AII and TxA(2) and by renal expression/activity of PPAR-gamma. Vascular responses to AII or U46619, a TxA(2) mimetic were determined in rat isolated perfused kidney following induction of ARF with glycerol (50%, v/v, i.m.). Extent of renal damage and function were assessed with or without pre-treatment with ciglitazone (9 nmol kg(-1) x 21 days), a PPAR-gamma inducer. In ARF, vasoconstriction was enhanced to AII (three-fold; p<0.05) and U46619 (82%; p<0.05). Ciglitazone reduced AII and U46619 vasoconstriction by 59+/-1% (p<0.05) and 56+/-1% (p<0.05), respectively. Ciglitazone reduced proteinuria (38+/-3%) which was two-fold higher in ARF. Similarly, ciglitazone enhanced Na(+) excretion by 1.5 times while reducing BUN by 49+/-6%. On the contrary, ciglitazone did not change plasma creatinine which was significantly higher in ARF rats. Ciglitazone reduced free radical generation by 30+/-3% while elevating nitrite excretion approximately 2-fold. PPAR-gamma expression and activity were significantly lower in ARF rats and ciglitazone enhanced PPAR-gamma protein expression and activity by 45+/-3% and 52+/-4%, respectively. Data from this study suggest that reduced PPAR-gamma expression and activity may be involved in the pathology of glycerol-induced ARF and induction of PPAR-gamma by ciglitazone confers protection through reduced AII and TxA(2) vasoconstriction and/or enhanced renal function via reducing free radical generation.
Effects of high-dose aprotinin on blood loss, platelet function, fibrinolysis, complement, and renal function after cardiopulmonary bypass.	The use of aprotinin to reduce blood loss after cardiopulmonary bypass is under debate. Concern has been raised about the renal effects of aprotinin. We administered a mean aprotinin dose of 4.2 x 10(6) kallikrein-inhibiting units to 13 patients with coronary disease undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for 74 +/- 5 minutes (mean +/- standard error of the mean); 13 comparable patients having cardiopulmonary bypass served as control subjects, and all were studied postoperatively for 24 hours. Aprotinin reduced postoperative blood loss by 50% (p = 0.0082). Two of the 13 patients who received aprotinin needed one red cell unit each versus a total of 18 units in eight of 13 control patients (p = 0.0096). Blood pressure, hemoglobin value and serum protein concentration were higher after operation in the aprotinin group (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.01). Platelet counts did not differ, but plasma thromboxane was lower in aprotinin recipients (p less than 0.001). In control patients fibrinogen degradation products (D dimer) doubled, and alpha 2-antiplasmin activity was halved during and after cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 0.01 to p less than 0.001), whereas aprotinin patients showed no changes. The complement breakdown products C4a, C3a, and C3dg as well as C9 neoantigen increased from prebypass baseline in both groups (p less than 0.001); the increment of C3a and C3dg was greater in the aprotinin than in the control patients (p less than 0.001). Serum electrolytes, osmolality, and creatinine remained normal in both groups of patients. Creatinine clearance was normal or above normal and virtually identical in both groups. Osmolar clearance and fractional sodium excretion were higher in the aprotinin group than in the control group shortly after cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.01); renal function was unremarkable the next morning. No adverse clinical effects attributable to aprotinin were seen. In summary, aprotinin offers advantages for cardiopulmonary bypass.
Partial inhibition of platelet thromboxane A2 synthesis by aspirin is associated with myonecrosis in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.	Heterogeneity in response to aspirin (ASA) treatment, or "aspirin resistance," could be of importance in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Decreased effects of ASA in platelets could be due to partial inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase-1 (COX-1) or to COX-1-independent mechanisms. We evaluated the effect of ASA treatment in patients with STEMI for (1) platelet thromboxane A(2) (TXA(2)) synthesis, (2) platelet recruitment elicited by TXA(2)-dependent and -independent mechanisms, and (3) a possible association of these aspects of platelet reactivity with serum markers of myonecrosis. We studied 62 ASA-treated patients within 48 hours of onset of the acute event and 69 ASA-free and 10 ASA-treated controls. TXA(2) synthesis and platelet recruitment (fluid-phase proaggregate activity of cell-free releasate) were assessed after collagen stimulation (1 micro g/ml) of whole blood. Partial inhibition of TXA(2) by ASA was found in 21 patients (34%). This was associated with significant increases in troponin T, creatine kinase-MB mass, creatine kinase, and recruiting activity versus 41 patients with blocked TXA(2) production. This was independent of fibrinolysis, and platelet COX-2 expression was not augmented. TXA(2) blockade was achieved after subsequent daily treatments or platelet incubation with ASA in vitro, suggesting lower sensitivity of COX-1 to ASA. In addition, 28 patients (45%) had an abnormally increased recruiting activity despite TXA(2) blockade, which was also associated with increased myonecrosis. In conclusion, ASA resistance, elicited by TXA(2)-dependent and TXA(2)-independent mechanisms, was prevalent in patients with STEMI. This study describes, for the first time, the association of partial platelet TXA(2) inhibition with myonecrosis.
Platelet function in acute experimental pancreatitis.	Acute pancreatitis (AP) is characterized by disturbances of pancreatic microcirculation. It remains unclear whether platelets contribute to these perfusion disturbances. The aim of our study was to investigate platelet activation and function in experimental AP. Acute pancreatitis was induced in rats: (1) control (n=18; Ringer's solution), (2) mild AP (n=18; cerulein), and (3) severe AP (n=18; glycodeoxycholic acid (GDOC)+cerulein). After 12 h, intravital microscopy was performed. Rhodamine-stained platelets were used to investigate velocity and endothelial adhesion in capillaries and venules. In addition, erythrocyte velocity and leukocyte adhesion were evaluated. Serum amylase, thromboxane A2, and histology were evaluated after 24 h in additional animals of each group. Results showed that 24 h after cerulein application, histology exhibited a mild AP, whereas GDOC induced severe necrotizing AP. Intravital microscopy showed significantly more platelet-endothelium interaction, reduced erythrocyte velocity, and increased leukocyte adherence in animals with AP compared to control animals. Thromboxane levels were significantly elevated in all AP animals and correlated with the extent of platelet activation and severity of AP. In conclusion, platelet activation plays an important role in acute, especially necrotizing, pancreatitis. Mainly temporary platelet-endothelium interaction is observed during mild AP, whereas severe AP is characterized by firm adhesion with consecutive coagulatory activation and perfusion failure.
The level of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in patients with chronic kidney failure undergoing hemodialysis]	Overall 14 patients with chronic renal failure treated by hemodialysis were examined. The content of the key metabolites of the arachidonic cascade thromboxane B2, 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha and 12-hydroxyeicosatetraene acid (12-HETE) in blood plasma was reduced in the patients as compared to donors. By the end of hemodialysis, part of the patients showed a tendency towards its normalization, however, no complete recovery was practically recorded. Derangement of the formation of thromboxane A2, prostacyclin and 12-HETE in uremia is likely to be related to reverse inhibition of the function of platelet cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase by plasma inhibitor. The recovery of the function can be attained after adequate hemodialysis.
Effect of dietary fish oil on plasma thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha levels in septic rats.	Increased mortality from sepsis is associated with high levels of thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1 alpha). Linoleic acid, an n-6 essential fatty acid, is the usual precursor of TXB2 and PGF1 alpha, while fish oil is rich in n-3 essential fatty acid, the precursor of less active moieties. Rats were fed chow, an essential fatty acid-deficient diet, or an essential fatty acid-deficient diet supplemented with linoleic acid or fish oil for 2 weeks. The animals then underwent a sham operation or cecal ligation and puncture to induce sepsis. Six hours later, blood was obtained for analysis. The chow and linoleic acid diets produced significant (twofold to fivefold) increases in levels of both TXB2 and PGF1 alpha after sepsis. The essential fatty acid-deficient diet and fish oil diet protected against increases in levels of TXB2 or PGF1 alpha during sepsis. Dietary restriction of linoleic acid or fish oil supplementation may play an important role in altering the inflammatory mediator response to sepsis.
Immunological assay of substances of blood and vascular bed origin, and their future]	Recently in the clinical laboratories, many highly sensitive immunological measurements are performed using such techniques as radioimmunoassay, enzyme immunoassay, fluoroimmunoassay, and chemiluminescence immunoassay. However, the metabolic clearance rate of a very small amount of substance in the circulatory blood may participate intimately in its inactivation and/or trapping in a single passage through a certain organ. The difficulty of immunological assays for very small amounts of biologically active substances in blood and the possibility of developing an easier assay method are discussed.
24-hour time-dependent aspirin efficacy in patients with stable coronary artery disease.	Aspirin-induced cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 acetylation is irreversible and it is assumed that the platelet thromboxane-A2 aggregation pathway is inhibited for at least 24 hours (h) after aspirin ingestion. However, time course of biological efficacy of daily low-dose aspirin has rarely been assessed in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We aimed to assess the 24-h biological efficacy of daily low-dose aspirin in CAD patients. The peak and trough (2 h-24 h) effect of a chronic treatment with once daily dose aspirin were studied in 150 consecutive stable CAD patients. The main outcome measure was light transmission aggregometry (LTA) triggered with 0.5 mg/ml arachidonic acid (AA). In the last 47 consecutive patients, additional tests were conducted at 6, 12, 16, 20 h after last aspirin administration. 4.7% of the patients had significant aggregation (>20% maximal intensity LTA-AA) 2 h after aspirin ingestion and 24.7% at 24 h (p<0.0001). The more precise assessments in the last 47 patients showed that significant platelet aggregation progressively reappeared with time after aspirin intake (2 h--4% of patients, 6 h-- 4%, 12 h--11%, 16 h--16%, 20 h--19% and 24 h--28%). Concordant results were observed using production of thromboxane-B2 and other techniques evaluating AA-induced platelet aggregation/activation. No significant differences were found between lower (75-100 mg/day) and higher (>100 mg/day) dose aspirin. Such aspirin «resistance» at 24 h after ingestion was related to biological inflammatory markers, current smoking and diabetes. In conclusion, once daily aspirin does not provide stable 24-h antiplatelet protection in a significant proportion of CAD patients. Any biological assessment of aspirin efficacy should take time since last aspirin intake into consideration.
Anoxia-reoxygenation enhances platelet thromboxane A2 production via reactive oxygen species-generated NOX2: effect in patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention.	Platelets undergoing anoxia-reoxygenation (AR) simultaneously increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) and thromboxane (Tx) B(2). Our aim was to assess whether there is an interplay between activation of NOX2, the catalytic subunit of NADPH oxidase, and platelet TxB(2) in vitro and in vivo.
The proinflammatory mediator's production from ischemic brain during carotid endarterectomy.	The aim of the study was to determine the quantity of produced mediators of inflammation (cytokines and eicosanoids), during carotid endarterectomy (CEA), which are factors of ischemic damage of the brain.
Thromboxane A(2) generation, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, in patients with and without atherothrombotic myocardial infarction.	Aspirin's therapeutic action is via inhibition of platelet cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1) thromboxane A2 (TxA2) production. The aim of this study was to evaluate TxA2 production, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, in coronary atherosclerotic heart disease patients with and without atherothrombotic myocardial infarction (MI).
The significance of natriuretic peptide in treatment of pulmonary hypertension after mitral valve replacement.	To compare the therapeutic efficacy of recombinant human brain natriuretic peptide and prostaglandin E1 in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension after mitral valve replacement.
The role of neural and vasoactive mediators in the regulation of the pulmonary circulation during cardiopulmonary preservation.	The autoperfused working heart-lung preparation has been used for extended cardiopulmonary preservation for transplantation. However, acute lung injury and failure of the preparation can result from pulmonary hypertension, which previous investigators have linked to denervation. We studied the neural and vasoactive mediators of pulmonary vasoconstriction during normothermic autoperfusion of the heart and lungs from 13 calves. Pulmonary vascular resistance was quantitated by multipoint pulmonary artery pressure/flow plots generated by incremental reduction in venous return at three times: A, after sternotomy but before autoperfusion (control); B, during in situ autoperfusion (innervated heart-lung preparation); and C, after explanation (denervated heart-lung preparation). During hemodynamic measurements, left atrial blood samples were obtained for measurement of thromboxane B2, 6-keto-prostaglandin-F1 alpha, and complement activation products C3a and C5a. Results show that pulmonary hypertension in the autoperfused working heart-lung preparation begins during autoperfusion before denervation and may be related to complement activation and to increased levels of circulating thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (both the absolute levels and the ratio of thromboxane B2 to 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha). After denervation, both prostaglandin intermediates were markedly increased, but their ratio was not significantly affected. These data suggest that there is an initial stage of pulmonary vasoconstriction at the onset of autoperfusion that is accompanied by increased circulating levels of vasoactive mediators and that denervation further contributes to this response.
Reduction in myocardial neutrophil accumulation and infarct size following administration of thromboxane inhibitor U-63,557A.	We examined the effects of a new selective thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthetase inhibitor, U-63,557A, on myocardial infarct size 48 hours following left coronary ligation in rats. With a single 8 mg/kg dose of U-63,557A (furegrelate) administered prior to coronary ligation, platelet aggregation and serum TXA2 formation declined significantly (p less than 0.02) for up to 48 hours. Myocardial infarct size, as measured by planimetry of serial left ventricular sections, was decreased from 44 +/- 3% (saline-treated control rats) to 34 +/- 4% (p less than 0.05). Left ventricular creatine kinase (CK) following coronary ligation was also preserved in U-63,557A vs saline-treated control animals (p less than 0.05). These beneficial effects of U-63,557A were not accompanied by reduction in the indices of myocardial oxygen demand (heart rate and arterial pressure). Furthermore, neutrophil accumulation in the infarcted myocardium was significantly decreased by U-63,557A (26 +/- 6 vs 96 +/- 3/high-power field [p less than 0.01]). These data suggest that administration of a single dose of selective TXA2 synthetase inhibitor prior to coronary ligation modulates platelet function for up to 48 hours and reduces the extent of myocardial injury, which may, in part, relate to decrease in neutrophil accumulation.
Prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and platelet-activating factor in shock.	Three major lines of evidence support a role of eicosanoids and PAF in shock. Formation of each of the cyclooxygenase metabolites of arachidonate is enhanced at some point during the shock; these metabolites include PGE2, PGF2 alpha, PGI2, and TXA2. Enhanced formation of 5-HETE and the cysteinyl-LTs provides evidence for activation of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonate metabolism, and preliminary biochemical evidence suggests that formation of PAF in anaphylactic and endotoxic shock is also enhanced. Second, TXA2, cysteinyl-leukotrienes, and, to an even greater extent, PAF are able to produce shock and death in intact animals. Third, pharmacological studies show that selective antagonists or synthesis inhibitors modify the course of the shock. While any of these lines of evidence may not by itself provide proof for a cause-effect relationship, the data taken together strongly suggest that vasoactive lipids might be involved in fundamental processes in the pathophysiology of shock. However, the role of vasoactive lipids might vary in different shock paradigms, change at various time points during the evolution of the shock, and depend on the species studied. Moreover, while the majority of the reports tend to focus on a specific substance, the metabolism of all of the eicosanoids mentioned, as well as PAF and probably other arachidonate metabolites (e.g. 15-lipoxygenase products such as lipoxins), changes during shock states. This fact probably causes most of the discrepancies in studies using specific antagonists or synthesis inhibitors to modify the state of shock. Thus, while blockade of one mediator might provide some protection, it might not be sufficient to halt or reverse the main course of the pathophysiological process. For example, the increase in vascular permeability, a fundamental phenomenon in trauma, anaphylaxis, or endotoxemia, might be mediated by PAF, LTs, PGs, peptides (e.g. kinins, substance P, CGRP) and amines (e.g. histamine in some species). Attempting to reverse such a complex phenomenon by blocking one specific factor might not be productive unless the specific substance played a key role in generation of the other factors. It seems, however, that while interactions between PGs, LTs, and PAF do occur (31, 32, 70), none of the shock states are crucially dependent on one class of the vasoactive lipids. Therefore, the therapeutic strategy should be based on multiple sites of action, either by drug combinations or multiple actions of a specific drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Signal transduction in collagen-stimulated rat platelets is composed of three stages.	A stable thromboxane A2 (TXA2) mimetic, U46619, induced a shape change of rat platelets, but did not induce phosphoinositide breakdown, aggregation or secretion. However, when U46619 was added to platelets which had been previously stimulated with collagen in the presence of indomethacin, all biological responses were induced about 1 min after the occurrence of shape change. Furthermore, two phases of phosphorylation of myosin light chain (MLC) were observed under the same conditions, one coinciding with shape change and the other with aggregation. Similar two-phase Ca2+ mobilization has been observed using aequorin (Nakano, T., Terawaki, A., & Arita, H. (1986) J. Biochem. 99, 1285-1288). From these results, collagen-induced signal transduction is considered to be composed of three stages. The first stage is the initial TXA2 generation. The second stage involves inositol trisphosphate-independent first-phase Ca2+ mobilization and the first-phase MLC phosphorylation by the action of TXA2 alone, leading to the shape change of platelets. The third stage is initiated by an abrupt phosphoinositide breakdown via the synergistic action of TXA2 and occupation of the collagen receptor, and the resulting inositol trisphosphate may induce the second-phase Ca2+ mobilization to produce the second-phase MLC phosphorylation together with aggregation and secretion.
Effect of SC 38249, a novel substituted imidazole, on platelet aggregation in vitro and in vivo.	SC 38249 [RS)-1-(2,3-bis-[(4-methoxyphenyl)methoxy]propyl)-1H-imidazole) caused dose-related inhibition of collagen-induced thromboxane A2 formation in human platelet rich plasma (IC50: 9.9 +/- 1.0 microM) accompanied by a dose-dependent increase in plasma PGE2. Broad inhibitory activity was evident against human platelet aggregatory and secretory responses in vitro. IC50 values of 11.9 +/- 1.9 microM (0.64 mM arachidonic acid), 18.3 +/- 3.8 microM (0.5 microgram ml-1 collagen) and 37.6 +/- 6.1 microM (25 nM Paf-acether) were obtained against maximum increase in PRP light transmission achieved by each agonist. Although less potent, SC 38249 retained significant inhibitory activity against PRP responses induced by a higher (3.0 micrograms ml-1) concentration of collagen (IC50: 272.5 +/- 24.6 microM), and against Paf-acether-induced responses in PRP pre-treated with 10 microM indomethacin (I.C.50: 192.0 +/- 16.1 microM). Experimental animal studies confirmed the in vitro anti-aggregatory efficacy of SC 38249, since significant inhibitory activity was observed against Paf-acether and ADP-induced responses in dog PRP ex vivo, anti-Forssman antibody-induced thrombocytopenia in anaesthetized guinea pigs, and collagen-induced intravascular aggregation in anaesthetized rabbits. Thus, SC 38249 is a novel thromboxane synthase inhibitor which possesses interesting anti-aggregatory properties which cannot wholly be attributed to prevention of platelet thromboxane A2 formation.
Assessment of prostacyclin and thromboxane A2 release during reperfusion after global ischemia induced by crystalloid cardioplegia--comparison between warm and cold ischemia.	The metabolites of prostacyclin (PGI2) and thromboxane A2 (TxA2), 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and thromboxane B2 (TxB2), were investigated during reperfusion (RP) following warm (37 degrees C, 60 min, n = 9) or cold (15 degrees C, 120 min, n = 11) ischemia induced by cold (4 degrees C) or normothermic (30 degrees C) K+ cardioplegia (CP) in isolated canine hearts subjected to global ischemia and RP. 6-Keto-PGF1 alpha flux was significantly higher (p less than 0.025) in the warm group at 1, 5, and 10 min of RP (4,202 +/- 1,412, 2,475 +/- 1,875, and 1,255 +/- 633 pg/g.min, mean +/- SD) compared to those in the cold group (1,504 +/- 1,245, 434 +/- 641, and 370 +/- 329 pg/g.min). TxB2 flux was small in amount compared to 6-keto-PGF1 alpha in both groups. Regarding the coronary hemodynamics, the cold group alone showed statistically significant relationships of coronary sinus blood flow to TxB2 level and TxB2/6-keto-PGF1 alpha ratio in coronary sinus blood. Also, coronary vascular resistance showed linear relations to these two parameters of the metabolites. In a supplementary experiment only with cold ischemia for 180 min, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha was released at each coronary flush-out by CP and the incremental amount showed a gradual increase during ischemia. These results indicated that significant production and release of PGI2 occurred during ischemia and RP following CP arrest and these related to the degree of myocardial damage while the response of TxA2 seemed less significant. The role of PGI2 release during RP following cardioplegic arrest was discussed.
Intestinal prostacyclin and thromboxane production in irreversible hemorrhagic shock.	Arterial and intestinal venous blood were sampled every hour for measurement of thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, stable metabolites of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin, respectively, in dogs subjected to hemorrhagic hypotension at 32.8 +/- 1.4 mm Hg for 3 h, followed by reinfusion of the remaining shed blood. Control dogs were treated alike without hypotension. Arterial and intestinal venous TXB2 significantly increased during hypotensive and post-transfusion periods, the venous concentration being significantly higher than the corresponding arterial. The arterial and venous 6-keto-PGF1 alpha increased during hypotension but decreased during post-transfusion periods. Furthermore, arterial and venous TXB2 to 6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentration ratio increased. Intestinal TXB2 release (blood flow X arteriovenous concentration difference) increased progressively, whereas 6-keto-PGF1 alpha release decreased. No significant changes occurred in the control dogs. This study shows an imbalance in intestinal production and release of TXA2 and PGI2, in favor of TXA2 during severe hemorrhagic hypotension and after blood transfusion. The imbalance may contribute to the development of irreversible hemorrhagic shock and reperfusion injury.
Adrenaline-induced hyperaggregability of platelets and enhanced thromboxane release in anorexia nervosa.	Platelet aggregation and thromboxane A2 release in response to adrenaline and the relationship of this response to body weight was investigated in female patients with anorexia nervosa. Platelets obtained from patients with body weights below 75% of the expected average weight (Group I) showed significantly greater aggregation and TXA2 release in response to adrenaline when compared with controls matched for sex and age. Patients with body weights 75-95% of the expected average weight (Group II) did not show enhancement of platelet aggregation or TXA2 release. In Group I patients, platelet hyperaggregability and enhanced TXA2 release induced by adrenaline tended to normalise following inpatient treatment and weight gain: with 0.5 mumol/l adrenaline, the pre-weight gain median aggregation was 65%, whereas the post-weight gain value was 37% - P less than 0.01. Markedly underweight patients also had hyperaggregability following stimulation with ADP and collagen. This hyperaggregability also tended to normalise after weight gain but these changes were not statistically significant. Platelet hyperaggregability (especially in response to adrenaline) in anorexia nervosa is therefore secondary to weight loss and reverts to normal with normalisation of weight. These changes may reflect the previously documented increase in platelet alpha-adrenoceptors in thin patients with anorexia nervosa and their normalisation following weight gain. However, the hyperaggregability in response to agonists other than adrenaline suggests that an additional post-receptor mechanism may be involved.
Stimulation of aggregation and thromboxane A2 formation of human platelets by hypoxia.	The influence of hypoxia on the spontaneous platelet aggregation (SPA) and thromboxane formation was studied. The analysis of aggregation curve was carried out according to Breddin. The hypoxia enhanced the aggregability from Q2norm = 2.46 +/- 0.40 (normoxia) to Q2hyp = 4.39 +/- 0.39 (hypoxia), n = 52, p less than 0.001. 10 samples of those showed no SPA under equilibration with air but the hypoxic stimulus provoked SPA (Q2norm = 0, Q2hyp = 1.19 +/- 60, n = 10, p less than 0.001). When the results were arranged according to the degree of the stimulation of SPA, two groups could be separated with low and high response to hypoxia. The hypoxia caused also an augmentation of the TXB2 level in comparison to normoxia. The stronger enhancement of the TXB2 formation during the incubation under hypoxic conditions was independent of the fact whether SPA took place or not. The present study suggests that hypoxic conditions alone may be a reason for a stimulated TXA2 formation of the platelets and that the enhanced TXA2 formation caused by hypoxia is possibly inducing or reinforcing the SPA.
Effect of alternate-day regular and enteric-coated aspirin on platelet aggregation, bleeding time, and thromboxane A2 levels in bleeding-time blood.	The effectiveness of low-dose aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular mortality is being assessed among the nearly 22,000 United States physicians currently participating in the Physicians' Health Study. Because of occasional reports of gastric irritation among study participants, two enteric-coated aspirin preparations were tested as possible alternatives to regular compressed aspirin for platelet inhibition. Thirty-three volunteers were assigned randomly to one of four treatment groups: regular aspirin (325 mg), placebo, and two enteric-coated aspirin preparations (325 mg). Pills were administered every other day, duplicating the regimen used in the Physicians' Health Study. Bleeding times, platelet aggregation, and thromboxane A2 levels produced by aggregating platelets in vitro, as well as in collected bleeding-time blood, were determined. Measurements were taken before and after a single dose as well as after seven alternate-day doses. Regular and enteric-coated aspirin preparations were equally efficacious in prolonging the bleeding time, inhibiting platelet aggregation, and suppressing thromboxane A2 production. There was virtually complete suppression of thromboxane A2 production (over 99 percent), by platelets in vitro and in collected bleeding-time blood. The levels were still profoundly reduced (89 percent) 48 hours after the last dose. Enteric-coated aspirin may provide an alternative to regular aspirin in a low-dose regimen designed to inhibit platelet activity.
Effect of short-term cyclosporine administration in rats on renin-angiotensin and thromboxane A2: possible relevance to the reduction in glomerular filtration rate.	A short-term treatment with Cyclosporine A (CyA) induces a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), promptly reversible after withdrawal of the drug. Several lines of evidence are now available as to indicate that this phenomenon is dependent on a hemodynamic perturbation resulting in a renal vasoconstriction. With the present work we have examined the relationship between the reduction in GFR which follows a short-term administration of CyA in rats and the biochemical changes in renin-angiotensin system and renal arachidonic acid metabolism. Our results show that CyA administration (25 mg/kg/day) for 45 days stimulates renin-angiotensin system with an increase in plasma renin activity. These changes are not accompanied by a parallel increase in the renal synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin as it occurs in other conditions of renin-angiotensin stimulation. At variance glomerular synthesis and urinary excretion of thromboxane A2 (TxA2) are increased progressively during CyA treatment. These changes in renal Tx precede the increase in serum creatinine and the decrease in GFR thus indicating that TxA2 might be an additional factor potentiating the effect of angiotensin II on glomerular hemodynamics. In conclusion the early reduction in GFR which follows daily administration of CyA in rats might be the result of a synergic action of angiotensin II and TxA2 on vascular tone and mesangial contraction which is not modulated by an increase in glomerular vasodilatory prostaglandins. If this explanation may be applied to early reduction in GFR observed in humans treated with CyA before tubular toxicity develops needs to be investigated further.
Regulation of microvascular prostacyclin and thromboxane with inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism.	The levels of the stable degradation products of prostacyclin (PGI2) and thromboxane A2 (TXA2): 6-oxo-prostaglandin E1 alpha (6-oxo-PGE1 alpha) and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) respectively were determined in the effluent of the rabbit epigastric skin flap after infusion of exogenous arachidonic acid. The blood to the flap passes through the microcirculation and thus the changes in eicosanoid biosynthesis in this part of the vasculature were recorded. The aim was to use inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism to increase the PGI2/TXA2 ratio. This may be potentially beneficial to ischaemic skin flaps by reducing platelet aggregation associated with damaged microvascular endothelium, overcoming vasospasm and increasing microvascular blood flow. Increased PGI2/TXA2 ratios (up to 5-fold) were best achieved using TXA2 synthetase inhibitors such as dazoxiben hydrochloride. These were significantly more potent than the phosphodiesterase inhibitor dipyridamole, and the lipoxygenase inhibitor Bay g6575. No increase in blood flow was achieved. The cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin did slow the blood flow at high concentrations (above 10(-5) M), and inhibited both PGI2 and TXA2 synthesis. Approximately 2-fold higher concentrations of dazoxiben hydrochloride and dipyridamole were required to produce the same TXA2 synthetase inhibition in the flap microvasculature in vivo compared with platelets in vitro.
Effects of low doses of aspirin, 10 mg and 30 mg daily, on bleeding time, thromboxane production and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha excretion in healthy subjects.	To compare the long term effects of two low doses of aspirin taken daily, we performed a placebo-controlled cross-over study in 19 normal subjects. Aspirin 10 mg daily for 3 weeks caused a significant inhibition by 61 +/- 12 percent of platelet thromboxane B2 generation but had no effect on the Simplate bleeding time. Aspirin 30 mg daily for 3 weeks reduced thromboxane B2 production by 94 +/- 5 percent and caused a significant prolongation of the bleeding time, 1.6 times the control value. No cumulative inhibitory effects were observed after the first week of treatment. Both doses did not effect the urinary excretion of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha.
Spontaneous platelet aggregation: observations on potential mechanisms.	We identified SPA in three young apparently healthy women. SPA was associated with release of TXA2 and was only partially inhibited by ADP-inhibitor apyrase and alpha 2-adrenoceptor blocker yohimbine. In vitro incubation of aspirin (90 micrograms/ml) or selective TXA2 synthetase inhibitor OKY-046 (0.1 uM) with platelet rich plasma (PRP) did not abolish SPA, although platelet generation of TXA2 was markedly inhibited. In contrast, oral administration of large amounts of aspirin in one subject or in vitro incubation of PRP with TXA2 -endoperoxide receptor blocker SQ 29,548 (20-100 nM) significantly inhibited SPA. These studies suggest that SPA is associated with TXA2 release. Since TXA2 -endoperoxide receptor blocker completely abolishes the secondary wave, agents like this may be of therapeutic value in individuals with SPA and evidence of tissue ischemia.
Effects of hypothyroidism and short-term aging on whole blood thromboxane and arterial prostacyclin synthesis.	Hypothyroidism results in decreased platelet aggregation and has unique effects on the development of atherosclerosis and angina pectoris. Because prostacyclin and thromboxane A2 profoundly influence platelet function and vascular tone and are thought to be important in the development of atherosclerosis and angina pectoris, we studied the effects of hypothyroidism in rats on the in vitro elaboration of prostacyclin passively by aortic tissue and of thromboxane A2 by thrombin-stimulated whole blood. Hypothyroidism induced by iodine 131 (given at age 7 weeks) persistently caused a mild decrease in platelet count (P less than 0.01) and 30% decrease in immunoreactive thromboxane B2 (the hydrolysis product of thromboxane A2) generation per platelet (P less than 0.01) compared with age-matched euthyroid rats. Between 20 and 23 weeks of age immunoreactive 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha (the hydrolysis product of prostacyclin) generation decreased by 30% in euthyroid rats. In hypothyroid rats less than 23 weeks of age, 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha production was the same as that of age-matched euthyroid rats. With further aging, 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha production did not decrease as it did in euthyroid rats. Hypothyroid rats more than 20 weeks old had, therefore, significantly greater 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha production than age-matched euthyroid rats (P less than 0.005). L-Thyroxine given daily for 28 days to 23-week-old hypothyroid rats caused a rapid increase in platelet count and a delayed normalization of the thromboxane synthetic abnormality. 6-Ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha production transiently increased in response to L-thyroxine, but decreased to the euthyroid level after 28 days of therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regional differences in postischemic recovery in the stunned canine myocardium.	To determine if differences exist in the degree of ischemic damage and in postischemic recovery when different coronary arteries are occluded and reperfused, 40 barbital-anesthetized dogs were subjected to brief 15-minute periods of coronary artery occlusion followed by 3 hours of reperfusion ("stunned" myocardium) of the left anterior descending (LAD) or the left circumflex (LCX) coronary arteries. Myocardial segment shortening (%SS) in the subendocardium of nonischemic and ischemic reperfused areas was measured by sonomicrometry, and regional myocardial blood flow was measured by radioactive microspheres. Transmural tissue biopsies were taken at the end of reperfusion for the measurement of adenine nucleotides and total tissue water content. Arterial and local coronary venous blood samples were collected during preocclusion, during occlusion, and at 30 and 180 minutes of reperfusion for determination of blood oxygen content and oxygen consumption in the ischemic area. During occlusion, subendocardial blood flow (LAD flow = 0.11 +/- 0.02; LCX flow = 0.15 +/- 0.04 ml/min/gm), myocardial oxygen consumption (LAD = 2.4 +/- 0.7; LCX = 2.7 +/- 0.7 ml/min/100 gm), and areas of the left ventricle at risk (LAD = 27.4 +/- 2.3%; LCX = 32.4 +/- 2.4) were similar in both groups, thus indicating equivalent degrees of ischemia. There were no differences between groups in hemodynamics throughout the experiment or in the loss of myocardial high-energy phosphates or increase in total tissue water in the ischemic reperfused area at 3 hours of reperfusion. There was a significantly greater loss (p less than 0.05) of systolic wall function during LAD versus LCX occlusion and a greater recovery of segment function from 5 minutes throughout 1 hour of reperfusion after LCX occlusion (p less than 0.05), with no difference in %SS at 2 and 3 hours following reperfusion. Thus, although similar changes occurred in blood flow, metabolite parameters, tissue edema, wall function, and overall hemodynamics when either the LAD or LCX perfusion territories were occluded and reperfused, the loss of systolic wall function and recovery of segment shortening were more variable after regional stunning of the LCX perfusion bed. These data suggest that evaluation of pharmacologic or surgical interventions to improve postischemic functional recovery may be more reliably performed when the LAD coronary artery is the vessel occluded.
Pulmonary hypertension and leukosequestration after lower torso ischemia.	Ischemia stimulates thromboxane (Tx) synthesis. This study tests the hypothesis that the cardiopulmonary dysfunction that may follow aortic declamping is related to Tx. Anesthetized dogs (N = 15) were subjected to 4 hours of infrarenal aortic cross-clamping. In untreated control animals (N = 7), plasma levels of TxB2 rose from 654 +/- 74 pg/mL to 1238 +/- 585 pg/mL at 5 min (p less than 0.05), and to 3174 +/- 912 pg/mL 3 hours after declamping (p less than 0.05). Mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP) rose 5 min after declamping from 13 +/- 2 mmHg to 21 +/- 2 mmHg (p less than 0.05). Cardiac Index (CI) declined during ischemia from 181 +/- 30 mL/kg.min to 128 +/- 16 mL/min.kg (p less than 0.05), and to 80 +/- 8 mL/min.kg after 4 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.05). Platelet counts declined but platelets labeled with In 111 did not accumulate in the lungs, whereas quantitative counts of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) in the lungs 4 hours after declamping yielded 213 +/- 33 PMN/25 high power fields (HPF) in dependent areas of the lung and 153 +/- 26 PMN/25 HPF in nondependent areas. The wet/dry weight ratio of the lungs was not elevated, although foci of proteinaceous exudate and PMNs in alveoli were noted. Another group of dogs (N = 8) were pretreated by random choice with the Tx synthase inhibitor OKY-046 2 mg/kg IV every 2 hours, which led to: lower TxB2 levels at baseline 95 +/- 35 pg/mL (p less than 0.05), 5 min after ischemia 140 +/- 93 pg/mL and after 3 hours of reperfusion 122 +/- 36 (p less than 0.05); lower MPAP, 16 +/- 2 mmHg (p less than 0.05); higher CI throughout (p less than 0.05); normal histology and reduced pulmonary PMN sequestration both in dependent 127 +/- 15 PMN/25 HPF and nondependent areas of the lungs 95 +/- 11 PMN/25 HPF (p less than 0.05). In animals undergoing sham ischemia (N = 3), levels of TxB2 and cardiopulmonary function remained unchanged from baseline. There were 150 PMN/25 HPF in dependent and 85 PMN/25 HPF in nondependent lung areas. The results indicate that ischemia-generated Tx mediates a rise in MPAP, a fall in CI, and PMN entrapment in the lungs.
Thromboxane mediation of cardiopulmonary effects of embolism.	Humoral factors released from platelets during pulmonary embolism may be the cause of several attendant cardiopulmonary abnormalities. This study examines the role of thromboxanes (Tx) after experimental embolism induced with 0.5 g/kg autologous clot in four groups of five dogs: (a) untreated embolized controls; (b) pretreatment with the Tx synthetase inhibitor, imidazole 25 mg/kg . h i.v., starting 30 min before embolization; (c) pretreatment with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin, 5 mg/kg, 12 h per os and 1 mg/kg, 1 h i.v. before the experiment; (d) treatment with prostacyclin (PGI(2)) 100 etag/kg . min i.v. for 1 h, 1 h after embolization. Within 30 min, embolization led to increases of 6-keto-PGF(1alpha), the stable hydrolysis product of PGI(2), from 0.11+/-0.08 etag/ml (mean+/-SD) to 0.33+/-0.10 etag/ml (P < 0.005) and TxB(2), the stable product of TxA(2), from 0.10+/-0.04 etag/ml to 0.38+/-0.06 etag/ml (P < 0.001). Increases were observed in total dead space (V(D)/V(T)) from 0.46+/-0.03 to 0.61+/-0.08 (P < 0.025, physiologic shunting (Q(S)/Q(T)) from 16+/-4% to 38+/-9% (P < 0.01), pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) from 2.27+/-0.59 mm Hg.min/liter to 9.21+/-1.90 mm Hg.min/liter (P < 0.005) and mean pulmonary arterial pressure from 14+/-6 mm Hg to 34+/-1 mm Hg (P < 0.001). Cardiac index (CI) fell from 139+/-11 ml/kg.min to 95+/-17 ml/kg.min in 4 h (P < 0.025). Imidazole pretreatment prevented a rise of TxB(2), but not 6-keto-PGF(1alpha); indomethacin blocked both. Both agents maintained V(D)/V(T) at base line and limited increases in Q(S)/Q(T) and PVR. CI was higher after imidazole pretreatment compared with controls (P < 0.025). Indomethacin led to intermediate levels of CI. PGI(2) lowered TxB(2) (P < 0.025), V(D)/V(T) (P < 0.025), Q(S)/Q(T) (P < 0.025) and PVR (P < 0.05) within 30 min. During PGI(2) infusion, CI was higher than controls. Concentrations of TxB(2) correlated with V(D)/V(T), r = 0.79 and Q(S)/Q(T), r = 0.69 (P < 0.001). Treatment of three dogs with the imidazole derivative ketoconazole, 10 mg/kg IV, 30 min after 0.75 g/kg autologous clot resulted in a lowering of physiologic dead space, but no other improvement of cardiopulmonary function. These results show that a number of cardiopulmonary abnormalities induced by pulmonary embolism are related directly or indirectly to platelet secretions and that V(D)/V(T) is closely allied to TxA(2) levels.
In vitro effect of unsaturated fatty acids on the balance between thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in the blood vascular system.	Unsaturated fatty acids (FAs) (oleic, linoleic, alpha -linolenic, and gamma -linolenic acids) were found to inhibit platelet thromboxane synthetase. This conclusion was based on the following experimental evidence. 1. Reduced formation of TxB2 and increased formation of prostaglandins F2 alpha, E2 and D2 as seen in autoradiography of TLC plate. 2. Inhibition of ADP- and collagen-induced aggregation of PRP samples in the presence of the unsaturated FAs. 3. Reduced formation of TxB2 determined by RIA in PRP samples pretreated with the unsaturated FAs followed by collagen-induced aggregation. 4. Reduced formation of MDA in the presence of the unsaturated FAs. 5. Increased formation of PGI2 (determined as 6-keto-PGF1 alpha), PGE2, PGF2 alpha and PGD2 (redirection effect) in the presence of the unsaturated FAs in a system consisting of washed human platelet preparation and a piece of rat aorta from labelled arachidonate. TxB2 was reduced. 6. Aggregation experiment confirming above.
Increased fibrinopeptide A formation and thromboxane A2 production in patients with ischemic heart disease: relationships to coronary pathoanatomy, risk factors, and clinical manifestations.	In 98 patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD), independent of their clinical status (previous myocardial infarction, spontaneous angina or effort angina), a hypercoagulable state (indicated by significant elevation of fibrinopeptide A plasma level) and an increased platelet biologic activity were observed. Moreover, plasma fibrinopeptide A concentration and platelet aggregation were remarkably higher in patients with frequently occurring spontaneous clinical manifestations (active disease) than in IHD patients with relatively quiescent symptoms. Abnormalities of blood clotting and platelet changes were not significantly altered by the presence of severity of coronary angiographic fixed obstruction in IHD. Multiple regression analysis indicated that hypercoagulability and increased platelet biologic activity were not a consequence of differences in risk factor patterns in IHD patients compared to control subjects.
The effects of Salvia miltiorrhizae Bge and Ligustrazine on thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in pregnancy induced hypertension]	The clinical efficiency and mechanism of traditional Chinese medicinal herb Salvia Miltiorrhizae Bge (SMB) and Ligustrazine (L) on pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) were studied in 30 patients. Before and after the administration of SMB and L, the following parameters: mean arterial pressure (MAP), proteinuria, levels of Thromboxane A2 (TXA2) and Prostacyclin (PGI2) were observed. TXA2 and PGI2 were measured by their stable hydration products Thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) by an established radioimmunoassay. The results of treatment were compared with the base line values and showed as follows: MAP and proteinuria decreased significantly (P < 0.05); no marked difference existed in TXB2; the level of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha increased significantly (P < 0.05); the rate of TXB2/6-keto-PGF1 alpha decreased significantly (P < 0.05). The results suggested that SMB and L can invigorate blood circulation by decreasing vasoconstriction.
The utero-placental circulation, eugenics and the prevention and treatment of high risk pregnancies.	Through systematic experimental and clinical studies, the physiological regulation of utero-placental circulation and the relation of the disturbance in this acirculation to pathogenic mechanisms of high risk pregnancies-Intrauterine Growth Retardation (IUGR) and Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) were explored. The pharmacological effects and mechanism of a Chinese herbal medicine-Qingxintong in improving, the utero-placental circulation and the therapeutic efficacy in treatment of IUGR and PIH, both accompanied by disturbance of utero-placental circulation, were investigated as well.
Plasma prostacyclin and thromboxane concentrations in 160 normotensive, hypotensive, and preeclamptic patients during pregnancy, delivery, and the post partum period.	Plasma concentrations of 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha, a stable metabolite of prostacyclin, and TxB2 were measured in 160 women during pregnancy (n = 106), delivery (n = 40), and in the postpartum period (n = 14). Fifty nine patients had normal blood pressure, 10 had mild and 9 severe preeclampsia while 38 patients were hypotensive. Normotensive patients were grouped according to their gestational age: 22-26 weeks (n = 22), 27-31 weeks (n = 22), and 32-38 weeks (n = 15). 20 patients were in early first stage of delivery (cervical dilatation < or = 5 cm), 20 patients in late first stage (cervical dilatation > or = 6 cm). The concentration (mean value +/- SEM) of the PGI2 metabolite tended to increase during pregnancy without reaching significance (218 +/- 11; 225 +/- 10; 250 +/- 15 pg/ml). At the same time, TxB2 showed a decrease, which was most pronounced at 27-31 weeks (65 +/- 15; 40 +/- 2; 48 +/- 4 pg/ml; p < 0.001). The ratio of PGI2/TxA2 increased in parallel (4.9 +/- 0.4; 6 +/- 0.4; 4 +/- 0.5). There was no difference in plasma concentrations of PGI2 (figure 4) and TxA2 in patients with normal blood pressure, mild preeclampsia and hypotension, whereas in severe preeclampsia, the plasma concentration of PGI2 was significantly lower (p < 0.001) and of TxA2 significantly higher (p < 0.001). The ratio of PGI2/TxA2 shifted significantly to vasoconstriction in patients with severe preeclampsia (p < 0.0001) and to vasodilatation in those with hypotension (p < 0.03).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Involvement of endothelin and prostanoids in coronary vasospasm]	The involvement of endothelin, an important endogenous vascular constrictor, and prostanoids in coronary vasospasm was evaluated in 14 patients with and 12 patients without coronary vasospasm who had normal coronary angiograms. Coronary vasospasm was defined as a total or subtotal occlusion or diffuse and intense constriction of the left coronary artery provoked by intracoronary acetylcholine administration and associated with electrocardiographic ischemic ST-segment shifts. Blood samples were taken from the left coronary ostium and the coronary sinus before and during coronary spasm. The blood concentrations of endothelin, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, and thromboxane B2 were measured. Patients with and without coronary vasospasm demonstrated no significant changes in endothelin and thromboxane B2 concentrations in the coronary sinus blood, or in the difference between left coronary ostium and coronary sinus blood. Patients with coronary vasospasm had 6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentrations in the coronary sinus before and during coronary vasospasm of 133.6 +/- 32.5 and 179.4 +/- 46.7 pg/ml, respectively (p < 0.05), and the differences between coronary sinus and coronary ostium concentrations were -25.7 +/- 29.5 and 41.6 +/- 22.6 pg/ml, respectively (p < 0.05). Patients without coronary vasospasm showed no significant changes in 6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentration. Endothelin and thromboxane A2 are not involved in coronary vasospasm, while prostacyclin concentration rises during coronary vasospasm provoked by acetylcholine.
Estrogen substitution: effects on lipid, eicosanoid and collagen metabolism in menopause]	Biochemical markers of bone metabolism are not well established as diagnostic tools. Recently, a new radioimmunoassay has been described, that specifically detects the carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP). We have used this method in our studies. Ten menopausal women, age 49-64, received 1.25 mg conjugated estrogens (Presomen) within three cycles of 20 days and 8 days pause. Before and under therapy following parameters have been estimated: cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, estradiol, FSH, prolactin, thromboxane B2- 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha, ICTP, and the carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP). Administration of Presomen resulted in significantly increased levels of HDL. Hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) also resulted in significantly decreased levels of cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides, FSH, prolactin, ICTP, and thromboxane B2. PICP and 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha were uneffected by HRT. Our studies confirm the favorable effects of HRT on lipoprotein metabolism. In addition to these findings we noted a beneficial effect on the arachidonic acid metabolism and on the bone resorption, this requires confirmation in clinical trials.
Effect of intraventricular hemorrhage in newborns on levels of certain prostanoids in blood plasma]	Recent studies suggest that eicosanoids might be involved in pathogenesis of vascular problems in preterm infants. The aim of the study was determine the concentrations most potent occurring vasoactive substances: Thromboxane A2 (TxA2) promoting vasoconstriction and prostacyclin (PGI2) causing vasodilation of vascular smooth muscles. We assessed the concentrations of stable metabolites TxA2-TxB2 and PGI2-6 keto PGF1 alpha in blood plasma by RIA method. It was found that neonates with RDS + IVH had significantly elevated TxB2 and 6 keto PGF1 alpha compared to healthy newborns, with transient tachypnoea and with RDS. High concentrations of thromboxane and prostacyclin metabolites in newborns plasma with IVH suggest a causative role of eicosanoids in pathogenesis of haemorrhage. The cells of impaired blood vessels may be probable source of these eicosanoids.
Blood levels of 6-keto-prostaglandin F1alpha, thromboxane and prostaglandin F2alpha in patients with bronchial asthma]	The study revealed the relation of bronchial asthma (bacterial variant) clinical pattern to plasma levels of PGF2 alpha, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and TxB2. In remission of the disease the above indices are lower. Severe asthma remission is characterized by higher levels of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and TxB2 than moderate asthma one, demonstrates a tendency to growing PGF2 alpha levels. A rise in PGF2 alpha and TxB2 in manifest asthma points to their participation in bronchospasm formation suggesting an active role of these bronchoconstrictors in asthma pathogenesis. Higher levels of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha are of a compensary nature in the pathogenesis of PGF2 alpha and TxB2 bronchoconstrictory action, and of damaging nature contributing to the formation of bronchial mucosa edema and bronchial gland hypersecretion.
The effect of x-ray contrast media on the amount of thromboxane and prostacyclin in the blood of man and rats in vivo and in vitro]	The in vivo and in vitro effects of radioopaque agents such as bilignost, iodamide, and triombrast on blood thromboxane B2 (TxB2) and prostacyclin levels were studied in man and rats. These radioopaque agents were demonstrated to increase prostacyclin levels and to decrease TxB2 in the plasma by 40%, as evidenced by urography when given in vivo (1-2 g/kg) and in vitro (2.5.10(-2) M and 2.5.10(-3) M).
Blood pressure-lowering effect of fish oil is independent of thromboxane A2 level in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Whether the alterations in the synthesis of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) is the direct mechanism underlying the blood pressure-lowering effect of fish oil was investigated in this study. Six groups of 11 male spontaneously hypertensive rats were fed semipurified diets containing corn or fish oils and graded levels (50, 5000 or 15,000 ppm) of dietary vitamin E for 8 weeks. Plasma TXA2, assayed by RIA, was significantly greater in the corn oil group than in the fish oil group (P < 0.05). Compared to 50 ppm dietary vitamin E, 5000 and 15 000 ppm dietary vitamin E, respectively, significantly decreased plasma TXA2 (P < 0.05). Systolic, mean or diastolic blood pressure, evaluated by the tail cuff method, were significantly higher in the corn oil group than in the fish oil group (P < 0.05). However, vitamin E had no effect on blood pressure. No relationship between TXA2 and blood pressure was found. Experimental results indicated that the alterations in the synthesis of TXA2 were not the direct antihypertensive effect of fish oil.
