Balancing the benefits of primary angioplasty against the benefits of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: the importance of timing.	A meta-analysis found that primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was more effective than thrombolytic therapy in reducing mortality from acute myocardial infarction. However, fewer than 20% of U.S. hospitals have facilities to perform PTCA and many clinicians must choose between immediate thrombolytic therapy and delayed PTCA.
Hormone therapy and in-hospital survival after myocardial infarction in postmenopausal women.	Although postmenopausal hormone therapy (HRT) commonly is used in hope of preventing coronary heart disease, the effect of HRT on case fatality of myocardial infarction has never been studied. We evaluated HRT as a predictor of survival after MI in postmenopausal women.
Relationship between the door-to-TIMI-3 flow time and the infarct size in patients suffering from acute myocardial infarction: analysis based on the fibrinolysis and subsequent transluminal (FAST-3) trial.	The purpose of this study was to use the findings of a fibrinolysis and subsequent transluminal trial (FAST-3) to evaluate the association between the target time for obtaining a thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI)-3 flow after arrival at the emergency room with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and the degree of myocardial salvage.
Insurance status and the treatment of myocardial infarction at academic centers.	Numerous studies have documented treatment disparities in patients with acute coronary syndromes based on race and gender. Other causes for treatment disparities may exist.
Therapeutic yield and outcomes of a community teaching hospital code stroke protocol.	To describe the experience of a community teaching hospital emergency department (ED) Code Stroke Protocol (CSP) for identifying acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients and treating them with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and to compare outcome measures with those achieved in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) trial.
A registry of acute myocardial infarction in Kuwait: Patient characteristics and practice patterns.	Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in Kuwait, yet data about patient characteristics and practice patterns are lacking.
Gender differences in the treatment and outcome of acute myocardial infarction. Results from the Myocardial Infarction Triage and Intervention Registry.	The objective of this study was to compare treatment and outcome of acute myocardial infarction in women and men.
Implementation of acute myocardial infarction guidelines in community hospitals.	To obtain information regarding the current use of guidelines and protocols and quality assessment practices for the management of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in Minnesota hospitals without cardiac catheterization laboratories.
Estimating the number of stroke patients eligible for thrombolytic treatment if delay could be avoided.	Although no data are available on the potential number of patients treatable with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, it is said that up to 20% of all stroke patients should receive this treatment. The actual percentage treated is much lower, mainly due to delays between onset and admission to hospital. The aim of this study was to estimate the potential number of patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy if such delays could be avoided.
Early invasive versus conservative treatment in patients with failed fibrinolysis--no late survival benefit: the final analysis of the Middlesbrough Early Revascularisation to Limit Infarction (MERLIN) randomized trial.	Early (30 days) and midterm (6 months) clinical outcomes in trials comparing rescue angioplasty (rescue percutaneous coronary intervention [rPCI]) with conservative treatment of failed fibrinolysis complicating ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction have shown variable results. Whether early rPCI confers late (up to 3 years) clinical benefits is not known.
Comparative analysis of long-term mortality after thrombolytic therapy.	In patients with acute myocardial infarction, thrombolytic therapy has a demonstrable and favorable impact on a range of clinical indicators, including left ventricular function, infarct size, coronary arterial patency, and symptom relief. However, these indicators have not provided a reliable basis for the comparison of thrombolytic regimens; mortality provides the "gold standard." One-year mortality obviates the differences in the timing of short-term comparisons (in-hospital, 30-day, or 5-week). In addition, late effects of differences in patency, including the impact of reocclusion, infarct healing, and remodeling, will be evident by 1 year. Meta-analysis of data from previous major mortality studies shows that differences in design and the overlap of confidence intervals of mortality studies suggest that no thrombolytic agent is superior in terms of short-term mortality. Long-term survival may provide a more meaningful basis for comparison of efficacy of the thrombolytic regimens. Long-term mortality has been evaluated for anistreplase in acute myocardial infarction in a composite analysis, similar to a meta-analysis. From the pooled life table analysis of all anistreplase studies, the odds reduction in mortality at 1 year was approximately 48%.
Asessement of myocardial infarction therapy development in diabetics.	A considerable development of myocardial infarction treatment including invasive strategy and supportive pharmacotherapy ought to result in prognostic benefits for the high risk diabetic population.
Helicopter transport of stroke patients and its influence on thrombolysis rates: data from the Austrian Stroke Unit Registry.	Acute stroke management requires minimization of prehospital time. This study addresses the value of helicopter transport compared with other means of transportation to a stroke unit and compares their rates of thrombolysis on a nationwide basis.
Fate of patients with prehospital resuscitation for ST-elevation myocardial infarction and a high rate of early reperfusion therapy (results from the PREMIR [Prehospital Myocardial Infarction Registry]).	Patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) needing prehospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) have a very high adverse-event rate. However, little is known about the fate of these patients and predictors of mortality in the era of early reperfusion therapy. From March 2003 through December 2004, 2,317 patients with prehospital diagnosed STEMI were enrolled in the Prehospital Myocardial Infarction Registry. One hundred ninety patients (8.2%) underwent prehospital CPR and were included in our analysis. Overall 90% of patients were treated with early reperfusion therapy, 56.3% received prehospital thrombolysis and 1/2 of these patients received early percutaneous coronary intervention after thrombolysis, 28.4% of patients were treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention, and 5.3% received in-hospital thrombolysis. Total mortality was 40.0%. The highest mortality was seen in patients with asystole (63%) or pulseless electric activity (64%). Independent predictors of mortality were need for endotracheal intubation and older age, whereas ventricular fibrillation as initial heart rhythm was associated with survival. In conclusion, in this large registry with prehospital diagnosed STEMI, incidence of prehospital CPR was about 8%. Even with a very high rate of early reperfusion therapy, in-hospital mortality was high. Especially in elderly patients with asystole as initial heart rhythm and with need for endotracheal intubation, prognosis is poor despite aggressive reperfusion therapy.
Assessment of the quality of medical assistance for patients with acute ST elevation coronary syndrome for 2009-2010 in regions of the Russian Federation participating in the "vascular program" (by the data of the Russian ACS Register)]	To assess quality of medical assistance for patients with acute ST elevation coronary syndrome (aSTeCS) for the period from 2009 to 2010 in 23 administrative regions of the Russian Federation (RF) realizing the "vascular program".
Trends in case fatality rate in pulmonary embolism according to stability and treatment.	To determine categories of patients with pulmonary embolism in whom therapy has been reducing or failing to reduce case fatality rate.
Ultrasound accelerates urokinase-induced thrombolysis and reperfusion.	We have shown that ultrasound accelerates TPA-induced thrombolysis in vitro as assessed by release of labeled fibrinogen from radioactive labeled clots. Others have shown that ultrasound shortens the time to recanalization of TPA treated thrombi in animal models. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that ultrasound enhances thrombolysis and reperfusion by using urokinase in an in vitro flow system. An in vitro flow system of a branching tubing circuit was developed. Flow in one branch was obstructed by a thrombus. Five control clots were exposed to continuous wave ultrasound at a frequency of 1 MHz and intensity of 2.5 W/cm2 only without any thrombolytic agent (group 1). Twenty clots were exposed to a bolus of 80,000 U of urokinase and randomized to either ultrasound exposure (group 2) or to urokinase only without ultrasound (group 3). Flow distal to the clot and the rate of release of radiolabeled fibrin were used as indexes of reperfusion and thrombolysis, respectively. Exposure to ultrasound significantly accelerated urokinase-mediated reperfusion, with 40.6% +/- 11.8% of maximal flow in group 2 versus 1.3% +/- 0.7% in group 3, p < 0.0015 after 25 min. The maximal difference in flow between groups 2 and 3 was achieved at 40 minutes (67.4% +/- 11.1% vs 13.1% +/- 5.6%, p < 0.0009). Thrombolysis was significantly higher after 25 minutes of ultrasound exposure (24.1% +/- 4.6% in the ultrasound-treated group vs 9.7% +/- 3.5% in group 3, p < 0.013). The maximal difference in thrombolysis between groups 2 and 3 was 60 minutes. (52.5% +/- 5.1% vs 18.7% +/- 6.2%, p < 0.00015).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Early assessment of reperfusion therapy using cardiac troponin T.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the utility of cardiac troponin T for early assessment of reperfusion therapy.
Evaluation of the delays in treatment of myocardial infarction. Results of a survey in Alsace]	In order to assess the conditions of access to emergency care of acute myocardial infarction in Alsace, the authors carried out a survey in all hospitals and medical clinics in the region. All subjects admitted for acute myocardial infarction in the region between 3rd December 1995 and 3rd April 1996 were included. The study population comprised 405 persons. The onset of symptoms usually occurred at the patient's home (85% of cases). The first call was made to the general practitioner in 65% of cases. The emergency ambulance transported 40% of patients. The median time to hospital admission was 5 h 15 (average 21 h); the delay was greater in patients over 65 years of age (6 h 42 versus 3 h 51, p < 0.01). This mainly resulted from a delay in calling the doctor by the patients. Thirty nine per cent of patients underwent a myocardial revascularisation procedure (thrombolysis: 27%, direct coronary angioplasty: 12%). Therefore, ten years after a similar study, this survey shows that the delay to hospital admission has not improved and is still too long for effective emergency therapy to be given. In a region where ischaemic heart disease accounts for 10% of all deaths, a multidisciplinary approach is required to elaborate a regional policy for optimising the management of acute myocardial infarction.
