Acute transformation in nonleukemic chronic myeloproliferative disorders: actuarial probability and main characteristics in a series of 218 patients.	In a series of 218 subjects diagnosed as having nonleukemic chronic myeloproliferative disorders in a single institution within a 18-year period, 13 instances of acute transformation were registered. They corresponded to 8 out of 70 patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis (IM), 4 out of 91 with polycythemia vera (PV), and 1 out of 57 with essential thrombocythemia (ET). The actuarial probability of developing such a complication at 100 months from diagnosis reached 20.6% in IM, 8.7% in PV, and 4% in ET. Only 1 IM patient whose condition developed into acute leukemia had received prior cytolytic therapy, whereas, in contrast, all PV and ET patients showing this pattern had previously been treated with either 32P or alkylating agents. On the other hand, acute transformation in IM generally had an insidious presentation, contrasting with its abrupt onset in most PV and ET patients. Most acute leukemias (12 out of 13) exhibited a myeloid phenotype. The patients' median survival from diagnosis of the acute transformation was only 3 months, the development of this complication significantly shortening the patients' overall survival.
A polymorphism in the XPD gene predisposes to leukemic transformation and new nonmyeloid malignancies in essential thrombocythemia and polycythemia vera.	Patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and polycythemia vera (PV) have an increased incidence of acute myeloid leukemia and new nonhematologic malignancies compared with the general population. However, information on the factors determining the risk for such complications is limited. In the present study, we investigated whether constitutional genetic variations in DNA repair predispose to leukemic transformation and new nonmyeloid neoplasias in patients with ET and PV. Case-control studies for predisposition to both types of malignancies were nested in a cohort of 422 subjects diagnosed with ET or PV during the period 1973-2010 in several institutions in Spain. A total of 64 incidence cases of leukemia and 50 cases of primary nonmyeloid cancers were accrued. At conditional regression analysis, the Gln/Gln genotype in the XPD codon 751 showed the strongest association with both leukemic transformation (odds ratio [OR] = 4.9; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 2.0-12) and development of nonmyeloid malignancies (OR = 4.2; 95% CI, 1.5-12). Additional predictive factors were exposure to cytoreductive agents for leukemic transformation (OR = 3.5; 95% CI, 2.0-6.2) and age for nonmyeloid malignancies (OR = 2.0; 95% CI, 1.4-2.8). These findings provide further evidence about the contribution of inherited genetic variations to the pathogenesis and clinical course of myeloproliferative neoplasms.
Epidemiology of myelofibrosis, essential thrombocythemia, and polycythemia vera in the European Union.	Primary myelofibrosis (PMF), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and polycythemia vera (PV) are BCR ABL-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). Published epidemiology data are scarce, and multiple sources are needed to assess the disease burden.
