Ischaemia and reperfusion during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery induce extensive thrombin generation and activity.	does open surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) influence coagulation?
Effects of prestorage white cell reduction on platelet aggregate formation and the activation state of platelets and plasma enzyme systems.	The introduction of prestorage white cell (WBC) reduction in random-donor platelet concentrates in Canada has increased the occurrence of particulate material in PCs. The effects of filtration on platelet activation state and the activation of plasma enzyme systems were assessed.
Human thrombi contain an abundance of active thrombin.	This study assessed the abundance and activity of thrombin in human thrombi. removed at autopsy or during surgery. Arterial and venous thrombus sections showed thrombin activity by in situ zymography, based on conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin. Hirudin or antibodies to thrombin abolished the activity. Thrombin activity in extracts of 40 thrombi was quantified by cleavage of fibrinogen or small peptide substrates: the results correlated well (r = 0.87, p<0.0001) with a median activity of about 4.5 IU/g of thrombus (wet weight). Activity correlated poorly with total prothrombin (median 27 microg/g) and was inversely related to antithrombin, but not to PAI-1. Zymography showed two major active bands, thrombin at 37 kDa, and a 50 kDa form that probably corresponds to meizothrombin desF1. The abundant local thrombin demonstrated here has implications for thrombus lysis and extension: incomplete lysis and exposure of active thrombin may lead to re-occlusion of vessels.
Effects of melagatran, the active form of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran, and dalteparin on the endogenous thrombin potential in venous blood from healthy male subjects.	The effect of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran and its active form, melagatran, on thrombin generation was investigated in vitro and ex vivo using a thrombin generation assay. In-vitro thrombin generation was triggered in human platelet-poor plasma by the addition of tissue factor, and the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) was measured. The ETP IC(50) values for melagatran and the low-molecular-weight heparin dalteparin were 0.44 micromol/l and 0.06 IU/ml, respectively. In contrast to dalteparin, melagatran increased the time-to-thrombin peak in a concentration-dependent manner. ETP was also studied ex vivo in platelet-poor plasma collected from healthy male subjects (n = 54) at pre-dose and 2 h post-dose, with ximelagatran (60 mg) orally, dalteparin (120 IU/kg) subcutaneously, or control (water) orally. After ximelagatran or dalteparin administration, the time-to-thrombin peak was prolonged by 41 and 95%, and the ETP was decreased by 61 and 77%, respectively. Thus, melagatran, the active form of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran, efficiently delays and inhibits the generation of thrombin in plasma both in vitro and ex vivo.
Calibrated automated thrombin generation measurement in clotting plasma.	Calibrated automated thrombography displays the concentration of thrombin in clotting plasma with or without platelets (platelet-rich plasma/platelet-poor plasma, PRP/PPP) in up to 48 samples by monitoring the splitting of a fluorogenic substrate and comparing it to a constant known thrombin activity in a parallel, non-clotting sample. Thus, the non-linearity of the reaction rate with thrombin concentration is compensated for, and adding an excess of substrate can be avoided. Standard conditions were established at which acceptable experimental variation accompanies sensitivity to pathological changes. The coefficients of variation of the surface under the curve (endogenous thrombin potential) are: within experiment approximately 3%; intra-individual: <5% in PPP, <8% in PRP; interindividual 15% in PPP and 19% in PRP. In PPP, calibrated automated thrombography shows all clotting factor deficiencies (except factor XIII) and the effect of all anticoagulants [AVK, heparin(-likes), direct inhibitors]. In PRP, it is diminished in von Willebrand's disease, but it also shows the effect of platelet inhibitors (e.g. aspirin and abciximab). Addition of activated protein C (APC) or thrombomodulin inhibits thrombin generation and reflects disorders of the APC system (congenital and acquired resistance, deficiencies and lupus antibodies) independent of concomitant inhibition of the procoagulant pathway as for example by anticoagulants.
Factor VIII inhibitor-bypassing agents act by inducing thrombin generation and can be monitored by a thrombin generation assay.	Factor VIII (FVIII)-bypassing agents have complex modes of action but all control bleeding in inhibitor patients by triggering the generation of thrombin. No routine test is available for monitoring this therapy in patients with inhibitors against FVIII. We present an assay that records FEIBA- or FVIIa-mediated changes in thrombin generation (TG) in FVIII inhibitor plasma samples. In plasma samples spiked with FEIBA TG was normalized above 0.4 U/ml, while for recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa) more than 12.5 microg/ml were required to induce TG in the absence of tissue factor (TF). Addition of TF increased the TG potential of rFVIIa in vitro. This assay seems suitable for monitoring the pharmacokinetics of inhibitor bypassing agents during treatment and possibly for predicting responses to treatment.
Calibrated automated thrombin generation in frozen-thawed platelet-rich plasma to detect hypercoagulability.	To enhance the practical applicability of the calibrated automated thrombogram (CAT) we investigated whether frozen-thawed platelet-rich plasma (ft-PRP) can be used to assess the function of the protein C inhibitory pathway, while preserving the natural phospholipid composition. Recalcified ft-PRP triggered with 0.5 pM recombinant human tissue factor shows a median thrombin potential of 1,779 nM x min, against 1,576 nM x min for fresh PRP. To obtain approximately 70% inhibition, 6.7 nM activated protein C (APC) has to be added, instead of 25 nM in fresh PRP; so the relative APC resistance of PRP appears to depend upon the presence of intact platelets. Factor VIII, added to normal ft-PRP to obtain a concentration of 3.3 U/ml, increases the thrombin potential in the presence of APC 1.5-fold, from 524 to 808 nM x min, in keeping with previously published increases in thrombotic risk in patients with high factor VIII levels. We conclude that thrombography in ft-PRP, with and without added APC, can be used to assess known risk factors for thrombosis, which allows the design of large clinical studies aimed at proving the relationship between thrombin potential and clinical outcome.
Thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma is normal in patients with hereditary mucocutaneous haemorrhages.	Mild hereditary bleeding disorders presenting with mucocutaneous haemorrhages are usually difficult to diagnose. We measured thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma (TG-PPP) in 206 patients with a clinically unequivocal bleeding tendency: 45 with von Willebrand disease (vWD), 49 with platelet aggregation/secretion defects (PASD), 10 with a combination of both and 102 who did not fit the diagnostic criteria for any known haemostatic disorder. TG-PPP was not significantly different from controls in all patient groups, indicating that an abnormality in the plasmatic clotting system is unlikely to contribute to the bleeding in patients with type 1 vWD and PASD. In patients with undiagnosed mild hereditary bleeding disorders, there must be other mechanisms which explain the abnormal haemorrhagic tendency, most likely as yet unrecognized defects in platelet-vessel wall interaction. As a next step we plan to investigate thrombin generation in PRP.
Thrombin generation measurement in factor VII-depleted plasmas compared to inherited factor VII-deficient plasmas.	Activated factor VII (FVIIa)/tissue factor enzyme complex is the initiator of the coagulation cascade in vivo. FVIIa is of particular interest because it has been found to induce haemostasis in various bleeding disorders. In order to evaluate the FVII threshold that is required to initiate the clotting cascade, we measured thrombin generation in FVII-depleted plasmas spiked with increasing amounts of normal pooled plasma and in inherited FVII-deficient plasmas. According to the literature, only trace amounts of FVII are sufficient to initiate blood coagulation in vitro. By contrast, results on inherited FVII-deficient plasmas showed a wide variety of the amounts of thrombin generated in plasmas with the same FVII coagulant activity levels. This suggests that the threshold of FVII required to initiate haemostasis in vivo depends on one or more, hitherto unknown, plasmatic or cellular factors.
Thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma as a tool for the detection of hypercoagulability in young stroke patients.	The time course of the concentration of active thrombin in clotting plasma (the thrombogram) was measured by subsampling from platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and continuous chromogenic measurement of platelet-poor plasma (PPP) in 41 stroke patients under the age of 50, in whom stroke could not be attributed to cardioembolic disease, arterial dissection or vasculitis. A significant increase in the area under the thrombogram (endogenous thrombin potential, ETP) was seen in 23 patients. In 9 of them, ETP was increased in PRP but normal in PPP. High ETP in PRP was significantly associated with stroke, both in the middle and in the highest tercile of the ETP (odds ratio 5.1, range 1.8-15.1, and 3.7, range 1.3-10.3, respectively). A decreased sensitivity to the inhibitory action of thrombomodulin (TM) on thrombin generation was observed in 5 of 37 cases. No further definition of the cause of increased thrombin generation or TM resistance was attempted, except for the role of von Willebrand factor (vWF). ETP in PRP, platelet-derived procoagulant activity and vWF were correlated and higher in patients than in controls (p=0.002, p=0.045 and p=0.0006, respectively). This confirms the correlation between vWF level and stroke at young age found in epidemiological studies. It suggests that the role of vWF in thrombin generation, which has been demonstrated in vitro, may be the underlying mechanism of this correlation. In summary, hypercoagulability, defined as an increased capacity of the platelet plasma system to form thrombin, is found in over half of the patients under 50 years with an otherwise unexplained stroke. Sometimes it is due to increased plasma factor activity, sometimes to an increased procoagulant activity of the platelets.
Prothrombotic effect of erythropoietin in dialysis patients.	Thrombin-antithrombin III complex concentrations (TAT-III) were measured in 18 anaemic haemodialysis patients treated with erythropoietin (Epo) and in four haemodialysis patients treated with i.v. iron dextran. There was a significant early increase in thrombin-antithrombin III in erythropoietin-treated patients which appeared to be independent of the response to erythropoietin (Epo responders (n = 14), pretreatment TAT-III median (range) 3.10 (2.70-9.10) micrograms/l; maximum TAT-III 19.48 (11.18-60.00) micrograms/l, P less than 0.001, Wilcoxon; Epo non-responders (n = 4), pretreatment TAT-III 3.15 (2.90-4.50) micrograms/l, maximum TAT-III 16.00 (10.31-36.12) micrograms/l, P less than 0.001). This was not seen in iron-dextran-treated patients (Pretreatment TAT-III 2.05 (1.90-9.48) micrograms/l, maximum TAT-III 5.60 (2.10-14.50) micrograms/l). The change was not related to haemoglobin, erythropoietin dose, or method of administration, and was transient in nature, thrombin-antithrombin III returning to pretreatment values after approximately 6 months in all patients (Epo responders 6.0(4.0-9.0) months, TAT-III 2.47 (1.30-9.23) micrograms/l; Epo non-responders 7.0 months, TAT-III 5.04 (2.10-7.00) micrograms/l). Increased thrombin-antithrombin III complex may reflect an effect of erythropoietin on microcirculatory factors, which could be relevant to the occurrence of adverse events during treatment.
Sample displacement chromatography of Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar) thrombin.	A modified method of sample displacement chromatography (SDC) was used to purify active salmon thrombin on a heparin-coupled matrix to near homogeneity in milligram amounts from 117 ml plasma. This was achieved by combining a low-pressure multi-column affinity chromatography system with non-homogenous sample application in the order of increasing affinity to Heparin Sepharose. The results suggest that this modified method could be useful in protein purification. Some characteristics of salmon thrombin are presented.
Hemostatic and fibrinolytic activation is less following cutting balloon angioplasty of the coronary arteries.	Recent studies have shown that percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) activates systemic hemostatic activity, reflecting platelet activation and thrombin formation in the coronary arteries. The present study compared systemic levels of hemostatic markers induced by plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA), coronary stenting (STENT), and cutting balloon (CB) angioplasty. Sixty-one patients with stable angina pectoris, who underwent elective PCI or diagnostic coronary angiography (CAG) alone, were investigated. Patients who underwent PCI were divided into the POBA group (n = 11), the STENT group (n = 27), and the CB group (n = 11). Patients who underwent CAG alone were assigned to the CAG group (n = 12). Blood samples were collected before, 24 hours after, and 3 days after PCI or CAG. Plasma concentrations of prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), fibrinopeptide A (FPA), thrombin-antithrombin III complex (TAT), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) were measured. In the CB group, the F1+2 (1.23 +/- 0.4 nmol/L) level 3 days after PCI was significantly smaller than that of the POBA group (2.37 +/- 0.5 nmol/L) (P < 0.05). The FPA (1.81 +/- 0.9 ng/mL), TAT (3.36 +/- 1.2 ng/mL) and PAI-1 (23.0 +/- 4.1 ng/mL) levels in the CB group 3 days after PCI were significantly smaller than those of the POBA group (P < 0.05, respectively) and STENT group (P < 0.05, respectively), but similar to the CAG group. Systemic hemostasis is activated to a greater extent after POBA and stenting than it is after CB angioplasty of the coronary arteries. This may contribute to the favorable long-term outcome of CB angioplasty.
Platelet-dependent thrombin generation after in vitro fibrinolytic treatment.	Fibrinolytic therapy is associated with frequent rethrombosis. There is evidence of both increased coagulation and platelet activation.
Enhanced thrombin generation and fibrinolytic activity in normal pregnancy and the puerperium.	Blood coagulation and fibrinolytic inhibitors and the balance between and within the two systems were investigated in 26 normal pregnant women during pregnancy and the puerperium. The concentration of the coagulation inhibitors antithrombin and protein C remained within normal levels, whereas the mean level of free protein S showed a significant decrease from 0.26 U/mL in early pregnancy to 0.14 U/mL in week 35. At the same time, soluble fibrin levels increased from 9.2 to 13.4 nmol/L and thrombin-antithrombin complexes increased from 3.1 to 7.1 micrograms/L; both are indicators of thrombin activity. A concurrent increase in the levels of the fibrinolytic inhibitors plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and -2 from 7.4 to 37.8 AU/mL and 31 to 160 micrograms/L, respectively, suggests a decrease in fibrinolytic activity. However, the levels of fibrin D-dimer, ie, fibrin split products, also increased in parallel from 91 to 198 micrograms/L, suggesting that fibrinolysis is present. Thus, a balance normally exists, which is probably why thrombotic events are rare during pregnancy.
The single nucleotide polymorphism Ser128Arg in the E-selectin gene is associated with enhanced coagulation during human endotoxemia.	The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) Ser128Arg in the E-selectin gene is overrepresented in certain patient groups with atherosclerosis or restenosis. We hypothesized and tested whether it may affect cytokine-induced levels of soluble (s) E-selectin, or be associated with proinflammatory or procoagulant properties in a well-standardized inflammation model. Healthy male volunteers (n = 157) received a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) infusion and were genotyped for the S128R SNP, and outcome parameters were measured by enzyme immunoassays and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR, Taqman). The S128R SNP had no pronounced effects on basal or inducible sE-selectin levels, or levels of tumor necrosis factor or interleukin-6. However, carriers of the S128R SNP had 20% higher monocyte counts at 24 hours after LPS infusion. Importantly, the S128R allele enhanced thrombin generation by 50% to 80%, as measured by prothrombin fragment F(1+2) (P < .01), and hence fibrin formation (D-dimer) 2-fold (P = .01 to P = .002). However, tissue factor (TF) mRNA levels were not affected. The S128R E-selectin genotype is associated with procoagulant effects in a human model of endotoxin-induced, TF-triggered coagulation. This could contribute to its linkage with various thrombotic cardiovascular disorders.
Monitoring complex formation in the blood-coagulation cascade using aptamer-coated SAW sensors.	Specific binding of the anticoagulants heparin and antithrombin III to the blood clotting cascade factor human thrombin was recorded as a function of time with a Love-wave biosensor array consisting of five sensor elements. Two of the sensor elements were used as references. Three sensor elements were coated with RNA or DNA aptamers for specific binding of human thrombin. The affinity between the aptamers and thrombin, measured using the biosensor, was within the same range as the value of K(D) measured by filter binding experiments. Consecutive binding of the thrombin inhibitors heparin, antithrombin III or the heparin-antithrombin III complex to the immobilized thrombin molecules, and binding of a ternary complex of heparin, anithrombin III, and thrombin to aptamers was evaluated. The experiments showed attenuation of binding to thrombin due to heparin-antithrombin III complex formation. Binding of heparin activated the formation of the inhibitory complex of antithrombin III with thrombin about 2.7-fold. Binding of the DNA aptamer to exosite II appeared to inhibit heparin binding to exosite I.
Novel electrochemical sensor system for protein using the aptamers in sandwich manner.	Novel electrochemical detection system for protein in sandwich manner using the aptamers was developed. Two different aptamers, which recognize different positions of thrombin, were chosen to construct sandwich type sensing system for protein, and one was immobilized onto the gold electrode for capturing thrombin onto the electrode and the other was used for detection. To obtain the signal, the aptamer for detection was labeled with pyrroquinoline quinone glucose dehydrogenase ((PQQ)GDH), and the electrical current, generated from glucose addition after the formation of the complex of thrombin, gold immobilized aptamer and the (PQQ)GDH labeled aptamer on the electrode, was measured. The increase of the electric current generated by (PQQ)GDH was observed in dependent manner of the concentration of thrombin added, and more than 10nM thrombin was detected selectively. The batch type protein sensing system was constructed using the two different aptamers sandwiching thrombin and it showed linear response to the increase of the thrombin concentration in the range of 40-100 nM.
Anticoagulant action of vanadate.	Sodium orthovanadate (vanadate) prolonged the clotting time of normal human plasma in a dose-dependent manner. The prolongation of clotting time by vanadate linearly decreased with an increase in the concentration of amiloride. Vanadate also was completely additive to prolongation by heparin. When factor Xa or thrombin was incubated with vanadate, the amidolytic activity of each decreased in a dose-dependent manner with vanadate. Amiloride protected the decrease of amidolytic activity of both factor Xa and thrombin by vanadate. The amidolytic activity of trypsin also was inhibited by vanadate, but that of alpha-chymotrypsin was not inhibited, suggesting that vanadate preferentially inhibits the amidolytic activity of trypsin and trypsin-like enzymes. These results show that vanadate prolongs the clotting time of plasma through mechanisms involving in part the inhibition of the activity of both factor Xa and thrombin.
Non-thrombogenicity by novel surface modification methods.	Three novel methods, recently developed by us, for the synthesis of non-thrombogenetic materials were reviewed. The first was the utilization of poly(vinyl sulfonate) as a heparinoid and a newly synthesized polymerizable-thrombin-inhibitor. The chemicals were grafted onto the surfaces of materials. The second was the use of thrombin-substrate-analog peptide. The immobilized peptide was decomposed by blood coagulation factors and inhibited thrombus formation on the surface. The third method was the enhancement of endothelialization by immobilization of bio-signal molecules. The immobilized biosignals remarkably accelerated the growth of endothelial cells.
An aptamer-based protein biochip.	The establishment of an aptamer-based biochip for protein detection is described. Using a model system comprising human IgE as the analyte and single-stranded DNA aptamers specific for IgE or anti-IgE antibodies as immobilized ligands on chips, we could demonstrate that aptamers were equivalent or superior to antibodies in terms of specificity and sensitivity, respectively. Aptamer-based analyte detection on glass slides could clearly be demonstrated at minimum concentrations of 10 ng/mL IgE. In addition, we successfully showed specific analyte recognition in complex protein samples by the aptamer-based biochip system. Using DNA aptamers specific for human thrombin as an additional model receptor/ligand system, dual protein detection on a single slide could be proven. In conclusion, we could show the suitability of nucleic acid aptamers as low molecular weight receptors on biochips for sensitive and specific protein detection, representing an innovative tool for future proteomics.
Elements from in vitro studies that help understand the action of heparins.	In determining heparin one has the choice to test a specific activity, such as the decay constant of thrombin or factor Xa on a global test such as the aPTT. The best test would be a global test that directly reflects the only important global effect, to wit antithrombotic efficiency. Such a test does not yet exist. We propose that the thrombin potential, i.e. the time concentration integral of thrombin activity appearing in plasma after triggering is a plausible candidate for such a test.
Predilution versus postdilution during continuous venovenous hemofiltration: a comparison of circuit thrombogenesis.	During continuous venovenous hemofiltration, predilution can prolong circuit survival time, but the underlying mechanism has not been elucidated. The aim of the present study was to compare predilution with postdilution, with respect to circuit thrombogenesis. Eight critically ill patients were treated with both predilutional and postdilutional continuous venovenous hemofiltration in a crossover fashion. A filtration flow of 60 ml/min was used in both modes. We chose blood flows of 140 and 200 ml/min during predilution and postdilution, respectively, to keep the total flow through the hemofilter constant. Extracorporeal circuit pressures were measured hourly, and samples of blood and ultrafiltrate were collected at five different time points. Thrombin-antithrombin complexes and prothrombin fragments F1 + 2 were measured by ELISA, and platelet activation was assessed by flow cytometry. No signs of thrombin generation or platelet activation were found during either mode. During postdilution, baseline platelet count and maximal prefilter pressure had a linear relation, whereas both parameters were inversely related with circuit survival time. In summary, predilution and postdilution did not differ with respect to extracorporeal circuit thrombogenesis. During postdilution, baseline platelet count and maximal prefilter pressure were inversely related with circuit survival time.
The major component of a large, intracellular proteinase accumulated by inhibitors is a complex of alpha 2-macroglobulin and thrombin.	A large, intracellular proteinase accumulated by inhibitors (PABI) was found in cultured mammalian cells as a large, multicatalytic proteinase with a greatly elevated concentration in the presence of small peptide proteinase inhibitors (Tsuji and Kurachi (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 16093). Electron microscopic analysis showed that the tertiary structure of PABI highly resembled that of alpha 2-macroglobulin complexed with a proteinase(s). Isolation of the anti-PABI cross-reacting material from calf serum added to the culture media of baby hamster kidney cells further supported that the primary component of PABI was alpha 2-macroglobulin. Immunoblot analyses and the substrate specificity of PABI indicated that the major proteinase component contained in PABI was thrombin. When alpha 2-macroglobulin was added to the PABI-depleted serum, a significant accumulation or a degradation of the intracellular alpha 2-macroglobulin was observed in the presence or absence of leupeptin, respectively. Similarly, when thrombin was added to the PABI-depleted fetal calf serum supplemented with fresh alpha 2-macroglobulin, a significant amount of intracellular thrombin was found only in the presence of leupeptin. These results indicate that the major component of the intracellular PABI molecules is a complex of alpha 2-macroglobulin with thrombin which is internalized from the culture media. Intracellular accumulation of PABI, therefore, is a phenomenon primarily relevant to the culture cells. Whether or not PABI is also generated in certain physiological or pathological conditions requires further study.
Thrombin-antithrombin appearance in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.	Intravascular thrombosis induced during out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OOHCA) may contribute to the pathophysiology of cardiac arrest and complicate resuscitation. We characterized the prevalence of thrombogenesis during OOHCA by measuring plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin complexes (TAT).
Effects of atorvastatin and aspirin combined therapy on inflammatory responses in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.	This study was conducted to compare the effects of atorvastatin plus aspirin combined therapy on inflammatory responses, endothelial cell function, and blood coagulation system in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) to aspirin monotherapy. The patients were randomized into atorvastatin plus aspirin combined therapy group and aspirin monotherapy group. Reduced total cholesterol in the combined therapy group was found in a short term of medication for 14 days. On postoperative day (POD)-14, inhibitory effects of the combined therapy on whole blood aggregation as well as platelet activation assessed by flow cytometry were stronger than those of the monotherapy. Furthermore, cytokine, cytokine receptors, c-reactive protein and alpha1-acid glycoprotein in the combined therapy group were down-regulated on POD-14. At the same time, circulating levels of thromboxane A(2), vascular endothelial growth factor and thrombin-antithrombin III complex as well as P-selectin, L-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 were down-regulated, while E-selectin and transforming growth factor-beta1 was up-regulated. Atorvastatin plus aspirin combined therapy may improve inflammatory responses, accelerated platelet function, vascular endothelial cell function, blood coagulation system at the early stage such as 14th day after CABG. In conclusion, atorvastatin and aspirin combined therapy may bring beneficial effects to the patient after CABG.
Estimation of the correlation between hemostatic parameters and serum lipids in patients with hyperlipidemia type II after simvastatin therapy]	The aim of the study was to evaluate the correlation between hemostatic parameters such as: the activity of antithrombin III and factor X, thrombin generation, clot bound thrombin, fibrinogen and serum lipids in patients (pts) with hyperlipidemia (hlp) type II after 2-months treatment with simvastatin in dose 20 mg/day.
Endogenous thrombin potential for predicting risk of venous thromboembolism in carriers of factor V Leiden.	Measurement of endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) detects hypercoagulability and can be used to identify activated protein C resistance due to factor V Leiden (FVL). However, not all carriers of FVL suffer thrombosis and therefore we sought to determine if the test for ETP could be modified in such a way as to enable detection of FVL patients who were at increased risk of venous thromboembolism. Protac, an activator of both protein C and factor V, was incorporated into the traditional thrombin generation reaction and ratios (reaction with Protac:reaction without Protac) were calculated. Plasma samples from 42 FVL heterozygotes (12 with a history of thrombosis and 30 with no prior thrombosis) and 38 controls (non-FVL with no history of thrombosis) were analysed. The mean ETP ratio was significantly higher in FVL heterozygotes (0.90 +/- 0.06) compared to normal controls (0.41 +/- 0.10; p = 0.00004). Multivariate analysis indicated that the average ETP ratio was significantly and inversely correlated with factor V levels in FVL heterozygotes (p = 0.002) but not controls. Within the FVL group, patients with a history of thrombosis had higher ETP ratios (0.92 +/- 0.06) compared to those without (0.89 +/- 0.05), however, this did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.09). Further investigation into the use of ETP for detecting risk of thrombosis in people who are genetically predisposed is warranted. The recent introduction of diagnostic ETP measurements in the form of the calibrated automated thrombin generation from Thrombinoscope and the TechnoThrombin from Baxter should facilitate such studies.
High rate of unprovoked recurrent venous thrombosis is associated with high thrombin-generating potential in a prospective cohort study.	To determine the predictive value of measurement of parameters of thrombin generation for unprovoked recurrent venous thrombosis.
Au-nanoparticles as an electrochemical sensing platform for aptamer-thrombin interaction.	A novel electrochemical method for the detection of bioaffinity interactions based on a gold-nanoparticles sensing platform and on the usage of stripping voltammetry technique was developed. The oxidation of gold surface (resulted in gold oxide formation) upon polarization served as a basis for analytical response. As a model, thrombin-thrombin binding aptamer couple was chosen. The aptamer was immobilized on a screen-printed electrode modified with gold-nanoparticles by avidin-biotin technology. Cathodic peak area was found proportional to thrombin quantity specifically adsorbed onto electrode surface. Sigmoid calibration curve as is typical for immunoassay was obtained, with thrombin detection limit of 10(-9)M. Linear range corresponds from 10(-8) to 10(-5)M thrombin concentration or 2 x 10(-14) to 2 x 10(-11)mol/electrode (R=0.996). Binding of thrombin to an aptamer has also been detected using the ferricyanide/ferrocyanide redox couple as electrochemical indicator.
Increased thrombin levels during thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Relevance for the success of therapy.	It has been suggested that thrombolysis in a feedback reaction may generate pro-coagulant activities.
Evaluation of heparin cofactor II-thrombin complex as a biomarker on blood spots from mucopolysaccharidosis I, IIIA and IIIB mice.	Mucopolysaccharide (MPS) diseases are lysosomal storage disorders caused by deficiencies of enzymes catabolising glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Abnormal GAG accumulation leads to symptoms including severe progressive neurological decline, skeletal deformities, organomegally, respiratory compromise and premature death. Treatment is available for some MPS diseases; enzyme replacement therapy for MPS I, II and VI, and haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for MPS I, VI and VII. These treatments are reliant on early diagnosis of the disease and accurate monitoring of treatment outcomes. Blood enzyme levels and total urinary GAGs are commonly used biomarkers in diagnosis of MPS but are not good measures of treatment outcome. Serum heparin cofactor II-thrombin complex (HCII-T), which is a GAG regulated serpin-protease complex, has recently been identified as a promising biomarker for MPS diseases. Here we present an assessment of the HCII-T biomarker in mouse models of MPS I, IIIA and IIIB, which suggests that HCII-T is a reliable marker for MPS I when measured in serum or dried blood spots stored for over a year at 4 degrees C, but that murine MPS IIIA and IIIB cannot be reliably detected using this biomarker. We also show that HCII-T formation in vivo is dependent on the presence of excess intravenous dermatan sulphate (DS), whilst intravenous heparan sulphate (HS), does not promote complex formation effectively. This suggests that HCII-T will prove effective as a biomarker for MPS I, II, VI and VII diseases, storing dermatan sulphate but may not be as appropriate for MPS III, storing heparan sulphate. With careful sample preparation, HCII-T ELISA could prove to be a useful biomarker for both newborn screening and measurement of treatment outcomes in selected MPS diseases.
Solid-state probe based electrochemical aptasensor for cocaine: a potentially convenient, sensitive, repeatable, and integrated sensing platform for drugs.	Aptamers, which are artificial oligonucleotides selected in vitro, have been employed to design novel biosensors (i.e., aptasensors). In this work, we first constructed a label-free electrochemical aptasensor introducing a probe immobilization technique by the use of a layer-by-layer (LBL) self-assembled multilayer with ferrocene-appended poly(ethyleneimine) (Fc-PEI) on an indium tin oxide (ITO) array electrode for detection of cocaine. The Fc-PEI and gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were LBL assembled on the electrode surface via electrostatic interaction. Then, cocaine aptamer fragments, SH-C2, were covalently labeled onto the outermost AuNP layer. When the target cocaine and cocaine aptamer C1 were present simultaneously, the SH-C2 layer hybridized partly with C1 to bind the cocaine, which led to a decreased differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) signal of Fc-PEI. This DPV signal change could be used to sensitively detect cocaine with the lowest detectable concentration down to 0.1 microM and the detection range up to 38.8 microM, which falls in the the expected range for medical use of detecting drug abuse involving cocaine. Meanwhile, the sensor was specific to cocaine in complex biologic fluids such as human plasma, human saliva, etc. The sensing strategy had general applicability, and the detection of thrombin could also be realized, displayed a low detection limit, and exhibited worthiness to other analytes. The aptasensor based on the array electrode held promising potential for integration of the sensing ability in multianalysis for simultaneous detection.
An aptamer-based assay for thrombin via structure switch based on gold nanoparticles and magnetic nanoparticles.	An aptamer-based assay for thrombin with high specificity and sensitivity was presented. In the protocol, the aptamer for thrombin was immobilized on magnetic nanoparticle, and its complementary oligonucleotide was labeled with gold nanoparticles, then the aptamer was hybridized with the complementary oligonucleotide to form the duplex structure as a probe, this probe could be used for the specific recognition for thrombin. In the presence of thrombin, the aptamer prefer to form the G-quarter structure with thrombin, resulting in the dissociation of the duplex of the probe and the release of the gold labeled oligonucleotide. Upon this, we were able to detect thrombin through the detection of the electrochemical signal of gold nanoparticles. The strategy combines with the high specificity of aptamer and the excellent characteristics of nanoparticles. This assay is simple, rapid, sensitive and highly specific, it does not require labeling of thrombin, and it could be applied to detect thrombin in complex real sample. The method shows great potential in other protein analysis and in disease diagnosis.
A novel low-cost and easy to develop functionalization platform. Case study: aptamer-based detection of thrombin by surface plasmon resonance.	A novel low-cost platform to assess biomolecular interactions was investigated using surface plasmon resonance and an aptamer-based assay for thrombin detection. Gold SPR surface functionalized with a carboxylated cross-linked BSA film (cBSA) and commercially available carboxymethylated dextran chip (CM5) were used as immobilization platforms for the thrombin binding aptamer. The high end commercial instrument Biacore 3000 and a custom made FIA set-up involving TI Spreeta sensor (TSPR2K23) were used to assess different concentrations of thrombin within the range 0.1-150 nM both in buffer and in a complex matrix (plasma) using the obtained aptasensors. Based on data derived from both CM5 and cBSA platforms, the cBSA aptasensor exhibited good selectivity, stability and regeneration ability, both in buffer and in complex matrices (plasma), comparable with CM5.
Nanogap dielectric spectroscopy for aptamer-based protein detection.	Among the various label-free methods for monitoring biomolecular interactions, capacitive sensors stand out due to their simple instrumentation and compatibility with multiplex formats. However, electrode polarization due to ion gradient formation and noise from solution conductance limited early dielectric spectroscopic measurements to high frequencies only, which in turn limited their sensitivity to biomolecular interactions, as the applied excitation signals were too fast for the charged macromolecules to respond. To minimize electrode polarization effects, capacitive sensors with 20 nm electrode separation were fabricated using silicon dioxide sacrificial layer techniques. The nanoscale separation of the capacitive electrodes in the sensor results in an enhanced overlapping of electrical double layers, and apparently a more ordered "ice-like" water structure. Such effects in turn reduce low frequency contributions from bulk sample resistance and from electrode polarization, and thus markedly enhance sensitivity toward biomolecular interactions. Using these nanogap capacitive sensors, highly sensitive, label-free aptamer-based detection of protein molecules is achieved.
Case of livedoid vasculopathy with extensive dermal capillary thrombi.	Livedoid vasculopathy (LV) is thought to be a thrombogenic disorder. Here, we report a case of LV presenting livedo reticularis with leg ulcers clinically and many thrombogenic cutaneous vessels histologically. These features strongly suggested the presence of thrombogenic factors involved with the development of the lesions. After examination of various possible thrombogenic factors including phosphatidylserine-dependent anti-prothrombin antibody, we failed to detect any responsible thrombogenic factors for this case of LV. Recently, diverse thrombogenic factors have been reported to be involved in LV. This case may suggest that unknown thrombogenic factors are additionally related to LV pathogenesis.
Insulin-heparin infusions peritransplant substantially improve single-donor clinical islet transplant success.	Successful islet transplantation can result in insulin independence in many patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, but it often requires more than one islet infusion. The ability to achieve insulin independence with a single donor is an important goal in clinical islet transplantation due to the limited organ supply.
Hypercoagulability in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus detected by a thrombin generation assay.	Diabetes is a risk factor for the development of atherothrombosis and venous thromboembolism (VTE). We investigated whether plasma from patients with type 2 diabetes has an imbalance of pro- versus anti-coagulation resulting in hypercoagulability despite normal conventional coagulation tests. We analyzed blood samples from 60 patients with type 2 diabetes and 60 gender- and age-matched healthy subjects (controls) for the levels of pro- and anti-coagulant factors, for thrombin generation and for the numbers of cell-derived circulating microparticles bearing such pro-coagulant triggers as tissue factor and negatively charged phospholipids. The levels of pro- or anti-coagulants as measured with conventional coagulation tests or single factor measurements were similar to those of the control population. In contrast, the median (range) of the height of the thrombin peak (taken as an index of thrombin generation) was higher in patients [205 nM (126-352)] than controls [151 nM (41-289)], P < 0.001. The median numbers of circulating microparticles were higher for patients [5,041/μl (1,821-13,132)] than for controls [1,753/μl (554-13,308)], P < 0.001 and their values were correlated with the height of the thrombin peak (ρ = 0.66, P < 0.001). In conclusion, plasma from patients with type 2 diabetes possesses an imbalance of pro- versus anti-coagulation resulting in hypercoagulability that can be detected by thrombin generation tests, but not by the measurement of the single pro- or anti-coagulant factors. This hypercoagulability is associated with increased numbers of circulating microparticles bearing endogenous pro-coagulant triggers. These findings might explain the relatively high risk of atherothrombosis and VTE described in these patients.
Hemophilia A in cardiac operations: a model of reduced thrombin generation.	Patients with hemophilia A have a congenital defect in thrombin generation. Only limited data are available on the substitution regimens in hemophilia A patients during and after cardiac operations. There are no data on heparinization of these patients during cardiopulmonary bypass. Whereas most case reports suggest factor VIII replacement in combination with standard heparinization to achieve near-normal physiologic factor VIII activity, we describe the successful management of a hemophilic A patient using a low-level factor VIII replacement combined with a reduced heparin dosage during cardiopulmonary bypass. This approach facilitated adequate anticoagulation and minimized the amount of factor VIII treatment necessary without compromising bleeding control.
Electron-transfer quenching of nucleic acid-functionalized CdSe/ZnS quantum dots by doxorubicin: a versatile system for the optical detection of DNA, aptamer-substrate complexes and telomerase activity.	The optical detection of DNA or the sensing of low-molecular-weight substrates or proteins by aptamer nucleic acids is a long term challenge in the design of biosensors. Similarly, the detection of the telomerase activity, a versatile biomarker of cancer cells, is important for rapid cancer diagnostics. We implement the luminescence quenching of the CdSe/ZnS quantum dots (QDs) as a versatile process to develop DNA sensors and aptasensors, and to design an analytical platform for the detection of telomerase activity. The formation of nucleic acid duplexes on QDs, or the assembly of aptamer-substrate complexes on the QDs (substrate=cocaine or thrombin) is accompanied by the intercalation of doxorubicin (DB) into the duplex domains of the resulting recognition complexes. The intercalated DB quenches the luminescence of the QDs, thus leading to the detection readout signal. Similarly, the telomerase-induced formation of the telomere chains on the QDs is followed by the hybridization of nucleic-acid units complementary to the telomere repeat units, and the intercalation of DB into the resulting duplex structure. The resulting luminescence quenching of the QDs provides an indicating signal for the activity of telomerase.
In-situ produced ascorbic acid as coreactant for an ultrasensitive solid-state tris(2,2'-bipyridyl) ruthenium(II) electrochemiluminescence aptasensor.	Herein, an ultrasensitive solid-state tris(2,2'-bipyridyl) ruthenium(II) (Ru(bpy)(3)(2+)) electrochemiluminescence (ECL) aptasensor using in-situ produced ascorbic acid as coreactant was successfully constructed for detection of thrombin. Firstly, the composite of Ru(bpy)(3)(2+) and platinum nanoparticles (Ru-PtNPs) were immobilized onto Nafion coated glass carbon electrode, followed by successive adsorption of streptavidin-alkaine phosphatase conjugate (SA-ALP) and biotinylated anti-thrombin aptamer to successfully construct an ECL aptasensor for thrombin determination. In our design, Pt nanoparticles in Ru(bpy)(3)(2+)-Nafion film successfully inhibited the migration of Ru(bpy)(3)(2+) into the electrochemically hydrophobic region of Nafion and facilitated the electron transfer between Ru(bpy)(3)(2+) and electrode surface. Furthermore, ALP on the electrode surface could catalyze hydrolysis of ascorbic acid 2-phosphate to in-situ produce ascorbic acid, which co-reacted with Ru(bpy)(3)(2+) to obtain quite fast, stable and greatly amplified ECL signal. The experimental results indicated that the aptasensor exhibited good response for thrombin with excellent sensitivity, selectivity and stability. A linear range of 1 × 10(-15)-1 × 10(-8) M with an ultralow detection limit of 0.33 fM (S/N=3) was obtained. Thus, this procedure has great promise for detection of thrombin present at ultra-trace levels during early stage of diseases.
Bi-cell surface plasmon resonance detection of aptamer mediated thrombin capture in serum.	The serine protease coagulation factor thrombin functions primarily in hemostasis, but is also involved in atherosclerosis, thromboembolic disease, cancer and inflammatory disease. Direct measurement of coagulation proteins including thrombin in plasma samples poses a significant challenge because of lack of specific probes and low thrombin concentrations. In addition, high plasma protein concentrations in samples can result in high backgrounds. These challenges were overcome using a bi-cell surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectrometer with an immobilized thrombin aptamer to measure thrombin in samples passed through a low volume flow cell. For thrombin in Tris-EDTA buffer, the limit of detection (LOD) was 25 nM. Coefficient of variation (CV) for detection of 50 nM was 12.2% and 12.4% for intra and inter-day measurements respectively. This detection was specific for both thrombin aptamer and for thrombin. Using serum samples spiked with thrombin, the LOD was 50 nM with a linear range of detection from 50 nM to 200 nM. However use of serum samples was associated with consistent, low-level background drift. The contributions of nonspecific protein absorption onto the sensor surface and sample flow speed were assessed, and strategies to reduce this background drift were explored. We conclude that the bi-cell SPR platform with an aptamer capture probe can be employed as a highly sensitive real-time, label-free biosensor for the detection of coagulation factors in plasma samples.
Label-free fluorescent detection of thrombin using G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme as sensing platform.	We report herein a label-free and sensitive fluorescent method for detection of thrombin using a G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme as the sensing platform. The thrombin-binding aptamer (TBA) is able to bind hemin to form the G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme, and thrombin can significantly enhance the activity of the G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme. The G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme is found to effectively catalyze the H(2)O(2)-mediated oxidation of thiamine, giving rise to fluorescence emission. This allows us to utilize the H(2)O(2)-thiamine fluorescent system for the quantitative analysis of thrombin. The assay shows a linear toward thrombin concentration in the range of 0.01-0.12 nM. The present limit of detection for thrombin is 1 pM, and the sensitivity for analyzing thrombin is improved by about 10,000-fold as compared with the reported colorimetric counterpart. The work also demonstrates that thiamine is an excellent substrate for the fluorescence assay using the G-quadruplex-based DNAzyme as the sensing platform.
Antibody-functionalized SERS tags with improved sensitivity.	Protein detection at the femtomolar level can be achieved by using metallic nanoparticle assemblies that function as surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy reporters and that contain suitable surface-bound recognition elements. Proper control of the interaction between nanoparticles within the assemblies is critical for achieving this performance.
Global haemostasis assays, from bench to bedside.	Bleeding and thrombosis are the ultimate clinical outcomes of aberrations in the haemostatic process. Haemostasis prevents excessive blood loss due to the effort of various compartments like the vasculature, blood cells, coagulation and fibrinolysis. The complexity of all processes involved makes the diagnosis of aberrations difficult, cumbersome and expensive. A single assay to detect any factor disturbing this haemostatic balance with high sensitivity and specificity would be of great value, especially if the outcome of this assay correlates well with clinical outcome. Despite years of research, such an assay is not yet available; however, some interesting candidates are under development and combine the effects of various compartments. This review describes the development of global haemostasis assays and summarizes the current state of the art of these haemostasis assays covering thrombin and plasmin generation, turbidity and thromboelastography/thromboelastometry. Finally, we discuss the applicability of global assays in clinical practice and we provide a future perspective on the ongoing development of automation and miniaturisation as it is our belief that these developments will benefit the standardization of global haemostasis assays.
Molecularly imprinted aptamers of gold nanoparticles for the enzymatic inhibition and detection of thrombin.	We prepared thrombin-binding aptamer-conjugated gold nanoparticles (TBA-Au NPs) through a molecularly imprinted (MP) approach, which provide highly efficient inhibition activity toward the polymerization of fibrinogen. Au NPs (diameter, 13 nm), 15-mer thrombin-binding aptamer (TBA(15)) with different thymidine linkers, and 29-mer thrombin-binding aptamer (TBA(29)) with different thymidine linkers (Tn) in the presence of thrombin (Thr) as a template were used to prepare MP-Thr-TBA(15)/TBA(29)-Tn-Au NPs. Thrombin molecules were then removed from Au NPs surfaces by treating with 100 mM Tris-NaOH (pH ca. 13.0) to form MP-TBA(15)/TBA(29)-Tn-Au NPs. The length of the thymidine linkers and TBA density on Au NPs surfaces have strong impact on the orientation, flexibility, and stability of MP-TBA(15)/TBA(29)-Tn-Au NPs, leading to their stronger binding strength with thrombin. MP-TBA(15)/TBA(29)-T(15)-Au NPs (ca. 42 TBA(15) and 42 TBA(29) molecules per Au NP; 15-mer thymidine on aptamer terminal) provided the highest binding affinity toward thrombin with a dissociation constant of 5.2 × 10(-11) M. As a result, they had 8 times higher anticoagulant (inhibitory) potency relative to TBA(15)/TBA(29)-T(15)-Au NPs (prepared in the absence of thrombin). We further conducted thrombin clotting time (TCT) measurements in plasma samples and found that MP-TBA(15)/TBA(29)-T(15)-Au NPs had greater anticoagulation activity relative to four commercial drugs (heparin, argatroban, hirudin, and warfarin). In addition, we demonstrated that thrombin induced the formation of aggregates from MP-TBA(15)-T(15)-Au NPs and MP-TBA(29)-T(15)-Au NPs, thereby allowing the colorimetric detection of thrombin at the nanomolar level in serum samples. Our result demonstrates that our simple molecularly imprinted approach can be applied for preparing various functional nanomaterials to control enzyme activity and targeting important proteins.
Enzyme-free fluorescence aptasensor for amplification detection of human thrombin via target-catalyzed hairpin assembly.	Aptamers have many advantages, such as simple synthesis, good stability, high binding affinity and wide applicability, making them suitable candidates for protein detection. Since the disease-related protein may be present in very small amounts in biological samples, the development of amplification paths for aptasensors is essential. In this paper, we develop a simple and enzyme-free amplified aptasensor for protein detection via target-catalyzed hairpin assembly. This aptasensor contains two DNA hairpins termed as H1 and H2. H1, which is modified at its 5' and 3' ends with a fluorophore and a quencher respectively, consists of the aptamer sequence of human thrombin. Meanwhile, H2 is partially complementary to H1. These two hairpins H1 and H2 interact slowly with each other. Upon the addition of target protein, it can facilitate the opening of the hairpin structure of H1 and thus accelerate the hybridization between H1 and H2, resulting in the significant fluorescence enhancement of the system. By monitoring the change in fluorescence intensity, we could detect the target protein with high sensitivity. The detection limit of this aptasensor is 20 pM, which is more than two orders of magnitude lower than that of reported unamplified aptasensors. Furthermore, this amplified aptasensor shows high selectivity toward its target protein. Thus, the proposed aptasensor could be used as a simple, sensitive and selective platform for target protein detection.
Binding-induced fluorescence turn-on assay using aptamer-functionalized silver nanocluster DNA probes.	We present here a binding-induced fluorescence turn-on assay for protein detection. Key features of this assay include affinity binding-induced DNA hybridization and fluorescence enhancement of silver nanoclusters (Ag NCs) using guanine-rich DNA sequences. In an example of an assay for human α-thrombin, two aptamers (Apt15 and Apt29) were used and were modified by including additional sequence elements. A 12-nucleotide (nt) sequence was used to link the first aptamer with a nanocluster nucleation sequence at the 5'-end. The second aptamer was linked through a complementary sequence (12-nt) to a G-rich overhang at the 3'-end. Binding of the two aptamer probes to the target protein initiates hybridization between the complementary linker sequences attached to each aptamer and thereby bring the end of the G-rich overhang to close proximity to Ag NCs, resulting in a significant fluorescence enhancement. With this approach, a detection limit of 1 nM and a linear dynamic range of 5 nM-2 μM were achieved for human α-thrombin. This fluorescence assay is performed in a single tube, and it does not require washing or separation steps. The principle of the binding-induced DNA hybridization and fluorescence enhancement of Ag NCs can be extended to other homogeneous assay applications provided that two appropriate probes are available to bind with the same target molecule.
Fractal gold modified electrode for ultrasensitive thrombin detection.	We report a label-free and ultrasensitive aptasensor based on a fractal gold modified (FracAu) electrode for thrombin detection with a femtomolar detection limit. The FracAu electrode was prepared by electrodeposition of hydrogen tetrachloroaurate (HAuCl(4)) onto a bare indium tin oxide (ITO) electrode surface. After this process the electrode was characterized by SEM. A thiol-modified aptamer against thrombin was immobilized on the FracAu electrode through a self-assembling process. Upon thrombin binding, the interfacial electron transfer of the FracAu electrode was perturbed by the formation of an aptamer-thrombin complex. The concentration of thrombin in the sample solution was determined by measuring the change in the oxidation peak current of hydroxymethyl ferrocene (C(11)H(12)FeO) with differential pulse voltammetry (DPV). The current response (reduced peak current) had a linear relationship with the logarithm of thrombin concentrations in the range of 10(-15) to 10(-10) M with a detection limit of 5.7 fM. Furthermore, the as-prepared FracAu electrode exhibited high selectivity. The application of FracAu electrodes may be extended to prepare other types of biosensors, such as immunosensors, enzyme biosensors and DNA biosensors. These results show that FracAu electrodes have great promise for clinical diagnosis of disease-related biomarkers.
A role of D-dimer and fibrinopeptide A in diagnosis of a hemostasis system disorders]	The investigations, concerning detection of the hemostasis system activation, were done in 26 patients, suffering various critical morbid states (an acute pancreatitis). The contents of products of the enzymes lysis of coagulation system and fibrinolytic system constitute one of the most precise indices. Fibrinopeptid A (FpA) is considered one of the most secure indices, confirming intravascular thrombin formation, and D-dimer--of a fibrin formation. In the patients examined a trustworthy increase of a D-dimer and FpA contents was registered, witnessing the hemostasis system activation in an acute pancreatitis as well as an excessive formation and lysis of fibrin. D-dimer and FpA contents in a plasma constitutes an important diagnostic index, its determination secures the possibility of early diagnosis and control of a hemostasis system disorders.
A reusable impedimetric aptasensor for detection of thrombin employing a graphite-epoxy composite electrode.	Here, we report the application of a label-free electrochemical aptasensor based on a graphite-epoxy composite electrode for the detection of thrombin; in this work, aptamers were immobilized onto the electrodes surface using wet physical adsorption. The detection principle is based on the changes of the interfacial properties of the electrode; these were probed in the presence of the reversible redox couple [Fe(CN)(6)](3-)/[Fe(CN)(6)](4-) using impedance measurements. The electrode surface was partially blocked due to formation of aptamer-thrombin complex, resulting in an increase of the interfacial electron-transfer resistance detected by Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS). The aptasensor showed a linear response for thrombin in the range of 7.5 pM to 75 pM and a detection limit of 4.5 pM. The aptasensor was regenerated by breaking the complex formed between the aptamer and thrombin using 2.0 M NaCl solution at 42 °C, showing its operation for different cycles. The interference response caused by main proteins in serum has been characterized.
Evaluation of a standardized protocol for thrombin generation measurement using the calibrated automated thrombogram: an international multicentre study.	The thrombin generation test (TGT) has demonstrated utility in evaluating overall hemostatic capacity both in bleeding and thrombotic disorders. Although the test is currently well accepted as a research tool, its role in clinical practice has not yet been defined through large prospective multicenter clinical studies. Such prospective studies have been limited by the lack of official standardization of the assay and its large inter-laboratory variability. This international study assessed the intra- and inter-assay imprecision of TGT as well as the inter-centre variability of results in one US and four European centres. Contact-inhibited plasmas from six healthy volunteers, one mild haemophilia A patient, and five patients with heterozygous prothrombin G20210 mutation were assayed. We demonstrated that, using identical equipement, standardized reagents, a carefully selected reference plasma for normalization of results and the same test procedure as described in our DVD, the assay variability was highly reduced compared to previously published data. Our results emphasize the importance of preheating on TGT results and the variability of the assay. In conclusion, our data demonstrated that the standardized TGT methodology evaluated in this study effectively reduces the variability of the assay to acceptable limits and may be used in clinical trials.
Turn-on fluorescence sensor based on single-walled-carbon-nanohorn-peptide complex for the detection of thrombin.	Proteases play a central role in several widespread diseases. Thus, there is a great need for the fast and sensitive detection of various proteolytic enzymes. Herein, we have developed a carbon nanotube (CNT)-based protease biosensing platform that uses peptides as a fluorescence probe for the first time. Single-walled carbon nanohorns (SWCNHs) and thrombin were used to demonstrate this detection strategy. SWCNHs can adsorb a fluorescein-based dye (FAM)-labeled peptide (FAM-pep) and quench the fluorescence of FAM. In contrast, thrombin can cleave FAM-pep on SWCNHs and recover the fluorescence of FAM, which allows the sensitive detection of thrombin. This biosensor has a high sensitivity and selectivity toward thrombin, with a detection limit of 100 pM.
Aptamer modified organic-inorganic hybrid silica monolithic capillary columns for highly selective recognition of thrombin.	A novel kind of aptamer modified organic-inorganic hybrid silica monolithic capillary column has been developed, via the covalent bonding of 5'-NH(2)-modified aptamer for human α-thrombin on hybrid silica monolith, prepared by sol-gel method, with tetraethoxysilane and 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane as precursors. Due to the large specific surface area of the hybrid matrix, the average coverage density of aptamer reached 568 pmol/μL, and the thrombin binding capacity was 1.15 μg/μL, 14 times higher than that of aptamer modified open tubular capillaries. By such an affinity capillary column, the limit of detection of thrombin was decreased to 3.4 nM with a UV detector. Furthermore, even when thrombin was mixed with 1000 times more concentrated human serum, it could be selectively enriched and detected with the signal-to-noise ratio as ca.10. These results indicate that the developed preparation strategy for aptamer based hybrid silica monolithic capillary column might provide an effective method to achieve highly selective recognition of trace targets.
Label-free aptasensor for thrombin determination based on the nanostructured phenazine mediator.	New aptasensors based on DNA aptamer and polycarboxylated thiacalix[4]arenes in cone, 1,3-alternate and partial cone configurations bearing Neutral Red (NR) at substituents at the lower rim have been developed and applied for thrombin detection. The assembly of the biorecognition layer was optimized by AFM and EIS study to reach the maximal coverage and regular composition of the surface layer. The interaction of the NR groups with thrombin suppressed the electron hopping between oxidized and reduced mediator groups. This regularly decreased the NR peak current and increased the resistance of the charge transfer. The aptasensor makes it possible to detect from 1 nM to 1 μM of thrombin with the detection limit of 0.05-0.5 nM. No effect of the 1000 excess of bovine serum albumin on the signal was observed. The influence of thiacalix[4]arene configuration on the sensitivity of aptasensor signal toward thrombin is discussed.
Research on TLC identification and anti-coagulant activity quantitatively methods of Scolopendra subspinipes mutilans]	To improve the quality standard of Scolopendra subspinipes mutilans by researching the methods of the TLC identification and anti-coagulant activity quantitatively.
Impact of moderate blast exposures on thrombin biomarkers assessed by calibrated automated thrombography in rats.	Severe blast exposures are frequently complicated with fatal intracranial hemorrhages. However, many more sustain low level blasts without tissue damage detectable by brain imaging. To investigate effects of nonlethal blast on thrombin-related biomarkers, rats were subjected to two different types of head-directed blast: 1) moderate "composite" blast with strong head acceleration or 2) moderate primary blast, without head acceleration. Thrombin generation (TG) ex vivo after blast was studied by calibrated automated thrombography (CAT). In the same blood samples, we assessed maximal concentration of TG (TGmax), start time, peak time, mean time, and concentrations of protein markers for vascular/hemostatic dysfunctions: integrin α/β, soluble endothelial selectin (sE-selectin), soluble intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2, MMP-8, and MMP-13. Blast remarkably affected all TG indices. In animals exposed to "composite" blast, TGmax peaked at 6 h (∼4.5-fold vs. control), sustained at day 1 (∼3.8-fold increase), and declined to a 2-fold increase over control at day 7 post-blast. After primary blast, TGmax also rose to ∼4.2-fold of control at 6 h, dropped to ∼1.7-fold of control at day 1, and then exhibited a slight secondary increase at 2-fold of control at day 7. Other TG indices did not differ significantly between two types of blast exposure. The changes were also observed in other microvascular/inflammatory/hemostatic biomarkers. Integrin α/β and sICAM-1 levels were elevated after both "composite" and primary blast at 6 h, 1 day, and 7 days. sE-selectin exhibited near normal levels after "composite" blast, but increased significantly at 7 days after primary blast; MMP-2, MMP-8, and MMP-13 slightly rose after "composite" blast and significantly increased (∼2-4-fold) after primary blast. In summary, CAT may have a clinical diagnostic utility in combination with selected set of microvascular/inflammatory biomarkers in patients subjected to low/moderate level blast exposures.
An affinity capture involved enzymatic assay for thrombin by using peptide aptamers as affinity ligands on magnetic beads.	Here we present a sensitive and specific assay for thrombin through the affinity capture of thrombin with mRNA display generated peptide aptamers on magnetic beads and the subsequent thrombin-involved enzymatic reaction. Thrombin at 50 fM can be detected. 
Heparin cofactor II thrombin complex as a biomarker for mucopolysaccharidosis: Indian experience.	Serum heparin cofactor II-thrombin complex (HCII-T) is an emerging biomarker for mucopolysaccharidosis disease (MPS I and MPS II).
Stimulation by dextran sulfate of denaturation of bovine thrombin.	At high thrombin concentration, loss of enzyme activity was proportional to the initial enzyme concentration. At low thrombin concentration, loss of activity followed first order kinetics, indicating mainly denaturation (inactivation) of the enzyme. Dextran sulfate stimulated thrombin denaturation, while serum albumin and polyethylene glycol 6000 (PEG) protected the enzyme from denaturation. These results indicate that the enzyme molecule is stabilized by weak interactions with albumin and PEG, but destabilized by strong interaction with dextran sulfate.
Porous platinum nanotubes labeled with hemin/G-quadruplex based electrochemical aptasensor for sensitive thrombin analysis via the cascade signal amplification.	For the first time, a sensitive electrochemical aptasensor for thrombin (TB) was developed by using porous platinum nanotubes (PtNTs) labeled with hemin/G-quadruplex and glucose dehydrogenase (GDH) as labels. Porous PtNTs with large surface area exhibited the peroxidase-like activity. Coupling with GDH and hemin/G-quadruplex as NADH oxidase and HRP-mimicking DNAzyme, the cascade signal amplification was achieved by the following ways: in the presence of glucose and NAD(+) in the working buffer, GDH electrocatalyzed the oxidation of glucose with the production of NADH. Then, hemin/G-quadruplex as NADH oxidase catalyzed the oxidation of NADH to in situ generate H2O2. Based on the corporate electrocatalysis of PtNTs and hemin/G-quadruplex toward H2O2, the electrochemical signal was significantly amplified, allowing the detection limit of TB down to 0.15 pM level. Moreover, the proposed strategy was simple because the intercalated hemin offered the readout signal, avoiding the adding of additional redox mediator as signal donator. Such an electrochemical aptasensor is highly promising for sensitive detection of other proteins in clinical diagnostics.
Women with unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss do not have evidence of an underlying prothrombotic state: experience with calibrated automated thrombography and rotational thromboelastometry.	Where unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is attributed to an underlying maternal prothrombotic state, empirical prophylactic anticoagulation may be recommended.
Coated silica supports for high-performance affinity chromatography of proteins.	Polymer-coated silica supports are potentially good stationary phases for high-performance affinity chromatographic separations of proteins. Silica beads have been coated with a polysaccharide (dextran or agarose), substituted by a calculated amount of positively charged diethylaminoethyl functions in order to neutralize the negatively charged silanol groups of silica and to facilitate the formation of a hydrophilic polymeric layer on the inorganic surface. The silica-based supports were prepared in two steps. First, the silica was impregnated with a solution of diethylaminoethylated polymer, and then the coating polymer was crosslinked in order to avoid leakage of the polymeric layer. The supports present minimal non-specific interactions with proteins, as tested by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography. These coated silica supports were coupled with active ligands, such as protein A, concanavalin A and heparin, by conventional coupling methods. The resulting affinity stationary phases were tested by the elution of proteins in order to study their performance in high-performance affinity chromatography.
Immunohistochemical localization of thrombomodulin in chorionic diseases of the uterus and choriocarcinoma of the stomach. A comparative study with the distribution of human chorionic gonadotropin.	Thrombomodulin (TM) is a newly described protein that functions as a potent natural anticoagulant by converting thrombin from a procoagulant protease to an anticoagulant. TM is found on endothelium of the blood and lymph vessels and on syncytiotrophoblast of the placenta in humans. In the current study, we localized TM by immunohistochemistry in chorionic diseases of the uterus and choriocarcinomas of the stomach. The syncytiotrophoblast of hydatidiform mole contained TM. Uterine choriocarcinoma also had TM in the neoplastic syncytiotrophoblastic cells, although some of the neoplastic syncytiotrophoblastic cells showed no TM expression. Gastric choriocarcinoma never showed TM expression in the neoplastic syncytiotrophoblastic cells. However, all of the syncytiotrophoblastic cells had human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in hydatidiform mole, uterine choriocarcinoma, and gastric choriocarcinoma.
Significance of the thrombin-antithrombin III complex in the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis--comparison with fibrinopeptide A, platelet factor 4 and beta-thromboglobulin]	In 22 patients with suspected pulmonary embolism and 19 patients with suspected deep vein thrombosis, thrombin-antithrombin III complex (TAT) as an indicator of thrombin activation was measured using a newly developed ELISA. For comparison fibrinopeptide A (FPA), as a marker of an activated coagulation, as well as platelet factor 4 (PF4), and beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG), as markers of platelet activation, were determined. In all patients in whom pulmonary embolism was confirmed by perfusion lung scan and in 15 of 16 patients in whom deep vein thrombosis was confirmed by phlebography, TAT exceeded the upper limit of normal (3.0 ng/ml). FPA was increased in 71% of the pulmonary embolism patients, PF4 in 53%, and beta-TG in 59%. The data for the patients with deep vein thrombosis were comparable. PF4 and beta-TG were increased in more than 25% of the normal controls, FPA in 17%, and TAT in 9%. TAT is very sensitive in detecting an activation of the coagulation system in patients with suspected thromboembolic events. The test, however, is not specific for thromboembolism; it only indicates an activation of the coagulation system. Acute pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis would appear to be unlikely if TAT is normal. The measurement of TAT is easier and less susceptible to disturbances than that of FPA, PF4, and beta-TG.
Nutritional determinants of haemostatic factors in the Caerphilly Study.	A study of possible nutritional determinants of certain haemostatic factors (heparin-neutralizing activity, fibrinogen and antithrombin III) was conducted in the Caerphilly cohort of 2512 men. Data on diet were obtained in a sub-sample of 665 men by a 7-d weighed dietary inventory and in the complete cohort by questionnaire. All the associations between major nutrients and haemostatic factors were weak and few achieved statistical significance. There were significant associations between two of the blood tests and total energy intake which suggests that, in general, relationships between nutritional variables and thrombosis-related factors should be standardized for total energy intake. Negative associations between alcohol, fibrinogen and antithrombin III and positive associations between fibre, polyunsaturated fat and antithrombin III are of possible clinical or public health importance. However, nutritional factors appear to explain only about 3 per cent of the variance in the distributions of the haemostatic factors examined. The extent to which uncertainties in the measurement of dietary intake will have led to the underestimate of the true association is, of course, unknown. At the same time it is of relevance that in similar studies of dietary determinants of plasma cholesterol only about 3 per cent of the variance of cholesterol levels can be explained.
Cross-linking of alpha and gamma-thrombin to distinct binding sites on human platelets.	The interaction of thrombin with proteins at the platelet surface was assessed by chemical cross-linking with the membrane-impermeable reagents bis(sulphosuccinimidyl)suberate and dithiobis(sulphosuccinimidyl propionate) under conditions which induced no modification of intracellular proteins and minimal cross-linking of membrane glycoproteins. The proteins covalently linked to 125I-labelled alpha and gamma-thrombin were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and crossed immunoelectrophoresis. 125I-alpha-thrombin was detected in high-molecular-mass complexes (a) at the top of a 3% acrylamide stacking gel and (b) with a Mr approximately equal to 400,000. In addition, two complexes of 240 kDa and 78 kDa were characterized. Hirudin prevented the formation of each of these complexes. The 78-kDa complex occurred spontaneously in the absence of bifunctional reagents, was only observed with active alpha-thrombin and was not dissociated by hirudin. Such characteristics are similar to those of a serpin serine-protease complex. The 240-kDa complex was formed with 0.8-100 nM alpha-thrombin, was observed after a short incubation time (30 s) and occurred with TosLysCH2Cl-inactivated alpha-thrombin. After analysis of Triton-X-100-soluble extracts of cross-linked platelets by crossed immunoelectrophoresis against a rabbit antiserum to platelets, two principal precipitates contained 125I-alpha-thrombin. These were a precipitate containing GPIIb-IIIa complexes and a precipitate in the position of GPIb. Indirect immunoprecipitation of GPIb, using a murine monoclonal antibody, confirmed it to be the major platelet component in the 240-kDa complex. Significantly, 125I-gamma-thrombin, which activates platelets with a prolonged lag phase, failed to bind to GPIb and complexes in the 240-kDa and 78-kDa molecular mass range were not observed. We conclude that several binding sites for alpha-thrombin are present at the platelet surface, and that GPIb is one of them. The studies with gamma-thrombin suggest that binding to GPIb is not obligatory for platelet activation although it could be involved in an initial step of the platelet response.
Improved method for the immobilization of heparin.	The optimal conditions for immobilizing heparin through its terminal formyl group were investigated. When Amino Sepharose (1 g) was suspended in 1 ml of phosphate buffer (pH 7) containing 30 mg of heparin and 3 mg of sodium cyanoborohydride, with shaking at room temperature, the maximum immobilization of heparin (10 mg of heparin per gram of wet gel) was reached within 2 days. The Heparin Sepharose thus obtained was stable: no significant loss of the heparin content was observed after storage for 4 months at 4 degrees C. Heparin was also immobilized by the same method with Amino TSK gel G5000PW instead of Amino Sepharose 4B and was successfully applied to the high-performance liquid affinity chromatography of fibronectin and thrombin.
A simple spectrophotometric method for the determination of thrombin activity.	The activity of thrombin in commercial preparations was measured by an easy, precise spectrophotometric method that allows determination of thrombin activity in dilute solutions more accurately than other methods hitherto used. The method can also be used to compare fibrinogen content in plasma samples.
Experience with chromogenic substrates in studies of clotting and fibrinolytic systems.	Experiences in the application of chromogenic substrates for the evaluation of clotting variables are reported. The use of a special buffer system enables the determination of factor Xa by the thrombin substrate Chromozym TH. Prothrombin in plasma can be determined using the substrate S-2238 after activation with factor Xa or Ecarin. Factor VII is activated with thromboplastin and is estimated indirectly via factor Xa activity. Comparison of the amidolytic method for factor VII with prothrombin times of patients on oral anticoagulants shows good correlation. Chromogenic substrates can be also used for determining platelet factor 3 (S-2238), plasminogen and alpha 2-antiplasmin.
Simultaneous determination of zymogen activation time and zymogen level using chromogenic substrates in blood coagulation analysis]	The amidolytic activities of plasma generated by means of thromboplastin and Ca++, on the one hand, and by means of partial thromboplastin, a contact activator and Ca++, on the other hand, were determined using synthetic, chromogenic factor Xa substrates with low affinity for thrombin (CH3SO2-D-Leu-Gly-Arg-pNA and CH3SO2-D-Nleu-Gly-Arg-pNA). In this way, the activation process by splitting off the p-nitroaniline was followed. Besides the summary detection of factor Xa was obtained after addition of hirudin. During preincubation with partial thromboplastin and contact acti (Actin) in Ca++-free medium, an amidolytic activity so far unidentified was generated that renders evaluation of the activation process difficult. In the test system with partial thromboplastin, factor Xa could not be determined and the thrombin-like activity that can be inhibited by hirudin did not correspond to the amount of prothrombin present in plasma. In contrast, activation of factor X and prothrombin by thromboplastin and Ca++ could be followed and the content of the two zymogenes could be detected simultaneously. In general, under optimized reaction conditions, automated systems might be developed that would provide additional diagnostic information about determination of clotting time, on the one hand, and about quantitative determination of zymogen, on the other hand.
Molar antithrombin concentration in normal human plasma.	Crude, commercial thrombin preparations and purified bovine thrombin were incubated with normal human reference plasma and the amount of thrombin inactivated was calculated. 1 ml of human plasma inactivated 140-193 NIH U of the various crude thrombin preparations. In the presence of heparin, a lower thrombin-inactivating capacity of plasma was confirmed using crude thrombin, but this phenomenon was less pronounced with the purified thrombin preparation. The molar concentration of the purified bovine thrombin was determined by active site titration. Comparing with protein concentration (A280), this preparation was 92% pure. 1 ml of human plasma inactivated 2.57 mumol of thrombin in the absence of heparin, and 2.50 mumol with heparin. Assuming 1:1 stoichiometry in the thrombin-antithrombin reaction, these results suggest that the concentration of antithrombin in the pooled reference plasma is approximately 2.57 mumol/l or 0.15 g/l.
Optimizing the fibrinogen-thrombin adhesive system]	It was the aim of the present three series of investigations to determine conditions to improve the firmness of the clot produced by the fibrinogen-thrombin adhesive system. For methodological reasons the compressive strength and adhesive power of the clot, as well as the probability of a relation between deformation energy and tensile strength were examined. Furthermore, the influence of fibrinolysis on the effects of the adhesive system was investigated. The following factors proved to be relevant for the firmness of the clot: 1. Concentration of fibrinogen, 2. concentration of thrombin, 3. relation between volume of fibrinogen and of thrombin solution, 4. time of diffusion of constituents of mixture, 5. addition of blood-clotting factor XIII and solution of calcium ions. The following optimum concentrations of components of the adhesive system per ml of the mixture were established in the course of the investigations: Fibrinogen solution (approx. 10% clottable material) 0.86 ml Thrombin 100 E. Factor XIII 90 E. = 30 mg Ca++ 250 mMol A volume ratio of 6 parts of fibrinogen as cryoprecipitate to 1 part of a solution containing thrombin, factor XIII and calcium ions proved optimal for the preparation of the mixture.
Amidolytic assay of thrombin bound to alpha2-macroglobulin in plasma.	A method for the determination in plasma of alpha2-macroglogulin-bound thrombin is described. Alpha2-Macroglobulin-bound thrombin is precipitated from plasma by 13% polyethyleneglycol, and its amidolytic activity is assayed by using the chromogenic substrate benzoyl-Phe-Val-Arg-p-nitroanilide (S 2160). After thrombin addition to plasma, only about 1.7% of the added thrombin activity was recovered in the alpha2-macro-globulin precipitate. It is suggested that the contribution of alpha2-macroglobulin to anti-thrombin activity of normal plasma is of little relevance.
Clot retraction in a factor XIII free system.	The role of Factor XIII in clot retraction was studied using the plasma from Factor XIII-deficient patients. Time course experiments revealed no significant difference in clot retraction between a plasma deficient in Factor XIII and one to which purified Factor XIII had been added. Using Factor XIII-free fibrinogen and Factor XIII-deficient platelets, it is shown that there is no significant difference in clot retraction with or without added Factor XIII.
Cellular localization of enzymatically active thrombin in intact human tissues by hirudin binding.	Cellular sites of coagulation activation within complex, intact tissues have been studied by immunohistochemical techniques. Hirudin, a specific and high affinity inhibitor of the active site of thrombin, together with antibody to hirudin were applied to sections of AMeX-fixed specimens of normal lung, kidney, placenta, freshly incised skin and unperturbed skin obtained at fresh autopsy; to rheumatoid synovial tissue; and to malignant tissue from a variety of tumor types. Staining for thrombin was observed selectively on pulmonary alveolar, rheumatoid synovial, and placental macrophages that express an intact extrinsic coagulation pathway. Staining was also observed restricted to the endothelium of capillaries in freshly incised skin but not in either unperturbed skin or in aged incisions. Staining of tumor cell bodies was observed in small cell carcinoma of the lung, renal cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma tissues that we found previously to show tumor cell-associated procoagulant activity. This staining occurred commonly on cells within the tumor mass that were distant from stromal fibrinogen/fibrin. By contrast, tumor-associated macrophage but not tumor cell staining was seen in adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the lung, and little or no staining was seen colon cancer tissue. Negative controls in which either the hirudin probe or its antibody were omitted failed to show staining. These results are in accord with previous findings and suggest that such techniques may be useful for studying the cellular sites of thrombin generation in intact tissues. We postulate that administration of potent and specific thrombin antagonists, such as hirudin, to patients with relevant tumor types might be followed by homing of hirudin to tumor cells in vivo so that effects of local thrombin generation on malignant progression can be determined.
Test method for the absence of active clotting factors in dried human blood coagulation factor IX complex.	Adverse effects possibly due to the active clotting factors are sometimes reported upon administration of some preparations of Factor IX complex having conformed to the specifications in the Japanese Minimum Requirements for Biological Products. The author, therefore, proposed the revision of the test method for the absence of active clotting factors in the Minimum Requirements by introducing calcium ion into the test medium.
Effects on coagulation and fibrinolysis with reduced versus full systemic heparinization and heparin-coated cardiopulmonary bypass.	Extracorporeal circulation with circuits coated with surface-bound heparin has allowed reduced levels of systemic heparinization. Clinical benefits have included reduced postoperative bleeding and less homologous blood usage. However, the effects on the hemostatic and fibrinolytic systems have remained in part unknown.
Extravascular proteolysis and the nervous system: serine protease/serpin balance.	Widely recognized as components of the blood coagulation cascade, serine proteases and their natural inhibitors, specific serpins known as the protease nexins, also regulate the maintenance of normal function in the nervous system. Increasingly, evidence has accumulated as to regulation of their synthesis and functional roles within both the CNS and peripheral nervous system. Our review focuses on the localization and activity of TH and PN I in the nervous system, as well as on the impact of the protease/inhibitor balance for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as AD.
Inhibitory effects of TFPI variants on thrombin and factor Xa generation in fibrinogen-deficient human plasma.	Using a fast kinetic centrifugal analyzer, the inhibitory effects of glycosylated and unglycosylated full-length and truncated forms of TFPI on protease generation were studied in fibrinogen-deficient human plasma after extrinsic (EA) or intrinsic (IA) activation of coagulation. When the assay system was supplemented with increasing amounts of the TFPI variants the generation of both thrombin and factor Xa was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner. Clear differences in the effectiveness of the TFPI variants were found. After EA, the unglycosylated full-length TFPI was most effective followed by the glycosylated full-length form. The C-terminal truncated TFPI showed the lowest inhibitory activity in this system. However, its efficiency increased several fold when coagulation was activated via the intrinsic pathway. Comparing the IC50 values after IA, the truncated TFPI was more effective than the unglycosylated full-length form and nearly as effective as the glycosylated full-length TFPI. After both EA and IA the thrombin generation inhibition by TFPI variants was more pronounced than the inhibition of factor Xa generation. The results show that chemical modifications of the TFPI structure can result in changes of TFPI's inhibitory properties to activated clotting factors leading to differences in protease generation inhibition.
Impaired fibrin formation in advanced cirrhosis.	The process of fibrin formation was systematically in 25 patients with severe alcoholic cirrhosis. Results of functional tests are reported. A significant lengthening of the thrombin time was found which could not be completely attributed either to hypofibrinogenaemia or to an increase in physiological anticoagulants or to the presence of pathological antithrombins. A defect in fibrin polymerization was seen in the absence of significant levels of antipolymerizing agents. Indirect evidence pointed to an abnormal fibrinogen function. This was mainly suggested by the "polymerization curves" of mixtures of normal and pathological plasmas and the changes in physico-chemical properties of the clot (optical and elastic properties; tensile strength). Altered synthesis in hepatocytes may lead to an "acquired dysfibrinogenaemia" in the late stages of liver cirrhosis, although alteration of a normal fibrinogen molecule after secretion cannot be definitely excluded.
A target of thrombin activation promotes cell cycle re-entry by urodele muscle cells.	A key early event of newt limb regeneration is the local dedifferentiation of cells to form dividing progenitor cells. This involves the plasticity of differentiation and the ability to re-enter the cell cycle. In culture, differentiated newt myotubes are able to re-enter S-phase in response to serum stimulation. Here, we analyzed the intracellular and extracellular requirements for this process. Cell cycle re-entry depends on the phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein, which is a key regulator of the G1-S transition. This is in contrast to mammalian myotubes, which are refractory to serum stimulation and cannot phosphorylate retinoblastoma protein in response to serum. The serum factor responsible for this phosphorylation appears to be distinct from common polypeptide growth factors and is enriched in crude preparations of bovine thrombin. Fractionation and analysis of this preparation indicate that the factor is regulated by thrombin and plasmin proteolysis. These results indicate that factors involved in acute responses to wounding such as clotting may be important initiators of the regenerative response.
Dynamics of clot growth induced by thrombin diffusing into nonstirred citrate human plasma.	The dynamics of clot formation was studied in a two-compartment chamber designed to allow free diffusion of thrombin according to its concentration gradient into nonstirred citrate plasma or fibrinogen solution. Fibrin clots in fibrinogen solutions increased progressively until the substrate was depleted. In plasma, the clot weight dynamics significantly depended on the concentration of thrombin in the thrombin compartment. When the thrombin concentrations were extremely low (25-40 nM), the clot weight increased throughout the experiment (sometimes 20-24 h). At higher thrombin concentrations, the clot weight increased for 1-2 h and then stopped growing for the following 3-4 h. The clot weight observed at the plateau varied only slightly in the range of thrombin concentrations of 50-770 nM. In this range, high thrombin concentrations (250-770 nM) caused a second increase in the clot weight 4-8 h after the start of diffusion, which was followed by the second plateau in the curve of clot weight against time. The time to the plateau and the plateau duration decreased with increasing thrombin concentrations. The abundant plasma inhibitors of thrombin cannot account for these results. It was hypothesized that an as yet unknown mechanism is responsible for the inhibition of clot growth.
Chromatography of thrombin and antithrombin III on biospecific silochromes]	It was shown that the seaweed sulfopolysaccharides Furcellaria and Phyllophora--furcellaran and phyllophoran--are the competitive inhibitors of thrombin-induced fibrinogen clotting. Biospecific adsorbents for thrombin and antithrombin III (AT III) isolation were synthesized with heparin, phyllophoran and furcellaran as ligands on aminopropylsilochrome and this proteins sorption characteristics on this sorbents in comparisons with heparin-cellulose and heparin-sepharose were investigated. Possible application of the synthesized adsorbents both for thrombin, AT III purification from blood products and for alpha-thrombin, beta and gamma-thrombin separation are discussed.
Markers of hemostatic activation in the coronary sinus versus peripheral circulation in coronary artery disease. Effects of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty]	To evaluate haemostatic changes in coronary sinus (CS) and peripheral circulation (PC) in patients with cardiovascular disease (CAD) following PTCA.
Fibrinogenolytic activity of a novel trypsin-like enzyme found in human airway.	Previously we isolated a new trypsin-like enzyme designated human airway trypsin-like protease (HAT) from human sputum. In this study, we examined in vitro whether HAT was related to the prevention of fibrin deposition in the airway lumen by cleaving fibrinogen. In mucoid sputum samples from patients with chronic airway diseases, the concentration of fibrinogen, as measured by ELISA, was in the range of 2-20 micrograms/ml, and trypsin-like activity, as measured by spectrofluorometry was in the range of 10-50 milliunits (mU)/ml. We showed by gel filtration that the trypsin-like activity of mucoid sputum was mainly due to HAT. We examined the effects of HAT on human fibrinogen at pH 7.4 and 8.6. Fibrinogen was used at concentrations of 4-2,000 micrograms/ml and HAT purified from sputum at concentrations of 0.6-10 mU/ml. As shown by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, HAT cleaved fibrinogen, especially its alpha-chain, regardless of the concentration of fibrinogen. Pretreatment of fibrinogen with HAT resulted in a decrease or complete loss of its thrombin-induced clotting capacity, depending on the duration of pretreatment with HAT and the concentration of HAT. From these results we postulated that HAT may participate in the anticoagulation process within the airway, especially at the level of the mucous membrane, by cleaving fibrinogen transported from the blood stream.
