Thrombopoietin has a primary role in the regulation of platelet production in preterm babies.	Thrombocytopenia in the first days of life, in association with evidence of reduced megakaryocytopoiesis and platelet production at birth, is common in sick preterm babies. Thrombopoietin (Tpo) is the major regulator of platelet production in adults. However, these babies have low Tpo levels at birth, suggesting that the Tpo response to thrombocytopenia may be impaired. To test this hypothesis we 1) measured Tpo levels, 2) measured circulating megakaryocyte progenitors serially over the first 12 d of life in 13 preterm babies with early onset thrombocytopenia and in 14 control babies with evidence of normal megakaryocytopoiesis, and 3) measured Tpo levels in thrombocytopenic children (n = 13). In control babies, platelet counts and progenitor numbers remained normal and Tpo levels were consistently low-d 1:160+/-23 pg/mL (mean+/-SEM), d 4/5: 154+/-18 pg/mL and d 12: 150+/-58 pg/mL. In thrombocytopenic babies, platelet counts and megakaryocyte progenitor numbers were significantly lower than controls at d 1: platelets 130+/-14 x 10(9)/L versus 255+/-20 x 10(9)/L (p < 0.001) and megakaryocyte progenitors 552 versus 3907 colonies/mL (mean, p < 0.001), and fell further to nadir on d 4/5: platelets 76+/-6 X 10(9)/L versus 259+/-21 x 10(9)/L (p < 0.001) and MK progenitors 479 versus 2742 colonies/mL (p < 0.05). Tpo levels were only slightly raised on d 1:247+/-52 pg/mL (p = 0.24), but then rose sharply by d 4/5: 425+/-75 pg/mL (p < 0.001). By d 12, platelet count, megakaryocyte progenitors and Tpo level (145+/-29 pg/mL) had returned to control levels. Tpo levels at platelet nadir in thrombocytopenic babies were significantly lower than in thrombocytopenic children: mean 425 versus 1383 pg/mL (p < 0.001). These data show that Tpo is important in platelet homeostasis in preterm babies, with a close reciprocal relationship with platelet count and progenitor numbers during thrombocytopenia. However, the increase in Tpo levels seen in these babies was modest, despite significantly impaired megakaryocytopoiesis, and when compared with that seen in children with thrombocytopenia. This offers further evidence that preterm babies have an impaired Tpo response to thrombocytopenia and suggests that recombinant human Tpo may have a role in the prevention/treatment of preterm thrombocytopenia.
Usefulness of thrombopoietin in the diagnosis of peripheral thrombocytopenias.	Thrombocytopenia of peripheral origin is basically due to platelet destruction or splenic sequestration. Thrombopoietin (TPO) regulates platelet production stimulating megakaryocyte proliferation and maturation. The evaluation of TPO levels may be a useful tool in the diagnosis of thrombocytopenias of unknown origin. We tried to determine the value of TPO levels in some thrombocytopenias classically considered as peripheral.
Rapid phenotyping of HPA-1a using either diabody-based hemagglutination or recombinant IgG1-based assays.	The HPA-1 system is carried on the beta3 integrin. HPA-1a (Zw(a), Pl(A1)) is immunogenic in an HPA-1b homozygote (HPA-1b1b). In pregnancy, 1 of 365 women forms anti-HPA-1a, which causes severe thrombocytopenia in 1 in 1100 neonates. Identification of women at risk of forming anti-HPA-1a and the screening of donors to obtain HPA-1a-negative platelets for therapy need reliable, low-cost, automated assays.
A new volumetric evaluation of partial splenic embolization for hypersplenism in biliary atresia.	Partial splenic embolization (PSE) has become an important therapeutic modality in the management of hypersplenism in biliary atresia (BA). Fifty percent to 80% of spleen is usually devascularized by embolization. The functional outcome, however, has not been correlated with embolized volume of the spleen. The authors propose a new, reliable method of predicting functional outcome using nonembolized volume of the spleen (NEVS) as an index.
Human platelet antigen-1a antibodies induce the release of the chemokine RANTES from human platelets.	Binding of human platelet antigen-1a (HPA-1a)-specific antibodies to target platelets can trigger platelet activation and mediator release. Here we tested the effect of HPA-1a antibody-containing sera on platelet release of the chemokine RANTES (regulated on activation, normal, T-cell expressed, and presumably secreted) in vitro.
Thrombocytopenia in a mouse model of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis.	Despite its apparently strict granulocytotropism, thrombocytopenia is a consistent hallmark of infection with the agent of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE), regardless of host species. Laboratory mice are valuable models of HGE agent infection kinetics and immunity, but initial studies of HGE infection in mouse models have failed to demonstrate thrombocytopenia. More thorough analysis of platelet kinetics, however, reveals a consistent and rapid, marked decrease (50% decline by day 2-4 after infection) in circulating platelet number in both C3H/HeN and C57BL/6J mice during infection with the HGE agent. The roles of splenic consumption and immune-mediated destruction were evaluated as potential mechanisms of the thrombocytopenia. Both splenectomized mice and mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (lacking B and T lymphocytes) became similarly thrombocytopenic in response to infection with the HGE agent. This study validates the appropriateness of the mouse as a model of HGE, including its usefulness for the investigation of thrombocytopenia.
Frequency of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in critical care patients.	The diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) in critically ill patients is complicated by lack of information on the frequency of HIT relative to thrombocytopenia from other causes. In addition, results from HIT diagnostic tests have not been clearly evaluated for clinical utility. In this prospective study, we estimated the frequency of HIT and the predictive performance of the heparin-platelet factor 4 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (heparin-PF4 ELISA) in 748 consecutive, heparin-treated patients in a combined intensive and coronary care unit. The criteria for diagnosis were as follows: two or more consecutive platelet counts below 150 x 10(3)/mm3 or a 33% or greater decrease in platelet count 5 or more days after beginning heparin, or any time after starting heparin for patients exposed to the agent within the previous 8 weeks; and a positive 14C-serotonin release assay (SRA), the reference standard. Specificity and predictive values for the heparin-PF4 ELISA were estimated in patients who met the clinical criteria for HIT. Of 748 patients, 267 were exposed to heparin for a sufficient length of time to be considered to be at risk for HIT. Forty of these patients (15.0%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 10.7%-19.3%) met the clinical criteria for HIT. Serum samples were available for 32 of these patients, one of whom tested positive by the SRA, yielding a HIT frequency of 0.39% (95% CI 0.01-2.1%). The specificity of the heparin-PF4 ELISA among thrombocytopenic patients with negative SRA results was 71%, and the positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive values of this test were estimated to be 10% and 100%, respectively. The point estimate of the frequency of HIT in critically ill patients was less than 1% in this cohort. The low PPV and high NPV of the heparin-PF4 ELISA suggest that it can be used to exclude HIT as a cause of thrombocytopenia in this patient population.
Increased local procoagulant action: a mechanism contributing to the favorable hemostatic effect of recombinant FVIIa in PLT disorders.	Recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa) has been shown to improve hemostasis in patients with thrombocytopenia and to prevent or control bleeding episodes in patients with inherited deficiencies of major PLT glycoproteins, but the mechanism of action is not well understood.
Serum cytokine profiles in patients with Plasmodium vivax malaria: a comparison between those who presented with and without thrombocytopenia.	One of the peculiar features of Plasmodium vivax malaria in South Korea is the surprisingly high frequency of thrombocytopenia. The mechanism by which this malaria-related thrombocytopenia develops and its role in the pathology and progress of human infection with P. vivax have not yet been completely understood. In the present study, the serum cytokine profiles of cases of P. vivax malaria who presented with thrombocytopenia were compared with those of similar cases who did not have thrombocytopenia at presentation. The subjects were the 94 consecutive cases of P. vivax malaria who presented at five hospitals in South Korea (all near the Demilitarized Zone) between May 2000 and October 2002, 47 of whom had thrombocytopenia at presentation. When mean values and (S.E.) were compared, the thrombocytopenic patients were found not only to be generally older than the non-thrombocytopenic [25.3 (1.1) v. 21.3 (0.18) years; P < 0.001] but also to have presented with higher serum concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase [77.6 (16.6) v. 32.3 (7.4) U/litre; P < 0.0001], alanine aminotransferase [96.7 (19.0) v. 44.7 (12.0) U/litre; P = 0.0001], interleukin-1 [49.9 (7.4) v. 23.7 (5.1) pg/ml; P < 0.001], interleukin-6 [174.9 (26.4) v. 57.3 (14.6) pg/ml; P = 0.001], interleukin-10 [308.2 (39.6) v. 137.9 (23.1) pg/ml; P < 0.002] and transforming growth factor-beta [1134.3 (387.5) v. 416.6 (183.8) pg/ml; P < 0.0001], and higher levels of parasitaemia [4345.7 (966.6) v. 1443.8 (222.7) parasites/microl; P = 0.03). The non-thrombocytopenic patients, however, had relatively high total leucocyte counts [5.8 (0.24) v. 5.4 (0.66) leucocytes/nl; P = 0.03]. The thrombocytopenia associated with P. vivax malaria in South Korea therefore appears to be associated with elevated serum concentrations of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. To define the role of each cytokine in the development of thrombocytopenia during the course of acute P. vivax malaria, further prospective studies are needed.
Impaired in vitro growth of purified (CD34+) hematopoietic progenitors in human immunodeficiency virus-1 seropositive thrombocytopenic individuals.	In this report the role played by human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) in the pathogenesis of HIV-1-related thrombocytopenia was investigated. CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells were purified from the bone marrow (BM) of HIV-1(+) thrombocytopenic patients, HIV-1(+) nonthrombocytopenic individuals, HIV-1(-) patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura, and HIV-1(-) normal donors. CD34+ cells from HIV-1(+) thrombocytopenic individuals alone showed a reduced capacity to give rise to megakaryocytic colonies (CFU-Meg) and also a progressive and significant decline in cell number when placed in liquid culture containing recombinant human interleukin-3 (rIL-3). This decline involved not only megakaryocyte but also erythroid and granulocyte/macrophage progenitors. The defects in megakaryocyte colony formation and CD34+ cell growth did not result from a productive HIV-1 infection of CD34+ cells. Moreover, HIV-1 DNA was absent from CD34+ cells in 10 of 12 thrombocytopenic patients examined. On the other hand, the decreased survival/proliferation of CD34+ cells in liquid culture, within the HIV-1(+) thrombocytopenic patients, was correlated with the presence of HIV-1 p24 antigen in BM plasma. These results demonstrate an impairment of CD34+ cells in HIV-1(+) individuals presenting thrombocytopenia as the only hematologic manifestation. Furthermore, these findings suggest that increased viral replication in the BM microenvironment may cause this impairment and possibly contributes to HIV-induced thrombocytopenia.
B-cell subsets and platelet counts in HIV-1 seropositive subjects.	A subset of B lymphocytes positive for the CD5 antigen have been implicated in several autoimmune disorders. To investigate their role in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, we studied peripheral-blood B and T lymphocytes from HIV-1-positive patients with (n = 13) and without (n = 18) thrombocytopenia, 8 patients with classic autoimmune thrombocytopenia, and 16 healthy controls. The proportion of CD5-positive B cells was significantly higher in the HIV-1-positive thrombocytopenic patients than in the healthy controls, as a result of both higher numbers of CD5-positive B cells and lower numbers of CD5-negative B cells. Platelet count was positively correlated with CD5-negative B-cell count (r = 0.6, p less than 0.001) and negatively correlated with proportion of B cells that were CD5 positive (r = -0.5, p less than 0.01) among the HIV-1-positive patients. The high concentrations of IgM-containing immune complexes in HIV-1-positive patients with autoimmune disorders may be due to changes in the CD5-positive B-cell subset.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome after cardiac surgery.	A case report of multisystem organ failure and limb loss associated with coronary artery bypass is reported. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome (HITTS) occurs in 1% to 2% of patients suffering from thrombocytopenia associated with heparin or heparinoid use, which amounts to less than 1.4% of the cardiac surgical population. It carries a risk of significant comorbidity and mortality. Providers involved in the care of such patients should be well versed in the etiology and potential complications of HITTS, the treatment options, and alternative modalities of anticoagulation available for use.
Comparison of manual and automated methods for determining platelet counts in dogs with macrothrombocytopenia.	Platelet counts were performed in 43 Cavalier King Charles Spaniels (CKCS, a breed predisposed to macrothrombocytopenia) and in 10 control dogs using 3 automated systems and 3 manual methods (erythrocyte-lysing agents + counting chamber or evaluation of blood smear). Good correlations were found between platelet counts using all methods (all P < 0.0001; R2 = 0.71-0.85). Best correlations were found between the manual methods. Significantly larger platelets were found in CKCS with platelet count < or = 100,000/microl when compared with control dogs and CKCS with platelet count > 100,000/microl (both P < 0.0001). All platelet counts--except when made with the 2 counting chamber methods--were underestimated at platelet counts < or = 100,000/microl.
Analysis of factors contributing to higher erythropoietin levels in patients with chronic liver disease.	Dysregulated erythropoietin (EPO) plasma levels may play a role in the pathophysiology of chronic liver disease (CLD) because chronic anaemia is frequently observed in patients with liver cirrhosis. We aimed to identify the factors contributing to EPO regulation in patients with CLD.
The concentration of circulating megakaryocyte progenitors in preterm neonates is a function of post-conceptional age.	Circulating megakaryocyte (Mk) progenitors have been used as a measure of megakaryocytopoiesis in neonates. Prior studies have shown a gestational age-dependent decrease in their concentration, but it is unclear how this process continues after birth in preterm neonates. To answer this question, we quantified the Mk progenitors in the blood of 42 neonates of varying post-conceptional ages (gestational age+days of life). We found an inverse relationship between concentration of circulating Mk progenitors and post-conceptional age (r=-0.54, p=0.0002).
Lonely in Paris: when one gene copy isn't enough.	Circulating platelets are continually replenished by fragmentation of terminally differentiated megakaryocytes. Processes disrupted in inherited thrombocytopenias frequently shed light on normal thrombopoietic mechanisms. An especially rare condition called Paris-Trousseau syndrome (PTS) seems to occur by virtue of hemizygous loss of the FLI1 transcription factor gene. Provocative new data suggest that FLI1 shows monoallelic expression during a brief window in megakaryocyte differentiation, which thus explains the dominant inheritance pattern of PTS despite the presence of one normal FLI1 allele.
FLI1 monoallelic expression combined with its hemizygous loss underlies Paris-Trousseau/Jacobsen thrombopenia.	Paris-Trousseau syndrome (PTS; also known as Jacobsen syndrome) is characterized by several congenital anomalies including a dysmegakaryopoiesis with two morphologically distinct populations of megakaryocytes (MKs). PTS patients harbor deletions on the long arm of chromosome 11, including the FLI1 gene, which encodes a transcription factor essential for megakaryopoiesis. We show here that lentivirus-mediated overexpression of FLI1 in patient CD34(+) cells restores the megakaryopoiesis in vitro, indicating that FLI1 hemizygous deletion contributes to the PTS hematopoietic defects. FISH analysis on pre-mRNA and single-cell RT-PCR revealed that FLI1 expression is mainly monoallelic in CD41(+)CD42(-) progenitors, while it is predominantly biallelic in the other stages of megakaryopoiesis. In PTS cells, the hemizygous deletion of FLI1 generates a subpopulation of CD41(+)CD42(-) cells completely lacking FLI1 transcription. We propose that the absence of FLI1 expression in these CD41(+)CD42(-) cells might prevent their differentiation, which could explain the segregation of the PTS MKs into two subpopulations: one normal and one composed of small immature MKs undergoing a massive lysis, presumably originating from either FLI1(+) or FLI1(-) CD41(+)CD42(-) cells, respectively. Thus, we point to the role of transient monoallelic expression of a gene essential for differentiation in the genesis of human haploinsufficiency-associated disease and suggest that such a mechanism may be involved in the pathogenesis of other congenital or acquired genetic diseases.
Reticulated platelets as a marker of megakaryopoiesis in liver cirrhosis; relation to thrombopoietin and hepatocyte growth factor serum concentration.	Thrombocytopenia often accompanies chronic liver diseases. It can occur due to the decrease in blood platelet production by megakaryocytes, the increase in peripheral destruction, or splenic sequestration.
Relationship between platelet count and bleeding risk in thrombocytopenic patients.	Platelets are lost from circulation by 2 mechanisms: senescence and random loss. Approximately 7.1 x 10(3) platelets/microL/d are postulated to be randomly used in maintaining vascular integrity. Thus, in clinically stable patients, major bleeding is unusual unless the platelet count is </=5 x 10(3)/microL. Risk factors for bleeding at higher platelet counts are disseminated intravascular coagulation with contributory clotting factor deficiencies, structural lesions with loss of vascular integrity, and refractoriness to platelet transfusions. Several large studies have documented the safety of lowering the prophylactic platelet transfusion trigger from the previously used 20 x 10(3)/microL to 10 x 10(3)/microL. A few studies have even suggested that a 5 x 10(3)/microL trigger is acceptable. Based on these results, the next step of giving just therapeutic platelet transfusions is being evaluated. In a large retrospective study, the most significant predictor of bleeding was not the patient's platelet count but a history of bleeding in the prior 5 days. These data suggest that attention should be focused on providing aggressive platelet therapy for active bleeding rather than transfusing platelets prophylactically. Therapeutic platelet transfusions have been documented to control bleeding, and mortality rates are not increased when comparing patients receiving therapeutic to that seen in patients receiving prophylactic platelet transfusions.
A case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with sepsis and congestive heart failure--first autopsy report on Japan--.	An 84-year-old man was referred to the emergency department with severe dyspnea. Based on his physical findings, electrocardiogram, X-ray and echocardiographic findings, congestive heart failure was suspected and drip infusion of prophylactic heparin against intracardiac thrombosis was commenced together with dopamine, nitroglycerin and furosemide. Diuresis occurred and the pulmonary congestion ameliorated remarkably. Starting on the 20th hospital day, the platelet count was gradually reduced (from 256,000 to 55,000 /microl) and the fibrin degradation product concentration rose (27.6 microg/ml). However, prothrombin time was not prolonged (89%), the concentration of antithrombin III was low -normal (69%) and the fibrinogen concentration was high (650 mg/dl). Thus, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), rather than disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), was suspected. Heparin was withdrawn on the 24th hospital day and replaced by nafamostat mesilate after which the platelet count was restored to 100,000 /microl. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for HIT antibodies was positive. Unfortunately, the patient died from uncontrolled sepsis on the 29th hospital day. At autopsy, platelet-rich thrombi were found in the small pulmonary arteries and intestinal arteries. No evidence of DIC, such as fibrin-rich thrombosis, was observed. This is the first autopsy report of HIT in Japan.
Platelet count, previous infection and FCGR2B genotype predict development of chronic disease in newly diagnosed idiopathic thrombocytopenia in childhood: results of a prospective study.	About 25-30% of children with acute idiopathic thrombocytopenia (ITP) develop chronic disease. It is not well known which patient characteristics influence the course of the ITP. A prospective study in 60 children with newly diagnosed ITP was performed. The aim of the study was to identify patient characteristics at the onset of thrombocytopenia that predicts the progression to chronic ITP. Clinical data and blood samples were collected at several time points during the first 6 months of the disease. Variables predicting chronic disease, as calculated in a multivariate logistic regression analysis, were a platelet count >10 x 10(9)/l at the onset [odds ratio (OR) 1.1, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01-1.14], the absence of infection shortly before the onset of the disease (OR 4.8, CI 1.16-19.57) and FGR2B-232I/T genotype (OR 7.9, CI 0.96-65.27). The latter may point at an immune-modulating role of Fc gamma RIIb in ITP. Although only three patients had serious bleeds, 35 patients received immune-modulating treatment for low platelet counts only. Seventeen patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and 18 patients received corticosteroids. Patient variables did not differ between these treatment groups. However, patients receiving IVIG had significantly lower risk for chronic disease.
Clinical and molecular-biological study of a May-Hegglin anomaly family]	To study the changes of platelet in May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA) and the molecular pathogenesis mechanism.
Polymorphonuclear leukocyte and monocyte activation induced by plasma from patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in whole blood.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), a severe complication of heparin therapy, results from platelet activation by heparin-dependent antibodies. Previously, we have shown that plasma from patients with HIT (HIT plasma) induces leukocyteplatelet aggregation in blood. In this report, we examined leukocyte activation by HIT plasma and the contribution of heparin and platelets to this activation, in whole blood. Degranulation of leukocytes from HIT patients was evaluated as a leukocyte activation marker. We showed that polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and monocytes were the leukocyte subpopulations involved in platelet-leukocyte aggregation induced by HIT plasma in healthy donor blood. PMN and monocyte activation, reflected by increased surface expression of the CD11b adhesion molecule, was induced by HIT plasma in a heparin-dependent manner. The CD11b increase induced by HIT plasma was observed on PMN only when they were associated with platelets. Moreover, the increased CD11b expression on monocytes and PMN correlated strongly with the degree of platelet adhesion to these cells. Degranulation of leukocytes from HIT patients and control subjects (non-HIT heparin-treated patients and healthy subjects) was evaluated in vivo by measuring the plasma myeloperoxidase concentration. HIT plasma contained higher myeloperoxidase concentrations than control plasma, suggesting leukocyte degranulation during HIT. In conclusion, this study provides the first evidence that PMN activation is induced by HIT plasma. HIT plasma induced PMN and monocyte activation in a heparin-dependent manner. In whole blood, platelet association with monocytes and PMN, and the activation of these leukocytes by HIT plasma were interrelated. Finally, leukocyte degranulation could be involved in HIT physiopathology.
Reticulated platelet percentages in term and preterm neonates.	The authors aimed to determine whether their reticulated platelet percentage (RP%) analysis technique was suitable for use in term and preterm neonates and to characterize RP% values among nonthrombocytopenic neonates.
Detection of unique neutrophil non-muscle myosin heavy chain-A localization by immunofluorescence analysis in MYH9 disorder presented with macrothrombocytopenia without leukocyte inclusions and deafness.	MYH9 disorders are autosomal-dominant macrothrombocytopenias with leukocyte inclusions caused by mutations in the MYH9 gene, which encodes the non-muscle myosin heavy chain-A (NMMHCA). We report a patient with an MYH9 disorder who presented with macrothrombocytopenia without leukocyte inclusions and severe bilateral sensory deafness. Conventional May-Grunwald-Giemsa staining failed to detect granulocyte cytoplasmic inclusions, whereas immunofluorescence analysis clearly demonstrated abnormal neutrophil NMMHCA localization. Genetic analyses revealed a novel heterozygous 18 base deletion in MYH9, leading to a six-amino acid in-frame deletion (N76_S81del) in NMMHCA. These results further support the usefulness of immunofluorescence analysis in differential diagnosis of MYH9 disorders.
Total sialic acid in human and canine platelets does not change with the platelet age.	Total platelet sialic acid (SA) was measured in three experimental conditions: (1) human and canine platelet density subpopulations obtained by centrifugation in arabinogalactan gradients, (2) circulating canine platelets during recovery from experimental immune and mechanical thrombocytopenias, and (3) platelets obtained from a patient with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura before and after splenectomy. The density of human and canine platelets is, in part, determined by their age. We found no significant differences in total SA between high-density (HD) and low-density (LD) platelets (9.32 +/- 2.0 vs. 9.55 +/- 1.3 micrograms/mg of platelet protein in dogs and 9.02 +/- 2.3 vs. 9.10 +/- 2.9 micrograms/mg in humans). In the human and canine thrombocytopenic models, the entrance of new platelets from the bone marrow is followed by their aging in the circulation. In these models, no significant changes in total SA content were detected in sequential measurements during the recovery of the thrombocytopenia. Accordingly, we conclude that total SA in human and canine platelets is unrelated to their age in circulation. These results do not support the notion that the loss of SA from membrane glycoproteins determines the recognition and removal of platelets from the circulation.
First description of somatic mosaicism in MYH9 disorders.	MYH9 disorders are characterized by giant platelets, thrombocytopenia, and Dohle body-like cytoplasmic granulocyte inclusion bodies that result from mutations in MYH9, which encodes non-muscle myosin heavy chain-A (NMMHCA). These disorders are known to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner, although about 20% of cases are considered to be sporadic. We report here the first case of a MYH9 disorder because of somatic mosaicism. The patient was the father of a male with typical May-Hegglin anomaly. The father had normal platelet counts, however, both normal-sized and giant platelets were observed on his peripheral blood smears. In addition, 14% of neutrophils contained inclusion bodies and the rest showed a normal morphology. Quantitative fluorescent polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that only 6% of DNA from peripheral blood leucocytes harboured the mutation. The mosaicism was demonstrated at a similar rate in different tissues, buccal mucosa cells and hair bulb cells, implying that the mutation had occurred before gastrulation. Mosaicism might account for some de novo mutations in MYH9 disorders.
48, XXYY syndrome associated with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia.	A 56-yr-old man with hypogonadism, gynecomastia, and mental retardation was evaluated for chromosome constitution and thrombocytopenia. Chromosomal analysis demonstrated the mosaicism of 48, XXYY and 47, XXY in the peripheral lymphocytes. Twenty out of twenty-five cells were 48, XXYY karyotype and the remaining five were 47, XXY karyotype. Thrombocytopenia was the EDTA-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia type 1 (platelet agglutination). Serological examination suggests that the platelet agglutinin belongs to IgM-kappa type. The present case exhibited both EDTA-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia and the 48, XXYY syndrome. Although this combination may have occurred purely by change, the possibility of whether or not the mosaicism of lymphocytes produces platelet agglutinin remains to be clarified.
Correlation of in vitro and in vivo biological activities during the partial purification of thrombopoietin.	We have evaluated three in vitro assays for megakaryocyte maturation as monitors of biological activities of thrombopoietin (TPO). The in vitro measurements, that is, potentiation of murine megakaryocyte colonies in soft agar cultures, growth of single murine megakaryocytes in soft agar, and acetylcholinesterase production in liquid cultures of murine bone marrow cells, were correlated with measurements of thrombopoiesis stimulatory activity in vivo, based on labeling of newly formed platelets with [75Se]selenomethionine. Protein fractions produced during the purification of TPO from the plasma of thrombocytopenic rabbits were used to evaluate the in vitro assays. Potentiation of murine megakaryocyte colony growth in soft agar was least valuable as a TPO assay, due to variability. Growth of single megakaryocytes in vitro, in a serum-free, agar culture system, correlated well with measurement of thrombopoiesis-stimulating activity in vivo, in regard to increases in specific activity during the purification, and was the most sensitive of the three assays. The serum-free, liquid culture assay also correlated well with the in vivo assay, and it had the additional advantage of being feasible for evaluation of the large numbers of protein fractions produced by high-resolution chromatographic procedures. Using the liquid culture system to assay fractions from gel permeation high performance liquid chromatography, a biologically active fraction with a molecular weight range of 40-47 kd was identified.
Erythrocytes with covalently bound fibrinogen as a cellular replacement for the treatment of thrombocytopenia.	Thrombocytopenia in general, and autoimmune thrombocytopenia in particular, is a disease of high prevalence with a non-satisfactory regime of treatment. The present study aimed to explore the feasibility of an alternative treatment, based on the rationale that autologous erythrocytes modified to bear covalently bound fibrinogen would participate passively in the aggregation of the remaining platelets, thus augmenting the haemostatic needs, while resisting the autoimmune reaction directed towards the platelets. Several procedures for the cross-linking of fibrinogen to red blood cells (RBCs) were tested. Formaldehyde (33 microM) for 10 min at 23 degrees C attached 58 fibrinogen molecules per erythrocyte. These erythrocytes were indistinguishable from untreated erythrocytes in the following properties: osmotic fragility, bound haemoglobin, sedimentation rate, acetylcholinesterase activity, phagocytosis by macrophages, rosette formation with K562 cells. It is shown that RBCs cross-linked with fibrinogen are capable of participating in the in vitro aggregation of platelets and are indeed effective in the in vivo process of arrest of bleeding in an animal model of autoimmune thrombocytopenia.
The HELLP syndrome. 13 cases]	The Hellp syndrome is a complication of raised blood pressure in pregnancy, haemolysis, a rise in liver enzymes and thrombopenia. In this retrospective study we report 12 cases of Hellp syndrome which occurred in the University Hospital Centre of Poitiers between 1982 and 1990 and we discuss causes, the progress, the prognosis and the management. Six patients were helped by prophylactic Caesarean operation. Two patients had eclamptic fits. Fortunately there was no maternal death. There were seven cases of intrauterine growth retardation, two of in utero fetal death and one of early neonatal death. When clinical and biological parameters of the Hellp syndrome come right following delivery, the outlook for the mother is quickly favourable, but the syndrome can continue and sometimes become worse after delivery. Stopping the pregnancy is the basic treatment and conservative treatment has only a very limited success. Finally, the prognosis for the future is usually good and it is unlikely to recur.
Clinical efficacy of recombinant human interleukin 11 on thrombocytopenia in pre-aplastic anemia]	To evaluate the clinical efficacy of recombinant human Interleukin 11 in the treatment of pre-aplastic anemia, six patients with pre-aplastic anemia were injected with rhIL-11 of 6 million units once a day during 7-14 days. Blood platelet counts were taken on day 8, 15, 30 and 60 after the treatment, and bone marrow examination was performed on day 15 as compared with those before treatment. The results showed that platelet counts in 3 out of 6 patients increased remarkably (50%), one of the six increased moderately (16.7%), another case of the six increased slightly (16.7%), platelet in one out of six did not significantly increase (16.7%), the total efficacy rate is 83.3%, the amount of megakaryocyte in bone marrow of all six patients increased, the side effect of the rhIL-11 treatment was light. In conclusion, the efficacy of recombinant human Interleukin-11 in the treatment of thrombocytopenia patients with pre-aplastic anemia is satisfactory. As the number of the cases is too small to conclude, further exploration needs accumulation of more applications.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombotic complications.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombotic complications is a serious clinical problem. The diagnosis is confirmed by a positive heparin-induced platelet aggregation test and/or detection of white clots upon pathological exam after a presumptive diagnosis based on these criteria: (1) Development of thrombocytopenia of less than 100,000 mm3 while receiving heparin therapy; (2) Normalization of the platelet count after an interruption in heparin therapy; (3) The presence of thrombotic complications; and (4) Exclusion of other causes of thrombocytopenia. Eight patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia were encountered at the Charleston Area Medical Center, Memorial Division, in a recent 20-month period. Various types of heparin, routes of administration, and indications were implicated. The mean platelet nadir was 25,750 mm3 and the mean time to onset of of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was 4.9 days. Thrombotic complications included seven patients with arterial occlusions of the legs, six with deep-vein thrombosis of the legs (three had pulmonary embolism), and five with combined arterial and venous thrombosis. Treatment strategies included discontinuation of heparin in all patients; intravenous infusion of dextran in five patients, followed by arterial thrombectomy in three patients; urokinase therapy in two patients for arterial thrombotic complications; and insertion of Greenfield filters in four patients for venous thrombotic complications. All surviving patients were given warfarin. The mortality rate was 25 percent and the morbidity rate was 38 percent. In conclusion, an initial platelet count should be obtained on all patients prior to receiving heparin, followed by repeat platelet counts every two to three days. Once thrombocytopenia or thrombosis is diagnosed, heparin should be discontinued and other therapeutic modalities considered.
Juvenile cyclic amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia: a novel entity.	Cyclic thrombocytopenia is a rare disorder described in adults, characterized by periodic platelet count fluctuations of unknown etiology. The authors describe a boy with cyclic changes in platelet counts ranging from 2 x 10(9)/L to 224 x 10(9)/L with a periodicity of 25 days. Since birth, the patient had periods of bruising. Platelet counts were periodically low during these periods. Thrombopoietin plasma levels oscillated inversely with the platelet count, whereas glycocalicin levels oscillated in phase with the platelets. No oscillation was seen in neutrophil and reticulocyte numbers. The bone marrow showed periodic reduction in megakaryocyte counts. In an in vitro megakaryocytopoiesis assay, the patient's CD34+ cells showed megakaryocyte formation, although to a lower level than controls. Addition of patient plasma, collected during the rise in platelet numbers, to cultures with normal bone marrow-derived CD34+ cells caused an increase in the development of CD41+ megakaryoblasts. Because the periods with bruising had existed since birth, apparently this is a form of congenital cyclic thrombocytopenia. The underlying mechanism of the cyclic thrombocytopenia in this patient is not yet clear, and until now, no therapy has been found for this patient. However, platelet transfusions have resulted in cessation of bleeding during thrombocytopenic periods.
The "HELLP" syndrome: a severe sign in toxemia. Three new cases]	Three women with hypertension, admitted for severe epigastric pain in the third trimester of pregnancy had a complete HS. All 3 women recovered spontaneously 3 days after delivery. All clinical and laboratory findings rapidly disappeared. A premature labour was a neonatal death at 26 weeks. The 2 other infants had delivered by caesarean section because the cardiotocogram showed signs of fetal hypoxemia.
Scope of growth factor in cancer patients.	The growth factors (GFs) act at different stages of stem cell proliferation. Among them the most important ones found of clinical use are erythropoietin (EPO), granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and thrombopoietin (TPO). Their concomitant use makes treatment with chemotherapy or radiotherapy easier and cost-effective, with fewer side effects and better quality of life in highly selected patients.
The role of thrombopoietin in the thrombocytopenia of patients with liver cirrhosis.	Thrombocytopenia is a common disorder among cirrhotics that has been traditionally explained by splenic platelet pooling and destruction. Thrombopoietin (TPO), the main stimuli for thrombopoiesis is produced primarily in the liver and degraded by circulating platelets, but its role in the thrombocytopenia of liver cirrhosis is not well understood. The main goal of this study is to clarify the role of TPO in the pathogenesis of thrombocytopenia in cirrhosis.
The study on effect of Sarcandra glabra on prevention and treatment of thrombocytopenia by chemotherapy]	To investigate the effect of Sarcandra glabra Thunb on prevention and treatment of thrombocytopenia after chemotherapy with a large dosage.
Acquired amegakaryocytic thrombocytopaenia in a child.	A boy aged 5 years is described with amegakaryocytic thrombocytopaenia, which was associated with defective granulopoiesis and erythropoiesis, but did not evolve into marrow aplasia. Marrow cultures confirmed the presence of abnormalities in each of the haemopoietic lineages and identified defective maturation of megakaryocytic precursors. The was no evidence of a humoral inhibitor of megakaryopoiesis. The patient's blood cell counts responded to treatment with oxymetholone.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia, thrombosis and embolism. Side effects of thromboembolism prevention with low molecular weight heparin enoxaparin?]	Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) is a rarely described adverse reaction of systemic administration of heparin that may be complicated by thrombosis, embolism and bleeding. Unfractionated heparin as well as low molecular weight heparin may provoke HAT. A case of HAT complicated by thrombosis and pulmonary embolism is described that came about during preventive postoperative anticoagulation with the low molecular weight heparin enoxaparin. Pathogenesis, diagnosis, prophylaxis and therapy of HAT are discussed.
Lenalidomide therapy in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.	We present results of 2 similarly designed but separate phase 2 studies involving single-agent lenalidomide (CC-5013, Revlimid) in a total of 68 patients with symptomatic myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM). Protocol treatment consisted of oral lenalidomide at 10 mg/d (5 mg/d if baseline platelet count < 100 x 10(9)/L) for 3 to 4 months with a plan to continue treatment for either 3 or 24 additional months, in case of response. Overall response rates were 22% for anemia, 33% for splenomegaly, and 50% for thrombocytopenia. Response in anemia was deemed impressive in 8 patients whose hemoglobin level normalized from a baseline of either transfusion dependency or hemoglobin level lower than 100 g/L. Additional treatment effects in these patients included resolution of leukoerythroblastosis (4 patients), a decrease in medullary fibrosis and angiogenesis (2 patients), and del(5)(q13q33) cytogenetic remission accompanied by a reduction in JAK2(V617F) mutation burden (1 patient). Grade 3 or 4 adverse events included neutropenia (31%) and thrombocytopenia (19%). We conclude that lenalidomide engenders an intriguing treatment activity in a subset of patients with MMM that includes an unprecedented effect on peripheral blood and bone marrow abnormalities.
Effects of different liver diseases on the platelet count in dogs]	Changes of the platelet count in liver diseases are described in humans. Thrombocytopenia was observed more frequently than thrombocytosis. There are only a few investigations on platelet counts in liver diseases in dogs. The goal of the present study was to investigate the influence of different liver diseases including degeneration, hepatitis and liver tumours, on the platelet count. Platelet counts of 52 dogs with different liver diseases were measured and compared with 52 healthy dogs. The results showed, that dogs with liver degeneration have thrombocytosis in 41% of the cases and a group of dogs with liver tumours (malignant histiocytosis, hepatoma, malignant lymphoma anaplastic sarcoma, cholangiocarcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma) had thrombocytopenia in 50% of the cases. The dogs with hepatitis showed no specific changes in the platelet count. The statistical comparison of our patients with liver disease and a control group of healthy dogs showed significantly higher platelet counts in cases of liver degeneration (p < 0.0001) and significantly lower platelet counts in cases of liver tumour (p < 0.001). The comparison between the dogs with different liver diseases showed significantly lower platelet counts in dogs with liver tumours when compared to dogs with liver degeneration (p < 0.0001). There was no significant difference between dogs with liver tumours and dogs with hepatitis and between dogs with liver degeneration and dogs with hepatitis. Based on the results of this study the author recommends to assess platelet counts in all dogs with liver disease, especially if liver biopsy is planed.
Thrombin generation in patients with cirrhosis: the role of platelets.	Coagulation factor defects, thrombocytopenia, and thrombocytopathy are associated with cirrhosis. However, bleeding in patients who have cirrhosis does not entirely correlate with abnormal coagulation tests. Recently, it was shown that because of the concomitant abnormalities of the procoagulant and anticoagulant drives, thrombin generation in plasma patients with cirrhosis is normal when assessed with assays that include thrombomodulin (the main protein C activator). However, thrombin is also generated in vivo as a function of platelets, suggesting that thrombocytopenia and thrombocytopathy might affect thrombin generation in patients with cirrhosis. We addressed this issue using an assay that accounts for the contribution of plasma and platelets. The study showed that platelet-rich plasma with platelets adjusted by dilution of autologous platelet-rich into autologous platelet-poor plasma to a standard count (100 x 10(9)/L) generates as much thrombin in patients with cirrhosis as in controls (1,063 nmol/L vs. 1,167 nmol/L; P value not significant). When platelets were adjusted to correspond to whole-blood counts, patients with cirrhosis generated significantly less thrombin than controls (949 nmol/L vs. 1,239 nmol/L; P < .001). Furthermore, thrombin generation correlated with platelet numbers (rho = 0.50; P < .001). In addition, the amount of thrombin generated as a function of the whole-blood patients' platelet counts increased significantly when the numbers were adjusted to 100 x 10(9)/L (953 nmol/L vs.1,063 nmol/L; P < .001). In conclusion, severe thrombocytopenia may limit thrombin generation in patients with cirrhosis. These findings might justify platelet transfusion in patients with low platelet counts when they bleed spontaneously or before undergoing surgery or liver biopsy. Controlled clinical trials supporting this indication are warranted.
Platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonist, XV459, in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a serious, immune-related complication of heparin therapy. One of the most severe manifestations of HIT is the development of thromboembolic events, which is based on platelet activation and aggregation caused by HIT-associated antibodies. Therapeutic options for patients with HIT are limited despite advancement toward the development of alternative (nonheparin) anticoagulants, such as direct thrombin inhibitors and indirect anti-factor Xa agents. Platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists have been shown to be the final common pathway for platelet aggregation regardless of the use of activator or anticoagulant. In this study, the ability of a novel platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonist, a free acid form of roxifiban (XV459), to block platelet activation/aggregation in response to highly characterized heparin-PF4 antibody-positive plasma/heparin was examined using light transmittance aggregometry, serotonin release, and (125)I-fibrinogen binding assays to human platelets. XV459 at 20 nM maximally inhibited (P < 0.001) the platelet-activation/aggregation responses as mediated by the HIT antibody-positive plasma (in the presence of therapeutic heparin concentrations). Compared with controls, both HIT antibodies/heparin and TEAC (a mixture of thrombin [0.1 IU/ml], epinephrine [1 microg/ml], arachidonate [0.1 mM], and collagen [10 microml]) resulted in significantly higher levels of fibrinogen binding to human platelets (5-7-fold increase; P < 0.001). Concentration-dependent profiles of XV459 on the mean percent inhibition of (125)I-fibrinogen binding in the presence of HIT antibodies and TEAC were achieved ( approximately 50% inhibition at 10 nM XV459). The platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonist (XV459) might be of potential benefit in the management of thrombotic thrombocytopenia produced by heparin and/or related glycosaminoglycans.
Progressive platelet activation with storage: evidence for shortened survival of activated platelets after transfusion.	Platelets are known to become activated during storage, but it is unclear whether such activation affects recovery or survival after platelet concentrate (PC) transfusion. With the use of flow cytometry to determine the percentage of platelets expressing the alpha-granule membrane protein 140 (GMP-140), a known adhesive ligand appearing on the platelet surface after activation, several studies were conducted. These investigations evaluated 1) the occurrence of significant platelet activation over time in PCs (n = 46) stored under standard blood bank conditions; 2) the correlation between platelet activation and platelet recovery in normal subjects after PC storage (n = 12), as assessed by the recovery of Indium-labeled platelets; and 3) the recovery of activated and unactivated platelets in thrombocytopenic cancer patients transfused with standard PCs (n = 11). It was determined 1) that an increasing duration of storage of PC was associated with increasing platelet activation as measured by the percentage of platelets expressing GMP-140, progressing from a mean of 4 +/- 2 percent (SD) on the day of collection to a mean of 25 +/- 8 percent by 5 days of storage: 2) that, in normal subjects, posttransfusion recovery of autologous platelets stored for 2 to 4 days and then labeled with In111 was inversely correlated with the percentage of activated platelets in the transfused PC (r = -0.55, p = 0.05); and 3) that, when thrombocytopenic patients were transfused with standard PCs, the recovery of the activated platelets in the transfused PCs averaged only 38 +/- 15 percent of the number predicted by the absolute platelet increment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adenovirus-induced thrombocytopenia: the role of von Willebrand factor and P-selectin in mediating accelerated platelet clearance.	Thrombocytopenia has been consistently reported following the administration of adenoviral gene transfer vectors. The mechanism underlying this phenomenon is currently unknown. In this study, we have assessed the influence of von Willebrand Factor (VWF) and P-selectin on the clearance of platelets following adenovirus administration. In mice, thrombocytopenia occurs between 5 and 24 hours after adenovirus delivery. The virus activates platelets and induces platelet-leukocyte aggregate formation. There is an associated increase in platelet and leukocyte-derived microparticles. Adenovirus-induced endothelial cell activation was shown by VCAM-1 expression on virus-treated, cultured endothelial cells and by the release of ultra-large molecular weight multimers of VWF within 1 to 2 hours of virus administration with an accompanying elevation of endothelial microparticles. In contrast, VWF knockout (KO) mice did not show significant thrombocytopenia after adenovirus administration. We have also shown that adenovirus interferes with adhesion of platelets to a fibronectin-coated surface and flow cytometry revealed the presence of the Coxsackie adenovirus receptor on the platelet surface. We conclude that VWF and P-selectin are critically involved in a complex platelet-leukocyte-endothelial interplay, resulting in platelet activation and accelerated platelet clearance following adenovirus administration.
Multidisciplinary consultation for the prescription of danaparoid in suspected heparin-induced thrombocytopenia]	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a serious immune complication of heparin therapy and presents a risk of severe thromboembolic events. Withdrawal of heparin together with administration of an alternative antithrombotic agent is always necessary in patients with suspected HIT. Diagnosis of this complication, however, is often difficult, particularly in hospitalized patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of multidisciplinary consultation on the appropriate prescription of danaparoid, widely used as an alternative antithrombotic treatment in HIT.
Microparticle-associated P-selectin reflects platelet activation in preeclampsia.	Platelet activation in preeclampsia is reflected by elevated levels of platelets exposing P-selectin. In plasma, a non-cell bound (soluble) form of P-selectin is present. Elevated levels of this soluble form have been reported in preeclampsia. Plasma P-selectin may consist of two fractions: microparticle (MP)--associated P-selectin and non-MP--associated P-selectin. In the present cross-sectional study, we investigated to which extent plasma P-selectin is MP--associated and whether such MP are elevated in preeclamptic patients. Preeclamptic patients (n=10) were matched with normotensive pregnant women (n=10) and non-pregnant controls (n=10). Plasma P-selectin was measured by ELISA. MP were isolated, double labelled with anti-CD61 (GPIIIa) and anti-CD62P (P-selectin) and subsequently analyzed with flowcytometry. Plasma P-selectin concentration was elevated in preeclamptic patients compared to non-pregnant controls (p=0.007), but not compared to normotensive pregnant women (p=0.210). Plasma P-selectin is partially MP--associated (3-5%). In pregnancy, the fraction of P-selectin exposing platelet-derived MP (PMP) (10.9%) was increased compared to non-pregnant controls (8%). This fraction further increased in preeclamptic patients (15.4%), and significantly differed from normotensive pregnant women (p=0.02). A minor fraction of plasma P-selectin is associated with PMP. The fraction of PMP exposing P-selectin is increased in preeclamptic patients and to a lesser extent in normotensive pregnancy. Because MP associated P-selectin exclusively originates from platelets, this fraction indicates platelet activation. Platelet activation is prominent in preeclampsia and this study proves that at least a part of the plasma P-selectin originates from platelets.
Thrombopoietic factor enhances murine megakaryopoiesis induced by recombinant erythropoietin.	Partially purified thrombopoietic factor (TPF) potentiated in vitro murine megakaryopoiesis induced by recombinant human erythropoietin (rh-Epo). High doses (2.5-10 units) of rh-Epo generated a considerable number of megakaryocytes in a dose-dependent manner in a serum-free liquid culture, whereas low doses of rh-Epo (0.5-1 units) failed to generate megakaryocytes. The addition of high doses of rh-Epo and TPF caused a significant increase of megakaryocytes in comparison with high doses of rh-Epo alone. Furthermore, low doses of rh-Epo with TPF caused generation of a small number of megakaryocytes, although TPF alone did not generate megakaryocytes. In addition, TPF enhanced the acetylcholinesterase (Ach-E) activity of megakaryocytes induced by rh-Epo. The potentiating effects of both factors, rh-Epo and thrombopoietic factor, may play an important role in thrombocytopenic states in vivo as well as in in vitro megakaryopoiesis.
Peripheral blood and bone marrow changes in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.	There is dearth of information on the haematologic complications of HIV/AIDS in this country. The aim of this work was to evaluate the importance of peripheral blood and bone marrow changes in a population of adult Nigerians managed for symptomatic HIV infection at the OAUTHC, Ile-Ife, between 1995 and 2001. The study was prospective. Peripheral blood cells counts (haemetocrit value, total and differential leucocyte counts, and platelet counts) and bone marrow cytology of serologically confirmed HIV/AIDS patients seen within the study period were studied. The associated opportunistic disorder (s) was noted for each patient. Individuals with conditions that are ordinarily associated with haematologic disorders (e.g. cancer and inherited haemoglobinopathies) and patients diagnosed in pregnancy were not included. Significant levels of differences in mean values of blood cells within groups were determined by student's t-test. Seventy-two patients were recorded, out of which 49 (68%) were evaluable. There were 32 (65%) males and 17 (35%) females, all aged between 21 and 51 (median = 36) years. None of the patients had conventional antiretroviral therapy. Lymphopenia (lymphocytes < 2 x 10(9)/l) was seen in 64.4% of the patients, 50% and over 40% of the patients had moderate-severe anaemia and neutropenia, respectively. Blood cells values were not significantly different between patients with mild disease and those with moderate-severe diseases. The most characteristic marrow abnormality was the abundance of naked nuclei of megakarycytes in 20 (60.1%) of the patients. Dysplatic changes were evident in 15 (45.5%) of the bone marrow specimens studied. Such changes are characterised by dysgranulopoiesis, Pelger-Huet anomaly in some of the mature granulocytes, vacuolation of some erythroid and myeloid cells, unilobular micromegakaryocytes and megaloblastic erythroid precursors (15.1% of the marrow).
Severe thrombocytopenia before liver transplantation is associated with delayed recovery of thrombocytopenia regardless of donor type.	To compare the recovery of thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly during long-term follow-up after liver transplantation in patients receiving a living donor transplant or a cadaveric donor transplant.
Oxidative stress in severe dengue viral infection: association of thrombocytopenia with lipid peroxidation.	Oxidative stress in viral infections has been suggested. The study was carried out to assess the oxidative stress in the different clinical spectrums of dengue infection and to evaluate if thrombocytopenia is associated with lipid and protein oxidative injury. Twenty-seven dengue fever (DF), 32 dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and 21 dengue shock syndrome (DSS) cases were studied at 3, 5 and 7 days of illness. Sixty-three healthy subjects were selected as controls. Serum protein carbonyls (PCOs), malendialdehyde (MDA) and total antioxidant status (TAS) were estimated in blood. Dengue infected individuals had significantly high levels of PCOs and MDA on the three days tested in comparison to controls. In DF cases, no significant changes in the levels of MDA and PCOs were found in course of time. However, among DHF and DSS, significant increase in MDA levels was found in the fifth and seventh day samples in comparison to their respective third day sample (P < 0.05). Using one way ANOVA, high PCOs levels were found in DSS in comparison to DF and DHF cases on all the three days tested (P < 0.001). TAS levels were found to be low among DSS on days 5 and 7 and day 7 in DHF when compared with DF cases. Correlation analysis between MDA and hematocrit revealed a significant positive association between them in DHF and DSS on day 5 (DHF r = 0.372; p = 0.024 and DSS r = 0.535; p = 0.0-01) and day 7 (DHF r = 0.412; p = 0.003 and DSS r = 0.765; p < 0.0001). There was an important negative correlation between platelet count and plasma lipid peroxidation levels among DHF and DSS on all three days tested [day 3 (DHF r = -0.392; p = 0.012 and DSS r = -0.453; p = 0.004), day 5 (DHF r = -0.592; p < 0.001 and DSS r = -0.581; p < 0.001) and day 7 (DHF r = -0.418; p = 0.001 and DSS r = -0.515; p = 0.002)]. This study concludes that an increase in oxidative stress was found in dengue viral infection. The level of oxidative stress was maximal in DSS followed by DHF and its severity was minimal in DF. The thrombocytopenia of dengue infection was associated with the extent of lipid peroxidation. Future studies might be carried out to find the role of oxidative damage in the ethiopathogenesis of thrombocytopenia and vascular leakage in dengue infection.
High-resolution melting analysis for detection of MYH9 mutations.	May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA), Sebastian (SBS), Fechtner (FTNS) and Epstein (EPS) syndromes are rare autosomal dominant disorders with giant platelets and thrombocytopenia. Other manifestations of these disorders are combinations of the presence of granulocyte inclusions and deafness, cataracts and renal failure. Currently, MHA, SBS, FTNS and EPS are considered to be distinct clinical manifestation of a single illness caused by mutations of the MYH9 gene encoding the heavy chain of non-muscle myosin IIA (NMMHC-IIA). As the MYH9 gene has a high number of exons, it takes much time and material to use this method for the detection of MYH9 mutations. Recently, a new method has been introduced for scanning DNA mutations without the need for direct sequencing: high-resolution melting analysis (HRMA). Mutation detection with HRMA relies on the intercalation of the specific dye (LC Green plus) in double-strand DNA and fluorescence monitoring of PCR product melting profiles. In our study, we optimized the conditions and used HRMA for rapid screening of mutations in all MYH9 exons in seven affected individuals from four unrelated families with suspected MYH9 disorders. Samples identified by HRMA as positive for the mutation were analysed by direct sequencing. HRMA saved us over 85% of redundant sequencing.
Gabexate mesilate induced remarkable transient reversal of thrombocytopenia in a ITP patient]	A 46-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of hemorrhagic tendency. Normal coagulation test results conflicted with the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Furthermore, we saw no evidence of autoantibodies, including antinuclear antibodies and splenomegaly, and there was no past history of infection or medication. Peripheral blood test showed marked decrease of platelets only. Bone marrow aspiration revealed increased megakaryocytes. Morphology of other blood components was normal. Thus, we diagnosed this case as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Administration of prednisolone and an immunosuppressants did not improve symptoms. So patient was temporarily discharged and treated with 6-MP at the outpatient department. She was rehospitalized for liver damage caused by the drug. Patient then developed sepsis from acinetobactor. We administered gabexate mesilate (FOY, 2,000 mg/day) for four days to prevent DIC. Platelet count, which was 1.5 X 10(4)/microliter before FOT administration, began increasing on the second day, reaching 25. 5 X 10(4)/microliter on the fourth. Count rapidly decreased to 2.8 X 10(4)/microliter on the seventh day after administration had been discontinued. Two-time FOY administration after patient's recovery from sepsis led to a definite, similar transient increase in platelet count. As ITP patients with transient increase in platelet count by FOY administration had not been reported, this case is thought to be an interesting case in the pathogenesis and treatment of ITP.
Blood coagulation disorders in leukemia]	Bleeding and septicemia are the most common causes of death in patients with acute leukemia. Additionally to thrombopenia, which is present in most patients, in part of the patients severe coagulation abnormalities are observed. The prevalence of severe coagulation abnormalities in patients with acute myeloid leukemia including all FAB types is around 12%, in patients with promyelocytic leukemia the prevalence is more than 50%. The etiology of this coagulation abnormality remains unclear. There are 3 mechanisms currently under discussion: activation of coagulation, activation of fibrinolysis and an increased activity of specific leucocyte proteases. In particular, in promyelocytic leukemia the risk of cerebral bleeding is high (10 to 15% of early deaths). The most important therapeutic consequence is an intensified thrombocyte replacement regimen. Additional therapeutic efforts, like administration of heparin or antifibrinolytic drugs, have failed to improve the prognosis of patients with severe coagulation abnormalities.
Standardization of definitions and criteria for causality assessment of adverse drug reactions. Drug-induced blood cytopenias: report of an international consensus meeting.	International reporting of adverse drug reactions to pharmaceutical companies or drug regulatory authorities requires internationally accepted standard definitions of reactions and criteria for assessment of causality. Under CIOMS (Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences) auspices, the Roussel Uclaf pharmaceutical company organized an international meeting concerning drug-induced blood cytopenias. The meeting resulted in proposed standard designations of blood cytopenias and criteria for causality assessment of neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and aplastic anemia.
Early-onset and persisting thrombocytopenia in post-cardiac surgery patients is rarely due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, even when antibody tests are positive.	The high frequency of thrombocytopenia in post-cardiac surgery patients makes it challenging to diagnose heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). Two platelet count profiles are reported as indicating possible HIT in these patients: profile 1 describes a platelet count fall that begins between postoperative days 5 and 10, whereas profile 2 denotes early-onset thrombocytopenia that persists beyond day 5.
Subcutaneous anti-D globulin application is a safe treatment option of immune thrombocytopenia in children.	Subcutaneous (sc) administration of anti-D seems to offer the same efficacy as intravenous administration but with less side effects. Here we report our experience with sc anti-D for pediatric immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). A total of 12 children with a median age of 11.2 years had been treated by sc anti-D. They received a median of 2 sc anti-D applications (range 1-31) with a dosage of 250-375 IE/kg body weight. Only in one out of a total of 102 single applications, a minimal and self-limited side effect (chills) had been observed. The mean platelet count was almost doubled after sc anti-D (p < 0.0001). After a median follow-up of 11.4 months, all patients are alive without major bleeding and stay well. We conclude that sc anti-D: is not only an efficient means of treating ITP in children but is also a safe and convenient one.
Severe gastrointestinal bleeding and thrombocytopenia in a child with an anti-GATA1 autoantibody.	We describe a patient, who developed during the first week of life petechiae and hematomas caused by severe thrombocytopenia and gastrointestinal bleeding due to multiple small gastric hemangiomata. Bone marrow examination showed hypermegakaryocytosis and dysmegakaryopoiesis. Alloimmune thrombocytopenia was excluded. Only 3 y later, platelet counts normalized and bleedings disappeared but small skin hemangiomata remained. Electron microscopy showed enlarged round platelets with a paucity of alpha granules similar as in GATA1-deficient patients but no GATA1 mutation was found. Immunoblot analysis showed a strong interaction between patient Igs and recombinant GATA1, GATA2, and the N finger (Nf) of GATA1. The lymphocyte transformation test with recombinant GATA1Nf was positive. In vitro culturing of normal CD34 cells with purified patient Igs showed a decreased number of megakaryocyte colonies but an increased overall size of the colonies compared with control Igs. Mice injected with patient Igs showed a reduced platelet count compared with mice injected with control Igs. Thrombopoiesis was also reduced after injection of patient Igs in transgenic zebrafish compared with control Igs. In conclusion, this study is the first report of an anti-GATA1 autoantibody leading to severe thrombocytopenia and gastrointestinal bleeding from multiple pinpoint hemangiomata.
Platelet IgG: measurement, interpretation, and clinical significance.	Platelet IgG has been studied primarily to develop an aid for clinical diagnosis--a search that has proven elusive (48). However, studies of the interaction of IgG and other plasma proteins with platelets have provided new insight into the intracellular pathways for the acquisition of proteins into regulated secretory granules. From a clinical perspective, it is important not to make the assumption that all platelet IgG is antiplatelet antibody. Data on platelet IgG must be distinguished between measurements of alpha-granule IgG, which comprises almost all of the total platelet IgG content, and platelet surface IgG, representing less than 1 percent of total platelet IgG. alpha-granule IgG does not appear to be antiplatelet antibody; platelet surface IgG is likely to be at least partly antiplatelet antibody. The total platelet (alpha-granule) content of IgG mirrors the concentration and composition of plasma IgG. It is increased in patients with hypergammaglobulinemia of any cause and absent in agammaglobulinemia. The platelet alpha-granule content of IgG, IgA, and albumin is proportional to their concentrations in plasma, and the platelet content of IgG, IgA and albumin also reflects their plasma concentration over a wide range of plasma abnormalities. These observations suggest that platelets acquire IgG, IgA, and albumin by fluid phase endocytosis. Total platelet IgG is consistently increased in patients with ITP and is also commonly increased in patients with thrombocytopenia due to increased platelet destruction of apparently nonimmune mechanisms. The total platelet IgG content does not appear to be increased in patients who have thrombocytopenia due to marrow failure. Therefore, the measurement of total platelet IgG may be analogous to the reticulocyte count, which is increased in patients who have accelerated erythropoiesis caused by either immune or nonimmune hemolytic anemia. The increased concentration of total platelet IgG in patients with ITP is parallel to the appearance of larger platelets produced during the stress of increased thrombopoietic stimulation. Therefore, determinations of mean platelet volume may yield clinical information equivalent to the measurement of total platelet IgG. The concentration of platelet surface IgG is greatly increased in patients with ITP, and concentrations are highest in patients with the most acute ITP. Platelet surface IgG may represent antiplatelet antibody in these patients. However, for unknown reasons, modest elevations of platelet surface IgG are found in many patients with nonimmune thrombocytopenia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), typically occurring in the second week of heparin therapy, is an antibody-mediated adverse drug reaction associated with increased thrombotic risk. The most important antigens are located on platelet factor 4 (PF4)/heparin complexes. HIT is always caused by platelet-activating antibodies, but not all PF4/heparin-reactive antibodies cause HIT. Thus, tests have a high negative, but only a moderate, positive predictive value. Clinical suspicion of HIT requires cessation of heparin and substitution with an alternative anticoagulant. As these drugs have an increased bleeding risk, they should be used in therapeutic doses only if HIT is considered very likely. Avoiding/postponing coumarin is crucial in minimizing microthrombotic complications. Recent studies of HIT immunobiology suggest that HIT mimics immunity against repetitive antigens, as are relevant in microbial defense. Thus, understanding HIT may help unravel why host defenses can trigger autoimmunity.
Cutaneous lymphangioma and amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia in Noonan syndrome.	A case of congenital cutaneous lymphangioma and amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia in an infant with Noonan syndrome is described. These features broaden the phenotype of lymphatic and haematological abnormalities associated with this syndrome.
Hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia: the HELLP syndrome--a manifestation of severe pre-eclampsia]	On the basis of a review of the literature and five case histories, the pathophysiological and clinical features in pregnant women with haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia which together constitute the HELLP syndrome (haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelet count) are illustrated. This syndrome describes a complicated obstetric course with greatly increased neonatal and maternal morbidities. Hypertension/proteinuria are common but are not obligatory. The condition should be suspected in pregnant women with pain under the right rib margin and unexplained jaundice. The diagnosis is verified by the blood picture, liver enzyme count and a blood smear. Women with verified HELLP syndrome and gestational age greater than 34 weeks should be delivered immediately. Women with the same syndrome and gestational age less than 32 weeks should be delivered if the condition cannot be rapidly controlled. In exceptional cases cesarean section may be necessary. On the basis of the coagulation status, the defective plasma components may be supplied (e.g. fresh frozen plasma and antithrombin-III). Plasmapheresis and specific pharmacological intervention must be considered as experimental at present, although these present promising therapeutic possibilities.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia in a patient with polycythemia vera: the importance of a marked drop in platelet count.	The present report describes a patient with polycythemia vera who developed a severe arterial and venous thrombosis caused by systemically administered heparin. An immunologic implication has been proposed as pathophysiological mechanism of this heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome. It is suggested, however, that a strong decrease in platelet count as occurred in this patient leads to a higher chance of developing this complication.
X-linked thrombocytopenia and thrombocytopathia: attenuated Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. Functional and morphological studies of platelets and lymphocytes.	Detailed studies on the rare disorder X-linked thrombocytopenia showed that it resembles the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) in inheritance, clinical bleeding tendency, platelet morphology, marked thrombocytopenia and microplatelets. The calculated platelet mass was 5% of normal. Functional and biochemical studies indicated qualitatively normal aggregation and release mechanisms, whereas a moderate storage pool defect was present. The classical platelet membrane glycoproteins and lymphocyte sialophorin (CD 43) were normal. The reason for the bleeding tendency was concluded to be deficient hemostatic plug formation resulting from the low platelet mass and a moderate storage pool defect. The only clear distinction from WAS was the normal immunofunctional tests, the moderate tendency to infections and the absence of eczema. We therefore consider the trait as an attenuated form of WAS. That women are affected may indicate a particular variant.
Factors influencing 20-hour increments after platelet transfusion.	The 20-hour posttransfusion platelet count determines transfusion policy for patients requiring platelet support, and yet factors influencing the 20-hour count have been poorly defined. The clinical factors influencing both the 1- and 20-hour corrected count increment (CCI), were studied in 623 human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-unmatched platelet transfusions in 108 patients. The 1- and 20-hour CCIs were highly correlated (r = 0.67, p less than 0.001). On average, the 20-hour CCI was 64 percent of the 1-hour CCI. Multiple linear regression analyses identified splenectomy, bone marrow transplantation, disseminated intravascular coagulation, administration of amphotericin B, palpable spleen, and HLA antibody grade as the major factors influencing the 20-hour posttransfusion CCI. Platelet-specific antibodies, number of concurrent antibiotics, clinical bleeding, and temperature did not significantly influence the 20-hour posttransfusion CCI. The 1-hour CCI was the only significant factor influencing the 20-hour CCI in a regression model containing the 1-hour CCI and the above factors. Thus, the same clinical factors exert a major influence on the CCI at both 1 and 20 hours after platelet transfusion, with no evidence that any factor has more influence at 20 hours after transfusion than at 1 hour.
The natural history of HELLP syndrome: patterns of disease progression and regression.	Despite much recent interest in HELLP syndrome (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count), there is little published information about the natural history of this unique form of severe preeclampsia-eclampsia. The time course and pattern of laboratory abnormalities for 158 patients with HELLP syndrome managed in a single tertiary referral center between 1980 and 1989 were studied retrospectively. Despite considerable patient variation, most gravid women with HELLP syndrome had decreasing platelet counts until 24 to 48 hours after delivery. Conversely, lactate dehydrogenase concentrations usually peaked 24 to 48 hours post partum. In all patients who recovered, a platelet count greater than 1,000,000/mm3 was spontaneously achieved by the sixth postpartum day or within 72 hours of platelet nadir. An upward trend in platelet count and a downward trend in lactate dehydrogenase concentrations should be apparent in patients without complications by the fourth postpartum day. These data provide baseline information against which the course of individual patients can be compared and the infrequent, atypical case identified for interventive therapy.
Prolonged thrombocytopenia following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and its association with a reduction in ploidy and an immaturation of megakaryocytes.	Prolonged thrombocytopenia is a frequent complication after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT); however, its pathogenesis has remained obscure. In the present study, we used flow cytometry to determine the frequency of bone marrow megakaryocytes (MKs) and MK ploidy distributions in allo-HSCT recipients with or without prolonged thrombocytopenia (n = 32 and 27, respectively) and healthy volunteers (n = 13). In addition, the expression of c-Mpl in MKs was measured. The results indicate that the proportions of MKs in marrow mononuclear cells or the percentages of CD110(+) MKs in total MKs did not significantly differ between the 3 groups; however, in a comparison of nonthrombocytopenic allo-HSCT recipients to healthy volunteers, the allo-HSCT patients who had prolonged thrombocytopenia exhibited significant shifts toward low ploidy cells (left shift), which were accompanied by a marked increase in  8N cells (P = .036 and P < .001, respectively) and significant decreases in 16N cells (P < .001 and P < .001, respectively) and  32N cells (P = .01 and P <.001, respectively). These results indicate that there were more immature MKs in allo-HSCT recipients who had prolonged thrombocytopenia, in comparison to nonthrombocytopenic allo-HSCT recipients and healthy volunteers. We conclude that prolonged thrombocytopenia and slow platelet engraftment after allo-HSCT may be related to a reduction in ploidy and an immaturation of MKs.
Platelets prevent acute hepatitis induced by anti-fas antibody.	Platelets provide many functions in the body, especially to the liver. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of thrombocytosis with acute hepatitis induced by anti-Fas antibody and its mechanism.
Assessment of the 4Ts pretest clinical scoring system as a predictor of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	To evaluate the utility of the 4Ts clinical scoring system as a pretest probability method for the detection of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
Differential roles of fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor on clot formation and platelet adhesion in reconstituted and immune thrombocytopenia.	Bleeding tendencies in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) do not always correlate with the number of platelets, suggesting platelet function variation. We used a model of normal whole blood thrombocytopenia to compare platelet function and other hemostatic variables with ITP patients. We further investigated the effect of in vitro spiking with von Willebrand factor (vWF) and fibrinogen on platelet function and hemostatic variables.
Rapid identification of thrombocytopenia-associated multiple organ failure using red blood cell parameters and a volume/hemoglobin concentration cytogram.	Thrombocytopenia-associated multiple organ failure (TAMOF) has a high mortality rate when not treated, and early detection of TAMOF is very important diagnostically and therapeutically. We describe herein our experience of early detection of TAMOF, using an automated hematology analyzer. From 498,390 inpatients, we selected 12 patients suspected of having peripheral schistocytosis, based on the results of red blood cell (RBC) parameters and a volume/hemoglobin concentration (V/HC) cytogram. We promptly evaluated whether the individual patients had clinical manifestations and laboratory findings were consistent with TAMOF. Plasma exchanges were then performed for each patient. All 12 patients had TAMOF. The mean values of RBC parameters were significantly higher in all of the patients than with the reference range, however, 3 patients had % RBC fragments within the reference range. The mean value of ADAMTS-13 activity was slightly lower in patients compared with the reference range. Of the 12 patients, remission was obtained in 9 patients (75%) within 4 to 5 weeks using plasma exchanges. Three patients died. An increased percentage of microcytic hyperchromic cells with anisocytosis and anisochromia indicated the presence of schistocytes, making it an excellent screening marker for TAMOF. Identification of TAMOF with RBC parameters and a V/HC cytogram is a facile and rapid method along with an automated hematology analyzer already in use for routine complete blood cell counting test.
Quantitative trait loci analysis for peripheral blood parameters in a (BALB/cW  C57BL/6J-Mpl (hlb219)/J) F(2) mice.	The genetic basis of the peripheral blood cell parameters is not fully elucidated. Thus, it is essential to research the correlation between blood cell counts levels and the genome in laboratory animals and subsequently in humans. In the present study, we examined 288 F(2) mice from a cross between BALB/cW and C57BL/6J-Mpl(hlb219)/J. The C57BL/6J-Mpl (hlb219)/J strain is a mouse model of thrombocytopenia. We found very strong correlations for PLT counts and revealed some highly significant correlations for RBC counts. On the basis of the obtained results, we presume that genetic control of erythrocyte parameters is divided into two pathways: first, the morphological determinants responsible for the red blood cell count (RBC), hematocrit (HCT), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV), and second, the functional pathway determining the hemoglobin content (HGB). The locus on Chromosome 4 is the only detected quantitative trait locus (QTL) influencing the analyzed platelets parameters. We also detected highly significant correlations for erythrocyte parameters on Chromosome 1 (RBC, MCV, MCH), Chr 7 (HGB), Chr 9 (MCHC), Chr 11 (RBC), and Chr 17 (MCH). Finally, with regards to the given correlations, using the Mouse Genome Database resource, we proposed candidate genes with possible meaning for the level of these parameters: cytokine receptor genes (e.g., Mpl), transcription factor genes (e.g., Xbp1, Ikzf1), hemoglobin chain genes (e.g., Hbb-b1, Hbb-ar), and many others localized in the confidence intervals of found QTLs.
Successful use of hirudin during cardiac surgery using minimized extracorporeal circulation in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	In this case series, we describe our successful use of a reduced hirudin dosage as an anticoagulant during cardiac surgery using minimized extracorporeal circulation in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
PF4/heparin-antibody complex induces monocyte tissue factor expression and release of tissue factor positive microparticles by activation of FcRI.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a potentially devastating form of drug-induced thrombocytopenia that occurs in patients receiving heparin for prevention or treatment of thrombosis. Patients with HIT develop autoantibodies to the platelet factor 4 (PF4)/heparin complex, which is termed the HIT Ab complex. Despite a decrease in the platelet count, the most feared complication of HIT is thrombosis. The mechanism of thrombosis in HIT remains poorly understood. We investigated the effects of the HIT Ab complex on tissue factor (TF) expression and release of TF-positive microparticles in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and monocytes. To model these effects ex vivo, we used a murine mAb specific for the PF4/heparin complex (KKO), as well as plasma from patients with HIT. We found that the HIT Ab complex induced TF expression in monocytes and the release of TF-positive microparticles. Further, we found that induction of TF is mediated via engagement of the FcRI receptor and activation of the MEK1-ERK1/2 signaling pathway. Our data suggest that monocyte TF may contribute to the development of thrombosis in patients with HIT.
Are platelet volume indices of clinical use? A multidisciplinary review.	Platelet size correlates with platelet activity and can be assessed by platelet volume indices (PVI). The PVI, mean platelet volume (MPV), is universally available with routine blood counts by automated hemograms and therefore is an attractive index to study in clinical scenarios. PVI are useful in assessing the etiology of thrombocytopenia. In addition, a normal platelet distribution width in the setting of thrombocytosis is highly suggestive of a reactive etiology. Higher MPV is also associated with the presence of cardiovascular risk factors, chest pain due to acute coronary syndrome, and adverse outcome after acute coronary syndrome. Results from studies evaluating MPV in patients with peripheral artery disease, unprovoked deep vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism further advocate a potential role for MPV in identifying patients at high risk of thrombosis. Nevertheless, most of these data come from retrospective studies some of which have small study populations and confounding factors influencing platelet volume. Moreover, the cut-off values derived from these retrospective studies have not been validated prospectively. Despite the potential for clinical utility evident from these studies, the above-mentioned flaws together with technical problems in measuring MPV currently limit its clinical usefulness. Our review provides a perspective on PVI's potential clinical use.
Spontaneous remission of cytomegalovirus-related immune thrombocytopenia in a healthy adult]	A previously healthy 59-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital due to petechiae. Investigations showed profound thrombocytopenia (1.510(4)/l) and mild elevation of transaminases. The serological examination revealed acute cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. We intermittently measured CMV load in her clinical course. The petechiae improved with no therapy. One month later, the platelet count was increased up to 7.610(4)/l and CMV-DNA was reduced to undetectable levels. CMV-induced thrombocytopenia in an immunocompetent adult is rare. We also recognized the association of platelet counts and virus load in the natural course of this patient with CMV-induced thrombocytopenia.
Proteomics-based identification of haptoglobin as a favourable serum biomarker for predicting long-term response to splenectomy in patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia.	Splenectomy is the most effective treatment for patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) who fail to respond to steroid therapy. Thus far, there is no effective means to predict the long-term haematological response of the procedure. The purpose of this study was to identify serum biomarkers as predictors of long-term response based on a proteomics approach.
An uncommon case of acute brucellosis presenting with severe thrombocytopenia.	A 49-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with complaints of fatigue, epistaxis and a skin rash. The whole blood count revealed isolated thrombocytopenia (4,000/mL), and the patient was admitted to the hematology department with a diagnosis of immune thrombocytopenia. He did not respond to steroid treatment for 15 days, and a subfebrile fever developed during this period. A diagnosis of acute brucellosis was considered due to positive serological tests and a blood culture positive for Brucella spp. After starting doxycycline and rifampicin therapy, the patient's thrombocyte count increased to 15,000/mL on the third day, to 41,000/mL on the sixth day and was normal on the 21st day of treatment. A diagnosis of brucellosis must be considered in patients presenting with severe and isolated thrombocytopenia in countries where brucellosis is endemic.
A copula model for marked point processes.	Many chronic diseases feature recurring clinically important events. In addition, however, there often exists a random variable which is realized upon the occurrence of each event reflecting the severity of the event, a cost associated with it, or possibly a short term response indicating the effect of a therapeutic intervention. We describe a novel model for a marked point process which incorporates a dependence between continuous marks and the event process through the use of a copula function. The copula formulation ensures that event times can be modeled by any intensity function for point processes, and any multivariate model can be specified for the continuous marks. The relative efficiency of joint versus separate analyses of the event times and the marks is examined through simulation under random censoring. An application to data from a recent trial in transfusion medicine is given for illustration. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling-based optimisation of administration schedule for the histone deacetylase inhibitor abexinostat (S78454/PCI-24781) in phase I.	Abexinostat, an oral pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), was evaluated in patients with advanced solid tumours in two single agent phase I studies (PCYC-402 and CL1-78454-002). In PCYC-402 study testing four different administration schedules, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was established at 75 mg/m(2) BID (twice daily) and the recommended dose at 60 mg/m(2) BID regardless of the schedule tested. The dose limiting toxicity (DLT), consistently observed across all these schedules, was reversible thrombocytopenia. The CL1-78454-002 study was initially investigating an additional schedule of 14 days on/7 days off. While testing two first cohorts, thrombocytopenia was observed without reaching DLT. To address this issue, a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) model was used to predict the optimal schedule allowing higher doses with minimal thrombocytopenia. Several administration schedules were simulated using this model. A 4 days on/3 days off schedule was associated with the smallest platelet decrease. Accordingly, the CL1-78454-002 study was amended. After reaching MTD1 (75 mg/m(2) BID) with the initial schedule, subsequent cohorts received abexinostat on a revised schedule of 4 days on/3 days off, starting at one dose level below MTD1 (60 mg/m(2) BID). As expected, the dose-escalation continued for two more dose levels beyond MTD1. The MTD2 reached for this optimised schedule was 105 mg/m(2) BID and the recommended dose 90 mg/m(2) BID. In conclusion, early understanding of toxicities and PK determination allowed us to build a PK/PD model of thrombocytopenia, which predicted the optimal administration schedule. This optimised schedule is currently used in the trials in solid tumours with abexinostat.
Defective tubulin organization and proplatelet formation in murine megakaryocytes lacking Rac1 and Cdc42.	Blood platelets are anuclear cell fragments that are essential for blood clotting. Platelets are produced by bone marrow megakaryocytes (MKs), which extend protrusions, or so-called proplatelets, into bone marrow sinusoids. Proplatelet formation requires a profound reorganization of the MK actin and tubulin cytoskeleton. Rho GTPases, such as RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42, are important regulators of cytoskeletal rearrangements in platelets; however, the specific roles of these proteins during platelet production have not been established. Using conditional knockout mice, we show here that Rac1 and Cdc42 possess redundant functions in platelet production and function. In contrast to a single-deficiency of either protein, a double-deficiency of Rac1 and Cdc42 in MKs resulted in macrothrombocytopenia, abnormal platelet morphology, and impaired platelet function. Double-deficient bone marrow MKs matured normally in vivo but displayed highly abnormal morphology and uncontrolled fragmentation. Consistently, a lack of Rac1/Cdc42 virtually abrogated proplatelet formation in vitro. Strikingly, this phenotype was associated with severely defective tubulin organization, whereas actin assembly and structure were barely affected. Together, these results suggest that the combined action of Rac1 and Cdc42 is crucial for platelet production, particularly by regulating microtubule dynamics. 
Blood platelet kinetics and platelet transfusion.	The discovery of citrate anticoagulant in the 1920s and the development of plastic packs for blood collection in the 1960s laid the groundwork for platelet transfusion therapy on a scale not previously possible. A major limitation, however, was the finding that platelet concentrates prepared from blood anticoagulated with citrate were unsuitable for transfusion because of platelet clumping. We found that this could be prevented by simply reducing the pH of platelet-rich plasma to about 6.5 prior to centrifugation. We used this approach to characterize platelet kinetics and sites of platelet sequestration in normal and pathologic states and to define the influence of variables such as anticoagulant and ABO incompatibility on post-transfusion platelet recovery. The "acidification" approach enabled much wider use of platelet transfusion therapy until alternative means of producing concentrates suitable for transfusion became available. 
A phase 2 study of ruxolitinib, an oral JAK1 and JAK2 Inhibitor, in patients with advanced polycythemia vera who are refractory or intolerant to hydroxyurea.	Polycythemia vera (PV) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm associated with somatic gain-of-function mutations of Janus kinase-2 (JAK2). Therapeutic options are limited in patients with advanced disease. Ruxolitinib, an oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor, is active in preclinical models of PV. The long-term efficacy and safety of ruxolitinib in patients with advanced PV who are refractory or intolerant to hydroxyurea were studied in a phase 2 trial.
Transient vinblastine-induced thrombocytopenia during chemotherapy with vinblastine, cis-platinum and bleomycin.	An early, transient drop in peripheral blood platelets to a mean nadir value of 49% (range 31-83%) of the pretreatment value was seen in 31 patients during chemotherapy with cis-platinum, vinblastine and bleomycin (PVB). The mean number of platelets dropped by 22% during the first 24 h after the start of chemotherapy, nadir value was seen after 3 d, with recovery to 107% of pretreatment level on d 14-15. Platelet survival studies during PVB chemotherapy showed shortened platelet survival time and indicated increased destruction of platelets. Identical patterns of early, transient thrombocytopenia were seen in 6 patients treated with vinblastine only. The early fall in circulating platelets did not predict subsequent serious thrombocytopenia. There were no bleeding episodes in the 37 patients studied here, but the early thrombocytopenia seen after vinblastine therapy may possibly be of clinical importance in critically ill patients at risk for bleeding episodes. In rats, an early drop in circulating platelets occurred after a high dose of vinblastine, but not after bleomycin. Addition of bleomycin to vinblastine did not increase the vinblastine-induced thrombocytopenia. It is concluded that the early drop in peripheral blood platelets during chemotherapy with PVB is due to vinblastine.
Ten-year screening for thrombocytopenia after aortic valve replacement.	Thrombocytopenia is very common after cardiac surgery, but rarely studied systematically. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia has been studied extensively, but the diagnosis remains clouded by the lack of sensitivity and specificity of laboratory tests. It remains unknown whether a local initiative of screening program has been successful in the management of postoperative thrombocytopenia.
Isolated thrombocytopenia in patients infected with HIV: treatment with intravenous gammaglobulin.	Isolated thrombocytopenia occurs frequently in patients infected with HIV. Studies of mechanisms of thrombocytopenia and clinical response to therapy suggest that the thrombocytopenia is often antibody mediated (ITP). The best approach to treatment of these patients is uncertain in that the routine modalities (steroids, splenectomy, vinca alkaloids) that are used to increase the platelet count in patients with classic ITP are known to be immunosuppressive. We report here the results of intravenous gammaglobulin (IVGG) treatment of 22 patients with HIV-related acute and chronic ITP who had severe thrombocytopenia and bleeding symptoms. Only one patient had an opportunistic infection at the time of treatment. Eight patients were homosexual, eight had hemophilia, three were i.v. drug abusers, two children had congenital acquisition of HIV, and one was the wife of an HIV + i.v. drug abuser. The average pretreatment platelet count was 22,000/microliter (hemophiliacs were treated at higher platelet counts than were the other patients), and the mean peak platelet count measured on days 5 to 8 was 182,000/microliter. Nineteen of 22 patients had peak platelet counts greater than 50,000/microliter following IVGG and 17/22 had peak counts greater than 100,000/microliter. After the initial infusions, all but three refractory patients could maintain adequate platelet counts with IVGG alone infused no more often than once every 2 weeks. The outcomes for the 22 patients after multiple maintenance IVGG infusions were remission, 5; stable without therapy, 1; maintenance, 13; and refractory, 3. The eight hemophiliacs with ITP responded better than did the eight homosexual ITP patients; their mean peak platelet count was 227,000/microliter versus 142,000/microliter in the homosexuals. In summary, patients with HIV-related ITP without opportunistic infections responded well to IVGG, with peak platelet counts comparable to those of ITP patients not infected with HIV. IVGG may be a useful therapy of ITP in HIV+ patients, since it appears to be less immunosuppressive than are conventional therapies, and none of the 22 HIV+ patients developed an opportunistic infection while receiving IVGG alone.
Management of thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis: a review.	Thrombocytopenia is a common complication in liver disease and can adversely affect the treatment of liver cirrhosis, limiting the ability to administer therapy and delaying planned surgical/diagnostic procedures because of an increased risk of bleeding. Multiple factors, including splenic sequestration, reduced activity of the hematopoietic growth factor thrombopoietin, bone marrow suppression by chronic hepatitis C virus infection and anti-cancer agents, and antiviral treatment with interferon-based therapy, can contribute to the development of thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients. Of these factors, the major mechanisms for thrombocytopenia in liver cirrhosis are (1) platelet sequestration in the spleen; and (2) decreased production of thrombopoietin in the liver. Several treatment options, including platelet transfusion, interventional partial splenic embolization, and surgical splenectomy, are now available for severe thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients. Although thrombopoietin agonists and targeted agents are alternative tools for noninvasively treating thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis, their ability to improve thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients is under investigation in clinical trials. In this review, we propose a treatment approach to thrombocytopenia according to our novel concept of splenic volume, and we describe the current management of thrombocytopenia due to liver cirrhosis. 
Rapid and correct prediction of thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenemia with rotational thromboelastometry in cardiac surgery.	In the present study, the authors have investigated whether rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) could predict thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenemia in cardiac surgery using the clot amplitude after 5 minutes (A5). Another parameter, PLTEM, in which the contribution of fibrinogen is eliminated by subtracting a fibrin-specific ROTEM test (FIBTEM) from an extrinsically-activated ROTEM test (EXTEM), was investigated. Furthermore, the turnaround time of ROTEM was compared to conventional laboratory tests.
Successful splenectomy in May-Hegglin anomaly: report of a case with platelet kinetic studies.	Bleeding diathesis is not necessarily one of the conspicuous and serious characteristics of the macrothrombocytopenic syndromes, which include the May-Hegglin anomaly. Nevertheless, occasionally prolonged bleeding time may endanger organs or even life. We report a case of a young girl with severe thrombocytopenia due to May-Hegglin anomaly, who was facing blindness because of intraocular haemorrhages. Being unable to intervene in the pathogenesis of the disease, we performed splenectomy after proving splenic sequestration of platelets. This procedure allowed the performance of a successful bilateral vitrectomy.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	Thrombocytopenia is a lesser known but significant complication of heparin therapy. Heparin-dependent, antibody-mediated thrombocytopenia may be accompanied by hemorrhagic or thrombotic sequelae. Thrombosis is more frequent and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Diagnostic laboratory findings include a variable reduction in the platelet count during heparin administration and the presence of heparin-dependent platelet-associated antibodies that can induce in vitro platelet aggregation. Discontinuing heparin is the primary treatment, although other therapies may be used. This review discusses clinical features, pathophysiology, laboratory findings, and treatment alternatives.
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura: autoimmune or immune complex disease?	To assess the pathogenic role of circulating immune complexes (CIC) in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), 39 patients with ITP were compared to 17 patients with other forms of thrombocytopenia (hypersplenism (N = 12), impaired thrombopoiesis (3), thrombocytopenia of unknown origin (2)) and six nonthrombocytopenic subjects. In all patients, platelet mean life span (MLS), platelet associated IgG (PAIgG), as well as circulating anti-platelet antibodies and C1q binding activities were determined. In most cases, immune complex solubilization capacity (ICSC) and immune complex precipitation inhibition capacity (ICPIC) of sera were also assessed. All patients with ITP had a reduced platelet MLS, but PAIgG was elevated in only 16 out of 24 patients with chronic ITP, in six out of 10 patients with acute ITP and in four out of five patients with secondary ITP. In the group of patients with thrombocytopenia due to splenomegaly, seven out of 12 patients had elevated PAIgG while the platelet MLS was only slightly reduced. Of the 39 patients with ITP only one with secondary ITP had C1q binding material in his serum, as opposed to six out of 12 thrombocytopenic patients with splenomegaly. Whereas only three patients with ITP had abnormal immune-complex modulating capacities, such deviations were found in seven out of 12 patients with thrombocytopenia due to splenomegaly. We conclude that our data render the role of CIC in the pathogenesis of ITP very questionable.
The heparin-induced thrombocytopenia syndrome: an update.	One hundred sixty-nine patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia are reported and compared with the 62 patients reported in 1983. Prompt recognition of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and immediate cessation of heparin administration lowered the complication and death rates from 61% (38/62) to 22.5% (38/169) and from 23% (14/62) to 12% (21/169), respectively. Platlet count and duration of heparin administration were not useful in predicting the outcome of the heparin-induced thrombocytopenia syndrome. Patients who received heparin in therapeutic doses were at higher risk for developing complications than were patients receiving lower doses of heparin. Platelet aggregation tests became negative as early as 7 days after discontinuation of heparin but persisted as long as 28 months. Heparin reexposure (2 days to 34 months after positive aggregation studies) was uneventful in 13 of 15 patients, whereas two patients suffered devastating thrombotic complications. Five patients continued to receive heparin despite positive platelet aggregation tests. The serious complications suffered by two of these five patients illustrate the necessity to discontinue heparin as soon as the diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is established.
Do extra-platelet sources contribute to the plasma level of thrombospondin?	Thrombospondin, a trimeric glycoprotein contained in the platelet alpha-granules, has been proposed as a marker of in vivo platelet activation. However, it is also synthesised by a range of other cells. The extraplatelet contribution to plasma levels of thrombospondin was therefore estimated by investigating the relationship between plasma thrombospondin levels and platelet count in samples from profoundly thrombocytopenic patients with marrow hypoplasia, using the platelet-specific alpha-granule protein beta-thromboglobulin as control. Serum concentrations of both proteins were highly correlated with platelet count, but while plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels and platelet count also correlated, there was no relationship between the number of platelets and thrombospondin concentrations in plasma. Serial sampling of patients recovering from bone marrow depression indicated that the plasma thrombospondin contributed by platelets is superimposed on a background concentration of at least 50 ng/ml probably derived from a non-platelet source, and plasma thrombospondin levels do not simply reflect platelet release.
Prostacyclin degradation in patients with quantitative platelet disorders.	Plasma prostacyclin (PGI2) degradation rates were measured at 1, 5, 15 and 30 min in a group of patients with platelet quantitative disorders of various pathogeneses, including 13 with thrombocytosis, 16 with thrombocytopenia from impaired production in the bone marrow, 11 with thrombocytopenia from peripheral destruction, and 28 normal, healthy persons. Patients with thrombocytosis had a low PGI2 degradation rate, whereas patients with thrombocytopenia due to impaired production had a high PGI2 degradation rate. Of the patients with thrombocytopenia caused by peripheral destruction, six with idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP) had a slow PGI2 degradation in contrast to five with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) - four concurrently had cryoglobulinemia - who had a rapid PGI2 degradation. The findings suggest that: (1) a platelet-derived substance in the human plasma may have a PGI2 stabilising activity; (2) presence of cryoglobulin or immune complex in plasma may interfere with PGI2 stability.
The effect of protamine sulfate on platelet function.	The adverse effects of protamine sulfate, used to neutralize the anticoagulant action of heparin, include systemic hypotension, pulmonary artery hypertension, thrombocytopenia and leukopenia. For further evaluation of protamine's mechanism of action, a three-part investigation was performed. In part I platelet-rich plasma (PRP) was prepared from canine blood samples (n = 6) taken before and 2 minutes after injection of protamine. In part II human PRP (n = 5) was preincubated with protamine or distilled water. Adenosine diphosphate-induced aggregation of protamine-treated platelets was unchanged, but thrombin-induced aggregation was inhibited in both canine and human preparations (p less than 0.05). In part III thrombocytopenia was produced in splenectomized dogs (n = 5), using microporous filters, to 4.5-8.4% of the initial platelet count. Protamine reversal of the heparinization caused hypotension (maximally -29 mmHg 90 s after protamine), but not pulmonary arterial hypertension. Leukopenia developed before additional thrombocytopenia appeared. Protamine-platelet interaction inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation. Platelets may play an important role in the pulmonary pressure rise during protamine reversal, but do not mediate the systemic hypotension.
Detection of drug-dependent platelet antibodies using immobilized Staphylococcal protein A.	Serum samples from eight patients suspected of having drug-induced immunologic thrombocytopenia provoked by a variety of medications were tested for drug-dependent platelet antibodies with a newly developed assay that forms rosettes of antibody-coated platelets around Staphylococcal protein A-Sepharose beads. The same samples were then tested with immunofluorescence and 51Cr-release assays. Seven of eight patients (87.5%) tested positive for drug-dependent antibodies by the rosette assay. In contrast, two of eight (25.0%) and one of eight (12.5%) patients tested positive for drug-dependent antibodies by immunofluorescence and 51Cr release, respectively. These results demonstrate that the new rosette method is significantly more sensitive and specific for the detection of drug-dependent platelet antibodies than either immunofluorescence or 51Cr release.
Management of alloimmune thrombocytopenia: antenatal diagnosis and in utero transfusion of maternal platelets.	Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT) can cause severe bleeding in the central nervous system (CNS) and death or severe neurologic sequelae. The expression of the PLA1 antigen is detectable as early as 19 weeks of gestation. Alloimmunization can therefore lead to fetal thrombocytopenia very early in pregnancy. Until recently, we have had no means of detecting and assessing the severity of fetal thrombocytopenia during pregnancy. The level of the maternal antibody is not of a predictable value since 20% of the mothers had no circulating antibodies in our series. An alternative approach is to carry out investigations on fetal blood samplings. This management leads to an exact knowledge of the fetal status and antenatal diagnosis is feasible as early as the 21st week of gestation. Early diagnosis facilitates appropriate management and makes possible such therapeutic options as in utero maternal platelet transfusions. We report our experience in the antenatal diagnosis and management of nine cases with in utero transfusion in the six cases with severe thrombocytopenia. All neonates did well, with no signs of bleeding at birth. No side effects of therapy were noted after a period ranging from 6 months to 3 years.
Buccal mucosa bleeding times of healthy dogs and of dogs in various pathologic states, including thrombocytopenia, uremia, and von Willebrand's disease.	The buccal mucosa bleeding time (BMBT; duration of hemorrhage from standardized cuts made with a spring-loaded disposable device in the mucosal surface of the upper lip) was used to evaluate the hemostatic competence of dogs. The mean (+/- SD) BMBT for 34 healthy dogs was 2.62 +/- 0.49 minutes. The BMBT of healthy dogs anesthetized with halothane or tranquilized with xylazine were not significantly different from the BMBT of healthy dogs evaluated without chemical restraint. The BMBT was significantly (P less than 0.01) prolonged 21 hours after aspirin (10 mg/kg of body weight) was administered orally to 10 healthy dogs; however, the mean aspirin-induced increase in BMBT was only 0.40 minutes. The BMBT of 28 of 30 dogs with various diseases not traditionally associated with hemostatic deficiencies were near or within the range of BMBT for healthy dogs; however, 2 dogs had BMBT of greater than 8 minutes. In contrast, BMBT were prolonged in most dogs with diseases known to induce deficient primary hemostasis; the 3 dogs with thrombocytopenia (less than or equal to 20,000 platelets/microliter), the 7 Doberman Pinschers with von Willebrand's disease (von Willebrand factor antigen; less than or equal to 18 U/dl), and 5 of the 6 dogs with severe azotemia (serum urea nitrogen; greater than or equal to 124 mg/dl) had prolonged BMBT. The BMBT of 16 dogs were determined immediately before they were subjected to various surgical procedures, and the severity of the hemorrhage encountered during these procedures was subjectively evaluated; the amount of hemorrhage from 12 of the 16 dogs was considered to be appropriate for the corresponding surgical procedures, but the remaining 4 dogs bled excessively during surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anti-platelet opsonic activity in alloimmune and autoimmune thrombocytopenia.	A chemiluminescence technique (CLT) has been developed which measures the interaction between human monocytes and antibody-coated (opsonized) platelets. This technique has an objective end-point, is simple to perform and is of comparable sensitivity to the platelet suspension immunofluorescence test (PSIFT) when used to detect anti-platelet allo-antibodies. In contrast, only 4/20 sera from patients with clinically diagnosed autoimmune thrombocytopenia were opsonic in the CLT, while 8/20 of these same sera bound IgG to platelets in the PSIFT. Only one serum gave positive results in both tests.
Platelet count and thrombopoietic activity in patients with chronic renal failure.	The frequency of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) is controversial. This study was undertaken to investigate the platelet count in 55 patients with end-stage renal disease on maintenance hemodialysis and in 19 patients with CRF before hemodialysis had begun. In both groups platelet counts were similar and significantly reduced, 175,000 +/- 6,500 and 181,000 +/- 10,800 compared to 253,000 +/- 3,700/mm3 in the control (p less than 0.0001). 31% of hemodialysis patients had thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 150,000/mm3). The megakaryocyte number in their bone marrow aspirate was not reduced. Primary renal disease, androgen treatment or parathyroidectomy did not affect the platelet count. Thrombopoietic activity using 75Se-selenomethionine incorporation into platelets measured in 7 thrombocytopenic patients was found to be reduced, 6.77 +/- 0.29 vs. 9.06 +/- 0.27 (X 10(-2)%: p less than 0.001). This study shows that the platelet count is reduced and mild thrombocytopenia is frequent in patients with CRF. A possible cause for the platelet count reduction is insufficient thrombopoietic activity.
Evidence for the involvement of platelet glycoproteins other than GP Ib in heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis.	Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HATT) is a potentially fatal complication of heparin therapy which is characterized by a progressive fall in the platelet count associated with arterial or venous thrombosis. The etiology is consistent with the development an antibody which, in the presence of heparin, induces intravascular platelet aggregation. Biochemical analysis has demonstrated that the platelet membrane glycoprotein (GP) Ib binds heparin. Recent studies have shown that polyclonal antisera or monoclonal antibodies to GP Ib can inhibit platelet aggregation induced by HATT plasma in the presence of heparin implicating GP Ib as the site of heparin-antibody interaction. The Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS) is an inherited bleeding disorder in which the platelets fail to adhere to exposed subendothelium due to a deficiency of GP Ib. We have used the platelets from a patient with documented BSS to further investigate the role of GP Ib in the heparin- dependent platelet aggregation induced by the plasma of three patients with HATT. We have shown that platelet aggregation by HATT plasma in the presence of heparin occurred as readily with BSS platelets as with normal donor platelets. These results indicate that glycoprotein Ib cannot be the only site of platelet-heparin-antibody interactions.
Detection of circulating human platelet fragments by using monoclonal antibodies against platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa complex.	A radioimmunoassay (RIA) for the detection of platelets and platelet fragments was developed. A sandwich of two monoclonal antibodies directed against the platelet-specific glycoprotein complex IIb-IIIa (GP IIb-IIIa) was used in this assay. A discontinuous 7.5-20% (v/v) albumin gradient was applied to separate platelets and their fragments of various sizes. In platelet suspensions fractionated in this way, we observed that particles smaller than normal platelets still carried the GP IIb-IIIa antigens. This procedure enabled us to detect platelet-derived particles in platelet-rich plasma from thrombocytopenic patients.
A novel platelet aggregating factor found in a patient with defective collagen-induced platelet aggregation and autoimmune thrombocytopenia.	We found a novel platelet aggregating factor in a patient with steroid-responsive immune thrombocytopenic purpura that is associated with defective collagen-induced platelet functions. The aggregating factor and platelet functions were analyzed. The patient, a 58-year-old female, had purpura and prolonged bleeding time despite adequate platelet counts (greater than 140,000/microL) after steroid therapy. The patient's platelets responded normally to all agonists except collagen. Platelet adhesion to collagen fibrils was decreased. The patient's plasma induced irreversible aggregation and ATP release in normal platelet-rich plasma (PRP). This platelet aggregating factor was found in F(ab')2 fragments of the patient's IgG, which caused thromboxane B2 synthesis, elevation of cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels, and phosphorylation of 40 kDa protein in normal platelets. Platelet aggregation by the patient's IgG was inhibited by prostacyclin, dibutyryl cAMP, diltiazem, disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and antimycin A plus iodoacetate, but ADP scavengers, cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors, and heparin had little or no effect. The aggregating activity of the patient's IgG absorbed to and eluted from normal platelets. The patient's Fab fragments did not induce platelet aggregation in eight of ten normal PRP but specifically inhibited aggregation induced by collagen and by the patient's IgG. The major component of an immunoprecipitate made with the patient's IgG from radiolabeled membrane proteins of normal platelet extract had a 62 kDa mol wt, while no such precipitate appeared in extracts of the patient's platelets. These results indicated that platelet aggregation by the patient's IgG was induced by the reaction of an antibody with a specific antigen on the normal platelet membrane through stimulus-response coupling. This antigen may be a collagen receptor on the platelet, most likely a polypeptide of 62 kDa under reducing condition. The defect of collagen-induced aggregation of the patient's platelets seemed to be due to alteration of the membrane protein related to this putative collagen receptor.
Plasma glycocalicin. An aid in the classification of thrombocytopenic disorders.	In some patients with thrombocytopenia, it is difficult to determine whether the condition is caused by underproduction of platelets (reduced numbers of megakaryocytes) or an increase in the rate of their destruction (normal or increased numbers of megakaryocytes). A non-invasive test to help distinguish between these two categories of thrombocytopenia would be useful. We related the plasma concentration of glycocalicin, a fragment of the platelet-membrane glycoprotein Ib, to the mechanism of thrombocytopenia by evaluating bone marrow megakaryocyte content and measuring platelet life span. Plasma glycocalicin was measured with a monoclonal antibody to the glycocalicin component of platelet glycoprotein Ib. The mean (+/- SD) plasma concentration of glycocalicin in 34 healthy controls was 87 +/- 20 percent of the level in pooled normal plasma (range, 52 to 127 percent). All of eight patients with aplastic anemia or amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia confirmed by examining bone marrow (in all patients) and by determining the life span of autologous platelets (in six patients) had glycocalicin levels significantly below the normal range (5 to 27 percent). In contrast, each of 25 patients with thrombocytopenia thought to be caused by a reduction in platelet life span, whose bone marrow contained normal or increased numbers of megakaryocytes, had glycocalicin levels that fell within or above the normal range (48 to 261 percent). There was no overlap of values between the two patient populations. These studies indicate that the measurement of plasma glycocalicin may be a useful adjunct in classifying thrombocytopenic disorders.
Platelets in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura are increased in size but are of normal density.	To determine whether platelet size and volume are related to one another or to platelet age, subpopulations of platelets from patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) have been produced on the basis of density using Percoll gradients. The density distribution of platelets from patients with ITP and from patients with other forms of thrombocytopenia (thought to be nonimmune in nature) was the same as in normal controls. However, the platelets in each density subpopulation from ITP patients were increased in size. beta-thromboglobulin (beta TG) content of platelets from each patient group and the normals increased with density and tended to be higher in ITP than in normal controls. beta TG concentration per unit platelet volume and its level in plasma were similar in ITP patients and in normal controls. This suggests that the apparently normal density of ITP platelets was not a result of degranulation of large, dense platelets. Thus platelet size and density are independently determined and the increased size of platelets in immune thrombocytopenia may be the result of abnormalities in their production.
Schistocytosis, aminotransferase elevation and thrombocytopenia in preeclampsia/eclampsia.	Some preeclamptic patients have schistocytosis, abnormal liver function tests and thrombocytopenia. To determine how strongly these three abnormalities cluster with each other, a sequential series of 49 preeclamptic or eclamptic patients was analyzed for the presence of schistocytosis, serum aminotransferase elevation and thrombocytopenia. These three abnormalities were found less often together (the HELLP syndrome) than singly or in pairs. These data do not clearly separate HELLP patients from other preeclamptic patients.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia in the neurosurgical patient.	Although thrombocytopenia occurs in approximately 10% of medical patients who receive heparin, this complication has not been described in neurosurgical patients. We report the clinical course of two patients who in the immediate postoperative period developed heparin-associated thrombocytopenia that resulted in significant morbidity. In these two cases, the origin of the heparin was in "flush" solutions used to maintain the patency of indwelling vascular catheters and was infused at a dose of 250 to 500 units/day. The minimal daily dose previously reported to result in thrombocytopenia is 9000 units/day administered in divided doses subcutaneously. The case reports indicate that heparin in "flush" solutions should be considered as a cause for unexpected thrombocytopenia and that platelet counts should be monitored in patients receiving heparin in any amount.
Inherited thrombocytopenia, elevated serum IgA and renal disease: identification as a variant of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	A kindred with X-linked hereditary thrombocytopenia in association with elevated serum IgA and a mild nephropathy is described. Thirteen males with thrombocytopenia were identified in three generations amongst 49 family members who were available for screening. Serious infective sequelae were absent but five patients had suffered from severe eczema since infancy. The platelet volume as measured by an automated counter and electron microscopy was reduced compared with normal and in vitro tests demonstrated minor abnormalities of immune function in three patients. The disorder is identified as a novel variant of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome and comparisons are made with previously described kindreds showing different patterns of expression.
Platelet-associated immunoglobulins IgG, IgM, IgA and complement C3 in immune and nonimmune thrombocytopenic disorders.	A two-stage radioactive antiglobulin test--using unlabelled antisera specific for IgG, IgA, IgM and C3 followed by binding of 125I-staphylococcal protein A--was applied to determine platelet-associated immunoglobulins (PAIg) and complement (PAC3) in thrombocytopenias of various etiologies. One hundred and one patients with immune thrombocytopenia (chronic autoimmune, 48; acute autoimmune, 37; Evans syndrome, nine; connective tissue diseases, seven) and 20 patients with presumed nonimmune thrombocytopenia (bone marrow aplasia or malignancy, six; septicemia, five; hypersplenism, five; cirrhosis of liver, three; others, one) were studied. Increased levels of PAIg/C3 were found in 76% of patients with immune thrombocytopenia. PAIgG was raised in 66%, PAIgM in 57%, PAIgA in 44%, and PAC3 in 29%. Isolated elevation of PAIgG and of PAIgM was found in four and three cases, respectively; PAIgA and PAC3 were elevated in one case each. PAIgG was associated with PAIgM in 56%, with PAIgA in 34%, and with PAC3 in 27%. Both patients with Evans' syndrome and patients with connective tissue diseases had significantly higher PAIgM levels than the other patients with immune thrombocytopenia. In patients with nonimmune thrombocytopenia, increased rates of PAIg/C3 were also encountered. Positive test results were found in 88% (PAIgG 88%, PAIgM 47%, PAIgA 35%, and PAC3 24%). In immune-mediated thrombocytopenia, we observed a significant inverse correlation between platelet counts and PAIgG, PAIgA, and PAC3, but not with PAIgM. In contrast, no such correlation was found in patients with nonimmune thrombocytopenia. Our data indicate that the evaluation of neither parameter alone nor the combination of PAIg/C3 will discriminate between immune and nonimmune thrombocytopenia. Preferential coating with certain immunoglobulins, however, may be present in some subgroups of immune thrombocytopenias.
Different platelet specificities of heparin-dependent platelet aggregating factors in heparin-associated immune thrombocytopenia.	Delayed onset heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) is thought to be a result of formation of antiplatelet antibodies which cause platelet aggregation in the presence of heparin. Platelet aggregation in response to serum from patients with HAT has been studied in platelet-rich plasma (PRP) from a panel of normal blood donors. Heparin-dependent aggregation with any HAT serum occurred in PRP from only some donors. PRP from the non-responding donors did, however, aggregate in the presence of heparin with other HAT sera. The same patterns of aggregation or lack of response to HAT sera were seen in washed platelet suspensions. Heparin (0.06-2 U/ml) did not cause aggregation in the presence of normal serum with PRP from these donors. However, in PRP from four of the 17 individuals studied, heparin (0.25-1 U/ml) alone caused rapid platelet aggregation and some HAT sera heated at 56 degrees C caused platelet aggregation without added heparin. Sub-aggregating concentrations of adrenaline could replace heparin in promoting aggregation by heated HAT sera in PRP of the other donors. HAT IgG showed the same platelet specificities as the serum in causing either heparin- or adrenaline-dependent aggregation. Thus in HAT, antibodies are directed towards different platelet antigens which are expressed differently in different individuals. Platelet activation by heparin and adrenaline either exposes these antigens or causes aggregation of antibody-coated platelets.
Effect of C3 depletion on the genesis of thrombocytopenia induced in rats by Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae.	The role of complement in the pathogenesis of marked thrombocytopenia induced in rats by Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae (E. rhusiopathiae) was examined. In cobra venom factor (CoF)-treated rats thrombocytopenia was not induced by the bacterium. The content of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in platelets was decreased significantly after inoculation only in untreated rats. E. rhusiopathiae could bind C3 and generate platelet-bacteria aggregation when incubated in the plasma diluted with veronal-buffered saline containing calcium and magnesium (VBS++) or gelatin-VBS containing magnesium and ethyleneglycol tetra-acetic acid (GVB-Mg-EGTA), but not when incubated in GVB-ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (GVB-EDTA) diluted plasma or in CoF-treated or anti rat C3-treated plasma. When platelets were preincubated with activated zymosan, no bacteria could bind to platelets. From the results, we speculate that the alternative complement pathway, activated by E. rhusiopathiae, appears to mediate the formation of platelet-bacterial aggregations that may accelerate the removal of platelets from circulating blood.
Platelet volume analysis in thrombocytopenia in relation to bleeding tendency.	It has been shown that large platelets are hemostatically more active than the smaller ones. We therefore studied the relationship between the mean platelet volume and the percentage of micro- and mega-thrombocytes measured by a Coulter counter S plus II, and the bleeding tendency in 57 unselected patients with a platelet count below 50 X 10(9)/l. We found no significant differences for any of these parameters between patients without and those with mild or severe bleeding tendency. This also held true when patients with a possible platelet dysfunction or with coagulation abnormalities were excluded. We conclude that platelet volume analysis in unselected patients with severe thrombocytopenia is not helpful in the prediction of their risk of bleeding.
Platelet behavior and aging in the circulation.	This review of the development of knowledge concerning the fate and function of circulating platelets and our recent experiments with a radioisotope label for platelet surface glycoproteins support the hypothesis that platelets are continualy involved in reversible contact interactions for the support of endothelial integrity. These encounters result in the loss of pieces of the platelet surface membrane and could contribute to the structural and functional changes of platelet senescence. The concepts of continuous involvement of platelets in hemostatic encounters and a fixed circulating lifespan are not mutually exclusive phenomena: platelet hemostatic encounters could preferentially involve younger platelets and be mostly reversible while the metabolic machinery which determines platelet survival deteriorates in a manner unrelated to these platelet-surface interactions. Obviously the nature of platelet behavior and aging in the circulation requires much more precise definition.
An in vitro measurement of bleeding time.	An in vitro method of measuring the bleeding time is described. The test, called the machine bleeding time (MBT), is not affected by heparin and detects the same types of hemostatic abnormalities as the template bleeding time. It is sensitive to thrombocytopenia, aspirin administration, and von Willebrand's disease. It is a reproducible test suitable for replicate and serial determinations and permits in vitro evaluation of the addition of drugs.
Determination of mean platelet volume in pediatric hematology. Practical value (author's transl)]	Some particle counters give a routine determination of mean platelet volume. 272 determinations of this new parameter were performed on 107 hospitalized children in the hematology field. Giant platelets are a frequent sign in peripheral thrombocytopenia, and they are never observed in central thrombocytopenia. The determination of the mean platelet volume is of value in an emergency examination for thrombocytopenia, while awaiting the results of a myelogram, and in monitoring primary thrombocytopenic purpura. In this later condition, the persistance of an increased mean platelet volume in spite of an improvement in the number of platelets should lead to a suspicion of a relapse.
Serum thrombocytopoietic activity in thrombocytopenias.	By means of a bioassay performed in rats utilizing 75Se-selenomethionine as a platelet marker in vivo, serum thrombocytopoietic activity (STA) was determined in 9 healthy volunteers and in 82 patients with thrombocytopenia, viz. 27 cases of ITP (9 acute and 18 chronic), 19 of aplastic anaemia, 19 of acute leukaemia and 17 of chronic proliferative disorders. STA was the highest in the ITP group (p less than 0.01), particularly in the cases of short duration (p less than 0.001). In acute leukaemia, the STA was remarkably elevated (p less than 0.02) and a negative correlation between STA and blood platelet count could be demonstrated. A negative correlation between STA and the duration of thrombocytopenia was also found in the patients with ITP. No significant increase of STA was observed in patients with ITP after corticosteroid administration. In 5 out of 7 cases who responded satisfactorily to splenectomy a significant fall of STA was demonstrated after surgery. A slight, but statistically significant, rise of the STA value was found in patients with aplastic anaemia (p less than 0.05). No STA elevation was observed in the cases of chronic proliferative disorders with thrombocytopenia.
Molecular defects of platelets in Bernard-Soulier syndrome.	In 1969, it was shown that platelets of patients with Bernard-Soulier (B-S) syndrome exhibited an altered electrophoretic mobility arising from a surface membrane sialic acid deficiency. Subsequent studies showed that a major membrane glycoprotein, GP Ib, was either deleted, reduced in concentration, or structurally modified in B-S platelets. Controversy persists, however, as to the specificity of the defect in platelets of different patients, especially with regard to studies performed on patients in different laboratories. We have now studied platelets from six patients, and during these studies have analyzed the platelet proteins and glycoproteins by single and two-dimensional SDS-PAGE or by crossed immunoelectrophoresis. The surface proteins of the platelets of different patients have been radiolabelled with 3H or 125I. Our studies point to the deletion or severe reduction in concentration of GPIb alpha and Ib beta in the platelets of five patients, detectable but reduced levels of Ib were present in the platelets of the other patient. Studies using 3H-labelled glycoproteins suggest that mol.wt. 82,000 (GP V) and mol.wt. 17,000 glycoproteins are also missing or abnormal. The relationship between these additional defects and the major GP Ib lesion remains to be determined. It should be emphasized that these are membrane abnormalities, no alpha-granule or cyto-plasmic protein deficiencies have been located in B-S platelets.
The domain of platelet glycoprotein I as recognized by various antibodies, both monoclonal and polyspecific.	Platelet membrane glycoprotein Ib plays a major role in the binding of factor VIII/von Willebrand factor to allow platelet adhesion to subendothelium. We have used polyspecific and monoclonal antibodies to glycoprotein Ib and have demonstrated that both antibodies were directed to glycoprotein Is, a soluble fragment of glycoprotein Ib. By showing an inhibition of the binding of factor VIII/von Willebrand factor to control platelets in presence of the antibodies, it can be concluded that glycoprotein Is is involved in these binding sites.
The defective prothrombin consumption in Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Hypotheses from 1948 to 1982.	Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS) was described in 1948 as a constitutional platelet disorder characterized by giant sized platelets, a prolonged bleeding time, and a defect in prothrombin consumption. The accurate mechanisms of these abnormalities remain unexplained, especially the defect in prothrombin consumption on which we focus in this paper. Several hypotheses are proposed: firstly, a defective reaction between the platelet membrane, where the phospholipid composition is abnormal, and the proteins which initiate thromboplastin generation such as collagen, factor XI; secondly, an abnormal reaction between thrombin, whose synthesis is increased, and its receptor, possibly glycoprotein V, which is defective; lastly, as factor VIII/vW binding is diminished, an abnormal dissociation of the complex VIII/vW-VIIIc at the site of the platelet membrane, which leads to an inactivation of factor VIIIc.
Physical, chemical and functional changes following platelet activation in normal and "giant" platelets.	Unactivated discocytes in healthy human donors have mean volumes of approximately 6.0 microns3 (range 3.8-7.5 microns3), while mean values for similarly-shaped discocytes obtained from donors with the hereditary "giant" platelet syndromes were either normal (one Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS) and all five members of a family with the Montreal platelet syndrome (MPS) or, on average, up to twice normal (range 6.4-13.8 microns3). This apparent heterogeneity is complicated by the much more consistent and significant observation that both BSS and MPS platelets undergo a defective hypervolumetric shape change following activation which is prolonged indefinitely, in contrast to a transient hypervolumetric change measureable in 1-5 s following ADP addition to normal platelets. It is suggested that the hypervolumetric shape change in both normal and "giant" platelets is accompanied by an increase in externalized plasma membrane surface area, with the most probable source being surface-connected canalicular system. Membrane glycoprotein I abnormalities were not detectable in platelets for 2/3 sibling MPS donors. The precise relation of these membrane changes to altered platelet functions is compared for normal and "giant" platelets, but largely remains to be experimentally determined. Early shape change appears tightly associated with early microscopically-measured aggregation (PA), with both PA and turbidimetrically-measured macroaggregation generally appearing normal to elevated for "giant" platelets.
Platelet size distribution in mice following immunothrombopenia and vincristine administration.	In the present study platelet size distribution was investigated after induction of immunothrombocytopenia by rabbit-anti-mouse-platelet-serum (RAMPS) and after vincristine-induced thrombocytopenia. The platelet size distribution after a single dose of RAMPS showed a shift to larger volumes at day 1 and 2, and a decrease to slightly smaller volumes than normal at day 8. These differences, however, were not statistically significant. After vincristine administration, a dose-dependent increase of the platelet size distribution was demonstrated, which lasted from day 1-7. It is suggested that in immune-induced thrombocytopenia the young platelets released from bone marrow megakaryocytes are not exclusively large platelets. On the other hand the early appearance of large platelets after vincristine administration points to a toxic or segregating effect of vincristine on circulating platelets. Therefore, in our experiments, the platelet size is not suitable for the differentiation of young and old platelets.
Major thrombopenia induced by heparin treatment. Apropos of 8 cases]	Major thrombocytopenia occupies a special place among the complications of anticoagulant therapy. Based on a series of 8 personal cases, the authors describe the clinical, biological and physiopathological features of this thrombocytopenia. It occurs in 0.5 to 1 p. 100 of patients on heparin. This figure may not be accurate and thrombocytopenia during heparin therapy occurs almost exclusively in venous thromboembolic disease which it complicated in 4 p. 100 of treated cases. It is detected around the 8th day (between the 4th and 10th day) of treatment and is characterised by thromboembolic events (2 arterial embolisms, 2 pulmonary embolisms, 1 cutaneous necrosis, 1 disseminated intravascular coagulation). Cutaneo-mucous purpura was observed in 1 case. The last two cases in this series were asymptomatic. The thrombocytopenia is peripheral (on average 36,000/mm3) and isolated without any deficiency of the factors of coagulation, except in the case of disseminated intravascular coagulation. A platelet aggregant factor was demonstrated in the plasma of these patients by a thrombo-agglutination technique. This disappeared two months after stopping the heparin. The withdrawal of heparin and relay with oral anticoagulant drugs was associated with a normalisation of the platelet count within 1 to 5 days. Physiopathologically, the high molecular weight fractions of heparin are responsible for this immuno-allergic reaction which leads to the fabrication of a heparin-dependent anti-platelet antibody.
Normal coagulation findings, thrombocytopenia, and peripheral hemoconcentration in neonatal polycythemia.	The criteria used for partial plasma exchange transfusion in 32 of 42 polycythemic newborn infants with capillary hematocrits greater than or equal to 70% were a venous hematocrit greater than 65% and two or more clinical "symptoms," or a venous hematocrit greater than or equal to 70%. Coagulation tests performed on 20 infants before and after the partial plasma exchange transfusion were normal for age. Low platelet counts found in six of the 32 patients were associated with venous hematocrits of greater than or equal to 70%. In three patients the platelet counts (less than 100,000/microliters) increased to greater than or equal to 130,000/microliters after three days. In 20 of 32 infants in whom partial plasma exchange transfusions were performed, peripheral venous hematocrits prior to the exchange were 8.5% higher than umbilical venous hematocrits. Following treatment the venous hematocrits (umbilical and peripheral) did not show a statistically significant difference. Thus, the study revealed coagulation findings normal for age, thrombocytopenia in 20% of polycythemic infants, hemoconcentration, and a sluggish peripheral venous circulation.
Accuracy of low electronic platelet counts using platelet distribution curves.	At low platelet levels electronic counts are inaccurate because background counts are an increasingly important contribution to the total count. In this study the background contribution was selectively eliminated by coupling a multichannel particle size analyzer (Coulter Channelyzer II) to an electronic counter (Coulter ZBI). Platelet counts below 50 x 10(9)/l required an adjustment of the lower threshold in 11 of 15 specimens. Non-platelet counts averaged 18 percent of the platelet particle count with a maximum value of 50 percent. In contrast, platelet counts between 50 to 100 x 10(9)/l required only a minimum adjustment of the lower threshold and extraneous counts averaged only 2.7 percent of the platelet particle count. Phase platelet counts ranging from 4.0 x 10(9)/l to 115 x 10(9)/l were compared in ZBI-Channelyzer counts in 30 patients. The electronic counts showed good agreement with the reference method. Results were statistically analyzed using linear regression analysis and paired t tests. Technical errors involved in electronic and visual platelet counts are discussed.
Haematological profile in typhoid fever.	The haematological profile in 20 culture proven patients with typhoid fever of varying age and of both sexes was studied. Significant changes observed were anaemia, leucopenia, eosinopenia, thrombocytopenia and sub-clinical disseminated intravascular coagulation. The bone marrow of typhoid patients showed myeloid maturation arrest, decrease in the number of erythroblasts and megakaryocytes with increased phagocytic activity of histiocytes.
Inhibition of platelet migration. A simple technic for typing of PLA1 and the detection  of platelet allo- and autoantibodies]	In vitro, platelets can migrate in an active way. This migration can be immunologically inhibited through specific antibodies. This test (PMI-test) can be easily carried out in any laboratory. In that study this test was used: 1) For the detection of anti-platelet allo-antibodies in neonatal thrombopenia. Out of nine cases studied, two anti-PLA1 were identified and three anti-HLA antibodies (anti-B8, anti-B17+21 and a polyspecific serum) detected thanks to the micro-lymphocyto-toxicity test were confirmed by that test. 2) To find free auto-antibodies in the sera of patients suffering from idiopathic thrombopenic purpura. In five cases out of twelve the presence of auto-antibodies could be shown, that is 41,6%. In some cases, the auto-antibodies showed a certain degree of specificity as it had already been pointed out in other studies. When the thrombopenias were associated with other diseases, all the tests were negative. 3) For the PLA1 typing of donors: 1,85% donors submitted to the test proved to be PLA1 negative. 4) To identify anti-HLA antibodies and to compare this test with the micro-lymphocyto-toxicity-test: the anti-A2, A11, B8, B17, CW3 and CW4 antibodies used titrated the same in both tests. 5) Eventually to study the possible action of ABO-system antibodies in this test; this study shows that only sera containing immune antibodies can bring about an inhibition of the incompatible platelet migration. The sensitivity of the PMI-test which has previously been mentioned as equal to platelet-lysis and superior to aggregometry and platelet factor-3 release, is superior to the complement fixation test since with an 1/16 titre in PMI test for the two anti-PLA1 antibodies, the latter could not be detected through the complement fixation test; it seems to be equal to platelet indirect radioactive Coombs since both sera titrate in the same way.
Autoimmune thrombocytopenia: anti-glycoprotein IIb/IIIa auto antibodies are reduced after human anti-D immunoglobulin treatment.	In chronic autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura (AITP), an indirect monoclonal antibody immobilised platelet antigen (MAIPA) assay detected serum glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa antibodies in 16/39 (41%) cases. In patients with clinically active AITP, a direct MAIPA assay detected platelet-associated GP IIb/IIIa kantibodies in 8/13 (62%) cases. Platelet bound and serum antibody concentrations suggested a high antibody affinity for platelet membrane glycoprotein IIb/IIIa. Five AITP patients with platelet associated glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antibodies were treated with intravenous anti D immunoglobulin. All showed an increase in platelet counts and a decrease in platelet associated autoantibody. These responses could be due to immunosuppressive anti-idiotype antibodies in anti D immunoglobulin.
Assessment of clinical impact and predisposing factors for neonatal thrombocytopenia.	Thrombocytopenia is a common hemostatic abnormality in the newborn infant. The early diagnosis of thrombocytopenia and the underlying primary pathology process play an important role in reducing the risk of severe complications and mortality. We performed a 2-year prospective study of 643 neonates admitted to our neonatology unit to determine the frequency, predisposing factors, and clinical impact of thrombocytopenia. Thrombocytopenia developed in 18.2% of the preterm neonates and 0.8% of the term neonates. Prematurity, sepsis, hypoxia, intrauterine growth retardation, and disseminated intravascular coagulation were identified as predisposing factors for thrombocytopenia. The incidence of complications and mortality were higher in thrombocytopenic infants. Especially the prognosis was worse in cases who had mucosal hemorrhage, without a relation with the degree of thrombocytopenia. The thrombocytopenia occurred by day 2 in 43% of the infants, and resolved by day 8 in 61%. The platelet count nadir occurred by day 2. Since thrombocytopenic infants are at greater risk for bleeding, and the thrombocytopenia itself may have contributed to the high mortality, predisposing factors such as prematurity, infections, hypoxia must be eliminated by providing better care, giving adequate hygiene of both mother and the baby during the prenatal, natal, and neonatal period.
Outcome of pregnancies associated with marked gestational thrombocytopenia.	The purpose of this prospective study was to investigate the outcome of pregnancies associated with marked gestational thrombocytopenias (< 100,000/mm3) including postpartum resolution and neonatal influence. Over a period of 18 months, 20 cases of thrombocytopenia were observed; of them 19 were diagnosed as gestational thrombocytopenia with platelet values of < 100,000/mm3. Fifteen women returned to a normal platelet count within two weeks after delivery and four within four weeks. No cases of thrombocytopenia were found among the infants and no cases of coagulation disturbance were observed in the mothers at delivery or in the postpartum period. The findings of the present study indicate that in cases of gestational thrombocytopenia, apart from a careful maternal and fetal surveillance, no intervention is necessary during pregnancy or delivery if there is no obstetrical indication.
Haematologic features of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in Black children in Harare.	Forty six Black Zimbabwean children aged between three months and seven years who were admitted into Parirenyatwa Central Hospital with serologically positive and symptomatic HIV infection were investigated for their haematologic profiles. Tests done included full blood counts, manual white cell differential counts, coagulation screening tests and bone marrow aspiration in clinically indicated cases. Anaemia was found in 84 pc, leucocytosis in 60 pc and thrombocytopaenia in 30 pc of the cases. In contrast to reports in adults leucopaenia or neutropaenia were not seen. Coagulation profiles were mostly normal but presumptive diagnosis of circulating coagulation inhibitor was made in one case. Morphological changes suggestive of myeloid dysplasia and in particular dysgranulopoiesis were commonly seen. Bone marrow aspirates examined in eight of the children all showed hyper or normal cellularity with adequate and productive megakaryocytes.
Dengue virus and endothelial cell: a related phenomenon to thrombocytopenia and granulocytopenia in dengue hemorrhagic fever.	Adhesion to endothelial cells by blood cells was assessed by measuring the cell number of each blood cell component in the supernatant after exposing blood cells to dengue-infected endothelial cells for 0, 10, 20 and 30 minutes. White blood cells, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets, and large lymphocytes or large unstained cells (LUC) preferentially bound to dengue-infected endothelial cells as compared to the control endothelial cells. P values were 0.0096 for total leukocytes and platelets, 0.006 for lymphocytes, and 0.001 for neutrophils and LUC. Monocytes basophils and eosinophils had no interaction with dengue-infected endothelial cells. The increased binding of neutrophil and platelet to endothelial cell may explain neutropenia and thrombocytopenia in DHF patients.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia: a survey of tests employed and attitudes in haematology laboratories. Groupe d'Etude sur l'Hmostase et la Thrombose (GEHT) de la Socit Franaise d'Hmatologie.	A survey was carried out of the attitudes adopted in French laboratories with regard to the diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). The platelet aggregation assay is used in 100% of laboratories, aggregation being measured by light transmission in an aggregometer (3/4). Blood is drawn either in emergency (1/4) or after heparin discontinuation (1/4). The nature of the samples for testing is a fresh citrated plasma (100%) although frozen plasma is occasionally employed, while 40% of laboratories use less than 3 control platelet donors. Platelet response is verified in the presence of a non immune agonist (18%) or an immune challenge (known positive plasma or platelet activating monoclonal antibody) (13%). Heparin is of the same type as received by the patient and is tested at two or more concentrations of approximately 0.5 and 1.0 IU/ml, but rarely at high concentration (100 IU/ml). The platelet count is adjusted to 250-350 x 10(9)/l (18%), the ratio of patient plasma to PRP is 1:1 (59%), the time of observation is about 20 min (50%) and control platelets are tested with heparin to rule out any false positive results (9/10). Standardization is nevertheless required if the platelet aggregation assay is to be considered as a reference test.
Effect of berberine bisulfate on platelet hemostasis in thrombocytopenia patients]	The authors recommend berberine bisulfate for use as thrombocytopoiesis stimulator in thrombocytopenias as they have found secondary therapeutic property of this drug--to increase platelet count in patients with primary and secondary thrombocytopenia. The drug was given as monotherapy and in combined treatment 3 times a day for 15 days in a dose 5 mg 20 min before meals.
Effect of pre-incubation at 37 degrees C of platelet concentrates on the post-transfusion platelet adhesion capacity to collagen and fibrinogen.	The effect of warming (37 degrees C) of stored platelet concentrates (PC) on the post-transfusion platelet function as measured by the adhesion capacity in a rectangular perfusion system under flow conditions was analyzed in 22 patients undergoing transfusion for stable thrombocytopenia. Nine patients received a PC stored at 22 degrees C and incubated at 37 degrees C for 1 h before transfusion, 10 patients received a non-warmed PC, 3 patients received both a pre-warmed and a non-warmed PC. In the PC the platelet adhesion capacity to collagen was higher in the pre-warmed PC than in the non-warmed PC (33 +/- 5.9% coverage vs. 22 +/- 4.7% coverage, respectively, in a selected group with the same platelet concentration). The adhesion capacity to collagen of the platelets in the patient's blood, measured 10 min after transfusion, had increased considerably in both patient groups and 4 h later the adhesion capacity in both patient groups was similar to that of the pre-warmed PC before transfusion. We conclude that though pre-warming of stored PC had a beneficial effect on the adhesion capacity to collagen of the platelets in the PC, the clinical significance is questionable because already 10 min after transfusion the adhesion capacity to collagen of stored non-warmed platelets had improved to the level of the pre-warmed platelets and 4 h after transfusion this improvement was still present.
The clinical significance of the antiplatelet antibody test based on results for 265 thrombocytopenic patients.	The usefulness of measuring antiplatelet antibodies by ELISA or cytofluorimetric techniques for the diagnosis of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is still uncertain.
Infection-induced transient increase in the platelet count, and a transient remission of thrombocytopenia with high-dose intravenous gammaglobulin therapy during intercurrent pneumonia in chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura]	A patient with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), who had a transient increase in platelet count during infectious episodes, and had a transient remission of thrombocytopenia with administration of high-dose intravenous gammaglobulin during intercurrent pneumonia was described. A 64-year-old Japanese woman with a 12-year history of chronic ITP was refractory to steroids and azathioprine, and the platelet count was constantly less than 10 x 10(9)/l. During both acute upper respiratory infections and chronic cystitis due to E. coli, the platelet count transiently increased to more than 40 x 10(9)/l. High-dose intravenous gammaglobulin therapy successfully induced a remarkable increase in the platelet count, which persisted for 3 months, when gammaglobulin was administered during the intercurrent pneumonia. The bleeding tendency disappeared and transient remission of ITP was obtained. In contrast, the clinical efficacy of high-dose intravenous gammaglobulin proved to be only transient and slight, when administered before the onset of pneumonia or after recovery from pneumonia. These phenomena may suggest that high-dose gammaglobulin may enhance some positive mechanisms related to platelet increment in infectious diseases accompanied with chronic ITP.
A morphologic variant of May-Hegglin anomaly in a Chinese girl.	An 8 yr old Chinese girl was investigated for easy bruising and mild thrombocytopenia. Platelet aggregation studies and coagulation tests were found to be normal. The giant platelets and Dhle-like cytoplasmic inclusions in granulocytes confirmed the diagnosis of May-Hegglin anomaly. The father's granulocytes also had Dhle-like inclusions and one paternal aunt had a history of bleeding tendency. Review of literature showed that such Dhle-like inclusions had always been described morphologically as crescentic or spindle-shaped. In this case, however, the shape was roundish, oval or poorly defined. Ultrastructurally, the classic description was electron-dense long rods and needles orientating along the long axis of the "spindle". In this case, the only electron-dense particles were dot-like with a haphazard arrangement.
Idiopathic thrombocytopenia and neutropenia in childhood.	Between 1975 and 1990, 13 patients seen at The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, were noted to have concurrent idiopathic thrombocytopenia and neutropenia (ITN; platelet count < 150 x 10(9)/L; absolute neutrophil count < 1.5 x 10(9)/L). These patients all had normal marrow function and no evidence of systemic disease.
Thrombocytopenia. Issues in diagnosis and therapy.	Thrombocytopenia is defined by clinical characteristics and pathophysiologic mechanisms. The patient with thrombocytopenia often presents diagnostic and management challenges simultaneously. The differential diagnosis is broad because the disorders leading to thrombocytopenia are diverse, with failed production at one extreme and accelerated destruction at the other. Reviewed in terms of diagnosis and therapy are pseudothrombocytopenia, dilutional thrombocytopenia, and the three major mechanisms: decreased production, altered distribution, and increased destruction.
Detection of antiplatelet antibody with a platelet immunofluorescence assay.	An indirect platelet immunofluorescence assay (PIFA) was developed for detection of circulating antiplatelet antibody in dogs with suspected immune-mediated thrombocytopenia (ITP). The PIFA was performed on 10 healthy dogs with normal platelet counts; 76 thrombocytopenic dogs, 20 of which were suspected of having ITP; and 18 dogs with other diseases and normal platelet counts. All normal dogs and negative test results. Fourteen (70%) of 20 dogs suspected of having ITP had positive test results. Fifteen of the remaining 56 thrombocytopenic dogs had positive test results, 9 had cancer and 6 had other immune-mediated diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In this study, the PIFA assay seemed to be more sensitive (70%) than the megakaryocyte immunofluorescence assay (41%) in the diagnosis of ITP. Of the 9 PIFA-positive dogs with neoplasia, 6 had lymphoproliferative disorders. The PIFA was positive in 5 of 18 diseased dogs with normal platelet counts. There was an inverse relationship between the platelet count and the intensity of fluorescence in the PIFA-positive dogs. We conclude that the PIFA is a sensitive screening method for detecting circulating antiplatelet antibody.
Thrombocytopenia in pregnancy--a case report]	A report is given on a rare case of a 25 years old pregnant women with hepatosplenomegaly, thrombocytopenia and elevated liver enzymes. Because of an abnormality of the Truncus coeliacus and A. mesenterica superior and portal hypertension there has been performed the end-to-side portocaval anastomosis.
Fechtner syndrome: report of a third family and literature review.	We observed macrothrombocytopenia with leucocyte inclusions in 10 out of 14 members of a four-generation family. Morphological features of leucocyte inclusions and the presence of Alport-related symptoms supported the diagnosis of Fechtner syndrome. Compared to the two previously reported Fechtner families, our kindred showed reduced expression of Alport manifestations. These, in members aged less than 50, were represented by clinically silent ocular abnormalities. Due to the frequent non-recognition of macrothrombocytopenia. Fechtner variants with low penetrance might be difficult to diagnose. In addition, Sebastian syndrome, recently distinguished from Fechtner disease in lacking Alport manifestations, might be one of these variants.
The use of fraxiparin for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolism in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia]	Seventeen patients aged 26-52 with recurrent thromboembolism of the veins and disturbances of cerebral and coronary circulation (3 and 2 cases, respectively) treated by unfractionated heparin developed thrombocytopenia in the presence of enhanced platelet aggregation. Despite heparin therapy, fresh thrombi of different sites appeared in 5 patients. A cross to fraxiparin (France) resulted in correction of thrombocytopenia, normalization of spontaneous platelet aggregation in two thirds of the patients. In 5 patients thrombocytopenia persisted. It is stated that in most cases low-molecular heparin allows continuation of antithrombotic therapy in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Neither transplacental passage nor hemostatic abnormalities in the newborns were recorded after administration of fraxiparin to 6 pregnant women.
X linked recessive thrombocytopenia.	A Saudi Arab boy presented in early childhood with thrombocytopenia, morphologically large and normal sized platelets, increased mean platelet volume, and a hypermegakaryocytic bone marrow. There was no clinical and laboratory evidence of any significant immunological abnormalities. Similar findings in two other brothers suggested strongly that they were all suffering from an X linked recessive thrombocytopenic disorder. Results of DNA analysis with the probe M27 beta are consistent with X linkage and indicate also that the locus of the relevant gene lies close to or is identical to the locus of the gene for the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS). Because of various features which include the presence of large and normal sized platelets (rather than small platelets) and freedom from significant immune deficiencies, it is likely that the X linked recessive thrombocytopenia in this family is an isolated entity quite distinct from the classical WAS phenotype. However, a modified expression of the WAS gene producing a mild phenotypic variant cannot be excluded entirely.
Neurological state, infarct size and clinical outcome are related to early platelet count decrease in stroke.	We performed this study in order to verify the existence of a correlation between early platelet count reduction and initial neurological impairment, infarct extension and mortality or clinical outcome in an established ischemic cerebral infarction. The results demonstrate that the platelet consumption and/or accumulation in the infarct area, expressed by circulating platelet decrease, is related to the severity of neurological involvement, infarct size and poor clinical outcome.
Enumeration of platelets by multiparameter flow cytometry using platelet-specific antibodies and fluorescent reference particles.	The correct enumeration of platelets is still an elusive matter. This is mainly due to the fact that commercial instruments which are used for platelet counting cannot discriminate platelets from other cellular particles and precipitates that cause similar signals. Visual (chamber counting) methods are still frequently used in routine laboratories to verify low automated platelet counts (< 50 x 10/l) despite obvious technical and statistical drawbacks. The following report shows how platelet counts can be measured by multiparameter flow cytometry with the help of reference particles (fluorescent latex beads) and platelet-specific antibodies i.e. anti-GPIIb/IIIa(CD41a), anti-GP Ib-alpha (CD42b) and anti-GP IIIa (CD61). The linearity of this method was highly satisfactory and the observed imprecision was within acceptable limits. At a platelet concentration of 10 x 10(9)/l the coefficient of variation (CV, n = 10) ranged from 5.3% (PCV = 0.456) to 5.6% (PCV = 0.148). Accuracy was evaluated by comparing results to the ICSH-selected method for platelet counting. The correlation of both methods was significant (P < 0.005) and Passing-Bablok's linear regression analysis showed no systematic differences between the two methods. Comparisons of this new platelet counting technique were also performed with routine visual methods, automated blood analysers (Technicon H-1, Sysmex E-5000) and a different flow cytometric method using only forward and side light scatter properties of platelets for their discrimination. The linear correlation of all methods was significant (P < 0.01) at platelet concentrations above 50 x 10(9)/l. At lower platelet concentrations, our new platelet counting technique correlated significantly only with the visual and the forward/side scatter methods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Heparin-associated type II thrombocytopenia as a cause of multiple thromboembolism complications]	13 days after hysterectomy and subcutaneous treatment with unfractionated heparin (10000 IU daily) a 68 year old women developed a pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis of the right leg. She thereupon received intravenous heparin (1000 IU/h). Eight days later she developed acute ischaemia of both legs, and Doppler examination revealed acute Leriche's Syndrome with thrombosis of both iliac arteries. Platelet count fell from, initially 152 x 10(9)/I, to 44 x 10(9)/I. Although heparin-associated thrombocytopenia type II was suspected a confirmation by demonstrating a heparin dependent antibody with the heparin-induced platelet activation (HIPA)-test failed and therefore crossreactivity of low molecular heparins or heparinoids could not be assessed. After discontinuation of heparin and iliacal artery thrombectomy a combination therapy with aspirin plus ticlopidine (500 mg/d respectively) was started and continued until phenprocoumon could exert its full effect. No recurrent thromboembolic events occurred, the platelet counts normalized and the patient fully recovered.
Relevance of heparin-induced type II thrombocytopenia in surgery: report of 3 cases]	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a frequent type of drug induced thrombocytopenia. The clinically benign type I has to be distinguished from the life threatening type II due to the risk of thromboembolic complications. Three cases of type II HIT with acute thrombosis of the pelvic and lower extremity arteries and successful surgical treatment are reported. The majority of cases of an imminent type II HIT can be recognized in time by monitoring platelet count. The laboratory tests relevant to diagnosis are discussed. An immediate stop of the heparin therapy represents the causal treatment of type II HIT. As an alternative, anticoagulants may be used.
The lupus anticoagulant/antiphospholipid syndrome.	Lupus anticoagulants and anticardiolipin antibodies have been strongly associated with the risk of thrombosis, recurrent fetal loss, thrombocytopenia, and a number of other clinical manifestations that together have been referred to as the antiphospholipid syndrome. Despite growing evidence of the significance of this relationship, the pathogenetic mechanisms involved are largely unknown. Recent data suggest strongly that lupus anticoagulants (LACs) and anticardiolipin antibodies (ACAs) are antibodies to protein-phospholipid complexes rather than to phospholipids, as had originally been thought, and that other protein-phospholipid complexes, not recognized by standard assays for LACs or ACAs, may also exist in patients with the antiphospholipid syndrome. Although very recent experimental data may lead to new therapeutic approaches in this syndrome, at present we can only deal with the thrombotic risk by the use of long-term anticoagulation. This chapter reviews current methods of diagnosis, concepts of pathogenesis, and the basis for an approach to anticoagulation in patients at risk for thrombosis or other manifestations of the antiphospholipid syndrome.
Thrombocytopenia corrected by warfarin in antiphospholipid syndrome.	We describe a case of antiphospholipid associated thrombocytopenia in which warfarin, but not heparin, normalized the platelet count. Systemic lupus erythematosus was present in association with chorea, mitral valve stenosis, and renal thrombotic microangiopathy. No evidence of platelet consumption was detected. Low dose aspirin, pulse methylprednisolone, intravenous gammaglobulin, and cyclophosphamide also partially elevated the platelet count. Platelet activation, measured by P selectin assay, was not present during warfarin or aspirin therapy, suggesting that platelet activation may have been decreased by these treatments. We discuss possible mechanisms for correction of thrombocytopenia in antiphospholipid syndrome by warfarin.
Thrombocytopenia in patients with rheumatoid arthritis on long-term treatment with low dose methotrexate.	We reviewed the records of 315 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated with low-dose methotrexate (MTX) and evaluated the conditions contributing to thrombocytopenia. Thirteen out of 315 patients with RA presented with low platelet counts (< or = 100.000/mm3). The age of these patients (51 +/- 12.6 years) did not correlate with thrombocytopenia (r = 0.211, p > 0.05). Thrombocytopenia resulted from coadministration of MTX and NSAID or multiple drug interactions. We observed a significant (r = 0.48, p < 0.05) increase of discontinuation of NSAID's but not of MTX therapy (r = 0.42, p > 0.05) with a mounting weekly dosage of MTX (12.5 +/- 5 mg orally). There was a significant correlation between this weekly dosage of MTX coadministered on the same day with NSAID and thrombocytopenia (r = 0.6, p < 0.05). In most cases (9/13) MTX was not or just temporarily withdrawn. Three of the remaining patients had multiple drug interactions. Reintroduction of low dose MTX treatment in patients having had thrombocytopenia could be performed safely, if thrombocytopenia occurred as a result of concomitant application of MTX and NSAID and no other multiple drug interactions. Preferably, MTX and NSAID should be given to these risk patients on separate days or intervals considering half time clearance of NSAIDs. This procedure has avoided the reoccurrence of thrombocytopenia and controlled further drug interactions of NSAIDs and MTX in our patients.
Genetic polymorphism H131R of Fcgamma receptor type IIA (FcgammaRIIA) in a healthy Finnish population and in patients with or without platelet-associated IgG.	Patients (n=113) with histories of thrombocytopenia and with different profiles for platelet-associated IgG (PA-IgG) were subdivided according to the genetic polymorphism H131R in the Fcgamma receptor type IIA (FcgammaRIIA). PA-IgG was measured by the direct platelet immunofluorescence test (PIFT), and GP IIbIIIa and/or GP Ib-specific PA-IgG was investigated by a modified version of the direct monoclonal antibody-specific immobilization of platelet antigens (MAIPA) assay. As a control, the distribution of FcgammaRIIA polymorphism H131R was determined among 93 healthy Finnish blood donors. The frequencies for H131 and R131 were 0.56 and 0.44 (CI: 0.37-0.51), respectively, which did not differ significantly from those in other Caucasian populations. The distribution of the genotypes HH131, HR131 and RR131 in the patients and controls did not differ significantly. In the HH131 group, the PA-IgG was higher than in the RR131 group (p=0.082). Female patients with the genotype RR131 seemed to be younger than those with HH131 (p=0.065). Among the female patients, a significantly greater number were under 40 yr old in the RR131 group than in the HH131 group (p=0.0060). Within the RR131 group, the female patients were far younger than the male patients (median 29 vs. 61 yr; p=0.0021). The results point to the heterogeneity of immune thrombocytopenia, which may partly explain the poor predictive value of PA-IgG studies.
Hemostasis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection]	Various coagulation abnormalities were reported in HIV-infected patients. Cases of severe thrombocytopenia were first observed in contaminated homosexual males, as well as prolonged APTT due to the presence of lupus-like anticoagulant with a frequency in the range 8 to 70% of the studied patients. Even if lupus anticoagulant could be evidenced in asymptomatic patients, it frequently occurred during acute opportunistic infections such as Pneumocystis carinii. More recently, increased prevalence of protein S and heparin cofactor II deficiency, two physiological coagulation inhibitors were demonstrated in HIV-infected patients. The same applied for hypoalbuminemia-related fibrin polymerization defects which induced prolonged thrombin and reptilase clotting times. Abnormalities of the fibrinolytic system were also reported, such as increased levels of both tissue-type plasminogen activator and type 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor or decreased levels of histidine-rich glycoprotein. Even if the acute phase response could play a key-role, the pathogenesis of these abnormalities is not fully understood, so far. In addition, their clinical consequences have not been extensively investigated, but hemorrhage appeared to be uncommon. Moreover, D-dimer levels were found increased in HIV-infected patients, suggesting that HIV-infection might be associated with a so-called prethrombotic state, which could lead to clinical thrombosis in some HIV-infected patients (2%).
Heparin-induced thrombopenia. Clinical manifestations and physiopathology]	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a clinically interesting model of immunological thrombocytopenia because thrombus formation occurs much more frequently than hemorrhage, in some patients, major thrombocytopenia is observed with signs of consumption coagulopathy. HIGH INCIDENCE OF THROMBUS FORMATION: Venous thrombi predominate with severe consequences such as pulmonary emboli or more rarely distal gangrene. Artenal thrombi are less frequent but are highly suggestive and often lead to acute ischemia in the lower limbs. IMMUNOLOGICAL MECHANISM: Severe forms of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia result from an immunological mechanism and are associated with IgG antibody production. The Fc fragment of these antibodies activate platelets. Heparin-dependent antibodies preferentially recognize antigenic complexes formed by the heparin-platelet facto 4 association although certain other antigens (IL-8 or NAP-2 are also recognized. Thrombus formation results from platelet activation and enhanced coagulability which can be favored by antibody binding to endothelial cells and synthesis of tissue factor. PRACTICAL ASPECTS: Severe heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is particularly frequent in medical and surgical situations involving platelet activation and treatments by infractionated heparins. No particular phenotype of the IgG Fc receptor has been identified. Likewise no specific risk factors have been found. As effective antithrombin therapy is required in most cases, Xa inhibitors or thrombin inhibitors are useful.
Biological diagnosis and surveillance of heparin-induced thrombopenia]	THE CHALLENGE: Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a diagnostic challenge for the clinician. Currently, it is recommended to monitor platelet counts for the first 3 weeks of heparin therapy. Laboratory counts often may drop off before any evidence of a clinical manifestation.
Thrombopoietin levels in HIV-associated thrombocytopenia in children.	To determine the mechanism of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated thrombocytopenia by using thrombopoietin (TPO) levels.
Effect of the evaluation parameter on sensitivity of resonance thrombography of thrombocytopenia in dogs]	Based on 109 blood samples taken from 36 dogs suffering from thrombocytopenia resonance thrombography with the resonance thrombograph RTG 801 (von Hoerner und Sulger Electronic GmbH, Schwetzingen; manufacturer: Fresenius AG, Bad Homburg) was distinctly more sensitive and more closely correlated to the platelet count using an optimized parameter of the resonance thrombogramm (RTG) in comparison to usual parameters. Nevertheless, clinical requirements regarding samples with platelet counts > 25,000/microliter were not fulfilled. Out of 13 samples with reduced platelet count and simultanous extended capillary bleeding time, depending on the used parameter a maximum of 9 samples could be detected as pathological by the RTG. The normal RTG in part of the cases with clearly altered primary haemostasis contrasts to the exclusive use of RTG in the screening of thrombocytopenia in dogs.
Changes in serum thrombopoietin levels after splenectomy.	To clarify the role of thrombopoietin (c-Mpl ligand, TPO) in 'hypersplenic' thrombocytopenia, we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to examine changes in serum TPO levels accompanied with splenectomy in 6 patients with liver cirrhosis, 4 patients with gastric cancer, and 2 patients with lymphoid malignancies. We also measured serum levels of other thrombopoietic cytokines such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and erythropoietin. Platelet counts reached a maximum at day 14 after splenectomy in all subjects. In patients with liver cirrhosis, a lower elevation of platelet counts was observed compared with that in patients with gastric cancer. Serum TPO levels gradually elevated after splenectomy and reached a maximum 3.5 days after splenectomy in noncirrhotic patients, whereas peak serum TPO levels were delayed until day 7 in the cirrhosis group. IL-6 and erythropoietin showed similar kinetics between cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. These findings suggest that transient thrombocytosis after splenectomy may be associated with an alteration in the site of TPO catabolism by platelets from spleen to the blood and that deterioration of TPO production may play a role in thrombocytopenia in liver cirrhosis.
