Urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) and coagulation activation markers measured within 24 h of human acute ischemic stroke.	The aim of this study was to determine the extent of change in platelet and coagulation markers in the acute phase of ischemic stroke and to assess the utility of marker measurement in stroke subtype classification. Urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) (11-dTXB2), a marker of in vivo platelet activation, and markers of coagulation activation, including prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), and fibrinogen, were measured in 25 patients with ischemic stroke within 24 h of onset of symptoms. Marker levels in patients with ischemic stroke were compared with those in 19 age-matched controls who had not taken aspirin for at least 2 weeks before sampling and 25 healthy controls. Median marker levels were significantly increased in stroke over those in age-matched controls for fibrinogen (344 vs. 289 mg/dl; P=0.030), F1+2 (1.40 vs. 0.80 nmol/l; P=0.003), and TAT (6.65 vs. 2.20 microg/l; P<0.0001). Median marker levels for seven patients with cardioembolic stroke and 18 with non-cardioembolic stroke were not significantly different for any marker test. Eight patients taking aspirin at the time of the stroke had significantly lower 11-dTXB2 values than patients not taking aspirin (964 vs. 4,314 pg/mg of creatinine; P=0.007). Stroke patients not taking aspirin had significantly higher 11-dTXB2 concentration than age-matched controls (4,314 vs. 1,788 pg/mg of creatinine; P=0.006). Coagulation and platelet activation markers are increased in the acute phase of stroke regardless of the clinical mechanism. This finding suggests that the markers may not be useful for predicting clinical subtype of ischemic stroke in the acute phase.
Comparative study of platelet activation markers in diabetes mellitus patients complicated by cerebrovascular disease.	Cerebrovascular disease and other vascular diseases are common complications of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and are associated with its increased morbidity and mortality. Platelet activation plays an important role in the pathomechanisms of these vascular diseases. Although several indices have been used to assess platelet activation, few data are available indicating which are more sensitive or more valuable in this situation. We have measured platelet arachidonic acid metabolites [thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 (TXB2)] and plasma P-selectin, platelet fibrinogen binding and membrane glycoproteins in 47 well-characterized NIDDM patients with cerebrovascular disease, 38 NIDDM patients without vascular diseases, and 36 age-matched healthy individuals. Our study shows that platelets were remarkably activated in NIDDM patients with cerebrovascular diseases. The measurement of plasma 11-dehydro-TXB2 and the determination of fibrinogen binding to, and P-selectin expression on platelets would reveal a higher diagnostic sensitivity for detecting in vivo platelet activation than other markers.
Possible involvement of mast-cell activation in aspirin provocation of aspirin-induced asthma.	Although there is increasing evidence of the importance of cysteinyl leukotrienes (LT) as mediators of aspirin-induced bronchoconstriction in aspirin-sensitive asthma, the cellular origin of the LT is not yet clear.
Enhanced lipid peroxidation and platelet activation in the early phase of type 1 diabetes mellitus: role of interleukin-6 and disease duration.	To investigate early events possibly related to the development of diabetic angiopathy, we examined whether 8-iso-prostaglandin F2alpha (8-iso-PGF2alpha) formation, a marker of in vivo oxidant stress, is altered in different stages of type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and whether it correlates with the rate of thromboxane (TX) A2 biosynthesis, a marker of in vivo platelet activation. We also investigated the relationship between inflammatory markers and F2-isoprostane formation in this setting.
Clinical pharmacology of platelet, monocyte, and vascular cyclooxygenase inhibition by naproxen and low-dose aspirin in healthy subjects.	The current controversy on the potential cardioprotective effect of naproxen prompted us to evaluate the extent and duration of platelet, monocyte, and vascular cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition by naproxen compared with low-dose aspirin.
Helicobacter pylori infection causes persistent platelet activation in vivo through enhanced lipid peroxidation.	We aimed at investigating the relationship between Helicobacter pylori infection and in vivo lipid peroxidation and platelet activation, as reflected by urinary 8-iso-prostaglandin (PG)F(2alpha) and 11-dehydro-thromboxane (TX)B2, respectively, in otherwise healthy dyspeptic subjects.
Biological assessment of aspirin efficacy on healthy individuals: heterogeneous response or aspirin failure?	The widespread use of aspirin requires clarification of the aspirin resistance phenomenon. Most studies on this field are focused on patients which may affect the action of aspirin.
Platelet activation in patients with colorectal cancer.	Aspirin may reduce the risk of colorectal neoplasia at doses similar to those recommended for the prevention of cardiovascular disease. Thus, we aimed to address whether enhanced platelet activation, as assessed by the measurement of the urinary excretion of 11-dehydro-TXB(2) (a major enzymatic metabolite of TXB(2)), occurs in patients with colorectal cancer. In 10 patients with colorectal cancer, the urinary excretion of 11-dehydro-TXB(2) was significantly higher than in 10 controls, matched for sex, age and cardiovascular risk factors [1001(205-5571) versus 409(113-984) pg/mg creatinine, respectively, median (range), P<0.05]. The administration of aspirin 50 mg daily for 5 consecutive days to colorectal cancer patients caused a cumulative inhibition of platelet cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 activity either ex vivo, as assessed by the measurement of serum TXB(2) levels, or in vivo, as assessed by urinary 11-dehydro-TXB(2) excretion. In conclusion, enhanced platelet activation occurs in colorectal cancer patients. Permanent inactivation of platelet COX-1 by low-dose aspirin might restore anti-tumor reactivity.
Sexual dimorphism in renal production of prostanoids in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have higher blood pressure, blunted pressure-natriuresis relationship, and accelerated progression of renal injury compared with female SHR. Renal medullary prostanoids mediate vascular tone, salt and water balance, and renin release and, as a result, are involved in the maintenance of renal blood flow and the pathogenesis of hypertension. The aim of this study was to determine whether a gender difference exists in prostanoid production in SHR and whether sex steroids influence prostaglandin (PG) production. Thirteen-week-old intact and gonadectomized male and female SHR rats were placed in metabolic cages for 24-hour urine collection. Prostanoid excretion was determined using enzyme immunoassay. Kidneys were isolated and separated into outer and inner medulla for Western blot analysis. Female SHR had enhanced urinary excretion of PG E2 (PGE2) metabolites and thromboxane B2, an indicator of renal thromboxane production, compared with male SHR. There were no gender differences in excretion of systemic thromboxane or prostacyclin. Correspondingly, female SHR had enhanced microsomal PGE2 synthase protein expression in the renal inner medulla and greater cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in the outer medulla. Orchidectomy was associated with increased PGE2 metabolite excretion and microsomal PGE synthase protein expression. Thromboxane B2 excretion was not affected by gonadectomy in either male or female SHR. Protein expressions of COX and cytoplasmic PGE2 synthase in the renal medulla were unchanged by gonadectomy in both sexes. These results demonstrate a sexual dimorphism in renal production of prostanoids in SHR and that PGE production is testosterone sensitive and estrogen insensitive.
Thromboxane and prostacyclin biosynthesis in patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.	Elevated levels of 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-dehydro-TXB2) excreted in urine have been observed in acute ischemic stroke. This marker of platelet activation has not been investigated in patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
Monitoring thromboxane in body fluids: a specific ELISA for 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 using a monoclonal antibody.	11-Dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-DHTxB2) concentrations are believed to reflect levels of the in vivo synthesis and release of thromboxane A2. In a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) a monoclonal antibody (MAB) against 11-DHTxB2 (MAB-1E-DHTBR1) recognizes the acyclic form of 11-DHTxB2, as found in the basic range of pH, with a detection limit of 4.6 pg/sample and a binding affinity of 6.1 x 10(9) l/mol. Negligible cross-reactivity was found for thromboxane B2 (0.05%), 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 (0.06%), and prostaglandin D2 (0.08%). Validity of the assay was confirmed by a good correlation between radioimmunoassay and ELISA (r = 0.972). Recovery experiments showed an accuracy of r = 0.982. Measurements of 11-DHTxB2 in human serum and urine samples demonstrated the practical applicability of the MAB in ELISA. With the use of different clotting times, the serum level of 11-DHTxB2 ranged from 0.8-1.3 ng/ml (30 min) to 24.1-47.9 ng/ml (4 h). After administration of aspirin the 11-DHTxB2 level of human urine declined from 3.9-5.4 ng/ml to 0.4-1.6 ng/ml after 6 h.
An imbalance between the excretion of thromboxane and prostacyclin metabolites in pulmonary hypertension.	Constriction of small pulmonary arteries and arterioles and focal vascular injury are features of pulmonary hypertension. Because thromboxane A2 is both a vasoconstrictor and a potent stimulus for platelet aggregation, it may be an important mediator of pulmonary hypertension. Its effects are antagonized by prostacyclin, which is released by vascular endothelial cells. We tested the hypothesis that there may be an imbalance between the release of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in pulmonary hypertension, reflecting platelet activation and an abnormal response of the pulmonary vascular endothelium.
Enzyme immunoassay of human plasma 11-dehydrothromboxane B2.	11-Dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-dhTXB2) is a proposed marker compound for thromboxane A2 formed in vivo. An enzyme immunoassay was established for determination of the plasma concentration of this compound. The assay was based on a horseradish peroxidase-linked immunoassay utilizing polyclonal anti-11-dhTXB2 antibody obtained from a rabbit, and enabled determination of 11-dhTXB2 in the range of 2 to 500 pg/tube with an IC50 of 36 pg. The cross-reactivities with TXB2, 2,3-dinor-TXB2 and other prostanoids were less than 0.05%. Validity of the enzyme immunoassay was confirmed by a radioimmunoassay utilizing a monoclonal antibody. The plasma 11-dhTXB2 was immunoaffinity-purified by one step using an immobilized monoclonal antibody. The mean plasma level of 11-dhTXB2 in six male volunteers was 4.0 +/- 0.3 pg/ml by this enzyme immunoassay.
Prostacyclin production in myocardial infarction in the acute phase and during follow-up.	Twenty-five patients with myocardial infarction were monitored in the acute phase and during follow-up with regard to the in vivo production of prostacyclin (PGI2) and thromboxane (TxA2), by measurement of their major urinary metabolites, 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-TxB2, respectively. In 22 of these patients PGI2 and TxA2 production were also assessed before, during and after an exercise test performed 6 weeks after discharge. In approximately 24% of patients the in vivo production of prostacyclin did not increase during the acute phase of the infarction process. This inability was usually associated with a decrease in the release of heart muscle enzymes, and was mostly frequently observed in women. During the exercise tolerance test, none of the patients showed any increase in prostacyclin production, in contrast to healthy volunteers, in whom a significant increase was seen. There were no differences between patients with and without an increase in prostacyclin production during the acute phase. At the follow-up 2 years after the myocardial infarction, eight cardiac events had occurred, all of which were noted among patients who exhibited an expected increase in prostacyclin production in association with the infarction. This would seem reasonable, since most of the patients in this group had larger primary infarctions.
Elevated ratio of urinary metabolites of thromboxane and prostacyclin is associated with adverse cardiovascular events in ADAPT.	Results from prevention trials, including the Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT), have fueled discussion about the cardiovascular (CV) risks associated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We tested the hypotheses that (i) adverse CV events reported among ADAPT participants (aged 70 years and older) are associated with increased ratio of urine 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2) (Tx-M) to 2'3-donor-6-keto-PGF1 (PGI-M) attributable to NSAID treatments; (ii) coincident use of aspirin (ASA) would attenuate NSAID-induced changes in Tx-M/PGI-M ratio; and (iii) use of NSAIDs and/or ASA would not alter urine or plasma concentrations of F(2)-isoprostanes (IsoPs), in vivo biomarkers of free radical damage. We quantified urine Tx-M and PGI-M, and urine and plasma F(2)-IsoPs from 315 ADAPT participants using stable isotope dilution assays with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, and analyzed these data by randomized drug assignment and self-report compliance as well as ASA use. Adverse CV events were significantly associated with higher urine Tx-M/PGI-M ratio, which seemed to derive mainly from lowered PGI-M. Participants taking ASA alone had reduced urine Tx-M/PGI-M compared to no ASA or NSAID; however, participants taking NSAIDs plus ASA did not have reduced urine Tx-M/PGI-M ratio compared to NSAIDs alone. Neither NSAID nor ASA use altered plasma or urine F(2)-IsoPs. These data suggest a possible mechanism for the increased risk of CV events reported in ADAPT participants assigned to NSAIDs, and suggest that the changes in the Tx-M/PGI-M ratio was not substantively mitigated by coincident use of ASA in individuals 70 years or older.
Inflammation, oxidative stress and platelet activation in aspirin-treated critical limb ischaemia: beneficial effects of iloprost.	Platelets critically contribute to atherothrombosis and worsening ischaemia in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), eventually leading to critical limb ischaemia (CLI). Furthermore, persistent platelet activation despite antiplatelet therapy has been reported in this setting. The prostacyclin analogue iloprost is currently recommended in CLI patients for its effects in relieving symptoms by promoting local perfusion. In this study, we investigated the effects of iloprost infusion on urinary 11-dehydro-TXB₂ and 8-iso-PGF(₂α) excretion rate, as in vivo indexes of thromboxane-dependent platelet activation and lipid peroxidation, respectively, and on platelet-derived proinflammatory sCD40L and nitric oxide bioavailability in 44 patients with CLI while on chronic treatment with low-dose aspirin. Daily iloprost infusion for one-week significantly decreased urinary 11-dehydro-TXB₂ [499 (277-807) vs. 380 (189-560) pg/mg creatinine, p < 0.0001] and 8-iso-PGF(₂α) [533 (316-842) vs. 334 (196-540) pg/mg creatinine, p < 0.0001] as well as plasma sCD40L [1540 (1005-3015) vs. 948 (845-2030) pg/ml, p < 0.0001]. Furthermore, a significant increase in plasma nitrate plus nitrite levels has been observed [26.8 (18.8-35.9) vs. 43.7 (33.0-75.5) μM, p < 0.0001]. A significant direct correlation was also found between urinary 8-iso-PGF(₂α) and 11-dehydro-TXB2 before and after iloprost treatment (Rho = 0.695, p < 0.0001). In conclusion, we report that a short-term course of iloprost is able to significantly reduce residual thromboxane biosynthesis, oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction and platelet-derived inflammation in low-dose aspirin treated patients with CLI.
Comparison of UHPLC and HPLC methods for the assay of prostanoids: "are the methods equivalent in terms of accuracy and precision?".	As new methods are developed to increase efficiency and higher analytical performance, it is necessary to evaluate their quality in comparison to standard methods. To understand how the analytical performance changes between methods, it is common to compare the validation parameters; sensitivity, linearity, accuracy and precision. Here, we compare an UHPLC-UV method to the HPLC-UV method (reference method) for the simultaneous determination of seven prostanoids. Though the basic chromatography theory is the same for HPLC and UHPLC, the instrumentation has been modified to accommodate higher pressures, lower flow rates and smaller sample size. The differences in analytical instrumentation and procedures can give rise to method inequivalencies. Our approach evaluates the UHPLC and HPLC methods and poses the question: are the methods equivalent? To answer this question a statistical comparison of the analytical performance and method parameters is necessary.
The role of thromboxane A(2) in the pathogenesis of intrauterine growth restriction associated with maternal smoking in pregnancy.	To examine the effect of maternal smoking in pregnancy on the production of two eicosanoids, thromboxane A(2) and prostacyclin I2, and their role in the pathogenesis of intrauterine growth restriction.
Evaluation of effects of low-dose aspirin administration on urinary thromboxane metabolites in healthy dogs.	To evaluate markers of in vivo platelet function (urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) [11-dehydroTXB(2)] and 2,3-dinorTXB(2)) and assess their response to administration of 2 commonly used dosages of aspirin in healthy dogs.
Urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B₂ and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin-F₁α in healthy post-menopausal and pre-menopausal women receiving aspirin 100 mg.	The prevalence of cardiovascular diseases in women increases sharply after menopause. In postmenopausal women, thromboxane production increases while prostacyclin decreases. Low dose aspirin reduces the production of both thromboxane and prostacyclin. The present study was an open-label clinical trial with two parallel groups of 15 premenopausal women and 15 postmenopausal women. Twenty-four hours urine was collected from each subject before and after aspirin 100 mg daily for 7 days. The concentration of thromboxane and prostacyclin was measured as their metabolites (11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin-F(1α)) in urine using enzyme immunoassay methods. This study showed that aspirin significantly reduced thromboxane in both groups with significantly larger percentage reduction in postmenopausal women compared to premenopausal women (73.32 vs. 61.13%, p = 0.021). This study also showed that aspirin reduced prostacyclin significantly in both groups, but the percentage reduction between the groups was not significantly different. The decrease in the ratio of 11-dTXB(2)/2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1α) should be compared to assess aspirin efficacy as an antithrombotic. Calculation of the ratio of 11-dTXB(2)/2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1α) before aspirin consumption was higher in postmenopausal women than in premenopausal women. The decrease in 11-dTXB(2)/2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1α) ratio by aspirin was greater in postmenopausal women than in premenopausal women (1.91 vs. 0.17; p = 0.022). It was concluded that aspirin reduced thromboxane and prostacyclin significantly in each group with significant 11-dTXB(2) percentage reduction between groups and non-significant 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1α) percentage reduction between groups, but reduced the 11-dTXB(2)/2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1α) ratio much larger in postmenopausal women compared to that in premenopausal women.
Intermittent hypoxia-activated cyclooxygenase pathway: role in atherosclerosis.	Intermittent hypoxia, the main stimulus of obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), induces inflammation, leading to early atherosclerosis. Whether the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway contributes to intermittent hypoxia-induced atherosclerosis remains to be determined. We studied the effects of 8-weeks of intermittent hypoxia exposure on COX-pathway gene expression and atherosclerosis, and the influence of COX-1 inhibition by SC-560 on atherosclerosis progression in aortas of apolipoprotein E(-/-) mice. Urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-dTXB2) was assessed in 50 OSA subjects free of cardiovascular risk factor matched for age and body mass index with 25 controls, and 56 OSA with cardiovascular risk factor. Intermittent hypoxia significantly increased atherosclerotic lesion sizes, mRNA levels of COX-1 and thromboxane synthase (TXBS). Lesion sizes correlated to COX-1 (r = 0.654, p = 0.0003) and TXBS (r = 0.693, p<0.0001) mRNA levels. COX-1 inhibition reduced lesion progression in intermittent hypoxia mice only (p = 0.04). Urinary 11-dTXB2 was similar in OSA subjects free of cardiovascular risk factor and controls, but was increased by 13% (p = 0.007) in OSA subjects with cardiovascular risk factor compared with those without. Although OSA itself was not associated with increased urinary 11-dTXB2 concentration, the COX-1 pathway was activated in intermittent hypoxia-exposed mice and in OSA subjects presenting with cardiovascular risk factor, and may contribute to intermittent hypoxia-induced atherogenesis. COX-1 inhibition could be of clinical interest in the prevention of cardiovascular morbidity in OSA. 
Differential impact of inflammation on six laboratory assays measuring residual arachidonic acid-inducible platelet reactivity during dual antiplatelet therapy.	Inflammation has been postulated to modify the platelet response to aspirin treatment, thereby causing high on-treatment residual platelet reactivity (HRPR). Both high levels of inflammatory markers and HRPR have been linked to adverse cardiovascular events. We aimed to study the impact of inflammation on residual arachidonic acid (AA)-inducible platelet reactivity.
Thromboxane A(2) generation, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, in patients with and without atherothrombotic myocardial infarction.	Aspirin's therapeutic action is via inhibition of platelet cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1) thromboxane A2 (TxA2) production. The aim of this study was to evaluate TxA2 production, in the absence of platelet COX-1 activity, in coronary atherosclerotic heart disease patients with and without atherothrombotic myocardial infarction (MI).
Endogenous formation of prostanoids in neonates with persistent pulmonary hypertension.	Endogenous formation of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin were evaluated in seven neonatates with persistent pulmonary hypertension by serial gas chromatographic mass spectrometric determination of their urinary metabolites dinor-thromboxane B2 and dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha, respectively. The patients were studied until their hypertension had resolved on clinical criteria. Urinary excretion of dinor-thromboxane B2 and dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha was increased when the persistent pulmonary hypertension was associated with group B streptococcal (n = 2) and pneumococcal (n = 1) sepsis. Based on urinary metabolite excretion, endogenous formation of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin did not consistently differ from normal neonates in four patients with non-septic persistent pulmonary hypertension (hyaline membrane disease (n = 2), asphyxia, and meconium aspiration). These data suggest that thromboxane A2 is not a universal mediator of persistent pulmonary hypertension. It may, however, have a role in the pathophysiology of early onset group B streptococcal disease, and persistent pulmonary hypertension of other infectious aetiology. If these findings are confirmed by further studies, thromboxane synthetase inhibition or receptor antagonism may offer a potential therapeutic approach in neonates with persistent pulmonary hypertension associated with sepsis.
A new method using simple solid phase extraction for the rapid gas-chromatographic mass-spectrometric determination of 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 in urine.	A new gas-chromatographic mass-spectrometric method for the rapid determination of 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 in urine, the major metabolite of systemic thromboxane formation, has been developed. Excellent sample clean-up was obtained in a single step by adsorption of 11-dehydro-TXB2 on phenylboronate cartridges, vigorous polar and organic washing and elution with an acidic methanol mixture. Then the pentafluorobenzylester trimethylsilylether derivative of 11-dehydro-TXB2 was formed and quantified in isotope dilution technique by negative chemical ionisation gas-chromatography tandem mass-spectrometry. The daughter fragments m/z 243/247 of the parent ion m/z 511/515 were monitored. Recovery was linear and quantitative over a wide range, accuracy was 95 + 7% and precision was 11% down to the very low pg range in biologic samples. Independent validation of this very fast extraction method with a reference method applying extensive sample purification with consecutive reversed and straight phase extraction, precolumn derivatisation, reversed phase high pressure liquid chromatography and tandem gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry gave excellent agreement of values. Values for 11-dehydro-TXB2 excretion in 8 healthy controls were 501 + 298 (range 231 to 1141) ng/g creatinin. Excretion was suppressed by aspirin, moderately elevated in heavy smokers (range 680 to 1540) and increased in patients with venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism (2370 to 13350 ng/g creatinin). This rapid extraction method is useful for the highly specific and sensitive determination of 11-dehydro-TXB2 in large sample numbers.
Urinary metabolites of thromboxane and prostacyclin in diabetes mellitus.	The in vivo synthesis of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin was estimated in 23 diabetics through measurements of the major urinary metabolites 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF 1 alpha utilizing gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Mean excretion was similar to that in non-diabetic subjects. The possible influence of hyperglycemia on the excretion of 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF 1 alpha was evaluated in three ways: by measuring excretion before and during an acute 9-h normalization of hyperglycemia through an artificial pancreas (Biostator) as well as by comparing excretion before and 7-12 days or 40-180 days after the initiation of insulin treatment. Despite significant reducing effects on hyperglycemia or on levels of hemoglobin A 1c, no effects on the excretion of the thromboxane and prostacyclin metabolites could be found. Abnormal formation of thromboxane or prostacyclin is not a generalized feature of the diabetic state.
Thromboxane biosynthesis and platelet function in type I diabetes mellitus.	It has been speculated that platelet activation may contribute to the evolution of vascular complications in patients with Type I diabetes mellitus. To address this hypothesis, we measured the plasma and urinary metabolites of thromboxane, presumably of platelet origin, and of prostacyclin, derived from endothelial cells, in addition to more conventional indexes of platelet function. Urinary excretion of the metabolites 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha did not differ between diabetics with or without retinopathy and nondiabetic controls. Furthermore, measurement of platelet granule constituents, the aggregation responses to ADP or arachidonic acid, and levels of serum thromboxane B2 failed to discriminate between the groups. The institution of tight diabetic control with multiple daily injections of insulin failed to alter either urinary metabolite excretion or plasma levels of 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2. Conversely, insulin-induced hypoglycemia failed to alter the concentrations of plasma or urinary thromboxane metabolites in nondiabetic volunteers, despite a mean 60-fold increase in plasma epinephrine. These studies suggest that platelet activation does not precede the development of microvascular complications in patients with Type I diabetes who lack clinical evidence of macrovascular disease and have normal renal function. Furthermore, it is unlikely that platelet activation due to intermittent hypoglycemia contributes to the reportedly accelerated development of retinopathy in such patients, when they are subject to tight diabetic control.
Platelet activation in unstable coronary disease.	Pathological and clinical studies have suggested that platelets have a role in the pathogenesis of unstable angina and myocardial infarction. However, the relation of platelet activation to episodic ischemia in patients with unstable angina is unknown. We assessed the biosynthesis of thromboxane and prostacyclin as indexes of platelet activation in patients with stable and unstable coronary disease by physicochemical analysis of metabolites in plasma and urine. Prostacyclin biosynthesis was markedly elevated in patients with acute myocardial infarction and correlated with plasma creatine kinase (r = 0.795; P less than 0.001). The largest rise in thromboxane synthesis was observed in patients with unstable angina, in whom 84 percent of the episodes of chest pain were associated with phasic increases in the excretion of thromboxane and prostacyclin metabolites. However, 50 percent of such increases were not associated with chest pain, possibly reflecting silent myocardial ischemia. These data indicate that platelet activation occurs during spontaneous ischemia in patients with unstable angina. The increment in prostacyclin biosynthesis during such episodes may be a compensatory response of vascular endothelium that limits the degree or effects of platelet activation. If so, biochemically selective inhibition of the synthesis or action of thromboxane A2 would be desirable in the treatment of unstable angina. In contrast, thromboxane inhibitors or antagonists would not be expected to be effective in patients with chronic stable angina, in whom there was no increase in the formation of thromboxane A2.
Thromboxane and prostacyclin formation in patients with deep vein thrombosis.	The urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor-TxB2 and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha (the major urinary metabolites of thromboxane B2 and prostacyclin) was measured in ten patients with confirmed deep vein thrombosis, using specific methods based on gas chromatography - mass spectrometry with deuterium-labelled internal standards. Measurements of these major urinary metabolites makes it possible to monitor the in vivo formation of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin. The results demonstrate an abnormally high and very variable excretion of 2,3-dinor-TxB2 and 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha in patients with deep vein thrombosis. This indicate that both thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin are involved in the course of events associated with this disease.
Diethylhydrogensilyl-cyclic diethylsilylene derivatives in gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of prostanoids. III. F alpha-prostaglandins and thromboxane B2 derivatives.	The gas chromatographic (GC) and GC-mass spectrometric properties of the diethylhydrogensilyl-cyclic diethylsilylene (DEHS-DES) derivatives of prostaglandin (PG) F1 alpha methyl ester, PGF2 alpha methyl ester, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha methyl ester-alkyloxime and thromboxane (TX) B2 methyl ester-alkyloxime and the DES derivative of 13,14-dihydro-15-keto-PGF2 alpha methyl ester-alkyloxime were studied. When the ketonic PGs and TXB2 were converted into their methyloxime derivatives, the methylene unit values of these five prostanoid derivatives were slightly greater than those of the corresponding dimethylethylsilyl ether derivatives. When the ketonic PGs were converted into their corresponding ethyloxime derivatives, baseline separation was achieved in 20 min by use of a methylsilicone cross-linked fused-silica capillary column. The mass spectra of these derivatives were characterized by the ion at m/z 157 for F alpha prostaglandins and m/z 269 for TXB2. The major fragmentations were directed by the DES group, and other fragmentations common to the prostanoid derivatives were losses of an ethyl radical at the silicon atom, C5H11 hydrocarbon fragment, diethylhydrogensilanol and C15-C20 hydrocarbon fragment. The mass fragmentations of these prostanoid derivatives are briefly discussed. GC with high-resolution selected-ion monitoring was carried out for the TXB2 derivative at a resolution of 8000 by monitoring the ion at m/z 269.1573. A 25-pg amount of this derivative showed a well shaped doublet with a signal-to-noise ratio of more than 300:1.
Biochemical evidence of platelet activation in patients with persistent unstable angina.	Thromboxane released from activated platelets and prostacyclin of the vessel wall may act as potent antagonistic modulators of platelet aggregability and coronary vascular tone. Therefore, urinary excretion of their major metabolites, 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 and 2,3-dinor-6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha, was studied in 16 patients presenting with prolonged angina at rest. The 10 patients whose condition did not improve under vigorous antianginal treatment within 48 hours exhibited higher thromboxane metabolite excretion than did the 6 patients who responded to therapy (2,208 +/- 1,542 versus 609 +/- 312 ng/g creatinine; p less than 0.001). Elevated values were also found in four of eight patients with sustained postinfarction angina. Enhanced thromboxane metabolite excretion was frequently associated with angiographic evidence of thrombus formation. When nine patients were restudied in a stable phase after 11 +/- 5 months, thromboxane metabolite excretion was consistently normal or high normal. Excretion of prostacyclin metabolites was not depressed in any patient but correlated weakly with thromboxane (r = 0.41). Thus, enhanced thromboxane production as an index of platelet activation may identify patients with active thrombus formation who could benefit most from platelet inhibitory treatment.
Tandem mass spectrometric determination of 11-dehydrothromboxane B2, an index metabolite of thromboxane B2 in plasma and urine.	11-Dehydrothromboxane B2 is one of the major enzymatic metabolites of thromboxane B2 (TXB2), a biologically inactive product of thromboxane A2. The short half-life of thromboxane A2 and ex vivo production of thromboxane B2 by platelet activation make these prostanoid metabolites inappropriate as indices of systemic thromboxane biosynthesis, whereas 11-dehydro-TXB2 has been shown to reflect the release of thromboxane A2 in the human blood circulation. Analysis of 11-dehydro-TXB2 in plasma and urine was performed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-mass spectrometry using the chemically synthesized tetradeuterated compound as an internal standard. The high selectivity of triple-stage quadrupole mass spectrometry (tandem mass spectrometry) considerably facilitates sample purification as compared to single quadrupole mass spectrometric determination. Plasma concentrations in five healthy male volunteers were in the range 0.8-2.5 pg/ml. Urinary excretion of 11-dehydro-TXB2 was higher than that of 2,3-dinor-TXB2: 1.2 +/- 0.36 micrograms/24 h vs 0.53 +/- 0.33 micrograms/24 h (n = 5). Thus 11-dehydro-TXB2 appears at present to be the best index metabolite of systemic TXA2 activity in plasma as well as in urine.
Mass spectrometric evidence for the anomalous chemical behavior of 11-dehydrothromboxane B2.	When we subjected 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-DTXB2), a metabolite of arachidonic acid, to standard chemical derivatization procedures we obtained a mixture of several products. Separation of the components was carried out by gas chromatography and their identification was accomplished through the study of their mass spectra, which are presented here. Anomalous behaviors include methylation of allylic and alcoholic hydroxyl groups by diazomethane, unusually slow derivatization of one of the hydroxyl groups with N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl)-trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA) and etherification of another with ethanol. The underlying causes of these abnormal behaviors are not obvious, but appear to be related, at least in part, to the opening/closure of a lactone ring in the molecule. These observations have some bearing on the development of valid procedures for GC-MS quantification of this important marker of thromboxane A2 synthesis in vivo, and of similar compounds.
Liver lipoxygenase arachidonic acid metabolites in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.	We have studied the liver 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15-HETE) and leukotriene B4 (LTB4) levels in streptozotocin- (ST)-induced diabetes in rats using liquid chromatography and radioimmunological techniques. Diabetic rats showed significant alterations of liver lipoxygenase metabolites when compared to controls. These 15-HETE and LTB4 increases were concomitant with raised levels of plasma and tissue thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and also urinary 2,3-dinor-TXB2 in plasma and urine, respectively. These changes confirm an activation of 5- and 15-lipoxygenase in the liver 3 days after i.p. ST administration.
Effects of unfractionated and low molecular weight heparins on platelet thromboxane biosynthesis "in vivo".	Several "in vitro" and "in vivo" studies indicate that heparin administration may affect platelet function. In this study we investigated the effects of prophylactic heparin on thromboxane (Tx)A2 biosynthesis "in vivo", as assessed by the urinary excretion of major enzymatic metabolites 11-dehydro-TxB2 and 2,3-dinor-TxB2. Twenty-four patients who were candidates for cholecystectomy because of uncomplicated lithiasis were randomly assigned to receive placebo, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin or unfractionated heparin plus 100 mg aspirin. Measurements of daily excretion of Tx metabolites were performed before and during the treatment. In the groups assigned to placebo and to low molecular weight heparin there was no statistically significant modification of Tx metabolite excretion while patients receiving unfractionated heparin had a significant increase of both metabolites (11-dehydro-TxB2: 3844 +/- 1388 vs 2092 +/- 777, p < 0.05; 2,3-dinor-TxB2: 2737 +/- 808 vs 1535 +/- 771 pg/mg creatinine, p < 0.05). In patients randomized to receive low-dose aspirin plus unfractionated heparin the excretion of the two metabolites was largely suppressed thus suggesting that platelets are the primary source of enhanced thromboxane biosynthesis associated with heparin administration. These data indicate that unfractionated heparin causes platelet activation "in vivo" and suggest that the use of low molecular weight heparin may avoid this complication.
Norepinephrine-induced human platelet activation in vivo is only partly counteracted by aspirin.	Epinephrine and mental stress may, via platelet stimulation, enhance the risk of thrombus formation. Norepinephrine is more likely than epinephrine to activate platelets in vivo because of higher levels in plasma but is less well studied in this respect. The antiplatelet drug of choice for patients with coronary artery disease, aspirin, may be less effective during sympathoadrenal activation. We therefore investigated platelet responses in vivo to exogenous norepinephrine with and without aspirin pretreatment.
Chronic thromboxane synthase inhibition with CGS 12970 in human cyclosporine nephrotoxicity.	CsA nephrotoxicity in rats is associated with an increase in renal thromboxane production. Treatment with selective thromboxane synthase inhibitors or receptor antagonists improves renal function in these animal models. In humans, it is unclear whether intervention aimed at reducing the effects of thromboxane on the kidney will be clinically useful. However, we reported previously that thromboxane metabolite excretion is increased in CsA-treated renal allograft recipients with evidence of CsA toxicity and that 48-hr intravenous infusion of the selective thromboxane synthase inhibitor CGS 13080 improves renal function in such patients. We undertook the present study to determine the effect of more prolonged treatment with an oral thromboxane synthase inhibitor, CGS 12970, in renal transplant recipients taking CsA. We measured glomerular filtration rate and p-aminohippurate clearance before and after 4 weeks of treatment with CGS 12970 in 13 patients with renal allografts who had been treated with CsA for a mean 6.3 months and had mild renal insufficiency. Baseline serum creatinine was 1.8 +/- 0.3. Treatment with CGS 12970 resulted in 83% inhibition of urinary thromboxane B2 (TXB2), 93% inhibition of 2,3-dinor-TXB2, and 89% inhibition of 11-dehydro-TXB2, but no change in the urinary excretion of prostacyclin metabolites. However, suppression of urinary thromboxane metabolites to these levels did not significantly affect renal function. Glomerular filtration rate was 45 +/- 4 ml/min/1.73 m2 at baseline and 43 +/- 4 ml/min/1.73 m2 after 4 weeks of treatment with CGS 12970. Estimated renal plasma flow was 272 +/- 21 ml/min/1.73 m2 at baseline and 251 +/- 38 ml/min/1.73 m2 with thromboxane synthase inhibition. Thus, substantial suppression of thromboxane production with CGS 12970 did not improve renal function in CsA-treated renal allograft recipients.
Evidence for sustained platelet activation in patients with early postinfarction angina.	Excretion of 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 released from activated platelets has been found elevated in patients with acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina. To investigate the role of thrombotic activity in postinfarction angina we measured urinary concentrations of 2,3-dinorthromboxane B2 in 20 patients over 10 days after myocardial infarction. Compared with 11 patients recovering pain-free, excretion of 2,3-dinorthromboxane B2 was found elevated in 9 patients who developed postinfarction angina. Accordingly, early postinfarction angina appears to be associated with ongoing thrombotic activity.
Evidence of free radical-mediated injury (isoprostane overproduction) in scleroderma.	Free radical-induced oxidative stress with consequent lipid peroxidation and resultant tissue damage has been suggested as a potential mechanism of the pathogenesis of scleroderma. However, because reliable measurement of lipid peroxidation in vivo is difficult, it has not been possible to adequately examine this hypothesis. We have previously described a series of bioactive prostaglandin F2-like compounds, termed F2-isoprostanes, produced in vivo in humans by the non-cyclooxygenase, free radical-catalyzed, peroxidation of arachidonic acid and have shown them to be a reliable measure of lipid peroxidation in vivo. In the present study, we determined whether scleroderma is associated with enhanced oxidative stress.
Modulation of oxidant stress in vivo in chronic cigarette smokers.	Free radical-induced oxidative damage is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of diseases associated with cigarette smoking. We examined the production of 8-epi-prostaglandin (PG) F2 alpha, a stable product of lipid peroxidation in vivo, and its modulation by aspirin and antioxidant vitamins in chronic cigarette smokers.
Correlation among urinary eosinophil protein X, leukotriene E4, and 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 in patients with spontaneous asthmatic attack.	Various kinds of cells and their mediators are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma. However, changes in each mediator or relationship among mediators during an asthmatic attack have not been well documented. In this study, to clarify whether eosinophil protein X (EPX) is a marker which is distinct from leukotriene E4 (LTE4), or 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11DTXB2), we measured the urinary excretion of EPX, LTE4, and 11DTXB2 in 14 asthmatics who were admitted to the hospital with either an acute asthmatic attack or status asthmaticus. These patients included eight atopic and six non-atopic types of bronchial asthma, with a median age of 34.0 years. Urinary excretion of EPX was significantly high on admission with the asthmatic attack, and returned to control levels 175 [122 -384] microg/day when the patients were in the improved state (1036-317 microg/day, P < 0.01). Similar findings were observed in LTE4 (155-59 ng/day, P < 0.01) and 11DTXB2 (991-442ng/day, P<0.01). No significant differences in values were observed between atopic and non-atopic types of asthma in all three substances. When the individual data during the attack state were analysed, a significant correlation was observed between changes (%) in urinary EPX and those in urinary LTE4, but no such relationship was observed between changes (%) in urinary EPX and those in urinary 11DTXB2. These results suggest that measuring urinary EPX levels may be a useful marker for the understanding and management of the disease.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is associated with an increase in urinary levels of isoprostane F2alpha-III, an index of oxidant stress.	Oxidative stress has been suggested as a potential mechanism in the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It has been difficult to address this hypothesis because of the limitations of conventional indices of lipid peroxidation in vivo. F2-isoprostanes (iPs) are prostaglandin isomers formed by free radical dependent peroxidation of arachidonic acid. Urinary iPF2alpha-III is a relatively abundant iPs produced in humans. In the present study, we investigated whether COPD is associated with enhanced oxidative stress by measuring urinary levels of this compound. Urinary excretion of iPF2alpha-III was determined in 38 patients with COPD and 30 sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects. Levels of iPF2alpha-III were significantly higher in patients with COPD (median, 84 pmol/ mmol creatinine; range, 38 to 321) than in healthy controls (median, 35.5 pmol/mmol creatinine; range, 15 to 65) (p < 0.0001). This elevation was independent of age, sex, smoking history, or duration of the disease. An inverse relationship was observed with the level of PaO2 (r = -0.38, p = 0. 019). Aspirin treatment failed to decrease urinary levels of iPF2alpha-III (102 +/- 8 versus 99.2 +/- 7.3 pmol/ mmol creatinine), whereas 11-dehydro TxB2 was significantly reduced (695 +/- 74 versus 95 +/- 10 pmol/mmol creatinine) (p < 0.0001). Elevated levels of iPF2alpha-III (median, 125 pmol/mmol creatinine; range, 110 to 170) in five patients with COPD declined (median, 90 pmol/mmol creatinine; range, 70 to 110) (p < 0.001) as an acute exacerbation in their clinical condition resolved. Increased urinary iPF2alpha-III is consistent with the hypothesis that oxidative stress occurs in COPD. This provides a basis for dose finding and evaluation of antioxidant therapy in the treatment of this disease.
