Shredding embolectomy thrombectomy catheter for treatment of acute lower-limb ischemia.	We undertook a prospective evaluation to prove a new mechanical thrombectomy device, the shredding embolectomy thrombectomy catheter (S.E.T. catheter), for the treatment of patients with acute lower-limb ischemia. The study evaluated the success, patency, mortality, limb salvage, and complication rates for 51 patients treated from January 1994 through June 1996, with this device, which was an 8-F three-lumen catheter. The onset of symptoms was 8.6 +/- 9 days. Thrombus length was 18 +/- 9 cm situated in 44 native vessels and in 7 bypasses, 42 limbs were graded as threatened. Hydromechanical thrombectomy with the S.E.T. catheter proved to be a quick and safe adjunct for therapy of acute femoropopliteal thromboembolic occlusions with a high initial success rate and an acceptable mid-term patency rate.
In vitro effectiveness study for hydrodynamic thrombectomy devices of the second generation.	To determine the efficacy of clot removal and the amount of applied saline and aspirated fluid and to compare procedure-related particle embolization for the hydrodynamic thrombectomy devices the LF 140 Angiojet (LF 140), the double-lumen Hydrolyser (double HL), and the triple-lumen Hydrolyser (triple HL) in an in vitro flow model.
A new thrombectomy catheter device (AngioJet) for the disruption of thrombi: An in vitro study.	In this study we examined a new thrombectomy catheter device. Different kinds of in vitro generated thrombi and cadaver thrombi were disrupted in test tubes. The mean disruption rate (and disruption time for 1 g of thrombus) was 225 +/- 65 mg/sec (5 +/- 2 sec) for whole-blood, 117 +/- 60 mg/sec (12 +/- 9 sec) for fibrin, 41 +/- 18 mg/sec (30 +/- 18 sec) for mixed, 70 +/- 42 mg/sec (17 +/- 5 sec) for unorganized, 45 +/- 8 mg/sec (22 +/- 4 sec) for partly, and 5 +/- 1 mg/sec (216 +/- 29 sec) for completely organized cadaver thrombi (P < 0.05). More than 99% of fragmented particles of whole-blood thrombi were 0-12 microm in diameter. The particle size of fibrin, mixed, and cadaver thrombi was similar, with 25%-40% of particles between 0-12 microm, 55%-71% >12-24 microm, and 2%-7% >24 microm. The device may be effectively used in the therapy of massive pulmonary embolism or acute peripheral and coronary artery syndromes when medical thrombolysis is contraindicated and organization of thrombus is absent. Further studies need to be performed to investigate the potential effects of particle microembolization. Cathet. Cardiovasc. Intervent. 47:381-389, 1999.
Treatment of obstructive nephroureteral clot with a rheolytic mechanical thrombectomy device.	Thrombus within the renal collecting system and ureter after percutaneous intervention is usually self-limited, but when it is obstructive enough to produce anuria, it can cause deterioration of renal function. Herein a case of a patient with a transplant kidney in whom clot anuria developed after conversion of a nephroureteral stent to a nephrostomy catheter is presented. Internal urine drainage was restored with the use of a rheolytic mechanical thrombectomy device, with subsequent return of normal renal function.
Mechanical thrombectomy for DVT.	Deep venous thrombosis is a common source of morbidity and mortality in the United States. Complications include pulmonary embolism and chronic post-thrombotic syndrome. Chronic post-thrombotic syndrome is characterized by extremity pain, edema, venous claudication, skin changes, and skin ulceration. This syndrome is attributed to venous obstruction and valvular damage due to thrombus. The standard treatment of deep venous thrombosis consists of medical management with anticoagulation. Anticoagulation has proven efficacy in prevention of thrombus extension, pulmonary embolus, and re-thrombosis. The role of anticoagulation in post-thrombotic syndrome is unclear. Aggressive endovascular techniques for managing DVT have evolved as a result. Catheter-directed thrombolysis was the first such procedure with demonstrated efficacy, however its acceptance has been limited by perceived risks, time to lysis, and cost. As a result, alternative measures for managing DVT have evolved including mechanical thrombectomy. Mechanical thrombectomy for DVT has the potential to shorten the time for lysis, reduce the risk of thrombolytic agents, and potentially impact cost savings.
Mechanical thrombectomy of the internal carotid artery and middle cerebral arteries for acute stroke by using the retriever device.	We report a case of mechanical thrombectomy in which a new device, the Retriever, was used for acute cerebral ischemia in the setting of extensive occlusion of the left internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries. Excellent radiographic and clinical results were obtained. The Retriever is currently approved and available for foreign body extraction and for intracranial thrombectomy when used as part of the Mechanical Embolus Removal in Cerebral Ischemia, or MERCI, clinical trial. This device was able to retrieve and remove clots efficiently from the intracranial and extracranial circulation, offering a new therapeutic alternative in the treatment of acute cerebral ischemic disease.
Novel method for extraction of a massive refractory coronary thrombus after stent implantation.	Percutaneous treatment of thrombotic coronary lesions is associated with an increased incidence of complications. In particular, management of massive coronary thrombus refractory to traditional methods of removal may be especially problematic. We report a novel application of the FilterWire distal protection device to retrieve a massive refractory native coronary thrombus present after drug-eluting stent implantation.
A case of massive pulmonary embolism treated with angiojet thrombectomy system]	Pulmonary embolism is a common disease process associated with a high mortality rate. In patients with massive pulmonary embolism, systemic thrombolysis is considered to be the treatment of choice, but surgical or catheter thrombectomy may be alternative emergency treatments. A 36-year-old woman with massive pulmonary embolism and contraindications to thrombolytic therapy was treated with catheter thrombectomy using the Angiojet thrombectomy system. The procedure was successfully performed with an excellent immediate angiographic result at the site of the rheolytic thrombectomy. The clinical improvement was maintained while in-hospital and during a 4-month follow-up period, with a decrease to a normal level of the peak systolic pulmonary pressure. Our case report indicates that in patients with contraindications to systemic thrombolysis, catheter thrombectomy for massive pulmonary embolism may constitute a life-saving intervention.
Approaches to mechanical coronary thrombectomy.	Coronary thrombi are an integral part of acute coronary syndromes. Since the introduction of the AngioJet Rheolytic thrombectomy device in 1999, mechanical thrombectomy has replaced intracoronary thrombolysis during catheter-based procedures. Other approaches include simple suction aspiration, cut and aspirate devices and clot disruption by ultrasound or laser-induced cavitation. These device classes differ in the completeness of thrombus removal, ease of use, complication profile, as well as clinical evidence of benefit. The current approaches to mechanical thrombectomy are reviewed from these perspectives.
Incidence, predictors, and outcomes of device failure of X-sizer thrombectomy: real-world experience of 200 cases in 5 years.	Clinical studies have evaluated the safety and efficacy of adjunctive X-sizer (EndiCOR Inc, San Clemente, CA) in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, patient and lesion subsets were highly selected, and extrapolation of the results to daily practice is problematic.
Diver CE versus Guardwire Plus for thrombectomy in patients with inferior myocardial infarction: a trial of aspiration of thrombus during primary angioplasty for inferior myocardial infarction.	Different feasible and safe thrombectomy and distal protection devices have been used in clinical practice. The efficiency and safety of adjunct thrombectomy using Diver CE device (Invatec, Italy) versus Guardwire Plus device (Medtronic, USA) before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) were compared in patients with acute inferior ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) for less than 12 hours, thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) flow grade 0 to 1, and total occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery (= 3 mm in diameter) in a prospective randomized single-center study.
Power-pulse spray thrombectomy for treatment of Paget-Schroetter syndrome.	This initial single-center study describes three cases of axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis (Paget-Schroetter syndrome) treated with a rapid, novel thrombectomy technique, termed "power-pulse spray thrombectomy," in which a thrombolytic agent is directly infused into the clot via a catheter, followed by intravascular mechanical clot fracture and removal.
Rapid intracranial clot removal with a new device: the alligator retriever.	Despite availability of an approved drug to treat acute cerebral ischemia, most patients with stroke do not realize a good outcome. A method that would rapidly increase or restore cerebral perfusion before irreversible cell death should improve patient outcomes.
Adjunctive thrombectomy for acute myocardial infarction: A bayesian meta-analysis.	In available trials and meta-analyses, adjunctive thrombectomy in acute myocardial infarction (MI) improves markers of myocardial reperfusion but has limited effects on clinical outcomes. Thrombectomy devices simply aspirate thrombus or mechanically fragment it before aspiration. Simple aspiration thrombectomy may offer a distinct advantage.
The start of a new era for stroke treatment: mechanical thrombectomy devices.	Stroke is a major cause of mortality in the U.K. accounting for 53,000 deaths every year. There are few options for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) remains the only approved and currently available thrombolytic therapy given within the first 3 hours after symptom onset. Mechanical thrombectomy is a promising new treatment modality for patients who are ineligible for or failing intravenous rt-PA, or presenting beyond the narrow 3-hour therapeutic window, and emerged with the development of the Merci retrieval system. A number of devices are now available and can be divided into two major subgroups according to their mode of action. Those using a proximal approach such as aspiration devices (Penumbra system) act by applying a vacuum to the proximal aspect of the thrombus whereas distal devices (Merci retrieval system, Phenox clot retriever, and Catch device) such as coil-like and basket-like devices are advanced through the thrombus thereby contacting its distal aspect. In this review, we discuss the procedure and technique, as well as evidence associated with four mechanical retrieval systems currently available: the Merci Retriever System, the Penumbra system, the Catch device, and the Phenox clot retriever. We also consider potentialnovel approaches for stroke treatment including waterjet thrombectomy and laser recanalization.
Stent for temporary endovascular bypass and thrombectomy in major ischemic stroke.	Endovascular techniques for acute stroke have evolved from a pharmacological to a mechanical approach. We report illustrative cases of successful anterior circulation recanalization in patients with large arterial occlusions, using a stent-based technique to perform arterial recanalization and thrombectomy, without permanent stent implantation. Four patients (mean age 59 years), presented with National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores of 18 to 24, from 2 hours to 6 hours after stroke onset, with middle cerebral artery (MCA), MCA branch, internal carotid artery (ICA) terminus, or tandem ICA-MCA occlusions. A closed-cell stent was temporarily inserted to achieve temporary endovascular bypass, and then used as a thrombectomy device during withdrawal. Rapid and complete recanalization with successful thrombectomy was achieved in all patients within 28 minutes to 52 minutes. One week after treatment patients achieved NIHSS scores of 2 to 5, with no hemorrhagic complications. This approach allowed rapid endovascular revascularization and thrombectomy, without permanent stent implant. Stent-based thrombectomy devices may become a valuable tool in the management of acute ischemic stroke.
Thrombus aspiration for treating distal coronary macroemboli during primary percutaneous coronary intervention.	Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) of thrombus-containing lesions are associated with increased risk of complications such as distal coronary embolisation and impaired coronary circulation. Although the use of thrombectomy devices to aspirate thrombus during primary PCI is currently not routinely recommended, there is growing evidence suggesting the use of thrombus aspiration catheters during PCI. Here, we report the case of a 70 year-old patient undergoing thrombus aspiration therapy because of the development of coronary bifurcation macroemboli during initial phase of primary PCI. After successful thrombus aspiration therapy, dramatic improvements in both coronary flow and ST-segment resolution were achieved.
Preliminary experience with the use of self-expanding stent as a thrombectomy device in ischemic stroke.	Stent-based techniques may allow rapid arterial recanalization in acute stroke. We present our experience using a self-expanding stent to achieve a transient bypass, and then as a thrombectomy device, with no permanent stent implantation, in acute stroke.
Mechanical thrombectomy for acute ischemic stroke]	The therapy of acute ischemic stroke aims at fast recanalization of the occluded brain vessel. In contrast to intravenous thrombolysis (IVT), endovascular approaches yield higher recanalization rates especially in large vessel occlusions. Mechanical thrombectomy with the Merci Retriever received FDA approval in 2004 as an adjunct to IVT or in the case of failed recanalization after IVT. The time window for treatment is 8 h from stroke onset. However, the recanalization rate was 55 %, still leaving space for further improvement. In addition to the Merci Retriever, the Penumbra System received FDA approval in 2008. The newest endovascular approach comprising retrievable intracranial stents results in an increased recanalization rate exceeding 90 % and has markedly reduced the time to recanalization. On the other hand, the complication rate has not increased yet. These promising results suggest a combined therapy for acute ischemic stroke. In a first step IVT can be started independently of the size of the treating hospital and in a next step the patient is transferred to a neuroradiological center. If vessel occlusion persists, additional endovascular recanalization is performed (bridging concept). Patients who don't qualify for IVT are candidates for mechanical thrombectomy up to 8 h after stroke onset.
Acute superior mesenteric artery embolism: reperfusion with AngioJet hydrodynamic suction thrombectomy and pharmacologic thrombolysis with the EKOS catheter.	Acute mesenteric ischemia is commonly treated by surgical exploration and open thrombectomy. Very few reports describe using newer, minimally invasive methods which utilize catheter-based mechanical and pharmacological thrombolysis. Herein, we report a case of acute superior mesenteric embolism successfully treated with AngioJet hydrodynamic mechanical thrombectomy and EKOS catheter pharmacological thrombolysis. A 76-year-old man with new onset atrial fibrillation presented with abdominal pain of 48 hours duration. Subsequent contrast computed tomography scan of the abdomen revealed a filling defect in the superior mesenteric artery (SMA), suggestive of an acute embolus, which was confirmed by SMA angiogram. The AngioJet aspiration device was used for hydrodynamic suction thrombectomy. The repeat angiogram demonstrated only a partial restoration of blood flow, and thus the EKOS tissue plasminogen activator catheter was left in the SMA for continuous thrombolysis. The patient underwent continuous thrombolysis for two days, with two subsequent sessions of angiography. Thereafter, the patient improved symptomatically and serum lactate was normalized. In conclusion, the AngioJet suction thrombectomy and pharmaco-mechanical thrombolysis using the EKOS catheter is associated with minimal morbidity and can be rapidly performed. It may be used as an alternative to open surgical thrombectomy in selected cases of acute SMA embolism.
Manual aspiration thrombectomy through balloon-tipped guide catheter for rapid clot burden reduction in endovascular therapy for ICA L/T occlusion.	Timely recanalization during endovascular procedures for acute ischemic stroke can be challenging in cases with large clot burden, such as those encountered in the terminal internal carotid T- or L-type occlusion.
Thrombus extraction catheters vs. angiojet rheolytic thrombectomy in thrombotic lesions/SV grafts.	Primary percutaneous coronary intervention, (pPCI), of native coronaries and saphenous vein grafts (SVGs), is the recommended reperfusion strategy for STEMI, and an early invasive approach is recommended for high risk patients with UA/NSTEMI. Although PCI effectively restores flow in the infarct related artery/culprit vessel in both situations, myocardial perfusion often remains suboptimal due to microvascular obstruction, partly attributed to distal embolization of thrombus. Hence, thrombectomy (manual or mechanical), prior to stenting may further reduce hard clinical end points in patients with ACS. This article discusses accumulated evidence regarding the safety and effectiveness of thrombectomy in culprit native coronaries and SVGs in such patients, as well as possible strategies for maximizing its benefits relative to the size of the thrombotic burden.
Embolic protection devices in saphenous vein graft and native vessel percutaneous intervention: a review.	The clinical benefit of percutaneous intervention (PCI) depends on both angiographic success at the site of intervention as well as the restoration of adequate microvascular perfusion. Saphenous vein graft intervention is commonly associated with evidence of distal plaque embolization, which is correlated with worse clinical outcomes. Despite successful epicardial intervention in the acute MI patient treated with primary PCI, distal tissue perfusion may still be absent in up to 25% of cases [1-3]. Multiple devices and pharmacologic regimens have been developed and refined in an attempt to protect the microvascular circulation during both saphenous vein graft intervention and primary PCI in the acute MI setting. We will review the evidence for various techniques for embolic protection of the distal myocardium during saphenous vein graft PCI and primary PCI in the native vessel.
Stent-based thrombectomy versus intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in patients with acute middle cerebral artery occlusion.	Our goal was to compare outcomes of patients with proximal middle cerebral artery occlusions treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) with those of patients treated with stent-based thrombectomy (SBT).
Mechanical revascularization of acute iatrogenic anterior cerebral artery occlusions: use of a new coaxial dual-lumen balloon catheter results in rapid access and flow restoration.	Acute iatrogenic occlusion of cerebral vessels is a risk during the performance of neuroendovascular procedures. Most commonly this is a result of thrombus formation within the vessel, thromboembolism or an acute vasospastic response. There are several options for flow restoration including pharmacological, mechanical and microsurgical. Mechanical flow restoration, usually by thrombectomy, is typically performed in large cerebral vessels. Current mechanical thrombectomy devices have limited utility in smaller vessels that are more difficult to access, such as the anterior cerebral artery (ACA). We present two cases where successful flow restoration of an intraoperative acutely occluded or thrombotic ACA was rapidly achieved by balloon dilation using a new coaxial dual-lumen balloon catheter. The time elapsed from the decision to use the balloon catheter until revascularization for each patient was 5 min and 46 s (case 1) and 10 min and 25 s (case 2).
Thrombus aspiration during ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.	The clinical effect of routine intracoronary thrombus aspiration before primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is uncertain. We aimed to evaluate whether thrombus aspiration reduces mortality.
Neurothrombectomy in the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke.	Major ischaemic stroke is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in industrialized countries. For patients with acute stroke, fast and effective vessel recanalization is important for successful treatment. Neurothrombectomy--that is, angiographically performed mechanical thrombus removal from intracranial arteries--results in higher recanalization rates than with pharmaceutical thrombolysis alone, but the value of this treatment in terms of clinical outcome remains to be established. This article summarizes the history of intra-arterial stroke treatment, outlines the recent developments and the different techniques used, and discusses the results of current studies on neurothrombectomy. Owing to the high morphological and clinical variability of stroke, careful patient selection in future randomized controlled trials will be crucial for assessment of the true potential of neurothrombectomy.
A novel application of GuideLiner catheter for thrombectomy in acute myocardial infarction: a case series.	Angiographically visible thrombus and distal embolization are relatively common during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in myocardial infarction (MI) and correspond to worse outcomes. Several aspiration and thrombectomy devices have been shown to be effective for prevention of distal embolization. We present a technique with successful use of the GuideLiner catheter (Vascular Solutions) for thrombus aspiration after dedicated manual aspiration thrombectomy devices have failed. Our case series includes large thrombus burden in clinical scenarios of ST-elevation MI in a native vessel, non-ST elevation MI in a vein graft, and ST-elevation MI due to native vessel in stent thrombosis. 
Disconnection of the rubber tip of arrow-trerotola percutaneous thrombolytic device.	A rubber tip disconnection of Arrow-Trerotola percutaneous thrombolytic device (PTD) may occur occasionally. We experienced 5 cases of a rubber tip disconnection among 453 mechanical thrombectomy sessions with the use of PTD. We present a report about these five cases and suggest possible causes for the occurrences. 
New expandable access sheath for endovascular visualization and repair.	Catheter-based endovascular techniques are becoming increasingly important. Access to the vascular lumen is the single most critical common step to all these interventions. This report describes the concept of, and initial clinical experience with, a new expandable access sheath for endovascular therapy.
Rheolytic thrombectomy in the treatment of acute limb-threatening ischemia: immediate results and six-month follow-up of the multicenter AngioJet registry. Possis Peripheral AngioJet Study AngioJet Investigators.	We tested the efficacy of rheolytic thrombectomy in treating 21 patients (mean age 68+/-12 years; 66% male) and 22 vessels (limbs) who presented to the hospital within 2 weeks of the development of limb-threatening ischemia. Fifty-two percent had contraindications to use thrombolytics, and 57% had severe comorbidities. All of the vessels were occluded with thrombus on the initial angiogram. Procedural success was achieved in 20 limbs (91%). Three patients expired in the hospital, and one expired at follow-up due to nonvascular causes. Acute limb salvage was achieved in 18 of 19 limbs (95%) in the 18 survivors, and 6-month limb salvage was achieved in 16 of 18 limbs (89%) in the 17 survivors. Rheolytic thrombectomy is effective in restoring immediate blood flow in acute limb-threatening ischemia, especially in high-risk surgical patients or patients with contraindications to thrombolytic therapy.
Mechanical thrombectomy of massive pulmonary embolism using an Arrow-Trerotola percutaneous thrombolytic device.	Mechanical thrombectomy of a large central thrombus in massive pulmonary embolism is a new option for the treatment of this serious condition. The special mechanical devices designed to fragmentize a blood clot include the Arrow-Trerotola percutaneous thrombolytic device (PTD), the use of which in the pulmonary arteries has not yet been reported. The case of massive embolism into the left pulmonary artery with subsequent collapse is to demonstrate the immediately clinically successful treatment using the PTD. Our initial experience with the PTD shows that its use is a safe and quick procedure.
