Florid reactive periostitis of the thumb: a case report and review of the literature.	Florid reactive periostitis is a rare benign bone lesion that occurs most often in the phalanges of hands and feet. Histologic evaluation is commonly required to distinguish this benign lesion from clinically indistinguishable malignant and infectious disorders. The lesion is typically self-limiting or cured by local excision; however, in very aggressive cases ray amputation may be indicated. The authors report a case of florid reactive periostitis affecting the thumb with satisfactory outcome and without recurrence at 2-year follow-up.
Ligament reconstruction for the chronic instability of the traumatic thumb carpometacarpal joint]	We evaluated the results of ligament reconstruction performed for chronic instability of the traumatic thumb carpometacarpal joint.
Thumb reconstruction by pedicled transfer of the second toe.	Microsurgery and free tissue transfer play a vital role in the modern practice of reconstructive surgery. Prior to the advent of microsurgical free tissue transfer pedicle flaps were the workhorse of a reconstructive surgeon. We report a case of thumb reconstruction by pedicled transfer of the second toe with functional and aesthetic outcome. This case was performed in Pakistan where microsurgical facilities were not available.
Minimal invasive cannulated screw osteosynthesis of Bennett's fractures]	The current study presents a new technique and results of minimal invasive screw osteosynthesis in the treatment of Bennett's fractures and discusses its advantages and disadvantages.
The value of pollicization in the reconstruction of thumb injuries in adults. Observations apropos of 15 cases]	Pollicisation remains a good solution to restore the function of the adult thumb after injury. This technique requires a good knowledge of plastic hand surgery to perform an emergency or secondary reconstruction, sparing the functional integrity and enhancing the value of the stumps. The authors report their own experience of 15 cases treated between 1985-1990.
Long-term results of early primary repair of flexor pollicis longus tendon injuries]	We evaluated the long-term results of early primary repair of flexor pollicis longus (FPL) tendon injuries with the modified Kessler method and circumferential sutures.
Lengthening of the phalanges by callus distraction in traumatic amputations of the fingers]	We evaluated the results of lengthening of the phalanges by callus distraction in traumatic amputations of the fingers.
Rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon: a study of aetiological factors.	Although rupture of the extensor pollicis longus (EPL) tendon is a well-known complication of distal radial fractures, a number of patients rupture the EPL because of other conditions. We have retrospectively studied the aetiology of 27 ruptures of the EPL in 26 consecutive patients. Of 19 patients with injured wrists 12 had distal radial fractures, five had blunt trauma, and two had stab wounds that resulted in rupture. In the radial fractures operated on, the EPL rupture was caused by chafing against a dorsal plate (n = 2) or wear against the pins of an external fixator (n = 2). Six patients were taking steroids for systemic diseases and in two cases a local steroid injection was given just before the rupture. We conclude that previous injury is the most common cause of rupture of the EPL. but that rheumatoid arthritis or local or systemic steroids, or both, are also important aetiological factors. Seven patients had an iatrogenic cause for their rupture.
Free "kite" flap: a new flap for reconstruction of small hand defects.	Small, thin, and pliable flaps are frequently required in hand surgery to reconstruct defects in functionally important areas such as the pulp or the "contact zones" of the digits. The innervated first metacarpal artery flap ("kite" flap) is a reliable procedure to restore sensibility in the thumb and the digits. Four microsurgical (free) kite flaps to the hand were performed between February, 1993 and August, 1999 in male patients. Follow-up examinations were performed in three patients. The static two-point discrimination in the kite flaps ranged from 8 to 15 mm and did not show any difference compared to flaps from the foot described in the literature. Semmes-Weinstein testing results ranged from normal to protective sensation with a normal sharp vs. dull discrimination. A free kite flap provides a valuable, safe alternative to venous flaps or other free flaps for reconstruction of small defects in the hand
The first metatarsal web space: its applied anatomy and usage in tracing the first dorsal metatarsal artery in thumb reconstruction.	To clarify the anatomical relationship of the structures in the first toe webbing space for better dissection of toes in thumb reconstruction.
Bone tuberculosis of the thumb unmasked by injury]	Tuberculous dactylis is uncommon, which makes it difficult to differentiate from tumorous and metabolic affections. Histological analysis constitutes a reliable and easy way to achieve a positive diagnosis, especially as the bacteriological findings can be negative. We report the case of a 43-year-old woman who consulted for a painful right thumb following an injury. Radiographs showed a fracture of the proximal phalanx through a lytic lesion. Pathology examination of a biopsy specimen revealed granulomata with caseous necrosis, specific to tuberculosis. The clinical signs and radiographs resolved after anti-tuberculosis treatment for 12 months.
Arthrodesis of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint using a cannulated screw and threaded washer.	We describe a technique of arthrodesis of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint that we performed in 26 patients. Indications for surgery were instability (6 patients), chronic instability with secondary degenerative joint disease (6), osteoarthritis (6), inflammatory arthritis (7), and paralytic boutonniere (1). The technique uses the cup-and-cone method of decortication and positioning with the internal fixation using a 3.0-mm partially threaded cannulated screw and threaded washer (Synthes, Paoli, PA). Twenty-five of 26 joints had clinical and radiographic fusion. Average time to radiographic fusion for 24 patients (1 nonunion, 1 patient without x-rays until 4 months) was 10 weeks. Long-term follow-up evaluation was available for 20 patients and averaged 32 months (range, 21-44 months). All 20 had stable radiographic fusion with maintenance of the fusion angle. There were no infections and no need for hardware removal. Our results indicate that this technique for arthrodesis of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint is effective and reliable, is accomplished easily, and has a low incidence of complications.
Clinical applications of free soleus and peroneal perforator flaps.	Clinical applications of two free lateral leg perforator flaps are described: a free soleus perforator flap that is based on the musculocutaneous perforator vessels from one of the three main arteries in the proximal lateral lower leg, and a free peroneal perforator flap that is based on the septocutaneous or direct skin perforator vessels from the peroneal artery in the distal and middle thirds of the lateral lower leg. The authors applied free soleus perforator flaps to 18 patients and free peroneal perforator flaps to five patients with soft-tissue defects. The recipient site was the great toe in 14 patients, the hand and fingers in five patients, the leg in two patients, and the upper arm and the jaw in one patient each. The largest soleus perforator flap was 15 x 9 cm, and the largest peroneal perforator flap was 9 x 4 cm. Vascular pedicle lengths ranged from 6.5 to 10 cm in soleus perforator flaps and from 4 to 6 cm in peroneal perforator flaps. All flaps, except for the flap in one patient in the peroneal perforator flap series, survived completely. Advantages of these flaps are that there is no need to sacrifice any main artery in the lower leg, and there is minimal morbidity at the donor site. For patients with a small to medium soft-tissue defect, these free perforator flaps are useful.
Percutaneous leverage pinning in the treatment of Bennett's fracture.	Twelve patients (eleven males, one female; mean age 36 years) with Bennett's fracture having a gap or a step-off of more than 2 mm and in whom maintenance of the reduced position was difficult were treated by percutaneous leverage pinning. Bone union was obtained in all patients, and the wire was removed 37 days on average after the initial treatment. On the final follow-up examination, mild pain with motion was noted in two patients, and moderate to severe pain was noted in one patient. The reduction of the articular surface of the carpometacarpal joint of the thumb was confirmed by radiography; it was less than 1 mm in nine patients, less than 2 mm in two, and more than 2 mm in one. Because reduction and fixation are performed utilizing the leverage force of the wire inserted into the trapezium, percutaneous pinning has advantages, such as technical simplicity and the ability to apply tension to the fractured site.
Aesthetic improvement of the nail by the "illusion" technique in partial toe transfer for thumb reconstruction.	We describe a technique to improve the cosmetic appearance of the nail of the great toe after partial toe transfer for thumb reconstruction. By harvesting a bone fragment longitudinally from the distal phalanx, it is possible to increase the curvature of the nail and decrease its visual projection.
Reconstruction of the burned thumb.	The thumb accounts for 40 to 50% of hand function. Reconstruction of soft-tissue contractures include release and coverage with skin grafts or various local, regional, distant, or free flaps. Thumb length, so important for prehension and opposition, can be restored by phalangealization, pollicization, or toe-to-thumb transfer. Secondary techniques such as metacarpal distraction-lengthening or osteoplastic reconstruction are rarely indicated.
Reconstruction of traumatic absence of the thumb by microvascular free tissue transfer from the foot.	The development of microvascular surgical techniques during the last quarter century has advanced the ability of the hand surgeon to reconstruct the traumatically amputated thumb. The use of tissue from the foot has become the mainstay of therapy for this previously exceedingly difficult reconstructive problem. Although numerous minor variations of thumb reconstruction with use of the toes from the foot are available, three main techniques--the complete great toe transfer, wraparound flap, and second toe transfer--provide a predictable outcome. With multiple donor sites available, the surgeon can choose a procedure based on the needs of the patient as well as the particular preferences of the individual surgeon involved. The uniform goal in thumb reconstruction is to provide a cosmetically acceptable, stable, mobile, and sensible thumb that can be used in opposition and pinch maneuvers. Transfer of the great toe can provide excellent reconstruction in the selected patient. This transfer may be the procedure of choice in the child who requires continued epiphyseal growth of the transferred digit. The esthetic appeal of this transfer is somewhat dependent on individual patient variation and the appearance of the toe relative to that of the contralateral uninjured thumb. In patients with a narrow great toe, the transfer can provide an ideal esthetic result. Disadvantages of this transfer are that it is less esthetic when the toe is very bulbous in appearance and that the resultant defect and morbidity in the donor foot may be significant, possibly affecting activities of daily living. The wraparound flap provides the unique ability to customize the thumb reconstruction. The final esthetic outcome of the thumb can be altered in nail size, circumference, and length. Use of the wraparound flap permits a greater portion of the great toe to be left with the foot in an attempt to preserve more normal gait and function postoperatively. This type of transfer does not permit interphalangeal joint motion and may not permit metacarpophalangeal joint motion. Therefore, the requirements of a normal carpometacarpal joint with excellent thenar musculature so that the postoperative thumb can be put through a functional arc of motion are essential. Transferring a portion of the distal phalanx in the wraparound flap permits the intercalary iliac crest graft to have viable bone on both the distal and proximal aspects, thereby reducing postoperative osteopenia of the iliac crest graft itself.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Reconstruction of traumatic absence of the thumb by alternative microsurgical methods of reconstruction.	Because of the improved predictability, relative lack of donor morbidity, and excellent cosmetic appearance associated with the various forms of toe-to-hand transfers, these operations have become the procedure of choice in the reconstruction of a traumatically amputated thumb. However, a transfer from the foot may not always be available. If severe injuries, such as burns, have occurred to the feet, although a transfer may be technically feasible, it should be avoided. Occasionally, a patient will refuse to sacrifice a portion of his or her foot for either cosmetic or cultural reasons. If the presence of significant peripheral vascular disease is documented in the patient, the anatomy and suitability of the vessels supplying the toes becomes entirely unpredictable, and alternative methods for thumb reconstruction should be considered. In the acute trauma setting, first consideration as a source of donor tissue for thumb reconstruction should be given to any other digits, either ipsilateral or contralateral. Any digit amputated or severely injured at or proximal to the proximal interphalangeal joint may be considered as a possible donor digit. Careful examination of the neurovascular structures in this situation is essential to demonstrate that the zone of injury does not prohibit an appropriate repair at the recipient thumb bed. In the nonacute setting, occasionally, digits on the same or opposite hand are a valuable donor source for thumb reconstruction. Any digit found to be nonfunctional for reasons related to its location may be available for amputation and transfer to the thumb.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reconstruction of traumatic absence of the thumb in the adult by pollicization.	Amputation of the thumb is a severe handicap. In an emergency situation, thumb amputation must be treated by means of reimplantation when possible. If reimplantation cannot be performed or fails, several methods of thumb reconstruction can be used according to various factors. These include the number of surviving fingers and the level of the thumb amputation. Pollicization is the first choice for amputations proximal to the metacarpophalangeal joint when four and even three fingers are present. It is the easiest and safest operation that supplies the best results both from the motor and sensory points of view. Pollicization can be done even in an emergency situation in selected patients. The index finger is preferred because it can be pollicized without palmar scar or tendons, vessels, or nerves crossing over. If a damaged finger is present, it is preferred to the index finger to leave one more sound finger; a damaged finger can frequently be used, because the thumb is shorter than the other fingers, and although its mobility is very important at the trapeziometacarpal joint, it is less important at the metacarpophalangeal and interphalangeal joint levels. It is preferable to take as much second metacarpal bone as necessary to place the transferred second metacarpophalangeal joint at the position of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint so that the tendons of the index interosseous muscles can be sutured to the intrinsic muscles of the thumb. According to this concept, the distal phalanx of the transferred finger should be amputated. In this manner, the new thumb will have a normal size, only two phalanges, only one extrinsic flexor, and normal insertion of the muscles of the thumb.
Prosthetic replacements for the thumb.	Optimal management of thumb loss necessitates individual consideration of all options, including prosthetic fitting, in relation to the needs and circumstances of each patient. Increased availability and substantial technical improvements in hand prostheses are resulting in their more frequent utilization, alone or in conjunction with surgical reconstruction. It has been found, contrary to general recommendations, that digital prostheses do in fact follow the basic rule of upper limb prostheses: the more distal the amputation, the more benefit a prosthetic fitting will be as there is a corresponding increase in automatic control. The benefit of digital prosthetic fitting is most striking in activities such as playing the piano or typing. The success of prosthetic fitting depends greatly on the defining of realistic goals and on the prosthesis being developed to very high standards with efficient follow-up service arrangements.
Treatment of skin and soft-tissue loss of the thumb.	Many options exist to provide soft-tissue cover of the thumb. The choice of cover should be dictated by the defect itself: the location, size, and requirements for sensibility and durability. Within these boundaries, the choice of cover should be in accordance with the goals of any extremity reconstruction, permitting primary wound healing and early active use.
The range of motion of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb and its relationship to injury.	A wide variation in the range of flexion of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb in normal individuals is described. Patients with a poor range of flexion at this joint have a significantly higher incidence of indirect soft-tissue injury to the joint.
Surgical management of chronic ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint.	We studied 33 patients with "gamekeeper's thumb" who underwent surgical treatment comprising ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) advancement in 14, arthrodesis in 11, reconstruction in 6, and primary repair in 2. Results were satisfactory in 76% of the cases and unsatisfactory in 24%. From our study and review of the literature, we concluded that the best results are obtained after surgical treatment in the acute stage, because results are inconsistent and poorer after treatment of chronic lesions; reconstructive procedures based on the surgical pathology are recommended over UCL advancement and late primary repairs; and arthrodesis is a reliable salvage procedure.
Pinching of the single sesamoid bone of the thumb into the metacarpo-phalangeal joint without luxation]	Authors demonstrate the extremely rare case of articular pinching of the single and not well-developed sesam bone at the metacarpophalangeal joint on over extension without luxation and associated injuries. After reviewing the history and pathology it is described that this alteration can be treated with voluntary muscle function and without operation too.
Case report of non-healing wounds presenting to a DGH, South East London.	Mycobacterium marinum infections (fish tank granuloma) are infrequently encountered and when they do arise, they can pose a diagnostic challenge for clinicians. They can present as non-healing wounds along with several other presentations that may not be typical, as patients can have other comorbidities that cause immunosuppression and invasive symptoms of the disease. Treatment regimens vary in length, and are based on the patient's response to treatment couple with resolution of symptoms. Rifampicin and ethambutol are effective treatment options, together with use of macrolides. A thorough history from patients must be taken as to establish contact with aquatic animals.
Glove perforation during oral surgical procedures.	The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of glove perforation among undergraduates and residents performing maxillofacial surgery and identify procedures associated with the perforations.
Delayed rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon following intramedullary nailing of a radial fracture in a child.	This case reports another cause of delayed rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon in children following radial fracture management, due to attrition over a protruding nail end after elastic stable intramedullary nailing using the technique recommended to allow nail removal.
One-stage reconstruction of complicated thumb injury with combination of microsurgical transplantations.	Complicated thumb loss of the hand still remains a great challenge to hand and microsurgeons. In this article, we report our technique and outcomes in 10 cases using one-stage microsurgical procedures. In each case, three tissue transplants in combination with a sequential vascular anastomoses was performed, i.e. the second toe for the thumb, the extensor digitorum brevis for thenar opponent muscle, and the anterolateral thigh flap for the first web space, and adjacent soft tissue defects. All the transplants survived eventually. After an average of 6 years follow-up, the results were very inspiring. Combined tissue transfer can hasten patient recovery and improve functional outcomes. However, this method needs meticulous technique and great experience in microsurgery.
Evaluation of moving and static two point discriminations of volar forearm skin before and after transfer as a sensate radial forearm island flap in reconstruction of degloving injury of the thumb.	In degloving injury of the thumb the large skin defect needs cover with sensate, glabrous and pliable skin. Although coverage of this defect with a sensate free flap from the foot is the best choice, most commonly, cover is achieved using a non-sensate distant pedicle flap. Between 2001 and 2003, degloving injuries of the thumb in eight patients were reconstructed using a sensate radial forearm flap in the sensory territory of the lateral ante-brachial nerve of the forearm which was repaired to the digital nerve of the thumb (six cases) or to a branch of the sensory radial nerve (two cases). Follow-up period ranged from 17 to 41 months (mean: 29.9 months). Sensory evaluation was performed using the moving two point discrimination (M-2PD) and static two point discrimination (S-2PD) of the volar forearm skin. These altered significantly after transfer and their values approached those of the contra-lateral thumb but never reached normal sensation (p<0.01). Sensate radial forearm island flap is a reliable option to cover a large defect of the thumb such as degloving injury and the sensation produced is acceptable.
Hand injuries in adults.	The radiologist plays an important role in the evaluation of hand injuries. Although the detection of fractures is important, recognition and delineation of soft tissue damage is equally vital. If only soft tissue injuries exist, plain film findings are often nonspecific. Nevertheless, they can give helpful clues in evaluating ligaments and tendons. It is especially important for the radiologist to be knowledgeable of these soft tissue injuries because, in an emergency room setting, the radiologist may be the physician most familiar with the spectrum of injuries and possible complications.
Great toe-to-thumb microvascular transplantation after traumatic amputation.	The thumb is a vital part of the hand. After traumatic loss of the thumb, hand function diminishes considerably. The loss of the great toe, on the other hand, although unsightly, is not a considerable functional loss to the foot. Aesthetic and functional losses are restored to the hand following great toe transplantation to the thumb position, with very little functional loss to the foot. Anatomic and operative details are discussed, along with preoperative and postoperative management. Postoperative functional evaluations of the thumb and donor site are assessed. Forty years of experience with this composite tissue transplantation has proven that great toe-to-thumb microvascular transplantation is the gold standard for thumb reconstruction after traumatic amputation.
Sequential traumatic bilateral extensor pollicis brevis rupture: a case report.	We present an interesting and rare case of a sequential bilateral traumatic rupture of the extensor pollicis brevis tendons distal to the first extensor compartment in a patient with no underlying systemic condition or pathology around the wrist. Satisfactory thumb function was restored by bilateral transfer of the extensor indicis proprius.
Extensor indicis-transfer compared with palmaris longus transplantation in reconstruction of extensor pollicis longus tendon: a retrospective study.	Either an extensor indicis transposition (EIT) or an intercalated free tendon graft (FTG) can be used for secondary reconstruction of the extensor pollicis longus (EPL) tendon. We reviewed 1469 cases of extensor tendons repaired between 1992 and 2003 and compared the results. In only 55 patients was an isolated secondary reconstruction of the EPL done. Forty-five patients (82%) were available for clinical follow-up after a mean of 4.3 (range 2-11) years (28 (62%) who had EIT and 17 (38%) who had FTG). Thumb function was assessed postoperatively using Geldmacher's criteria, and the uninjured thumb served as control. The comparison showed no significant differences between the procedures for the single variables evaluated, or for the injured and other (uninjured) thumb in either group. For isolated secondary reconstruction of the EPL tendon, both the extensor indicis transposition and a free autologous tendon graft successfully restore thumb function. Therefore, both surgical techniques can be considered equal alternatives.
Locked thumb metacarpophalangeal joint caused by sesamoid entrapment.	We report an unusual case of locked thumb in a 24-year-old man, caused by entrapment of the radial sesamoid in the metacarpophalangeal joint. Tomography clearly revealed sesamoid entrapment in the joint. Surgical exploration and cadaver dissection demonstrated that avulsion of the proximal portion of the palmar plate and some dissociation of the sesamoid from the palmar plate with intraarticular displacement were necessary for the sesamoid to be trapped in the joint.
Antebrachial reverse island flap of the posterior interosseus artery pedicle for reconstruction of thumb defects]	Fasciocutaneous lobe on AIP ( a. interossea posterior) is characterized by thin skin, good texture and satisfactory pedicle lenght, which enables the repair of numerous hand defects. It can be either loose or reversed on the pedicle. We present here 2 neglected cases of thumb injury in which there was a need to compensate the full thickness of the skin. We believe that thumb defects can be repaired with both functionally and esthetically good effects using AIP lobe.
Salvage of amputated thumbs by temporary ectopic implantation.	To determine the indications and benefits of ectopic implantation in the salvage of amputated thumb.
Reconstruction of a degloved thumb.	We present two cases of degloving injuries of the thumb with amputation of the distal phalanx. The first one was treated with an osteocutaneous flap from the first toe, giving effective function to the thumb, and the second by a fasciocutaneous interosseous flap around the segment of the exposed thumb, with a satisfactory result.
Rotating shaft avulsion amputations of the thumb.	In a three-year period twenty-nine patients were treated for rotating shaft avulsion amputations of the thumb. Twenty-three thumbs were considered suitable for replantation. A staged approach, consisting of primary replantation and secondary nerve grafting and tendon reconstruction, was used because of concern that survival rates would be low. Survival was achieved in nineteen of twenty-three replantations. At mean follow-up of 20.5 months grip strength was 94.6% of the unaffected side and key pinch was 77.1%. Five patients achieved a two-point discrimination less than five millimeters. Success was better anticipated and now a full reconstruction is carried out in a single-stage procedure.
Irreducible dorsoulnar dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb.	A case of irreducible complete dorsoulnar dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb is presented. The pathologic anatomy included intersubstance tears of the ulnar collateral ligament and dorsal capsule and avulsions of the palmar plate and radial collateral ligament from their metacarpal attachments. The palmar plate blocked reduction, as did the radial collateral ligament that was caught on the margin of a tear in the adductor aponeurosis and on the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus. A review of the English-language literature indicates that this pathologic anatomy has not been described.
Laxity in the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb]	Instability in the thumb is one of the most frequent sport injuries following trauma with the finger in abducted position. Investigation of the stability includes pinch-hold test and conventional X-ray examination to visualize bone avulsion fractures. Occasionally radiologic stress test of stability or arthrography should be performed in cases of doubt. Surgical intervention must be performed in all cases with instability or uncertain clinical manifestation. Especially the distal rupture with folding of the ulnar collateral ligament, the Stener lesion, should be detected to avoid healing of the ligament to the first metacarpal bone. Any form of surgical treatment must be immobilized in a cast for 4 to 6 weeks. The tendency is to perform direct suture of capsules and ligaments for the first posttraumatic weeks, tenoplasty operations before 2-3 months and fusion in cases with persistent, chronic instability.
Fracture of the index metacarpal base with subluxation of the trapeziometacarpal joint. A case report.	A 40-year-old man fell on his outstretched arm and suffered a fracture of the index metacarpal base with subluxation of the thumb basal joint. The small fracture fragment at the base of the index metacarpal was attached to the base of the thumb metacarpal by a strong ligament, as noted at the time of surgery. This pattern of injury, a ligament-reversed Bennett's fracture, seems not to have been previously reported.
Hand injuries from leading horses.	An estimated 3.5 million people ride horses in the United Kingdom (Cannon, 1989). Injuries consequent to falls are common (Edixhoven et al., 1981), but those sustained while leading horses are less well recognized. In eight cases inappropriate grip of the reins or halter rope while leading a horse or pony resulted in an avulsion injury to a finger or thumb. It is suggested that people at risk be informed of such injuries.
Fresh ulnar capsule-ligament injuries of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb. Primary surgical management with extension wires with the aid of a modified Kirschner wire]	One of the most common injuries of the hand is the rupture of the ulnar collateral band of the metacarpophalangeal articulation of the thumb. As the fresh rupture is often overseen, a clarification by use of comparative X-rays in maximum abduction is indispensible. Fresh ulnar complete bandruptures or osseus, distal outbursts with wide diastasis of the bone fragment, should always be treated operatively within the first eight days, as to avoid an eventually necessary bandplastik later on. A modified Kirschner-wire, concavely excavated on its proximal end to facilitate the provision of the drillholes, alleviates the sufficiently known technique with extension wires; hence the operating time is reduced and so additionally the risk of infection is lowered. This hypothesis is verificated by 22 cases.
Saw injuries causing phalangeal neck fractures in adults.	The outcome of adult phalangeal neck fractures caused by saws has not been previously investigated. Over a 15-year period, a total of 36 cases of saw-related injuries resulting in phalangeal neck fractures of the middle phalanx of the finger or the proximal phalanx of the thumb were treated. All injuries were industrial and covered by insurance. They were all adult males with type II fractures. The fracture were managed by K-wire fixation, immobilizing the distal joint only. The proximal joints were mobilized immediately after surgery and the K-wire was removed after 5 weeks. The following 2 patterns of saw injuries were observed: dorsal impact injuries resulting in a phalangeal neck fracture and concurrent extensor tendon injury (group I, n = 20 patients), and dorsolateral impact injuries resulting in concurrent extensor (± partial flexor) tendon and nerve injury (group II, n = 16 patients). The outcome with respect to range of motion and return to work was significantly better in the former group. Major complications such as nonunion, malunion, avascular necrosis of the phalangeal head, osteomyelitis, or contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints were not observed. Two patients (1 in each group) had superficial pin-site infection. It was concluded that adult phalangeal neck fractures caused by saws is a separate entity from the previously reported series of closed phalangeal neck fractures in adults.
7-year follow-up after open reduction and internal screw fixation in Bennett fractures.	Bennett fractures are unstable, and, with inadequate treatment, lead to osteoarthritis, weakness and loss of function of the first carpometacarpal joint. This study focuses on long-term functional and radiological outcomes after open reduction and internal fixation.
Linear rays of hypopigmentation following intra-articular corticosteroid injection for post-traumatic degenerative joint disease.	Intra-articular and intralesional glucocorticoid injections are commonly used by dermatologists, orthopedic surgeons, and rheumatologists because they offer many advantages over oral or parenteral dosage forms. Triamcinalone acetonide is a frequently utilized glucocorticosteroid for intra-articular injections, yet there are a limited number of case reports describing cutaneous hypopigmentation as an adverse effect. Here we present a unique case of hypopigmentation with a linear ray distribution demonstrating lymphatic collection and spread of the triamcinalone acetonide.
Accuracy of fluoroscopy in the treatment of intra-articular thumb metacarpal fractures.	The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of fluoroscopic imaging during closed reduction and percutaneous fixation of intra-articular thumb metacarpal fractures. Closed reduction and percutaneous fixation was assessed in eight simulated intra-articular thumb metacarpal fractures, using fluoroscopy and digital radiographs. Displacement and fracture step-off were measured during fluoroscopy, on plain radiographs, and by direct visualization after careful dissection. Displacement on fluoroscopy was 0.8 (SD 1.0) mm and 1.2 (SD 1.4) with radiographic imaging. Direct visualization showed displacement of 0.9 (SD 1.2) mm. Intra-articular step-off on fluoroscopy was 0.8 (SD 1.0) mm and 0.8 (SD 0.8) with radiographic imaging. Direct visualization showed an intra-articular step-off of 0.8 (SD 1.2) mm. Statistical analysis showed excellent compatibility between fluoroscopy and direct visualization. Fluoroscopic visualization during surgery provides an adequate assessment of articular step-off and displacement in comparison with radiographs and direct visualization. 
Opponensplasty provides predictable opposable tripod pinch in toe transfer for proximal thumb ray defect reconstruction.	Thumb amputations proximal to the metacarpophalangeal joint inevitably result in destruction of the thenar musculature and secondary loss of opposition. Opposable tripod pinch is one of the essential goals in toe-to-thumb reconstruction. Pronation osteosynthesis is the traditional method of restoring opposition, but a simultaneous opponensplasty may turn this static process into a dynamic one.
Rare double fracture-dislocation of the thumb: a case report and review of the literature.	Simultaneous fracture/dislocation of the thumb carpometacarpal (CMC) joint and dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint is considered as a rare injury pattern. We report an unusual case of dorsal dislocation of MCP joint of the thumb associated with extraarticular fracture of the base of the first metacarpal in a 28-year-old man. The dislocation of MCP joint had been missed during initial presentation at a peripheral centre. The patient made an uneventful recovery following open reduction and fixation with 1.25 mm Kirschner wire of the MCP joint along with repair of the ulnar collateral ligament. This injury pattern has not been previously reported to the best of our knowledge in the English-language based medical literature. 
Sesamoidectomy and volar plate repair using suture anchor for hyperextension injury of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb.	A retrospective study for the combination of suture anchor and selective sesamoidectomy for treating volar instability of the metacarpophalangeal joint (MCPJ) of the thumb. Eleven patients with hyperextension of the MCPJ of the thumb underwent volar plate repair using a volar or voloradial approach. All the patients were reviewed radiologically and clinically using both objective and subjective criteria. The patients presented with sesamoid fractures (n = 2), sesamoid subluxation (n = 1), isolated volar plate laxity (n = 4), isolated sesamoid fracture (n = 4), and metacarpal condyle fracture (n = 2). The inner intersesamoid distance was 4.6 mm and the outer intersesamoid distance was 14.2 mm. The Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand and Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire scores showed improvement. Volar plate repair using a suture anchor and selective sesamoidectomy is effective with regard to pain relief and stabilisation of volar instability of the thumb. 
Table saw injuries: epidemiology and a proposal for preventive measures.	Table saws are ubiquitous devices in professional, home, and school woodshops that have the potential to cause severe injuries. Many of these injuries results in finger and thumb tendon, nerve, and vascular damage or amputation. Long-term outcomes of these injuries can include functional and sensory deficits. Table saw manufacturers are required to equip saws with blade guards to prevent blade contact; nevertheless, treatment of table saw injuries is a common occurrence in U.S. emergency departments.
An urban Northeastern United States alligator bite.	Individuals who live and work in the Southeastern coastal range of the 3 US crocodilian carnivores, American alligators, American crocodiles, and caiman, understand the risks of reptile-human encounters. Individuals who live in other parts of the country maybe exposed through contact with exotic pets at private homes, small menageries, or petting zoos or from escaped or abandoned animals. During these encounters, individuals may be severely injured.Emergency medical services, law enforcement, and animal welfare workers in nonhabitat areas are usually not trained in the handling and safe removal of injured individuals from the scene when the reptile is present. The emergency management of large crocodilian injuries is similar to that of other major trauma; however, providers also must take into consideration the significant crush component potentially inflicted by the tremendous bite power and shaking inflicting during attacks by these large reptiles, appropriate antibiotic coverage for less common organisms that inhabit their mouths, and management of possible psychological distress, including posttraumatic stress disorder produced by such an unusual attack. Emergency physicians should support the development of a readily available national database of scientifically collect information on attacks to inform appropriate care and support efforts to explore responsible measures that the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and other appropriate local, state, and federal agencies can take to ensure ethical and biologically sustainable management of our large reptiles, which also helps to ensure the safety of the public.
Spontaneous rupture of the extensor pollicis longus]	A review of the literature is followed by the analysis of a series of forty-four patients who were treated by extensor indicis transposition. Twenty-five patients could be reached for a clinical follow-up examination, nine further patients were interviewed by telephone; of the remaining ten patients, seven could not be reached and three had died. Excluded from the series were patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Results were evaluated according to the scheme suggested by Geldmacher and coworkers. According to their evaluation scheme, we can report fourteen excellent, eight good, three satisfactory, and no bad results. Subjectively, the results were even better, with twenty-eight patients reporting excellent, four good, and two satisfactory results, including those nine patients contacted by telephone only. Strength of extension of the index finger was not diminished after the extensor indicis transposition when all fingers were extended simultaneously. However, there was a deficit of extension in a few cases when the remaining fingers were clenched to a fist. This indicates that an alternative method should probably be recommended in patients with professions where individual extension of the index finger is of paramount importance. It is also suggested that additional functional tests, convertible into score points, might render the evaluation more realistic than measurements only. Inclusion of these additional functional tests might also give an explanation for the discrepancy between patients' subjective results and those as a result of measurement only.
The first dorsal metacarpal artery neurovascular island flap.	A first dorsal metacarpal artery island flap from the index finger was used in 20 cases for reconstruction of defects in the hand. In six cases it was used as a neurovascular flap for sensory resurfacing of the thumb and in five cases for release of a contracted first web. One flap underwent necrosis and there was a complication in one donor site.
The lateral arm free flap in releasing severe contracture of the first web space.	To permanently release severe contracture of the first web space, suitable additional skin must be provided. Local skin is often insufficient and is unable to fill the depths of the space. Pedicle flaps are bulky, require a second operation for division, and frequently demand further procedures for revision. A precisely tailored lateral arm free flap allows unparalleled correction to be achieved with one surgical intervention. The operation can be performed under regional anaesthesia with morbidity restricted to one extremity.
Simultaneous dislocations of the interphalangeal and carpometacarpal joints of the thumb: a case report.	A case of simultaneous dislocations of the interphalangeal and carpometacarpal joints of the thumb after a fall is described. We believe this is a unique situation not reported before in the literature. The results of operative intervention of the open IP joint and closed CMC joint dislocations resulted in a stable pain-free thumb with a good range of motion.
Thumb reconstruction following major loss: a review of treatment alternatives.	Over the past 20 years the available methods for thumb reconstruction following major loss have changed dramatically, primarily through the continued development of microsurgical techniques. Replantation effort is generally indicated when the injury is favorable and the patient can safely undergo emergency and possibly prolonged surgery. Since secondary reconstructions vary markedly with respect to anticipated function and appearance, donor site requirements, and other important factors, the reconstruction method should be individualized according to the patient's age and general health, functional demands, and cosmetic expectations.
Hand function after replantation or revascularization of upper extremity injuries. A follow-up study of 21 cases operated on 1979-1985 in Göteborg.	Twenty-one patients with revascularized/replanted amputated parts of the upper limb were studied for an evaluation of hand function. Two patients had been injured at the lower arm to wrist level, four between the wrist and MCP joint, three distal to the MCP joints in thumbs and/or fingers, and twelve in the thumb only. Hand function was measured as grip and pinch strength, range of movement (ROM), sensibility (two point discrimination), and Sollerman test score. Cold sensitivity as related to circulatory changes in the replanted limb was evaluated in six patients using the critical opening test (COP). Twelve of 17 initiated replantations (71%), and 11 of 12 revascularizations (92%), were successful. Hand function was restricted in patients with amputations at the lower arm to wrist level, fair in replanted midhands, good, but with wide variations after replantations at the MCP or distal II-V fingers, and best of all in replanted thumbs. Sensibility was poor in a majority of the patients. Three out of six of the patients who were COP-tested had significantly reduced blood pressure in the replanted part. The test results (grip, ROM, Sollerman score) in three patients with amputated thumbs were not found to differ greatly from those with replanted thumbs. These results raise the question of whether the Sollerman test underestimates the importance of the thumb or whether the thumb is overestimated in hand function.
A palmar-hinged flap for reconstruction of traumatic thumb defects.	Destructive terminal palmar wounds of the thumb should be reconstructed if possible with like tissue; palmar glabrous skin served by the thumb's own median nerve branches. Such tissue is usually available, and no free flap or adjacent flap can serve as well. Seventeen thumbs of seventeen patients have been repaired with this method. The average follow-up was over 3 years. Sixteen of the 17 thumbs regained excellent sensibility and excellent pinch power based on current standard methods of evaluation; all patients returned to the same or similar occupations they had performed before the injury.
Reconstruction of a digitless hand.	A digitless left hand was reconstructed by transplanting a big toe skin-nail flap and the adjacent second and third toes taken from the left foot and the second and third toes taken from the right foot. Five months follow-up showed satisfactory functional recovery and cosmetic results. The digits have regained normal sensibility and possess independent motor ability.
Second toe transfer for thumb reconstruction in multiple digit amputations including thumb and basal joint.	Amputation of the thumb, including the basal joint, is a disabling injury that leaves limited reconstructive options. Three cases of multiple digit amputation including the thumb and basal joint are presented in which a second toe transfer was used to reconstruct the thumb. All patients have functional pinch with an average pinch strength of 27% of the opposite uninjured extremity. The average grip strength for two patients is 44% of the opposite hand. Average motion of the transfer at the MP, PIP, and DIP is 25 degrees, 37 degrees, and 9 degrees, respectively. Adduction and abduction are obtained, the degree depending on the site of proximal bony fixation. No patient has morbidity at the donor site and all are happy with their reconstruction. In selected cases we feel second toe transfer is an excellent choice to reconstruct the thumb amputated at a proximal level.
Dual innervated index to thumb cross finger or island flap reconstruction.	Partial volar amputations of the entire thumb pulp require soft tissue coverage that provides not only padding and protection for exposed bone and tendons, but also restoration of discriminative sensation. A modification of the radial sensory innervated cross finger flap from index to thumb is described, which includes separate reinnervation of the flap by repair of the dorsal sensory branch of the index radial digital nerve to the ulnar digital nerve of thumb. The anatomical basis for this flap is discussed and two example cases presented. Sensory reinnervation is rapid and does not require cortical reorientation.
A holder for plain x-ray visualization of ulnar, volar and radial injuries of the capsule and ligaments of the basal thumb joint. A hyperextensometer for the determination of the ligamentous laxity of the index finger basal joint]	We have constructed a device for standardized radiodiagnostics of ulnar, volar, and radial capsulo-ligamentous lesions of the basal thumb joint. Used as hyperextensometer at the basal joint of the index finger, the device is of equal value in the diagnosis of ligamentous laxity.
Bilateral rupture of extensor pollicis longus. A case report.	Bilateral rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon is a rare entity. Most case studies in the literature have been reported in patients with an underlying systemic condition such as rheumatoid arthritis or following an episode of trauma. An interesting and unusual case is presented and theories concerning etiology, various operative techniques, and recent cases in the literature are discussed.
Gentamicin PMMA minichains in infections of the hand]	Hitherto a prolonged treatment and immobilization was necessary in case of bone and soft tissue infections of the hand. The result was frequently a poor function of the hand due to ankylosis. The infection period can be shortened by an early, carefully performed sequestrotomy with additional temporary implantation of gentamicin-PMMA minichains. The evaluation of 200 cases shows the good results of this therapy method.
Percutaneous management of osseous avulsions of extensor tendons and lateral ligaments of the fingers with the hooked wire]	A new method of percutaneous treatment of some fractures of the fingers is being described. With the use of a magnification table, fitted onto the X-ray intensifier, evulsion fractures of extensor tendons or collateral ligaments can be reduced and fixed by means of a K-wire. After insertion, the end of the wire is being bent in the shape of a hook ("wire hook"), into which a pull-out wire is inserted. By anchoring the wire-hook at the opposite side of the finger under tension, the fragment is held in position by the hook. After four weeks the wire-hook is cut below its anchorage and can easily be removed by the pull-out wire. Technique and results of 85 patients are being presented.
Ligamentous avulsion of the ulnar collateral ligament of the thumb of a child.	Ulnar collateral ligament ruptures of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb in children are usually associated with epiphyseal fractures of the proximal phalanx and, less frequently, cartilaginous fragments from the metacarpal. Radiographs are often normal. We describe an isolated ligamentous avulsion of the ulnar collateral ligament from the thumb metacarpal, without a bony or cartilaginous fragment, in a skeletally immature 12-year-old boy.
Repair of fingertip lacerations and amputations.	Even minor losses of fingertip skin or subcutaneous tissue can be disabling. The location, size and orientation of the defect must be meticulously assessed. Particular attention to technique is required in providing digital block anesthesia, in using Z-plasty to redirect wounds which cross flexion creases and in providing adequate coverage of fingertip amputations. A correct repair will allow rapid recovery and an early return to activities.
Mechanical bull syndrome.	Although the mechanical bull was originally designed to train cowboys for the rodeo, nearly 1,000 of these machines are in use in night clubs and amusement parks throughout the United States. We have treated 84 mechanical-bull-related injuries in our institution, the most common to the groin and the lower extremity (32%). A common fracture, which we have labeled the bullrider's thumb, involved the proximal phalanx of the thumb and occurred as the patient's body forced his thumb against the horn of the machine. We describe the mechanical bull, its mechanism of action, and the injuries possible while riding or falling from the bull.
Toe to hand transfer.	Nine patients received a toe-to-finger transfer after accidental amputation and one after a congenital defect. One led to secondary amputation due to arterial thrombosis. Seven of the 9 patients would have the operation again if needed. Five transplants were great toe-to-thumb transfers which the authors feel superior to second toe to thumb transplantations. The method seems to be useful in reconstructive hand surgery.
Transposition of pedicled skin flaps in the hand.	A series of 28 neurovascular island flaps are presented together with a series of three radial innervated pedicled flaps. The former method gave superior results compared to the latter. The mean follow-up period was 4.3 years. All the flaps survived and 21 of the neurovascular flaps were classified good to excellent, 4 cases gave fair results and in three cases the result was classified poor. Only one of the neural pedicled radial innervated flaps could be classified as fair whereas both of the others gave poor results. The neurovascular island flap method is regarded a valuable alternative to a tree vascularized composite tissue graft.
Experiences with gentamicin-PMMA mini-chains in hand infections]	Soft tissue and bone infections often require lengthy treatment. The result in most cases will be poor function. The treatment can be shortened by surgical revision and highly effective local antibiotic therapy with Gentamycin-PMMA-minichains.
Replantation and revascularisation surgery in children.	Salvage of any amputated, or devascularised, digit or extremity in a child should be seriously considered and carefully planned. Bone shortening should be minimised. Replanted and revascularised digits and extremities do grow and often demonstrate minimal retardation when well revascularised and minimally traumatised. Even in more extensive injuries progressive growth is observed. Replanting of single digits is worth while in children. Vein grafting should be seriously considered when replanting any avulsed digit. The return of excellent sensation and good function in amputated parts in children makes these procedures rewarding and beneficial.
Post-traumatic instability of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb.	Post-traumatic instability of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb has been treated surgically in sixty-six patients. The results in eighty per cent were excellent or good.
Methods and results of replantation following traumatic amputation of the thumb in sixty-four patients.	Immediate survival and functional results were studied in 64 thumb replantations performed during a 3 year period. The failure rate, 27% overall, was higher in patients over 50 years of age (50%) and following avulsions with or without crushing injuries (58%). Long vein grafts from the radial artery proximally to the thumb arteries distally were employed in 15 patients to bypass the traumatized area in the first web space. A higher survival rate (90%) was associated with the use of vein grafts to restore venous return. Half of the patients followed 6 months or longer had good discriminatory sensibility (less than 10 mm). Sensory return and cold intolerance were worse in older patients and were not related to level of injury, mechanism of amputation, total ischemia time, or number of arteries or veins repaired. Loss of motion of the replanted thumb was a frequent cause for inadequate return of function. All thumbs should be considered for replantation, but the results will be poorer in older patients. If possible, motion of the interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints should be preserved.
Microsurgical free partial toe transfer in hand reconstruction: a report of 12 cases.	The foot is an invaluable bank of spare parts available for reconstructing the mutilated hand. The dorsalis pedis flap, the extensor digitorum brevis muscle, and the first and second toes can now be used as free transfers. We believe that partial toe transfers, including either sensitive cutaneous flaps or composite tissue, are also extremely useful in properly selected patients.
Microvascular segmental thumb reconstruction: a case report.	The great toe provides an ideal source of tissue for both functional and aesthetic reconstruction of segmental defects in the thumb and can be used without mutilation of the foot. A successful case is presented of a I-stage primary reconstruction of a segmental defect of the thumb using a composite free flap transfer from the great toe containing pulp, tissue, nail and bone, with neurovascular anastomosis. The donor defect on the great toe was repaired at the same time.
Primary toe-to-thumb transfer in the acutely avulsed thumb.	The case is presented of a primary toe-to-thumb transfer by microvascular anastomosis for reconstruction of an acute degloving amputation of the thumb. This approach is not recommended as the standard practice for this type injury, however, there were certain advantages in this patient: (1) one stage procedure, (2) restoration of length, sensibility, and cover, (3) cosmetic improvement, and (4) minimal length of hospitalization.
One rectus abdominis muscle for two separated soft-tissue reconstructions.	One rectus abdominis muscle flap, when based on superior and inferior pedicles, can be transferred simultaneously as two free-muscle flaps in two different configurations during the same operation. The two free flaps based on either pedicle are safe, reliable, and extremely well vascularized. Excellent functional and cosmetic results have been achieved in five patients with minimal donor-site morbidity. It has been our flap of choice for reconstructing the moderate- to large-sized defects at two separate sites of the upper and lower extremities.
Improvisation in wrap-around toe-to-thumb transfer.	Wrap-around partial great toe transfer, a one time dream, is now a well established and universally accepted method of thumb reconstruction. In this technique, part of the soft tissue of the great toe are wrapped around and shaped to the size of the graft from iliac bone in such a manner that a thumb of normal dimensions and shape is produced. Instead of the iliac bone graft, we found great merit in using the second metacarpal from the traumatised hand to be reconstructed. In this paper its use and merits are elaborated.
Long term evaluation of sensation sequelae of bipedicled digital advancement island flaps. Comparison of clinical and electrophysiological results. Apropos of 13 cases]	Thirteen homodigital bipedicle island flaps for digital pulp amputation were reviewed to allow a better evaluation of sensory sequelae. A clinical and electrophysiological study of the sensory score of the pulp were compared to the contralateral normal digit and expressed in relative values. Sensory sequelae, even minor, are constant. The summated scores of dynamic and static 2 point discrimination test, appeared correlated to the electrophysiological amplitude modulations. This result seems particularly interesting as it adds another test for the objective evaluation of sensitivity.
Volar dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb: report of two cases.	Two cases of volar metacarpophalangeal joint dislocation are reported. A review of the literature indicates that open reduction is the most common treatment for this type of injury. The two cases presented here, however, suggest that conservative treatment using closed reduction can be satisfactory. Dorsal luxation of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb is an uncommon injury, but volar dislocation is extremely rare. When Moneim in 1982 described the first case in the English-literature, only eleven cases has been reported. The purpose of this paper is to present two additional cases of volar metacarpophalangeal joint dislocation of the thumb treated successfully by closed reduction.
Fractures of the sesamoid bone of the thumb.	Fracture of thumb sesamoids is a rare injury. We are reporting four cases. In two cases, the fracture involved the ulnar sesamoid and in two others, the radial sesamoid. The right thumb was affected in two patients and the left thumb in the other two. In one patient, arthrography of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb demonstrated contrast leakage from the volar aspect of the joint and confirmed volar plate rupture. All patients were treated conservatively with immobilization. Normal hand function was restored in all four patients. Sesamoid fractures may accompany severe injuries of the fibrous plate. Radiologists and orthopaedists should be aware of the possibility of this fracture in injuries of the thumb. Early recognition of the fracture leads to appropriate treatment and avoids possible instability of the metacarpophalangeal joint.
Reconstruction of isolated traumatic amputation of the thumb. Role of annular pollicization]	Fifteen pollicisations of undamaged ring fingers were carried out after isolated thumb amputations, occurring most of the time above the MP in manual workers. All these patients were re-examined with a minimum two years' follow-up and an average 5 years'. There was no complication, and all the patients operated on resumed an active work at the fifth postoperative month on average. Early rehabilitation was favoured by bone fixation of the first metacarpal with an intramedullary peg, and by careful cinematisation (reinsertion of all extensors, cinematisation by the flexor pollicis longus). The results showed that this procedure was the surgery of choice for isolated amputations of the thumb occurring in manual workers at the level of or above the MP. Indeed, if it is compared with transfers of the 2nd toe, pollicisation is characterized by its reliability, an early return to work, a greater range of active motion (60 degrees instead of 30 degrees), pulp-pinch and key-pinch figures at 54 per cent, a hand-grasp (70 per cent) identical or better, a touch sensibility two or three times as good (Weber at 5 mm), a better cold tolerance (no professional disability), and by the fact that there is no discomfort at the level where the transplanted digit was removed.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatised thumb. Covering losses of cutaneous substance of the thumb]	The authors proposed their preferential indications to repair cutaneous loss of the thumb. The choice of the flap depend on localisation: to repair a frontal amputation, a triangular volar flap (Atazoy) performed, to repair a tangential distal amputation, a neurovascular island flap (O'Brien-Moberg) was used. To repair a tangential palmar amputation, a flap with advancement and rotation (Hueston) was performed--Free toe to finger tip neurovascular flap was necessary to restore sensation after complete avulsion of pulp. The island kite flap transfer from the dorsum of the index to the thumb (Foucher) was used to repair loss of dorsal and palmar side of the first phalanx. For tangential dorsal amputation, cross finger and free toe to thumb "custom-made" transfer were possible. The authors explained why they preferred these flaps.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatised thumb. Reconstruction of the amputated thumb by progressive lengthening of the 1st metacarpal using mini-fixator. Apropos of 2 clinical cases]	The authors report two cases of reconstruction of a mutilated thumb by progressive elongation of the first metacarpal without the need for bone grafts, using a minifixation elongation device, which is very easy to use. It allows distraction which can be performed by the patient himself and adjustment to the desired length, up to 40 mm.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb. Reconstruction of the thumb by osteocutaneous flaps of the forearm]	The authors present different techniques of thumb reconstruction using osteocutaneous retrograde island forearm flaps. They describe an original thumb reconstruction technique by using the anterior interosseous osteocutaneous retrograde island flap and present two clinical cases. The advantages and disadvantages as well as the indications of this kind of thumb reconstruction procedure are discussed.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb. Toe as a donor site for reconstruction of the thumb]	One method of reconstruction of the thumb consists of microsurgical transfer of a toe. After a brief anatomical and technical review, the authors describe the various possibilities of thumb reconstruction using toe transfer: transfer of the 2nd toe, transfer of the great toe, partial toe transfers. Traumatic amputations must be distinguished from congenital amputations in terms of the indications for toe transfers. The indication for toe transfer in a case of traumatic amputation may be based on the level of amputation.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb. Reconstruction of the thumb in a child by double transfer. Apropos of a clinical case]	The authors present a case of atypical thumb reconstruction in children, using a combined vascularized joint transfer and a free partial big toe transfer. They describe a burned hand with first metacarpal amputation and transproximal phalanx amputation of the index. According to the "bank finger" principle the metacarpophalangeal joint was transferred on the top of the first metacarpal, vascularized by the two collateral pedicles. The second metacarpal shaft was removed to create the first web and kept for bone grafting. A "wrap-around" flap (Morrison) with an intercalated bone graft completed this reconstruction. A first web orthesis was used to prevent retraction. Result at six months was functionally and cosmetically good, but the normal growth of the reconstructed thumb must be demonstrated by the future. Finally, the other procedures are considered.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb. The thumb in hand mutilations. Indications for reconstructive surgery]	The indications for reconstruction of the thumb in traumatic mutilations of the hand are presented in relation to the various conventional and microsurgical techniques. Several clinical situations are distinguished according to the severity of the hand mutilation and the number of severed fingers. Paucidigital amputations (one or two fingers including the thumb) should be treated by pollicisation or other techniques (Matev, osteoplastic reconstruction, second toe or "custom-made" transfers) depending on whether or not the other fingers need to be preserved. Pluridigital amputations (the thumb and two or three long fingers) require transfer of the 2nd toe or "custom-made" transfers avoiding a further reduction of the digital capital of the hand. Amputations of the five fingers create oblique, transverse or convex sections which, when they are proximal, require elongation of one, two or three digits depending on whether surgery is designed to restore a bipod or tripod pinch grip. Lastly, complex mutilations require a combination of digital reconstruction and palmo-commissural skin repair by neurovascular free flaps from the foot. Nonsurgical management should also be discussed in every case.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb. Esthetics and post-traumatic reconstruction of the thumb]	The authors deal with the aesthetic problems of traumatic thumb reconstructions from two complementary points of view: surgical and psychoanalytical. From the surgical point of view, they discuss the aesthetic factors of repair ("aesthetics equals function") in the hand and in the donor site. The features of a "good" reconstructed thumb are recalled, together with the ways of achieving this result, taking into account several imperatives related to the various techniques: the residual scar, the proportions of the thumb (length and diameter) and the appearance of the nail. The morphological sequelae at the principal donor sites (hand, forearm and foot) are also evaluated. Although sacrifice of the great toe is not longer justified, that of the second toe should be weighted up against the limited sequelae of "custom-made" great toe flaps. In the second, psychoanalytical approach to the aesthetic problem, the deep motivations underlying the patient's request are examined. In order to satisfy the patient's demand, it is essential to clearly define the indications and contraindications related to the patient's psychological make-up, the importance of the aesthetic role of his or her hand and the psychological impact of both the initial trauma and the secondary sequelae of surgery, bearing in mind that psychological factors change with time, just as the body image also varies continuously. Finally, the dual, surgical and psychoanalytical approach should allow the surgeon to satisfy the hand injury patient's functional and aesthetic demands under the best possible conditions.
Forum: reconstruction of the traumatic thumb in practice...the surgeon passes!]	The aim of thumb reconstruction is to obtain, within a reasonable time, a thumb with an aesthetic appearance and function as close as possible to those of a normal thumb, leaving a minimum of sequelae at the donor site. The author reviews the various modalities of reconstruction, according to the severity of mutilation of the thumb. In pulp amputations, partial lesions are repaired by a homodigital island pulp flap (subcutaneous or unilateral or bilateral neurovascular pedicle advancement flap); total pulp defects should be treated by toe pulp transfer rather than the neurovascular pedicle conventional heterodigital pulp flap (with nerve anastomosis): hemipulp of the great toe or pulp of the 2nd toe. Several thumb reconstruction procedures can be proposed in digital amputations and the surgeon must be aware of their precise indications: up-to-date osteoplastic reconstruction by osteocutaneous forearm retrograde flaps (radial flap or anterior interosseous flap), progressive elongation of the 1st metacarpal, pollicisation (of the ring finger), microsurgical transfer of a toe (not the great toe because of the sequelae to the foot, but the 2nd toe), exceptionally microsurgical transfer of a (damaged) finger from the other hand. Lastly, with minimal sequelae to the foot, "custom-made" reconstructions allow repair of partial amputations (partial great toe transfers) and complete amputations of the thumb (great toe "wrap-around" flap, "twisted two toes" flap of great toe and 2nd toe) or even complex and multidigital mutilations of the hand (dorso-commissuro-bipulpar foot flap).
Acute dislocation of the carpometacarpal joint of the thumb: an anatomic and cadaver study.	An anatomic study was undertaken to provide an understanding of the ligamentous disruption that occurs during acute dislocation of the thumb carpometacarpal joint. Thirty-eight cadaver thumbs were dissected free of soft tissue, with the ligaments preserved. The dorsoradial, posterior oblique, anterior oblique, and intermetacarpal ligaments were identified in all specimens. A dorsal dislocating force was applied to the base of the thumb metacarpal to recreate the mechanism of clinical dislocation. Serial sectioning of the ligaments was performed with the metacarpal in neutral, flexion, and extension. The primary restraint to dorsal dislocation was found to be the dorsoradial ligament, with the anterior oblique ligament allowing dislocation by subperiosteal stripping from the base of the first metacarpal. After reduction, the joint was most stable in pronation and extension, which tightened the anterior oblique ligament. We conclude that the dorsoradial ligament is the primary restraining force with respect to acute dorsal dislocation of the thumb carpometacarpal joint.
Island skin flap with neurovascular pedicle from the dorsum of the index finger for reconstruction of the thumb.	This paper describes the successful reconstruction of badly injured thumbs in nineteen patients with transposition of a neurovascular pedicle island flap from the dorsum of the index finger. The flap has a consistent arterial supply (the first metacarpal artery), good sized veins, and terminal branches of the superficial radial nerve. Five patients had either palmar, dorsal, or circumferential loss of soft tissue from the thumb. Twelve patients had acute traumatic amputations requiring distal thumb reconstruction, and two patients had distal amputations with late reconstruction. In both immediate and late reconstruction, we maintained length and skin coverage with good circulation and sensation. This one-stage operation requires less postoperative care than many other procedures currently in use and may be employed in a wider variety of cases.
Circulatory crisis caused by cigarette smoking in tissue transfer. Clinical and experimental studies.	Cigarette smoking-induced circulatory crisis occurred in two patients receiving toe transfer and one patient having musculocutaneous flap. After anticoagulation and antispasm treatment, one survived and two failed. Experimental studies demonstrated that cigarette smoking is harmful to the healing of endothelia at the anastomotic site of vessels. Five days after operation, the complete recovery rate of the endothelium over sutures of anastomotic sites was 16%-19% in smoking groups, but 75% in the control group. The mechanism and characteristics of circulatory crisis caused by cigarette smoking are discussed.
Skier's thumb--the significance of bony injuries.	In a retrospective study to determine the anatomic nature of injuries in thumbs that were treated surgically for either fracture or instability, we reviewed 63 consecutive patients with acute skier's thumb injury. Of the 63 thumbs, 25 (40%) had a fracture. Surgical exploration showed 2 fracture types: a fragment that was attached to the ulnar collateral ligament, and a fragment that was not attached to the ulnar collateral ligament. The 1st type, corresponding to true avulsion fracture of the ulnar collaternal ligament, was found in 8 cases; the same fracture type was seen in another 7 cases, with an isolated fragment that was not attached to the ligament. Such an isolated fragment was observed in 10 other cases in which the ulnar collateral ligament was completely disrupted. This type of bony fragmentation cannot be differentiated from a bony avulsion of the ulnar collateral ligament on routine films. Therefore, stress testing the injured thumb is mandatory even when bony avulsion fracture with minimal displacement is suspected from a radiograph, as indeed the fracture may not be a bony avulsion but may be a fragmentation of the ulnar volar aspect of the proximal phalanx associated with a complete disruption of the ulnar collateral ligament.
Volar dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb.	A rare case of volar dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb is reported. Open reduction was necessary to correct the deformity.
Static fixation of finger fractures.	Static fixation of the fingers by external fixators means external stabilization of a fractured digit or phalanx or preservation of length of the affected segments until bone grafting and bone healing are achieved. During the treatment course, distraction or compression are not applied to the callus. The static fixation does not mean the lack of dynamic influences, it depends on the mechanical characteristics of the device applied. Our mini external stabilizer compared with the former rigid fixators can be considered a semiflexible, and therefore semidynamic, device owing to its metallurgic characteristics, which are proved by the secondary bone healing achieved in our clinical cases.
Traumatic finger amputations in Bulawayo.	A prospective study of 20 patients with traumatic amputations of the fingers and a thumb was carried out during a six week period at Mpilo Central Hospital, Bulawayo. Most of the adult injuries (17 patients) resulted from industrial accidents (76.5 pc) while two out the three children sustained their injury from domestic accidents. Inadequate safety precaution, ignorance and human error contributed significantly to the injuries. Safety education and preventive measures both at home and in industry should be inoculated into the daily life of individuals.
Irreducible MP joint dislocation due to entrapment of FPL.	A case of irreducible dorsal dislocation of the first MP joint is presented. The tendon of FPL was trapped dorsal to the metacarpal head, and open reduction was necessary.
The range of motion of the MP joint of the thumb following operative repair of the ulnar collateral ligament.	The range of motion of the MP joint of the thumb following repair of the ulnar collateral ligament has been compared with the range of motion of the uninjured thumb. By making this comparison we conclude that there is no good evidence that joint stiffness is a common post-operative complication.
Cross thumb transfer.	Thumb reconstruction following amputation was accomplished by microvascular transfer of the thumb from the contralateral paralyzed hand in two cases. The appearance and function of the transferred thumbs were excellent and no problem was seen in the donor hand.
Gamekeeper's thumb. Evaluation by arthrography and stress roentgenography.	We reviewed 197 previously reported cases of acute rupture of the ulnar collateral ligament of the metacarpophalangeal joint with respect to anatomy, diagnosis, surgical findings, and management. A standardized roentgenographic technique in stress abduction of the thumb was developed from thirty normal patients. The correlation between the abduction arc as recorded by our technique, the arthogram, and surgical pathology in twenty patients is reported.
A case of inveterate metacarpo-phalangeal dislocation of the thumb treated surgically by the Kessler method]	A case of inveterate dorsal dislocation of the MCP joint of the thumb treated by open reduction and tendon reinforcement of the volar capsule. The paper reports rare cases of inveterate, complete dorsal dislocation of the thumb MCP joint. After open reduction there was a full passive flexion but dorsal dislocation recurred. The tendency to return of dislocation was abolish by tendon reinforcement of the capsule of the joint described by Kessler. Follow up studies revealed no significant instability, the range of motion was between 20 degrees and 55 degrees of flexion.
Rapid relief of a painful, long-standing posttraumatic digital neuroma treated by transcutaneous vibratory stimulation (TVS).	A case of a patient with a painful posttraumatic digital neuroma that had been present for 13 years is presented. Treatment for the painful neuroma was twice a week for one month using transcutaneous vibratory stimulation (TVS). The patient was assessed using various tests before and after this period of treatment. There was a reduction in pain, and dexterity and strength improved. The method of treatment and the assessment techniques are described. In this case, the therapeutic benefit of the method could be clearly differentiated from the natural healing course, since no significant improvement had occurred spontaneously over many years.
Corrective osteotomy for post-traumatic malunion of the phalanges in the hand.	Rotation, angulation, deviation, shortening or a combination of deformities can occur due to phalangeal malunion and can lead to impairment of hand function. A historical cohort study of 57 patients who had phalangeal corrective osteotomies for posttraumatic malunion between 1978 and 1990 was undertaken. 59 rotational, radial/ulnar deviation, flexion/extension, length adjustment procedures, and combinations thereof were performed, using rigid internal fixation. Concurrent tenocapsulolysis was done in 50% of the cases. Satisfactory correction was obtained in 76% of the patients. Bony union was obtained in all cases. A net gain in active range of motion was achieved in 89% of the patients. Excellent and good results were obtained in 96% of the patients who had corrective osteotomies for malunion involving only the bone and in 64% of the patients who had corrections for malunion with involvement of multiple structures (P < 0.01).
A neurovascular island flap for volar-oblique fingertip amputations. Analysis of long-term results.	A neurovascular island flap has been developed to reconstruct volar-oblique fingertip amputations. This study analyzes the data collected on 16 patients who were treated with this flap and had at least 2 years follow-up. The average active/passive range of motion was 54/55 degrees at the DIP joint, 96/98 degrees at the PIP joint, and 83/83 degrees at the MP joint. Twelve out of 16 flaps (75%) had two-point discrimination better than 10 mm. Moderate and severe problems included cold intolerance (six patients), hypersensitivity (three patients), stiffness (three patients), and numbness (two patients). Out of the 16 patients treated with this technique, 14 were satisfied with their surgical outcome. In experienced hands, this technique is a safe and reliable method with which to reconstruct volar-oblique fingertip amputations.
Osseointegrated thumb prostheses: a concept for fixation of digit prosthetic devices.	Three patients with traumatic amputation of the thumb at the metacarpophalangeal joint level underwent a two-stage reconstruction aimed at fixation of a thumb prosthesis to the first metacarpal bone via an osseointegrated titanium fixture. The first stage included insertion of the fixture into the medullary cavity of the first metacarpal bone in combination with transplantation of cancellous bone from the iliac crest. After 3 months, when the fixture was firmly osseointegrated into the bone, a skin-penetrating abutment was placed on top of the fixture, the surrounding skin being thinned to the thickness of a split-skin graft to minimize relative mobility. A thumb prosthesis could then be firmly attached to this fixture. At follow-up examinations between 18 months and 3 years; postoperatively perfect osseointegration of the implant persisted. There were no skin problems. Some extent of tactile discrimination was achieved in the prosthesis hypothetically based on transfer of tactile stimuli to endosteal nerves in the bone via the titanium fixture.
Benefits and use of digital prostheses.	This study examines our clinical experience of fitting 136 digital prostheses in 90 patients. The careful selection of patients, especially concerning their expectations, is the single most important factor for successful prosthetic development for physically suitable candidates. Whether continued disability is due to physical loss or to its emotional impact, the socioeconomic consequences are similar, so attention to both is required. In a review of 30 patients fitted with digital prostheses after a minimum follow-up time of 2 years, it was found that 22 (73%) used their prostheses daily and another 7 (23%) used them intermittently according to the occasion. Thus, a total of 29 (97%) of those fitted with our digital prosthesis continued to use them after 2 years. Technical problems, such as loose fit and perspiration, resulted in 7 (23%) of the patients using the prostheses only occasionally. Fitting a prosthesis goes beyond aesthetics, and our study confirmed that digital prostheses, if of high quality, can alone or in conjunction with appropriate surgical reconstructions restore near normal appearance and form, substantially repair damaged body image, and simultaneously improve physical capability.
The Stener lesion revisited: a case report.	Proximal displacement of a ruptured ulnar collateral ligament of the metacarpophalangeal joint of a thumb (Stener lesion) can result in chronic instability if left untreated. Rupture without displacement generally leads to complete recovery. An associated fracture can give information about the position of the ruptured ligament. However, 2 cases are presented demonstrating that displacement of the ligament can occur in the absence of displacement of the bony fragment. This suggests that physical examination is required to determine stability with injuries to the ulnar structures of the thumb metacarpophalangeal joint.
Acute dislocation of the trapeziometacarpal joint in a child.	An acute dorsal dislocation of the trapeziometacarpal joint in a child is presented. The mechanisms of injury and controversies of treatment are discussed. The achievement of a stable reduction acutely is emphasized. After healing, joint stability is confirmed by obtaining stress radiographs to identify whether joint subluxation is present before degenerative changes occur.
