Feasibility of using surface markers for assessing motion of the thumb trapeziometacarpal joint.	The purposes of the present study were to investigate the feasibility of using a skin sensor to represent the first and third metacarpal bone, to verify that there was no significant relative motion between the skin of the third metacarpal bone and trapezium bony segment and to measure thumb metacarpal motion with respect to the hand (third metacarpal).
Prehension synergies in three dimensions.	The goal of this study was to investigate the conjoint changes of digit forces/moments in 3 dimensions during static prehension under external torques acting on the object in one plane. The experimental paradigm was similar to holding a book vertically in the air where the center of mass of the book is located farther from the hand than the points of digit contacts. Three force and 3 moment components from each digit were recorded during static prehension of a customized handle. Subjects produced forces and moments in all 3 directions, although the external torques were exerted on the handheld object about only the Z-axis. The 3-dimensional response to a 2-dimensional task was explained by the cause-effect chain effects prompted by the noncollinearity of the normal forces of the thumb and the 4 fingers (represented by the "virtual finger"). Because the forces are not collinear (not along the same line), they generate moments of force about X- and Y-axes that are negated by the finger forces along the Y- and X-directions. The magnitudes of forces produced by lateral fingers (index and little) with longer moment arms were larger compared with the central fingers (middle and ring). At the virtual finger (an imaginary digit whose mechanical action is equivalent to the summed action of the 4 fingers) level, the relative contribution of different fractions of the resistive moment produced by subjects did not depend on the torque magnitude. We conclude that the CNS 1) solves a planar prehension task by producing forces and moments in all 3 directions, 2) uses mechanical advantage of fingers, and 3) shares the total torque among finger forces and moments in a particular way disregarding the torque magnitude.
Acceleromyography vs. electromyography: an ipsilateral comparison of the indirectly evoked neuromuscular response to train-of-four stimulation.	There is a considerable body of evidence which suggests that data obtained using acceleromyography (AMG) cannot be used interchangeably with observations obtained by mechanomyographic (MMG) or electromyograhic (EMG) methods. All previous such studies evaluated the responses from contralateral limbs. This investigation was undertaken to determine if these previously described differences were in part a function of observing the responses from opposing limbs.
Mirror, mirror on the wall: viewing a mirror reflection of unilateral hand movements facilitates ipsilateral M1 excitability.	Primary motor cortex (M1) excitability is modulated by both ipsilateral limb movement and passive observation of movement of the contralateral limb. An interaction of these effects within M1 may account for recent research suggesting improved functional recovery of the impaired arm following stroke by viewing a mirror reflection of movements of the unimpaired arm superimposed over the (unseen) impaired arm. This hypothesis was tested in the present study using single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in eight neurologically healthy subjects. Excitability of M1 ipsilateral to a phasic, unilateral hand movement was measured while subjects performed paced (1 Hz), unilateral index finger-thumb opposition movements. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were obtained from the inactive first dorsal interosseous (FDI) in each of four viewing conditions: Active (viewing the active hand), Central (viewing a mark positioned between hands), Inactive (viewing the inactive hand) and Mirror (viewing a mirror-reflection of the active hand in a mirror oriented in the mid-sagittal plane) and with both hands at rest (Rest). MEPs were significantly enhanced during ipsilateral hand movement compared with the Rest condition (P<0.05). Largest MEPs were obtained in the Mirror condition, and this was significant compared with both the Inactive and Central viewing conditions (P<0.05). There was no difference between the dominant and non-dominant hand. Excitability of M1 ipsilateral to a unilateral hand movement is facilitated by viewing a mirror reflection of the moving hand. This finding provides neurophysiological evidence supporting the application of mirror therapy in stroke rehabilitation.
Effects of the Ebbinghaus figure on grasping are not only due to misjudged size.	It is not evident how the small effects of the flankers of the Ebbinghaus figure on peak grip aperture (PGA) should be interpreted. One interpretation is that the flankers influence the estimated size, which in turn influences the grasp. If this interpretation is correct, then only the size-dependent aspects of the grasping movement should depend on the spatial positions of the flankers. An alternative interpretation is that the effect on grip aperture is caused by a change in judgement of the required precision, in which case various aspects of the grasping movement could be influenced by the size and position of the flankers. We presented subjects with a display consisting of a central disk surrounded by four large or small flankers. The array of circular flankers could be rotated by 45 degrees . There were two tasks: to reproduce the perceived size of the central disk, and to grasp the central disk. As in other studies, the reproduced size and the PGA were both influenced by the size of the flankers. The effect on reproduced size settings was independent of the flankers' spatial position. Nevertheless, the flankers' position did influence the final grip aperture and the grip orientation at PGA and at movement offset. Because the flankers changed more than only the PGA, we conclude that the effect of the flankers on prehension cannot only be because of misjudgement of the size of the central disk.
Responses of cerebellar Purkinje cells to slip of a hand-held object.	1. Two monkeys were trained to grasp, lift, and hold a device between the thumb and forefinger for 1 s. The device was equipped with a position transducer and strain gauges that measured the horizontal grip force and the vertical lifting or load force. On selected blocks of 20-30 trials, a force-pulse perturbation was applied to the object during static holding to simulate object slip. The animals were required to resist this displacement by stiffening the joints of their wrists and fingers to obtain a fruit juice reward. Single cells in the hand representation area of the paravermal anterior lobe of the cerebellar cortex were recorded during perturbed and unperturbed holding. If conditions permitted, the cell discharge was also recorded during lifting of objects of various weights (15, 65, or 115 g) or different surface textures (sandpaper or polished metal), and when possible the cutaneous or proprioceptive fields of the neurons were characterized with the use of natural stimulation. 2. On perturbed trials, the force pulse was always applied to the manipulandum after it had been held stationary within the position window for 750 ms. The perturbation invariably elicited a reflexlike increase of electromyographic (EMG) activity in wrist and finger muscles, resulting in a time-locked increase in grip force that peaked at a latency between 50 and 100 ms. 3. The object-slip perturbation had a powerful effect on cerebellar cortical neurons at a mean latency of 45 +/- 14 (SD) ms. Reflexlike increases or decreases in simple spike discharge occurred in 55% (53/97) of unidentified cells and 49% (21/43) of Purkinje cells recorded in the anterior paravermal and lateral cerebellar cortex. 4. The perturbation failed to evoke complex spike responses from any of the Purkinje cells examined. All the perturbation-evoked activity changes involved modulation of the simple spike discharge. The perturbations stimulated the simple-spike receptive field of most Purkinje cells recorded here, which suggests that the short-latency unit responses were triggered by afferent stimulation. Only one Purkinje cell was found with a distinct complex-spike receptive field on the thumb, but this neuron did not respond to the perturbation. It appears that simple- and complex-spike to receptive fields are not always identical or even closely related. 5. The majority of Purkinje and unidentified neurons that responded to the perturbation had cutaneous receptive fields, although some had proprioceptive fields. Seventy-seven neurons were examined for peripheral receptive fields and were also tested with the perturbation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of periodontal instrument handle design on hand muscle load and pinch force.	In comparison with people in other occupations, dentists and dental hygienists are at increased risk of developing work-related musculoskeletal disorders, including carpal tunnel syndrome. An important risk factor in dental practice is forceful pinching, which occurs during dental scaling. Ergonomically designed dental instruments may help reduce the prevalence of MSDs among dental practitioners.
Conditioning transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation induces delayed gating effects on cortical response: a magnetoencephalographic study.	The present study was undertaken to investigate after-effects of 7 Hz non-painful prolonged stimulation of the median nerve on somatosensory-evoked fields (SEFs). The working hypothesis that conditioning peripheral stimulations might produce delayed interfering ("gating") effects on the response of somatosensory cortex to test stimuli was evaluated. In the control condition, electrical thumb stimulation induced SEFs in ten subjects. In the experimental protocol, a conditioning median nerve stimulation at wrist preceded 6 electrical thumb stimulations. Equivalent current dipoles fitting SEFs modeled responses of contralateral primary area (SI) and bilateral secondary somatosensory areas (SII) following control and experimental conditions. Compared to the control condition, conditioning stimulation induced no amplitude modulation of SI response at the initial stimulus-related peak (20 ms). In contrast, later response from SI (35 ms) and response from SII were significantly weakened in amplitude. Gradual but fast recovery towards control amplitude levels was observed for the response from SI-P35, while a slightly slower cycle was featured from SII. These findings point to a delayed "gating" effect on the synchronization of somatosensory cortex after peripheral conditioning stimulations. This effect was found to be more lasting in SII area, as a possible reflection of its integrative role in sensory processing.
Accuracy and feasibility of using an electrogoniometer for measuring simple thumb movements.	The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy and feasibility of using an electrogoniometer (Model SG 110; Biometrics, Gwent, UK) for measuring simple thumb movements. Thumb disorders have been associated with the use of hand held devices such as mobile phones and these devices have become an integral part of modern life. In 15 young subjects, the measurements of eight flexion/extension (Flex/Ext) and adduction/abduction (Ad/Ab) thumb positions were compared between a thumb-mounted electrogoniometer and manual goniometer (which was taken as the benchmark). Group mean electrogoniometric measurement errors were below 4 degrees and 5 degrees for Ad/Ab and Flex/Ext measurements, respectively. During mobile phone use, the electrogoniometers measured differences in maximal joint angle postures, which appeared to be related to differences in mobile phone size. High movement velocities may increase the risk of musculoskeletal injury and the results indicated that Ad/Ab movements were twice the speed of Flex/Ext movements during mobile phone use. Electrogoniometers have utility for studying thumb movements during mobile phone use and may be used to evaluate other thumb-based input devices.
Joint kinematics after thumb carpometacarpal joint reconstruction: an in vitro comparison of various constructs.	Osteoarthritis (OA) of the thumb carpometacarpal (CMC) joint causes pain and limits thumb motion. Different surgical procedures exist to treat thumb CMC OA; however, kinematic analyses of thumb reconstructions are limited. The purpose of this study was to evaluate kinematic changes of the thumb CMC joint as the result of different thumb reconstruction procedures.
The use of the wavelet transform in EMG M-wave pattern classification.	A system was previously designed to obtain estimates of the number of motor units (MUNE) in a superficial muscle and hence number of functioning motor neurons to that muscle. This method uses incremental stimulation of a motor nerve and subsequent recognition and classification of the elicited M-waves. In this earlier work we used the Fourier power coefficients as pattern classifiers. The presented work compares the Fourier transform classifier results with those obtained using a wavelet transform classifier. Data to test the two approaches were obtained from the thenar muscles of ten normal subjects. The results show that the wavelet transform is superior to the Fourier in classifying M-waves with significantly improved inter and intra-class variances.
Finger taps movement acceleration measurement system for quantitative diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.	The purpose of this study was to develop a finger taps acceleration measurement system for the quantitative diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The system was composed of two 3-axis piezoelectric element accelerometers, a pair of touch sensors made of thin stainless steel sheets, an analog-digital(AD) converter and a personal computer (PC). Fingerstalls,with these sensors, were attached to subject's index finger and thumb. The acceleration and output of the touch sensors were recorded using the PC during the finger taps movements. Intervals between the single finger taps movements were calculated from the measured output of the touch sensors. Velocities during the single finger taps movements were calculated by integrating the measured acceleration. The amplitudes were calculated by integrating the velocities. The standard deviation of the single finger taps intervals, average of maximum single finger taps velocities and average of maximum single finger taps amplitudes were calculated from them. They were used as features for the quantitative diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The developed system was used to conduct finger taps tests employing 27 normal subjects and 16 Parkinson's diseases subjects. The subjects were asked to execute continuous finger taps movement for 60 s. It was shown that the acceleration and output of the touch sensors could be measured and the features could be extracted.
Primary palmaris longus transfer as an opponensplasty in carpal tunnel release. A series of 73 cases.	Seventy three Camitz-Littler operations combining carpal tunnel release and palmaris longus oppenens transfer provided 90.7% good long term results. A technical modification can provide pronation.
Assisting two children with multiple disabilities and minimal motor skills control environmental stimuli with thumb poke through a trackball.	Microswitches are the most commonly used input device for people with multiple disabilities to control environmental stimulation. However, little is known about adopting the commercial trackball with a revised trackball driver as a more feasible input device.
Perceived compliance in a pinch.	Handling a compliant object using a pinch grasp provides sensory information about deformation and resistive force from both index finger and thumb. In this paper, an object with rigid surfaces and composed of two compliant materials fixed on a central position is used to address how information from the two fingers is integrated into a holistic percept of compliance. Results indicate that with small differences in material compliance there is a small tendency to rely more on the information at the index finger. With larger differences in material compliance participants adopt different movement patterns with the two fingers to explore the objects. Compliance judgments depend on the relative amount of motion and force exerted-the finger that presses more contributes more to the final estimate. This tendency is consistent with the utilization of a unique force signal for the two fingers. The uneven contribution of the sensory information in the pinch leads to predictable compliance discrimination performance from the performance obtained using the fingers independently.
An involuntary stereotypical grasp tendency pervades voluntary dynamic multifinger manipulation.	We used a novel apparatus with three hinged finger pads to characterize collaborative multifinger interactions during dynamic manipulation requiring individuated control of fingertip motions and forces. Subjects placed the thumb, index, and middle fingertips on each hinged finger pad and held it-unsupported-with constant total grasp force while voluntarily oscillating the thumb's pad. This task combines the need to 1) hold the object against gravity while 2) dynamically reconfiguring the grasp. Fingertip force variability in this combined motion and force task exhibited strong synchrony among normal (i.e., grasp) forces. Mechanical analysis and simulation show that such synchronous variability is unnecessary and cannot be explained solely by signal-dependent noise. Surprisingly, such variability also pervaded control tasks requiring different individuated fingertip motions and forces, but not tasks without finger individuation such as static grasp. These results critically extend notions of finger force variability by exposing and quantifying a pervasive challenge to dynamic multifinger manipulation: the need for the neural controller to carefully and continuously overlay individuated finger actions over mechanically unnecessary synchronous interactions. This is compatible with-and may explain-the phenomenology of strong coupling of hand muscles when this delicate balance is not yet developed, as in early childhood, or when disrupted, as in brain injury. We conclude that the control of healthy multifinger dynamic manipulation has barely enough neuromechanical degrees of freedom to meet the multiple demands of ecological tasks and critically depends on the continuous inhibition of synchronous grasp tendencies, which we speculate may be of vestigial evolutionary origin.
Roughness perception across the hands.	It has previously been shown that the perceived roughness of a surface touched by one digit is influenced by the roughness of a different surface touched simultaneously by another digit on the same hand. The present study was designed to examine whether this is the case when surfaces of varying roughness are touched using digits on separate hands. Participants touched pairs of sandpaper surfaces, in sequence, using the same digit, and identified which of the two was rougher. Roughness discrimination was measured in the presence of distractor surfaces touched simultaneously with the target surface, but using a different digit either on the same or on the other hand. The overall perception of roughness of the attended surfaces was better on the left than on the right hand. Perceived roughness also varied systematically with the roughness of the distractor surfaces. Attended surfaces were more likely to be perceived as smoother when they were paired with smooth rather than rough distractors. Likewise, attended surfaces tended to be perceived as rougher with rough distractors. This pattern of results occurred whether the attended and distractor digits were on the same hand or different hands. These data confirm that it is difficult to restrict tactile attention for roughness to a single digit and show that this difficulty extends to restricting attention to a single hand. Furthermore, the effect of a stimulus at an unattended body location was not simply to impair perception in general, but to bias it in the roughness direction of the distractor surface. 
Biomimetic hand exotendon device (BiomHED) for functional hand rehabilitation in stroke.	Significant functional impairment of the hand is commonly observed among stroke survivors. In order to restore the functional use of the affected hand, we developed a biomimetic device that assists in generating functional movements of the hand. The device is actuated by exotendons that replicate the kinetic functional of the hand muscle-tendons, therefore it can reproduce the spatial finger joint coordination patterns of the functional manual tasks (e.g., power grip and pinch) with a reduced number of actuators. The system includes a thumb actuation mechanism, whose action is coordinated with finger exotendons to perform various manual tasks, thereby restoring the functional use of the hand. This paper presents the design of the device and the preliminary data of the functional movement generation by the system. 
A pediatric robotic thumb exoskeleton for at-home rehabilitation: the Isolated Orthosis for Thumb Actuation (IOTA).	In this paper, we present the design of a thumb exoskeleton for pediatric at-home rehabilitation. Pediatric disorders, such as cerebral palsy (CP) and stroke, can result in thumb in palm deformity greatly limiting hand function. This not only limits children's ability to perform activities of daily living but also limits important motor skill development. Specifically, the device, dubbed IOTA (Isolated Orthosis for Thumb Actuation) is a 2-DOF thumb exoskeleton that can actuate the carpometacarpal (CMC) and metacarpalphalangeal (MCP) joints through ranges of motion required for activities of daily living. The device consists of a lightweight hand-mounted mechanism that can be custom secured and aligned to the wearer. The mechanism is actuated via flexible cables that connect to a portable control box. Embedded encoders and bend sensors monitor the two degrees of freedom of the thumb and flexion/extension of the wrist. Using this platform, a number of control modes can be implemented that will enable the device to be intuitively controlled by a patient to assist with opposition grasp, fine motor control, and ultimately facilitate motor recovery. We envision this at-home device augmenting the current in-clinic therapy and enabling tele-rehabilitation where a clinician can remotely monitor a patient's usage and performance. 
Kinematic and electromyographic responses to perturbation of a rapid grasp.	Kinematic and electromyographic responses of the thumb and index finger to load-induced extension of the thumb during a rapid precision grasp of the thumb and finger were studied in four human subjects. Angular position of the index finger metacarpophalangeal (MP) and proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints was recorded along with the linear position of the thumb tip (TH). Myoelectric activity was recorded from flexor pollicis longus, flexor digitorum superficialis, first dorsal interosseous, and extensor digitorum communis. Loads that extended the thumb were applied ranging from 125 ms prior to movement onset to movement onset. For loads applied earlier than 50 ms before movement onset, the amount of flexion of TH was reduced compared with control trials. Contact between the finger and thumb was attained nonetheless due to an altered trajectory of the fingertip that was generated by reduced flexion of PIP and increased flexion of MP. These finger responses appear to be functional in that contact of the finger pulp on the more distal pulp of the thumb was preserved. With loads delivered near onset of the grasp, there was increased PIP flexion, rather than reduced PIP flexion. These responses to later loads occurred despite greatly reduced magnitudes of TH flexion compared with loads delivered well before onset of the gasp movements. Thus reduced PIP flexion observed with early loads was not simply the result of finger biomechanics. The thumb flexor muscle increased activity 45-55 ms after onset of the load, whereas responses of the finger flexors began 65 ms after load onset. Response magnitudes decreased as loads were introduced nearer to movement onset. Measured reaction times of the finger muscles to thumb extension stimuli averaged 154 ms, which indicated that the responses of the finger muscles were not voluntary responses to the thumb extension. Afferent information generated by perturbation of the thumb during a grasp movement can influence the activity of intrinsic and extrinsic muscles to yield apparently functional compensations in the closing movements. However, temporal limitations exist that appear to offer greater constraints on the use of afferent signals for controlling rapid movements than for sustained grasp.
Digital replantations distal to the distal interphalangeal joint.	Microvascular replantations of digits distal to the distal interphalangeal (DIP) joint were reviewed in 33 digits of 29 patients. Twenty-five digits were completely amputated and eight were incompletely amputated. Ten of 33 replants failed and 23 digits survived. Even without venous reconstruction, good results were obtained in Zone I. Of eight completely amputated digits in Zone 1 in which venous reconstruction was not performed, seven digits survived. Of four completely amputated digits in Zone 2 without venous reconstruction, all became necrotic. In digits followed for six months or more after surgery, 11 of 13 replantations showed good functional recovery. Two digits that developed paresthesia after replantation were functionally useless. Seven digits without bilateral digital nerve reconstruction were reviewed six months or more after surgery. Sensory recovery was good in the digital phalanx; the factor impeding functional recovery was the development of paresthesia. Replanted digits distal to the DIP joint are thus satisfactory in both function and cosmesis, even if digital nerves have not been reconstructed. The replantation of such digits should be considered.
Lateralization of kinesthetically guided spatial perception.	The present study measured unimanual kinesthetic discrimination for the right and left thumb angular position of male and female right handers without left handed relatives. Each subject's discrimination threshold and constant error were obtained by the Method of Constant Stimuli. Subjects either made an active movement in assessing the standard thumb angle or were passive while the angle was set by the experimenter. Subjects either reported their decision orally or made a non-verbal movement. A difference was found between the thumbs in the direction of more sensitive kinesthetic discrimination by the left thumb (right hemisphere). The left thumb was found to have smaller discrimination threshold of angular position by about 20% over the right thumb. Sex, passive movement mode, and verbal response were not related to the lateralization effect.
Patterns of lateral preference: hand, eye, thumb and clapping.	The incidences of four lateral preferences were studied in a sample of 143 college students (81 women and 62 men). These were handedness defined by writing, eye dominance using the Asher technique, the upper thumb when hands are clasped, and the upper hand when hands are clapped. A computer program was developed to obtain the incidence of all patterns of these lateral traits seen in the sample and to indicate which occurred beyond the chance level. The strongest paired lateral concurrence was between handedness and clapping (76.9% for both sexes combined). Greater coherence was found between right preferences than left ones.
Thumb reconstruction with an iliac bone graft and a dorsalis pedis flap transplant including the extensor digitorum brevis muscle for restoring opposition: a case report.	A method for thumb reconstruction with an iliac bone graft and a dorsalis pedis flap transplant, including the extensor digitorum brevis muscle for restoring opposition, is presented. This case involved a 21-year-old man with a traumatically absent right thumb at the metacarpal base. Thumb reconstruction by means of an iliac bone graft with immediate transfer of a dorsalis pedis neurovascular sensory free flap, including the extensor digitorum brevis muscle to restore the opponens pollicis muscle, was carried out. After a period of six months he had gained satisfactory opposition of his newly reconstructed thumb to the ring finger, with evidence of contraction of the muscle on electromyograms.
Fresh sections of the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb. New therapeutic trends. Apropos of a clinical series of 77 tendon lesions]	In flexor tendon surgery, the main concern of hand surgeons in the last two decades has been to find an effective and reproducible means to avoid post-operative adhesions. For most authors, these adhesions were responsible for the bad results. Since 1960, a constant progress has been achieved with the progress in operative procedures and the better understanding of tendon healing process. Post-operative rehabilitation, especially Kleinert's and Duran's active and passive methods, have radically transformed the prognosis of fresh tendon lesions. In spite of all this progress, zone II tendon injuries are still a difficult problem. In this clinical study, we wanted to introduce two new orientations in order to improve the overall results, the use of human fibrin sealant instead of the epitendinous running suture and an improvement of Duran's technique, developed by the Bichat rehabilitation team since 1987. Seventy-seven tendon lesions treated according to our technique (55 fingers and 22 thumbs) between 1987 and 1991, were reviewed. All the lesions studied were in zone II and T II. The mean follow-up is 14.4 months. The evaluation is based on the International Federation of Hand Surgery score for fingers, and the Tubiana score for thumbs. 74% of fingers and 86% of thumbs were scored as good and excellent.
The axes of rotation of the thumb interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints.	The axes of rotation of the thumb interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints were located using a mechanical method. The interphalangeal joint axis is parallel to the flexion crease of the joint and is not perpendicular to the phalanx. This offset of the axis with respect to the phalanx explains the ulnar deviation and pronation that occurs with flexion of the interphalangeal joint. The metacarpophalangeal joint has 2 fixed axes: a fixed flexion-extension axis just distal and volar to the epicondyles, and an abduction-adduction axis related to the proximal phalanx passing between the sesamoids. Neither axis is perpendicular to the phalanges. All physiologic motion for these joints occurs about the axes. These are the mechanical axes of the joints through which the muscles and external forces act. Knowledge of their location should help in constructing prosthetic joints and in planning reconstructive surgery such as tendon transfers.
Kinematics of the normal trapeziometacarpal joint.	Motion of the trapeziometacarpal joint was studied in 12 hands from fresh human cadavera. By use of a magnetic tracking system, a full range of motion of the first metacarpal was analyzed with respect to a defined trapezial coordinate system. The traces of the reference points on the head and base of the first metacarpal were monitored, and the instantaneous centers of rotation were calculated. During circumduction, the reference points on the head and base followed elliptical paths but in opposite directions. The average instantaneous center of circumduction was at approximately the center of the trapezial joint surface. In flexion-extension, the axis of rotation was located within the trapezium, and the path of the head was identical to the path of the base. In abduction-adduction, the axis of rotation was located distal to the trapezium within the base of the first metacarpal, and the base and head moved in opposite directions. There was no single center of rotation; rather, instantaneous motion occurred reciprocally between these centers of rotation within the trapezium and metacarpal base in the normal thumb. This changing instantaneous center of rotation results in a unique pattern of motion which is related to congruent, tightly constrained joint surfaces of two reciprocal saddle joints and to precisely positioned extraarticular ligaments.
Kinematics of the trapeziometacarpal joint after sectioning of ligaments.	This study was designed to examine the roles of ligaments in the maintenance of the articular kinematics of the trapeziometacarpal joint. Circumduction of the trapeziometacarpal joint was studied in 12 hands from fresh human cadavera. With use of a magnetic tracking system, changes in the motion of the base of the first metacarpal after ligament sectioning were analyzed and compared with those of the normal joint. Two sets of ligaments were sectioned: (a) the anterior oblique and ulnar collateral ligaments and (b) the first intermetacarpal ligament and the ulnar joint capsule. Sectioning of the anterior oblique and ulnar collateral ligaments resulted in a significant dorsal-ulnar shift in the path of the base of the first metacarpal. However, sectioning of the first intermetacarpal ligament did not affect the movement pattern of the center of the base. The anterior oblique and ulnar collateral ligaments provided constraint of the trapeziometacarpal joint during circumduction of the thumb.
Control of grip force during restraint of an object held between finger and thumb: responses of cutaneous afferents from the digits.	Unexpected pulling and pushing loads exerted by an object held with a precision grip evoke automatic and graded increases in the grip force (normal to the grip surfaces) that prevent escape of the object; unloading elicits a decrease in grip force. Anesthesia of the digital nerves has shown that these grip reactions depend on sensory signals from the digits. In the present study we assessed the capacity of tactile afferents from the digits to trigger and scale the evoked grip responses. Using tungsten microelectrodes inserted percutaneously into the median nerve of awake human subjects, unitary recordings were made from ten FA I and 13 FA II rapidly adapting afferents, and 12 SA I and 18 SA II slowly adapting afferents. While the subject held a manipulandum between a finger and the thumb, tangential load forces were applied to the receptor-bearing digit (index, middle, or ring finger or thumb) as trapezoidal load-force profiles with a plateau amplitude of 0.5-2.0 N and rates of loading and unloading at 2-8 N/s, or as "step-loads" of 0.5 N delivered at 32 N/s. Such load trials were delivered in both the distal (pulling) and proximal (pushing) direction. FA I afferents responded consistently to the load forces, being recruited during the loading and unloading phases. During the loading ramp the ensemble discharge of the FA I afferents reflected the first time-derivative of the load force (i.e., the load-force rate). These afferents were relatively insensitive to the subject's grip force responses. However, high static finger forces appeared to suppress excitation of these afferents during the unloading phase. The FA II afferents were largely insensitive to the load trials: only with the step-loads did some afferents respond. Both classes of SA afferents were sensitive to load force and grip force, and discharge rates were graded by the rate of loading. The firing of the SA I afferents appeared to be relatively more influenced by the subject's grip-force response than the discharge of the SA II afferents, which were more influenced by the load-force stimulus. The direction in which the tangential load force was applied to the skin influenced the firing of most afferents and in particular the SA II afferents. Individual afferents within each class (except for the FA IIs) responded to the loading ramp before the onset of the subject's grip response and may thus be responsible for initiating the automatic increase in grip force. However, nearly half of the FA I afferents recruited by the load trials responded to the loading phase early enough to trigger the subject's grip-force response, whereas only ca. one-fifth of the SA Is and SA IIs did so. These observations, together with the high density of FA I receptors in the digits, might place the FA I afferents in a unique position to convey the information required to initiate and scale the reactive grip-force responses to the imposed load forces.
Control of grip force during restraint of an object held between finger and thumb: responses of muscle and joint afferents from the digits.	Pulling or pushing forces applied to an object gripped between finger and thumb excite tactile afferents in the digits in a manner awarding these afferents probable roles in triggering the reactive increases in grip force and in scaling the changes in grip force to the changes in applied load-force. In the present study we assessed the possible contributions from slowly adapting afferents supplying muscles involved in the generation of grip forces and from digital joint afferents. Impulses were recorded from single afferents via tungsten microelectrodes inserted percutaneously into the median or ulnar nerves of awake human subjects. The subject held a manipulandum with a precision grip between the receptor-related digit (index finger, middle finger, ring finger or thumb) and an opposing digit (thumb or index finger). Ramp-and-hold load forces of various amplitudes (0.5-2.0 N) and ramp rates (2-32 N/s) were delivered tangential to the parallel grip surfaces in both the distal (pulling) and the proximal (pushing) directions. Afferents from the long flexors of the digits (n = 19), regardless of their muscle-spindle or tendon-organ origin, did not respond to the load forces before the onset of the automatic grip response, even with the fastest ramp rates. Their peak discharge closely followed the peak rate of increase in grip force. During the hold phase of the load stimulus, the afferents sustained a tonic discharge. The discharge rates were significantly lower with proximally directed loads despite the mean grip-force being similar in the two directions. This disparity could be explained by the differing contributions of these muscles to the finger-tip forces necessary to restrain the manipulandum in the two directions. Most afferents from the short flexors of the digits (n = 17), including the lumbricals, dorsal interossei, opponens pollicis, and flexor pollicis brevis, did not respond at all, even with the fastest ramps. Furthermore, the ensemble pattern from the joint afferents (n = 6) revealed no significant encoding of changes in finger-tip forces before the onset of the increase in grip force. We conclude that mechanoreceptors in the flexors of the digits and in the interphalangeal joints cannot be awarded a significant role in triggering the automatic changes in grip force. Rather, their responses appeared to reflect the reactive forces generated by the muscles to restrain the object. Hence, it appears that tactile afferents of the skin in contact with the object are the only species of receptor in the hand capable of triggering and initially scaling an appropriate change in grip force in response to an imposed change in load force, but that muscle and joint afferents may provide information related to the reactive forces produced by the subject.
Grasping component alterations and limb transport.	The kinematic changes associated with the manipulation and transport components during a prehensile movement were examined using an experimental paradigm that required alterations in only the manipulation component. Instead of starting with the thumb and index finger naturally together (control condition), subjects began the reach-to-grasp movement with their thumb and fingers fully extended (experimental condition). In contrast to the control condition, in the experimental conditions the thumb and index finger started to close during wrist transport, then opened again prior to object grasp. In addition, there was a brief inflection in the ascending portion of the velocity profile of the wrist in over half the trials. However, all the primary features of the transport component profile remained unaltered. The results suggest that there can be substantial reorganization of the grip aperture during the first part of the reach without altering the temporal and spatial relationships between grip aperture and transport as the object to be grasped is approached.
Restoration of apposition function in residual hand by the Ilizarov method: a case report.	A five-year-old boy is presented with multiple finger and toe amputations, secondary to meningococcemia. The child developed a bimanual use pattern of the upper extremities with a significant amount of soft tissue scarring. The left hand was reconstructed according to Ilizarov's method by a combination of distraction lengthening of the metacarpals with two mini-Hoffman distractors and gradual interdigital space widening with web deepening accompanied by a modified Ilizarov apparatus. One year after removal of the external fixation frame, the web space is preserved and the child is adapting to the pincer-like function of his hands.
Muscle activation in unilateral and bilateral efforts assessed by motor nerve and cortical stimulation.	Voluntary muscle activation was measured with twitch interpolation in 11 subjects during attempted maximal voluntary contractions of the right thumb adductor muscles either in isolation ("thumb alone") or as the subjects simultaneously performed maximal voluntary contractions of the left thumb adductors or left elbow flexors ("both thumbs" or "thumb and elbow", respectively). During thumb alone contractions, median voluntary activation of the right thumb adductors was 90.3%, and subjects fully activated the thumb adductors on 22% of all contractions. Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the cortex during maximal voluntary efforts produced small twitchlike force increases, suggesting that at least part of the voluntary activation failure was attributable to suboptimal corticospinal drive. Maximal voluntary force produced by the right thumb adductors in the three conditions differed by < 2% (P = 0.21), and the ability to activate the thumb adductors in the both thumbs condition was only marginally less than during thumb alone contractions (median 88.6%; P = 0.004). Thus subjects are usually unable to fully activate their thumb adductors with maximal voluntary efforts, and simultaneous maximal contractions of contralateral muscle groups have little effect on this ability.
Time course of corticospinal excitability in reaction time and self-paced movements.	We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study the time course of corticospinal excitability before and after brisk thumb abduction movements, either in a simple reaction time (RT) paradigm or self-paced. Premovement increase in corticospinal excitability began about 20 msec earlier for self-paced compared with simple RT movements. For both simple RT and self-paced movements after electromyographic (EMG) offset, there was a first period of increased excitability from 0 to 100 msec, followed by a second period from 100 to 160 msec. Corticospinal excitability was decreased from about 500 to 1,000 msec after EMG offset for both types of movements. Our results show that motor preparation that begins 1.5 to 2 seconds before self-paced movement is not associated with increased corticospinal excitability. The first phase of increased corticospinal excitability after EMG offset may be due to activity of motor cortex neuron subthreshold for activating spinal motor neurons, and the second phase may reflect a subthreshold second agonist burst. The period of decreased corticospinal excitability after movement corresponds to the onset of event-related synchronization (ERS) of electroencephalographic signals in the 20-Hz band, and supports the hypothesis that ERS may be related to an inactive, idling state of the motor cortex.
Mechanical advantage of the thumb muscles.	The purpose of this study was to measure the moment arms of four extrinsic muscles (flexor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis brevis, and abductor pollicis longus) and four intrinsic muscles (flexor pollicis brevis, abductor pollicis brevis, adductor pollicis, and opponents pollicis) of the thumb at the interphalangeal, the metacarpophalangeal, and the carpometacarpal joints in the same cadaver specimens and to examine the specific role of each muscle. Measurements were made on seven fresh frozen cadaver hands. The moment arms were measured during flexion/extension of the interphalangeal joint, flexion/extension and adduction/abduction of the metacarpophalangeal joint, and flexion/extension and adduction/abduction of the carpometacarpal joint. Moment arms were computed using the slope of the tendon excursion joint angle relationship. The specific function of each muscle was determined by multiplying the measured moment arms by the maximum force that each muscle can generate. It was found that the flexor pollicis longus was a pure flexor while flexor pollicis brevis was an adductor as well as a flexor, the extensor pollicis longus was an extensor and an adductor, extensor pollicis brevis was an extensor and a mild abductor, the abductor pollicis longus was an extensor as well as an abductor, the abductor pollicis brevis was mainly an abductor, the adductor pollicis was a major flexor as well as an adductor, and the opponents pollicis was a flexor and an abductor.
Cortical activation during fast repetitive finger movements in humans: steady-state movement-related magnetic fields and their cortical generators.	To study the cortical physiology of fast repetitive finger movements.
