Oral activity of a methylenecyclopropane analog, cyclopropavir, in animal models for cytomegalovirus infections.	We reported previously that purine 2-(hydroxymethyl)methylenecyclopropane analogs have good activity against cytomegalovirus infection. A second-generation analog, (Z)-9-[[2,2-bis-(hydroxymethyl)cyclopropylidene]methyl]guanine (ZSM-I-62, cyclopropavir [CPV]), has particularly good activity against murine and human cytomegaloviruses (MCMV and HCMV) in vitro. To determine the oral activity of this compound in vivo, BALB/c or severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice infected with MCMV and two models using SCID mice implanted with human fetal tissue and subsequently infected with HCMV were used. In MCMV-infected normal mice, CPV at 10 mg/kg of body weight was highly effective in preventing mortality when administered at 24, 48, or 72 h post-viral inoculation and reduced titers of virus in tissues of SCID mice by 2 to 5 log10. In one HCMV model, human fetal retinal tissue was implanted into the anterior chamber of the mouse eye and inoculated with the Toledo strain of HCMV, and in the second, human fetal thymus and liver tissues were implanted under the kidney capsule of mice and then inoculated with HCMV. In general, replication of HCMV in both types of implant tissue increased from 7 through 21 to 28 days and then gradually decreased to undetectable levels by 8 weeks postinfection. Oral treatment with 45 or 15 mg of CPV/kg initiated 24 h after infection was highly effective in reducing replication to undetectable levels in both models and was generally more effective than ganciclovir. These data indicate that the methylenecyclopropane analog, CPV, was highly efficacious in these four animal models and should be evaluated for use in HCMV infections in humans.
Subtle mutational changes in the SU protein of a natural feline leukemia virus subgroup A isolate alter disease spectrum.	FeLV-945 is a representative isolate of the natural feline leukemia virus (FeLV) variant predominant in non-T-cell malignant, proliferative, and degenerative diseases in a geographic cohort. The FeLV-945 surface glycoprotein (SU) is closely related to natural horizontally transmissible FeLV subgroup A (FeLV-A) but was found to differ from a prototype to a larger extent than the members of FeLV-A differ among themselves. The sequence differences included point mutations restricted largely to the functional domains of SU, i.e., VRA, VRB, and PRR. Despite the sequence differences in these critical domains, measurements of receptor utilization, including host range and superinfection interference, confirmed the assignment of FeLV-945 to subgroup A. Other proviruses isolated from the cohort contained similar sequence hallmarks and were assigned to FeLV subgroup A. A provirus from cat 1046 contained a histidine-to-proline change at SU residue 6 within an SPHQ motif that was previously identified as a critical mediator of fusion events during virus entry. The 1046 pseudotype virus entered cells only in the presence of the soluble cofactor FeLIX provided in trans, but it retained an ecotropic host range even in the presence of FeLIX. The mutational changes in FeLV-945 were shown to confer significant functional differences compared to prototype FeLV-A viruses. The substitution of FeLV-945 envelope gene sequences for FeLV-A/61E sequences conferred a small but statistically significant replicative advantage in some feline cells. Moreover, substitution of the unique FeLV-945 long terminal repeat and envelope gene for those of FeLV-A/61E altered the disease spectrum entirely, from a thymic lymphoma of a T-cell origin to an as yet uncharacterized multicentric lymphoma that did not contain T cells.
Biological characteristics of chicken anemia virus regenerated from clinical specimen by PCR.	Our previous genetic characterization of chicken anemia virus (CAV) in commercial broiler chickens in Alabama revealed a previously undetected polymorphism: a glutamine codon at VP1 position 22, in 7 of the 14 sequences. The novel glutamine codon was always found in association with a VP1 "hypervariable region" identical to CAV field isolates that replicate poorly in culture. The complete genome of CAV73, representative of the sequences with the novel polymorphism, was generated from cloned polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fragments amplified directly from naturally infected tissues. CAV73 had been detected in 31-day-old broilers submitted for examination for reasons unrelated to anemia. After electroporation of the cloned genomes into MDCC-CU147 lymphoblastoid cells, the regenerated CAV caused the culture to fail within 9 days, and the medium contained 5 X 10(6) TCID50 CAV/ml. Use of MDCC-CU147 cells was essential, as identical electroporation of MDCC-MSB1 cells failed to generate CAV able to destroy the culture within 8 wk. Regenerated CAV73 produced anemia and severe lymphocytic depletion of the thymus when inoculated into susceptible 3-day-old chickens and was reisolated from these chickens. Furthermore, it replicated in low- and high-passage MDCC-MSB1 cells similarly to a low-passage CAV field isolate that contains a different VP 1 "hypervariable region." The regeneration of CAV from PCR products directly from naturally infected carcasses, as performed in this study, provides a tool for the evaluation of distinct genetic polymorphisms that may be detected in specimens where infective virions are no longer available. Our results also provide some insight into the differential susceptibility of cell lines for low-passage CAV field isolates.
Biological characterization of Nigerian chicken anaemia virus isolates.	Chicken anaemia virus (CAV) DNA was extracted from thymus, liver and bone marrow samples obtained from broiler and pullet chicken flocks in southwestern Nigeria, which presented with clinical signs and lesions suggestive of both infectious bursal disease and chicken infectious anaemia. While CAV was successfully isolated in MDCC-MSB1 cells from four of the pooled tissue samples, the remaining two samples failed to grow in cells. Monoclonal antibody (MAb) characterization using four MAbs produced against the reference Cuxhaven-1 (Cux-1) CAV isolate showed that Nigerian CAV isolates are antigenically related to each other and to the Cux-1 virus. Pathogenicity studies with the Cux-1 virus and one of the Nigerian isolates (NGR-1) revealed that NGR-1 was more pathogenic that the former. We conclude that although Nigerian CAV isolates are antigenically related to each other, they differ in terms of cell culture growth characteristics and probably pathogenicity. These findings further confirm that CAV exists and can no longer be ignored in poultry disease diagnosis in Nigeria. Cases hitherto diagnosed as IBD may actually be CIA or a co-infection of the two.
Variation in fetal outcome, viral load and ORF5 sequence mutations in a large scale study of phenotypic responses to late gestation exposure to type 2 porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus.	In spite of extensive research, the mechanisms of reproductive disease associated with Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome virus (PRRSv) are still poorly understood. The objectives of this large scale study were to evaluate associations between viral load and fetal preservation, determine the impact of type 2 PRRSv on fetal weights, and investigate changes in ORF5 PRRSv genome in dams and fetuses during a 21-day period following challenge. At gestation day 85 (±1), 114 gilts were experimentally infected with type 2 PRRSv, while 19 gilts served as reference controls. At necropsy, fetuses were categorized according to their preservation status and tissue samples were collected. PRRSv RNA concentrations were measured in gilt serum collected on days 0, 2, 6, and 21 post-infection, as well as in gilt and fetal tissues collected at termination. Fetal mortality was 41±22.8% in PRRS infected litters. Dead fetuses appeared to cluster in some litters but appeared solitary or random in others. Nine percent of surviving piglets were meconium-stained. PRRSv RNA concentration in fetal thymus, fetal serum and endometrium differed significantly across preservation category and was greatest in tissues of meconium-stained fetuses. This, together with the virtual absence of meconium staining in non-infected litters indicates it is an early pathological condition of reproductive PRRS. Viral load in fetal thymus and in fetal serum was positively associated with viral load in endometrium, suggesting the virus exploits dynamic linkages between individual maternal-fetal compartments. Point mutations in ORF5 sequences from gilts and fetuses were randomly located in 20 positions in ORF5, but neither nucleotide nor amino acid substitutions were associated with fetal preservation. PRRSv infection decreased the weights of viable fetuses by approximately 17%. The considerable variation in gilt and fetal outcomes provides tremendous opportunity for more detailed investigations of potential mechanisms and single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with fetal death. 
Certain pathogenetic characteristics of a disease in monkeys in infected with the Marburg virus by an airborne route]	Time course of Marburg virus (strain Popp) accumulation and changes in hematological parameters were studied in aerosol infected M.rhesus monkeys. The lungs were the first organ in which the virus was detected after respiratory infection of monkeys. Four days after inoculation the virus was detected in the liver, spleen, blood, and thymus. Six days after inoculation the virus was present in virtually all organs and secretions. The period of fever was associated with manifest leukopenia in primates. Blood clotting time drastically increased by the moment of animal death.
Genotypic selection of simian immunodeficiency virus in macaque infants infected transplacentally.	To understand viral and host factors that contribute to transplacental transmission of human immunodeficiency virus, we developed an animal model using pregnant female macaques infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Pregnant females were inoculated intravenously during midgestation with either a well-characterized primary isolate of SIV (SIV/DeltaB670) or a combination of SIV/DeltaB670 and the macrophage-tropic molecular clone SIV/17E-Fr. The viral genetic diversity in five infected female macaques and their in utero-infected infants was analyzed. All of the mothers harbored a genetically diverse virus population at parturition, whereas a single genotype from the maternal quasispecies was identified in the infants at birth. Only one of two variants was found in the infants: SIV/17E-Fr (two cases) or a genotype contained within the SIV/DeltaB670 quasispecies (three cases). The macrophage-tropic properties of both transmitted genotypes were suggested by productive replication in primary rhesus macrophage cultures in vitro and the clonal presence in central nervous system tissue of infected monkeys with encephalitis. These observations provide compelling evidence for both genotypic and phenotypic selection in transplacental transmission of SIV and suggest a critical role for macrophages in fetal infection in utero.
How virus induces a rapid or slow onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in a transgenic model.	We developed two distinct transgenic mouse models in which virus induced insulin-dependent (type 1) diabetes mellitus (IDDM). In one of these lines, the unique viral transgene was expressed in the islets of Langerhans and also in the thymus, but in the other line, expression was only in the islets. Insertion and expression of the viral (self) gene, per se, did not lead to IDDM, (incidence < 5%). By contrast, induction of an anti-self (anti-viral) CD8+ CTL response to the same virus later in life caused IDDM (incidence < 90%) in both transgenic lines, although the kinetics and requirements for CD4 help, the affinity and avidity of CD8+ CTL differed in each line. Mice not expressing the viral (self) gene in the thymus developed IDDM 10-14 days after infection. CD4+ T cells played no detectable role, since their depletion failed to alter either the kinetics or incidence of IDDM. By contrast, mice that expressed the viral gene in the thymus required significantly more time to develop IDDM. Their anti-self (viral) CD8+ CTL were of lower affinity and avidity than CD8+ CTL generated by nontransgenic controls. Disease was dependent on T cell help, since deletion of CD4+ cells completely circumvented the IDDM.
Distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus in tissues and white blood cells of cattle during acute infection.	This study is performed to gain knowledge about the quantitative distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in tissues and white blood cells (WBC) at different intervals after acute infection. Ten specific pathogen-free calves were intranasally inoculated with 10(5) 50% tissue culture infective dose of the non-cytopathic BVDV strain 4800. Twelve hours after inoculation tonsil biopsies were taken and WBC were collected daily for virus isolation and titration. Each day one calf was killed and virus isolations and titrations were performed from a range of tissues. The results indicate that BVDV first replicates in nasal mucosa and to high titers in the tonsil. The virus then appeared to spread to the regional lymph nodes and then disseminates throughout the body. The virus titers were highest in tonsil, thymus and ileum and were low in the WBC. Also after in vitro infection virus titers in WBC were very low, whereas, they were high in epithelial cells. Although the WBC might not be as important as other cells for replication of BVDV, they may play a role in the spread of the virus throughout the body.
