Staphylococcal enterotoxin-activated spleen cells passively transfer diabetes in BB/Wor rat.	BB/Wor rats develop spontaneous autoimmune diabetes similar to human insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. A T-cell-mediated pathogenesis for BB/Wor diabetes is indicated because disease is prevented by neonatal or adult thymectomy and treatment of diabetes-prone rats with monoclonal antibodies directed against CD5 or CD8 T-cell surface markers. Disease can be adoptively transferred with injections of concanavalin A-activated spleen cells from either acutely diabetic or RT6.1 T-cell-depleted diabetes-resistant BB/Wor rats. We used microbial superantigens to stimulate spleen cells from RT6.1 T-cell-depleted diabetes-resistant rats and demonstrated that such cells activated with staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEs) can also transfer diabetes. The diabetogenic effector T cells are readily activated by SEA, SEC3, and SEE, whereas SEB- and SEC2-activated cells are far less effective in the adoptive transfer of diabetes. These results demonstrate that microbial superantigens are capable of activating self-reactive and diabetes-inducing T cells in vitro in the BB/Wor rat. Ubiquitous microorganisms may be the environmental trigger for autoimmunity in susceptible individuals.
Refinement of intrathymic injection in mice.	Direct intrathymic injection is a common procedure used in several types of experimental protocols in the mouse. Currently available approaches involve major surgical procedures that expose the thoracic cavity, resulting in an increased risk of poor recovery and postsurgical complications. The authors sought to refine this surgery to reduce animal pain and distress without compromising overall efficiency of the technique. Using a minimally invasive method that does not expose the thoracic cavity, the authors gave accurately placed intrathymic injections, as confirmed by analyses with a reporter dye. They describe this new approach for intrathymic injection in mice that reduces complications associated with lengthy periods of anesthesia and thoracic cavity exposure.
Repeat thymectomy in chronic refractory myasthenia gravis.	Encouraged by recent results with "extended" thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis, we carried out repeat thymectomy in six patients with chronic, refractory disease who did not initially have extended thymectomy. All were completely disabled with longstanding myasthenia. Initial thymectomy (four transsternal, one transcervical, and one substernal) was carried out at a mean of 8.9 years previously (range, 5 to 18). There was no residual thymus observed with CT, but at repeat thymectomy, residual thymic tissue was present in five of six patients. Five patients significantly improved and four returned to full-time work. Mean prednisone dose declined from 51 mg to 18 mg/d, and mean pyridostigmine dose fell from 1,290 mg to 415 mg/d. No patient to date has had a complete remission. These results suggest that repeat thymectomy may benefit some patients with chronic disabling myasthenia gravis, especially when it is uncertain from a review of the operative report whether all thymic tissue was removed at the initial thymectomy.
Transcervical video-assisted thymectomy: preliminary results of a modified surgical approach.	A number of surgical approaches have been reported for thymectomy, including transsternal, transcervical, a combination of complete transsternal and transcervical, and various video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery techniques. A modified video-assisted transcervical approach to thymectomy is here described.
Preliminary observation of the thymus as a privileged site for parathyroid gland allotransplantation in rats.	Twenty Wistar rats were divided into two groups. In the control group parathyroid allografts were transplanted into the kidney subcapsule. In the experimental group parathyroid allografts were transplanted into the thymus. The results showed a statistically significant difference in mean allograft survival times between the two groups.
A technique for complete thymectomy in adult rats.	50 open thymectomies were performed in adult rodents using intubation combined with a fibrin glue able to prevent hemorrhage and pulmonary air leakage. This method had a 100% success rate and lower mortality than the ordinal suction procedure. Although the conventional suction thymectomy has been widely used, the open thymectomy method would permit more complete thymectomies for immunological studies.
Myasthenia gravis: a population based epidemiological study in Cambridgeshire, England.	To perform a comprehensive survey of myasthenia gravis in the county of Cambridgeshire, England, establishing contemporary epidemiological data.
