A case of limb-girdle type myasthenia gravis in whom rheumatoid arthritis appeared immediately after thymectomy]	We report a 48-year-old female who presented limb-girdle type myasthenia gravis with inflammatory lung lesions and rheumatoid arthritis. She demonstrated a rapidly progressive muscle weakness of extremities. Neurological examination revealed facial muscle weakness, and proximal dominant limb muscle atrophy and weakness. Ptosis, ophthalmoplegia, and bulbar palsy were not observed. The edrophonium test and serum anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody were positive. The repetitive nerve stimulation showed 55% waning in the thenar muscles. From these findings, she was diagnosed as having myasthenia gravis. Plain chest X-P and body CT showed tumor-like lesions in the lung. Lung biopsy revealed the infiltration of lymphocytes. These lesions decreased in size after thymectomy and corticosteroid administration. Immediately after thymectomy, she began to have morning stiffness with pain and swelling of the finger and knee joints. RAHA test, which was negative before thymectomy, became highly positive. These findings were consistent with rheumatoid arthritis. In this patient, thymus probably played a role to suppress the development of rheumatoid arthritis.
Manubriotomy versus median sternotomy in thymectomy for myasthenia gravis. Evaluation of the pulmonary status.	In a prospective study, the effect of thymectomy on the pulmonary status of 50 consecutive patients with myasthenia gravis was evaluated over a time range of 4 years in the Chest and Chest surgery departments in the Cairo University Clinics and Thoracic Surgery Department of the Evangelisches Krankenhaus Duisburg-Nord.
A retrospective group study on post-thymectomy myasthenia gravis]	Retrospective group study on post-thymectomy myasthenia gravis (post-Tm MG) was carried out. Five hundred and twenty-seven resected thymoma cases (133 cases with MG and 394 cases without MG) were collected from 9 hospitals. Post-Tmx MG occurred in 18 out of 394 cases -4.6% of thymoma without MG-, and these 18 patients with post-Tmx MG were investigated retrospectively. As to surgical procedures, the mode of operation, either thymectomy or thymo-thymectomy was not thought to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of post-Tmx MG. These 18 patients could be divided into 7 with early onset and 11 with late onset. In the early onset group, post-Tmx MG occurred within 6 months after the operation, and these 7 patients may have had subclinical MG at the time of the initial operation. In the late onset group, post-Tmx MG was noted in 5 patients when recurrence of the tumor was confirmed, the latest being 11 years after operation. The pathogenesis of post-Tmx MG could not be clarified in the other 6 patients (33.3%). For further evaluation of these 6 cases, a prospective studies with large scale are needed.
Myasthenia gravis and diabetes mellitus: a 35-year retrospective study.	The most common treatment of myasthenia gravis is high-dose prednisolone administration and thymectomy. A well-known adverse effect of prednisolone is hyperglycemia, however, to date there is no such detailed report.
Tactical and technical errors in surgical treatment of patients with generalized myasthenia gravis]	From experience in surgical treatment of 1,800 patients with generalized myasthenia as well as from literature data, the authors analyse the main tactical and technical errors in the treatment of this category of patients. A complex approach and a program of improving the results of treatment of patients with myasthenia were elaborated. Compulsory examination of the mediastinum for revealing possible affection of the thymus is indicated in myasthenia. Median sternotomy with ++extra-fascial removal of the whole thymus is considered the optimal approach in thymectomy. Thymomthymectomy with extensive removal of the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum is believed to be the operation of ++choice in tumors of the thymus. Thymus tissue which is not removed during the operation is one of the causes of recurrent myasthenia, while unjustified extension of the volume of the operation in nonneoplastic affection of the thymus is also inadvisable. Preoperative radiotherapy is not recommended. The principles elaborated in the clinic enabled the authors to reduce the frequency of assisted ventilation sevenfold and the incidence of infectious complications, pneumonia among others, to 0.6%.
Does a relationship exist between the number of thoracoscopic thymectomies performed and the learning curve for thoracoscopic resection of thymoma in patients with myasthenia gravis?	This study aimed to analyze surgeons' learning curve for thymoma resection with video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). Two hundred and eleven myasthenia gravis patients had VATS thymic resections, including 25 patients with a thymoma. Three groups of surgeries, according to the order of operations, were analyzed: Group A comprised the first 70 thymectomies, Group B comprised the second 70 thymectomies, and Group C comprised the final 71 thymectomies. We compared the groups on a set of preoperative (age, gender, body mass index, and Osserman stage), operative (number in each group, size, and Masaoka stage), and postoperative (complications and length of stay) variables. A significant difference was observed in the number of thymoma operations (Group A: four patients, Group B: seven patients, and Group C: 14 patients; P: 0.031) and the duration of operation (Group A: 66 min, Group B: 52 min, and Group C: 48 min; P: 0.024). A strong correlation was found between the duration of operation and order of patients (Pearson r: -0.554, P: 0.000). We recommend the start of a program for the resection of thymoma with VATS after surgical staff have performed 70 VATS thymectomy operations.
Precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia after thymoma and myasthenia gravis: report of a case and review of the literature.	The association of thymoma, myasthenia gravis (MG) and pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) is well recognized. The association of T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma and thymoma/MG/PRCA is less distinctive but reported occasionally. We present a 35-year-old female patient who was diagnosed with thymoma and myasthenia gravis. She underwent a thymectomy shortly after the diagnosis. One year later she developed precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Complete remission was achieved after induction chemotherapy but the disease relapsed and she expired two years after the diagnosis of ALL despite allogeneic stem cell transplantation. This association has never before been reported and the pathogenesis needs to be clarified. Aberrant thymus function in myasthenia gravis, immunosuppressive therapy and thymectomy are considered to account for the leukemia development in this patient.
Immune dysregulation after cardiothoracic surgery and incidental thymectomy: maintenance of regulatory T cells despite impaired thymopoiesis.	Thymectomy is performed in infants during cardiothoracic surgery leaving many patients with reduced thympopoiesis. An association between immune disorders and regulatory T cells (Treg) after incidental thymectomy has not been investigated. Questionnaires soliciting symptoms of atopic or autoimmune disease and biomarkers were measured in children and adults with congenital heart disease and either reduced or preserved thymopoiesis. Tregs were examined. Atopic or autoimmune-like symptoms and elevated anti-dsDNA antibodies were common after surgery in individuals with low thymopoiesis. Total Treg number and function were maintained but with fewer naïve Treg. TCR spectratypes were similar to other memory T cells. These data suggest that thymectomy does not reduce total Treg number but homeostasis is affected with reduced naïve Treg. Prevalence of autoimmune or atopic symptoms after surgery is not associated with total number or proportion of Tregs but appears to be due to otherwise unknown factors that may include altered Treg homeostasis.
Thymectomy in myasthenia gravis: proposal for a predictive score of postoperative myasthenic crisis.	Thymectomy plays an important role in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). This study aimed to explore predictors of postoperative myasthenic crisis (POMC) after thymectomy and to define a predictive score of respiratory failure.
Thymectomy by video-assisted thoracoscopy versus open surgical techniques.	This study was conducted to compare operative variables and postoperative outcomes in adult patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing thymectomy through 3 different operative techniques: total median sternotomy, partial median sternotomy, and video-assisted thoracoscopy.
Evaluation of treatment of myasthenia with thymectomy (author's transl)]	The paper describes the effectiveness of treatment of myasthenia with thymectomy in 136 patients operated on, observed in hospital and 107 examined by questionnaire on late results after 10 years. Exclusive of myasthenia with thymoma, cures were obtained in 26.4%, marked improvement in 19.6%, moderate improvement in 21.4%, improved motor strength in 27.1%, and deterioration was observed in 3.8%. The assessment was based mainly on the amount of cholinergic drugs taken. Early mortality rate was 2,4%, and late mortality 1,9%. Relation of postoperative complications/respiratory and crisis of both kinds to mortality and intraoperative pleural injury also surgical approach and anatomic variants of the thymus were discussed. An influence of the number of proliferating centers on prognosis in myasthenia after thymectomy was nor demonstrated. Thymectomy in a generally accepted and most effective method of treatment in myasthenia.
Thymectomy in myasthenia gravis]	Thymectomy is in most cases the treatment of choice in myasthenia gravis (MG). In order to evaluate the Danish results, we investigated the outcome and patient satisfaction following thymectomy in Odense University Hospital from 1980 to 1994. Thirty-three patients were operated. Five (16%) were completely without symptoms or medication and 14 (44%) received less medication and had fewer symptoms than preoperatively. Sex, age, degree of illness, duration of symptoms, histology of the thymus and surgical approach had no significant (p > 0.05) influence on the result. Four patients died 2-29 months after surgery, three because of aggravation of MG and one of causes unrelated to the operation. Of the 29 patients still alive none had serious complications, 11 had minor complications and 23 were satisfied with the operation. Thymectomy is recommended for patients with symptomatic MG, but the effect of surgery should be evaluated in a prospective clinically controlled study.
