Preliminary study on measurement of human fecundity applicability of time to pregnancy with Japanese subjects]	Debate has been continuing whether endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) in the environment affect human reproduction. We are planning to use time to pregnancy (TTP) as a measure of human fecundity to relate EDC exposure in a future research. TTP is expressed as the number of non-contracepting menstrual cycles or months required for a couple to conceive. An extended TTP might be considered to reflect an injury to reproductive processes. Since this parameter has never been measured in Japan. the present preliminary study aimed at establishing a Japanese version of the TTP questionnaire and determining if TTP could be reliably measured in Japan.
DNA fingerprinting in horses using a simple (TG)n probe and its application to population comparisons.	A synthetic polynucleotide (TG)n was hybridized to equine DNA digested with HinfI and hypervariable hybridization patterns were obtained. Mendelian inheritance of these DNA fingerprinting patterns was confirmed by pedigree analysis. Estimates of the probabilities of identical band patterns in unrelated individuals of different breeds (Swedish Trotters, North Swedish Trotters, Thoroughbreds and Arabians) were in the range 1 x 10(-4) - 7 x 10(-6). The variability derived with the (TG)n probe in horses was higher than what we obtained with several other commonly used probes for DNA fingerprinting. Individuals within breeds tended to be more similar to each other with regard to DNA fingerprint pattern than to individuals of other breeds. Moreover, a parsimony analysis made on the basis of the hybridization patterns gave clustering of individuals within breeds. The possibility of using hypervariable probes for the identification of breed-specific characters is discussed.
A cluster of highly polymorphic dinucleotide repeats in intron 17b of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene.	A cluster of highly polymorphic dinucleotide repeats has been detected in intron 17b of the CFTR gene, 200 bp downstream from the preceding exon. At least 24 alleles, with sizes ranging from 7 to 56 units of a TA repeat, have been identified in a panel of 92 unrelated carriers of cystic fibrosis (CF). The common ones are those with 7, 30, and 31 dinucleotide units, with frequencies of .22, .19, and .12, respectively, among the non-CF chromosomes. Mendelian, codominant segregation of the alleles has been demonstrated in family studies, as expected. A less polymorphic dinucleotide (CA repeat) cluster has also been detected in a region 167 bp downstream from the TA repeat. The length of the CA repeat cluster varies from 11 to 17 dinucleotide units, and it appears to have an inverse relationship to that of the TA repeats. These dinucleotide repeats should be useful in genetic linkage studies, in counseling for CF families with unknown mutations, and in tracing the origins of the various mutant CF alleles.
Linkage of the gene for an X-linked mental retardation disorder to a hypervariable (AGAT)n repeat motif within the human hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) locus (Xq26).	We recently reported a new X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) disorder in a four-generation family of Dutch descent. Features included Dandy-Walker malformation, basal ganglia disease, and seizures. Twenty-six family members, including two living affected males and two obligate carriers, were available for study. No evidence of linkage was observed between the disease locus and RFLPs from several X-chromosome regions, including Xp21-p22 (13 markers), proximal Xq (four markers), and Xq28 (three markers). However, a new hypervariable short tandem repeat (STR) within the HPRT gene at Xq26 showed positive linkage to the disease locus, with a maximum lod score of 2.19 at a recombination fraction of 0. A second hypervariable marker in Xq26, the dinucleotide repeat XL90A3 (DXS425), showed a lod score of .84 at a recombination fraction of .11. Both the HPRT and DXS425 markers were typed in 40 CEPH families, and subsequent multipoint linkage analysis showed the following order: Xcen-DXS425-(HPRT,XLMR)-F9-qter. HPRT and these flanking markers are therefore useful for carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis in this family. This study illustrates that hypervariable STRs will be powerful tools for linkage analysis and genetic diagnosis, particularly when relatively small families are involved.
Dinucleotide analogues as inhibitors of thymidine kinase, thymidylate kinase, and ribonucleotide reductase.	P1-(Adenosine-5')-Pn-(thymidine-5') tri-, tetra-, penta-, and hexaphosphates (ApnT) plus the analogues with a methylene group alpha, beta to the thymidine residue (ApncpT) were synthesized by coupling the appropriate two nucleotides, having activated one by morpholine. These were tested as potential dinucleotide inhibitors of thymidine kinase, thymidylate kinase, and ribonucleotide reductase. All three enzymes bind ATP and thymidine or its nucleotides and therefore might be inhibited by dinucleotides containing adenosine and thymidine. Ap5T and Ap6T strongly inhibited all three enzymes (IC50 = 2.4-20 microM). Ap4cpT and Ap5cpT also strongly inhibited the two kinases (IC50 = 4-20 microM) but were much weaker inhibitors of the reductase (IC50 = 130 and 230 microM).
Phosphotriester formation by the haloethylnitrosoureas and repair of these lesions by E. coli BS21 extracts.	The alkylation of phosphates in DNA by therapeutically active haloethylnitrosoureas was studied by reacting N-chloroethyl-N-nitrosourea (CNU) with dTpdT, separating the products by HPLC, and identifying them by co-chromatography with authentic markers. Both hydroxyethyl and chloroethyl phosphotriesters of dTpdT were identified; a similar reaction between CNU and dTR yielded 3-hydroxyethyl and 3-chloroethyl dTR as the major products of ring alkylation. A DNA-like substrate for repair studies was synthesized by reacting 14C-labelled N-(2-chloroethyl)-N'-cyclohexyl-N-nitrosourea (14C-CCNU) with poly dT and annealing the product to poly dA. An extract of E. coli strain BS21 selectively transferred a chloroethyl group from one of the chloroethyl phosphotriester isomers in this substrate to the bacterial protein; chemical instability of the hydroxyethyl phosphotriesters precluded definite conclusions about the repair of this product.
Poly(rA) binding of alpha-anomeric and beta-anomeric tetrathymidylates covalently linked to an intercalating oxazolopyridocarbazolium. Determination of the binding parameters.	We have investigated by means of absorbance measurements at 310 nm the binding of alpha-anomeric or beta-anomeric tetrathymidylates covalently substituted at their 3' end by an intercalating agent (oxazolopyridocarbazolium), to poly(rA). Taking into account the strong autoaggregation of the free ligands, we have derived the binding parameters corresponding to the [alpha] and the [beta] ligands. The affinity of the alpha-anomer for poly(rA) is higher than the affinity of the beta-anomer in accordance with the Tm studies conducted on such a system.
Purification of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase by oligonucleotide affinity chromatography.	Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase is an enzyme which has been found to be associated with thymus cells, bone marrow cells, as well as leukocytes from patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and chronic myelocytic leukemia in blast crisis. We report here the purification of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase by an oligonucleotide affinity (oligo(dT)12-18 cellulose) column. By using a 35 to 70% (NH4)2SO4 cut, Sephacryl S200 column and an oligo(dT) cellulose column, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase has been purified from calf thymus cells to a specific activity of more than 8,500 units/mg of protein. The terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase purified by this method contains no detectable DNA-dependent DNA polymerase or endonuclease activities. Furthermore, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that the enzyme appears to be homogeneous, with two polypeptides corresponding to the two subunits alpha (10,000) and beta (23,000) of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase. These data indicate that oligo(dT)12-18 cellulose can be used as a rapid and selective affinity column for the purification of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase.
A new, convenient method for determining T residues in chemical DNA sequencing by using photoreaction with spermine.	Irradiation of 3'-[32p]-labeled DNA fragments with 254-nm light in the presence of spermine resulted in a T specific cleavage of the DNA chain without piperidine treatment. In the presence of methylamine G + T reactions (G greater than T) were observed under the same irradiation conditions. The T reaction with spermine and the G greater than reaction with methylamine may be combined with the standard Maxam-Gilbert's C + T reaction to provide confirmatory determination of DNA sequences.
Novel prebiotic systems: nucleotide oligomerization in surfactant entrapped water pools.	Oligomerization of 5' -TMP in water pools entrapped by dodecyl-ammonium chloride surfactant aggregates in benzene: hexane in the presence of dicyanodiimide at temperatures ranging from 21 degree -72 degree resulted in the formation of linear and cyclic oligonucleotides containing up to pentamers. Effects of temperature, time and surfactants have been examined. Rate constants for the formation of oligomers have been determined at five different temperatures. These data afforded values of (formula: see text). Prebiotic significance of these results are discussed.
